§ 1. W'iiaiv any appeal shall be granted by any court, or any writ
of error be directed to the same, the clerk of such court shall imme—
diately make up a full and perfect record of all the proceedings in
. . . . .
such cause, and shall, on the application of either of the parties, give
an attested copy of such record, with a taxation of all costs which
have accrued, to the appellant or plaintifff in error, if required ; and
shall endorse on such copy the day or days on which the same may
have been demanded, and the day on which it shall be delivered,
and sign his name as clerk thereto : and if by reason of the delay of
any clerk, any transcript shall not be ﬁled in time, or the record is
so erroneously or incorrectly made up, that the superior or supreme
court cannot proceed thereon ; such clerk shall, in either of the said
cases, upon trial and conviction, be adjudged guilty of a misbe
havior in ofﬁce, and shall forfeit and pay to the person entitled to
such attested copy, the sum of two hundred dollars, to be recovered
by action of debt, in any court having cognizance thereof, and shall
be further liable to an action on the case, for all damages which such
. person may sustain for want of such copy : Provided, always, That
if the judge or judges of the superior or supreme court, should be
of opinion that there appears to be sufﬁcient matter of substance in
the transcript of the record and proceedings, on any appeal or writ
of error, to enable them to proceed thereon, the same shall not be
dismissed for want of form_; anything herein contained to the contrary
notwithstanding.
§ 2. The clerk of any superior court, _upon receiving a transcript
of the record and proceedings in any suit, on which an appeal shall
be made, or writ of error allowed, shall give a receipt to the person
delivering the same, and shall immediately endorse thereon the day
on which it shall be delivered; and if he receive it ﬁfteen days before
the commencement of the term of the next superior court of which
he is clerk, he shall enter it upon the docket of causes for trial, and
deliver to the parties such summonses for their witnesses as they may
require :—But if such transcript be not delivered to such clerk before
ﬁfteen days previous to the next succeeding term, then the clerk shall
enter the cause on the reference docket of such court.‘ And if the
clerk of any superior court shall refuse, neglect, or omit to do any of
the duties which he is hereby required to perform, such clerk shall,
upon trial and conviction, be deemed guilty of a misbehavior in ofﬁce,
and shall forfeit and pay to the appellant or plaintifff in error two
hundred dollars, to be recovered by action of debt, in any court hav
ing cognizance thereof, and be further liable to an action on the case,
for all the damages which such appellant or plaintifff in error may
sustain, by reason of such refusal, neglect, or omission.
§ 2. When in any county or circuit court, judgment upon a verdict
_in a ClVll action shall be entered, execution may, on the motion of
party, at the discretion of the court, and on such conditions
for the security of the adverse party as they may judge proper, be
thirty days from the time of entering judgment, to give time
to the party making such motion, to apply for a writ of error.
 
§ 2. The supreme court may ordain and establish all necessary
rules, respecting the granting, issuing, returning, and hearing of
writs of error. _
If, in the trial of any cause, either the plaintifff or defendant
shall think himself aggrieved by the direction or decision of any
judge, of any of the courts in this state, the party so considering
himself aggrieved, may in person, or by his counsel, tender to the
judge giving such direction or decision, a bill of exceptions to his
opinion, stating the points wherein he is supposed to err ; and the
said judge shall be bound to sign and seal the same ; and the said
bill of exceptions so signed and sealed, shall be made and considered
a part of the record in the cause ; and in case the said judge shall
refuse to sign and seal the said bill of exceptions, if the facts therein
are truly stated, he shall be deemed guilty of a bi h misdemeanor in
ofﬁce: (1) 'and in all cases in which the jud e of any inferior court
may fail or refuse to certify any exception ta en on the trial of any
cause, it shall vbe lawful for the supreme court to receive such evidence
of the exception as may be satisfactory to it, and to try thesaid cause in the same manner as if the said exception had been
certiﬁed by the judge who tried the said cause. (2)
§ 6. No judgment of the circuit court in this state shall be suspended, unless the party applying for the writ of error, shall execute
in the clerk’s ofﬁce a bond, with sufﬁcient security, (“to the adverseparty) to be approved by the clerk, (3) conditioned for prosecuting
the writ of error to eﬁ'ect, and to pay and satisfy the judgment which
shall be rendered in the said cause by the supreme court. °And the
said clerk shall send an attested copy of the bond to the said supreme court, with the transcri t of the record: “and in case of dismission
or discontinuance of the cause, the supreme court shall render
judgment against the principal and security in the borid.
§ 7. If any clerk of the circuit 'or county court, upon issuing any
writ of error, shall take security which shall be insufﬁcient at the
time of taking the same, he shall be liable to an action of trespass
on the case, in favor of the party aggrieved : Provided, That nothing
in this act contained shall be so construed as to subject any clerk to
a recovery in the action aforesaid, for taking as security for any writ
of error, any person who was generally reputed sufficient for the sum
for which he became bound as security, at the time he was taken as
securit '.
§ 2. Whenever a writ of error shall be ﬁled in the clerk’s ofﬁceds
of any of the circuit courts of this state, in any cause or matter ﬁnally
determined in the said courts, and bond and security be given accord
ing to law, it shall operate as a supersedeas. '
§ 9. Whenever a writ of error shall have issued from the clerk's
ofﬁce of any of the circuit courts of this state, it shall be the duty of
the clerk of the court from which it shall have issued, to give the
defendant in error, or to his attorney, on application, a certiﬁcate
stating that a writ of error has issued.
§ 10. Either party may appeal, from any ﬁnal judgment or decree
of any circuit court, during the term at which the judgment or decree
was rendered, to the supreme court, upon entering into bond, with
security to be approved of by the court, in double the amount of the
debt or damages, in such his, or their suit, for prosecuting the same
with effect, or performing the judgment, sentence, or decree which
the supreme court shall pass or make thereon, in case the appellant
shall have the cause decided against him; (1) and the appellant shall
ﬁle a transcript of the record with the clerk of the supreme court,
on or before the third day of the ﬁrst term of said supreme court
after the ap eal was granted, and on failure thereof the appeal shall
be dismissed) with costs and damages, upon the appellee’s producing
a certiﬁcate from the clerk of the circuit court of the amount of the
judgment or decree, and that bond had been executed according to
the order of the court granting the appeal : Provided, That for good
cause shown, the appeal may be reinstated any time during the term,
upon payment of costs.
§ 11. Writs of error shall lie from the court of errors and appeals,
to the respective circuit courts throughout the state; and it shall be
. . . . . .
the duty of the judges, or any one of them, on application, either in
vacation or term time, to grant such writ of error,‘ and to take good
and sufﬁcient security from the party demandino' the same,—that the
said party shall prosecute his writ to eﬂ'ect, and answer all damages
and costs, if he fails to make his plea good.
§ 12. When any judgment, decision, or decree of the circuit
court shall be reversed or afﬁrmed in the court of errors and appeals,
it shall be the duty of said court,to pass such judgment, decision, or
decree as the circuit court should have assed, except where the
damages to be assessed, or matter to be dbcreed, are uncertain; in
which case the said court shall remand the same for ﬁnal hearing.
§ 2. It shall be the duty of the clerks of the circuit courts in
this state, respectively, on the application of the party against whom
any ﬁnal judgment shall have been rendered, or on the application
of the attorney of the said party, to issue a writ of error returnable
to the ﬁrst day of the next term of the supreme court ; and also, to
issue a citation which shall be served upon the opposite party or his
attorney, by the pr0per otﬁcer of the court, at least ten days previ
ous to the commencement of the next term of the su reme court ;
which citation shall be returned to the ofﬁce of the cler from which
it issued, whenever served, whether in vacation or term time, and
together with a transcript of the record in the cause, he deliv
ered to the party applying for the writ of error, or his, her, or their
attorney, to be by him, her, or them, returned to the ﬁrst day of the
next term of the supreme court; and in case the transcript of the
record in the cause below, and the assignment of errors“ should not
delivered to the clerk of the supreme court, on or before the third
day of the term to which the writ of error shall be returnable, it shall
be lawful for the supreme court, at that term, or at any term there
after,_on motion of the defendant in error or his attorney, and on
roducingla copy of the citation served upon the defendant, certiﬁed d
y the s eriﬁ‘, or on producing a certiﬁcate from the clerk of the “
court from which the writ of error issued,showing the time at which
it issued, and amount for which judgment was rendered, and at what
term of the court below,__to aﬁir'm the judgment of the circuit court
with costs of suit; llunless the plaintifff in error, or some other per-[1
son, shall make afﬁdavit, that the transcript of the record could not $
be procured from the clerk of the court below : but the cause ma g
be reinstated on the docket, at any time during the term to Wthllretn
the writ shall be made returnable, upon showing sufﬁcient cause to
the said supreme court.
§ 14. When a final 'udgment shall be rendered by the supreme l
court in any cause, it s all be the duty of the clerk of the supreme 5
court, to certify the judgment of the said court to the clerk of the W
court from which the cause came ; and it shall be the duty of the i
clerk of the court below, immediately on the receipt of the said cer-Elj'
tiﬁcate, to issue execution, if judgment be rendered for the plaintiﬁ'
in the original cause, for all the money, together with all the costs of
the suit in the court below, which by the jud ment of the supreme
court may be due from the defendant to the plaintifff, or to issue such
an execution as may be directed by the supreme court ; but if judg
ment be rendered for.the defendant in the original cause, then against
the plaintiﬁ'in the original cause, for all the said costs of suit, or such
other execution as may be directed by the supreme court, returnable
to the next term of the court below.
§ 15. It shall be the duty of the supreme court, to decide all the
causes which may be returned to the said court at the return term
thereof, unless for good cause the same shall be continued; and in f
all cases decided in the supreme court, the successful party shall be {
entitled to the same fee which is now allowed in chancery causes in
the circuit court,
§ 16. It shall not hereafter be lawful for any circuit court to refer n
to the supreme court any question of law, except such as may be
novel and difﬁcult, and arise in a criminal case. l
§ 17. A writ of error may issue, to reverse any ﬁnaljudgment in 2
the circuit court, at any time within three years after the rendition (
of the judgment, and not afterward. “
§ 18. It shall be lawful for any judge of the supreme court, who
shall not have given an opinion in the case below, to sit in the trial
of the said cause in the supreme court. £
§ 19. In case the supreme court of errors and appeals shall afﬁrm
entirely any judgment or decree brought before them, the plaintifff in s
error, if he be the defendant below, shall pay to the defendant in 3
error, ten per centum damages on the amount due, “with lawful in- c
terest from the time of rendering the original judgment or decreeﬂb'l
besides the costs of the original suit and writ of error. 5
§ 20. Whenever the judgment of a circuit court shall, on appeal 1
or writ of error to the supreme court, be afﬁrmed, ten per cent. 3
damages shall be allowed, and not more: Provided, That no dama- p
'- _ ~ - n
ges shall be allowed in any cause in the supreme court, unless the l
judgment of the court below shall have been suspended. 1
rmed or
§ 2. 
In causes wherein the judgments have been a :
reversed by the supreme court, and in which the costs incurred in
that court have not been collected, the clerk Iof the said supreme
court may issue the proper writs of execution, in the names of the
parties, against the parties respectively subjected to the
payment of such costs, returnable to the succeeding term thereof.
§ 22. \Vhen judgment of an inferior court in any cause shall be
afﬁrmed or reversed by the supreme court, the said supreme court
may give judgment and award execution against the unsuccessful
party for the costs of such cause, incurred in the said supreme court:
and it shall be the duty of the sheriff or other ofﬁcer to whom such
writ of execution shall be directed, to levy or execute, and make
return thereof to the said supreme court, on or before the ﬁrst day
of the return term therein named, and render to the said clerk the
monies collected by him, according to the exigency of such writ.
§ 23. If such sheriff or ofﬁcer fall so to return such writ of execu
tion, or to pay the monies by him made as aforesaid, the clerk of
the supreme court may, in the name of the successful party in the
cause, upon giving to such sheriﬂ' or officer, or to such sheriff and his
securities, ten days’ previous notice, and upon proof of such notice,
move for (at the next term of the circuit court of the county in
which such sheriff or ofﬁcer resides,) and obtain judgment and exe
cution against such sheriﬁ‘ or ofﬁcer, or such sheriff and his securities
so notiﬁed, for the amount of the writ of execution not returned as
aforesaid, or the deﬁcit of the monies made and not rendered.
§ 24. If any sheriff or coroner in this state shall fail or refuse to
return any execution, issued from the supreme court as aforesaid, and
placed in his hands, to the return term of said court named in said
execution, it shall be lawful for the party, at whose instance said
execution issued from the supreme court, to obtain judgment against
said sheriff or coroner for the amount of money named in said exe
cution, and costs of the motion: Provided, always, That the certi
ﬁcate of the postmaster, living at the seat of justice of the county of
which he is sheriﬂ' or coroner, or the nearest one thereto, that said
sheriff or coroner has placed in his ofﬁce, sealed up in his presence,
and directed to the clerk of the supreme court, any execution, and
the amount of money collected thereon, which has been placed in his
hands, shall be sufficient evidence on the part of said sheriff or cor
oner, to prevent judgment from being obtained against him and his
securities as aforesaid.
§ 25. The clerk of the supreme court is hereby authorized, when
ever any sheriff or coroner shall return on an execution, directed to
them or either of them,that the defendant or defendants in said exe
cution, or either of them, have no property in his county out of
which he can make the amount of costs due on said execution, forth
with to issue execution against the plaintifff or plaintifffs in said exe
cution, for all costs due on said execution, created by the plaintifff or
plaintifffs in obtaining his judgment and execution; and no costs,
created by any defendant or defendants on the part of him or them,
shall be taxed or collected in said execution: Provided, That an
execution which may be returned “ no property found,” shall have
issued to the county from which the case was brought into said court,
before an execution under this act shall issue against the plaintifff or
plaintifffs.
§ 26. In all cases in which the judgment, sentence, or decree of
any inferior court, shall be affirmed in the supreme court, it shall be
the duty of said supreme court, to render judgment, against the se
_ . . . . .
cunty or securities in the bond executed on obtaining the appeal or
writ of error, in the same manner and for the same sum for which
judgment shall be rendered against the plaintifff or plaintifff's, com—plainant or complainants, in said supreme court ; and it shall be the
duty of the clerk of said supreme court, to certify the judgment there
of to the court from which the cause came, against both the principa]
and the surety or sureties ; and it shall be the duty of the clerk
of the court, whose judgment or decree shall have been aﬁinned,°°
immediately on the reception of the certiﬁcate, to issue execution,
returnable to the next term of the said,_court, against the person or
persons against whom judgment shall have been rendered in the su
preme court, and for the amount of said judgment, in pursuance of
the certiﬁcate from the clerk of the supreme court.
§ 27. The same power and authority, that is now vested in the
. . . .
supreme court, to render Judgment ﬁnal against the security in bonds,
for the prosecution of appeals or writs of error to said court, is here. . . .
by vested in the circuit courts of this state, upon all bonds for the
prosecution of appeals 0r writs of error from the county courts, to
the said circuit courts.
§ 28. The same per centage shall be assessed upon appeals and
writs of error taken from the county to the circuit court, as is now
assessed in the supreme court, upon appeals 0r writs of error taken
from the several county or circuit courts to the supreme court.“
§ 29. “Whenever any party or parties litigant may desire to take
an appeal, or sue out a writ of error to any cause, to which a nonresident or non-residents may be a party, a notice to the attorneys ofy
record, in the county or circuit court, (as the case may be,) or to the
agent of such non-resident or non-residents, shall be deemed and taken
as suﬁicient notice to the supreme court, to hear and determine
such cause.
§ 30. Whenever any suitor may be desirous of taking an appeal,
or suing out a writ of error, in any cause to which a non-resident on non-residents may be a party, and who have no known agentwithin the county, where such cause shall have been tried ; or where
the attorney of record shall be beyond the limits of the state of Alabama, or shall be dead; then, and in that case, the party desiring
such appeal, or writ of error, may, upon making aﬁidavit of such
facts, (which aﬁidavit shall be ﬁled in the clerk’s ofﬁce, of the court
from which such appeal or writ of error shall be taken, and a copy
forwarded to the supreme court, with a transcript of the record,) be
entitled to the beneﬁt of an appeal or writ of error, (as the case may
be,) without notice : Provided, however, That the supreme court may
order such notice to be given, by public advertisement or otherwise,?°l:l‘
as it shall deem meet, and such case may, at such court’s discretion, d
be continued for that purpose.
§ 31. It shall be lawful for the clerk of the supreme court, in the
name of the successful party, to commence and prosecute any motion
against any sheriﬁ' or coroner, or his security or securities, in the
circuit court of the county for which he is such sheriﬁ‘ or coroner, I
for failing to return any execution from the supreme court, or to ﬁ
make the money on any execution from said supreme court, where
there is sufﬁcient property, or failing to return any execution from £
said court, or making a false return thereon, or failing to pay over "
money made on any execution, on demand made, under the same
rules and regulations as now govern motions against such oﬁicers,
and their securities, for said respective causes, where executions is
sue from the circuit courts. ,
§ 32. On the trial of any such motion, where the execution has W
not been returned by the sheriff or coroner, and received by the
clerk of the supreme court, the certiﬁcate of said clerk, under the seal
of the court, stating when the execution issued, its amount, who
against, who in favor of, when returnable, and that the same was
put in the post-biﬁce, stating the time when directed to said sheritl'
or coroner, and that the postage on said package was paid, shall be
sufﬁcient evidence of the contents of said executions, and that the
same has been received by said olﬁcer, and sufﬁcient to dispense
with the production of saicliexecution, or any other part of the re
cord of said supreme court, on the trial of said motion ; unless said
ofﬁcer shall deny, by afﬁdavit sworn to, that said execution ever
came to his hands, or that it was returned to the proper ofﬁce by due
course of mail, or that the money could not be made on the execu
tion, as the case may be.
§ 33. Where execution has been returned, a certiﬁed copy thereof
and of the endorsements thereon, under the hand and seal of ofﬁce of
. , . . . .
said clerk, shall be sufﬁcient evidence on any such motion, of the is
suance and return of any such execution, and of the contents of said
execution, and return thereon.
§ 34. On the trial of any motion under this act, it shall not be ne
plelssary to produce the judgment of the supreme court, or any copy
81'60 .
§ 2. The sheriffs and coroners, collecting executions from the
supreme court, shall be entitled to a fee of one dollar, out of the per—
Ilsou against whom the same issued, for his services in collecting the
Provided, That the plaintifff in execution shall, in no case,
be liable for the costs of the motion when unsuccessful but in that
event they shall be paid by the clerk
§ 36. The room on the basement ﬂoor of the state capitol, adjOin‘
the treasurer’s otﬁce, is hereby appropriated as a consuuation
room, for the use of the judges of the su reme court.
.
§ 537. In'all causes, now pending, or_w_ ich shall hereafter be pend
1ng,1n the supreme court, and for deciding which the judges of the
said court shall be disqualiﬁed by interest or any other cause, they shall
certify the same to the governor, who shall, thereupon, direct acom
mission to any three judges of the circuit court to hear and determine
the said cause or causes: and it shall be the duty of the said circuit
judges to hear and determine such cause, or causes, and their judgment
or decree shall be entered of record by the clerk of the supreme court,
in the same manner as other judgments and decrees of the supreme
court are entered.
§ 2. In any cause, now pending, or which shall hereafter be pend
of mg in said court, in which two of the judges of the said court shall
be disqualiﬁed as aforesaid, it shall be the duty of the other judge to
hear and determine the said cause pending: Provided, always, That
if the said judge shall be of opinion, that the judgment in said cause
should be reversed, he shall certify the same to the governor, who
shall associate with him two of the judges of the circuit court for the
decision of said cause ; and it shall be the duty of the said judges of
the circuit court, and such judge of the supreme court, to rehear the
said cause, and render a jud ment, or decree thereon, and such fur
ther proceedings shall be had thereon as are provided for by the ﬁrst
section of this act.
§ 39. All writs of error, wherein there shall be any variance from
the original record, either in the name or the number of the parties,
7
form of the action, or other defect, may and shall be amended,
and made agreeable to such record, by the respective courts, where
such writ or writs of error shall be made returnable, under such
rules and regulations as the supreme court may prescribe.
CHAPTER
JUDICIAL PROCEEDINGS AT COMMON LAW.
This title comprehends the following subdivisions, arranged alpha
betically, viz :
1. Abatement of Suits. 12. Motions against Ofﬁcers of
2. Appeals from Justices of the Court.
Peace. 13. Penal Bonds.
3. Costs. 14. Penalties.
4. Detinue. 15. Petition and Summons.
5. Docketing and Order of I 16. Pkading.
Causes. 17. Process.
6. Ejectment. 18. Real and Possessory Ac
7. Errors and Amendments. tions.
8. Joint Obligors and Partners. 19. Scire Facias and Notice.
9. Judgment and Inquiry of 20. Set-off and Tender.
Damages. 21. Suits against the State.
10. Jurisdiction. 22. Trial and Evidence.
11. Limitation of Actions. 23. Venue.
1. ABATEMENT or Surrs
§ 2. Yhen any suit shall be depending in any court in this state,,‘,
an either of the parties shall die before ﬁnal judgment, the execu. . . . . .
tor or administrator of such deceased, who was plaintifff, petitioner,
or defendant, shall have full power, (in case the cause of action by
law survive} to prosecute or defend such action until ﬁnal judgment :
and the de endant is hereby obliged to answer thereto accordingly.
And the court before whom such cause may be depending, is hereby
empowered and directed to hear and determine the same, and to
render judgment for or a ainst such executor or administrator, as the
case may require : and i such executor or administrator, having been
duly served with a scire jacias,’ or citation, from the ofﬁce of the
clerk of the court, where such suit is depending, ﬁfteen days before
the meeting thereof, shall neglect or refuse to become a party to thesuit, the court may render judgment against the estate of the deceas
ed party, in the same manner as if the executor or administrator had
voluntarily made himself a party to the suit; and the executor or
administrator, who shall become a party as aforesaid, shall, upon
motion to the court where the suit is depending, be entitled to a
continuation of the same until the next term, or time of holding the
court.
§ 2. The action of trover shall survive for and against executors
an administrators.
§ 3. Where any person or persons shall institute any suit in the
. .
name of any other person or persons, for his or their own use and
beneﬁt, the death of such person or persons, in whose name or
names the suit or suits are instituted, shall not abate such suit : but
the same shall progress and be tried in the same manner as though
such suit was actually brought in the name of the person or persons,
for whose use the same was instituted.
§ 4. \Vhere there are two or more plaintifffs or defendants to any
suit or suits, in any court in this state, and one or more of them die ;
if the cause of such action shall survive to the surviving plaintifff or
plaintifffs, or against the surviving defendant or defendants, the writ
or action shall not be thereby abated; but such death being sug
gested upon the record, the action shall proceed at the Suit of the
surviving plaintifff or plaintifffs, against the surviving defendant or
defendants.
§ 5. Where any person, who may sue out a writ of ad quad dam
1mm, may die before the termination of the proceedings on such writ,
his or her executor or administrator may, on motion, revive the
proceedings, and prosecute the same to a ﬁnal termination;
§ 6. All actions of trespass quare clausum fregit, and actions of
trespass to recover damages for injuries to personal property, may,
if the plaintifff or plaintifffs dtc,»be revived by his, her, or their repre
sentatives, in the same manner as actions on contracts.
§ 2. No suit instituted by a fame sole shall abate by her inter
marriage: Provided, The person marrying such fame sale will make
‘
himself a party to such suit, which may be done by motion to the
court. .
§ 8. It may be lawful, when a fame sole defendant shall have in
termarried, for the plaintifff to sue out a scire facias to her husband,
and make him a party; and such suit shall not abate by reason of
the marriage.

§ 2. Any person, aggrieved by the judgment of any justice of the
peace, may, within ﬁve days thereafter, appeal to the next circuitor
county“ court sitting for his county, ﬁrst giving to such justice, bond,
with good security, in double the amount of such judgment, condi
to prosecute such appeal with effect ; and in case he be cast
therein, to pay and satisfy the condemnation of the court.(1) And
the justice, before whom the cause was originally tried, shall issue
subpoenas for all witnesses that the parties in such appeals may re
quire. And in case the appellate court afﬁrms the judgment of the
justice below, execution with interest and costs shall issue as in other
cases.
§ 10. In all cases, where the sum claimed, does not exceed twen
ty dollars, the trial shall be by the court, without the intervention
of a jury; and in cases where the sum claimed exceeds twenty dol
lars, the court shall try such appeal dc nova, as any other cause is
tried, at the ﬁrst term, on an issuc(2) to be made up at or before the
 
trial; and it shall be the duty of the justice of the peace trying such :3
cause, to send up to the clerk, a statement of the case, with all the Ju
papers and the bond thereunto belonging, before the sitting. of said ‘6
court. an
§ 2. Whenever any judgment, rendered by any justice, shall be $
removed into any court by appeal, certiorari, or otherwise, and the arjudgment of the justice be aﬂirmed,judgment shall be entered against
the security as well as the principal, and execution may issue against
both, or either of them. pl
§ 12. In cases of appeals from judgments of justices of the peace,‘j§i°,{
the court, before whom such appeal shall be brought, shall proceed i
to try the same according to the justice and equity of the case, with-"i
out regarding any defect in the warrant, capias, summons, or other i
. . . .
proceedings of the justice of the peace, before whom the same was :i
(1 ) t
§ 13. In all appeals taken, by virtue of this act, from a justice of
the peace, when it shall be made to appear to the court, that the D
appeal was taken merely for delay, the court shall award ﬁfteen per g
cent. damages. (2) f
§ 14. Any cause, removed by writ of ccrliorari, shall stand for :
trial at the ﬁrst term of the court to which the same is returnable. C
§ 15. The clerk of the court, after issuing any writ of ccrtt'orari,is authorized and required, at the request of either of the parties, to "
issue subpoenas for witnesses, returnable to the same term to which l
the writ of certiorari is returnable. “
§ 16. \Vhenever the defendant, in any cause that shall have been i
decided by a justice of the peace, shall appeal from the judgment of 1
such justice, and the appellate court shall render judgment in favor $
of the plaintifff, for a less sum than that recovered before such jus- u
tice; such appellate court may enter judgment for the costs of such {
appeal, either against the plaintifff or the defendant, according to the
justice of the case: ‘but where the plaintifff or successful party shall
appeal, and shall not recover more than was adjudged by the justiceof the peace, in that case he shall pay all the costs.
§ 17. No appeal shall be tried, unless it appear to the court that
the appellee, is agent, or attorney, shall have had ﬁve days’ notice
of such appeal, previous to the term at which the same shall be tried,
or unless the return of non est inventus be made by the constable on
. . . . _
the notice issued by the justice; and for want of such notice or return,
the cause shall stand for trial at the ensuing term.
§ 18. On all appeals taken, the justice shall issue a notige to the
appellee of the same, which shall be served and returned by the
constable, and sent up with the papers.
§ 19. In cases of appeals and writs of certiorari from judgments
of justices of the peace, taken to the circuit or county courts, and in
cases of appeal and writ of error, from the county court to the circuit
court, when the judgment of the appellate court is ﬁnal, such appellate
court shall give judgment and award execution, as well for the
costs of the inferior as of the appellate court.
st

§ 20. In all cases, in civil actions, the party in whose favor judg
ment shall be given, or in case of nonsuit, dismission, or discontinu
ance, the defendant, shall be entitled to full costs except when it is
_ 1
or may be otherwrse directed by law.
§ 21. In all suits brought to recover damages for slander or tres
pass, assault and battery, the plaintifff shall not recover more costs
than damages, if the damages do not exceed ﬁve dollars ; unless the
judge before whom the suit was tried, shall certify that more dam
ages ought to have been awarded by the jury. (l)
§22. On all suits instituted in any court of record in this state, in
the name of one or more persons for the use of another, and judgment
thereon rendered against the plaintifff or plaintifffs for costs, it shall be
lawful to enter up judgment and issue execution against the person
or persons for whose use such suit or suits may be instituted.
§ 23. The clerks of the several circuit and county courts, and the
justices of the peace in the several counties in this state, are hereby
authorized, whenever any sheriff, coroner, or constable shall return
on an execution, directed to them or either of them, that the defend
ant in said execution has no property in his county out of which be
. ,. .
make the amount of costs due on said execution, forthwrth to
issue execution ainst the laintiﬁ‘ in said execution for all costs
8g p 7
due on said execution, created by the plaintifff in obtaining his judg
ment and execution; and no costs created by any defendant on the
part of the defendant, shall be taxed or collected in said execution. (2)
§ 24. Hereafter, no county tax on jud ents rendered in favor of
the Bank of the State of Alabama, wit out the intervention of a
jury either by the circuit or county court of Tuskaloosa county
, . . . . 7
shall be taxed 1n the bill of costs in said causes.
§ 25. In all actions to recover damages for torts, the plaintifff shall
recover no more costs than damages, where such damages do not
exceed ﬁve dollars, unless the presiding judge shall certify that
greater damages should in justice have been awarded
Saccm'rr FOR Cosrs.
§ 2. Every action at common law, or suit in chancery, com
menced in the name of any person residin out of this state, shall be
dismissed, if security be not given with t e clerk of the court from
the process shall issue, or wherein it shall be depending,
within sixty days after notice shall, at any time during such non
residence, have been given to the plaintifff or his attorney, by some
person interested, that such is required for the payment of the costs
which may be awarded to the defendant, and also of the fees that
 
are or may become due to the ofﬁcers of the court; (1) and after-I
security shall be so given, and the fees not paid at the time the same ,
become due, it shall be lawful for the court in which the cause was "
commenced, to enter up judgment on motion against such security,
and award execution accordingly.
§ 27. \Vhen any process shall issue from any of the courts of this J
state, by the direction of any attorney, for any person or persons A
residing out of this state, against any person or persons residingWithin the same, the person or persons suing for such process, or l
prosecuting such suit, at the return of such process, or at any time Z
thereafter when required, shall, upon motion, be ruled to give sum-:11
cient security for all costs, accruing in such action or suit; and if .
such attorney shall fail to give such security, being thereto required,“-‘;‘i
the suit shall be dismissed, and execution may issue against such [
attorney for all such costs. °
§ 28. If any person resident in this state, shall institute any suit, "
whether at common law or in chancery, in any of the courts of this i
state, and shall after the institution thereof remove out of this state,;'f'r"
such person shall be bound to give security for the costs of such suit,m
in the same manner and under the same restrictions pointed out for 5
non-resident plaintifffs.
§ 2. Any clerk may require security for costs of non-residents, 1
before he issues any writ. a
§ 30. On all bonds hereafter made by non-resident plaintifffs, for i
the prosecution of suits in the county or circuit courts, and to secure c
the costs of such suits, it shall be lawful for such courts, at the time I
of rendering ﬁnal judgment in the cause, to render judgment against 5
the security of such non-residents for the costs adjudge
. . . . . . . . I
Nora—The plaintifff, on suing out a bail-writ, is required to give security for u
costs. 
§ 31. In any action of dotinue, if the plaintifff, his agent or attorney
shall make aﬁidavit that the property sued for belongs to the plaintifff,
and shall give bond with sufﬁcient security, to be approved of by
the clerk of the court issuing the writ, conditioned that if the plaintifff
shall fail in the suit, he shall pay the defendant all costs and damages
he may sustain by the wrongful suing out of the writ, it shall be the
duty of the clerk of the court issuing the writ by endorsement on
the same, to require the sheriff or other ofﬁcer serving it, to take
the property sued for into his possession, unless the defendant shall
give bond with suﬁicient security in double the amount of the value
of the property to be taken, payable to the plaintifff, and conditioned
that the defendant, if cast in the suit, shall, within thirty days after
its determination, deliver to the plaintifff the property recovered by
such suit.
§ 32. If the defendant in such suit shall neglect for ﬁve days, to
give the bond required by the ﬁrst section of this act, the property
taken shall be delivered to the plaintiﬂ', on his giving bond and suﬁi- d
S
cient security, in double the amount of the value of the property,
payable to the defendant, conditioned to deliver the property to the
defendant within ﬁve days after demand made, in case he shall fail
to recover the same in his said suit ; and if the plaintifff shall neglect
to give such bond within ﬁve days after the time allowed the defend
ant, it shall be the duty of the oﬂicer serving the writ to return the
property taken, to the defendant.
§ 33. When the defendant shall have iven such bond, and a
recovery shall be had against him, and he sfiall neglect to deliver to
the plaintifff the property recovered, as provided for by the ﬁrst see
tion of this act, it shall be the duty of the sheriff, at the plaintifff’s
request, to make a demand of the property recovered, of the defend
ant or his security ; and if it shall not be delivered within ﬁve days
after such demand, the sheriff shall return the bond taken in the suit,
to the oilice of the clerk of the court where the recovery shall be
had, as “forfeited ;” and such bond, so returned, shall have the
force and effect of a judgment, and execution thereon shall issue
against principal and security for the alternative judgment.
§ 34. If the plaintifff shall fail in such action, and shall neglect to
deliver the property taken, after demand made, as provided for by
the second section of this act, he, and his securities, shall be liable
an action on such bond, and in case of recovery thereon, damages,
not exceeding ﬁfty per centum on the value of the property, shall be
given for the detention thereof.
5. DOCKETING AND ORDER or Causes.
§ 35. Before any circuit or county court, the clerks of said courts
shall enter in a particular docket, all such causes, (and those only)
in which an issue is to be tried,or inquiry of damages to be made, or
a special verdict, or case agreed,or demurrer, or other matter of law
is to be argued, in the same order as they stand in the course of pro
ceeding, setting, as near as may be, an equal number of causes to
each day, and no cause shall be taken up for trial or hearing, at a
day previous to that at which it may be set; and the clerk shall
issue subpoenas for witnesses to attend on the days on which the
causes stand for trial ; and it shall be the duty ofthe clerk to keep a
regular subpoena docket, and to issue subpamas before every term of
the court, for all the witnesses, in every cause, that either party
may at any time have directed to be summoned.
§ 36. It shall be the duty of the clerks of the circuit courts in this
state to keep a trial docket, and to assign not less than ﬁfteen causes
ready for trial each day of the term, commencing on the ﬁrst day,
and continuing until the docket be gone through. And it shall not
be lawful to take up any cause out of the order in which it shall
stand upon the trial docket, unless by consent of parties.
§ 37. All jury causes shall be ﬁrst tried ; all motions in arrest of
judgment shall be argued within the three last days of the term, in
which the issue shall be tried; the defendant’s attorney ﬁrst serving
the plaintifff’s attorney with a copy of the reasons in arrest ofjudg
ment, the day immediately following that on which such motion
shall be made : arguments on writs of error, special verdicts, eases
agreed, petitions for 1e acies, and distributions of intestate estates,
shall be heard during t 10 four last days of the term.
§ 2. N0 proceedings in any court shall be discontinued by the
death of any-0f the judges or justices thereof, or by their non-attend
ance at any term ; but in such cases, all actions and suits, matters
and things depending therein, shall stand continued,of course, to th
next succeeding term. (1)
§ 39. The presiding judge of the circuit court of Mobile shall, at
every term of said court, try causes in the following order, to wit :
appeals from justices of the peace ; appeals from the county court ,
actions of assumpsit; actions of debt, covenant, and detinue, during
the ﬁrst week of the term. The state docket shall be taken up on
Monday of the second week, and disposed of, when the residue of
the actions of assumpsit, debt, covenant, and detinue, if anythere he,
shall be tried, dismissed, or continued, when land cases (so called)
and all other cases, remaining on the common law docket, shall be
called in their order and disposed of. Motions shall then be heard
and determined, and the term shall close with the trial of all chancery
business: Provided, That, by agreement and consent of the judge,
any case may be tried out of its order.
§ 2. The several clerks of the circuit courts in this state, shall
ma e and keep a separate docket of all cases, civil or criminal, in
which witnesses may be summoned, and set the same, as nearly as
practicable, for trial, on particular days of the term, commencing 01
the second day thereof; and it shall be the duty of said clerks to no. . . . .
tify each Witness, in the writ of subptena, of the day on which the
cause is set for trial ; and no witness shall be entitled to compensation for attendance, previous to the time appointed for trial, nor shall
it be lawful to try any cause thus set, previous to the day of such
appointment: Provided, This section shall not apply, where the
term of any court is limited to one week.
Nora—Motions against Banks, for refusing to pay their notes, 616. have pre
cedence of all other causes
§ 41. In all actions of ejectment, tried in any of the courts of this
state, if it shall be made to appear to the satisfaction of the jury trying
such cause, that the defendant has a crop then planted, or growing upon the premises in question, they shall, if they ﬁnd the defend-5
ant guilty of the trespass and ejectment complained of, assess, at the
same time, such rent as shall be reasonable and just for the plaintit
to receive, for the use of said premises during such time as shall be,
in their opinion, sufﬁcient to enable the defendant to gather and se
cure his crop from off said premises: and no writ of Itabere facias
possessionem shall issue upon any such verdict, until the expiration
of the time determined by the jury, if the defendant in such action
shall enter into bond, at any time during the term of the court before
which such cause is tried, with sufﬁcient security, to be approved of
by said court, in the penalty of double the amount of the rent assess
ed by the jury, payable to the plaintifff, conditioned for the payment
of the rent so assessed at the expiration of the time ﬁxed by the jury,
for the defendant to hold possession of the said premises.
§ 42. All bonds, taken in virtue of this act, shall be ﬁled in the
clerk’s ofﬁce of the proper court, and shall have the force and effect
of a judgment ; and if the same be not discharged according to the
condition thereof, execution shall issue thereon against the principal
and his security, for the sum therein mentioned, as upon other judg
ments in said court.
§ 43. The ﬁctitious proceedings in the action of ejectment are
hereby abolished; and hereafter, the mode of trying the right and title to lands, tenements, or hereditaments, shall be by action of tree.
pass, in which the plaintifff shall endorse on his writ and copy-writ,
that the action is brought as well to try titles as to recover dam
ages ; and it shall not be necessary to ﬁle the original note, bond,
or paper sued on, with the clerk, but a copy thereof shall be sufﬁ
cient.
§ 2. The laws now in force in relation to the action of eject
ment, except as far as relates to ﬁctitious proceedings therein,
shall be applied to the action of trespass, to try titles as afore
said.
§ 45. If the plaintifff, in the aforesaid action of trespass, recover,
he shall be entitled to an execution for possession, as well as for
costs and damages.( 1)
§ 2. In all cases where the action of trespass to try titles would,
un er the presentlaws, be the proper action, the plaintifff, at his elec
tion, shall have either said action of trespass to try title, or the action
of ejectment ; and when the action of ejectment shall be brought, it
shall be lawful, and shall be the duty of the jury trying the same, to
assess the damages in favor of the real plaintifff, as in actions of tres
pass to try titles.
§ 47. In any suit which shall be commenced in any of the courts
of this state for the possession of lands or tenements, it shall be law
ful for the defendant, at any time before the trial of such suit, to sug
gest to the court, that he and those persons, whose estate he has in the
lands or tenements sued for, have had adverse possession of the same
for three years next before the commencement of such suit, and that
he and those persons, whose estate he has, have made permanent
and valuable improvements on the lands untenanted, sued for, dur
ing the time he or they have had adverse possession of the same.
And the jury trying the suit, if they shall ﬁnd for the plaintifff, shall
at the same time inquire, if the spggestion so made be true. or false ;
if false, they shall return a verdict as in ordinary cases for the dam
ages sustained ; but, if true, they shall assess the value of the improve
ments at the time of the trial, which have been made by the defend
ant, or by those whose estate he has: and shall assess the value of
the land or tenements, which they shall return a verdict for, and
shall also assess the value of the use and occupation of the same
without considering the increased value thereof, by reason of such
improvements as shall have been made by the said defendant,
or by those whose. estate he has. And if the value of the use and
occupation, as assessed, shall exceed the value of the improvements,
as assessed, the court shall render a judgment against the defendant
for the excess.
§ 48. In any suit where the value of the improvements, so assess
ed, shall exceed the value of the use and occupation, no writ of pos
session shall be issued for the term of one year after the rendition of
. . . . .
judgment, unless the plaintifff or his legal representatives shall pay
Q
to the clerk of the court, for the defendant, the excess of the assess~
ed value of the improvements, over the value of the use and occu
pation ; and if the said plaintifff, or his legal representatives, shall
neglect,for the term of one year, to pay the excess in value of the
said improvements, and the said defendant, or his legal representatives,
shall, within three calendar months after the expiration of the said
year, pay to the clerk of the court, for the plaintifff, the value of the
lands or tenements as assessed by the jury, then the plaintifff shall
be forever barred of his writ of possession, and from ever having or
maintaining any action whatever against the defendant, his heirs or
assigns, for the lands or tenements recovered by such suit; and if the
defendant or his legal representatives, shall not, within the said
three months, avail him or themselves of the beneﬁts of this act, the
plaintifff, or his legal representatives, may sue out a writ of posses
sion as in ordinary cases.
§ 49. In any suit for the recovery of lands or tenements, which
shall be commenced against any tenant for years, at will or by suf
ferance, it shall be lawful for his or her landlord to enter him or her
self a defendant to such suit, and such landlord shall be solely enti
tled to all the beneﬁts and provisions of this act.
7. Eaaons AND AMENDMENTS.
§ 50. No summons, writ, declaration, return, process, judgment,
or other proceedings, in any of the courts of this state, shall be abat
ed, arrested, quashed, or reversed, for any defect or want of form
but the said courts, respectively, shall proceed and give judgment,
according as the right of the cause and matter in law shall appea
unto them, without regarding any imperfections, defects, or want o
form, in such writ, declaration, or other pleading, return, process
judgment, or course of proceeding whatsoever, except those only i
cases of demurrer, which the party demurring shall specially se
down and express, together with his demurrer, as the cause there
of ;‘ and the said courts, respectively, shall and may, by virtue O
this act, from time to time, amend all and every such imperfections,defects, and want of form, (other than those which the party demurring
shall express as aforesaid,) or any mitake in the Christian
name or surname of either party, sum of money, quantity of merchan
dise, day, month, or year, in the declaration or pleading, the name,
sum, or quantity, or time, being right in any part of the record o
proceedings; and may, at any time, permit either of the parties t
amend' any defect in the process or pleadings, upon such conditions
as the said courts, respectively, shall, in their discretion, and by thei
rules, preseribe.’
§ 2. Judgment on confession: shall amount to a release of err0r3_(1)
§ 52. After issue joined, in an ejectment on the title only, no ex
ception to form or substance shall be taken to the declaration in any
on court,
§ 2. No cause shall be reversed, arrested, or otherwise set
waside, after verdict or judgment, for any matter on the face of the
pleadings not previously objected to: Provided, The declaration
contains a substantial cause of action, and a material issue be tried
thereon.
§ 2. No cause shall be reversed by the supreme court or any
circuit court, for any miscalculation of interest, or other cleri
cal misprision in entering j'udgment, so as to give costs to the
plaintiﬁ' in error; but in all such cases, the supreme court may
order the judgment to be amended at the costs of the plaintiﬂ' in
error.
§ 55. The circuit and county courts, respectively, shall and
may, at any time within three years after ﬁnal judgment, upon the
application of either party, amend any clerical error, or mispriswn,
calculation of interest, or other mistake of a clerk, where
there is sullicient matter apparent upon the record to amend by;
and no cause shall be reversed for any such error or defect, by
the. supreme court, unless the court of original jurisdiction, where
the same was determined, shall, upon application, refuse the amend
ment.

§ 56. Any judge of the circuit courts, on an inspection of the re
cord or the transcript thereof, of any cause in which ﬁnal judgment
shall have been rendered, may, if he shall be of opinion that any
material mistake or error has been committed by a ministerial
after the rendition of judgment, grant a writ of error coram
vobis, returnable to the next term of the circuit court in which such
judgment shall have been rendered, and may direct the said writ
to operate as a superscdcas, on the party, applying for the same,
entering into bond and security in the clerk’s office, to be approved
b the judge grantinv the same conditioned for prosecuting the
y. . '5 e ’ . . I:
said writ of error to etfect, and pay and satisfy the judgment of the
court.‘ _
§ 57. It shall be the duty of the court to which the writ of error
comm vobis shall be returned, to try the same at the return term,
and in all cases of afﬁrmance, judgment shall be rendered against the
. . . . . .
plaintifff in error, and his, her, or their security, for the amount of
judgment which shall have been suspended, together with ﬁve per
cent. damages, interest and costs.
§ 2. No writ of error comm vobis shall be granted, unless the
dc cndant shall pay the amount of principal and interest actually due,
obtaining the same; unless otherwise ordered by the judge
grantin the said writ : Provided, That no security shall he required
of the gefemlant under this act.
8. JOINT Osucons AND PARTNERS.
§ 59. Mereas, joint obligors and other persons, against whom a
joint cause of action may exist, frequently reside in different districts,
or counties, so that the same individual process cannot reach both or
all of such persons, whereby parties having just demands are greatly
delayed in prosecuting the same: for remedy whereof, Be it enact-gy
ell, That where any such joint cause of action shall exist, it shall belr
lawful for the plaintifff in such suit or action, to sue out two or more
writs, directed to the sheriﬂ's or other proper ofﬁcers of the different
counties where such defendants or parties jointly chargeable may be
found, which process such sheriﬁ' or other ofﬁcer shall execute ac
cordingly, and return to the court from which the same issued, as in
other cases; and such writs, so issued and retumed, shall be ﬁled
together, and shall have the same force and effect, and the same pro
ceedings and recovery may be thereupon had, as if one single writ
had issued against all the defendants jointly ; but it shall be the duty
of the clerk or attorney issuing such process, to endorse thereon, that
both or all of the said writs are for one and the same cause of action,‘
or otherwise the same shall abate on the plea of the defendant.
§ 60. And whereas, it is a rule of common law, thatin case ofthe
death of a joint obligor, the debt can never survive against his heirs,
executors, or administrators, which rule is frequently injurious and
oppressive to the surviving obligors : to remedy which, Be it enatted, That, in case of the death of one or more joint obligor or obligors, the joint debt or contract shall survive against the heirs, executors, and administrators of the deceased obligor or obligors, as well
as against the survivor or survivors : and when all the obligors shall
die, the debt or contract shall survive ainst the heirs, executors,
and administrators of all the said joint 0 ligors.
§ 61. Every joint bond, covenant, hill, promissory note, or judgment
of any court of record of any state or territory of the United
States, shall be deemed and construed to have the same effect in law,
. . . . .
as a jomt and several bond, covenant, bill, promissory note, or judgment;
and it shall be lawful to sue out process and proceed to judgment
against any one or more of the obligors, covenanters, or drawers of any such joint bond, covenant, bill, or promissory note, or
against any one or more of the defendants to any such joint judgment. §
§ 2. Whenever a writ shall issue against any two or more joint,
. . .
or jomt and several obligors, covenanters, or drawers of any such
bond covenant bill or romissor note or a ainst two or more of
, 7 i P y a
. . - . i
the defendants to any such joint judgment, it s all be lawful for the
plaintifff or his attorney, at any time after the return of said writ, or
an alias writ, to discontinue such action against any one or more of
the defendants, on whom such writ, or alias writ, shall not have
been executed, and proceed to judgment against any one or more of
said defendants, on whom said writ shall have been executed, or
proceed to issue an alias or pluries writ, at his election.(1)
§ 2. Whenever any cause of action may exist against two or
. . .
more partners, of any denomination whatever, it shall be lawful to
prosecute an action against any one or more of them; and when a
. . .
writ shall be issued against all the partners of any ﬁrm, service Of
i ' _
the same on any one of them, shall be deemed equivalent to a ser
vice on all ; and the plaintifff may ﬁle his declaration and proceed to
judgment as if the said writ had been served on each defendant; and
the judgment shall be equally valid and effectual against all the de
fendants.
§ 64. Where any suit shall be instituted against two or more per
sons as partners in any ﬁrm, if one or more persons, not partners in
said ﬁrm, shall have been sued as such, the court, before whom such
suit is pending, shall discontinue said suit against such person or
. . .
persons, as shall appear not to be partners in said firm, and proceed
to judgment and execution against all or any of the defendants in
such action who shall appear to be partners.
§ 65. Where suit is brought on any joint, or joint and several
bond or note, and all the obligors or ayers thereto shall not be served
with process, itshall be lawful for allor any one of the obligors served
with process, to give notice in writing to the other obligors or payers
not so served, ten days before the trial term of said suit, that he or
they have been sued on such bond or note, and that he or they will,
at the time when said suit is tried, move the court where the same is
depending, for judgment against him or them. ‘And it shall be the
duty of said court, upon sufﬁcient proof, to give judgment according
to the right and justice of the case, and direct execution to issue,
for the obligee or payee, in such bond or note, or for the plain
tiff or plaintifffs" in the motion, as may best comport with the justice
of the case, and the rights of the parties, and with such endorsements
. . .
as may be necessary to effect the object ; and the executions, in both
cases, shall be put into the hands of the sheriff or other ofﬁcer at the
same time.
§ 66. In all cases of motions being made as aforesaid, the defend
ant therein may plead any plea, which may be necessary to try the
cause according to the right and justice thereof; and a jury shall be
empanneled to try the issue joined between the parties, as in other
cases.
§ 67. Where any person or persons shall have a cause of action
against any co-partnership, any of the membersof which may have
died, such person or persons shall be permitted to sue and recover
of the representatives of the deceased partner or partners, without
. . . .
ﬁrst havmg prosecuted the survnvmg partners to insolvency : Pro
viderl, The plaintifff shall, before instituting such suit, make affidavit
in writing, before the clerk of the proper court, or court itself, to be
ﬁled with the papers, that the survivor is insolvent or unable to pay
the amount of the debt, or is beyond the. jurisdiction of the court: '
Provided, further, That when any such representative is sued sepa
rately, which may be done without such afﬁdavit, no execution shall
issue against such representative until an execution is bona ﬁllt run
and returned nulla borm as to the survivors.
§ 68. Where plaintifff shall bring suit as a ﬁrm or co-partnership,
it shall not be necessary for proof to be made, that the individuals,
named as plaintifffs, constitute the members of the ﬁrm, unless the
defendant puts the same in issue, by plea in abatement.
9. JUDGMENT AND INQUIRY or DAMAGES.
§ 69. In all judgments on demurrer, confession, non sum in forma
tus, or by default, in actions of debt for a sum certain, the courts are
authorized to issue executions for the sums of such jedgments, with
such interest, by way of damages, as may be legally due, and costs
ofsuit; and in all interlocutory judgments, a writ ofinquiry shall be
awarded, and such writ of inquiry may be executed at the next suc-jﬁ
ceeding term,“ and the damages assessed by a jury attending the
court in which they were awarded.
§ 70. In all actions founded on any writing ascertaining the plaintitl"s demand, or sum sued for, if judgment by default, ni/n'l dicit, 0r
by non sum informatus, or on demurrer, be entered therein, the court
where the same action shall be pending, shall and may lawfully enter
judgment for the debt or demand, and interest thereon, to be calculated by the clerk of such court, up to the time of rendering judgment,
without the intervention of a jury to inquire of the damages,
and award execution thereon, as in other cases. (1)
§ 71. Whenever the demurrer to the declaration, in an action of
covenant, trespass, or trespass on the case, shall be overruled, and
an inquiry of damages directed by the court, it shall be lawful for
the inquiry thereof to be had at the same term at which such de-in
murrer shall be overruled : Provided, That nothing, herein contain-ed, shall be so construed as to authorize the said inquiry of damages
to be made at the term to which the writ in said actions may be
made returnable.
§ 72. In all actions of covenant, case, trespass, and assumpsit,
when the declaration is ﬁled in due time, and the defendant has failed
to plead, a judgment by default may be taken, either in vacation, or
at the next succeeding term, and a writ of inquiry executed at said
term.
§ 2. It shall be lawful for the plaintifff or plaintifffs in any suit at
common law, in any court of record in this state, to dismiss his, her,g
or their suit, at any time in vacation, on application to the clerk ot'
the court in which said suit may be pending, upon giving the defendant or defendants, his, her, or their attorney, six days’ notice of such
application : Provided, That the notice aforesaid shall not be required
in suits, in which the writ has not been executed.
§ 74. The clerks of said courts shall, before dismissing said suit,
take a confession of judgment for the costs which may have accrued
on the same up to the time of said dismissal ; and he shall have full
power and authority to issue execution therefore, in the same manner,
and under the same regulations, as executions are now issued upon
judgments rendered by the circuit and county courts of this state $
Provided, That the costs shall be paid before dismissal, in all cases
. . . . . . . . .in which the plaintifff or plaintifffs do not resrde in this state.
CHAPTER
[For thejurisdiclions of the courts, respectively, See “Judiciary.”]
§ 2. . If any suit shall be commenced in any, court for a less sum
. .
than such court can legally take cognizance of, or if any person shall
demand a greater sum than is due, on purpose to evade this act, in
. . . . _
either case the plaintlﬂ'shall be nonsuited, and pay costs: Provzdsd,
always, That if the plaintitl', or any other person for him, will make
an afﬁdavit, (to be ﬁled in the clerk’s oﬁice,) that the sum, for which
the suit shall be brought, is really due, but that for want of proof, or
that the time limited for the recovery of any article, bars a recovery,
in that case,such plaintifff shall have a verdict and judgment for what
appears to be legally proved, anything to the contrary notwithstand
ing ; And provided, also, That nothing, herein contained, shall be
construed to extend to suits on bonds, penal bills, or any other action
of debt grounded on a penalty, where the balance, due on such bond or
penal bill, or other action of debt, is not of less value than the sums
limited for bringing suits in the said court. (1)
Whereas, it has become a common practice, on notes and bills of
exchange made payable to bearer, and on endorsements in banks, to
sue thereon in the United States court in Mobile in the name of the
pretended or ﬁctitious bearer for the purpose of giving jurisdiction to
said court contrary to the constitution of the United States, and all
law and justice : for remedy whereof,
§ 2. Be it enacted, as'C- That all bonds, bills, or notes, which
shall be made payable to any person or persons, or bearer, or to any
corporation or bearer, shall have the effect of creating an obligation,
or liability, in favor of the corporation or person, or persons only, to
any such bond or note may be expressly made payable, and
no one but such corporation or such person or persons, or their en
dorsee or personal representative, shall have a right to maintain, in
his own name, an action upon any such bond, bill, or note.
§ 77. When any citizen of this state shall institute a suit in any
of the federal courts holdcn in this state, against any other citizen,,in
the name of a ﬁctitious person, or in the name of any person not
having the legal interest in the cause of action on which said suit
be instituted, the person so sued shall have a right to sue for
and recover, from the person so procuring such suit to be instituted,
the amount which shall be recovered from the person so sued, to
gether with all damages and costs which may be incurred thereon.
And the attorney, who may have instituted the suit in the federal
court, shall be required to give testimony, and to disclose all facts,
which may have come to his knowledge, in relation to the ownership
of the cause of action instituted in the federal court, and likewise as
to the residence of the plaintifff.

§ 78. All_actions of trespass are clausurn fregif, all actions of
trespass, detinue, trover, and rep evin, for taking away of goods and
chattels; all actions of debt founded upon any lending, or contract,
without specialty, or for arrearages of rent due on a parole demise,
and all actions of account, and upon the case, except actions for
slander, and except also such actions as concern the trade of mer
chandise, between merchant and merchant, their factors or agents,
shall be commenced within six years next after the cause of such
actions shall have accrued, and not after.
§ 79. All actions of trespass for assault, menace, battery, wound
ing, and imprisonment, or any of them, shall be commenced and sued
within two years next after the cause of such actions shall have ac
crued, and not after.
§ 2. Every action upon the case, for words, shall be commenced l
an sued within one year next after the words spoken, and not after : 3
Provided, always, That if any person or persons, who is, are, or “
shall be entitled to any of the actions hereinbefore speciﬁed, is, are, i
or shall be, at the time of any such cause of action accruing, within $
the age of twenty-one years, feme covert, or insane, then such person i
or persons may institute such action, so that the same be instituted '
Within such time as is before limited, after his, her, or their coming
to or being of full age, discovcrt, or of sane memory.
§ 81. Every action of debt, or covenant, for rent or arrearages of Q
“rent, founded upon lease under seal ; and every action of debt upon l
any single or penal bill, for the payment of money only; or upon :
any obligation, with condition for the payment of money only ; or "
upon any award, under the hands and seals of arbitrators, for the m
payment of money only, shall be commenced and sued within six
teen years after the cause of such action shall have accrued, and not f
after; but if any payment shall have been made on any such lease, 1
specialty, or award, within or after the said period of sixteen years,m
then an action instituted on such lease, specialty, or award, within
sixteen years after such payment, shall be good and effectual in law,
and not after : Provided, always, That the time, during which the $
person who is or shall be entitled to any of the actions spciﬁed in this
section, shall have been within the age of twenty-one years, fame
covert, or insane, shall not be taken or computed as part of the said
limited period of sixteen years. § 82. Judgment in any court of record in this state, may be re- é
vivcd by scire facias, or an action of debt may be brought thereon, 3
_. . .
W ithln twenty years next after the date of such Judgment, and not m
after : Provided, That the time during which the person, who is or
shall be entitled to the beneﬁt of such judgment, shall have been
under the age of twenty-one years, fame covert, or insane, shall not
be taken or computed as part of the said limited period of twenty
ears.
§ 83. No person, who now bath, or hereafter may have, any right g
or title of entry unto any lands, tenements, or hereditaments, shall l
make an entry therein, but within twenty years next after such right
or title shall have accrued, and such person shall be barred from any P
entry afterward: (lLProm'ded, always, That the time during which
the person, who hat or shall have such right or title of entry, shall
have been under the age of twenty-one years, fame covert, or insane,
shall not be taken or computed as part of the same limited period of
twenty years.
§ 84. If any person or persons, against whom there is or shall be é
any cause of action, as is speciﬁed in the preceding sections of this
act, is, or are, or shall be, out of this state at the time of the cause t
of such action accruing, or at any time during which a suit might ﬁ
be sustained on such cause of action, then the person or persons,
who is or shall be entitled to such action, shall be at liberty to bring
the same against such person or persons, after his, her, or their
return into this state ; and the time of such person’s absence shall not
be accounted or taken as a part of the time limited by this act. (I)
§ 85. Every real, possessory, ancestral, mixed, or other action,
for any lands, tenements, or hereditaments, shall .be brought and in
stituted within thirty years next after- the right or title thereto or
cause of such action accrued, and not after : Provided, always, That
the time, during which the person, who hath, or shall have such right
. .
or title, or cause of action, shall have been under the age of twenty
one years, ferric covert, or insane, shall not be taken or computed
part of the said limited period : Provided, also, That nothing, in
this act contained, shall be so construed, as in any wise to affect or
interfere with the primary disposal of the vacant lands of the United
States within this state.
§ 86. If in any of the said actions, speciﬁed in any of the preceding
sections of this act, judgment be given for, the plaintifff, and the same
be reversed by writ of error; or if a verdict pass for the plaintifff,
. . . .
and upon matter alleged in arrest of judgment, the judgment be given
against the plaintifff, then the said plaintifff, his or her heirs, execu
tors, or administrators, as the case shall require, may commence a
new action within one year after such judgment reversed or given
against the plaintifff, and not after.
§ 87. N0 person or persons, body politic or corporate, who now
have, or shall, or may hereafter have any estate, right, title, claim,
or demand, by virtue of any title, which has not been conﬁrmed by
either of the boards of commissioners of the United States, appointed
for settling and adjusting land claims in the Mississippi territory, and
not recognized or conﬁrmed by any act of congress, in or to_ any
lands, tenements, or hereditaments in this state, shall after the expi
ration of three years from and after the passage of this act, have,
prosecute, or maintain any action or suit at law for the recovery
thereof, in any court in this state: Provided, That this act shall not
extend to claims in that part of this state formerly a art of West
Florida, which have been registered and not acted on y congress :
Provided, also, That if any person or persons, who is, are, or shall be
entitled to sue or prosecute such suit or action, or who hath, have, or
shall have such right or title, shall be within the age of twenty-one
years, frme covert, or insane, within the time limited by this act,
then such person or persons, his, her, or their heirs or assigns, shall
and may, at any time within three years next after his, her, or their
coming to full age, of sound mind, or discnvcrt, bring, sue, and pros
ecute such suit or action, and at no time thereafter.
§ 2. No action shall be brought to recover any money due _by
n account, after the expiration of three years from the accruing
o the cause of action: Provided, That nothing in this act shall ap
ply to the trade of merchandise between merchant and merchant,
their factors or agents.
§ 89. If any person or persons that is or shall be entitled to any
of the personal actions enumerated and mentioned in this act, and in
the act for the limitation of actions, and for avoiding vexatious law
suits,‘ be, or shall be, at the time of any such cause of action, given
or accrued, fallen or come, within the age of twenty-one years, from
covert or non compo: mentis,--then such person or persons shall be
at liberty to bring the same actions, so as they take the same with
in such times as are before limited, after their coming to or being of
full age, discovert, or of sane memory, as other persons, having no
such impediments, should have done.
§ 90- No action, suit, or motion, shall be maintained against the
security or securities of any sheriff, constable, or other public ofﬁcer
of this state, for any misfeasance, malfeasance, or other cause what_ V
soever, hereafter committed, unless the same be commenced or proseouted
within six years next after the commission of the act com
plained of; or if the claim be in favor of an infant or person "Miii
compos mentis, or other person disabled by law from bringing suit,
then within three years after such disability to sue shall cease to
exist : Provided, That this limitation shall not be extended or ap
plied to any action, suit, or motion, which may be maintained by
law, against such ofﬁcer, his executors, administrators or heirs ;
And provided, further, That nothing in this act shall be so construed
as to have aretrospective operation upon suits now pending
§ 91. For any misfeasance, malfeasance, or other cause of action,
heretofore committed by any sheriff, constable, or other ofﬁcer, noz
suit, action, or motion shall be maintained against the security or
securities of any such sheriff, constable or other ofﬁcer, unless the
same be commenced and prosecuted within three years after the
passage of this act ; subject always to the proviso in the ﬁrst sec
tion of this act.
§ 2. Where any lands have been sold, or may hereafter be sold,
un er the decree of the court of chancery, to satisfy any mortgage,
deed of trust, or other encumbrance, all rights or equities of redemp-f
tion in any person not a party to the decree of sale, who shall claim
under the mortgagor or grantor in the deed of trust or encumbrance,
shall be forever barred and precluded, unless the suit for a redemption be commenced within ﬁve years from the execution of such de
cree of sale : Ppoui'ded, That no suit shall be barred by the opera
tion of this act,'within ﬁve years from its passage.
§ 93. All actions for recovery of lands, tenements or liereditaments
in this state-fshall be brought within ten years after the accrual of
the cause of action, and not after: Provided, That five years be al-l
. . . .
lowed under both sections of this act, for infants, fmes covert, insane
persons, and lunatics, after the termination of their disabilities
to bring suits.
12. MOTIONS AGAINST OFFICERS or Coua'r.
§ 94. Whenever a motion shall be made against any oﬁicer of any
of the courts of this state, for not paying over any money received by
him in his official capacity, and the receipt of the same shall not appear
by the record or any paper ﬁled in the clerk’s ofﬁce, it shall be
. - _ the
duty of the court to cause an issue to be made up, and tried by
the jury attending the court ; and in case it shall be found by the
jury that the same has been received by the ofﬁcer against whom the
motion shall be made, judgment shall be rendered by the court
against the said ofﬁcer, for the principal, interest, and such damages
as are now in such cases directed by law.

§ 2. In all actions which shall be brought upon any penal bond
or ends, for the payment of money, wherein the laintiﬂ' shall re
cover, judgment shall be entered for no more than t e principal and
interest due on said bond.
§ 96. In all actions, in any court of record, upon any bond, or on
any penal sum, for non-performance of any covenants or agreements
contained in any indenture, deed, or writing, the plaintifff or plaintifffs
may assign as many breaches as he or they may think ﬁt; and the jury,
upon trial of such action or actions, shall assess damages for such of
the breaches as the plaintifff shall prove; and the like judgment shall
be entered on such verdict, as heretofore has been usually done in
such actions.
§ 97. If judgment shall be given for the plaintifff on confession for
an indeﬁnite sum, or on demurrer, or by nil dirit, in any such action
the plaintifff may assign as many breaches as he shall think ﬁt; upon
which a jury shall be empanneled at the same term of the court in
which judgment shall be rendered as aforesaid, to inquire of the truth
of those breaches, and to assess the damages the plaintifff shall have
sustained thereby.
§ 98. In' case the defendant, after such judgment, and before exe
cution, shall pay into court, to the use of the plaintifff, the dam
ages assessed, and costs, a stay of execution shall be entered upon the
record; or if, by reason of an execution, the plaintifff shall be fully
paid all the damages and costs, and the charges of the execution, the
defendant’s body, lands, or goods shall be t ereupon forthwith dis
Charged from the execution, which shall likewise be entered upon
record; but in each case the judgment shall, notwithstanding, re
main as a further security, to answer to the plaintifff such damages
as he may sustain by an further breach of covenant contained in
the same indenture, dee , or writing; upon which the plaintifff may
have a scire facias, upon the said judgment, against the defendant,
his heirs, executors, or administrators, suggesting other breaches of
the said covenants or agreements, and to summon him or them, re.
spectively, to show cause why execution should not be awarded upon
the said judgment; upon which there shall be. the like proceeding
as was in the action upon the said bond, for assessing of damages
upon trial of issue joined upon such breaches, or inquiring thereof,
upon empanneling a jury in manner aforesaid; and upon payment or
satisfaction as aforesaid, of such future damages, costs and charges,
as aforesaid, all further proceedings on the judgment are again to be
stayed, and so totirs quoties; and the defendant’s body, land, or
goods, shall be discharged out of execution as aforesaid.

§ 99. In all cases, where a penalty may be incurred, or a sum of
money forfeited by any person or persons, by reason of the violation
of, or non-compliance with, the provisions of any statute of this State,
when by such statute no mode is pointed out for the recovery of suchpenalty, or the use, to which the same shall be applied, is not by
such statute declared, the said penalty, sum or sums forfeited, shall
be recoverable by action of debt in the circuit or county court of the
county wherein such penalty may have been incurred, or sum for
feited, or before a justice of the peace of any such county ; which
action shall be brought and prosecuted, jomtly, in the name of any
such county as aforesaid, and of the person or persons suing for the
same; and when recovered, shall inure, the one moiety to any such
county, for the use of the paupers thereof, and the other moiety to
the person or persons suing for and recovering the same.
§ 100. In all qui tam actions, or suits in the nature thereof, the
. . . . . .
party prevailing in the suit, shall be entitled to recover costs as i
other actions at law.
§ 101. In all actions which may be brought by virtue of any Stﬂt
ute which now is, or may hereafter be in force, for the recovery
of any penalty or penalties, or of a part thereof; and when the
whole, or a part thereof, shall inure to any county in which any
such action shall be brought, it shall not be lawful, nor shall any
defendant or defendants to any such action or actions, be permitted
to except to the competency of any citizen as a juror, on account o
his residence in the county in which such action or actions may be
brought.
§ 2. When any person or persons, holding a bond or note fo
the difect payment of money, may desire to bring suit thereon, he
or they may ,do so, by ﬁling such bond or note, with the clerk ofany
court having jurisdiction thereof, with a petition purporting as fol
lows; “ State of Alabama, Circuit or County, ss. A. B., plaintiﬁ'
states that he holds a bond or note, (as the case may be) on the dc
‘fendant, C. D., in substance as followeth: (here insert a copy of the
bond or note ;) yet the said debt remains unpaid, wherefore he prays
judgment for his debt, and damages for the detention of the same,
together with his costs, &c. A. B.”
§ 103. If such bond or note is held by an assignee or endorsee,
then, after reciting the bond or note, “on which is the following as
si mentor endorsement, (recite the assignment or endorsement,)
wirereby the plaintifff hath become the proprietor thereof, of which
the defendant hath had due notice.”
§ 104. A copy of the petition, with a summons annexed thereto,
requiring the defendant to appear and answer the demand on thes
ﬁrst day of the next succeeding term, shall be issued by the clerk,°
and served by the sheriff, by delivering a copy of the petition and
summons to the defendant, and each of the defendants, if there be
more than one.
§ 105. The sheriff in his return shall note the day on which i
shall have been executed; but if the process be not executed ﬁve
days before the return day thereof, a continuance shall be entered,f:f
unless a trial shall be had by consent of parties.
§ 2. The petition shall stand in the place of a declaration, and
the defendant may appear and plead thereto, as in an action of debt,£
and issue he joined accordingly; which issue shall stand over to, and
be tried at, the next term 0 the court, in which such suit may be
32"I
instituted, unless a trial is had at the ﬁrst term by consent of the
arttes.
§ 107. Nothing in this act shall be so construed as to take away
any remedy or defense heretofore allowed by law, nor shall this not
be otherwise construed, than as a remedial statute.
§ 108. The clerk shall be allowed for issuing a summons and
copying the petition,_ftfty cents.
16. Pnnanmc.
§ 109. The defendant in any cause, may plead as many several
matters as he may judge necessary to his defense: Provided, He
be not admitted to plead and demur to the whole ; And provided,
also, That no plea of non estfactum shall be admitted to he pleaded,
but when accompanied with an athdavit of its truth. (1)
§ 110. No plea in abatement shall be received in any court,unless
accompanied with an afﬁdavit of the truth of such plea, or the truth
of it otherwise appear. §
§ 2. The following rules and regulations shall be observed in
the said courts, until otherwise directed by law, viz: That every
plaintifff or his attorney when employed in any suit, in any of the
circuit or county courts‘ of this state, shall ﬁle his declaration in the
clerk’s oﬂice, any time within the ﬁrst three days of the term, to
which the writ is made returnable ; and on failure thereof, such suit
shall be dismissed by the court, at the cost of the plaintifff ; Provi
(led, nevertheless, That the judge on good cause shown, may grant a
lonver time ; which cost being paid by the plaintifff to the clerk of
said court, he or they, paying such cost in consequence of a declara
not being ﬁled in due time, as aforesaid, may warrant such
attorney for all such cost paid by him as aforesaid, and the receipt
of the clerk shall be evidence in support of such claim; and the
justice, before whom such warrant shall be tried, may give judg
ment and issue execution thereon ; and such attorney shall be fur
thei' liable to the action of such plaintifff, for such damages as he or
they may have sustained, in consequence of such declaration not
having been ﬁled as aforesaid. The defendant shall appear and
plead or dcmur, within the ﬁrst three days afth the time allowed
for ﬁling declaration ; otherwise, the plaintifff may have judgment by
default, which in actions of debt shall be ﬁnal, unless where dam
ages are suggested on the roll; and in that case,and in all others not
herein specially provided for, when the recovery shall be in damages,
a writ of inquiry shall be executed at the next succeeding term :’
Provided, That where the nature of the actions requires special
pleading, the time for pleading may be enlarged :_where the defendant pleads specially, the plaintifff shall reply or demur, within
three days after the time allowed for ﬁling the declaration, or a non
pros may be entered by the defendant ; and if the plaintifff replies,::
and in his replication tenders an issue, the defendant shall join issue
or demur in three days, otherwise the plaintifff may have judgment ;y
and where the defendant rejoins to the plaintifff’s replication, he shall
ﬁle his rejoinder within three days, or judgment shall go against him,
unless the term for pleading shall be enlarged as aforesaid, and the
same time shall be given, and rules observed, through the whole
course of the proceedings : Provided, That, in every case, the
pleadings shall be made up during the term to which the process is
returned, (1) unless the time be extended by the consent of parties,
their attorneys, or by direction of the court. Where a special verdict shall be found, a case agreed, a demurrer ﬁled, or a bill of ex—
ceptions to the evidence tendered, the court may, for a good cause
shown, continue the same until the next term for argument. When
a plea in abatement shall be pleaded, and upon argument, the same
shall be adjudged insufﬁcient, the plaintifff shall recover against the
defendant, full costs to the time of overruling such plea, including
the costs of court.‘ ‘
§ 112. No declaration, plea, or replication, which sets forth or
states any obligatidn .or instrument of writing under which such
party claims beneﬁt, and which is alleged to be lost, and not in the
power of the party to produce said instrument or obligation in court,
shall be received in any of the courts of this state, unless such party
make oath oti’the truth of such statement in his declaration, plea, or
replicationias the case may be.
§ 2. It shall not be required of the plaintifff, in an suit by attac
ment, founded upon a cause of action not due, to ﬁ e his pleadings before the ﬁrst term of the court, after such cause of action falls
due, and the same may be dated as of the term when ﬁled.
§ 114. In all suits, commenced in any county court of this state
or in any circuit court, which, by law, is held one week only, ‘he
plaintifff shall ﬁle a declaration within the two ﬁrst days of the term
to which the writ shall be returned “ executed ;” and the defendant
shall plead or demur within the two succeeding days of the term ;§
and if any other or further pleadings be necessary, the same shall be
ﬁled, severally and successively, within two days, each, until an
issue of fact or law be made up : Provided, That, in every case, the
pleadings shall be made up during the term, unless further time be
given for making up the same, or any part thereof, by the court, or
by the parties or their attorneys ; and if, in any suit commenced as
aforesaid, the plaintifff shall fail to ﬁle a declaration, or any other
pleading which may be necessary on his part, within the time herein
prescribed, such suit shall be dismissed or the plaintifff non prosed
as the case may be, on motion of the defendant or his attorney; anti
if the defendant in any such suit shall fail to ﬁle a plea or demurrer
or any other pleadings which may be necessary on his part to be
ﬁled, within the time herein prescribed, the plaintifff, on motion by
himself or his attorney, shall be entitled to judgment by default, or
for want of a plea, rejoinder, or any other pleading, as the case
may be.
§ 115. In all suits, instituted in any court having jurisdiction
thereof, for the purpose of collecting money, no judgment shall be
rendered at the appearance term, except by the consent of parties,
from the failure of the defendant or defendants, to plead or enter ap
pearance, as now by law required.
§ 116. The defendant or defendants shall be compellﬁd to Plead to
the merits within the ﬁrst Week of the appearance term, or upon
failure thereof, forfeit his, her, or their right to make any defense
thereafter : Provided, That this act shall not affect the laws now in
force, giving the banks of this state a summary process in the collec
tion of debts.
§ 117. N0 tax fee shall be collected from a defendant or defend
ants in any case where no defense has been made.
Dsnuaaaas.
§ 118. When any demurrer to evidence, demurrer to the declara
tion or plea, in any cause depending before the several courts in this
state, shall appear frivolous, and intended for delay, it shall be law
ful for the court where the cause is depending, to reject such demur
rer on motion, and proceed to trial as if the same had not been
offered. '
§ 119. No demurrer shall have any other effect than that of a
general demurrer; and the courts, at any time previous to the term
at which such demurrer shall stand for argument, may allow the
party, on application, to amend his pleadings without terms ; and,
after judgment in favor of the demurrer, may authorize an amend
ment on terms. And if the demurrer be overruled, the court shall
grant leave to the party demurring, to withdraw the demurrer, and
plead to the merits of the action, upon such terms as the justice of
the case may require.
§ 2. All demurrers to any part of the pleadings in suits at law,
shall be tried when the cause is called for trial, and shall not be
delayed until motion day, or the last four days of the term.
§ 121, When a demurrer shall be overruled, and the party ﬁling
the demurrer shall plead over, he shall not be considered as waiv
ing any matter covered by the demurrer, but may afterwards assign
. . .
every such matter, and the overruling the demurrer in error, or In
.
awe“ Ofludgment

§ 122. The style of all process shall be “ The State of Ala,
bama. ”
§ 2. All original process, and all subsequent process thereupon,
to ring. any person or persons to answer to any action, suit, bill, or
plaint, in any court in this state, (except suhpmnas for Witnesses,
which, in term time, may be made returnable immediately,) shall
be issued by the clerk of such court, and shall be returnable to the
ﬁrst day of the term, and shall be executed at least ﬁve days before
the return thereof ;(1) and if any person shall take out any writ or
rocess while such court is sitting, or within ﬁve days' before the
ginning of the term, such writ or process shall be made returnable
to the term next after that then held, or to be held within ﬁve days,
as aforesaid, and not otherwise: and all writs and process issue c
made returnable, or executed, in any other manner, or at any oth :f
time, than is herein before directed, may be abated on the plea of the b
defeudant: ‘Provided, nevertheless, That nothing, herein contained, [3
shall be construed to invalidate or vacate any process, warrant, or a
precept, to be issued by any of the judges of the said court, or any £
justice of the peace, or clerk of any court, or any original prosecu- a
tion, in behalf of the state ; but that the same may be issued at any :
time, and made returnable to any day of the term: and the like pro-me
ceedings on criminal suits and prosecutions, shall be agreeable to the Z
practice heretofore in use in the territorial government, except
where the same is, or may be, otherwise directed, by this or some g
other act.‘
§ 124. It shall not be necessary that any declaration,or copy 1
thereof, accompany such writ or process, but a copy of such writ 3
shall be left with the defendant, at the time of serving, and by the 8
ofﬁcer serving the same.(2) And it shall be the duty of the clerk, a
or plaintifff ’s attorney, to endorse on the back of the writ, the cause m
of the action, the nature of the specialty, or the other grounds on h
which the action isdfounded : and the sheriff, on executing the writ, d
shall deliver to ﬁle defendant, together with a copy of the writ, a
copy of the sai cndoraement.(3)
§ 125. Alljzrits issued from any of the courts, shall bear teste in {
the name of,-and be signed by, the clerk of the court from which {
they may issued. “
§ 126. The clerk or attorney, issuing process, shall mark thereon @
the day 'n which such process issued ; and the sheriff or other ofﬁ
cer reclrving the same, in order to execute, shall, in like manner, g
mark a each process the day on which he received it; and every s
clerk, attorney, sheriﬁ', or other ofﬁcer, neglecting so to do, shall for- 7
feit and pay the sum of one hundred dollars, to be recovered by M
action of debt in any court of record having cognizance thereof, by
any person who will sue for the same, with costs.
§ 127. When a writ or other process shall issue to the sheriff of l
the county where the defendant resides, service of such writ or other m
process shall be good and valid, if the said sheriff shall execute the 91
. . . . . jB
said writ or other process in any adjacent county, or in lands to m
'which the Indian title has not been extinguished, and return the m
same to the court from which the writ or other process issued.
§ 128. All writs, returnable to any court of record, shall bear teste
on the day on which the same shall be issued.
§ 129. On the return of a capias ad respondendum, against any1
erson or ersons leeall liable to be sued in the court from whic
p p O y
such writ may issue, that the defendant or defendants is or are not to
be found, the plaintifff or plaintiﬂ's may have a testutum capias, or
judicial attachment, to any other county, which process shall be exe
cuted according to its commands, and returned to the court from
which the same issued, as in other cases: Provided, Nothing in this
section shall extend to any but such actions as are termed in law
local actions.
§ 130. In every case, where persons who are within age may sue,
their next friends shall be admitted to sue for them.
§ 131. It shall be the duty of the sheriffs in the several counties
in this state, to return all writs and executions to the clerk’s office
from which they shall issue, at least three days previous to the term
of the court to which they shall be returnable; and if any sheriff
shall fail to return any writ or execution, according to the provisions
of this act, he shall be liable to all the penalties, provided by the
laws now in force, for failing to return any writ or execution to the
ﬁrst day of the term of the court to which they are returnableJq-zl
§ 132. All original, memo, and ﬁnal process, issued from c
clerk’s ofﬁce of any court in this state, shall be directed “ To any
Sheriff of the State of Alabama,” and it shall be the duty of any
sheriff (or coroner, if the case require it,) in the state, in whose
hands any such process shall be placed for service,‘ to execute and
return, or to return, if it cannot be executed, the same as required
by law, when process is directed specially to him: Provided, That
no bail writ or ca. so. shall be executed on any defendant, who is a
freeholder in the state, out of the county of his permanent residence
or any adjoining county, unless the plaintifff, his agent or attorney,
shall ﬁrst make atﬁdavit, that the defendant has left the county of
his residence, for the purpose of avoiding service of such process in
the proper county.
§ 133. When any process shall issue, which shall be required to
served or executed by the coroner, the same shall be directed
“ To any Coroner of the State of Alabama.”
18. REAL AND Possessoav Acrrons.
§ 134. In all actions, real or possessory, hereafter brought or
prosecuted in any court in this state, for any lands, tenements, or
hereditaments, a ainst any person or persons, body politic or corpo
rate,- dEriving tit e to such lands, tenements, or hereditaments, by,
from, or under the United States, or by, from, or under any Spanish
grant, or order of survey, recognized or conﬁrmed by the United States’
board of commissioners, east or west of Pearl river, the person or per
sons prosecuting any such action against any person or persons, body
politic or corporate, claiming and deriving title under the United States,
or by, from, or under any Spanish grant, or order of survey recog
nized and conﬁrmed by either of the said boards of commissioners, and
recovering judgment for any lands, tenements, and hereditaments,
from any person or persons, body politic or corporate, having derived title, by, from, under, or through the United ‘tates, or any Spanish
grant, or order of survey recognized and conﬁrmed as aforesaid, the
person or persons so obtaining judgment, shall not have any writ of
possession or seizin, nor obtain possession or seizin of such lands,
tenements, or hereditaments, until he, she, or they shall have ﬁrst
paid to the person or persons, body politic or corporate, possessing
the title thereto, derived from or under the United States, or by, from,
or under any Spanish grant, or order of survey recognized and con
ﬁrmed as aforesaid, the full value of all improvements made thereon,
as the same shall be estimated, valued and ascertained on oath, by “
ﬁve appraisers ; which appraisers shall be, by rule for that purpose,:n'i
appointed by the court in which such judgment shall have been 3
obtained, unless the parties shall agree on the value of such improve- p
ments, or agree on and submit to appraisers to value the same :
Provided, always, That this act shall not extend and be so construed, “
as to compel any plaintiﬁ' or plaintifffs in any of the said actions to me
pay for any improvement or improvements, not needful and neces
sary, which may be made on the premises, after the service of the n
writ or declaration in ejectment.
§ 135. If any person or persons, body politic or corporate, deriv- a
ing title to any lands, tenements, or hereditaments, by, from, or e
under the United States, or under any Spanish grant, or order of {
survey recognized and conﬁrmed as aforesaid, be disseized, ousted, p
or turned out of possession of said lands, tenements, or hereditaments,by any person or persons claiming, or pretending to claim title to "
such lands, tenements, or hereditaments, and on a trial in due course m
of law, a judgment should be rendered in favor of the title of said
person or persons, ousting, dispossessing, or disseizing the person
or persons, body politic or corporate, deriving title by, or under
the United States, or by order of any Spanish grant, or order of
survey recognized and conﬁrmed as aforesaid, it shall and may be
lawful for the person or persons, body polit1c or corporate, so dis
seized, ousted, or turned out of possession, to recover from the peron
or persons so ousting, dispossessing, or disseizing, the full value of
all improvements made on said lands, tenements, or hereditaments§
together with double damages and costs, in any court having jurisdiction of the same.

§ 136. The return of any sheriﬁ', that he has served, executed,
or made known, any scirefarias, shall be good and sufﬁcient, without its being served, executed, or made known in the presence of
witnesses; and a scire facias to the legal representatives of any
- - - . . .
plaintitl or defendant, who may have died pending the suit, may at
any time issue from the ofﬁce of the clerk of the court in which the
said cause may be pending.
§ 137. In all cases pending before any of the courts of recordgi
written notice to the attorney of record shall be as valid and legal,
- . .
to all intents and purposes, as if served on the party 1n person.
§ 2. All notices in writing which may be necessary or proper
7
to given by either plaintifff or defendant in any suit, eit er at
common law or in chancery, may be served by the sheriff of any
county, and the return of the sheriff of the service of the same,
shall be good and sufﬁcient in any court of record in this state.
§ 2. The sheriffs of the several counties in this state, shall have
. .
an receive the sum of ﬁfty cents for each notice served by them, by
virtue of this act.
§ 140. Whenever it becomes necessary to give notice of the
taking of a deposition or for any other purpose, in any cause pending
in law or equitv in this state, and the opposite party resides out of
k . r . . .
the county in which such cause is pending, and has no known agent
in said county, nor attorney of record in the cause, it shall be held
sufficient service of such notice, to ﬁle the same with the clerk of
the court in which such cause is pending.
20. Ss'r-orr AND Tamma
§ 141. 1In all cases, where there are or shall be mutual debts
subsisting between the plaintifff and defendant, or if either party sue
or be sued as executor or administrator, where there are mutual
debts subsisting between the testator or intestate and either party,
one debt may be set against the other, (1) either by being pleaded
in bar, or given in evidence on the general issue, or notice given of
the particular sum intended to be set off, and on what account the
same is due, notwithstanding such debts may be deemed in law to
be of a different nature; but if either debt arose by reason of a pen
alty, the sum intended to be set off shall he pleaded in bar, setting
forth what is justly due on either side, any law, usage, or custom to
the contrary notwithstanding; ‘and if it shall appear that the de
fendant hath fully paid or satisﬁed the debt or sum demanded, the
jury hall ﬁnd for the defendant, and judgment shall be entered, that
the plaintifff shall take nothing by his writ, and shall pay the costs.
And if it shall appear that any part of the sum demanded be paid,
then so much as is found to be paid shall be defalked and deducted
out of the plaintifff’s demands; and the plaintifff shall have judgment
for the residue only, with costs of suit. But if it appear to the jury
that the plaintifff is overpaid, then they shall give in their verdict
for the defendant, and withal, certify to the court, how much they
ﬁnd the plaintifff to be indebted, or in arrear to the defendant, more
than will answer the debt or sum demanded: (2) band it shall be
the duty of the court to enter up judgment for the amount so certi
. . . . .
for which execution may £85148 as an other cases : Provided,v
always, That in all cases where a tender shall be made, and full
payment be offered by discount or otherwise, in such specie as the
party by contract or agreement ought to do, and the party to whom
such tender shall be made doth refuse the same, and yet afterward
will sue for the debt or goods so tendered, the plaintifff shall not
recover any costs in such suit: Provided, also, That in all cases
where the plaintifff and defendant having accounts to produce one
against another, shall, by themselves, or attorneys, or agents, consent to a rule of court, for referring the adjustment thereof to cer
tain persons mutually chosen by them in open court, (the award or
report of such referees being made according to the submission ofl
the parties, approved of by the court, and entered upon the record,
or roll,) shall have the same effect, and be deemed and taken to be
as available in law, as a verdict given by twelve men. And the
prearty to whom any sum or sums of money are hereby awarded to
paid, shall have judgment for the recovery thereof, as is hereinbefore
directed, concerning sums found and settled by a jury.
21. 8011‘s AGAINST 'rnz STATE
§ 142. The general assembly shall direct, by law, in what man
ner, and in what courts, suits may be brought against the state.
§ 143. The several circuit courts of this state shall have original
jurisdiction in all civil causes, in which the citizens or inhabitants of
the state of Alabama may be parties plaintifff, and the state of Alahama
may be defendant, saving to the plaintifffs or defendant, in all
cases, the right to remove their said causes to the supreme court,
after judgment by appeal or writ of error, pursuant to the provisions
. .
of the exrsting laws.
§ 2. The manner of instituting suits against the said state, shall
. . . . . \ . ~ . . .
be y the plaintifff or plaintifffs, in suit at law,suing out of the circuit
court clerk’s ofﬁce, in which the action may be originated, a summons, and in cases of chancery, a subpoena in chancery, returnable
to the next succeeding term of the circuit court of the county in
which the action may be brought ; which summons or subpmna shall
be served on the governor by the sheriff of the county in which the
suit may be brought, or by the sheriff of the county in which he may
be at the time of the commencement of the suit, and shall be deemed
the leading process in such suit, and shall have the like effect and
incidents, as writs and other subpmnas in chancery, sued out, and
made returnable to said courts, respectively. 'And it shall be the
duty of the court, to receive and record all testimony applicable to
the merits of the case, and to give judgment for or against the state,v
as to justice shall appertain: Provided, That, if the plaintifff shall
demand a trial by jury, the court shall thereupon cmpannel ajury of
by-staaders,‘ and it shall be the duty of said jury, in all cases, to
return a special verdict, and, in that case, it shall not be the duty ofé
the court to record the testimony; but the judgment of the court
shall be rendered upon such verdict.
§ 145. No appeal or writ of error shall be prosecuted by the state
to reverse any judgment obtainql against it, in any of the circuit
courts of this state, except such writ of error be sued out, or such
appeal be taken within the time prescribed by law, in cases to which
the state is not a party.
§ 146. It shall be the duty of the comptroller of public accounts,
on the certiﬁcate of any clerk of the circuit court in this state, or of
the supreme court of this state, that a judgment has been rendered
. . . . .
in the court of which he is clerk, against the state in favor of any
plaintifff, specifying the amount of recovery to draw his warrant on
- . , . .
the state treasurer, in favor of the party recovering such judgment, for
the amount thereof: Provided, That no clerk of any circuit court
shall issue any certiﬁcate pursuant to the foregoing provisions, until
. . . . .
six months after the rendition of the judgment; And provided, fur
thcr, That, in addition to the certiﬁcate of the clerk of the circuit
court, the judge who presided at the trial shall certify that the same
is correct.
§ 147. It shall be the duty of the solicitor or attorney-general at
tending any circuit court where any suit is pending against the state,
to attend to the same in behalf of the state, whose duty it shall be
to order a writ of error on the rendition of any judgment against the
. . . .
state, if he thinks proper, which shall be issued by the clerk as a
matter of course, without security, and shall operate as a super
sedeas.
§ 148. The court, before whom any suit 'is tried pursuant to the
foregoing provisions of this act, shall, if necessary, appoint one addi
tional attorney, to aid the solicitor or attorney-general ; who, with
the solicitor or attorney-general, shall receive for his services out of
the public treasury, a compensation to be ﬁxed by the said judge,
who shall certify the same to the comptroller.

§ 149. The judges of the superior and inferior courts shall not
charge juries with respect to the matters of fact, but may state the
testimony, and declare the law.(l) '
§ 150. Every person desirous of suﬂ'ering a nonsuit on trial, shall
be barred therefrom, unless he do so before the jury retire from the
bar:(2) and no more than two new trials shall be granted in the
same cause : and two nonsuits shall be considered equal to a verdict
against the party suffering the same.
§ 151. In all jury trials, either party shall have the right to a
peremptory challenge of four of the jury.
§ 152. Whenever suit shall be commenced in any of the courts
founded on any writing, whether the same be under seal or not, the
court before whom the same is depending, shall receive such writ
ing as evidence of the debt or duty for which it was given ; and it
shall not be lawful for the defendant or defendants in any such suit,
- . . .
to deny the execution of such writing, unless it be by plea, support
ed by the affidavit of the party putting in such plea; which afﬁdavit
shall accompany such plea, and be ﬁled therewith, at the time such
plea is ﬁled ; which afﬁdavit may be made before any justice of the
peace, or before the clerk of the court where such suit may be de
pending.
§ 153. Whensoever any suit is depending in any of the courts,
founded on any writing, under the seal of the. person to be charged
therewith, it shall be lawful for the defendant or defendants therein,
by a special plea, to impeach, or go into the consideration of such
bond, in the same manner as if the said writing had not been sealed.
§ 154. All private acts of assembly may be given in evidence,
. . . . .
Without bem 5 mail leaded and as rated With the cneral acts
_ g P6 Y P a P' g
of the legislature.
§ 155. Papers read in evidence to the jury on the trial of any
cause, though not under seal, may be carried from the bar by the
Jury. .
§ 156. Interpreters may be sworn truly to interpret, when ne-l
cessary‘
§ 157. All certiﬁcates issued in pursuance of any act of congress,
by any of the boards of commissioners, register of a land ofﬁce, or
any other person duly authorized to issue such certiﬁcate upon any
warrant, or order of survey, or to any donation or preemption claimants,
for any lands in this state, shall be taken and received as vest
ing a full, complete, and legal title, in the person in whose favor the
said certiﬁcate is granted, to the lands therein mentioned, and his,
her, or their assigns, so far as to enable the holder of such certiﬁcate
to maintain any action thereon, and the same shall be received in
evidence as such in any court in this state.
§ 158. When any suit shall be instituted by any person or persons,
as assignee or assignees, of any bond or other writing, it shall not be
necessary for the plaintifff or plaintiﬂ's to prove the assignment or as-l'f
signments, unless the defendant or defendants shall annex to the plea
denying such assignment or assignments, an aﬁidavit, stating that
such defendant or defendants verily believe, that some one or more
of such assignments were for ed, or make oath to the same effect
in open court, at the time of ﬁling such plea.
§ 159. It shall be the duty of the secretary of state for the state
of Alabama, on application, to give certiﬁed copies of any of the
acts of the several states, or of the United States, which are now or
may hereafter be in his ofﬁce, and the copy so certiﬁed shall be evidence in any court of law or equity in this state. (1)
§ 160. Any party, plaintifff or defendant, in any action at law
pending in any circuit or county court in this state, wishing a discovcry
from the adverse party, to be used in evidence at the trial of such
action, may ﬁle written interrogatories to such party, and call upon
him to answer the same in solemn form, on his oath or afﬁrmation; and
if, upon such interrogatories being ﬁled, it shall appear to the court,
by the oath of the party ﬁling the same or otherwise, that answers
to such interrogatories will be material evidence in the cause, and
that the interrogatories themselves are pertinent, and such as the
a verse party would be bound to answer upon a bill of discovery,ﬁ
in a court of chancery, the court shall allow such interrogatories,¢
and shall make an order requiring the adverse party to answer the
same in writing, and in solemn form, on his oath or afﬁrmation ; and
the answers to such interrogatories, being so given and ﬁled, shall
be evidence at the trial of the cause, in the same manner and to the
same purpose and extent, and upon the same condition, in all re
spects, as if they had been procured upon a bill in chancery for
discovery, but no further, or otherwise ; and if the party to whom
interrogatories shall be so propounded, and who shall be so requircd
 
by the court to answer the same, shall, in sixty days after notice,
and a copy of such interrogatories served on him, fail to make an
swer in manner aforesaid, or shall answer the same evasively, the
court may attach him and compel him to answer in open court, or it
may continue the cause and require more direct and explicit answers,
or if the party to whom such interrogatories shall be propounded, be
defendant in the action, it may set aside his plea or pleas, and give
judgment against him, as by default ; or if the plaintifff may order,
his suit to be dismissed with costs, as shall, in the discretion of the
court, be deemed most just and proper: Provided, That nothing,
herein contained, shall preclude any party to such action from exhib
iting his bill in chancery, for a discovery against any adverse party,
as heretofore, if he shall elect to do so ; but any party, having elected
to ﬁle such interrogatories, shall not be allowed afterwards to exhibit
a bill in chancery, for discovery touching th me matters.
§ 161. In all suits to be commenced upon“ counts for a sum not
exceeding one hundred dollars, the oath of the plaintifff shall be
received as evidence of the demand, unless the same be controverted
by oath of the defendant; but this section shall not apply to the
case of executors and administrators, trustees and guardians when
sued'

§ 162. All civil causes and suits shall be commenced in the courts
of the county in which the defendant may be found, or if it be a real
action, an action of ejectment, or trespass quare clausumfregit, then
in the county in which the cause of action arose ; and all causes and
actions, so commenced in any court, shall be brought to issue, ac
cording to the rules that may be ordained and established for the or
derly conducting and management of business in the said courts ; and
if the said issue be an issue in fact, the same shall be tried by the
jurors attending the said court, at the next succeeding term, if there
be time for trial thereof, and the same be not continued by order of
court; and all causes, remaining on the docket of any court, at the
rising thereof, shall be continued over, of course, for trial at the next
succeeding term.
§ 2. No freeholder of this state shall be sued out of the county
of is permanent residence, provided the same be within this state,
. . . . .
unless it be in the actions enumerated in the last section ; nor shall
any person, who may reside in this state, he held to bail, if sued out
of the district or county of his residence and freehold. " (1)
§ 164. In all cases where, by the division of any county, new
counties have been established, and in the establishment of all future
counties, all unﬁnished business in the courts of such county previous
to such division, which would be properly cognizable in the courts
of such newly established county, whether of Suits, probate ‘of mat
..'i\ K '
w
ters, or other business, shall be transferred to the proper court of such
new counties, to be there acted on and determined as if they had
therein originated.
§ 165. Any person or persons may be sued in the county in which
he, she, or they may be found, without regard to his, her, or their
residence, if oath be made, before the clerk issuing the writ, or any
justice of the peace, that such person or persons hath or have gone
from the county of his, her, or their residence, for the purpose of
avoiding service of process in their proper county.
§ 166. Judges of the circuit courts, within their respective cir-I
cuits, at or before the ﬁrst trial term of any suit, civil or criminal,i
shall have power to change the venue thereof, on good and sufﬁcient
cause, set forth and duly supported by oath or afﬁrmation: and
whena change of venue shall be allowed in any suit, the trial thereof
shall be adjourned, unter the direction of the judge, to the nearest
adjoining county, whic is free from the like exception, and the trial
of such cause, in the court to which it may be adjourned, shall be by
a jury of freeholders or householders : Provided, That such change
of venue shall in no instance be allowed, more than once in the same
cause or suit: Provided, also, That in criminal prosecutions, the right
to the change of Venue, under the provisions of this section, shall be
conﬁned to the party prosecuted.
§ 167. It shall be lawful for the several courts within this state,
when any real action may be instituted or pending in such courts, to
order the change of venue in such action to any adjacent county, on
the party wishing such change making affidavit, that he, she, or they
verily believe that justice-cannot be done in the county where such
suit may be pending: ~Provided, That the party, opposed to such
change of venue, shall have the right to take the testimony of aged
or inﬁrm witnesses, in all cases where a change of venue may bet
prayed, by dulfmus pntcstatcm, to be directed to any justice of the
quorum or pfithe peace, in the county from whence the said venue
may be changed ; the party wishing such dedimus, previously making
an application for that purpose, to the judge who may preside in the
judicial district where such suit may be pending, and iving the op
posite party sufﬁcient notice of the time and place of taiing such tes
timony; which testimony, in form aforesaid taken, together with the
dedimus, shall be sealed up, by the person by whom the said testimo
ny may be taken, and be directed to the clerk of the court to which
the venue may he changed, and shall be read in evidence in the case
in which it may be taken, subject to such restrictions and formalities
as are now prescribed by law. ‘
§ 168. When the venue has been changed in any real action, and
judgment had and rendered in favor of the pl aintiﬁ‘, it maybe lawful,
and it is hereb ' required, that the clerk of the court, where such
judgment shallbe rendered, shall issue the writ of habere facias posscssionem, in favor of the plaintiﬁ',directed to the sherifl'of the countywhere the action originated. _
§ 169. It shall be lawful to sue any common or other carrier 01
carriers by water, whether they be the owner or owners of any vessel,
steam-boat, barge, ﬁat-boat, or other water craft, navigating any
river or bay of this state, and which shall transport, convey or carry
any oods, wares, merchandise, cotton, lumber, or passengers, for
freig t, hire or reward, in the county, where any contract or agreement, whether expressed or implied, for any such transportation, conveyin or carrying, shall have been made or entered into : Provided,
The defendant or defendants, or either of them, to any such suit so
to be brought, shall be found in the county where any such contract
was made, as well as in the county or counties in which the defend
ant or defendants, or either of them, to any such suit, may reside or
inhabitt
§ 170. A change of venue may be had on good cause shown at
any time before the ﬁnal trial : Provided, That the venue shall not
be changed more than once in any cause by the same party: Provi
ded, also, That when a chan e of venue shall take place in a cause
brought in a county court, w ich is hereby allowed, under the rules
now provided for as respects causes pending in the circuit courts, the
same shall be ordered and sent for trial to acircuit court in some other
county: Provided, That when a motion for chan e of venue shall
have been made and overruled, achange shall not e allowed at any
subsequent term.
CHAPTER JUDICIAL PROCEEDINGS IN CHANCERY.
1. Equity Jurisdiction. 3. Change of Venue.
2. Mode of Proceeding in Equity. 4. Injunctions.
1. EQUITY JURISDICTION.
§ 1. Tm: general assembly shall have power to establish a court
courts of chancery, with original and appellate equity jurisdiction;
and until the establishment of such court or courts, the said jurisdic
tion shall be vested in the judges of the circuit courts, respectively:
Provided, That the judges of the several circuit courts shall have
power to issue writs of injunction, returnable into the courts of chan
cer .
§ 2. The State of Alabama shall be divided into three chancery divisions, as is hereinafter provided.
§ 3. The state shall also be divided into forty chancery districts,
to be numbered from one to forty, inclusive, to wit :
The counties of Mobile and Baldwin, shall constitute the ﬁrst
district :
The counties of Washington and Clarke, the second district:
The county of Sumter, the third district :
The county of Marengo, the fourth district:
The county of Monroe, the ﬁfth district :
The counties of Conecuh and Covington, the sixth district:
The county of Butler, the seventh district :
The counties of Dale, Coffee and Henry, the eighth district :
The county of Barbour, the ninth district :
The county of Pike, the tenth district :
The county of Montgomery, the eleventh district :
The county of Lowndes, the twelfth district :
The county of \Vilcox, the thirteenth district :
The county of Russell, the fourteenth district:
The counties of Chambers and Randolph, the ﬁfteenth district :
The county of Macon, the sixteenth district :
The county of Tallapoosa, the seventeenth district :
The counties of Coosa and Autauga, the eighteenth district :
The county of Dallas, the nineteenth district :
The county of Perry, the twentieth district :
The county of Greene, the twenty-ﬁrst district :
The county of Tuskaloosa, the twenty-second district :
The county of Pickens, the twenty-third district :
The counties of Fayette and Marion, the twenty-fourth district :
The counties of \Valker and Jefferson, the twenty-ﬁfth district :
The county of Bibb, the twenty-sixth district :
The county of Shelby, the twenty-seventh district :
The county of Lauderdale, the twenty-eighth district:
The county of Franklin, the twenty-ninth district :
The county of Lawrence, the thirtieth district :
The county of Limestone, the thirty-ﬁrst district :
The county of Madison, the thirty-second district :
The county of Morgan, the thir_t -third district :
The counties of Blount and St. lair, the thirty-fourth district :
The county of Marshall, the thirty-ﬁfth district :
The county of Jackson, the thirty-sixth district :
The county of De Kalb, the thirty-seventh district:
The county of Cherokee, the thirty-eighth district:
The county of Benton, the thirty-ninth district: and,
The county of Talladega, the fortieth district.
§ 4. The chancery districts, numbering from one to thirteen, inclusive, shall constitute and compose the Southern chancery division. S
The chaiicery districts, numbering from fourteen t0 twenty-sevenjiﬁ
each inclusive, shall constitute and compose the Middle chancery division;
and,
The chancery districts, numbering from twenty-eight to forty,1v',‘
each inclusive, shall constitute and compose the Northern chancery division.
'For each of said chancery divisions, there shall be elected by
I joint vote of both houses of the general assembly, a chancellor, who
shall hold his ofﬁce for the term of six years, and shall reside in the division for which he may be elected ; said chancellor shall hold said
chancery courts hereby established, and shall be vested with and exercise
the powers, and perform the duties hereinafter speciﬁed.
§ 5. There shall be. held in each of said chancery districts, one
’ .
chancery court in each and every year. _ _
§ 6. Said chancellors shall appoint a register for each of said courts,
hereby established, in each of their respective divisions, whose duty
it shall be to perform all the duties pertaining to the ofﬁce of register
and master in chancery, for the court at which he may be so appointed; and said registers shall hold their oﬂice for the term of four
years, and shall keep their ofﬁces at the places of holding courts in
their respective districts.
§ 7. The said registers, before they enter upon the discharge of
their duties, shall respectively give bond in the sum of ten thousand
dollars, with securities, to be approved of by said chancellor, payable
to the governor, and his successors in ofﬁce, for the faithful discharge of the duties of their respective ofﬁces ; which bonds shall
not become void by reason of any recovery thereon, but may be sued
on, as often as a cause of action may arise; and said registers shall
receive for their services, such fees and allowances, as are now al
lowed to clerks of the circuit courts for like services.
§ 8. The court-house in the county of Mobile shall be the place of
holding the said courts for the ﬁrst district :
The court-house in the countv of Clarke, shall be the place of hold. . Y .
mg said courts for the second district:
The court-house in the county of Conecuh shall be the place of
said courts for the sixth district:
The court-house in the county of Henry shall be the place of hold
said courts for the eighth district :
The city of Wetumpka shall be the place of holding said courts
the eighteenth district :
The court-house in the county of Fayette shall be the place of
said courts for the twenty-fourth district :
The court-house in the county of Jefferson shall be the place of
said courts for the twenty-ﬁfth district :
The court-house in the county of Blount shall be the place of hold
said courts for the thirty-fourth district :
The court-house in the county of Chambers shall be the place of
holding said courts for the ﬁfteenth district : and,
The court-houses in the counties composing all other districts shall
be the respective places of holding said courts in each of said dis
§ 9. The said chancery courts shall be holden in the several dis
at the times following, to wit :
Fon THE Sou-mans DIVISION
In the ﬁrst district, on the ﬁrst Monday in April, in each and every
year, and may continue in session two weeks :
In the second district, on the third Monday in March, in each and
every year, and may continue in session one week :
In the third district, on the ﬁrst Monday in March, in each and
every year, and may continue in session one week :
In the fourth district, on the second Monday in March, in each
and every year, and may continue in session one week :
In the ﬁfth district, on the fourth Monday in March, in each and
every year, and may continue in session until the ﬁrst Monday in
April :
In the sixth district, on the third Monday in April, in each and
every year, and may continue in session one week:
In the seventh district, on the fourth Monday in April, in each and
every year, and may continue in session one week :
In the eighth district, on the second Monday in October, in each
and every year, and may continue in session one week :
In the ninth district, on the third Monday in October, in each and
every year, and may continue in session one week :
In the tenth district, on the fourth Monday in October, in each and
every year, and may continue in session one week:
In the eleventh district, on the ﬁrst Monday after the fourth Mon
day in October, in each and every year, and may continue in session
one week :
In the twelfth district, on the second Monday after the fourth
Monday in October in each and every year, and may continue in ses
sion one week :
In the thirteenth district, on the third Monday after the fourth
Monday in October, in each and every year, and may continue in
session one week.

In the fourteenth district,on the ﬁrst Monday in May, in each and
every year, and may continue in session one week:
In the ﬁfteenth district, on the second Monday in May,‘ in eaeh[and every year, and may continue in session one week:
In the sixteenth district, on the third Monday in May, in each
and every year, and may continue in session one week:
In the seventeenth district, on the fourth Monday in May, in each
and every year, and may continue in session one week:
In the eighteenth district, on the ﬁrst Monday after the fourth
Monday in May, in each and every year, and may continue in ses
sion one week:
In the nineteenth district, on the second Monday after the fourth
Monday in May, in each and every year, and may continue in ses
sion one week:
In the twentieth district, on the third Monday in June, in each and
every year, and may continue in session one week:
In the twenty-ﬁrst district, on the fourth Monday in June, in each
and every year, and may continue in session one week:
In the twenty-second district, on the ﬁrst Monday after the fourth
Monday in June, in each and every year, and may continue in ses
sion one week:
In the twenty-third district, on the second Monday after the fourth
Monday in June, in each and every year, and may continue in ses
sion one week:
In the twenty-fourth district, on the third Monday after the fourth
Monday in June, in each and every year, and may continue in ses
sion one week:
In the twenty-ﬁfth district, on the fourth Monday after the fourth
Monday in June, in each and every year, and may continue in ses
sion one week:
In the twenty-sixth district, on the ﬁfth Monday after the fourth
Monday in June, in each and every year, and may continue in ses
sion one week:
In the twenty-seventh district, on the sixth Monday after the
fourth Monday in June, in each and every year, and may continue
in session one week.
Foa 'rna Non'rnnrm DIVISION
In the twenty-eighth district, on the ﬁrst Monday in May, in each
and every year, and may continue in session one week:
In the twenty-ninth district, on the second Monday in May, in each
and every year, and may continue in session one week:
In the thirtieth district, on the third Monday in May, in each and
every year, and may continue in session one week:
In the thirty-ﬁrst district, on the fourth Monday in May, in each
and every year, and may continue in session one week:
In the thirty-second district, on the ﬁrst Monday after the fourth
Monday in May, in each and every year, and may continue in ses
sion one week:
In the thirty-third district, on the second Monday after the fourth
Monday in May, in each and every year, and may continue in ses
sion one week:
In the thirty-fourth district, on the third Monday after the fourth
Monday in May, in each and every year, and may continue in ses
sion one week:
In the thirty-ﬁfth district, on the fourth Monday after the fourth
Monday in May, in each and every year, and may continue in ses
sion one week: ’
In the thirty-sixth district, on the ﬁfth Monday after the fourth
Monday in May, in each and every year, and may continue in ses
sion one week :
In the thirty-seventh district, on the sixth Monday after the fourth
Monday in May, in each and every year, and may continue in ses
sion one week:
In the thirty-eighth district, on the seventh Monday after the
fourth Monday in May, in each and every year, and may continue
in session one week:
In the thirty-ninth district, on the eighth Monday after the fourth
Monday in May in each and every year, and may continue in ses
sion one week:
And in the fortieth district, on the ninth Monday after the fourth
Monday in May, in each and every year, and may continue in ses
sion one week.
“And the J udgc of the southern chancery division is hereby re
quired to hold a separate court for the county of Montgomery, on
the ﬁrst Monday in July, in each and every year, in addition to the
court now required by law.
§ 10. All the powers, now exercised by the present judges of
the circuit courts in chancery, are hereby withdrawn from said
judges and said circuit courts, and vested in the courts of chancery,
and the chancellors hereby established: Provided, That the several
judges of the supreme and circuit courts may award writs of injunc
tion and ne erect returnable into said courts of chancery.
§ 11. All causes, now pending in the chancery courts, as now
established by law, shall, on the application of either complainant
or defendant, be transferred to the district in which the defendant
resides; and such transfer, when made, shall be done by order of
the court, entered on its minutes; and it shall, thereupon, be the
duty of the register of the court, wherein the cause is now pending,
immediately thereafter to deliver to the register of the court, to
the said cause shall be ordered to be transferred, the original
papers in such suit, together with a transcript of all entries, orders
and decrees, made in such cause in the court, from which said cause
is ordered to be removed, all of which shall be certiﬁed by the
said register delivering the same: Provided, That it shall be lawful
for all causes, now pending in any chancery court, to be and con
tinue in such court, and be there disposed of, in the same manner
as they would have been, if this not had not passed; unless an order
be made for their transfer to some other court, as is herein above
provided.
§ 12. The several sheriffs and coroners, of the respective counties
in this state, shall execute and return all process awarded and issued
from said courts of chancery, and be officers of said courts; and the
sheriffs or coroners of the counties, in which said courts of chancery
shall be holden, shall be sheriffs of said courts of chancery, and shall
attend its sittings; and they shall receive, for the services they
render in obedience to said courts of chancery, such fees as are now
allowed for like services.
§ 13. All causes and suits in chancery, which may hereafter
arise in any of the counties of this state, shall be returnable to,
and determined by, the said courts of chancery, to which the un
finished chancery business, pending in the circuit courts of said
counties, is required to be transferred by the seventh section of
this act.
§ 14. Said chancellors shall be vested with, and exercise all the
_ _
powers and perform all the duties, which are usual and customary p
for chancellors to do and perform. “
§ 15. Said chancellors shall, each, receive for their services, two I
thousand dollars annually, to be paid to them quarter-yearly. “
§ 16. The supreme court shall have appellate jurisdiction of all g
causes, which may be tried in said courts of chancery. h
§ 17. The registers in chancery are empowered and authorized in j
vacation to grantnrits of injunction and ne anal, and all special
orders, which it would be competent for the chancellor to grant,
subject, however, to be annulled or modiﬁed by the chancellor on ax
proper application to him.
§ 18. The chancellor and registers, respectively, shall have power
to administer oaths in all cases in chancery, when oaths are necessary
and proper.
§ 19. Whenever the presiding chancellor shall be incompetent to
hear a cause, by reason of his being interested in the subject matterof the suit, or by reason of other legal objection, it shall be his duty,
on motion of either of the parties, to transfer the same to the near
est court free of the objection: Provided, however, With the consent
of the parties, he may retain the cause, and hear and determine the
same.
§ 20. The registers shall have full power and authority, in vacation, to make interlocutory orders and decrees, in any cause pending
in any of said courts, in their respective districts: Provided, That
the opposite party shall have reasonable notice of the time and place
of making an application for such order or decree ; and the orders
or decrees, so made, shall have the same effect, as if made in term
time ; but said orders and decrees shall, at all times, be subject to
the revision, order and control, of the chancellor.
§ 21. All laws now in force, regulating the practice in the separate
courts of chancery in this state, not inconsistent with the provisions of this act, are hereby made applicable to said courtsas herein
provided.
§ 22. The said court shall have and exercise all the power,
authority and jurisdiction, incident to courts of chancery, and may
ordain and establish all necessary rules for the orderly conducting di
business in equity, and for hearing and taking orders on interlocu
tory matters in vacation.
§ 23. The said courts of chancery may direct an issue in fact to
be tried whenever they judge it necessary ; and such issue shall be
tried in the same manner, by a jury, and the same mode of proceedings
observed in the trial thereof in every respect, as if it were an
issue in fact joined in a suit in law in the court to which it shall be
sent for trial.
§ 24. Each of the chancellors shall have power and authority to
issue writs of injunction, and of as meat, when the case. may require
it ; but every person shall be discharged from a writ of ne amt, on
giving good and sufﬁcient security ; and for that purpose, the chancellor
of the court granting such writ, shall endorse thereon, the sum
and number of securities required.
§ 25. Said courts shall have. power and authority' to order and
issue all such process, as hath usually belonged to courts ofchancery ;and in cases where decrees shall be passed for a sum of money, it
shall be lawful for execution to issue thereon against the defendant’s
oods and chattels, lands and tenements, or against the defendant’s
y, to satisfy such decree and costs, in like manner, and with the
same force and effect, as executions may issue on judgments obtain
ed at law in the superior courts of this state.
.
§ 26. Costs in equity shall be paid by either party, at the discre
tion of the court.
§ 27. The chancellors shall have power, in vacation, to examine
all answers to bills in chancery : and if any defendant or defendants,
have been held to bail, any chancellor, on application, may, and he
is l‘i‘ereby authorized to reduce or discharge such bail taken as afore
sai .
§ 28. The courts of equity shall have jurisdiction in all cases of
gambling consideration, so far as to sustain a bill for discovery, or to
enJom Judgments at law.
§ 29. The courts of chancery shall, in all cases where a bill is
pending, or may be hereafter ﬁled, to compel the speciﬁc perform
ance of a contract, have power to make a decree, vesting title to any
property, real or personal, in the complainant, as fully and effectu
ally as if conveyed by the defendant, in conformity with the contract
on which such bill and decree are founded : and a writ shall issue
to the sheriff or other otﬁcer, commanding him forthwith to put such
complainant in possession.
§ 30. The said court, when a bill praying a review of the proceed
in which a decree shall have been pronounced, shall be pre
sented, may, upon such bill and the circumstances of the case, as the
same shall appear satisfactory, direct the proceedings on such decree
to be stayed, until a decree on the said bill of review shall be made,
or until further order of the said court; or the said court may refuse
to grant a stay of proceedings in that case as may seem right : Pro
vidcd, That the said court may, in either of the said cases, direct
such security to be given, and in such places, as is usual in cases of
injunction, or such other security as may seem reasonable: Pro
vidcd, That no bill of review shall be brought on motion made there
for, except it be within three years from the time of pronouncing
such decree; saving to infants, femes covert, persons non campus
mantis, persons imprisoned or beyond seas, a right to move a bill of
review, within three years after such disability shall have been
removed.
§ 31. The equitable title or claim to land or otherreal estate,
shall hereafter be liable to the payment of debts by suit in chancery,
and not otherwise ; and when a bill shall be ﬁled for that purpose,
all persons concerned in interest, shall be made parties thereto.
§ 32. When any trustee shall desire to resign his or her trust, in the
manner now prescribed by law, and any person, interested in the trust
estate, shall reside beyond the limits of this state, on afﬁdavit being
made of the fact, it shall be the duty of the register in chancery of
the proper chancery district, to cause publication to be made in
some newspaper printed in the state, for three months, stating the
time and place where the application will be made and determined.
§ 33. When any trustee shall die, on the application of any per
son interested in the trust estate, to the register in chancery of the
proper chancery district, it shall be his duty to appoint one or more
trustees in the stead of such deceased trustee, as in the case of the
resignation of trustees : Provided, That the notice prescribed by law
shall in all cases be given.
§ 2. The mode of commencing suits in equity, shall be by ﬁling
a bill with the clerk of the circuit court of the county in which the
suit is instituted, wherein the clerk shall issue a subpama ad respondendum, with a copy of the bill, which shall be served by the sheriﬁ'
of the county where the defendant resides, or may be found, and returned to the ﬁrst day of the next term.
§ 2. The defendant shall ﬁle his answer or demurrer within
thirty days after the service of the subpzena, unless within that riod
he shall obtain further time from the clerk of the said court, or grim a
circuit judge, on reasonable cause shown, which further time shall
not extend beyond the ﬁrst day of the next term, otherwise the bil
shall be taken pro confesso, and the complainant, if he deem it necessary, may take an attachment to compel an answer. .
§ 36. No plea or special demurrer shall be ﬁled to any bill or answer,
but it shall be lawful for the defendant to embrace all the matter of his plea and demurrer, either general or special, in his answer,g
and shall have the same beneﬁt thereof as if the same had been
pleaded : Provided, That the defendant may demur generally to the
ill, which,if overruled, he shall pay costs thereon, ﬁle a sufﬁcient
answer, and o to trial forthwith, if the complainant requires it,
otherwise the ill shall be taken pro confesso, and an attachment
may issue to compel an answer.
§ 37. At the time of ﬁling his answer, the defendant shall also
ﬁle his exceptions, if he chooses to except to the bill, for scandalous
or impertinent matter; and the complainant also, on or before the
ﬁrst day of the term next after the ﬁling of the answer, shall ﬁle his
exceptions thereto, if he chooses to except for scandal, impertinence,
or insufﬁciency :—All exceptions shall be heard and determined by
the presiding judge, in open court, the ﬁrst term after they are ﬁled,;
and if ﬁled on the ﬁrst day of the term, they shall be heard and determined during that term :__If any of the exceptions are sustained,
the party ﬁlinw them shall be entitled to his costs thereon, and af
continuance of the suit to the next term if he prays it: if all the
exceptions are overruled, the opposite party shall be entitled to his
costs thereon, and a continuance if he prays it : Provided, That
where exceptions ﬁled to the insufﬁciency of an answer are sustained,
the defendant shall forthwith ﬁle a sufﬁcient answer and come to
trial immediately, if the complainant prays it; unless the court, for
good cause, grant further time, otherwise the bill shall be taken pro
confesso as to the insutﬁcient matter, and an attachment may issue
to compel a sufﬁcient answer ; And provided, also, That at any
time before the hearing of the cause, the court may grant either
party leave to amend his bill or answer, whether exceptions are taken
or not.
§ 2. It shall not be required to ﬁle a replication to an answer;
an in all cases where the answer is ﬁled ten days before the sitting
of the court, or the bill is taken pro confesso for want of an answer,
the cause shall be heard and determined at that term, 'if practicable,
unless, on good cause shown, either party continue the same.
§ 2. Before a decree is pronounced on a bill taken pro confesso,
the court shall be satisﬁed, by sufﬁcient evidence, of the justice of
the complainant’s claim or demand ; but in all cases, before the hesr
ing of the cause, the defendant shall have leave to set aside the order
pro confesso, by ﬁling r. full and complete answer; and where an
attachment may issue for want of an answer, or sufﬁcient answer, or
for not obeying the order, or performing the decree of the court, or
for disobedience to its process, the defendant shall be discharged
therefrom hy-a compliance at or before the next term. .
§ 2. The presiding judge shall render his decree in writing, on
or
efore the adjournment of the court, unless in weighty and difﬁcult
cases, in which he may be indulged to the ensuing term.
§ 41. All answers and bills‘ for injunctions, and for writs of ne
. . .
ezeat, shall be sworn to before any clerk of a circuit court, judge, or
justice of the peace.
§ 42. It shall be lawful to grant writs of ne cunt, not only in
cases where a sum of money is due, but also where the complainant
has an equitable claim or demand against the defendant 2 Provided,
That all writs of injunction and as meat maybe dissolved at the next
term after they were granted, on good cause shown. (1
§ 43. When it is necessary to the justice of the case to have a
reference of matters of account,the court in its decree shall order the
same to be referred to the clerk, to ascertain and report thereon, at
or before the next term ; and from which either party may appeal to
the court, having given the opposite party ten days’notice thereof,
W1th the grounds of appeal distinctly set forth, and 1f the party ap
pealing does not prevail, he shall pay cost thereon ; but if a decree
cannot be given on the merits of the case, until matters of account
between the parties are referred, then the same shall be referred and
ascertained before the hearing, under such rules as the court may
prescribe. In ascertaining and adjusting accounts, sums and items
not exceeding ten dollars, each, shall be allowed on the party’s oath,
unless disproved by sufficient testimony ; and sums and items above
ten dollars, each, shall be proved by sufﬁcient vouchers or evidence.
§ 44. If the defendant in any suit in equity, against whom sub
puena or other_ process may issue, shall not cause an appearance to
be entered, Within such time and in such manner as, by the rules of
the court, the same oght to have been entered, in case such sub
prena or other process had been duly served, and afﬁdavit being
made, that such defendant resides beyond the limits of the state; or
that, upon inquiry at his usual place of abode, he could not be found
so as to be served with such. process; and that there is just cause to
believe that such defendant is gone out of the limits of the state, or
otherwise absconded, to avoid being served with such subpoena or
other process; then, in either case, the court may make an order,
directing such defendant to appear at a certain day therein named ;
a copy of which order shall be published, within forty days there
after, in some gazette regularly published in this state, for such space
of time as the court shall direct, and shall, within the time aforesaid,
be posted up at the door of the court-house where made ; and said
court may, at their discretion, direct such order to be published in
any gazette in the United States, and for such space of time as they
may deem reasonable ' and if the defendant do not appear, within
 
the time limited by such order, or within such further time as the
court shall appoint, then, on due proof of publication as aforesaid,
the court may order the plaintiﬂ’s bill to be taken pro confesso, and
make decree thereon, and carry‘ such decree into full effect as in
other cases : Provided, That proceedings in equity against absent
. .
defendants, and decrees made on such proceedings, shall be subject
to the restrictions, limitations, and provisos, hereinafter mentioned.
§ 45. The complainant shall,before obtaining any decree by virtue
of the foregoing section of this act, give good and sufﬁcient sccurity,,Ln“,'_,
in such sum as the court may direct, to abide such order, touching
the restitution of the estate or effects to be affected by such decree, as
the court may make concerning the same, on the appearance pnd
petition of the defendant to have said cause re-hcard ; and if any decree shall be made in pursuance of this act, against a person residing
beyond the limits of the state, at the time of pronouncing such decree,{1
and such person shall,within two years after making the same, reside
within the state, or become publicly visible therein, then such tie
fendant shall be served with a copy of such decree in a reasonable
time after such residence or public appearance shall be known to the
complainant; and in case such defendant de art thialife within two
years after making such decree, and before the service of such copyﬁl
then, if the heir of such defendant shall have any real estate,wherco
possession shall have been given to the complainant, and such heir
may be found ; or if such heir be a fcmc covert, infant, or person noncompos mantis, the husband, or guardian of such heir, or if the personal estate of such defendant shall have been levied on, or possession
thereof given to the complainant, then the executor or administrator,
if any such there he, shall be served with a copy of such decree,
within areasonable time after the death of the defendant, and his
heirs, executors, or administrators in this state shall be known to the
complainant.
§ 46. If any person,or persons, served with a copy of such decree,
shall not, within twelve months thereafter, appear and petition tohave the cause re-heard, such decree, made as aforesaid, shall stand
absolutely conﬁrmed against the person or persons served withcopy as aforesaid, his, her, or their heirs, executors, or administrators,
and all persons claiming under him, her, or them, by virtue Of
any act done after the commencement of the suit.
§ 2. If any person served with a copy of such decree as aforesaid, shall within twelve months thereafter, or if any person not soserved, shall, within three years after pronouncing such decree, ap—
pear and petition to be heard, touching the matter of such decree
and pay the costs of suit, such person or persons, his, her, or their
representative, or any person claiming under him, her, or them, by
virtue of any act done before the commencement of the suit, may be
admitted to answer the bill, and such proceedings had, as if no dccree had passed.
§ 48. If any person or persons, against whom such decree shall be
made, his, her, or their heirs, executors, or administrators, shall not,
within three years next after making such decree, appear and pcti
tion to have such cause re-heard, and pay costs of suit as aforesaid,
such decree, made as aforesaid, shall stand absolutely conﬁrmed
against the defendant or defendants, his, her, or their heirs, execu
tors, or administrators,'and against all persons claiming or to claim
by, from, or under him, her, or them, or any of them, by virtue of
any act done or to be done subsequent to the commcncement of
such suit : Provided, That this act shall not be so construed as to
authorize proceedings against persons residing out of the state, unless
the ground or cause of action, or the transaction on which the bill
may be brought, took place within the state.
§ 49. The chancellors of this state shall prepare and adopt a sys
tem of rules, for the regulation and government of proceedings in the
courts of chancery, and from time to time amend the same : Provid
ed, That they be not repugnant to, or inconsistent with, the laws of
the land; And provided, They are approved of by the judges of the
supreme court.
§ 50. All testimony, in chancery, shall be taken on interrogato
ries and cross interrogatories, which interrogatories and' cross inter
shall be ﬁled with the register, and issue from his ofﬁce
with the commission.
§ 51. The registers in chancery, after having their ofﬁcial bonds
recorded in the clerk’s ofﬁce of the county court, of the county where
the court of chancery may be held, shall lodge the same in the ofﬁce
of secretary of state, on pain of beingremoved from ofﬁce by the chan
cellor of the proper division.
§ 2. The chancellors are hereby vested with power, each in their
respective divisions, to remove from ofﬁce any of their registers for
misbehavior, malpractice, or any negligence in the duties of ofﬁce,
and to require of them new bonds, whenever they may deem it ne
cessary.
§ 2. For disobedience to any order or decree of the chancellor,
. . .
an on a sufﬁcient showmg by afﬁdavit, the chancellor may order
process of attachment to issue, to bring the party before him, either
in vacation or term time, (as the case may be,) to show cause why
he should not stand committed.
§ 54. Whenever an injunction is ordered to be dissolved, either
with or without the six per cent. damage, and the injunction bond is
ordered to have the force and effect of a judgment, it shall be the
duty of the register, to certify the same, meet or with the transcript
of the bond, to the court of law ; to the end, that the plaintifffat law,
may have execution on the injunction bond, as well as for the six
per cent.“ damage, if any be awarded.
§ 55. Exceptions to bills, answers, and reports, shall be heard and
determined by the register in the ﬁrst instance, but subject to an ap
cal to the chancellor.
§ 56. Whenever the chancellors shall direct a feigned issue to be
tried by ajury at law, the issue shall be made upon a supposed wager,
as heretofore, and shall be tried in the circuit court of the county in
which the court of chancery may be held.
§ 57. In all cases where the right and title to property, whether
real or personal, shall be decreed to either of the parties, the decree
itself shall vest the right and title in the party to whom it is decreed,
and a deed of conveyance shall not be required to complete the title:
Provided, That all such decrees, vesting title to real estate, shall
be recorded in the ofﬁce of the clerk of the county court of the coun
ty in which such real estate shall lie, under the same laws of regis
tration as are applicable to deeds and conveyances of lands.
§ 58. \thn service of a bill shall be made personally on the de
fendant, and the defendant shall refuse or fail to anSWer the allega
tions in the bill, the same shall be thereby admitted, and the chan
cellor shall give the same order or decree thereon, as if answer had
been ﬁled confessing the same, except in cases of infant defendants,
covert, idiots, or lunatics, and cases of divorce.
§ 59. It shall not be lawful to appoint a receiver in vacation.
§ 60. No special motion or application shall be heard or granted
in vacation, unless on proof that the opposite party, his or her agent
or attorney, if resuling Within the limits of the state, has had reasonable
notice, except applications for writs of injunction and no 01211
which may be made at any time, and without notice, as hereto
fore.
§ 61. The registers in chancery shall have power to order bills to
be taken as confessed, for the want of answers, in vacation, and t0
grant orders, in vacation, requiring publication to be made against
non-resident defendants.
§ 62. Guardians ad [item to minor defendants, residing within the
state, may be appointed, if the minor be fourteen years of age, with
the written consent of the minor and guardian, certiﬁed by a justice
of the peace ; if minor defendants be under fourteen years of e,
. . . . . _
reSiding Within the state, then the court may appomt any suitzgle
person who will consent to act as guardian ad [in-m ; and if minors
reside out of the state, of whatever age, publication shall be made as
in other cases, and on proof of publication, the court may appoint a
suitable person guardian ad litem.
§ 63. In cases in equity, where propert ' in litigation is liable to
be wasted, carried out of the jurisdiction 0 the court, or otherwise
disposed of, it shall be lawful for the chancellor or any circuit judge,i
in vacation or in term time, to order process to issue, requiring the
sheriff to take possession of said property, until the defendant, his
- . . . ,
agent or attorney in fact, give bond, With good security, to have said
property forthcoming, and to abide and perform the further order
and decree of the court, and if the defendant do not so give bond with
security, within ten days, then it shall be lawful for the sheriff to
deliver possession of the property to the complainant on his iving
the like bond : Provided, That before any such process shall ordered,
the complainant, his agent or attorney in fact, shall make
oath that the defendant is wasting or disposing of the property, or
carrying it out of the state, or threatens to do so; And provided,
also, :[ﬁlﬂt the complainant, his agent or attorney in fact, give bond,
with good security, to indemnify the defendant for all costs and dam
ages he may wrongfully sustain; And provided, The case presented
by the bill, in other respects, will warrant the interference of acourt
of equity.
§ 64. When an appeal or writ of error is taken to the supreme
court, from the decree of a chancellor, all further proceedings on said
decree shall be thereby suspended: Provided, The appellant or
plaintifff in error, give bond with security, as in cases of error to the
courts of law.
§ 2. Unless exceptions have been ﬁled to the report of the master, the same shall be conﬁrmed by the court after two days’ notice.
§ 66. Where it shall appear to the chancellor, either by inspection or other proof, that a party, either complainant or defendant, is
an idiot, or lunatic, or from imbecility of mind is incapable of managing his affairs, it shall be lawful for the chancellor to appoint al
guardian ad litem, though the party may not have been found an
idiot or lunatic by a regular commission or inquisition of lunacy.
§ 67. Nofeme covert shall ﬁle a bill for a divorce or other matter,
otherwise than by her next friend, except in cases where her husband has joined with her in the bill.
§ 68. The chancellors shall not be required to alternate, but may
hold courts for each other, at their option, and so much of the act
establishing separate courts of chancery, as requires the chancellors
.
to alternate, is hereby repealed.
§ 69. The tax of two dollars, now required by law to be taxed in
the bill of costs, on all suits in chancery, and to be assessed and col
at the same time, and in the same manner as other costs of
uits, shall be paid over to the respective registers of the chancery
courts, in which such suits may be instituted, instead of into the
county treasury, as now required by law.
§ 70. Of the money thus collected, there shall be paid to the sher
iﬂ's of the several counties in which chancery courts may be holden,
one dollar in each case, as his compensation for attending on said
courts whilst in session, and the balance of said costs shall be ap
plied, under the direction of the chancellors holding such courts, to
the procurement of such books and stationery, as may be needed by
the registers thereof.
§ 2. The chancellor of the southern division, or any other chan
eel or in this state, is hereby authorized to hold extra terms of the
chancery court, at Clayton, in Barbour county, and at Montgomery,
in Montgomery county, at such time as he may appoint: and he
shall cause thirty days’ previous notice thereof to be given by ad
vertisement in some paper published in lrwinton or in the town of
Montgomery: and subpmna to answer, or other chancery process,
may be returnable to such extra terms, under the same rules and
regulations, and with the same jurisdiction in the court, as though it
were a re ular term.
§ 72. henever it happens that a regular term of any chancery
_ _ ,
court, for any chancery district in this state, is not holden, or all the
business of any such regular term is not disposed of, an extra term
may be holden by such ofﬁcer, and on such notice as in ﬁrst sec
tion; and like process may be returnable to such extra term, with
like jurisdiction in the court, as in section ﬁrst is provided for the
extra terms in said ﬁrst section speciﬁed: Provided, That notice
may be published in the nearest neWspaper.

§ 73. It shall be lawful for any plaintiﬁ' or defendant in any suit
in chancery, in any of the circuit courts in this state, to change the
venue of such suit in chancery, where it shall appear to the court,
that the judge of the circuit, in which such suit in chancery is pend
has, at'any time previous to his appointment as judge, been
employed in the suit so pending, by either plaintifff or defendant, as
counsel in the said suit; or where it shall appear to the court, that
the judge of the circuit is connected to the parties interested in such
suit by afﬁnity or consanguinity.
§ 74. When a change of venue, under the provisions of this act,
shall be allowed for the reasons above set forth, the judge of the cir
where such suit is pending, shall, on application, change the
venue thereof to an adjoining circuit free from the like exceptions ;
and the clerk of the circuit court, where such suit was instituted,
shall transmit without delav, to the clerk of the circuit court to
_ . ~ .
which such suit may be changed, a full transcript of all orders, mo
tions, and records, entered on his books in relation to the suit so
pending, with all the original papers and proceedings in the case;
and all bonds and recognizances, and all other matters in relation to
the cause in controversy, shall be as valid,to all intents and purposes,
U
as they would have been, had such change of venue not been made
and the suit, so changed, shall be placed in the same situation in the
court to which it shall be changed, as if the same had been instituted
in said court.
§ 7. The decrees, orders, and other proceedings in_ the case, shall
be as binding on the parties concerned in such suit, as if the same
had been determined in the court where the suit originated, in every
respect whatever.
§ 2. No injunction shall be granted to stay an execution of 8
ju gment at law, unless the party, applying for such injunction, or
to be beneﬁted thereby, shall ﬁrst sign and seal a release of errors in
such judgment at law, and ﬁle the same in the oﬁice of the clerk of
the court, in which such judgment shall have been obtained; and
whenever an injunction shall be dissolved, damages after the rate
of six per centum shall be added to the amount of the judgment:
Provided, The court be of opinion that the injunction Was
obtained for delay. _
§ 77. Where any bill of injunction may be dissolved, on an inte
locutory order of the courts exercising chancery jurisdiction, and
said bill after such interlocutory order of dissolution, shall be set for
a hearing, it shall he the duty of the court, before whom such order’
of dissolution may be made, to require of the defendant or defendants
to such bill of injunction, bond and security, payable to the
complainant or complainants, in double the amount of the sum enjoined on the judgment at law, conditioned to refund the money, in
terest and costs, to the complainant or complainants, in the event of
said judgment at law being perpetually enjoined, on the ﬁnal hearing
of said bill of injunction.
§ 2. The bond and security taken as aforesaid, in the event of
sai bill of injunction bein perpetuated on the ﬁnal hearing, Shalls
have the force and effect 0? a judgment, and execution may issuej
thereon against the principal and security, as on forthcoming bonds
for the delivery of property on the day of sale : except that the decree shall be conclusive evidence of a forfeiture of any such bond;
and an endorsement on said bond, that the same is forfeited, shall not
be necessary.
§ 79. Every bond, executed for the purpose of obtaining an injunction, shall, on the dissolution of the said injunction, have the
force and effect of a judgment ; and it shall be lawful for the party
or parties, whose judgment may have been enjomed, to take out
execution a ainst all the obli ors in the bond, for the amount of the
judgment which shall have geen enjoined, together with lawful interest
thereon, and also the costs incurred in and about the said
chancery proceedings.
§ 80. Whenever any order shall be entered by a chancellor, dissolving an injunction, it shall be lawful for the complainant to take
an appeal from such order of dissolution to the supreme court ; and
whenever such appeal shall be taken to the supreme court, from the
order dissolving such injunction, it shall be heard and determined at}
the next term of the supreme court, in all cases whatsoever. '
§ 81. .]t_ shall not be lawful for registers in chancery to grant or
dissolve injunctions.
§ 82. It shall be lawful when an injunction has been granted, for
the defendant or defendants, in vacation, after having ﬁled an answer,
to present to the chancellor, within whose division the bill may be
. .
pending, a copy of the bill and answer or answers, and to apply for
a dissolution of the injunction, who shall act on such application, in
the same manner as now prescribed by law on similar applications
in court: Provided, That ten days’ notice be given of such intended
application, which notice may be given either to the complainant or
his solicitor.


