Section 4910. The "Code of Practice in Civil Cases " shall regulate the
procedure in all civil actions and proceedings in all the courts of this state,
though not expressly enumerated, and of all that may hereafter be created ; and
all laws coming within the purview of its provisions shall be repealed (a).
Civil Code, sees. 796 and 780.
(a) But as to justices' courts, see Secs. 4034, 4035. And see Secs. 6363, 5021.
SEC. 4911.
First.
Remedies in civil cases are divided into two classes:
Actions.
Second.
Special proceedings.
SEC. 4912. A civil action is an ordinary proceeding in a court of justice
by one party against another for the enforcement or protection of a private
right, or the redress or prevention of a private wrong. It may also be brought
for the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture.
SEC. 4913. Every other remedy in a civil case is a special proceeding
Civil Code, secs. 2-4, Preliminary Provisions.
SEC. 4914. The forms of all actions and suits heretofore existing are abol:
ished.
SEC. 4915.
There shall be but one form of action for the enforcement or protection of private rights, and the redress or prevention of private wrongs,
which shall be called a civil action.
SEC. 4916. In such action the party complaining shall be known as the
plaintifff, and the adverse party as the defendant.
SEC. 4917. The proceedings in a civil action may be of two kinds:
First.
Second.
At law.
In equity.
SEC. 4918. The plaintifff may prosecute his action by equitable proceedings
in all cases where courts of chancery, before the adoption of this code, had
jurisdiction, and must so proceed in all cases where such jurisdiction was ex
clusive.
SEC. 4919.
In all other cases the plaintifff must prosecute his action by proceedings at law.
SEc. 4920. An action upon a written obligation or judgment which has
been lost or destroyed may be prosecuted by proceedings at law. Civil Cod,
secs. 1–6.
SEC. 4921. No action to obtain a discovery shall be brought except as provided in the next section.
SEC. 4922. Where any person or corporation is liable, either jointly or se"erally with others, by the same contract, an action may be brought against any
of the parties who are liable to obtain discovery of the names and residences of
the others who are also liable.
SEc. 4923. In such action the plaintifff shall state in his complaint, in effect
that he has used due diligence, without success, to obtain the information asked
to be discovered, and that he does not believe the parties to the contract who are known to him have property sufficient to satisfy his claims. The co"
plaint shall be verified, and the cost of such action shall be paid by
the plaintifff, unless the discovery be resisted. Ib, sec. 788.
SEC. 4924. The writ of ne exeat as a remedy in a civil action is abolished.
Ib., sec. 790.
Sec. 4925. An error of the plaintifff as to the kind of proceedings adopted
shall not cause the abatement or dismissal of the action, but merely a change
into the proper proceedings by an amendment in the pleadings and a transfer
of the action to the proper docket (aa).
SEC. 4926. The error mentioned in the last section may be corrected by the
plaintifff without motion at any time before the defendant has answered, or
afterward, on motion in court.
Sec. 4927. Such error is waived by failure to move for its correction at the
time and in the manner prescribed in this chapter, and all errors in the decis
ions of the court on any of the motions named in this chapter are waived un
less excepted to at the time, which may be done by the clerk noting at the end
of such decision words of the following import : " To which decision the plaintifff
(or defendant) excepts" (b).
Sec. 4928. The defendant shall be entitled to have the correction made in
the following cases :
First. When the action has been commenced by equitable proceedings the
defendant, by motion made at the time of riling his answer, may have them
changed into proceedings at law when it appears that, by the provisions of sec
tion 4919, the plaintifff should have adopted proceedings at law, unless his an
swer presents an equitable defense.
Second. When the action has been commenced by proceedings at law the
defendant, by motion made at or before the time of filing his answer, may have
them changed into equitable proceedings when it appears that, by the provis
ions of section 4918, the plaintifff should have adopted proceedings in equity.
SEC. 4929. Where the action has been properly commenced by proceedings
at law, either party shall have the right, by motion, to have any issue which
heretofore was exclusively cognizable in chancery tried in the manner herein
after prescribed in cases of equitable proceedings (*) ; and if all the issues are
such as heretofore were cognizable in chancery, though none were exclusively
so, the defendant shall have the right to have them all tried as in cases of pro
ceedings in equity.
SEC. 4930. If the plaintifff's claim is for money due by contract, and the
defendant puts in a defense of exclusively equitable cognizance, upon the
plaintifff filing an affidavit that he verily believes that he will succeed in
the action, and that the collection of his claim after judgment will be endan
gered by the delay arising from such defense being put in, the court shall
require the defendant to give security for the payment of any judgment that
(aa) See Sec. 4928.
Where there is an equitable issue in a suit at law, and there is no motion to transfer, the Issue must be
disposed of according to the principles involved. Trulock v. Taylor, 26—54.
Purely equitable relief can not be granted in a suit properly brought at law. Little Sock Railroad Co. v.
Perry, 37—185.
Objection that suit should have been brought at law can not be raised by demurrer. Ib. Equitable relief
can not be granted on an application for mandamus unless the pleading Is reformed and the cause transferred.
Crawford v. Carton, 35—565. The court Is not bound to make the transfer unless asked. Berry v. Hardin, 28—458.
And if no motion is made the objection is waived. Mow v. Adams, 32—562 ; Talbot v. WUkim, 31—411. A mere
transfer to the equity side does not make the cause one of equitable relief. Roberte v. Jacks, 31—598. When
an equitable answer asks relief the cause should be transferred. Ivey v. Drake, 36—228.
(b) For time and manner of taking exceptions, see 8ecs. 5157-5161.
An error in sustaining a demurrer to part of an answer is not waived because not excepted to on the record.
Cotlim v. Karatopsky, 36—323.
(*) See Sec. 5106.
the plaintifff may obtain in the action, and, upon his failure to give such secu.
rity, shall order the defendant to pay into court an amount sufficient to dis.
charge the plaintifff's claim and his probable costs; upon which order execution
may be issued as upon a judgment, and the amount collected upon execution
shall be brought into court and await the decision of the action, and be paid
to the plaintifff or defendant, according to such decision. But no security shall
be required if the trial of the equitable defense takes place during the term at
which it is put in, nor until all defenses to the action, other than those of
equitable cognizance, are tried or disposed of in favor of the plaintifff.
SEC. 4931. The provisions of this chapter concerning the prosecution of a
civil action apply to both kinds of proceedings, unless the contrary appears.
SEC. 4932. A judgment obtained in an action by proceedings at law shall
not be annulled or modified by any order in any action by equitable proceed.
ings, except for a defense which has arisen or been discovered since the judg:
ment was rendered; but such judgment does not prevent the recovery of any
claim, though such claim might have been used as a defense by way of set-off
or counterclaim in the action on which the judgment was recovered (c). Ib,
secs. 7–14.
SEC. 4933.
Every action must be prosecuted in the name of the real party in interest, except as provided in sections 4935, 4936 and 4938 (d).
SEC. 4934. Where the assignment of a thing in action is not authorized by statute, the assignor must be a party, as plaintifff or defendant.
SEc. 4935. Where the right of the plaintifff is transferred or assigned dur.
ing the pendency of the action, it may be continued in his name, or the court may allow the person to whom the transfer or assignment is made to be substi.
tuted in the action, proper orders being made as to security for the costs.
SEC. 4936. An executor, administrator, guardian, trustee of an express trust, a person with whom, or in whose name, a contract is made for the benefit
of another, or the state, or any officer thereof, or any person expressly authorized by the statute to do so, may bring an action without joining with him the
person for whose benefit it is prosecuted (e). Ib., secs. 25–28.
SEC. 4937. Administrators and executors appointed in any of the states,
territories or districts of the United States, under the laws thereof, may sue in any of the courts of this state, in their representative capacity, to the same and
(c) A party suing on a claim that might have been set off in a former suit recovers no costs. See SEC. 5039,
(d) The state may sue on a bond given to a county school commissioner. Williams v. State, 37-464, In
suits by an administrator involving title to land, the heirs must be joined. Sisk v. Almon, 34–391; Theurer."
Brogan, 41–88. A county treasurer may sue a collector on his bond. Haynes v. Butler, 30–69. Defect of P*
ties is waived by going to trial without objection.

Yonley v. Thompson, 30–399.

In a suit on a bond to A and B, both obligees should be joined, though the money sued for is going to *
only. McLeod v. Scott, 38–76.
Partners in a mill on an imperfected homestead entry of one of them may join in a suit for tre"pass on the land. Hot Springs R. R. v. Tyler, 36–205. In a suit to foreclose a mortgage on land, the hel"
of a deceased mortgagor are necessary parties. Simms v. Richardson, 32–297, And so in a suit by him relating
to title to lands. Anderson v. Partce, 33-665. The administrator of a deceased legatee, and not his heirs,
should sue to set aside settlement of administrator of his testator's estate; and so in a suit relating to perso"

alty of the estate, or to have lands bright with the money of the estate declared to be held in trust for it; bu"
the heirs may sue for lands descended to them from the devisee, Collins v. Warner, 32–87.
(e) As to counties, see Sec. 1067.
like effect as if such administrators and executors had been qualified under the
laws of this state (f ). Act Feb. 1, 1843.
Sec. 4938. All actions and suits for the recovery of the purchase money of
lands which have at any time, and from time to time, been granted to this state
by the United States, or may hereafter be granted, for any and all purposes,
except such grants as have been or may hereafter be made for railroad purposes,
and all actions to enforce the vendor's lien upon any such lands, and all actions
to recover the possession of, or for trespasses upon, any such lands, shall be
brought and prosecuted in the name of the State of Arkansas ; and the fact
that any and all of said lands may have been set apart, or allotted, or granted,
by the state to any county, township or school district shall not be a defense
to any action brought under this section, and shall not affect the jurisdiction
of the court in which the action may be pending, but all questions as to the
rights of such counties, townships or school districts shall be reserved, and
shall not be affected by any proceeding under section 4936.
SEC. 4939. All persons having an interest in the subject of an action, and
in obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined as plaintifffs, except where it
is otherwise provided (g).
SEC. 4940. Any person may be made a defendant who has, or claims, an
interest in the controversy adverse to the plaintifff, or who is a necessary party
to a complete determination and settlement of the questions involved in the
action (h).
SEC. 4941. Of the parties to the action, those who are united in interest
must be joined as plaintifffs or defendants; but when, for any cause, it may be
necessary, for the purpose of justice, a person who should have been joined as
plaintifff may be made a defendant, the reason therefore being stated in the
complaint.
SEC. 4942. Where the question is one of a common or general interest of
many persons, or where the parties are numerous, and it is impracticable to
bring them all before the court within a reasonable time, one or more may sue
or defend for the benefit of all.
SEC. 4943. Persons severally liable upon the same contract, including
parties to bills of exchange, promissory notes, common orders and checks, and
sureties on the same or separate instruments, may all, or any of them, or the
representatives of such as may have died, be included in the same action, at
the plaintifff's option (i).
SEC. 4944. Where two or more persons are jointly bound by contract, the
action thereon may be brought against all or any of them, at the plaintifff's
(f) As to foreign guardians, SEC. Sec. 3522.
(g) In a suit charging fraud in the accounts of an administrator, his sureties may be made defendants.
Reinliardt v. Uartrell, 33—727. In ejectment for mortgaged lands and for rents by the mortgagee, the adminis
trator is not a necessary party. Simms v. Ru-hard#on, 32—304. In a foreclosure suit, a seuior mortgagee need
not be made a party. White v. Hotman, I b., 753. In a suit involving the validity of a will, all legatees are
necessary parties. Janes v. Williams, 31—175. In a suit to subject assets descended, the heir is the only neces
sary party. Williams v. Ewing, lb., 229. One or more parties to a contract may be sued. Bradford v. Toncy,
30—763. Iu equity, all persons interested in the subject-matter should be made parties. Holland v. Burris,
28—171 ; Taliaferro v. Burnett, 37—517.
(h) Misjoinder of defendants no ground of demurrer. Fry v. Street, 37—42. Nor for arrest of judgment.
Little Rock Railroad Co. v. Dyer, 35—3G3. Nor can it be taken advantage of at the trial. Hot Springs Railroad
Co. v. Tyler, 36—205. As to parties to a suit to annul a fraudulent conveyance, see Hunt v. Weiner, 39—70 ; Littcll
v. Craciy.HK—584.
(II Sec, a-, to parties to bills nud notes, Sec. 4.S2. As to when judgment may be rendered against part of
defendants, see skcs. 5165, 6167.
option (j). Where any of the persons so bound are dead, the action may be
brought against any or all of the survivors, with the representatives of all or
any of the decedents (k), or against the latter or any of them. Where all the
persons so bound are dead, the action may be brought against the representa
tives of all, or of any of them. An action or judgment against any one or
more of several persons jointly bound shall not be a bar to proceedings
against the other.
New Parties—Interpleader.
Sec. 4945. The court may determine any controversy between parties
before it, when it can be done without prejudice to the rights of others, or by
saving their rights. But when a determination of the controversy between the
parties before the court can not be made without the presence of other parties,
the court must order them to be brought in (1).
Sec. 4946. Where, in an action for the recovery of real or personal prop
erty, any person having an interest in the property applies to be made a party,
the court may order it to be done (m). Civil Code, sees. 29-37.
Sec. 4947. Upon affidavit of a defendant, before answer in any action
upon contract or for the recovery of personal property, that some third party,
without collusion with him, has or makes a claim to the subject of the action,
and that he is ready to pay or dispose thereof, as the court may direct, the
court may make an order for the safe-keeping, or for the payment or deposit in
court, or delivery of the subject of the action to such person as it may direct,
and an order requiring such third party to appear in a reasonable time and
maintain or relinquish his claim against the defendant, and in the meantime
stay the proceedings. Ib., sec. 38, as amended by act Nov. 30, 1875.
Sec. 4948. If such third party, being served with a copy of the order, fail
to appear, the court may declare him barred of all claim in respect to the sub
ject of the action against the defendant therein. If he appear, he shall be
allowed to make himself defendant in the action, in lieu of the original defend
ant, who shall be discharged from all liability to either of the other parties, in
respect to the subject of the action, upon his compliance with the order of the
court for the payment, deposit or delivery thereof.
Sec. 4949. The provisions of the last two preceding sections shall be appli
cable to an action brought against a sheriff, or other officer, for the recovery of
personal property taken by him under an execution, or for the proceeds of
such property so taken and sold by him; and the defendant in any such action
shall be entitled to the benefit of such provisions against the party in whose
favor the execution issued, upon exhibiting to the court the process under
which he acted, with his affidavit that the property, for the recovery of which,
or its proceeds, the action was brought, was taken under such process.
Sec. 4950. In an action against a sheriff, or other officer, for the recovery
(j) Joint obligations are taken as joint and several, and survive. Sbcs. 3899, .1900.
(k) To the same effect, see Sec. 3901 .
(1) See Theurer v. Brogan, 41—88. Defendants in ejectment can not require persons not in possession at
beginning of suit to be made parties. Simms v. Mchardson, 31—304. Plaintiff may amend by making new
parties. Benjamin v. Loughborough, 31—210.
(m) When tenant is sued In ejectment, his lessor may be made a party. Jackson v. Allen, 30—111. But one
claiming independently of both parties can not intervene. Files v. Watt, 28—151. One made a party at his
own instance can not demur to the complaint. Wright v. Walker, 30—44. When assignee pendeiU4 lite may b*
made a party, lrey v. Drake, 3U—228.
of property taken under an execution, the court may, upon the application of
the defendant, and of the party in whose favor the execution issued, permit
the latter to be substituted as the defendant, security for the costs being
given (n). Ib., sees. 38-40.
Married Women.
Sec. 4951. Where a married woman is a party, her husband must be joined
with her, except in the following cases:
First. She may be sued alone upon contracts made by her in respect to her
sole and separate property, or in respect to any trade or business carried on by
her under any statute of this state. Ib., sec. 42, and act April 28, 1873, sees. 4
and 8.
»
Second. She may maintain an action in her own name for or on account of
her sole or separate estate or property, or for damages against any person or
body corporate for any injury to her person, character or property. Act April
28, 1873, sec. 9.
Third. Where the action is between herself and her husband, she may sue
and be sued alone (o). Civil Code, sec. 42.
SEC. 4952. If a husband and wife are sued together, the wife may defend
for her own right; and if the husband neglects to defend, for his also.
SEC. 4953. Where a husband, being a father, has deserted his family, the
wife, being a mother, may prosecute or defend in his name any action which
he might have prosecuted or defended, and shall have the same powers and
rights therein as he might have had.
SEC. 4954. When a female party to an action marries, the fact being stated
upon the record, the husband may be made a party with his wife, and the
action shall proceed.
Infants.
SEC. 4955. The action of an infant must be brought by his guardian or his
next friend. Any person may bring the action of an infant as his next friend;
but the court has power to dismiss it, if it is not for the benefit of the infant, or
to substitute the guardian of the infant, or another person, as the next friend.
SEC. 4956. The guardian or next friend is liable for the costs of the action
brought by him, and where he is insolvent, and it is made to appear that the
action is malicious, or that the next friend was selected because of his insolv
ency, the court, in its discretion, may require him to give security for the costs.
SEC. 4957. The defense of an infant must be by his regular guardian, or by
a guardian appointed to defend for him, where no regular guardian appears, or
where the court directs a defense by a guardian appointed for that purpose.
No judgment can be rendered against an infant until after a defense by a
guardian (p).
(n) This power is discretionary. Furgeton v. Khrenberg, 39—121.
(o) She may sue alone for tier separate property. Berlin v. Control, 33—611. And on a note which is her
separate property. Heavers v. Baucum, Ib., I'll. And for her lands. Cairo R. R. Co. v. Parks. 32—182.
(p) An attorney ad litem should not be appointed for an infant. Hodgis r. Frazier, 31—is ; Williams v.
Firing, Ib., 229.
The defense of the guardian must be not merely formal, but real and earnest ; he should put in issue and
require proof of every material allegation to the imam s prejudice, whether it be true er not, and make n«
concessions on his own knowledge. Pinchbaek v. Oravet, 42—222. See Sec. 5042; Moore v. Wooddt, 40—42;
Freeman r. Jfv*»»" lb., M.
SEc. 4958. The guardian to defend shall be appointed by the court, or by
the judge thereof. The appointment can not be made until after service of
the summons in the action (f). No party or attorney in an action can be appointed guardian to defend therein for an infant or person of unsound
mind.
During the tion of their courts, the clerks of circuit and chancery
power of appointing guardians ad litem for infant

*:
defendants who have been summoned in the action that their respective courts
courts shall have

or the judges thereof have; but the court or judge shall have power to change
the guardians so appointed, by appointing others in their stead, whenever the
interests of the infant require such a change. The clerk shall indorse the name
of the guardian and the date of his appointment upon the complaint. Ib,
secs. 43–49.
SEC. 4959. The appointment may be made upon the application of the
infant, if he is of the age of fourteen years, and applies within twenty days after the service of the summons. If he is under the age of fourteen years, or
does not so apply, the appointment may be made upon the application of any
friend of the infant, or on that of the plaintifff in the action (£). Ib, sec. 50,
as amended 1871.
SEc. 4960. The action of a person judicially found to be of unsound mind
must be brought by his guardian, or, if he has none, by his next friend. When
brought by his next friend, the action is subject to the power of the court, in
the same manner as the action of an infant so brought.
SEc. 4961. The guardian or next friend is liable for the costs, and the
court, in its discretion, may require him to give security for costs.
SEC. 4962. The defense of an action against a person judicially found to
be of unsound mind must be by his regular guardian, or a guardian appointed by the court to defend for him, where no regular guardian appears, or where
the court directs a defense by a guardian. No judgment can be rendered
against him until after a defense by his guardian, or by a guardian appointed
for that purpose. No appointment can be made until after service of the sum
mOIlS.
SEC. 4963. The guardian to defend may be appointed on the application
of any friend of the defendant, or on that of the plaintifff.
SEc. 4964. Where a party is judicially found to be of unsound mind
during the pendency of an action, the fact being stated on the record, if he is
plaintifff, his guardian may be joined with him in the action as such. If he is
defendant, the plaintifff may, upon ten days' notice thereof to his guardian,
have an order making the guardian a defendant, also.
SEC. 4965. No judgment can be rendered against a prisoner in the peniten
tiary until after a defense made for him by his attorney, or, if there is none, by
a person appointed by the court to defend for him.
SEc. 4966. A guardian or attorney, appointed on the application of the plaintifff to defend for an infant, person of unsound mind, or prisoner, shall be
(t) see Freeman v. Russell, 40-56.
(!) where the number and names of infant heirs are unknown, a guardian ad litem can not be appointed
for them.
Kountz v. Davis, 34-390.
allowed a reasonable fee for his services, to be paid by the plaintifff, and taxed
in the costs.
SEC. 4967. A civil action is commenced by filing in the office of the clerk
of the proper court a complaint and causing a summons to be issued thereon.
Summons (*).
SEC. 4968. The summons shall be directed to the sheriff of the county, ahd
command him to summon the defendant or defendants named therein to
answer the complaint filed by the plaintifff, giving his name, at the time stated
therein, under the penalty of the complaint being taken for confessed, or of the
defendant being proceeded against for contempt of court on his failure to do so.
The summons shall be dated the day it is issued, and signed by the clerk.
SEC. 4969. A summons shall be issued at any time, to any county, against
any one or more of the defendants, at the plaintifff's request. But a summons
not served shall not be taxed in the costs, unless otherwise ordered by the
court.
Sec. 4970. With every summons, the clerk shall issue as many copies
thereof as there are defendants named therein, unless otherwise ordered by the
plaintifff.
Sec. 4971. In actions by proceedings at law, the time fixed in the sum
mons for the defendant to answer shall be the day the summons is returnable;
in actions by equitable proceedings, it shall be twenty days after the service of
the summons.
SEC. 4972. The summons shall be made returnable the first day of the
next term of the court, unless the term begins within ten days from the date
of the summons, when- it shall be returnable the first day of the term fol
lowing.
Sec. 4973. The summons and copies shall be delivered to the sheriff or
other officer authorized to execute it.
Sec. 4974. It shall be the duty of the sheriff, or one of his deputies, to
attend at the clerk's office daily (Sundays excepted), to receive any process that
may be issued, and the clerk shall deliver to him any process remaining in his
office. Ib., eecs. 51-65.
Service of Summons.
Sec. 4975. The summons may be served :
First. By the officer to whom it is directed, unless he is a party to the suit,
or unless the plaintifff, or his agent or attorney, files with the clerk an affidavit
to the effect that the obtaining of a sheriff or deputy to serve the summons will
occasion such delay as to render it probable that the same can not be served in
time ; in which case the summons may be served by a jailer, coroner or con
stable. Provided, that the clerk shall indorse upon such summons, that the
(*) A summons Is not subject to demurrer. If so fatally defective as not to be amendable, It may be
quashed on motion. Flyrm v. Stale, 42—315.
same may be served by such officer, and the return of such officer shall be evi.
dence of the service to the same extent as if made by the sheriff
Second. By any person appointed by the officer to whom the same is
directed, by an indorsement on the summons, whose affidavit, indorsed thereon,
shall be proof of the time and manner of service.
Third. By any person not a party to the action, in all actions arising on
contract for the recovery of money only, whose affidavit, indorsed thereon, shall
be proof of the time and manner of service (q).
SEC. 4976.
The service shall be:
First. By delivering to the defendant a copy of the summons; or,
Second. If he refuses to receive it, by offering a copy thereof to him; or,
Third. By leaving a copy of such summons at the usual place of abode of
the defendant, with some person who is a member of his family over the age of
fifteen years. Ib., secs. 65 and 66, as amended 1871 (r).
SEC. 4977. The return of service upon a summons must state the time and
manner of service (s); and, if a return of service by an officer is defective, he
may be fined by the court, not exceeding ten dollars, and shall be liable to any
person aggrieved by such defect. But the court may permit an amendment,
according to the truth of the case.
SEC. 4978. Service may be acknowledged by the defendant by an indorse
ment upon the summons, signed and dated by him, and attested by a witness.
The affidavit of the witness shall be proof of the service. Ib., secs. 67 and 68.
SEC. 4979. Where the defendant is a corporation, created by the laws of
this state, the service of the summons may be upon the president, mayor or
chairman of the board of trustees, and, in case of the absence of the above officers, then it may be served upon the cashier, treasurer, secretary, clerk or
agent of such corporation, and, in case of railroad corporations, upon any station agent, or upon any person who has control of any of the business of said
corporation, either as clerk, agent or otherwise, who, as such agent or clerk, has
to report to the corporation who employed them; and, in cases of railroad corporations, a service of a copy of the summons upon the clerk or agent of any
station in the county where the same shall be issued shall be deemed and considered as a good and valid service. Ib., sec. 69, as amended by act March 9, 1877.
SEC. 4980. Where the defendant is an incorporated bank, and the action
is in a county in which there is a branch thereof, the service may be upon the
president or cashier of that branch.
SEC. 4981.
Where the defendant is an incorporated insurance company, and the action is in a county in which there is an agency thereof, the service
may be upon the chief officer of such agency (t),
(q) Sheriffs must indorse time of receiving all process. SEC. 6329. And state at length the time, place
and mode of service. SECs. 4977, 5316. When process may issue and be executed on holidays. SECs. 530%
5312.
An appearance is a waiver of a defective return. Martin v. Godwin, 34–682. And of defective service.
St. Louis Railway Co. v. Barnes, 35-95.
(r) Return need not follow the exact language of the statute. Duval v. Johnson, 39–191. “At the resi.
dence" is equivalent to “The usual place of abode.” Ib. But service on defendant's wife must show that
she was over fifteen years old.
Barnett v. State, 35–501.
(s) The clerk must note on his docket the date of service. Sec. 551. As to sheriff's return, see Sr".
3.316.
(t) As to foreign insurance companies, see SEC. 3834.
Sec. 4982. Where the defendant is a foreign corporation, having an agent
in this state, the service may be upon such agent.
Sec. 4983. Where the defendant is an infant under the age of fourteen
years, the service must be upon him, and upon his father or guardian, or, if
neither of these can be found, then upon his mother, or upon any other person
having the care or control of the infant, or with whom he lives. Where the
infant is over fourteen years of age, service on him shall be sufficient.
Sec. 4984. Where the defendant is a person judicially found to be of unsound mind, the service must be upon him and upon his guardian; if there is
no guardian, upon his wife, or the person having the care of him, or with whom
he lives, or the keeper of the asylum in which he may be confined.
SEC. 4985. Where the defendant is a prisoner in the penitentiary, a copy of
the complaint must accompany the summons, and the service must be upon
the keeper of the penitentiary, who shall deliver the copies of the complaint
and summons to the defendant. And a copy of the summons must also be delivered to the wife of the prisoner, or, if he has no wife, left at the place where
he resided, or claimed to reside, prior to his confinement, with some person of
the age of sixteen years.
Sec. 4986. When any action to recover judgment against the owners or
officers of any steamboat, or vessel, or other water-craft, for any debt or liability
created by them, or either of them, shall have been commenced in any county
in which said steamboat, vessel or water-craft was found, and, from any cause,
the summons or other process can not be served in such action in the county
where such action was commenced, a service in any other county in this state ■
shall have the same effect as if made in the county where the action was brought.
Sec. 4987. Where a defendant is out of this state, the plaintifff may take a
copy of the complaint, certified by the clerk, with a summons annexed thereto,
warning such defendant to appear and answer the complaint within sixty days
after the sa'me shall have been served on him, and cause a copy thereof to be
delivered to such defendant anywhere in the United States by some person to
whom he is personally known. Proof of the delivery shall be made by the
affidavit of the person making it, indorsed on or annexed to the certified copy
and summons, in which the time and place of the delivery, and the fact that
the defendant was personally known to the affiant, shall be stated. The officer
before whom the affidavit is made shall certify that the affiant is personally
known to him to be worthy of credit.
Sec. 4988. The certified copy and summons, with the affidavit and certifi
cate, as provided in the last section, being returned and filed in the action, shall
be deemed an actual service of the summons in due time for trial at the first
term commencing not less than sixty days after such service.
Constructive Service
SEC. 4989. Where it appears by the affidavit of the plaintifff, filed in the
clerk's office at or after the commencement of the action, that the defendant is:
First. A foreign corporation, having no agent in this state; or,
Second. A non-resident of this state; or,
Third, Has departed from this state, with intent to delay or defraud his
creditors; or,
Fourth.
Has been absent from this state four months; or,
Fifth. Has left the county of his residence to avoid the service of a sum.
mons; or,
Sixth. Conceals himself so that a summons can not be served upon him; or,
Where either of the last two mentioned facts is stated in the return by the
proper officer of a summons against the defendant, the clerk shall make upon
the complaint an order warning such defendant to appear in the action within
thirty days from the time of making the order. Civil Code, secs. 70–79.
SEC. 4990. The court may make the warning order upon the requisite facts
being satisfactorily shown by affidavit or other proof. Warning orders shall
be published weekly for at least four weeks (u).
Ib., sec. 80, as amended 1871.
SEC. 4991. Where, in an action against the heirs of a deceased person as
unknown heirs, or against other persons made defendants as unknown owners of any property to be divided or disposed of in the action, it appears by the
complaint that the names of such heirs, or any of them, or of such other per
sons are unknown to the plaintifff, a warning order, as directed in the last Sec.tion, shall be made by the clerk against such unknown heirs or owners.
SEC. 4992. A defendant against whom a warning order has been made and
published shall be deemed to have been constructively summoned on the thir.
tieth day after the making of the order, and the action may proceed accord.
ingly (v).
SEc. 4993. The plaintifff may, at any time before judgment, have a sum.mons served on the defendant, if found in this state, although a warning order
may have been previously entered against him, and after such service the case :
shall proceed as in other cases of actual service.
SEC. 4994. Actions for the following causes must be brought in the county
in which the subject of the action, or some part thereof, is situated:
First. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate or interest therein.
Second. - For the partition of real property.
Third. For the sale of real property under a mortgage, lien or other incum.
brance or charge.
Fourth. For an injury to real property (w).
SEC. 4995. Actions for the following causes must be brought in the county
where the cause, or some part thereof, arose:
First. An action for the recovery of a fine, penalty or forfeiture imposed by
a statute, except that where the offense for which the claim is made was com"
mitted on a water-course or road which is the boundary of two counties, the
action may be brought in either of them.
Second. An action against a public officer for an act done by him in virtue
or under color of his office, or for a neglect of official duty.
Third. An action upon the official bond of a public officer, except as pro
vided in section 5006.
(u) For law as to publication of legal notices, see chap. 94; Pillow v. Sentelle, 39-64.
As to sufficiency of warning orders, see Williams v. Ewing, 31–229. The statute must be strictly complied
with.
Lawrence v. State, 30-719.
(v) For proceedings against parties constructively summoned, see SEC's 5188—5:0:.
(w) Consent can not give jurisdiction to a suit in another county. Jacks v. More, 3:--31.
Sec. 4996. An action to establish or set aside a will must be brought in
the county in which the will, if valid, ought, according to law, to be recorded.
Sec. 4997. An action to settle the estate of a deceased person must be
brought in the county in which his personal representative was qualified.
SEC. 4998. An action for the distribution of the estate of a deceased person,
or for its partition among his heirs, or for the sale of real property (x), must be
brought in the county in which his personal representative was qualified.
SEC. 4999. An action by a ward against his guardian for a settlement of his
accounts, for additional security, or for his removal, must be brought in the
county in which the guardian was qualified. Ib., sees. 81-89.
SEC. 5000. The following actions must be brought in the county in which
the seat of government is situated: All actions now authorized by law to be
brought in the Pulaski Chancery Court (y). Ib., sec. 90, as amended 1871.
SEC. 5001. An action, other than one of those mentioned in sections 4994,
4995, 5000, against a person confined in the penitentiary or a lunatic asylum
must be brought in the county in which he resided, or claimed his residence,
prior to his confinement.
SEC. 5002. An action, other than those mentioned in sections 4994, 4995,
5000, against a corporation created by the laws of this state may be brought in
the county in which it is situated or has its principal office or place of busi
ness, or in which its chief officer resides; but, if such corporation is a bank or
insurance company, the action may be brought in the county in which there is
a branch of the bank or agency of the company, where it arises out of a trans
action of such branch or agency.
Sec. 5003. A n action against a railroad company, or an owner of a line of
mail-stages or other coaches, for an injury to person or property upon the road
or line of stages or coaches of the defendant, or upon a liability as a carrier, may
be brought in any county through or into which the road or line of stages or
coaches of the defendant upon which the. cause of action arose passes.
Sec. 5004. An action, other than one of those mentioned in sections 4994,
4995, 5000, against a turnpike-road company may be brought in any county in
which any part of the road of the defendant lies.
SEC. 5005. An action, other than one of those mentioned in sections 4994,
4995, 5000, against a non-resident of this state, or a foreign corporation, may be
brought in any county in which there may be property of or debts owing to
the defendant (z). Ib., sees. 91, 95.
SEC. 5006. All actions for debts due the State of Arkansas, and all actions
in favor of any state officer, state board or commissioner, in their official capa
city, and all actions which are authorized by law to be brought in the name of
the state, and all actions against such board or commissioner or state officer, for
or on account of any official act done or omitted to be done, shall be brought and
prosecuted in the county where the defendant resides. Provided, that this sec
tion shall not affect suits authorized by law to be brought in the Pulaski Chan
cery Court (aa). Ib., sec. 484, as amended 1871.
(x) See SEC8. 158, 163, 171, 188.
(y) For actions authorized to be brought In that court, see Skc. 5410.
(z) Actions in which attachments may be sued out may be prosecuted in any county in which property
may be attached. Sec. 316.
(aa) See Sec. 5410.
SEC. 5007.
Every other action may be brought in any county in which the defendant, or one of several defendants, resides, or is summoned (bb).
SEC. 5008. Where any action embraced in the preceding section is against
a single defendant, the plaintifff shall not be entitled to judgment against him
on the service of a summons in any other county than that in which the action is brought, unless he resided in that county at the commencement of the
action, or unless, having appeared therein, he fails to object, before the trial, to
its proceeding against him.
SEC. 5009. Where any action embraced in section 5007 is against several
defendants, the plaintifff shall not be entitled to judgment against any of
them on the service of a summons in any other county than that in which the
action is brought, where no one of the defendants is summoned in that county
or resided therein at the commencement of the action, or where, if any of
them resided, or were summoned in that county, the action is discontinued or
dismissed as to them, or judgment therein is rendered in their favor, unless the defendant summoned in another county, having appeared in the action, failed
to object before the judgment to its proceeding against him.
SEC. 5010.
The objection that one of several defendants was summoned in another county, if he appears, shall be deemed to be waived, unless it is made
before judgment as to him.
SEC. 5011. If, after the commencement of an action in the county of the
defendant's residence, he removes therefrom, the service of a summons upon him in any other county shall have the same effect as if it had been made in
the county from which he removed. Ib., sec. 96–100.
SEC. 5012. Any action required by law to be brought in the name of the state against any corporation, or to vacate or repeal any charter, may be
brought in any county in the state before any court having jurisdiction of
such action.
SEc. 5013. Service of process in any such action may be made in any county in the state upon any defendant to such action in like manner as is
now or may hereafter be provided by law in other cases, and any such defend.
ant shall be required to appear and defend such action in the county where the
same may be commenced. Act Nov. 8, 1875.
SEC. 5014. Several causes of action may be united in the same complaint,
where each affects all the parties to the action, may be brought in the same county, be prosecuted by the same kind of proceedings, and all belong to one
of the following classes:
First. Claims arising out of contract, express or implied.
Second. Claims for the recovery of specific real property, and the rents,
profits and damages for withholding the same.
Third. Claims for the recovery of specific personal property, and damages
for the taking or withholding the same.
Fourth. Claims for partition of real or personal property, or both.
Fifth. Claims arising from injuries to character.
(bb) An action for divorce shall be brought “in the county where the complainant resides.” SEC. 2558,
A witness is not liable to be sued in a county in which he does not reside. SEC. 2893.
Sixth. Claims arising from injuries to person and property.
Seventh. Claims against a trustee by virtue of a contract or by operation
of law (cc).
SEC. 5015. The plaintifff may strike from his complaint any cause of
action, at any time before the final submission of the case to the jury or to
the court, where the trial is by the court.
Sec. 5016. The court at any time before the defense shall, on motion of
the defendant, strike out of the complaint any cause, or causes of action,
improperly joined with others (dd).
Sec. 5017. All objections to the misjoinder of causes of action shall be
deemed to be waived, unless made as provided in the last section ; and all
errors in the decisions of the court thereon are waived, unless excepted to at
the time. Ib., sees. 101-104.
SEC. 5018. Whenever several suits shall be pending in the same court by
the same plaintifff against the same defendant, for causes of action which may
be joined, or where several suits are pending in the same court by the same
plaintifff against several defendants, which may be joined, the court in which
the same may be prosecuted may, in its discretion, order such suits to be con
solidated into one action (ee).
SEC. 5019. When any plaintifff shall bring in the same court several suits
against the same defendant or defendants, for causes of action that may be
joined, the plaintifff shall recover only the costs of one action ; and the costs of
the other actions shall be adjudged against him, unless sufficient reason appear
to the court for bringing several actions. Rev. Stat., chap. 116. sees. 132, 133.
SEC. 5020. The pleadings are the written statements, by the parties, of the
facts constituting their respective claims and defenses.
SEC. 5021. The forms of pleadings in civil actions and suits heretofore
existing are abolished ; and hereafter the forms of pleadings in civil actions,
and the rules by which their sufficiency is to be determined, are those pre
scribed in the code.
SEC. 5022. The only pleadings allowed are :
First. The complaint by the plaintifff.
Second. The demurrer, or answer, by the defendant.
Third. The demurrer, or reply, by the plaintifff.
SEC. 5023. A defepdant may file a cross-complaint against persons other
than the plaintifff, and have proceedings thereon, as follows :
First. When a defendant has a cause of action against a co-defendant, or a
person not a party to the action, and affecting the subject-matter of the action,
(cc) Former actions of case and trespass may be joined. Chrlmtan v. Carney, 33—316. In a suit to enforce
a mechanic's lien, plaintifff may have a judgment in personam. Brugman v. McQuire, 32—733.
(dd) Multifariousness no ground of demurrer. Clements v. Lumkin, 34—598. If there Is no motion to
strike out, the error Is waived. Tenryv. Rozett, 32—195; Riley v. Korman, 39—158. A paragraph In a complaint
introducing an unnecessary party may be stricken out. Lyman v. Corwin, 27—582.
(ee) Lindsay v. Waykmd, 17—385.
he may make his answer a cross-complaint against the co-defendant or other
person.
Second. The defendant to such cross-complaint may be actually or , con
structively summoned, and defense thereto shall be made in the time and
manner prescribed in regard to the original complaint, and with the same
rights of obtaining provisional remedies applicable to the case.
Third. The filing and prosecution of the cross-complaint shall not delay
the trial and decision of the original action when a judgment can be rendered
therein that will not prejudice the rights of the parties to the cross-complaint.
Civil Code, sees. 105-108 (ff).
Issues.
Sec. 5024. Issues arise upon the pleadings where a fact or conclusion of
law is maintained by the one party and controverted by the other.
They are of two kinds :
First. Of law.
Second. Of fact.
Sec. 5025. An issue of law arises :
First. Upon a demurrer to the complaint, answer or reply, or to some part
thereof.
An issue of fact arises :
First. Upon a material allegation in the complaint denied by the answer.
Second. Upon a set-off or counterclaim presented in the answer, and denied
by the reply.
Third. Upon material new matter in the answer or reply, which shall be
considered as controverted by the opposite party without further pleading.
Issues both of law and fact may arise upon different parts of the pleadings
in the same action. In such cases the issues of law must be first tried, unless
the court otherwise direct. Ib., sees. 334, 335, as amended 1871.
Complaint.
Sec. 5026. The first pleading by the plaintifff is the complaint. The com
plaint must contain :
First. The style of the court in which the action is brought.
Second. The style of the action, consisting of the names of all the parties
thereto, distinguishing them as plaintifffs and defendants, followed by the
. words " complaint at law," if the proceedings are at law, and by the words
"complaint in equity," if the proceedings are equitable.
Third. A statement in ordinary and concise language, without repetition,
of the facts constituting the plaintifff's cause of action.
Fourth. A demand of the relief to which the plaintifff considers himself
entitled (gg).
(ff) On overruling a demurrer to a cross-complaint the defendant In It should be allowed to answer.
Campbell v. Savage, 33—678. In a suit In equity a purely legal demand can not be set up in a cross-complaint.
TrapnaU v. Hill, 31—315. A cross-complaint must relate to matters in original complaint. Ib.
(gg) Sufficiency of complaint can not be questioned for the first time on appeal. Coftn v. Hager, 80—25.
Defects in the complaint may be supplied by averments in the answer. Pindall v. Trover, 30—249. And in
such case the complaint need not be amended. Webb v. Davit, 37—555 ; Davit v. Hare, 32—886. The omission
of the style of the court Is no ground of error. McLeran v. Morgan, 27—148. When the names of the parties
are set out in the margin, they need not be repeated In the body of the complaint. Ib.
Sec. 5027. Where the complaint contains more than one cause of action,
each shall be distinctly stated in a separate paragraph, and numbered.
Demurrer.
SEC. 5028. The defendant may demur to the complaint where it appears
on its face, either :
First. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the defendant, or
the subject of the action ; or,
Second. That the plaintifff has not legal capacity to sue; or,
Third. That there is another action pending between the same parties for
the same cause; or,
Fourth. That there is a defect of parties, plaintifff or defendant; or,
Fifth. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action (hh).
SEC. 5029. The demurrer shall distinctly specify the grounds of objection
to the complaint; unless it does so, it shall be regarded as objecting only that
the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
SEC. 5030. If the court sustains the demurrer, the plaintifff may amend,
with or without costs, as the court may order.
SEC. 5031. When any of the matters enumerated in section 5028 do not
appear upon the face of the complaint, the objection may be taken by answer.
If no such objection is taken, either by demurrer or answer, the defendant
shall be deemed to have waived the same, except only the objection to the
jurisdiction of the court over the subject of the action, and the objection that
the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
SEC. 5032. The defendant may demur to one or more of the several causes
of action alleged in the complaint, and answer as to the residue. Ib., sees.
109-115.
Answer.
SEC. 5033. The answer shall contain :
First. The style of the court and the style of the action, followed by the
word "answer." But where there are several plaintifffs and defendants, it shall
only be necessary to give the one first named of each class, with the words
<f,and others."
Second. A denial of each allegation of the complaint controverted by the
defendant, or of any knowledge or information thereof, sufficient to form a
belief.
Third. A statement of any new matter constituting a defense, counter
claim or set-off, in ordinary and concise language, without repetition (ii).
(hh) Demurrer may be filed with answer In vacation. See Sets. 5052, 5053. A general demurrer does not
raise the question of a defect of parties. Eagle v. Beard, 33—497. A demurrer to several paragraphs
should be overruled, unless all are bad. Cairo B. R. Co. v. Part», 32—131 ; Warner v. Cappe, 37—34. A
demurrer to an answer relates back to the complaint. Bruce v. Benedict, 31—801. Neither a defective descrip
tion of land, nor a failure to file a copy of a deed, is ground of demurrer. Henry v. Blackburn, 32—446. Nor
a defense defectively stated ; the party should move to make more specific. Bushey v. Reynolds, 31—657; Ball
r. Fulton Co., Ib., 379. The sufficiency of a pleading must be raised by a demurrer, and not by a motion to
strike out. Goodwin v. Robimon, 30—536.
Multifariousness can not be corrected by demurrer, but only by motion to strike out. Dyer v. Jacoway,
42—186.
(11) Denials must be direct. Young v. MUchett, 33—222. An answer averring fraudulent representations
should state what they were. Cailin v. Home, 34—109. Picas in abatement are abolished. Grider v. Appcrson,
Fourth. The defendant may set forth in his answer as many grounds of
defense, counterclaim and set-off, whether legal or equitable, as he shall have.
Each shall be distinctly stated in a separate paragraph, and numbered. The
several defenses must refer to the causes of action which they are intended to answer in a manner by which they may be intelligibly distinguished (j).
SEC. 5034. The counterclaim mentioned in this chapter must be a cause
of action in favor of the defendants, or some of them, against the plaintifffs or
some of them, arising out of the contract or transactions set forth in the complaint, as the foundation of the plaintifff's claim or connected with the subject
of the action.
SEc. 5035. When it appears that a new party is necessary to a final decision
upon the counterclaim, the court may either permit the new party to be made,
by a summons, to reply to the counterclaim in the answer, or may direct that
it be stricken out of the answer and made the subject of a separate action. Ih,
secs. 116–118.
SEC. 5036. A set-off can only be pleaded in an action founded on contract,
and must be a cause of action arising upon contract or ascertained by the
decision of a court.
Ib., sec. 119.
SEc. 5037. In suits by executors or administrators, debts existing against
their testators or intestates, and owing to the defendant at the time of the
death of the testator or intestate, may be set off by the defendant in the same manner as if the action had been brought by and in the name of the deceased.
SEC. 5038. Judgments, bills, bonds, notes or other writings assigned to the
defendant after suit has been commenced against him and the writ served shall
not be allowed to be set off against the demands of the plaintifff.
SEC. 5039.
When any plaintifff shall be indebted to a defendant in any
 bond, bill, note, contract, book account, or other liquidated demand, and the
defendant shall fail to set off such debt against the plaintifff's demand, such
defendant shall be forever barred from recovering costs in any suit which he
may thereafter institute upon any such bond, bill, note, contract, book account,
or other liquidated demand. Rev. Stat., chap. 139, secs. 2, 3 and 7.
SEc. 5040. Where it appears that a new party is necessary to a final decision upon the set-off, the court shall permit the new party to be made, if it also
appears that, owing to the insolvency or non-residence of the plaintifff, or other
cause, the defendant will be in danger of losing his claim, unless permitted to
use it as a set-off.
Erb v. Perkins, I b.,428. Each paragraph
must state facts that will bar a recovery. Cairo R. R. Co. v. Parks, 32–181; Norman v. Rogers, 29–36. If all
the paragraphs taken together show a defense, a demurrer to them should be overruled. Ib. So where
32–332. Matters in abatement and bar may be pleaded together.
demurrer is to whole answer and any paragraph is good. Cairo R. R. Co. v. Parks, Ubi. Sup, An answer"
not evidence. Gerson v. Pool, 31–85; Conger v. Cotton, 37–295. General denials are not sufficient, but they
are cured by verdict.

Tyner v. Hays, 37-603. But a plea of nil debit is a nullity,

Lawrence v. Meyer, 35–105.

But see Fain v. Goodwin, Ib., 110. It is not sufficient to plead fraud generally. McIlroy v. Buckner, Ib, 56.
(j) Though plaintifff dismiss, defendant may proceed with his counterclaim. See SEC. 5166. Defendant
can have no affirmative relief unless he files a counterclaim. Marr v. Lewis, 31–203. The counterclaim
must grow out of the contract sued on. Bloom v. Lehman, 27–489; Hudson v. Snipes, 40–75. Debts to be set
off must be due to and from the same parties.

Collier v. Dyer, 27–478. In a suit on a contract damages can

not be set off. Bloom v. Lehman, Ubi. Sup., Gerson v. Slemmons, 30–50. A debt due from the plaintifff to one
of several defendants may be set off. Leach v. Lambeth, 14–668. But not when one of several plaintifffs owes
the defendant. Collier v. Dyer, 27–478. A debt contracted by an intestate can not be set off against one co"
tracted with his administrator. Bizzell v. Stone, 12–378; Biscoe v. Moore, Ib., 77. As to judgment in probate
court being set off, see Higgs v. Warner, 14-192.
Sec. 5041. Where the facts stated in the answer are not sufficient to con
stitute a defense, counterclaim or set-off, the plaintifff may demur.
Sec. 5042. It shall be the duty of the guardian of an infant or person of
unsound mind, or attorney appointed for a prisoner, to file an answer denying
the material allegations of the complaint prejudicial to such defendant. Civil
Code, sees. 120-122 (kk).
Reply.
Sec. 5043. There shall be no reply, except upon the allegation of a counter
claim or set-off in the answer.
Sec. 5044. When the answer contains new matter constituting a counter
claim or set-off, the plaintifff may reply to such new matter, denying each alle
gation controverted by him, or any knowledge or information thereof sufficient
to form a belief, and may allege, in concise language, any new matter not incon
sistent with the complaint, constituting a defense to the counterclaim or
set-off (11).
SEC. 5045. When the facts stated in the reply do not amount to a sufficient
defense, the defendant may demur. Ib., sees. 123-125.
time of pleading.
Sec. 5046. The defense to an action at law shall be filed on or before the
third day of the term :
First. When the summons has been served ten days before the commence
ment of the term in the county in which the action is brought, or in an adjoin
ing county.
Second. When it has been served twenty days elsewhere in the state, or
sixty days out of the state.
Third. Where the defendant has been constructively summoned thirty
days (mm). Ib., sec. 126, as amended by act March 22, 1881.
SEC. 5047. The reply shall be filed on or before the calling of the cause for
'trial.
Sec. 5048. In an action prosecuted by equitable proceedings, the defense
must be filed on the third day of the term :
First. Where the summons has been served twenty days before the com
mencement of the term, in the county in which the action is brought, or an
adjoining county.
Second. Where it has been served thirty days elsewhere in the state, or sixty
days out of the state ; or,
Third. Where the defendant has been constructively summoned thirty
days.
SEC. 5049. Where the service of the summons was before the commence
ment of the term, but not the length of time mentioned in the last section,
the defense shall be filed in thirty days after the service.
(kk) See Secs. 4957-1959, 4962, 4966 ; Freeman v. RusseU, 40—56 ; and note to Sec. 4967.
(II) A reply improperly filed should be stricken out. Cannon v. Bavtes, 33—56; Abbott v. Rowan, Ib., 598.
As to set-off and counterclaim, SEC. note to Sec. 5033.
(mm) The court may extend the time. Mayes v. Hendry, 33—240 ; Simms v. Richardson, 32—304. Ab to
service out of the state, see Secs. 4987, 4988.
SEC. 5050. If the answer in equitable proceedings contains a counterclaim
or set-off the plaintifff shall reply within twenty days after the answer is filed,
or ninety days before the ensuing term.
SEC. 5051. The court may, for good cause shown, extend the time for fil
ing an answer or reply to some subsequent day in that or the next succeeding
term, the party applying for the delay paying the costs occasioned thereby.
SEC. 5052. A party may file a demurrer with his answer or reply (nn).
SEC. 5053. The filing of a demurrer, answer or reply in the clerk's office in
vacation within the time allowed, with notice thereof to the opposite party or
his attorney, shall be equivalent to a filing in court as of that date.
SEC. 5054. When a party files a demurrer with his answer or reply, the
demurrer must be presented for the consideration of the court at or before the
first calling of the cause for trial after the filing of the same. If he fails to do so, the demurrer shall be regarded as waived as to all points, except the jurisdic
tion of the court, and that the pleading demurred to does not state facts suffi
cient to constitute a cause of action or a defense, counterclaim or set-off. Ib,
secs. 127–134.
SEC. 5055. Every pleading must be subscribed by the party or his attor
ney, and the complaint, answer and reply must each be verified by the affidavit
of the party to the effect that he believes the statements thereof to be true;
such verification shall not make other or greater proof necessary on the side of
the adverse party.
SEC. 5056. The verification of any pleading of a corporation may be by any
officer or agent on whom the summons in an action against the corporation may be served, or by its attorney in the action.
SEC. 5057.
Ib., sec. 135.
Where there are several plaintifffs the verification of the complaint or reply may be made by any of them, if he has personal knowledge of
the facts set forth therein; and, when several defendants unite in the same answer and defense, the verification may be by either of them, if the defendant
verifying the same shall, when he is materially interested, make oath that the
facts and statements contained in such answer and defense are true to his own knowledge or belief.
SEC. 5058. In equitable actions the material allegations of the answer must be verified by each defendant, unless the party making the same shall verify the answer or defense in the manner provided in the preceding section. Ib,
sec. 792, as amended 1873.
SEC. 5059. Verification shall not be required to the answer of a guardian defending for an infant or person of unsound mind, or imprisoned; nor in any
case where the admission of the truth of the allegations of the complaint or answer might subject the party to a criminal or penal prosecution; nor to plead
ings affecting injuries to person or character; nor to complaints in actions founded on a note, bond, bill of exchange, mortgage or other written obligation
of the defendant; nor to defenses founded on the written obligation, release or
(nn.) This is true, though the answer go to the whole complaint. Greenfield v. Carlton, 30–547.
(oo) As to dismissing for want of verification, see SEC. 5086. The state need not verify her pleadings.
SEcs. 6383, 6472. Want of verification can not be raised for the first time on appeal. Payne v. Flournoy, 29
written acknowledgment of the plaintifff, unless the writing on which the action
or defense is founded is lost, mutilated or destroyed; nor to the petition or
answer in cases of proceedings for the partition of land or the allotment of dower.
lb., sees. 136, 548.
Sec. 5060. Whenever the affidavit of the plaintifff or defendant is required
to verify a pleading, to obtain a warning order, a provisional remedy, or any
other order in an action, or on a motion or proceeding therein, it may, unless
otherwise expressed, be made by the agent or attorney of the party, if the party
is absent from the county, or is mentally incapable of taking an oath, or is
physically unable to attend before the court or officer for the purpose of making
the affidavit, in which case the affidavit shall state the reason, and that the
affiant is the agent or attorney of the party. Ib., sec. 603.
Sec. 5061. Whenever any such pleading shall be verified by the agent or
attorney of either party for any of the foregoing reasons, except the mental inca
pacity of the party, the opposing party may make an affidavit that he does not
believe that the party, whose agent or attorney verified such pleading or affi
davit, can truthfully verify the same with his own oath, and that the matters
therein alleged are within the personal knowledge of such party. Upon the
filing of such affidavit it shall be the duty of the court to compel such party to
verify said affidavit or pleading in person, reasonable time therefore being given.
On failure of such party to make such verification, it shall be the duty of the
court to dismiss the complaint, suppress the answer, reply or affidavit, and ren
der judgment accordingly, Unless amended pleadings or affidavit shall be filed
and properly verified by the party in person. Ib., sec. 604.
RULES FOR PLEADING.
Sec. 5062. Neither presumptions of law nor matter of which judicial no
tice is taken need be stated in a pleading. Ib., sec. 137.
Sec. 5063. If the action, counterclaim or set-off is founded on a note, bond,
bill or other writing as evidence of indebtedness, the original, or a copy thereof,
must be filed as part of the pleading, if in the power of the party to produce
it. If not filed, the reason thereof must be stated in the pleading. If upon an
account, a copy thereof must, in like manner, be filed with the pleading (pp).
lb., sec. 138, as amended 1871.
Sec. 5064. If either party shall rely upon any deed or other writing, he
shall file with his pleading the original deed or writing, if in his power, or a
copy thereof. If he can not procure such deed or writing, or a copy thereof, he
shall so state in his pleading, together with the reasons therefore; and, if such
reasons are sufficient, he may file the best evidence of the contents of such deed
or writing in his ' power. Original deeds and other writings, filed by either
(pp) Ab to when writing filed with the pleading may be read, see Sec. 287J. A failure to file writing is
no ground of demurrer. Kordman v. Craighead, 27—369; Surginer v. Paddock, 31—529; Henry v. Blackburn,
32—446. The substance of the writing should be Btated in the pleadings, Ib. Where a copy has been filed
the court may still compel the filing of the original. Weaver v. Carnall, 35—203 ; Egan v. Tewketbury, 82—43. In
suit for personal property claimed under mortgage, the mortgage is no part of the complaint, though filed
with it. Chamblee v. Stokct, 33—543. An instrument filed, not the foundation of the action, can not be noticed
on demurrer. Abbott v. Rowan, lb., 593. In chancery, an exhibit is a part of the record, and, if it is the founda
tion of the suit, it will explain, and even control, the averments in the complaint. Beaeert v. Baucum, Ib.,
722. Copies of deeds filed with the pleadings are no part of the pleadings or of the evidence. Richardson v.
Wiilianu, 37—542.
party, shall remain on file for the inspection of the other party until allowed
by the court to be withdrawn, and in such cases copies, attested by the clerk,
shall be substituted by the parties withdrawing the original, Ib, sec. 148, as
amended 1871.
SEc. 5065. In construing a pleading for the purpose of determining its
effects, its allegations shall be liberally construed, with a view to substantial
justice between the parties (f).
SEc. 5066. If irrelevant or redundant matter is inserted in a pleading, it
may be stricken out, on motion of any person aggrieved thereby, at the cost of
the party whose pleading contained it.
SEC. 5067. In pleading a judgment or other determination of the court, or
officer of special jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary to state the facts con
ferring jurisdiction, but such judgment or determination may be stated to have
been duly given or made. If such allegation is made in a complaint, and is not
controverted in the answer, or made in the answer in relation to a counter
claim or set-off, and is not controverted in the reply, it need not be proved on
the trial.
SEC. 5068. In pleading the performance of a condition precedent in a con
tract, it shall not be necessary to state the facts showing such performance, but
it may be stated generally that the party duly performed all the conditions on
his part; and, if such an allegation is not controverted as stated in the last
section in regard to judgments, it shall not be necessary to prove it on trial.
SEC. 5069.
In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be necessary to state in the complaint any extrinsic facts for the purpose of showing the appli
cation to the plaintifff of the defamatory matter out of which the cause of action
arose; but it shall be sufficient to state generally that the same was published or
spoken concerning the plaintifff; and if such allegation is not controverted as
stated in section 5067 in regard to judgments, it shall not be necessary to prove
it on trial.
SEC. 5070.
In the actions mentioned in the last section, the defendant may, in his answer, allege both the truth of the matter charged as defamatory
and any mitigating circumstances, legally admissible in evidence, to reduce the
amount of damages, and, whether he proves the justification or not, he may
give in evidence the mitigating circumstances.
SEC. 5071. In an action for the recovery of real property, it must be
described in the complaint with such convenient certainty as to enable an
officer holding an execution to identify it.
SEC. 5072. Every material allegation of the complaint not specifically con
troverted by the answer, and every material allegation of new matter in the
answer constituting a counterclaim or set-off not specifically controverted by
the reply, must, for the purposes of the action, be taken as true (£). But the

allegation of new matter in the answer not relating to a counterclaim or set-off.
or of new matter in a reply, is to be deemed controverted by the adverse party

as upon a direct denial or avoidance, as the case may require. Allegations of
value, or of amount of damage, shall not be considered as true by the failure to
controvert them.

A material allegation in a pleading is one essential to the claim

(f) See Bushey v. Reynolds, 31–657.

(1) See Stafford v. Watson, 41–17.
or defense, and which could not be stricken from the pleading without -leaving
it insufficient. Ib., sees. 139-147.
Sec. 5074. In actions founded upon a note, bond, bill of exchange, mort
gage or other written obligation of the defendants, or any of them, the plaint
iff may file with his complaint the affidavit of himself, or his agent or attorney,
to the effect that affiant verily believes that there is no good and valid defense
to said action upon the merits, and that if defense is made thereto it will be
made for the purpose of delay merely ; whereupon the court shall not allow an
answer to be filed in said action, or, if filed, shall strike out the same, unless it
be accompanied with an affidavit to the effect that the affiant verily believes
that there is a good and valid defense to said action upon the merits thereof.
Provided, that such affidavit shall not dispense with any verification required in
other cases. And, provided, further, that if such defendant should fail to estab
lish his defense to the merits of said case, the clerk shall tax against him a
docket fee for double the amount allowed in other like actions. Ib., sec. 149.
AMENDMENTS (qq).
Sec. 5075. No variance between the allegation in a pleading and the proof
is to be deemed material, unless it has actually misled the adverse party to his
prejudice in maintaining his action or defense upon the merits. Whenever it
is alleged that a party has been so misled, that fact must be shown to the satis
faction of the court, and it must also be shown in what respect he has been
misled ; and thereupon the court may order the pleading to be amended upon
such terms as may be just.
SEC. 5076. Where the variance is not material, as provided in the last sec
tion, the court may direct the fact to be found according to the evidence, and
may order an immediate amendment without costs.
Sec. 5077. Where, however, the allegation of the claim or defense, to which
the proof is directed, is unproved, not in some particular or particulars only,
but in its general scope and meaning, it is not to be deemed a case of variance
within the last two sections, but a failure of proof.
(qq) The court may permit a substituted answer to be filed during the trial. Jetton r. Smcad, 29—372. A
mistake in the name of a party may be corrected. Braver* v. Baucuin, 33—722. A complaint may be amended
after answer. Cross r. Johnson, 30—390. An answer that is indefinite may be amended after verdict, so as to
conform to proof. Trippc t: Duval, 33—811. A mistake in a verdict should be corrected so as to conform to
the real intent of the jury. Woodruff v. Webb. 32—013. Failure to allege value is cured by verdict. Jefferson v.
Hale, 31—280. A defective complaint, showing merits, should not be dismissed without giving leave to
amend. Palmer v. Ranking, 30—771 ; Buckner v. Sessions, 27—22"). Where no objection is made to evidence, the
complaint must be considered as if amended so as to conform to it. Ifanks v. Harris, 29—323 ; Healy v. Conner,
40—352. A suit should not be dismissed for want of parties, if plaintifff will amend. Benjamin v. Loughborough,
31—210. A complaint and an umendment to it form but one paper. Holland v. Rogers, 83—251. Save where
grossly abused, the discretion of the circuit court as to amendments will not be controlled. Ford v. Ward,
21)—3(*. One claiming to have been misled by an amendment must show In what manner. King v. Caldwell.
Ib. ,40b. An amendment inconsistent with original pleading should be accompanied with an explanatory
affidavit. Reynold* v. West, 32—244. After an answer has been held bad, an amended answer raising the same
issue may be stricken from the flies. Goodwin v. Robinson. 30—536. Where a complaint shows that the plaintifff
has no cause of action, it can not be amended by making others plaintifffs who have. State v. Roilakln, 34—14-f
A summons against a firm may be amended by inserting the names of the partners. Martin v. Goodwin,
34—682. And a summons may be amended by showing the representative character of the defendant.
Richardson v. Hickman, 32—106. A writ of forcible detainer may be amended by inserting the names of the
parties. Oalbreath r. Mitchell, 32—278. A return on a summons may b» amended even after an appeal. St.
IjouU Railway Co. v. Yonim, 34—493.
Additional pleadings to correspond with the Issues established by the evidence may be filed after the case
has been argued to the jury. Burk v. Snell, 42—57. See also Gainus v. Cannon, Ib., 503.
SEC, 5078. The plaintifff may amend his complaint without leave at any
time before an answer is filed, and without prejudice to the proceedings
already had.
SEC. 5079. Upon a demurrer being overruled, the party demurring may
answer or reply.
SEc. 5080. The court may, at any time, in furtherance of justice, and on
such terms as may be proper, amend any pleadings or proceeding by adding
or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect, or by inserting other allegations
material to the case; or, when the amendment does not change subtantially the
claim or defense, by conforming the pleading or proceeding to the facts proved.
SEC. 5081. The court may likewise, in its discretion, allow an answer or
reply to be made after the time limited by law, or by an order enlarge such time.
And whenever any proceeding taken by a party fails to conform in any respect
to the requirements of the law, the court may permit an amendment of such proceedings, so as to make it conformable thereto.
SEC, 5082. When the allegations of a pleading are so indefinite or uncer
tain that the precise nature of the claim or defense is not apparent, the court
may require the pleading to be made definite and certain by amendment (rr).
SEC. 5083. The court must, in every stage of an action, disregard any
error or defect in the proceedings which does not affect the substantial rights of
the adverse party; and no judgment shall be reversed or affected by reason of
such error or defect.

SEc. 5084. The plaintifff and defendant, respectively, may be allowed, on
motion, to make a supplemental complaint, answer or reply, alleging facts
material to the case occurring after the filing of the former complaint, answer
or reply.

SEc. 5085. When either party shall amend any pleading or proceeding,
and the court shall be satisfied by affidavit or otherwise, that the adverse
party could not be ready for trial in consequence thereof, a continuance may
be granted to some day in the same term, or to another term of the court.
SEC. 5086. Where complaints are filed without verification, as required by
section 5055, the action shall not on that account be dismissed, if the verifica
tion be made on or before the calling of the action for trial.

SEc. 5087. No objection shall be taken after judgment to any pleading for
the want of, or defect in, the verification.
SEc. 5088. Courts may permit amendments to be made without being veri
fied, as prescribed in section 5055, unless a new and distinct cause of action or
defense is thereby produced (ss). Ib., secs, 150–160.
SEC. 5089. In actions by equitable proceedings either party may annex to

his complaint, answer or reply written interrogatories to any one or more of
the adverse parties concerning any of the material matters in issue in the
action; the answers to which, on oath, may be read by either party, as a depo
sition between the party interrogating and the party answering.
trr) The court may require a bill of particulars to be filed.
(ss) See Halliburton v. Nance, 40-161.

Walker v. Fuller, 29–448,
Sec. 5090. The party answering shall not be confined to responding
merely to the interrogatories, but may state any new matter concerning the
same cause of action, which shall likewise be read as a deposition. Ib., sees.
161-162.
Sec. 6091. In actions by equitable proceedings, if a party in answering
interrogatories states new matters not responsive to the inquiries, the party
interrogating may, before the trial, file his written statement, under oath, con
cerning such new matters, which shall be read as a deposition. Ib., sec. 665.
SEC. 5092. Where the interrogatories are annexed to the complaint, they
shall be answered at the same time the party is required to answer the com
plaint; where annexed to the answer or reply, then in twenty days after notice
shall be given thereof to the adverse party or his attorney; but if answered
twenty days before the term at which the action stands regularly for trial, the
action shall not be postponed on account of their not being sooner answered.
SEC. 5093. In actions by proceedings at law either party may, in like man
ner, annex written interrogatories to his complaint, answer or reply, directed
to any one or more of the adverse parties concerning any material matter in
issue in the action in the following cases:
First. Where the party interrogated does not reside in the same or an
adjoining county.
Second. Where the party interrogated is unable to attend court on account
of age, infirmity or imprisonment, or is a female.
SEC. 5094. Where the interrogatories in an action by proceedings at law
arc annexed to the complaint, they shall be answered at the same time the
complaint is required to be answered; where annexed to the answer or reply,
at or before the calling of the cause for trial, where the party interrogated had
reasonable notice of their being filed.
SEC. 5095. The trial of an action by proceedings at law shall not be post
poned on account of the failure to answer the interrogatories, if the party .
interrogated is present in court at the trial, so that he may be orally examined ;
nor in case of his absence, without an affidavit showing the facts the party
believes will be proved by the answers thereto, and that the party has not filed
the interrogatories, nor omitted to file them, for the purpose of delay. Where
upon, if the party will consent that the facts stated in the affidavit shall be
considered as admitted by those ' interrogated, the trial shall not be postponed
for that cause.
SEC. 5096. The provisions of section 5090 shall apply to the answers to
interrogatories in actions by proceedings at law.
SEC. 6097. The party in answering such interrogatories shall distinguish
clearly between what is stated from his personal knowledge and what is stated
from information or belief merely. An unqualified statement of a fact shall be
considered as made of his personal knowledge.
SEC. 5098. The answer to the interrogatories shall be verified by the affi
davit of the party answering, to the effect that the statements in them made of
his own personal knowledge are true, and those made from the information of
others he believes to be true.
SEC. 5099. Where the party resides in the same or an adjoining county, he
may be summoned by the adverse party, and compelled to testify on the trial
of an action by proceedings at law as any other witness.
Sec. 5100. Where a party filing interrogatories shall also file an affidavit
that he verily believes the subject of the interrogatories, or any of them, is in
the personal knowledge of the opposite party, and that his answers thereto, if
truly made from such knowledge, will sustain the claim or defense, or any part
thereof, and the opposite party shall fail, after reasonable time allowed there
for to answer them, the claim or defense, or the part thereof, according to such
affidavit, shall be deemed to be sustained and judgment given accordingly.
Sec. 5101. The court may compel answers to interrogatories by process of
contempt, and may on the failure of the party to answer them, after reasonable
time allowed therefore, dismiss the complaint or quash the answer of the party
so failing. Ib., sees. 163-172.
By the Court—By the Plaintiff.
Sec. 5102. An action may be dismissed without prejudice to a future
action :
First. By the plaintifff before the final submission of the case to the jury,
or to the court, where the trial is by the court.
Second. By the court where the plaintifff fails to appear on the trial.
Third. By the court for the want of necessary parties.
Fourth. By the court on the application of some of the defendants, where
there are others whom the plaintifff fails to prosecute with diligence.
Fifth. By the court for disobedience by the plaintifff of an order concerning
the proceedings in the action.
In all other cases, upon the trial of the action, the decision must be upon
the merits. Ib., sec. 402.
Sec. 5103. The plaintifff may dismiss any action in vacation, in the office
of the clerk, on the payment of all costs that may have accrued therein, except
an action to recover the possession of specific personal property, when the
property has been delivered to the plaintifff (tt). Rev. Stat., chap. 116, sec. 134.
Sec. 5104. A trial is a judicial examination of the issues, whether of law
or of fact, in an action.
Sec. 5105. Issues of law must be tried by the court. Issues of fact, aris
ing in actions by proceedings at law for the recovery of money, or of specific
real or personal property, shall be tried by a jury, unless a jury trial is waived.
Sec. 5106. All other issues of fact, whether arising in proceedings at law
or equitable proceedings, shall be tried by the court, subject to its power to
order any issue or issues to be tried by jury (uu).
(tt) A non-suIt taken before a clerk In vacation, on payment of costs, is authorized by the statute. Safe
Bank v. Gray, 12—760.
Though plaintifff dismiss his action, the defendant may proceed to the trial of his set-off or counterrials. SEC. 5165.
(uu) In contested elections issues are to be tried by the court Witt v. Martin, 86—308; Gowm t. Jactton,
Sec. 5107. The trial in each action shall he in the order in which it stands
upon the docket. Civil Code, sees. 336-339.
continuance.
Sec. 5108. A motion to postpone a trial on account of the absence of evi
dence shall, if required by the opposite party, be made only upon affidavit
showing the materiality of the evidence expected to be obtained, and that due
diligence has been used to obtain it; and, if it is for an absent witness, the affida
vit must show what facts the affiant believes the witness will prove, and not
merely the effect of such facts in evidence, and that the affiant himself believes
them to be true. If, thereupon, the adverse party will admit that on the trial
the absent witness, if present, would testify to the statement contained in the
application for a continuance, then the trial shall not be postponed for that
cause; provided, the opposite party may controvert the statement so set forth in
the said motion for continuance by evidence (vv). Ib., sec. 340, as amended by
net March 5, 1879.
Sec. 5109. When a case shall have been reversed and remanded by the
supreme court for further proceedings, it may be continued at the first term,
unless the mandate shall have been filed with the clerk of the court below and
reasonable notice given to the adverse party, or his attorney of record, before
the commencement of the term, in which case it shall stand for trial, unless
good cause for a continuance be shown. Ib., sec. 884, as amended 1873.
Sec. 5110. No order of continuance shall take effect until the party upon
whose application it was granted shall have paid or secured the payment of all
costs of the action due for the term in which such continuance shall be granted.
76., sec. 775, as amended 1871.
Dockets and Order of Busines*.
SEC. 5111. The clerk shall keep three separate dockets, which shall he
called the "law docket," the "equity docket" and the "motion docket."
SEC. 5112. On the law docket shall be entered all actions prosecuted by
proceedings at law, in the order in which they were brought.
SEC. 5113. The law docket shall be made out for each term of the court,
and the actions shall be set for particular days, and so arranged by the clerk
that the cases set for each day shall be tried, as nearly as may be, on that day.
SEC. 5114. The trial of any issue of fact or assessment of damages by a
jury, in any case, shall be on or after the day which it is set on the docket.
SEC. 5115. On the equity docket shall be entered all actions prosecuted by
equitable proceedings in the order in which they were brought. Ib., sees.
378-382.
SEC. 5116. On the motion docket may be entered any motion relating to
proceedings in the court, and such entry shall be considered as making the
motion. Ib., sees. 383 and 393.
SEC. 5117. The entry on all the dockets shall give the names of the plaint
iff and defendant, or, if there be more than one, then of the first named in
(TV) See Bibbard v. JCirby. 88—102. A motion for a continuance by a defendant should not be made before
iling answer. Winter v. Bandd, 80—862.
the pleadings, with the words “and others” added thereto, and the names of
the attorneys.
SEC. 5118. The entry on the law docket shall also show whether or not the
summons has been fully served in due time for trial, and whether or not the
issue has been formed (ww).
SEC. 5119. The entry on the motion docket shall show the date of the
entry and the object of the motion.
SEC. 5120. The first hour of each day of the term shall be devoted to
hearing motions, in which the court shall first call the motion docket, and then
upon the attorneys present, for motions.
SEC. 5121. If the hour is not consumed in motions, the court may proceed,
during the remainder thereof, to call the equity docket.
SEC. 5122. At the expiration of the motion hour the court, except on the
third day of the term, shall proceed to the call of the law docket and the trial
of the issues until the call is completed, and then to the call of the equity
docket.
SEC. 5123. On the fourth day of the term the court shall render judgment
by default in all actions at law wherein due service has been had as provided in
section 5046, and no defense has been filed (f); provided, the court may, for good
cause, allow further time for filing a defense. Ib., sec. 390, as amended by act
March 22, 1881.
SEC. 5124. On the third day of each term the court shall call all cases on the equity docket in which the summons has been served as provided in section
5048, and, upon failure to defend, may give judgment. Ib., sec. 391.
SEC. 5125.
Actions by proceedings at law shall stand for trial at the first
term after process has been served on the defendant as specified in section 5046.
SEC. 5126. An action upon contract, wherein the summons has been served
in due time, as provided in section 5046, upon part only of the defendants,
shall stand for trial at the first term as to those so summoned, and may be con
tinued as to the others for further proceedings. In other actions by proceed
ings at law the plaintifff can only demand a trial at any term as to part of the
defendants, upon his discontinuing his action on the first day of such term as
to the others.
SEc. 5127. Actions prosecuted by equitable proceedings shall stand for trial
at any term, where the pleadings have been, or, by the provisions of sections
5048, 5049 and 5050, should have been, completed ninety days before the com
mencement of such term. But where they have not been so completed, though they should have been by those sections, the party in default, as to time, shall
not be entitled to demand a trial.
SEC. 5128. Where interrogatories have been annexed to a pleading in an
action by equitable proceedings, the party interrogated shall not be entitled to
demand a trial, unless he has answered the interrogatories either within twenty days after they were filed, or twenty days before the term.
(ww.) For further requirements in relation to such entry, see SEc. 551.
(!) see Silver v. Luck, 42–268.
A default admits only the allegations of the complaint, and if they are insufficient to support
judgment, it will be reversed. Chaffin v. McFadden, 41–42.
Sec. 5129. The plaintifff shall be entitled to a trial in actions by equitable
proceedings at the first term after the summons has been served on all the
defendants, as provided in section 5048, where no issue of fact is made by the
pleadings, or where the plaintifff consents that the statements of the answer
may be taken as true.
SEC. 5130. Where the summons in an action by equitable proceedings has
been served in due time on part only of the defendants, the plaintifff may dis
miss his action as to those not summoned, and proceed to trial as to the others,
in all cases where he could have maintained his action against them without
joining those not summoned (xx). Ib., sees. 394-398.
i
Sec. 5131. When the jury (yy) has been sworn, the trial shall proceed in
the following order, unless the court, for special reasons, otherwise directs :
First. The plaintifff must briefly state his claim, and the evidence by which
he expects to sustain it.
Second. The defendant must then briefly state his defense, and the evidence
he expects to offer in support of it.
Third. The party on whom rests the burden of proof (zz) in the whole
action must first produce his evidence. The adverse party will then produce
his evidence.
Fourth. The parties will then be confined to rebutting evidence, unless the
court, for good reasons, in furtherance of justice, permits them to offer evidence
in their original case.
Fifth. When the evidence is concluded, either party may request instruc
tions to the jury on points of law, which shall be given or refused by the court,
which instructions shall be reduced to writing if either party require it (aaa).
Sixth. The parties may then submit or argue the case to the jury. In the
argument the party having the burden of proof shall have the opening and
conclusion ; and if, upon the demand of his adversary, he shall refuse to open
and fully state the grounds upon which he claims a verdict, he shall be refused
the conclusion. Ib., sec. 349, as amended by act Dec. 15, 1875.
Sec. 5132. Whenever, in the opinion of the court, it is proper for the jury
to have a view of real property which is the subject of litigation, or of the
place in which any material fact occurred, it may order them to be conducted in
a body, under the charge of an officer, to the place, which shall be shown to them
by some person appointed by the court for that purpose. While the jury are
thus absent, no person other than the person so appointed shall speak to them
on any subject connected with the trial.
Sec. 5133. When the case is finally submitted to the jury, they may decide
in court or retire for deliberation. If they retire, they must be kept together in
(xx) All Indorsers and makers of any instrument in writing for the payment of money may be sued
together or separately. Sec. 482. And joint obligations have the same effect as joint and levcral obligations,
and may be sued on and recoveries had thereon in like manner. Sec. 8900.
(yy) For qualifications and exemptions of jurors, SEC. Secs. 3908-3975. Forjnodeof selecting and summon
ing, see Secs. 3984, 3987.
For mode oi empaneling, challenges to and oath of jury, see Secs. 4004-4015.
(zz) The party holding the affirmative of an issue must prove it. Sec. 2S70. And as to party on whom the
burden of proof lies, see Sec. 2871.
(aaa) See art. VII, tec. 23, Const.
some convenient place, under the charge of an officer, until they agree upon a
verdict or are discharged by the court, subject to the discretion of the court to
permit them to separate temporarily at night and at their meals. The officer

having them under his charge shall not suffer any communication to be made
to them, or make any himself, except to ask them if they have agreed upon
their verdict, unless by order of the court; and he shall not, before their verdict
is rendered, communicate to any person the state of their deliberations or the
verdict agreed upon.
SEC. 5134. If the jury are permitted to separate, either during the trial or

after the case is submitted to them, they may be admonished by the court that
it is their duty not to converse with or suffer themselves to be addressed by any

other person on any subject of the trial, and, during the trial, that it is their
duty not to form or express an opinion thereon until the cause is finally sub
mitted to them.
SEc. 5135. After the jury have retired for deliberation, if there is a dis
agreement between them as to any part of the testimony, or if they desire to be
informed as to any point of law arising in the case, they may request the officer
to conduct them into court, where the information required shall be given in
the presence of or after notice to the parties or their counsel.
SEC. 5136. The jury may be discharged by the court on account of the
sickness of a juror, or other accident or calamity requiring their discharge, or by consent of both parties, or after they have been kept together until it satis
factorily appears that there is no probability of their agreeing.
SEC. 5137.
In all cases where the jury are discharged during the trial, or
after the cause is submitted to them, it may be tried again immediately or at a
future time, as the court may direct.
SEC. 5138. When the jury have agreed upon their verdict, they must be
conducted into court, their names called by the clerk and the verdict rendered
by their foreman. When the verdict is announced either party may require
the jury to be polled, which is done by the clerk or court asking each juror if
it is his verdict. If any one answer in the negative, the jury must again be
sent out for further deliberation.
SEC. 5139. The verdict shall be written, signed by the foreman and read
by the court or clerk to the jury, and the inquiry made whether it is their ver
dict.
If any juror disagrees, the jury must be sent out again, but if no disagreement is expressed, and neither party requires the jury to be polled, the verdict
is complete and the jury discharged from the case (bbb).
SEC. 5140. The verdict of a jury is either general or special. A general
verdict is that by which they pronounce generally upon all or any of the issues,
either in favor of the plaintifff or defendant.
SEC. 5141. A special verdict is that by which the jury finds the facts only.
It must present the facts as established by the evidence, and not the evidence
to prove them, and they must be so presented as that nothing remains to the
court but to draw from them conclusions of law.
(bbb) As to amendment of verdict, see Woodruff v. Webb, 32–613. As to defective verdict, see Hanks r.
IIarris, 29–324.
Sec. 5142. In all actions the jury, in their discretion, may render a gen
eral or special verdict, but may be required by the court, in any case in which
they render a general verdict, to find specially upon particular questions of fact
to be stated in writing. This special finding is to be recorded with the ver
dict (ccc).
SEC. 5143. When the special finding of facts is inconsistent with the gen
eral verdict, the former controls the latter, and the court may give judgment
accordingly (f).
SEC. 5144. When, by the verdict, either party is entitled to recover money
of the adverse party, the jury, in their verdict, must assess the amount of re
covery.
SEC. 5145. In actions for the recovery of specific personal property, the jury
must assess the value of the property, as also the damages for the taking or de
tention, whenever, by their verdict, there will be a judgment for the recovery
or return of the property (ddd). lb., sees. 350-362.
SEC. 5146. If, after a verdict shall be rendered in any action, either party
die before judgment actually entered thereon, the court may, at any time dur
ing the term at which such verdict was rendered, enter final judgment (eee) in
the names of the original parties. Rev. Stat., chap. 1, sec. 11.
Sec. 5147. Nothing in the preceding section shall be construed to authorize
the entry of the judgment against any party who may have died before a ver
dict actually rendered against him, notwithstanding he may have died on the
first or any other day of the term at which such verdict may have been ren
dered ; but such verdict shall be void. 76., sec. 12.
TRIAL BY THE COURT.
Sec. 5148. The trial by jury may be waived by the parties in actions aris
ing on contract, and, with the assent of the court, in other actions in the follow
ing manner :
*
First. By failing to appear at the trial.
Second. By written consent in person, or by attorney, filed with the clerk.
Third. By oral consent in open court, entered on the record.
SEC. 5149. Upon trials of questions of fact by the court, it shall state in
writing the conclusions of fact found separately from the conclusions of law (fff).
SEC. 5150. The requirements respecting trials by jury apply, so far as they
are in their nature applicable, to trials by the court. Civil Code, sees. 363, 364
and 377.
(ccc) This Is discretionary with the court. Little Rock Railroad Co. v. Pankhurtt, 36—377.
(t) See L. R. & Ft. S. Ry. v. MUas, 40—298.
(ddd) For manner of rendering judgment In action of replevin, see Sec. 5181.
(eee) See sixth subdivision of Sec. 3909 and Sec. 5255.
Where a cause has been submitted in the supreme court, if either party die before final judgment, the
judgment may be rendered in the names of the original parties, as of a day previous to such death ; or, if the
death of either party be suggested and proven, a nunc pro tunc order may be made to extend back to a day
between the submission and death. Pool v. Loomit, 5—110.
(fff) These findings may be reduced to writing after judgment. Ifathan v. Sloan, 34—524. If they arc not
special, a party may move to have them made so. Ib. They are conclusive as to the facts, unless the evi
dence Is set out. Woodruff v. McDonald, 33—97. This section has no application where judgment is rendered
on demurrer. Chrinman v. Rogen, 30—352. Declarations of law need not precede the finding of facts. Alexander v. State, use, etc., 42—11.
Sec. 5151. A new trial is a re-examination in the same court of an issue of
fact after a verdict by a jury or a decision by the court. The former verdict or
decision may be vacated and a new trial granted (ggg), on the application of
the party aggrieved, for any of the following causes, affecting materially the
substantial rights of such party :
First. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury or prevailing party,
or any order of court or abuse of discretion, by which the party was prevented
from having a fair trial.
Second. Misconduct of the jury or prevailing party.
Third. Accident or surprise- which ordinary prudence could not have
guarded against.
Fourth. Excessive damages appearing to have been given under the influ
ence of passion or prejudice (X).
Fifth. Error in the assessment of the amount of recovery, whether too
large or too small, where the action is upon a contract or for the injury or
detention of property.
Sixth. The verdict or decision is not sustained by sufficient evidence, or is
contrary to law.
Seventh. Newly-discovered evidence, material for the party applying, which
he could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced at the
trial.
Eighth. Error of law occurring at the trial, and excepted to by the party
making the application.
Sec. 5152. A new trial shall not be granted on account of the smallness of
damages in an action for an injury to the person or reputation, nor in any
other action where the damages shall equal the actual pecuniary injury sus
tained.
Sec. 5153. The application for a new trial must be made at the term the
verdict or decision is rendered, and, except for the cause mentioned in subdi
vision seven of section 5151, shall be within three days after the verdict or
decision was rendered, unless unavoidably prevented.
Sec. 5154. The application must be made by motion, upon written
grounds, filed at the time of making the motion. The grounds mentioned in
the second, third and seventh subdivisions of section 5151 must be sustained
by affidavits showing their truth, and may be controverted by affidavits.
Sec. 5155. Where grounds for new trial are discovered after the term at
which the verdict or decision was rendered, the application may be made by
petition filed with the clerk not later than the second term after the discovery,
on which a summons shall issue, as on other complaints, requiring the adverse
party to appear and answer it on or before the first day of the next term. The
application shall stand for hearing at the term to which the summons is
returned executed, and shall be summarily decided by the court. The evidence
may either be by depositions or by witnesses examined in court. But no such
(ggg) For causes for which a court may grant a new trial, vacate or modify its own judgment after the
expiration of the term, see Secs. 3909-3915.
(J) See Tezat & St. LouUs Railway Co. v. Eddy, 42—527 ; Kelly v. McDonald, 33—387 ; Ayliffv. Hardy, 25—19.
application shall be made more than three years after the final judgment' was.
rendered (f). Ib., sees. 371-375.
exceptions (hhh).
Sec. 5156. An exception is an objection taken to a decision of the court
upon a matter of law.
Sec. 5157. The party objecting to the decision must except at the time the
decision is made, and time may be given to reduce the exception to writing,
but not beyond the succeeding term; but the parties may agree that exceptions
to all decisions made during the trial are saved without being especially men
tioned at the time the decision is made.
Sec. 5158. No particular form of exception is required. The objection
must be stated, with so much of the evidence as is necessary to explain it and
no more, and the whole as briefly as possible.
Sec. 5159. Where the decision objected to is entered on the record, and
the grounds of objection appear in the entry, the exception may be taken by
the party causing to be noted, at the end of the decision, that he excepts.
Sec. 5160. Where the decision is not entered on the record, or the grounds
of objection do not sufficiently appear in the entry, the party excepting must
reduce his exception to writing, and present it to the judge for his allowance
and signature. If true, it shall be the duty of the judge to allow and sign it;
whereupon it shall be filed with the pleadings as part of the record, but not
spread at large on the order-book. If the writing is not true, the judge shall
correct it, or suggest the correction to be made, and, when corrected, sign it.
Sec. 5161. If the party excepting is not satisfied with the correction, upon
his procuring the signatures of two bystanders attesting the truth of his excep
tion as by him prepared, the same shall be filed as part of the record ; but the
(t) The three years begin to run from the date of Judgment, though an appeal has been taken. Jacks v.
Adair, 33—161. Bills of review are not abolished. Ib. : Turner v. Vamjhan, Ib., 454.
(hhh) There should be Included In bill of exceptions an answer tendered, but not filed. HurVburt v. Manu
facturing Co., SK—MM, and the following : Motion for new trial. Gaines r. Summers, 39—182 ; Farquharton v.
Johnson, 35—536." Bxcluded evidence. Pounders v. Slate. 37—399. Instructions. Johnson r. Terry, 35—220;
Carroll r. Bowler, 40—168. Declarations of law. Hall v. Bonrille, 36—491. A paper stricken from the files.
HarreU v. Tenant, 30—68-1. Documentary evidence. Wool/olk r. Wright, 28—1. And an agreed statement of
facts. Asfiley v. Stoddard, 26—653. The bill must be signed by the judge trying the cause. Walking v. Slate,
37—370. Turner v. Collier, Ib., 528. Who may be compelled to sign it by mandamus. Garibaldi r. Carroll, 33—
568. It must be filed. Walker v. State, 35—386; TMverv. State, Ib., 395. And it must show that it contains all
the evidence. Ilibbard v. Kirby, 38—102 ; Potter r. State, -12—30. Though that fact may be Inferred from other
statements In it. I^otiett v. Grimmett, 36—496; Thomas v. Ilinkle, 35—450. Time can not be extended beyond
the next term. Carroll v. Sanders, 38—216. And if filed too late it is a nullity. Ib. ; Kearney v. Moose,
37—37. Bill of exceptions may be filed in a chancery cause. Casteel v. Cnsteel, 38—177; Lcmay v. Johnson,
35—225. But in chancery, papers on file are parts of the record. Floyd v. McDanicl, 36—484. Evidence
and declarations of law are not made part of the record by being copied on the record of the court. Hall
r. BonmUe, 36—491 ; Ward r. Worthington, 33—830. Papers Inserted in a motion for a new trial are no part
of the record. Winkler v. State, 32—539. A statement in the bin of exceptions that an appeal was granted Is
no evidence of that fact. Anthony v. Brooks, 31—725. A reference in it to evidence not copied in it may be
sufficient. Jacks v. Dyer, 31—334. And so of instructions, if they are so referred to as that they may be identi
fied. Stirman r. Cravens, 29—548. Exceptions arc not necessary where error appears on the face of the judg
ment. Union County r. Smith, 34—684. An answer copied on a bill of exceptions will not be noticed on
appeal. Randolph v. McCain, 34—696.
When different judges preside during the progress of a trial, each should sign a bill of exceptions as to
the proceedings before him. Bullock v. Neal, 42—278 ; CowaH v. Altehul, 40—172. When time Is given to reduce
exceptions to writing, the bill of exceptions must be filed within the time allowed. Adler v. Conway County,
42—488. When properly signed and filed, it becomes a record without any order of court making it so. Bul
lock v. Neai, Ib., 278.
.truth. "6f the exceptions may be controverted and maintained by affidavits,
\ 1»{Jt exceeding five in number on each side, to be filed with the clerk within
ten days after the filing of the exception, which affidavits shall be a part of the
record.
Sec. 5162. No exception shall be regarded, unless it is material and preju
dicial to the substantial rights of the party excepting. Ib., sees. 365-370.
Sec. 5163. A judgment is the final determination of the rights of the par
ties in an action.
May be Given For or Against One or More of the Plaintiffs or Defendants.
Sec. 5164. Judgment may be given for or against one or more of several
plaintifffs and for or against one or more of several defendants.
Sec. 5165. In an action against several defendants, the court may, in its
discretion, render judgment against one or more of them, leaving the action to
proceed against the others whenever a several judgment is proper. Ib., sees.
399-401.
Sec. 5166. In any ease where a set-off or counterclaim has been presented,
the defendant shall have the right of proceeding to the trial of his claim,
although the plain tiff may have dismissed his action or failed to appear.
SEC. 5167. Though all the defendants have been summoned, judgment
may be rendered against any of them severally, where the plaintifff would be
entitled to judgments against such defendants if the action had been against
them alone (iii).
Upon Foreclosure of Mortgage or Lien.
SEC. 5168. It shall not be necessary, in any action upon a mortgage or lien,
to enter an interlocutory judgment or give time for the payment of money, or
for doing any other act; but final judgment may in such cases be given in the
first instance.
Sec. 5169. In the foreclosure of a mortgage, a sale of the mortgaged property
shall in all cases be ordered (jjj). Ib., sees. 403-406.
Sec. 5170. In an action on a mortgage or lien, the judgment may be ren
dered for the sale of the property and for the recovery of the debt against the
defendant personally (*). 76., sec. 408.
Sec. 5171. Sales of personal property made by order of court shall be on a
credit of three months; sales of real property on a credit of not less than three
nor more than six months, or on installments equivalent to not more than four
(111) Joint obligations " have the same effect as joint and several obligations." Sec. 3900. Where two or
more persons are jointly bound by contract, action may be brought against all or any oi them. Sec. 4944.
Persons severally liable upon the same contract, Including parties to bills of exchange, promissory notes, etc.,
may all or any of them, or the heirs or personal representatives of stich as may have died, be included in the
same action. Sec. 4943, and see Sec. 482, as to parties to actions on notes, etc.
(jjj) SEC. Mortgages.
(") In foreclosing a mortgage against the heir of the mortgagor, it is error to render a personal decree
against him for the debt Harbison v. Vavghan, 42—539.
months' credit on the whole, to be determined by the court (kkk). In all sales
on credit, the purchaser shall execute bond, with good surety, to be approved by
the person making the sale, which bond shall have the force of a judgment,
and, in sales of real property, a lien shall be retained on the property for its
price. 76., sec. 407.
Sec. 5172. If the whole of the mortgaged property does not sell for a sum sufficient to satisfy the amount due, an execution may be issued against the
defendant, as on ordinary judgments. Rev. Stat., chap. 101, sec. 17. »
How Set Off.
Sec. 51 73. Judgments for the recovery of money may be set off against each
other, having due regard to the legal and equitable rights of all persons inter
ested in both judgments. The set-off may be ordered, upon motion, after rea
sonable notice to the adverse party, where both judgments are in the same
court, or in an action by equitable proceedings in the court in which the judg
ment sought to be annulled by the set-off was rendered.
SEC. 5174. During the pendency of an action the judgment in which, when
recovered, could be used as a set-off against a judgment in favor of the defend
ants, or either of them, the court, to prevent loss by insolvency, non-residence
or otherwise, may enjoin the collection of the judgment in favor of such defend
ants, according to the provisions of Chapter LXXXI, entitled " Injunction."
Civil Code, sees. 409, 410.
Sec. 5175. If the taking of an account, or the proof of a fact, or the as
sessment of damages, is necessary to enable the court to pronounce judgment
upon a failure to answer, or after a decision of an issue of law, the court may
take the account, hear the proof, and, in actions founded on contract, assess the
p damages, or may refer the same to a commissioner, or may direct the same to
be ascertained or assessed by a jury. If a jury is ordered, it shall be on or after
the day on which the action is set for trial.
Sec. 5176. If only a part of the plaintifff's claim is controverted by the de
fendant's answer, judgment may at any time be rendered for the part not con
troverted. 76., sees. 411, 412.
Upon the Verdict of a Jury.
SEC. 5177. When a trial by a jury has been had, judgment must be entered
by the clerk in conformity with the verdict, unless it is special, or the court
orders the case to be reserved for future argument or consideration.
SEC. 5178. Where the verdict is special, or where there has been a special
finding on particular questions of fact, or where the court has ordered the case
to be reserved, it shall order what judgment shall be entered.
SEC. 5179. Where, upon the statements in the pleadings, one party is enti(kkk) All saleH made by order of the court must be on credit. Welch v. Hicke, 27—292. And see note (1) to
Sec. 3048.
As to sales of property In proceedings by attachment, see Secs. 333, 348, 350.
tled by law to judgment in his favor, judgment shall be so entered by the court,
though a verdict has been found against such party.
SEC. 5180. If a set-off established at the trial exceeds the plaintifff's claim
so established, judgment for the defendant must be given for the excess; or, if
it appears that the defendant is entitled to any other affirmative relief judg
ment shall be given therefore.
SEC. 5181. In an action to recover the possession of personal property,

judgment for the plaintifff may be for the delivery of the property, or for the
value thereof, in case a delivery can not be had, and damages for the deten
tion (Ill). Where the property has been delivered to the plaintifff, and the
defendant claims a return thereof, judgment for the defendant may be for the
return of the property, or its value, in case a return can not be had, and
damages for the taking and withholding of the property.
SEC. 5182. Where special damages are given by statute, and it appears by
the verdict of the jury, or other decision of the action, that such special dam
ages are due and recoverable by one of the parties against the other, the court
shall render judgment for them; and if, in ascertaining the amount thereof, it
is necessary to assess the value of any property, or amount of any debt or
claim, the court may hear the proof and assess such value or amount, or have
the same made by a jury.

SEC. 5183. The judgment must be entered on the order-book, and specify
clearly the relief granted, or other determination of the action.
SEC. 5184. It shall not be necessary to reserve, in a judgment or order, the
right of an infant to show cause against it after his attaining full age; but

in any case in which, but for this section, such a reservation would have
been proper, the infant, within twelve months after arriving at the age of
twenty-one years, may show cause against such order or judgment (mmm).
Ib., secs. 416–423.
By Confession.
SEC. 5185.

Any person indebted, or against whom a cause of action exists,

may personally appear in a court of competent jurisdiction, and, with the
assent of the creditor or person having such cause of action, confess judgment
therefore, whereupon judgment shall be entered accordingly.
SEC. 5186. The debt or cause of action shall be briefly stated in the judg
ment, or in a writing, to be filed as pleadings in other actions.
SEC. 5187. Such judgment shall authorize the same proceedings for its
enforcement as judgments rendered in actions regularly brought and prosecuted,
and the confession shall operate as a release of errors. Ib., secs. 413–415.
In Cases of Constructive Service.

SEC. 5188. A defendant constructively summoned shall be allowed, at any
time before judgment, to appear and defend the action; and, upon a substan
tial defense being disclosed, time may be given on reasonable terms to prepare
for trial.
(Ill.) For verdict in such case, see SEC. 5145, Judgment must be in the alternative.
(mmm) As to procedure by infant in such cases, see SEC. 3911.

Hanf v. Ford, 37–550.
Sec. 5189. The statements of the complaint, as against a defendant con
structively summoned, and who who has not appeared, except such as are for
his benefit, shall not be taken as true, but are to be established by proof. But
where the plaintifff files with the complaint his own affidavit, stating that any
of the allegations thereof recited in the affidavit are true, and known to be so
by the defendant, and that they can not be proved or shown otherwise than by
his answer, so far as affiant knows or believes such allegations, unless denied
by the answer, shall be taken as true.
Sec. 5190. Before judgment is rendered against a defendant constructively
summoned, and who has not appeared, it shall be necessary:
First. That an attorney be appointed, at least sixty days before the judg
ment is rendered, to defend for the defendant and inform him of the action
and of such other matters as may be useful to him in preparing for his defense.
He may take any step in the progress of the action, except filing an answer,
without it having the effect of entering the appearance of such defendant.
The attorney may be appointed by the clerk when the warning order is made,
or by the court, and shall receive a reasonable compensation for his services, to
be paid by the plaintifff and taxed in the costs (nnn).
Second. That a bond be executed to such defendant by one or more
sufficient sureties of the plaintifff, to the effect that if the defendant, within the
period prescribed by law, shall appear, make defense and set aside the judg
ment, the plaintifff shall restore to him the property taken under any attach
ment in the action, or under the judgment therein, the restoration of which
may be adjudged, and pay to the defendant such sums of money as the court
may award to him.
Third. That in suits brought by the personal representative or creditor of
a deceased person to have a settlement of his estate and a sale of his real estate
for the payment of his debts, and the heirs or devisees are non-residents, it shall
not be required of the personal representative, or any creditor, to execute the
bond required by this section.
SEC. 5191. The attorney appointed pursuant to the last section shall be a
regular practicing attorney of the court; and, before an order for his compen
sation is made, he must make a written statement of all that he has done in
the case, which shall be signed by him and filed with the papers of the action.
SEC. 5192. If the bond mentioned in section 5190 is not given, the court
may enter a judgment ascertaining the rights of the parties, but shall retain
control over and preserve any property, or the proceeds thereof, which may
have been attached in the action, until the expiration of the period allowed to
the defendant to appear and make defense; when, if no defense is made, such
money or property, or its proceeds, shall be delivered according to the
judgment.
SEC. 5193. Before rendering judgment against a defendant constructively
summoned, and who has not appeared, the court may cause the plaintifff to
appear personally in court, or before a commissioner, and answer, under oath,
interrogatories concerning the matters in the complaint, or any matters of
defense thereto, including matters of set-off or counterclaim, and may order
(mm) Attorney ad litem may demur without eutering defendant's appearance. Henry v. Blackburn
32—445.
the examination to be reduced to writing and filed with the papers of the
action.
SEC. 5194. If, upon the examination provided in the last section, any
matters of set-off or counterclaim are disclosed, the same may be adjusted and
allowed in the judgment.
SEC. 5195. Where a judgment has been rendered against a defendant or
defendants constructively summoned, and who did not appear, such defendants,
or any one or more of them, may, at any time within five years after the ren
dition of the judgment, appear in court and move to have the action re-tried;
and, security for the costs being given, they shall be admitted to make defense;
and thereupon the action shall be re-tried as to such defendants, as if there had
been no judgment; and, upon the new trial, the court may confirm the former
judgment, or may modify or set it aside, and may order the plaintifff to restore
any money of such defendant paid to him under it or any property of the
defendant obtained by the plaintifff under it and yet remaining in his possession,
and pay to the defendant the value of any property which may have been
taken under an attachment in the action, or under the judgment, and not
restored. But the provisions of this section shall not apply to judgments
granting a divorce except so far as relates to alimony.
SEC. 5196. The plaintifff may at any time after judgment cause a certified
copy thereof to be served on a defendant constructively summoned; whereupon
the period in which such defendant is allowed to appear and have a new trial
shall be reduced to one year after such service.

SEC. 5197. The service of the copy of the judgment, if in this state, shall be
made and proved in the same manner as the service of a summons; and, if out
of this state, in the manner prescribed in section 4987 as to the service of a
copy of the complaint and summons and proof thereof.

SEC. 5198. The title of purchasers in good faith to any property sold under
an attachment or judgment shall not be affected by the new trial permitted by
section 5195, exeept the title of property obtained by the plaintifff and not
bought of him in good faith by others.

SEC. 5199. No lien on the property of a defendant constructively sum
moned shall be created otherwise than by an attachment, as provided in chap.
ter IX, “Attachments,” or by judgment. Nor shall any other defendant be

restrained from paying or delivering any money or property in his hands
belonging or due to such defendant, by notice indorsed on the summons, or
otherwise than by attachment or judgment.

SEc. 5200. No personal judgment shall be rendered against a defendant
constructively summoned, or summoned out of this state, as provided in sec
tion 4987, and who has not appeared in the action (£). Ib., secs. 443–455.
SEC. 5201. All judgments, orders, sentences and decrees made, rendered or

pronounced by any of the courts of this state against any one without notice,

actual or constructive, and all proceedings had under such judgments, orders,
sentences or decrees, shall be absolutely null and void.

SEc. 5202. In all cases where it appears, from a recital in the records of
any such court, that such notice has been given, it shall be evidence of such
fact (ooo).
Act Feb. 17, 1859.
(1) See Silver v. Luck, 42-268.
(ooo) See Coons v. Throckmorton, 25–60.
order and motion, definition of.
Sec. 5203. Every direction of a court or judge entered upon the orderbook, or made in writing, in a civil action, and not included in the judgment,
is denominated an order.
Sec. 5204. An application for an order is a motion.
SEC. 5205. The notices mentioned in the code shall be in writing, and may
be served by a sheriff, constable, coroner or marshal of a town or city, whose
return thereon shall be proof of the service. Notices may also be served by
any person not a party or interested in the action or proceeding, whose affidavit
shall be proof of the service, or by acknowledgment thereon in writing by the
party upon whom served.
Sec. 5206. The service of a notice shall be by giving a copy thereof to the
person to whom it is directed, or, if he can not be found at his usual place of
abode, by leaving a copy there with a person over the age of sixteen years
residing in the same family with him, or, if no such person is there, then by
affixing a copy to the front door of such place of abode. If the person to
whom the notice is directed can not be found, and has no known place of abode
in this state, the notice may be served by delivering a copy to his attorney.
The return of the officer, or the affidavit of the person who served the notice,
shall state the time and manner of the service; and where a copy of the notice
is not given to the person to whom it is directed, the return or affidavit shall
state the facts authorizing the manner of service pursued.
Sec. 5207. Where the party has no known place of abode in this state, and
no attorney in the county where the action is pending, or where the parties,
plaintifffs or defendants, are numerous, the court may direct the mode of serv
ing notices, and to what persons they shall be given.
SEC. 5208. A notice to an infant or person of unsound mind shall be served
on the guardian or next friend bringing or defending the action for him.
Sec. 5209. A notice to a corporation may be served in the same manner as
a summons in an action against it.
Sec. 5210. Where husband and wife unite in bringing or defending an
action, the service of a notice on the husband shall be deemed a service on the
wife.
SEC. 5211. A notice to a person constructively summoned, and not appear
ing, shall be served on the attorney appointed to defend for him.
SEC. 5212. Where it is not otherwise specially provided, a notice to a party
in an action of any motion or proceeding to be made or taken therein in court,
or before a judge, may be served upon such party or his attorney; but the serv
ice upon the attorney in any such case must be by delivering to him a copy
of the notice.
SEC. 5213. Where a party to an action does not reside in the county in
which it is pending, a notice to him to take depositions may be served by
delivering a c»py thereof to his attorney (ppp).
(ppp) See 8KOS. 2933, 2942.
SEc. 5214. It shall be the duty of the sheriff, and of every constable, to
whom any notice in an action may be delivered for service within his county,
to serve and return such notice to the party who delivered it to him. A failure :
to perform this duty may be punished as a disobedience of the process of the
court.
SEC. 5215. The defendant in an action for the recovery of money only
may, at any time before the trial, serve upon the plaintifff or his attorney an
offer in writing to allow judgment to be taken against him for the sum speci
cified therein. If the plaintifff accepts the offer, and gives notice thereof to the
defendant or his attorney within five days after the offer was served, the offer,
and an affidavit that the notice of acceptance was delivered in the time limited,
may be filed by the plaintifff, or the defendant may file the acceptance, with a
copy of the offer, verified by affidavit; and in either case the offer and accept
ance shall be noted upon the record, and judgment shall be rendered accord
ingly. If the notice of acceptance is not given in the period limited, the offer
shall be deemed withdrawn, and shall not be given in evidence or mentioned
on the trial. If the plaintifff fails to obtain judgment for more than was offered
by the defendant, he shall pay the defendant's costs from the time of the offer.
SEc. 5216. In an action for the recovery of money only, the defendant,
having answered, may serve upon the plaintifff or his attorney an offer in writ
ing that, if he fails in his defense, the amount of the recovery shall be assessed
at a specified sum. If the plaintifff accepts the offer and gives notice thereof
to the defendant or his attorney within five days after it was served, and the
defendant fails in his defense, the judgment shall be for the amount so agreed
upon. If the plaintifff does not accept the offer, he shall prove the amount to
be recovered, as if the offer had not been made. The offer shall not be given
in evidence or mentioned on the trial. And if the amount recovered by the
plaintifff does not exceed the sum mentioned in the offer, the defendant shall
recover his costs incurred in the defense in respect to the question of amount,
to be taxed under the direction of the court.
SEC. 5217. The making of any such offer shall not be a cause for a con
tinuance of an action or a postponement of a trial,
SUBMITTING A CONTROVERSY WITHOUT SUIT,
SEC. 5218. Parties to a question which might be the subject of a civil
action may, without action, agree upon a case containing the facts upon which
the controversy depends, and present a submission of the same to any court
which would have jurisdiction if an action had been brought. But it must appear by affidavit that the controversy is real, and the proceedings in good
faith, to determine the rights of the parties. The court shall thereupon hear
and determine the case, and render judgment as if an action were pending.
SEC. 5219. The case, the submission and the judgment shall constitute
the record.
SEC. 5220. The judgment shall be with costs, may be enforced, and shall be subject to reversal in the same manner as if it had been rendered in an
action, unless otherwise provided in the submission.
Sec. 5221. After an action for the recovery of money is brought, the de
fendant may offer in court to confess judgment for part of the amount claimed,
or part of the causes involved in the action. Whereupon, if the plaintifff,
being present, refuse to accept such confession of judgment in full of his
demands against the defendant in the action, or, having had such notice that
the offer would be made, of its amount, and the time of making it, as the
court shall deem reasonable, fails to attend, and on the trial does not recover
more than was so offered to be confessed, such plaintifff shall pay all of the costs
of the defendant incurred after the offer.
Sec. 5222. The offer shall not be deemed to be an admission of the cause
of action, or amount to which the plaintifff is entitled, nor be given in evi
dence upon the trial, lb., seen. 716-722.
Sec. 5223. For wrongs done to the person or property of another, an
action may be maintained against the wrong-deters, and such action may be
brought by the person injured, or, after his death, by his executor or adminis
trator, against such wrong-doer, or, after his death, against his executor or
administrator, in the same manner and with like effect in all respects as
actions founded on contracts (t).
Sec. 5224. Nothing in the preceding section shall be so construed as to
extend its provisions to actions of slander or libel. Rev. Stat., chap. 4, sees.
59-60.
Sec. 5225. Whenever the death of a person shall be caused by wrongful
act, neglect or default, and the act, neglect or default is such as would, if death
had not ensued, have entitled the party injured to maintain an action and
recover damages in respect thereof, then, and in ever}' such case, the person
who, or company or corporation which, would have been liable if death had not
ensued, shall be liable to an action for damages, notwithstanding the death of
the person injured, and although the death shall have been caused under such
circumstances as amount, in law, to a felony.
Sec. 5226. Every such action shall be brought by, and in the name of, the
personal representatives of such deceased person, and if there be no personal
representatives, then the same may be brought by the heirs at law of such
deceased person ; and the amount recovered in every such action shall be for
the exclusive benefit of the widow and next of kin of such deceased person,
and shall be distributed to such widow and next of kin, in the proportion pro
vided by law in relation to the distribution of personal property left by persons
dying intestate; and, in every such action, the jury may give such damages as
they shall deem a fair and just compensation, with reference to the pecuniary
injuries resulting from such death, to the wife and next of kin of such deceased
(t) Si-e WarJ t. Blackwood, 41—295.
person.
Provided, that every such action shall be commenced within two years

after the death of such person.

Act March 6, 1883.
SEc. 5227. Successive actions may be maintained upon the same contract
or transaction, whenever, after the former action, a new cause of action has
arisen therefrom. Civil Code, sec. 789.
Sec. 5228. All property obtained by larceny, robbery or burglary shall be
restored to the owner, and no sale, whether in good faith on the part of the purchaser or not, shall divest the owner of his right to such property.
SEC. 5229. Any person losing property or any valuable thing by larceny,
robbery or burglary may maintain his action, not only against such felon, but
against any person whatsoever in whose hands or possession the same may be
found.

Rev. Stat., chap. 44, art. 6, div. 4, secs. 3, 4.

SEc. 5230. In no case shall the right of action of any party injured by the
commission of a felony be deemed or adjudged to be merged in such felony,
but damages sustained thereby may be recovered in an action brought for that
purpose (qqq). Rev. Stat., chap. 45, sec. 264.
SEC. 5231. In all cases where suits may be instituted, and either plaintifff
or defendant may die pending the same, it shall be lawful for the court before
which such suit or suits may be pending, on the motion of any party inter
ested, to appoint a special administrator, in whose name the cause shall be
revived, and said suit or suits shall progress, in all respects, in his name with
like effect as if the plaintifff or defendant (as the case may be) had remained
in full life.
SEC. 5232. The powers of such special administrator shall extend and be
confined alone to the mere prosecution or defense of the particular suit or suits he may be appointed by the court to prosecute or defend.
SEc. 5233. No special administrator shall be appointed, as in this act pre
scribed, where there is a general administrator (*). No such special adminis
trator or executor shall be liable for costs of the suit, for the management
whereof he may be appointed. Act Jan. 10, 1851.
SEC. 5234. Where there are several plaintifffs or defendants in an action,
and one of them dies, or his powers as a personal representative cease, if the
right of action survives to or against the remaining parties, the action may pro
ceed, the death of the party or the cessation of his powers being stated on the
record.
SEC. 5235.
Where one of several plaintifffs or defendants dies, or his powers as a personal representative cease, if the cause of action does not admit of survivorship, and the court is of opinion that the merits of the controversy can be
properly determined, and the principles applicable to the case fully settled, it
may proceed to try the cause as between the remaining parties; but the judg
ment shall not prejudice any who were not parties at the time of the trial.
Sec. 5236. Where one. of the parties to an action dies, or his powers as a
personal representative cease, before the judgment, if the right of action sur
vives in favor of or against his representatives or successor, the action may be
revived and proceed in their names.
Sec. 5237. The revivor shall be by an order of the court, that the action
be revived in the names of the representatives or successor of the party who
died, or whose powers ceased, and proceed in favor of or against them (rrr).
Sec. 5238. The order may be made on the motion of the adverse party, or
of the representatives or successor of the party who died, or whose powers
ceased, suggesting his death or the cessation of his powers, which, with the
names and capacities of his representatives or successor, shall be stated in the
order.
SEC. 5239. If the order is made by the consent of the parties, the action
shall forthwith stand revived; and, if not made by consent, the order shall be
served in the same manner as a summons upon the party adverse to the one
making the motion. And at the first term, commencing not less than ten
days after such service, the party on whom it is made may show cause
against the revivor; and, if sufficient cause is not then shown, the cause
shall stand revived.
Sec. 5240. If ten days' notice has been given to the representatives or
successor of the party who died, or whose powers ceased, of the motion by the
adverse party for an order to revive the action in their names, or to the adverse
party, where the motion is by such representatives or successor, and due return
is made of the service of the notice, the court may, if sufficient cause is not
shown to the contrary, make an order reviving the action in the names of such
parties, whereupon the action shall stand revived.
SEC. 5241. Where it appears to the court, by the affidavit of the plaintifff,
that the representatives of the defendant, or any of them, in whose name the
action is ordered to be revived, are non-residents of this state, or have left the
same to avoid the service of the order, or have been absent therefrom four
months, or so conceal themselves that the order can not be served upon them,
or that the names of the heirs of the defendant against whom the action is
ordered to be revived, or of some of them, are unknown to the affiant, an order
may be made by the court warning such representatives or unknown heirs to
appear on the first day of its next term and show cause why the action should
not be revived against them. The parties 60 warned shall be deemed con
structively served with a copy of the order of revivor ten days before the term
at which they are warned to appear; and, if sufficient cause is not shown to
the contrary, the action shall, at that term, stand revived.
Sec. 5242. Upon the death of a plaintifff in an action, it may be revived
in the name of his representatives, to whom his right has passed. Where his
right has passed to his personal representative, the revivor shall be in his
(rrr) An order of revivor must be served on a Uliuor in the same way that a summons must be served.
Halty ». Tuytor, 39—106.
name (*); where it has passed to his heirs, or to his devisees, who could support
the action if brought anew, the revivor may be in their names.
SEC. 5243. Upon the death of a defendant in an action wherein the right,
or any part thereof, survives against his personal representative, the revivor
shall be against him; and it may also be against the heirs or devisees of the
defendant, or both; and where one year has elapsed after the death of the
defendant, and no person has qualified as his personal representative, the action
may be revived, and proceed against his heirs or devisees, or both.
SEC. 5244. Upon the death of a defendant in an action for the recovery of
real property only, or which concerns only his rights or claims to such property, the action may be revived against his heirs or devisees, or both, and an
order therfor may be forthwith made in the manner directed in the preceding
sections.
An order to revive an action against the personal representatives of a defendant, or against him and the heirs or devisees of the defendant,
can not be made, unless by consent, until after six months from the qualification of the personal representative.
SEc. 5246. An order to revive an action against the representatives or suc
cessor of a defendant shall not be made without the consent of such repre
sentatives or successor, unless in one year from the time it could have been
first made.
SEC. 5247. An order to revive an action in the names of the representa
tives or successor of a plaintifff may be made forthwith, but shall not be made
without the consent of the defendant after the expiration of one year from the
time the order might have been first made, except that, where the defendant
shall also have died or his powers have ceased in the meantime, the order of
revivor on both sides may be made in the period limited in the last section.
SEc. 5248. When it appears to the court by affidavit that either party to
an action has been dead, or, where he sues or is sued as a personal representative,
that his powers have ceased for a period so long that the action can not be
revived in the names of his representatives or successor without the consent of
both parties, it shall order the action to be stricken from the docket.
SEc. 5249. At any term of the court succeeding the death of the plaintifff,
whilst the action remains on the docket, the defendant having given to the plaintifff's proper representatives, in whose names the action might be revived,
ten days notice of the application therefore, may have an order to strike the
action from the docket, and for costs against the estate of the plaintifff, unless
the action is forth with revived.
SEC. 5250. When, by the provisions of the preceding sections, an action
stands revived, the trial thereof shall not be postponed by reason of the revivor,
if the action would have stood for trial at the term the revivor is complete, had
no death or cessation of powers taken place. Civil Code, secs. 549–565.
convKYANCE
SEc. 5251. Real property may be conveyed by a commissioner appointed
by the court:
(*) See Martin ". Tyrce, 41-314.
pleadings and practice.
First. Where, by the judgment in an action, a party is ordered to convey
such property to another.
Second. Where such property has been sold under a judgment or order of
the court, and the purchase money paid.
SEC. 5252. The deed of the commissioner shall so refer to the judgment,
orders and proceedings authorizing the conveyance as that the same may be
readily found.
Sec. 5253. A conveyance made in pursuance of a judgment shall pass to
the grantee the title of the parties ordered to convey the land.
SEC. 5254. A conveyance made in pursuance of a sale ordered by the court
shall pass to the grantee the title of all the parties to the action or proceeding.
Sec. 52-55. After a conveyance is ordered or adjudged, if any of the par
ties shall die, it shall not be necessary to revive the action, but the conveyance,
in pursuance of the judgment or order, shall be effectual to pass the title, not
withstanding the death of any of the parties.
Sec. 5256. A conveyance by a commissioner shall not pass any right until
it has been examined and approved by the court, which approval shall be
indorsed on the conveyance and recorded with it (sss).
SEC. 5257. It shall be necessary for the conveyance to be signed by the
commissioner only, without affixing the names of the parties whose title is
conveyed; but the names of such parties shall be recited in the body of the
conveyance.
SEC. 5258. The conveyance shall be recorded in the office in which, by
law, it should have been recorded had it been made by the parties whose title
is conveyed by it. Civil Code, sees. 428-435.
MASTERS IN CHANCERY.
SEC. 5259. The several circuit courts of this state shall have power to
appoint in each county a master in chancery, who shall hold his office during
the pleasure of the court (ttt).
SEC. 5260. Each master in chancery shall have power to take testimony
and to administer oaths and to compel the attendance of witnesses in all matters
referred to him, and to do and perform all such other ministerial acts as are
commonly performed by a master in chancery.
SEC. 5261. There shall be but one master at a time in any one county,
unless the master be of kin to either of the parties, or is interested in any
cause, or is absent from the county. In such 'cases a special master may be
appointed.
SEC. 5262. Every master, before entering on the duties of his appointment,
shall be sworn, in open court, faithfully and impartially to perform the duties
of his appointment, which shall be entered on the minutes!
SEC. 5263. All matters of account pending in chancery may be referred by
the court to the master, and he shall audit and adjust the same, and make re
port thereof to the court.
SEC. 5264. When any matter shall be referred to the master, or he is re
quired to take testimony in a cause, he shall appoint the time and place for
(sss) Until confirmed, the sole is not completed. Wellt v. Riee, 34—346.
(ttt) The county clerk Is ex officio master. Sec. 538.
proceeding therein, and give notice thereof, in writing, to the parties or their
solicitors, and if either party, being notified, shall fail to appear, he may pro
ceed ex parte (uuu).
SEC. 5265. The master may adjourn his sittings from time to time, and
issue attachments to compel the attendance of witnesses who, being summoned,
failed to attend.
SEC. 5266.
He shall reduce to writing the testimony of all witnesses examined by him, and shall have power to commit such witnesses as may refuse to
testify.
SEC. 5267. Depositions, regularly taken in a cause, may be read in evidence
before the master, where the cause has been referred to him.
SEC. 5268.
When accounts have been referred to the master, after having heard the testimony adduced by the parties, he shall state them truly, accord
ing to his opinion, and, if the parties require it, also according to the views of
each of them.
SEC. 5269. If either party shall except to the competency of any witness,
or to the admission or exclusion of any evidence, the master, if required, shall
state the particulars of the exceptions in his report.
SEC. 5270. The master shall report on all cases referred to him as speedily
as possible, reciting in his report the order of the court referring the cause to
him, the notice to the parties, the time and place of stating the account or tak
ing depositions, and all other proceedings had therein, and return the same,
together with the testimony, to the court. The report shall be in sheets, neatly
and securely stitched together.
SEC. 5271. All exceptions to the master's report shall be in writing, and
shall be made within four days after the first day of the term of the court at
which the report is made, if the term so long continue, and, if not, before the
end of the term, and shall be disposed of without delay.
SEC. 5272. The report shall stand good, except such parts as are excepted
to, unless it shall appear on the face of the report or from the evidence in the
cause that it is erroneous.
SEc. 5273. Exceptions may be allowed to the master's report where he ad
mitted incompetent testimony, or where he excluded competent testimony, or for any other cause which may be adjudged good by the court, or when it shall
be apparent from the face of the report that injustice has been done.
SEc. 5274. When exceptions are allowed, the court may refer the report to
the master again, with such instructions as may be necessary.
SEC. 5275. In all cases where no exceptions are filed to the master's report
within the time prescribed in this act, or where the exceptions have been over
ruled, a decree shall be entered up accordingly.
SEc. 5276. Where exceptions have been allowed to the master's report, and the account shall have been restated by the court or master, a decree shall be
entered accordingly.
Rev. Stat., chap. 23, secs. 71–89.
SEc. 5277. Whenever it shall not be forbidden by law, and shall be deemed
fair and proper in any case in equity, the court, judge or chancellor shall ap
(uuu) As to who may serve notice, see SEC. 5205.
(vvv) See note (www) post.
point some prudent and discreet person as receiver, who shall take an oath
faithfully, impartially, diligently and truly to execute the trust reposed in him,
and shall also give bond, with good and sufficient security, to be approved by
the court or judge or chancellor, in such sum as may be deemed sufficient, to
the State of Arkansas, for the benefit of all persons in interest, conditioned that
he will faithfully discharge the duties incumbent on him, and faithfully ac
count for and pay into court, at such times as the court or law may prescribe,
or according to the order of the court, all monies or assets which shall come to
his hands as such receiver in the case, which shall be filed, and a certified copy
thereof shall be received as evidence in all courts (f).
Sec. 5278. Additional bonds may be required and taken at any time when
the same shall be necessary, and in such amounts as shall be sufficient to se
cure a faithful performance of the trust; and such receiver may be appointed
either before or after answer or after a decree, and affidavits to obtain such
appointment shall not be required when it appears by other means to the satis
faction of the court, judge or chancellor that such appointment should be
made.
Sec. 5279. If it shall be necessary, more receivers than one may be ap
pointed, who shall take an oath and give bond, and be subject to the duties,
liabilities, responsibilities and restrictions specified in this act.
SEC. 5280. After the receiver shall take the oath and give bond as required
by this act, he shall possess all the powers which a receiver in a court of chan
cery can have or possess, unless otherwise provided in this act.
SEC. 5281. In all cases where it shall be necessary or proper for a receiver
to collect debts by suit, he may sue in his own name, but all monies collected
by him shall be accounted for and paid into court, or be subject to the order of
the court, judge or chancellor ; and said receiver shall have power to employ
attorneys and make to them a reasonable allowance for services, and to be paid
out of the funds collected by him.
Sec. 5282. No receiver shall be required to give security in any appeal or
writ of error, or to obtain an injunction in any suit it may be his duty to pros
ecute or defend, but an appeal taken or writ of error sued out by him shall ipso
facto operate as a supersedeas.
SEC. 5283. Whenever, in any case, a receiver shall be appointed for a cor
poration or the trustees thereof, or any co-partnership or joint stock company,
and the order or decree of the court, judge or chancellor shall be that the lands,
tenements, goods, chattels, funds, assets, monies, credits, choses in action, rights
and interests of every kind, name and nature, either in law or equity, or any
part thereof, belonging to the same, shall be placed in the hands of such re
ceiver, he shall from thenceforward, until the further order or decree of the.
court, judge or chancellor, have full possession, custody and control thereof, and
shall be vested with the title, so far as it shall be necessary to collect debts, pre
serve the assets and property for the benefit of creditors and all persons inter
ested, and may and shall bring and prosecute and defend all suits in his own
name that may be necessary for that purpose.
SEC. 5284. In all suits that may be pending in any court, prosecuted by or
brought against such corporation, or trustees, or co-partnership, or joint stock
company, or in which either may be interested, such receiver may be substituted
(t) See Sec. 5291.
as a party, on his own application, without process or revivor, and prosecute
or defend the same with like effect as the original parties might or could do,
and suits may progress against him by substitution in the same manner.
SEc. 5285. The provisions of the three preceding sections shall apply to
cases between individuals with like effect, as above declared.
SEC. 5286. Receivers may be removed at any time by the court, judge or
chancellor, when it shall satisfactorily appear that they have failed to discharge
any duty incumbent on them, or for other sufficient cause, and others appointed
who shall be subject to the provisions of this act, and this may be done upon
the motion of any person interested, either as party, creditor, or otherwise.
SEc. 5287. Receivers shall make report of their proceedings every six
months, or oftener, if required by the court, judge or chancellor, and the per
formance of this duty may be enforced by attachment, sequestration, or other
proper and effectual means, and they shall have credit for all taxes, expenses,
attorney's fees and necessary disbursements, in the execution of their trusts,
and such reasonable and proper compensation for their own services as the
court, judge or chancellor may allow, to be paid out of the trust fund as part
of the costs and expenses, and the court, judge or chancellor shall pass on their
accounts, and a confirmation thereof shall be conclusive against all persons
whatsoever, and not subject to be reinvestigated, except for actual fraud (www).
Act Jan. 15, 1857.
SEC. 5288. In an action by a vendor to vacate a fraudulent purchase of
property, or by a creditor to subject any property or fund to his claim, or
between partners or others jointly owning or interested in any property or fund, on the application of plaintifff or of any party whose right to or interest
in the property or fund or the proceeds thereof is probable, and where it is
shown that the property or fund is in danger of being lost, removed or materi
ally injured, the court may appoint a receiver to take charge thereof during
the pendency of the action, and may order and coerce the delivery of it to
him (xxx).
SEC. 5289. In an action by a mortgagee for the foreclosure of his mortgage
and the sale of the mortgaged property, a receiver may in like manner be
appointed where it appears that the mortgaged property is in danger of being
lost, removed or materially injured, or that the condition of the mortgage has
not been performed, and that the property is probably insufficient to discharge
the mortgage debt.
SEc. 5290. No party or attorney, or person interested in an action, shall be appointed receiver therein.
SEc. 5291. Before entering upon his duties, the receiver must be sworn to
perform them faithfully, and, with one or more sureties approved by the court,
execute a bond to such person and in such sum as the court shall direct, to the
effect that he will faithfully discharge the duties of receiver in the action, and obey the orders of the court therein (*).
SEc. 5292. The receiver has, under the control of the court, power to bring
and defend actions, to take and keep possession of the property, to receiverents,
(www.) This act was not repealed by the code. Franklin v. Meyer, 36–96.
(xxx) A receiver may be appointed to take charge of choses in action or property attached or in the hands
: of garnishee. SEcs. 335, 842.
•
(*) See SEC. 5277.
collect debts, and generally do such acts respecting the property as the court
may authorize. Civil Code, sees. 323-327.
Sec. 5293. Where it is admitted, by the pleading or examination of a
party, that he has in his possession, or under his control, any money, or other
thing capable of delivery, which, being the subject of the litigation, is held by
him as trustee for another party, or which belongs or is due to another party,
the court may order the same to be deposited in court, or delivered to such
party, with or without security, subject to the further direction of the court.
Sec. 5294. Whenever, in the exercise of its authority, a court has ordered
the deposit or delivery of money or other thing, and the order is disobeyed, the
court, besides punishing the disobedience, may make an order requiring the
sheriff to take the money or thing, and deposit or deliver it in conformity with
its directions.
Sec. 5295. The court may direct the sheriff to keep safely any property
delivered pursuant to the foregoing provisions, and may allow him the necessary
expenses attending the same, to be paid by such party as the court shall direct,
and taxed in the costs of the action.
Sec. 5296. It may confide to the sheriff money deposited or paid into court,
which shall be kept by him under the same requirements and responsibilities
of himself and his sureties as are provided by law in respect to money deposited
in lieu of bail.
SEC. 5297. A court sitting in a county in which, or in any county adjoining
which, there is a bank, or a branch of a bank, created by the laws of this state or
the United States, transacting regular banking business, may order money paid
into court to be deposited in such bank or branch to the credit of the court, in
the action or proceeding in which the money was paid. Money so deposited
shall be paid only upon the check of the clerk of the court annexed to its
certified order for the payment, and in favor of the person to whom the order
directs the payment to be made.
SEC. 5298. Money deposited or paid into the court in any action shall not
be loaned out by the court, unless with the consent of all the parties having an
interest in or making claim to the same. Ib., sees. 328-333.
SEC. 5299. When any bond provided for by law is adjudged to be defective,
a new and sufficient one may be executed in such reasonable time as the court
may fix, with the same effect as if originally executed.
Sec. 5300. The ministerial officer whose duty it is to take a surety irr any .
bond provided for by law shall have the right to require the person offered as
surety to make affidavit of his qualification, which affidavit may be made
before such officer; but any person interested may contest -the sufficiency of
such surety upon the making of such affidavit. Provided, it is made to appear
that such surety is not sufficient, and an officer who, in gogd faith, complies
with this section shall be exempt from any liability. to which he'might other
wise be subject for taking insufficient surety.
SEc. 5301. The surety in every bond provided for by law must be a resi
dent of this state, and worth double the sum to be secured beyond the amount
of his debts, and have property liable to execution in this state equal to the
sum to be secured.
Where there are two or more sureties in the same bond
they must, in the aggregate, have the qualifications prescribed in this section.
Ib., secs. 785–787.
SEC. 5302. No attorney, solicitor or counselor at law or in equity, clerk,
sheriff or other person concerned in the execution of any process shall become
bail in any civil or criminal case without leave of the court, which shall be en
tered of record.
Rev. Stat., chap. 116, sec. 23.
SEC. 5303. The bond of no executor, administrator or guardian, nor any
prosecution, appeal, non-resident or attachment bond, nor any other statutory
bond of any party, plaintifff or defendant in any court, nor any recognizance in
any criminal cause, shall be declared null and void for the want of form. Pro
vided, that the intent of the same can be plainly deducible from the body of
such bond or recognizance.

Act Jan. 15, 1857.
SEc. 5304. All writs and other judicial process shall run in the name of
the State of Arkansas, bear test and be signed by the clerks of the respective
courts from which they issue. Art. VII, sec. 49, Const.
SEC. 5305. All such writs shall be sealed with the judicial seal of such
court.

SEc. 5306. All writs and process issued by any judge or justice of the
peace, or other officer authorized to issue the same, shall run in the name of the
State of Arkansas, and be signed by the officer issuing the same.

SEc. 5307. When any writ or other process shall not be executed, the clerk,
on the application of the party suing out the same, shall issue an alias, pluries
or other proper process without an order of the court for that purpose. Rev.
Stat., chap. 159, secs. 2, 3, 8.
SEC. 5308. No summons or order for a provisional remedy shall be issued
by the clerk in any action before the plaintifff's complaint or petition therein
is filed in his office.

SEC. 5309. It shall be no objection to any process, writ, summons, affidavit
or order for a provisional remedy that it was issued, made or is dated on a holi
day; nor shall it be an objection to any bond given by or for any party to an
action, or taken by an officer in the course of the same, that it was made or is
dated on any such day.

SEc. 5310.

A summons or order for a provisional remedy may be issued on

any holiday, except Sunday, and on Sunday where an affidavit of the plaintifff
or some other person is made to the effect that, unless it is issued on that day,
there is reasonable cause to believe that it can not be executed,
SEc. 5311. An order of attachment, or for the delivery of property, may be executed on any holiday except Sunday, and on Sunday when the officer having the process believes, or an affidavit of the plaintifff or some other person is
made to the effect that the affiant believes, that the property is about to be con
cealed or removed, or that the process can not be executed after such holiday.
(yyy) Courts always have control over their own process. Hinkle v. Bau, 34–177; King v. Clay, Ib, 291.
Sec. 5312. A summons, subpoena, notice, order of arrest or of injunction
may be issued on any holiday, except Sunday, and on Sunday where the officer
having the process believes, or an affidavit of the plaintifff or some other person
is made to the effect that affiant believes, that the process can not be executed
after such holiday.
Sec. 5313. The defendant shall have no privilege of exemption from the
service of the process mentioned in the last section, except from an arrest by
reason of his attendance at any muster, election or order of survey, or as a wit
ness at any court or other place.
Sec. 5314. An order for a provisional remedy or Any other process, in an
action wherein the sheriff is a party or is interested, shall be directed to the
coroner, or, if he is interested, to some constable.
SEC. 5315. The court, for good cause, may appoint a person to serve a par
ticular process or order, who shall have the same power to execute it which a
sheriff has. The person may be appointed on the motion of the party obtain
ing the process or order, and the return must be verified by his affidavit. He
shall be entitled to the fees allowed to the sheriff for similar services. Civil
Code, sees. 762-769.
SEC. 5316. Every officer to whom any writ shall be delivered to be ex
ecuted shall indorse thereon the time when such writ came to his hands, and
shall make return thereof in writing, and shall sign his name to such return,
and set out how and in what manner he executed the same. Rev. Stat., chap.
116, sec. 20.
SEC. 5317. The act known as the " Code of Practice in Civil Cases," ap
proved July 22, 1868, as amended by this act, shall constitute and regulate all
civil practice and proceedings in all the courts of this state, and all other acts
prescribing or regulating the practice in civil actions in the courts of this state
are hereby repealed. Civil Code, sec. 890, as amended by act March 27, 1871.
Section
5318. Unlawful to sell poisons without label.
5319. Record of sales of poisons required to be
5320. Declares certain articles to be poisons.
Section
5321. Act does not apply to prescriptions.
5322. Penalty for violation of act.
Section 5318. It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, either at wholesale
or retail, any of the drugs usually denominated poisons without distinctly label
ing the bottle, box or packages with the name of the article and the word
" poison," together with the name and place of business of the seller.
SEC. 5319. It shall be the duty of every person selling a poison at retail,
before delivering the same, to make, or cause to be made, an entry in a book
kept for that purpose, stating the date of sale, name of poison, quantity, for
what purpose, name, sex or color of the purchaser, or for whom purchased, resi


