CODE OF PRACTICE

IN

CIVIL CASES IN ARKANSAS.

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Arkansas, as follows:

PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS.

SEC. 1. This act shall be known as the Code of Practice in Civil Cases in this State.

SEC. 2. Remedies in civil cases in this State are divided
into two classesFirst—Actions.

Second—Special Proceedings.

SEC. 3. A civil action is an ordinary proceeding in a
court of justice, by one party against another, for the enforcement or protection of a private right, or the redress or prevention of a private wrong. It may also be brought for the
recovery’ of a penalty or forfeiture.

SEC. 4. Every other remedy in a. civil case is a special
proceeding.

SEC. 1. The forms of all actions and suits, heretofore
existing, are abolished; and hereafter there shall be but one
form of actio11 for the enforcement or protection of private
rights, and the redress or prevention of private wrongs; which

shall be called a civil action.

SEC. 2. In such action the party complaining shall be
known as the plaintifff, and the adverse party as the defendant.

SEC. 3. The proceedings in a civil action may be of two
kinds:

First. At law.

Second. In equity.

Sscrxozt. 4. The plaintifff may prosecute his action by equitable proceedings in all cases, where Courts of Chancery,
before the adoption of this Code, had jurisdiction ; and must
so proceed in all cases where such jurisdiction was exclusive.

Sncnon 5. In all other cases the plaintifff must prosecute

his action by proceedings at law.

SEC. 6. An action upon a written obligation or judgment, which has been lost or destroyed, may be prosecuted by

proceedings at law.

SEC. 7. An error of the plaintifff as to the kind of proceedings adopted, shall not cause the abatement or dismissal of
the action, but merely a change into the proper proceedings
by an amendment in the pleadings, and a transfer of the action

to the proper docket.

SEC. 8. The error mentioned in the last section may be
corrected by the plaintifff, without motion, at any time before
the defendant has answered; or afterward, on motion in court.

SEC. 9. The defendant shall be entitled to have the correction made in the following cases:

First. When the action has been commenced by equitable
proceedings, the defendant, by motion made at the time of
filing his answer, may have them changed into proceedings at
law, when it appears that by provisions of section five, the plaintifff should have adopted proceedings at law, unless his answer

presents an equitable defense.

Second. When the action has been commenced by proceedings at law, the defendant, by motion made at or before the
time of filing his answer, may have them changed into equitable
proceedings, when it appears that by the provisions of section
four, the plaintifff should have adopted proceedings in equity.

SEC. 10. Where the action has been properly commenced
by proceedings at law, either party shall have the right, by

motion, to have any issue, which, before the adoption of this
Code, was exclusively cognizable in chancery, tried in the manner hereinafter prescribed in cases of equitable proceedings;
and if all the issues are such as before the adoption of this
Code, were cognizable in chancery, though none were exclusively so, the defendant shall have the right to have them all
tried as in cases of proceedings in equity.

SEC. 11. If the plaintiffi"s claim is for money due by contract, and the defendant puts in a defense of exclusively equitable cognizance, upon the plaintifff filing an affidavit that he
verily believes that he will succeed in the action, and that the
collection of his claim after judgment, will be endangered by
the delay arising from such defense being put in, the court
shall require the defendant to give security for the payment of
any judgment that the plaintifff may obtain in the action, and
upon his failure to give such security, shall order the defendant
to pay into court an amount sufiicient to discharge the plaintifff’s claim, and his probable costs; upon which order’ execution may be issued as upon a judgment, and the amount collected upon execution shall be brought into court and await
the decision of the action, and be paid to the plaintifff or defendant, according to such decision. But no such security shall
be required if the trial of the equitable defense takes place
during the term at which it is put in, nor until all defenses to
the action, other than those of equitable cognizance, are tried
or disposed of in favor of the plaintifff.

SEC. 12. An error as to the kind of proceedings adopted
in the action, is waived by failure to move for its correction at
the time and in the manner prescribed in this chapter, and all
errors in decisions of the court, on any of the motions named
in this chapter, are waived, unless excepted to at the time,
which may be done by the clerk noting at the end of such

decision, words of the following import: “To which decision
the plaintifff (or defendant) excepts.

SEC. 13. The provisions of. this Code, concerning the
prosecution of a civil action, apply to both kinds of proceedings, unless the contrary appears.

SEC. 14. A judgment obtained in an action by proceedings at law, shall not be annulled or modified by any order in an action by equitable proceedings, except for a defense which has arisen or been discovered since the judgment was rendered. But such judgment does not prevent the recovery of any claim, though such claim might have been used as a defense by way of set-off or counterclaim in the action on which judgment was recovered.

TITLE II.

JURISDICTION OF COURTS IN CIVIL CASES.

CHAPTER-— CHAPTER1. Supreme Court. 3. Probate Court and Justices‘ Courts
2. Circuit Court.

CHAPTER I.

Supreme Court.

sxc1'1ox— SI-2CTl().\'—
15. Supreme Court has general appellate 17. Costs not incluolml in giving jurisjurisdiction over all courts. tliction.

16. L'ases‘in which it has not jurisdiction.

SEC. 15. The Supreme Court shall have appellate jurisdiction over the final orders and judgments of all other
courts of the State, subject to the exception in the next section.

SEC. 16. Where the action or proceeding is for the recovery of money or personal property, and the matter in controversy does not exceed iifty dollars in value, or, in behalf of
the defendant where the judgment of the inferior court is
against him for money or personal property, not exceeding in
value fifty dollars, unless reduced below that amount by a

set-off or counterclaim, or where the j udgemexit grants a divorce,
or wh are the judgment or order is by the County Court, Police
Court, or City, or Mayor's Court, or Justices’ Court, and an
appeal is given to the Circuit Court, the Supreme Court shall
have no appellate jurisdiction.

SEC. 17. The costs are not to be included in estimating
the value .necessary to give jurisdiction to the Supreme Court.

CHAPTER II.

Ci rcztit Courts.

1RTI(:1.I-:~— I AR'l'lCLB1. Original Jnrisqliction. 2. Appellate Jurisdiction.

.\I{'I‘I(‘LE I.

0rig‘in.a,l J uris(Iicti.0n-.

S!-JCTl0.\'—
IR. (‘ircnil ('ourt.~, have general original
jurisdiction. 1’ ul :1  k i Clmm-cr_\'
(hurt, general equity jurisdiction.

SEC. 18. Circuit Courts have original jurisdiction of all actions and proceedings for the enforcement of civil rights, or redress of civil wrongs, except when exclusive jurisdiction is given
to other courts. The Separate Chancery Court of Pulaski county,
shall hereafter be known and styled the “ Pulaski Chancery
Court;” and shall have the jurisdiction now conferred upon it by
law, and also, the same general jurisdiction in actions by proceedings in equity that is now, or may hereafter be conferred on the circuit court, and all proceedings at law in the Pulaski circuit court,
which, by the provisions of this Code, should be transferred to
equity, shall be transferred to the Pulaski Chancery Court.

ARTICLE II.

Appellate Jurisdiction.

s£crxo.\'- stories19. Appellate jurisdiction of Circuit 21' Appem’ “kc” “5 in ‘M s“p"°“‘°
,_~om.t_ Court, except that the original papers are brought up.

22. A receipt to be given for papers on
removal.

20. Extends to errors of facts and law.

SEC. 19. Circuit Courts shall have appellate jurisdiction
of the judgments and final orders of Probate and County
Courts on the probate of wills, the granting or revoking of letters testamentary and of administration; the appointment and
removal of guardians; the settlement of accounts of Educiaries;
the division or partition of land; the allottment of dower, and
the establishment, alteration or discontinuance of ferries, mills
and dams, roads and passways; and of judgment of Justices
of the Peace on inquisitions of forcible entry and detainer,
and of inquisitions before Justices of the Peace or other ofIicers for appropriating private property to public use, except
when otherwise directed by law, and of all judgments of Justices of the Peace when the amount in controversy is twenty‘
five dollars or upward.

SEC. 20. The appellate jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
shall extend to errors of facts as well as errors of law, in the
orders and judgments. '

SEC. 21. The appeals from orders and judgments of
the County and Probate Court may be taken to the Circuit
Court in the same time, and in a similar manner, in which
appeals from the Circuit Court are taken to the Supreme Court,
except that the original papers and copies of the orders of the
County and Probate Court, shall be delivered by the Clerk 0
the County and Probate Court to the Clerk of the Circuit

Court, upon an appeal being taken, instead of a copy of the
complete record.

SEC. 22. \Vhenevcr the Clerk of the County and Probate Court shall deliver to the Clerk of the Circuit Court any
original papers, he shall take a receipt therefore, and file the
same in place of such papers.

\

CHAPTER III.

Probate Courts, County Courts, and Justices’ Courts.

SEC. 23. Probate Courts, County and Justices’ Courts
shall have jurisdiction as is now, or may hereafter, be conferred upon them respectively by law.

SEC. 24. Each of said Courts shall conform to the provisions of this Code as far as the same is applicable to them,
or to any proceedings of which they have jurisdiction.

TITLE III.

PARTIES T0 CIVIL ACTIONS.

CHAI"I‘l-ZR1. Parties to action generally.
2. Parties to certain actions.
3. Married women.

(

‘IIAP'rEa—

4. Infants.

5. Persons of unsound mind and prisoners.

CHAPTER I.

Parties to ./Ietions Generally.

SECTIO. —

25. Actions must be in name oi‘ real party
in interest.

‘:6. Action by assignee without prejudice
to set-otr, etc., against assignor. If assignment not authorized by statute,

the assiguor must be a party. Not to

apply to bills of exchange.

27. When assigned during the action, to
be continued in the name of assignor,
or the as~ignee may be made a party.

28. Executors. guardians, and express

trustees may bring an action in their

own name.
39. Where certain actions may be brought.

30. All persons interested may be joined
in the action.
31. All persons claiming an adverse interest may be made defendants.

SECTION32. Persons united in interest may be
joined as plaintifffs or defendants.

33. When parties are numerous, one or
more may sue or defend for all.

34. Persons severally liable on same contract, ‘may be sued together or in

part.
35. Persons jointly bound, may be sued as

if severally bound, and representatives joined with the survivors. It‘
all are dead, action may be against
all the representatives.

36. If controversy cannot be decided
against parties without others, they
must be brought in.

9 37. In an action to recover property, any

one interested may be made a party
on application.

SEC. 25. Every action must be prosecuted in the name

of the real party in interest, except as provided in section 28
and 29.

SEC. 26. In the case of an assignment of a thing in
action, the action by the assignee, is without prejudice to any
discount, set-off, or defense now allowed. And where the
assignment is not authorized bv statute, the assignor must be
a party, as plaintifff or defendant. This section does not apply
to bill of exchange, nor to common orders or checks, nor to
promissory notes placed on the footing of bills of exchange.

SEC. 27. Where the right of the plaintifff is transferred
or assigned during the pendency of the action, it may be confined in his name, or the court may allow the person to whom
the transfer or assignment is made, to be substituted in the
action, proper orders being made as to security for the costs.

SEC. 28. (An executor, /administrator, guardian, trustee
of an express trust, a person with whom, or in whose name,
a contract is made for the benefit of another, or the State, or
any ofiieer thereof, or any person expressly authorized by statute to do so, may bring an action without joining with him
the person for whose benefit it is prosecuted.

SEC. 29. All actions and suitslfor the recovery of the
purchase money of lands which were granted to this State by
the United States, by Acts of Congress, March 2d, 1827, June
23d, 1836, and September 4, 1841, and any and all lands which
have, at any time, and from time to time, been granted to this
State by the United States, or may hereafter be granted, for
any and all purposes, except such grants as have been, or may

hereafter be made for railroad purposes, and all actions to enforce the vendor’s lien upon any such lands, and all actions to

recover the possession of, or for tresspasses upon any such
lands, shall be brought and prosecuted in the name of the
State of Arkansas; and the fact that any and all of said lands
may have been set apart, or allotted, or granted by the State, to
any county, township, or school district, shall not be a defense
to any action brought under this section, and shall not affect

the jurisdiction of the court in which the action may be pending, but all questions as to the rights of such counties, townships, or school districts, shall be reserved, and shall not be
affected by any proceeding under the preceding section.
SEC. 30. All persons having an interest in the subject
of an action, and in obtaining the relief demanded, may be

joined as plaintifffs, except where it is otherwise provided in
this Code.

SEC. 31. Any person may be made a defendant who has,
or claims an interest in the controversy, adverse to the plaintifff, or who is a necessary party to a complete determination
and settlement of the question involved in the action.

SEC. 32. Of the parties to the action, those who are
united in interest must be joined as plaintifff s or defendants;
but when, for any cause, it may be necessary, for the purpose
of justice, a person who should have been’ joined as plaintifff,
may be made a defendant, the reason therefore being stated in
the complaint.

SEC. 33. Where the question is one of a common or
general interest of many persons, or where the parties are
numerous, and where it is impracticable to bring all before the
court within a reasonable time, one or more maysue, or defend
for the benefit of all.

SEC. 34. Persons severally liable upon the same contract, including parties to bills of exchange, and promissory
notes placed upon the footing of bills of exchange, common
orders and checks, and sureties on the same, or separate instruments, may all, or any of them, or the representatives of
such as may have died, be included in the same action, at the
plaintifff’ s option.

SEC. 35. Where two or more persons are jointly bound
bycontract, the action thereon may be brought against all or
any of them, at the plaintifff s option. Where any of the persons so bound are dead, the action may be brought against any
or all of the survivors, with the representative of all or any of

the deseendents, or against the latter or any of them. Wliere
all the persons so bound are dead, the action may be brought
against the representatives of all, or of any of them. An
action or judgment against any one or more, of several persons
jointly bound, shall not be a bar to proceedings against the

other.

SEC. 86. The court may determine any controversy
between parties before it, when it can be done without prejudice to the rights of others, or by saving their rights. But
when a determination of the controversy between the parties
before the court cannot be made without the presence of
other parties, the court must order them to be brought in.

SEC. 37. Where, in an action for the recovery of real
or personal property, any person,having an interest in the
property, applies to be made a party, the court may order it to
be done.

CHAPTER II. -r

Parties to Certa,in» .4cti0n-.5‘.

511'-CTIO.\'— _ SE-C1~[U.\'_

38. A third party claiming personal 40. In actions against an onlccr for propproperty in contest in an action may . erty taken under execution, the
he brought into the action; ifhe fails  plalntin‘ in execution may be subto appear, he may be barred. If he ' stituted as defendant.
appears he is made defendant. I 41. Tenants may sue landlord for prop89. Last section applies to officers taking Tcrty t?km under (“stress ‘"m_'“"t'
pl_0pen)_ under execution’ cm xe em orsement of a levg , a snmeient

taking to support an action.

SEC. 38. Upon affidavit of a defendant before °_answer,
in any action upon contract for the recovery of personal property, that some third party without collusion with him, has or
makes a claim to the subject of the action, and that he is ready
to pay or dispose thereof as the court may direct, the court may
make an order for the safe keeping, or for the payment, or
depcsit in court. or delivery of the subject of the action to
such person as it may direct, and an order requiring such third
party to appear in a reasonable time and maintain or relinquish
his claim against the defendant, and, in the mean time, stay
the proceedings. If such third part.y, being served with a
copy of the order, fail to appear, the court may declare him
barred of all claim in respect to the subject of the action, against
the defendant therein. If such third party appears, he shall
be allowed to makehimself defendant in the action, in lieu of
the original defendant, who shall be discharged from all liability
to either of the other parties, in respect to the subject of the
action, upon his compliance with the order of the court. for the
payment, deposit, or delivery thereof.

SEC. 39. The provisions of the last section shall be
applicable to an action brought against a sheriff, or other officer
for the recovery of personal property taken by him, under an
execution or distress warrant, or for the proceeds of such property so taken, and sold by him; and the defendant in any such
action, shall be entitled to the benefit of those provisions
against the party in whose favor the execution or distress warrant issued, upon exhibiting to the court the process under
which he acted, with his aiiidavit that the property, for the
recovery of which, or its proceeds, the action was brought, was
taken under such process.

SEC. 40. In an action against a sheriff, or other officer,
for the recovery of property, taken under an execution or distress warrant, the court may, upon the application of defendant,
and of the party in whose favor the execution or distress warrant issued, permit the latter to be substituted as the defendant,
security for the costs being given.

SEC. 41. An action to recover the possession of specific

personal property, taken under a distress warrant, where it is
brought by the tenant, or his assignee, or under-tenant, may
be against the party who sued out the warrant; and the property claimed under such action, may, under the order for its
delivery, be taken from the officer who seized it, where he has
no other claim to hold it than that derived from the warrant.
The endorsement of a levy on the property, made upon the
warrant by the officer holding it, shall be a sufficient taking of

the property, to sustain the action against the party who sued

out the warrant.

CHAPTER III.

Jllarried Wbmen.

SECTION42 The husband must be joined with
the wife, except where action concerns her separate property, or between them. when she may sue alone. 45 11' a woman marries pending the go.

43 Husband and wife sued jointly, wire tion. the husband nlmlc Part)’ by 01'may defend for both.  «ler.

Seaman44 If husband deserts his iamily, his
wife, if a mother, may sue or defend
for him.

 
 

SEC. 42. Where a married woman is a party, her husband must be joined with her, except that where the action
concerned her separate property, she may sue alone; and, where
the action is between herself and her husband, she may sue,
or be sued alone.

SEC. 43. If a husband and wife are sued together, the

wife may defend for her own right; and if the husband neglects to defend, for his also.

SEC. 44. Where a husband,‘_l>eing a father, has deserted
his family, the wife. being a mother, may prosecute, or defend

in his name, any action which he might have prosecuted or
defended, and shall have the same powers and rights therein as
he might have had. .

SEC. 45. VVhen a female party to an action marries, the

fact being stated upon the second, the husband may be made a
party with his wife, and the action shall proceed.

CHAPTER IV.

Infants.

IC‘I"ION— SECTION46. An action by an infant must be 49. Guardian to defend appointed by
brought by guardian or next friend, (fourt, after service of summons. No
subject to the orders of Court. party or attorney can be appointed.

47. Guardian or next friend liable for 50. The manner of appointing guardians
costs, and may be required to give to defend.
security for them.

48. Who must defend for an infant. .\'o
judgment without defense.

SEC. 46. The action of an infant must be brought by
by his guardian or his next friend. Any person: may bring
the action of an infant as his next friend; but the court
has power to dismiss it, if it is not for the benefit of the infant,
or to substitute the guardian of the infant, or another person,
as the next friend.

SEC. 47. The guardian or next friend is liable for the
costs of the action, brought by him, and where he is insolvent,
and it is made to appear that the action is malicious, or
that the next friend was selected because of his insolvency, the
court in its discretion may require him to give security for the
costs. 4

SEC. 48. The defense of an infant must be by his regular guardian, or by a guardian appointed to defend for him,

defense by a guardian appointed for that purpose. No judgment can be rendered against an infant until after a defense by
a guardian.

SEC. 49. The guardian to defend, shall be appointed by
the court, or by the judge thereof. The appointment cannot
be made, until after service of the summons in the action, as
directed in this Code. N 0 party, or attorney in an action, can

be appointed guardian to defend therein, for an infant, or person of unsound mind. During the vacation of their courts,

the clerks of circuit and chancery courts, shall have the same
power of appointing guardians, ad litem, for infant defendants
who have been summoned in the action, that their respective
courts, or the judges thereof, have; but the court or judge shall
have power to change the guardians so appointed, by appointing
others in their stead, whenever the interests of the infant require such a change. The clerk shall endorse the name of the
guardian, and the date of his appointment, upon the complaint.

SEC. 50. The appointment may be made upon the application of the infant, if he is of the age of fourteen years,
and applies at or before the term to which the summons
is served If he is under the age of fourteen years, or does
not so apply, the appointment may be made upon the application of any friend of the infant, or on that of the plaintifff
in the action.

CHAPTER V.

Persons of Unsound Jllind, and Prisoners.

SECTION-— SECTION51An action by a person of unsound 55 If 8 Part)’ becomes Of 1m-5011113 mind
mind, must be by committee, or next Ilmlding the 3°ti°“s his °°mmi“°°
friend, may be joined.

52 Cmnmittee or next friend liable for 56 Nojudsment against aprisoncr in the
costs; “my be required to give Se- Penitentiary until defense. Court to
curity for them. appoint a person to defend.

53 D3f¢1159b.\' 3 Gommmee 01' 8'1"”"1i1m§ 67 Plaintiff to pay guardian or attorney
110.iW18"~‘1ll0llt WWIOIII 1191191156, and appointed todefentl forinfant, lunatic
I10 appointment till after service Of or prisoner, and fees to be taxed in
Slll11m0'AS. the costs,

54 On whose application guardian appointed.

SEC. 51. The action of a person judicially found to be
of unsound mind, must be brought by his committee, or, if he
has none, by his next friend. When brought by his next friend,
the action is subject to the powers of the Court, in the same
manner as the actlon of an infant so brought.

SEC. 52. The committee or next friend is liable for the

costs, and the Court in its discretion may require him to give
security for costs.

SEC. 53. The defense, of an action against a person judicially found to be of unsound mind, must be by his committee, or a guardian appointed by the court to defend for him,
where no committee appears, or where the court directs a defense
by a guardian. No judgment can be rendered against him
until after a defense by his committee, or by a guardian
appointed for that purpose. No appointment can be made
until after service of the summons, as directed in this Code.

SEC. 54. The guardian to defend may be appointed on
the application of any friend of the defendant, or on that of the
plaintifff.

SEC. 55. Where a party is judicially found to be of unsound mind, during the pendency of an action, the fact being
stated on the record, if he is plaintifff, his committee may be
joined with him in the action as such. If he is defendant, the plaintifff may, upon ten days' notice thereof to his committee, have an order making the committee a defendant also.

SEC. 56. No judgment can be rendered against a prisoner in the penitentiary until after a defense made for him by his attorney, or if, there is none, by a person appointed by the court to defend for him.

SEC. 57. A guardian or attorney, appointed on the application of the plaintifff, to defend for an infant, person of unsound mind, or prisoner, shall be allowed a reasonable fee for his services, to be paid by the plaintifff, and taxed in the costs.

TITLE. IV.

COMMENCEMENT OF A CIVIL ACTION.

CHAPTER I.
Jlfanner of Commencing‘ An Action.
SEc‘rION— SI-2CTIO.\'—
58 Action commenced by Illingcomplaint 6-1 When defendant must answer comand issuing summons. plaint.
59 Form and requisites of a summons. 68 When the summons to be made re60 Summons may be issued to any county turnable.
but only those served, to be taxed in 64 To whom to be delivered.
costs, unless ordered by court. 65 Sherin’ to attend daily at (.'lerk’s 011108
61 One copy of summons or each defend- to receive process.
ant.

SEC. 58. A civil action is commenced by filing in the

office of the clerk of the proper court, a complaint, and causing

a summons to be issued thereon. .
SEC. 59. The summons shall be directed to the sheriff

of the county, and command him to summon the defendant, or
defendants, named therein, to answer the complaint filed by
the plaintifff, giving his name, at the time stated therein, under
the penalty of the complaint being taken for confessed, or of
the defendant being proceeded against for contempt of court
on his failure to do so. The summons shall be dated upon the
daypit is issued, and signed by the clerk.

SEC. 60. A summons shall be issued at any time, to any
county, against any one or more of the defendants, at the
plaintifff's request. But a summons not served shall not be
taxed in the costs, unless otherwise ordered by the court.

SEC. 61. With every summons, the clerk shall issue as
many copies thereof as there are defendants named therein,
unless otherwise ordered by the plaintifff.

SEC. 62. In actions by proceedings at law, the time fixed
in the summons for the defendant to answer, shall be the day
the summons is returnable; in actions, by equitable proceedings
it shall be twenty days after the service of the summons.

SEC. 63. The summons shall be made returnable the
first day of the next term of the court, unless the term begins
within ten days from the date of the summons, when it shall
be returnable the first day of the term following.

SEC. 64. The summons and copies shall be delivered to
the sheriff, or other officer, authorized to execute it.

SEC. 65. It shall be the duty of the sheriff, or one of
his deputies, to attend at the clerk's office daily, (Sunday excepted,) to receive any process that may be issued, and the
clerk shall deliver to him any process remaining in his oiiice.

CHAPTER II. Service of Summons.

umcu— AR'l‘ICLE—- .
1, Acmai service_ 2. Constructive Service.
ARTICLE I.

./lctufal Service.

33¢-noy... SECTION5_ By whom 3 summons may be 5.3,-ved_ 72. On agents, in this State, of foreign
66. Manner of serving. °0l‘P01'Mi0'l561. Time and 111311118!’ Of S8l’ViCC t0 b0 73. now servcd on an infant"

stated in the return,

63' service may be acknowledged by 74. How served on a person of unsound

written indorsement, signed and at- 75 Inltnd; ed on a “Son” _“me mi
tested, and proved by affidavit. ' tcn‘:i;t:;v p ‘ 1 P

Q. How served on corporation.
76. How served on owners or oilicers of

70. May be served on officers of a branch boats‘

bank in certain cases.
77. How served on persons out of this

State, and certified.
. Effect of service out of State.

71. On agents of Insurance Companies in
certain cases. 1 .78

SEC. 65. The summons may be served:

First. By the oiiicer to whom it is directed, unless he is a
party to the suit, or unless the plaintifff or his agent or attorney
files with the clerk an aihdavit to the effect that the obtaining
of a sheriff or deputy to serve the summons, will occasion such
delay as to render it probable that the same cannot be served in
time. In which cases the summons may be served by a jailor,
coroner or constable. Provided, That the clerk shall endorse
upon such summons, that the same may served by such oiiicer,
and the return of such officer shall be evidence of the service
to the same extent as if made by the sheriff.

Second. By any person appointed by the officer to whom
the same is directed, by an indorsement on the summons, Whose
atiidavit, indorsed thereon, shall be proof of the time and
manner of service.

SEC. 66. The service shall be by delivering to the defendent a copy of the summons. If he refuse to receive it,
the offer of it to him shall be a sufficient service.

SEC. 67. In all cases of the return of service,'upon a
summons, by an officer, the return must state the time of service, and that a copy was delivered to, or offered and refused
by, theldefendant. And if a return of service is defective in
these respects, the oilicer may be fined by the court, not exceeding ten dollars, and shall be liable to the action of any person
aggrieved by such defect. But the court may permit an amendment, according to the truth of the case.

SEC. 68. Service may be acknowledged by the defendant, by an indorsement upon the summons, signed and dated
by him, and attested by a witness. The affidavit of the witness shall be proof of the service.

SEC. 69. Where the defendant is a corporation, created
by the laws of this State, the service of the summons may be
upon the president, mayor, chairman of the board of trustees,
or other chief ofiiccrs; or if its chief oilicer is not found in the
county, upon its cashier, treasurer, secretary, clerk, or managing
agent; or if it is a municipal corporation, upon its marshal;
or if it is an incorporated library, upon its librarian.

SEC. 70. Where the defendant is an incorporated bank,

and the action is in a county in which there is a branch there-‘

of, the service may be upon the president or cashier of that
branch. A

SEC. 71. Where the defendant is an incorporated insurance company, and the action is in a county in which there is
an agency thereof, the service may be upon the chief ofiiccr of
such agency.

SEC. 72. Where the defendant is a foreign corporation,
having an agent in this State, the service may be upon such
agent.

SEC. 73. Where the defendant is an infant under the
age of fourteen years, the service must be upon him, and upon
his father or guardian, or if neither of these can be found,
then upon his mother, or upon any other person, having the
care or control of the infant, or with whom he lives. Where
the infant is over fourteen years of age, service on him sha
be suEcient.

SEC. 74. Where the defendant is a person judicially
found to be of unsound mind, the service must be upon him,
and upon his committee; if there is no committee, upon his
wife, or the person having the care of him, or with whom he

lives, or the keeper of the asylum in which he may be conlined.

SEC. 75. Where the defendant is a prisoner in the penitentiary, a copy of the complaint must accompany the summons, and the service must be upon the keeper of the penitentiary, who shall deliver the copies of the complaint and summons
to the defendant. And a copy of the summons must also be
delivered to the wife of the prisoner, or, if he has no wife, left
at the place where he resided, or claimed to reside, prior to his
confinement, with some person of the age of sixteen years.

SEC. 76. When any action to recover judgment
against the owners or officers of any steamboat, or vessel, or
other water-craft, for any debt or liability created by them, or
either of them, shall have been commenced in any county in
which said steamboat, vessel, or water-craft was found, and
from any cause the summons, or other process, cannot be served
in such action, in the county where such action was commened,
a service in any other county in this State, shall have the same
effect, as if made in the county where the action was brought.

SEC. 77. Where a defendant is out of this State, the
plaintifff may take a copy of the complaint, certified by the
clerk, with a summons annexed thereto, warning such defendant to appear, and answer the complaint within sixty days after
the same shall have been served on him, and cause a copy

thereof to be delivered to such defendant any where in the
United States, by some person to whom he is personally known.
Proof of the delivery shall be made by the aiiidavit of the person making it, indorsed, or annexed to the certified copy and
summons, in which the time‘and place of delivery, and the fact
that the defendant was personally known to the afliant, shall
be stated. The officer before whom the affidavit is made, shall
certify that the afiiaut is personally known to him to be worthy

of credit.

SEC. 78. The certified copy and summons, with the
aiiidavit and certificate, as provided in the last section, being
returned and filed in the action, shall be deemed an actual service of the summons in due time for trial, at the first term,
commencing not less than sixty days after such service.

ARTICLE II.

Constructive Service.

snc'rIoN.— SECTION—
79. Cases in which constructive service 82. Warning order a constructive seris allowed. vice, on the thirtieth day after being
80. Court may make the warning order made and published.

on aniidavxts or other proof. How 8.3_ Actual service may be made after

p“b1iSh°“' constructive service.
81. How service to be made on unknown

heirs, and unknown owners of property.

SEC. 79. \Vhere it appears by the aiiidavit of the plaintifff, filed in the clerk’s office at, or after the commencement of
the action, that the defendant is:

First. A foreign corporation, having no agent in this
State, or,

Second. A non-resident of this State; or,

Third. Has departed from this State, with intent to delay
or defraud his creditors; or,

Fourth. Has been absent from this State four months; or,

Fzfth. Has left the county of his residence to avoid the

service of a summons; or
Sixth. Conceals himself, so that a summons cannot be served

upon him; or,

Where either of the last two mentioned facts is stated in the
return by the proper officer, of a summons against the defendant, the clerk shall make, upon the complaint, an order Warning
such defendant to appear in the action within thirty days from
the time of making the order.

SEC. 80. The court may make the warning order in the
case mentioned therein, upon the requisite facts, according to
the provisions of the preceding section, it being satisfactorily

shown by affidavit or other proof; Provided, All warning orders
shall be published weekly, for at least four weeks, in some
authorized newspaper published at the seat of government.

SEC. 81. Where, in an action against the heirs of a
deceased person, as unknown heirs, or against other persons
made defendants, as unknown owners of any property to be
divided or disposed of in the action, It appears by the complaint,
that the names of such heirs or any of them, or of such other
persons, are unknown to the plaintifff, a warning order, as
directed in the last section, shall be made by the clerk against
such unknown heirs or owners.

SEC. 82. A defendant against whom a warning order
has been made and published, as provided in Section 80, shall
be deemed to have been constructively summoned, on the
thirtieth day after the making of the order, and the action may
proceed accordingly.

SEC. 83. The plaintifff may, at any time before judgment, have a summons served on the defendant, if found in
this State, although a warning order may have been previously
entered against him; and after such service, the case shall
proceed as in other cases of actual service.

TITLE V.

 

THE COUNTY IN WHICH AN ACTION MAY BE BROUGHT.

SEC'!'ION— 81:.-erron84. Actions which must be brought in.the 92_ where actions against corporations
Cfllélty where the property is situ- to bebmught genemuy_
a e .

93. Certain actions against railroads and

85. Actions which must be brought where
stage owners, where to be brought.

the cause of action arose.
86. Actions to establish or set aside a 94. The same as toturnpike roads.

will’ _nmAst be in the county where 95. Actions againstnon-residents,wherethcnill should be recorded. ever property is found.

8'7. To settle the estate of a deceased person, in the county where the personal 96. Other actions, where defendant resides or is summoned.

representative qualiiied.
38. To distribute or divide decedenvs 97. Whena single defendant, action must
be where he is summoned, or resided

estate, in the county where the per- t I th t,
. x on.
sonal representative qiialfiled. at the commencemm 0 e M I

89. By ward against guardian, in the 98. Where there are several defendants,

county where he qiialiiied. judgment must be rendered against
the one served in the county, to obtain

90 What actions must be brought at seat .
judgment against the others.

of governiiieiit.

91_ Againstlunaticin anasy1um’o,.p,iS_ 99. The objection waived unless made
oner in the penitentiary, in the county b°f°"e judgment‘
of his last residence before con1ine- 100, Where defendant renioves, summons
mel1t- may go to another county.

SEC. 84. Actions for the following causes must be
brought in the county in which the subject of the action, or
some part thereof, is situated, except as provided in section
ninty-nine.

First. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate or
interest therein.

Second. Eor the partition of real property.

T/zird. For the sale of real property under mortgage lien,
or other encumbrance or charge.

Fourth. For an injury to real property. 

SEC. 85. Actions for the following causes must be brought
in the county where the cause, or some part thereof arose:

First. An action for the recovery of a fine, penalty, or forfeiture, imposed by a statute; except that, where the offense
for which the claim is made, was committed on a water course
or road which is the boundary of two counties, the action may
be brought in either of them.

Second. An action against a public officer, for an act done
by him in virtue, or under color, of his oiiice, or for a neglect
of official duty.

Tlzird. An action upon the official bond of a public officer,
except as provided in sections 484 and 485.

SEC. 86. An action to establish or set aside a will,
must be brought in the county in which the will, if valid, ought,
according to law, to be recorded.

SEC. 87. An action to settle the estate of a deceased
person, must be brought in the county in which his personal
representative was qualified.

SEC. 88. An action for the distribution of the estate of a
deceased person, or for its partition among his heirs, or for the

sale of real property, must be brought in the county in which ’

his personal representative was qualified.

SEC. 89. An action by a ward against his guardian, for
a settlement of his accounts, for additional security, or for his
removal, must be brought in the county in which the guardian
was qualified.

SEC. 90. The following actions must be brought in the
county in which the seat of government is situated:

First. All civil actions in behalf of the State, or which may
be brought in the name of the State, or in which the State has,

or claims an interest.

missioners, or State Oiiicers, in their official capacity, or on
behalf of the State. . .

’_l7n'rd. All actions against the State, and all actions against
State Boards, State Commissioners or State Officers on account
of their official acts.

’ Fourth. All actions now authorized by law to be brought

in the Separate Court of Chancery of Pulaski county.

SEC. 91. An action, other than one of those mentioned
in Sections 84, 85 and 90, against a person confined in the penitentiary, or a lunatic asylum, must be brought in the county
in which he resided, or claimed his residence, prior to his
confinement.

SEC. 92. An action other than those mentioned in Sections 84, 85, and 90, against a corporation created by the laws
of this State, may be brought in the county in which it is
situated or has its principal office or place of business, or in
which its chief officer resides; but if such corporation is a bank
or insurance company, the action maybe brought in the county
in which there is a branch of the bank, or agency of the company, where it arises out of a transaction of such branch or
agency.

SEC. 93. An action against a railroad company, or an
owner of a line of mail stages or other coaches, for an injury
to person or property, upon the road or line of stages or coaches
of the defendant, or upon a liablity as carrier, may be brought
in any county, through or into which the road or line of stages
or coaches_of the defendant, upon which the cause of action

arose, passes.

SEC. 94. An action, other than one of those mentioned
in Sections 84, 85 and 90, against a turnpike road company,
may he brought in any county in which any part of the road
of the defendant lies.

SEC. 95. An action other than one of those mentioned
in Sections 84, 85 and 90, against a non-resident of this State,
or a foreign corporation, may be brought in any county in
which there maybe property, or debts owing to the defendant.

SEC. 96. Every other action may be brought in any county in which the defendant, or one of several defendants, resides, or is summoned.

SEC. 97. Where any action embraced in the preceding section is against a single defendant, the plaintifff shall not be
entitled to judgment against him, on the service of a summons
in any other county than that in which the action is brought,
unless he resided in that county at the commencement of the
action, or unless, having appeared therein, he fails to object,
before the trial, to its proceeding against him.

SEC. 98. Where any action embraced in Section 96, is
against several defendants, the plaintifff shall not be entitled to
judgment against any of them on the service of a summons in
another county than that in which the action is brought, where
no one of the defendants is summoned in that county, or resided therein at the commencement of the action, or where, if
any of them resided, or were summoned in that county, the
action is discontinued or dismissed as to them, or judgment
therein is rendered in their favor; unless the defendant summoned in another county, having appeared in the action, failed
to object before the judgment, to its proceeding against him.

SEC. 99. The objection that one of the several defendants was summoned in another county, if he appears, shall be
deemed to be Waived, unless it is made before judgment as to
him. ‘

SEC. 100. If after the commencement of an action in
the county of the defendant's residence, he removes therefrom,
the service of a summons upon him in any other county, shall

have the same effect as if it had been made in the county from
which he removed.

TITLE IV.

JOINDER OF ACTIONS.

SECTION-— SECTION101 What cause of action may be united. 103 Court may strike out, before defense
102 A cause of action may be stricken :1 causes 01‘ action il11D1‘0P€‘-T1I~'.l0il1€dout by plaintin] before submission of 104 ()l)jections to misjuindcr waived unthe case. less made before defense.

SEC. 101. Several causes of action may be united in the
same complaint, where each affects all the parties to the action,
may be brought in the same county, be prosecuted by the same
kind of proceedings, and all belong to one of the following
classes. ,

I‘z'rst. Claims arising out of contracts, express or implied.

Second. Claims for the recovery of speciiic real property,
and the rents, profits and damages for withholding the
same.

Tlzircl. Claims for the recovery of speciiic personal property, and damages for the taking or Withholding the same.

Fourth. Claims for partition of real or personal property, or
both,

Fgftlr. ' Claims arising from injuries of character:

Sixth. Claims arising from injuries to person and property:

Seventh; Claims against a trustee by virtue of a contract, or
by operation of law:

SEC. 102. The plaintifff may strike from his complaint
any cause of action, at any time before the final submission ot

the case to the jury, or to the court, where the trial is by the
court.

SEC. 103. The court at any time before the defense,
shall, on motion of the defendant, strike out of the complaint
any cause, or causes of action, improperly joined with others.
SEC. 104. All objections to the misjoinder of causes of
action shall be deemed to be waived, unless made as provided
in the last section; and all errors in the decisions of the court
thereon, are waived, unless excepted to at the time.

TITLE VII.

PLEADINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

C!IAP'l'E‘.B.— CHAPTER1. The pleadings in general. 6. Time of pleading.

2_ The compming, 7. General rules of pleading.
3_ The demurrer, 8. Mistakes and amendments.
4. The answer. 9- 1nW1'1'°88t01'i¢95. The reply.

-I

CHAPTER I.

The Plctcrliibgs in General.

:~‘}ZC'I'l0.\'-—— FliCTIO.\'—105. I’leu«lin;.;-s .1.-nuiul.
108. Forms of pleading» lllmll~‘llt'¢l.
1'37. I’lc;ulin;:~ allowed by (‘ode

108. When defendant may tlle cre.<~+-cmnplaint.

SEC. 105. The pleadings are the written statements, by the
parties, of the facts, constituting their respective claims and
defenses.

SEC. 106. The forms of pleadings in civil actions and
suits, heretnt'ore existing, are abolished; and hereafter, the
forms of pleadings in civil actions, and the rules by which their
sutiicieney is to be determined, are those prescribed in this
Code.

SEC. 107. The only pleadings allowed, are—

Fa‘:-st.—The complaint by the plaintifff.

;S'ec0nd.——Tho demurrer, or answer by the defendant.

Tizirc/.—The demurrer or reply, by the plaintifff.

SEC. 108. A defendant may file a cross complaint against
persons other than the plaintifff, and have proceedings thereon
as follows:

First.—-\\'hen a defendant has a cause of action against a
co-defendant, or a person not a party to the action, and affecting the subject. matter of the action, he may make his answer
a crosstcomplaint against the co-defendant or other person;

.\'ccond.—'l‘lie defendant to such cross-complaint may be
actually or constructively summoned, and defense thereto shall
be made in the time and manner prescribed in regard to the
original complaint, and with the same rights of obtaining
provisional remedies applicable to the case.

Tin’:-d.—The filing and prosecution of the cross-complaint,
shall not delay the trial and decision of the 01‘lgi1‘l£ll action
when a judgment can be rendered therein that will not prejudiee the rights ofthe parties to the cross-complaint.

CHAPTER II.

T he Contplctirti.

$ECTl0X—- SECTION109. What the complaint must contain. 110- 15110}! (‘MISC 01' “C3011 t0 ‘M’ -‘t‘l’=|l'-'*t<‘1."
stat ed and numbered.

SEC. 109. The first pleading by the plaintifff is the complaint. The complaint must contain:

Fa'rst.—The style of the court in which the action is brought.

SecomZ.—The style of the action, consisting of the names of
all the parties thereto, distinguishing them as plaintifff and
defendants, followed by the Words “ Complaint at Law,” if the
proceedings are at law, and by the words “ Complaint in Equity,” if the proceedings are equitable.

Tin’:-d.—A statement in ordinary and concise language, Without repetition, of the facts constituting the plaintifff’s cause of
action.‘

Four-t}z.—A demand of the relief to which the plaintifff considers‘ himself entitled.

SEC. 110. Where the complaint contains more than one
cause of action, each shall be distinctly stated in a separate
paragraph, and numbered.

CHAPTER III.

The Demurrer.

sr:c'r10.\'-— SECTION111. The grounds of demurrer. 115. Defendant may answer part, and de112. Must specify the grounds. mur to part.

113. If sustained, plaintifff may amend.
114. Certain objections waived, unless
stated by demurrer or answer.

SEC. 111. The defendant may demur to the complaint,
where it appears on its face, either:

Fz'rst.—That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of
the defendant, or the subject of the action; or,

Secona’.—That the plaintifff has not legal capacity to sue; or,

Tln'rd.—Tl1at there is another action pending between the
same parties for the same cause ; or,

Fourth.—That there is a defect of parties, plaintifff or defendant; or,

.F2'ftlz.—That the complaint does not state facts suflieient to
constitute a cause of action.

SEC. 112. The demurrer shall distinctly specify the
grounds of objection to the complaint; unless it doesso, it
shall be regarded as objecting only that the complaint does not
state facts sufiicient to constitute a cause of action.

SEC. 113. If the court sustains the demurrer, the plaintiffl may amend, with or without costs, as the court may order.

SEC. 114. When any of the matters enumerated in section 111, do not appear upon the face of the complaint, the
objection may be taken by answer. If no such objection is
taken, either by demurrer or answer, the defendant shall be
deemed to have waived the same, except only the objection to
the jurisdiction of the court over the subject of. the action, and
the objection that the complaint does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action.

SEC. 115. The defendant may demur to one or more of
the several causes of action alleged in the complaint, and
answer as to the residue.

CHAPTER IV.

The Answer.

sno'r1o.\'— SECTIONus. What the answer must contain. 120. New party may be made to a set-oil“.
117. Counter-claim defined: 121. If answer beinsumeient,p1aintit!may
118. New party may be made to the coun- dcmur.

ter-claim. 122. The nature of guardian and of com119. Set-on’, when it may be pleaded. mittec answer.

SEC. 116. The answer shall contain:

Fz'rst.—The style of the court and the style of the action,
followed by the word “ answer.” But where there are several
plaintifff s and defendants, it shall only be necessary to give the
one first named of each class, with the words “ and others.”

econd.—A denial of each allegation of the complaint controverted by the defendant, or of any -knowledge or information thereof, sufficient to form a belief.

TIzz'rd.—A statement of any new matter constituting a defense, counterclaim, or set-off, in ordinary and concise language, without repetition.

Fourth.—The defendant may set fourth in his answer as many
grounds of defense, counterclaim, and set-off, whether legal or
equitable, as he shall have. Each shall be distinctly stated in
a separate paragraph, and numbered. The several defenses
must refer to the causes of action which they are intended to
answer, in a manner by which they may be intelligibly distinguished.

SEC. 117. The counterclaim mentioned in this chapter,
must be a cause of action in favor of the defendants, or some
of them, against the plaintifff or some of them, arising out of
the contract or transactlons set forth in the complaint, as the
foundation of the plaintifff ’s claim, or connected with the subject

of the action.
SEC. 118. When it appears that a new party is necessary

to a final decision upon the counterclaim, the court may
either permit the new party to be made, by a summons, to
reply to the counterclaim in the answer, or may direct that it
be stricken out of the answer, and made the subject of a separate action.

SEC. 119. A set-off can only he pleaded in an action
founded on contract, and must be a cause of action arising upon

contract, or ascertained by the decision of, a court.
SEC. 120. Where it appears that a new party is necessary

to a final decision upon a set-off, the court shall permit the new
party to be made, if it also appears that, owing to the insolvency or non-residence of the plaintifff, or other cause, the
defendant will be in danger of losing his claim, unless permitted to use it as a set-off.

SEC. 121. Where the facts stated in. the answer are not
sufliclent to constltute a defense, counterclaim, or set-off, the
plaintifff may demur.

SEC. 122. It shall be the duty of the guardian of an
infant, or committee of a person of unsound mind, or attorney

‘ appointed fora prisoner, to file an answer denying the material

rial allegations of the complaint, prejudicial to such defendant.

CHAPTER V.
The Reply.

)'EC’I'I0l\’—- SI»:c'r1ox—
123. In what cause a reply to be mad. 125. If reply is instmcient, the defendant
121. What the reply must contain. may demur.

SEC. 123. There shall be no reply except upon the allegation of a counterclaim or set-off in the answer.

SEC. 124. When the answer contains new matter constituting a counterclaim or set-off, the plaintifff may reply to
such new matter, denying each allegation controverted by him,
or any knowledge or information thereof sufficient to form a
belief, and may allege, in concise language, any new matter

not inconsistent with the complaint constituting a defense to

he cou_nter—claim or set-off.
SEC. 125. Where the facts stated in the reply do no

amount to a suflicieut clefettce, the defendant may demur.

CHAPTER VI.

Time of Pleading“.

S EC'I'IO.\'— S EC‘l‘IO.\'—
1-25, When the defense must be men in 131. Court may extend the time oi‘ pleadproceedings at law. ings.
121'. When the reply to be filed. 132. Deinnrrer may be filed with pleadH8. When defense to be filed in equitable “I85proeeeding-s. 133. Filing pleadings in clerk's office with
129. The defense to be filed in thirty days notice to counsel. equivalent to tiling
if summons served before commenee- in court.
ment of term. 134. Demnrrer waived unless presented
13()_ when reply in equimme proceedings for decision at first term after tiling.
to be filed.

SEC. 126. The defense to an action prosecuted by proceedings at law must be filed on the day of the term on which
the case is set for trial. _ .

Fz'rst.—Where the summons has been served ten days before
the commencement of the term, in the county in which the action
is brought, or in an adjoining county.

Second.—Where it has been served twenty days elsewhere in
the State, or sixty days out of the State; or,

I7n'rd.+Where the defendant has been constructively summoned thirty days.
SEC. 127. The reply shall be filed on or before the

calling of the cause for trial.
SEC. 128. In an action prosecuted by equitable proceed‘
ings, the defense must be filed on the third day of the term.
Fz'rst.—Where the summons has been served twenty days
before the commencement of the term, in the county in which

the action is brought, or an adjoining county:

Second.—Where it has been served thirty days elsewhere in
the State, or sixty days out of the State; or,

TIu'rd.—Where the defendant has been constructively summoned thirty days.

SEC. 129. Whe1'e the service of the summons was
before the commencement of the term, but not the length of
time mentioned in the last section, the defense shall be filed
in thirty days after the service.

SEC. 130. If the answer, in equitable proceedings,
contains a counterclaim or set-oil‘, the plaintifff shall reply
within twenty days after the answer is filed, or ninety days
before the ensuing term.

SEC. 131. The court may, for good cause shown, extend
the time for filing an answer or reply, to some subsequent day
.in that or the next succeeding term; the party applying for the
delay paying the costs occasioned thereby.

SEC. 132. A party may file a demurrer with his answer
or reply.

SEC. 133. The filing ofa demurrer, answer or reply in
the clerk's office in vacation within the time allowed, with
notice thereof to the opposite party or his attorney, shall be
equivalent to a filing in court as of that date.

SEC. 134. When a party files a demurrer with his
answer or reply, the demurrer must be presented for the consideration of the court at or before the first calling of the cause
for trial after the filing of the same. If he fails to do so, the
demurrer shall be regarded as waived to all points, except the
jurisdiction of the court, and that the pleading demurred to
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action or
defense, counterclaim or set-ofl‘.

CHAPTER VII.

General Rules for Pleading‘.

Szcnoa-'— SECTION135, Pleadings to be verified by oath of 143. Actions for libel or slander, applicaparty, tion of defamitory words or matter.
136. Certain pleadings not required to be may be stated generally.
reg-ined, 144. Defendant may, in his answer, allege
137. Presumptions of law and matter of the truth of the defamatory matter,
judicial notice not to be stated. and mitigating circumstances.
I38. Writings and accounts to be filed with 145. Real property to be described with
pleadings. convenient certainty.
139. Pleadings to be liberally construed, 146. Material allegations, unless contro140. lrrelevent matter may be stricken rerted. tobe taken as true.
out. 147. What is a material allegation?
1”‘ 1“ st_mi“3 3 judgment’ the facts 3”’ 148. Deeds and other writings relied on
ingjurisdiction, need not be stated. in pleadings must be med.

16' Performance of precedent condition 149. Anidavit of merits by defendant in

may be stated generally. certain cases.

SEC. 135. Every pleading must be subscribed by the
party or his attorney, and the complaint, answer, and reply,
must each be verified by the affidavit of the party, to the effect
that he believes the statements thereof to be true; such verification shall not make other or greater proof necessary on the
side of the adverse party. The verification of any pleading
of a corporation may be by any officer or agent on whom the
summons in an action against the corporation may be served,
or by its attorney in the action.

SEC. 136. The verification by affidavit, mentioned in
the last section, shall not be required to the answer of a guardian or committee defending for an infant, or person of unsound
mind, or imprisoned; nor in any case where the admission of

the truth of the allegations of the complaint or answer might
subject the party to a criminal or penal prosecution; nor to
pleadings affecting injuries to persons or character; nor to
complaints in actions founded on a note, bond, bill of exchange,
mortgage, or other Written obligation of the defendant; nor to
defense founded on written obligation, release, or the written
obligation of the plaintifff, unless the writing on which the
action or defense is founded is lost, mutilated or destroyed.

SEC. 137. Neither presumptions of law, nor matter or
which judicial notice is taken, need be stated in a pleading.

SEC. 138. If the action. counter—claim, or set-off, is
founded on a note, bond, bill, or other writing, as evidence of
indebtedness, it must be filed as part of the pleading, if in the
power of the party to produce it. If not filed, the reason thereof
must be stated in the pleading. If upon an account, a copy
thereof must, in like manner, be filed with the pleading.

SEC. 139. In construing a pleading for the purpose of
determining its efiects, its allegations shall be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.

SEC. 140. If irrevelent or redundant matter is inserted
in a pleading, it may be stricken out, on motion of any person
aggrieved thereby, at the cost of the party whose pleading
contained it.

SEC. 141. In pleading a judgment, or other determination, of a court or officer of special jurisdiction, it shall not be
necessary to state the facts conferring jurisdiction, but such
judgment or determination may be stated to have been duly
given or made. If such allegation is made in a complaint, and
is not controverted in the ‘answer, or made in the answer in
relation to acounter—claim or set-off, and is not controverted in
the reply, it need not be proved on the trial. '

SEC. 142. In pleading the performance of a condition
precedent in a contract, it shall not be necessary to state the
facts showing such performance, but it may be stated, generally,’
that the party duly performed all the conditions on his part;
and if such allegation is not controverted as stated in the last
SEC. in regard to judgments, it shall not be necessary to
prove it on trial.

SEC. 143. In an action for libel or slander, it shall not
be neccessary to state in the complaint any extrinsic facts, for

the purpose of showing the application to the plaintifff of the
defamatory matter out of which the cause of action arose, but

it shall be suiiicient to state generally, that the same was published or spoken concerning the plaintifff; and if such allegation is not controverted as stated in Section 141, in regard to
judgments, it shall not be neccessary to prove it on trial.

SEC. 144. In the actions mentioned in the last section,
the defendant may, in his answer, allege both the truth of the
matter charged as defamatory, and any mitigating circumstances legally admissible in evidence, to reduce the amount of
damages, and whether he proves the justification or not, he may
give in evidence the mitigating circumstances.

SEC. 145. In an action for the recovery of real property,
it must be described in the complaint with such convenient

certainty as to enable an officer holding an execution to identify it. ‘

SEC. 146. Every material allegation of the complaint,
not specifically controverted by the answer, and every material
allegation of new matter, in the answer, constituting a counterclaim or set-off, not specifically controverted by the reply,
must, for the purpose of the action,’ be taken as true. But the
allegation of new matter in the answer, not relating to a counterclaim, or set-off, or of new matter in a reply, is to be deemed
controverted by the adverse party, as upon a direct denial or
avoidance, as the case may require. Allegations of value, or
of amount of damage, shall not be considered as true, by the
failure to controvert them.

SEC. 147. A material allegation in a pleading, is one
essential to the claim or defense, and which could not be stricken
from the pleading without leaving it insufficient. 4

SEC. 148. If either party shall rely upon any deed or
other writing, he shall file with his pleading, the original deed,
or writing, if in his power. If he cannot procure such deed,
or writing, he shall so state in his pleading, together with the
reasons therefore, and if such reasons are sufficient, he may file
the best evidence of the contents of such deed, or writing, in
his power. Original deeds and other writin gs, filed by either
party, as above provided, shall remain on file for the inspection of the other party, until allowed by the court to be withdrawn; and in such case, copies attested by the clerk, shall be
substituted by the parties withdrawing the original.

SEC. 149. In actions founded upon a note, bond, bill of
exchange, mortgage, or other written obligation of the defendI

ants, or any of them, the plaintiti may file with his complaint,
the affidavit of himself, or his agent, or attorney, to the effect
that afiiant verily believes that there is no good and valid

defense to said action upon the merits, and that if defense is

made thereto, it will be made for the purpose of delay, merely;
whereupon the court shall not allow an answer to be filed in
said action, or if filed, shall strike out the same, unless it be

accompanied with an affidavit to the effect that the afiiant verily

believes that there is a good and valid defense to said action,
upon the merits thereof. Provided: That such affidavit shall

not dispense with any verification required in other cases;
provided further: that if such defendant should fail to establish his defense to the merits of said case, the clerk shall tax
against him a docket fee for double the amount allowed by this

Code in other like actions.

CHAPTER VIII.

.7}! istakes in Pleadings and ./Imendm-ants.

SEC'l'IOS—

150. Variance between pleading and proof,
not material, unless the opposite

party is misled.
151. Facts to be found according to proof

and pleadings amended.
152. If claim or defense is unproved. in

its general scope, not a variance,
but fatal.

153. Plaintin' may amend without leave
before answer.

154. Party may answer or reply after
demurrer overruled.

155. Court may at any time permit amendments. Various amendments authorized. No error or defect in the proceedings to be regarded, which does

not etfeet the substantial rights of the
parties.





SECTION156. Supplemental pleadings allowed.

151’. If pleadings are amended, and the
party is not ready for trial in consequence thereof, the action is to be
continued.

158. Action not to be dismissed for want
of verification of complaint, if verfiled at the calling of the action for

trial.

159. No objection afterjndgment for want
of verfileation.

160. Court may permit amendments without verification.

SEC. 150. No variance between the allegation in a

pleading and the proof, is to be deemed material, unless it has
actually misled the adverse party to his prejudice, in maintaining his action or defense upon the merits. Whenever it is
alleged that a party has been so misled, that fact must be
shown to the satisfaction of the court, and it must also be
shown in what respect he has been misled; and thereupon, the

court may order the pleading to be amended, upon such terms.

as may be just. .
SEC. 151. Where the variance is not material, as provided in the last section, the court may direct the fact to be

found according to the evidence, and may order an immediate
amendment without costs.

SEC. 152. Where, however, the allegation of the claim
or defense, to which the proof is directed, is unproved, not in
some particular, or particulars only, but in its general scope
and meaning, it is not to be deemed a case of variance within
the last two sections, but a failure of proof.

SEC. 153. The plaintifff may amend his complaint, without leave, at any time. before an answer is filed, and Without
prejudice to the proceedings already had. .

SEC. 154. Upon a demurrer being overruled, the party
demurring may answer or reply.

SEC. 155. The court may, at any time, in furtherance of
justice, and on such terms as may be proper, amend any pleadings or proceedings, by adding or striking out the name of any
party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a
mistake in any other respect, or by inserting other allegations
material to the case; or when the amendment does not change
substantially the claim or defense, by conforming the pleading
or proceeding to the facts proved. The court may likewise,
in its discretion, allow an answer or reply to be made after the
time limited by this Code, or, by an order, enlarge such time.
And whenever any proceeding taken by a party fails to conform
in any respect, to the provisions of this Code, the court may
permit an amendment of such proceeding, so as to make it
conformable thereto. And when the allegations of a pleading
are so indefinite or uncertain that the precise nature of the

claim or defense is not apparent, the court may require the
pleading to be made detinite and certain by amendment. The
court must, in every stage of an action, disregard any error or
defect in the proceedings which does not affect the substantial
rights of the adverse party; and no judgment shall be reversed
or affected by reason of such error or defect.

SEC. 156. The plaintifff and defendant, respectively, may
be allowed, on motion, to make a supplemental complaint:
answer or reply, alleging facts material to the case, reocurring
after the filing of the former complaint, answer, or reply.

SEC. 157. \Vl1eu either party shall amend any pleading
or proceeding, and the court shall be satisfied, by affidavit or
otherwise, that the adverse party could not be ready for trial in
consequence thereof, a continuance may be granted to some
day in the same term, or to another term of the court.

SEC. 158. VVhere complaints are filed without veriiication, as required by Section 135, the action shall not, on that

account be dismissed, if the verification be made on or before
the calling of the action for trial.

SEC. 159. N o objection shall be taken, after judgment,
to any pleading for the want of, or defect in, the verification.

SEC. 160. Courts may permit the amendments author.
ized by this Chapter.to be made without being verified, as '
prescribed in Section 135, unless a new and distinct cause of
action or defense is thereby introduced.

CHAPTER IX.

In.terr0g”atorics.

S£C'l'I0.\'— SEC'I’IO.\'-161. Interrogatories may be annexed to 167. l’rovi.~;ions of section 162 apply to
pleadings in equitable proceedings. answers ofinterrogatories in proceedings at law.

103. Answers to interrogatories must distinguish between knowledge and in162. Party answering may state new
matter.

153. When interrogatories must be an! formation.
“‘'-“'‘l' 3 169. Must be veritled by oath; form of
1:11. Interrogatories may be annexed to  mmh

pleadings in proceedings at law in no
certain cases.

163. \Vhen to be answered.

1613 Trial not to be postponed on account In
of failure to answer interrogatories,
unless further cause be shown. In

. A(lVL‘l‘.\0 1)tll'l_Vlllll.)' be summoned to
testify. if he resides in the same or
adjoining county.

. Ilow interrogatories may be taken as
confessed.

. Court may compel answers to interrogatories .

SEC. 161. In actions by equitable proceedings, either

' party may annex to his complaint, answer or reply, written interrogatories to any one or more of the adverse parties, con.
cerning any of the material matters in issue in the action. The
answer to which, on oath, may be read by either party, as a
deposition between the party interrogating and the party
answering. ,

SEC. 162. The party answering shall not be confined to
responding merely to the interrogatories, but may state any
new matter concerning the same cause of action, which shall
likewise be read as a deposition.

SEC. 163. There the interrogatories are annexed to the
complaint, they shall be answered at the same time the party
is required to answer the complaint; where annexed to the
answer or reply, then in twenty days after notice shall be given
thereof to the adverse party or his attorney; but if answered
twenty days before the term at which the action stands regularly for trial, the action shall not be postponed on account of
their not being sooner answered. ,

SEC. 164. In actions by proceedingsat law, either party
may, in like manner, annex written interrogatories to any one
cr more of the adverse parties to his complaint, answer or reply,

concerning any material matter in issue in the action in the
following cases:

Fz'rst.—Wl1ere the party interrogated does not reside in the
same or adjoining county.

.SecomZ.-—\Vhcre the party interrogated is unable to attend
court on account of age, infirmity, or imprisonment, or is a

female.

SEC. 165. Where the interrogatories, in an action by
proceedings at law, are annexed to the complaint, they shall
be answered at the same time the complaint is required to be
answered; where annexed to the answer or reply, at or before
the calling of the cause for trial, where the party interrogated
had reasonable notice of their being filed.

SEC. 166. The trial of an action by proceedings at law,
shall not be postponed on account of the failure to answer the
interrogatories, if the party interrogated is present in court at

the trial, so that he may be orally examined; nor in case of his

absence, without an affidavit showing the facts the party
believed will be proved by the answers thereto, and that the
party has not filed the interrogatories, nor omitted to file
them for the purpose of delay. Whereupon, if the party will
consent that the facts stated in the aiiidavit shall be considered
as admitted by those interrogated, the trial shall not be postponed for that cause.

SEC. 167. The provisions in Section 162, shall apply to
the answers to interrogatories, in actions by proceedings at law.

SEC. 168. The party, in answering such interrogatories,
shall distinguish clearly between what is stated from his personal knowledge, and what is stated from information or belief
merely. An unqualified statement of a fact shall be considered as made of his personal knowledge.

SEC. 169. The answers to the interrogatories shall be
verified by the affidavit of the party answering, to the effect
that the statements inzthem made of his own personal knowledge are true, and those made from the information of others,
he believes to be true.

SEC. 170. Where the party resides in the same or an
adjoining county, he may be summoned by the adverse party,
and compelled to testify on the trial of an action by proceedings
at law, as any other witness.

SEC. 171. Where a party filing interrogatories shall
also file an affidavit that he verily believes the subject of the
interrogatories, or any of them, is in the personal knowledge
of the opposite party, and that his answer thereto, if truly
made from such knowledge, will sustain the claim or defense,
or any part thereof, and the opposite party shall fail, after reasonable time allowed therefore, to answer them, the claim or
defense, or the part thereof, according to such affidavit, shall be
deemed to be sustained, and judgment given accordingly.

SEC. 172. The Court may compel answers to interrogatories by process of contempt, and may on the failure of party
to answer them, after reasonable time allowed therefore, dismiss
the complaint or quash the answer of the party so failing.

TITLE VIII.

PROVISIONAL REMEDIES.

CHAPTER-- I CHAPTER—

2. Actions to recover personal property. | 5. Receive”
3- A““°hm9nt5' | 6. Deposit in Comt.

5

CHAPTER I.
drrest and Bail.

.urr1cLn- AB'l‘lCLB1. When and how an order of arrest may 3. Liability and discharge of bail, and of
be obtained. I amgeg-_
'2. Proceedings upon an order of arrest. I 4, Motion to vacate an order of arrest
ARTICLE I.

When and how an Order of yfrrest may be obtainecl.

SE\.“I'l0N— S]-xrnox ._

173 Defendant may 116110111 t0 1333- l 176. Form and requisites of an order of
17-1. Manner and grounds of obtaining an | M-rest

order of arrest 111. When returnable.
175. Not to be issued until bond with secu- I

rity is given.
SEC. 173. A defendant in a civil action can be arrested
and held to bail, only upon the conditions and in the manner
prescribed in this chapter.

SEC. 174. An order for the arrest of the defendant shall
be made by the clerk of the court in which the action is brought,
at its commencement, or at any time before judgment, when
there is filed in his office an affidavit of the plaintifff showing,

Fz'rst.—The nature of the plaintifff's claim.

Secoml.——That it it is just.

TIu°rd.—The amount or value, which the afliant believes the
plaintifff ought to recover.

Fo’urth.—That the atliant believed, either that the defendant
is about to depart from this State, and with the intent to
defraud his creditors, has concealed or removed from this State,
his property or so much thereof, that the process of the court
after judgment cannot be executed or that the defendant has
money, or securities for money, or evidence of debt, in the
possession of himself, or of others for his use, and is about to
depart from this State, without leaving property therein suilicient to satisfy the plaintifff's claim.

SEC. 175. The order of arrest shall not be issued by the
clerk, until there has been executed in his office by one or more

sufficient sureties of the plaintifff; a bond to the effect that the
plaintifff shall pay to the defendant all damages which he may
sustain by reason of the arrest, if the order is wrongfully
obtained.

SEC. 176. The order of arrest shall be addressed and
delivered. with a copy thereof, to the sheriff. It shall state the
names of the parties to the action, the court in which the action
is brought, and the amount of the plaintiii"s claim specified in
the affidavit, and shall require the sheriff to arrest the defend_
ant and hold him to bail in the sum of the plaintifff's claim’
with the probable costs of the action, not exceeding twenty-five
dollars, and to make return of the order on a day to be named

therein, with the bail bond, if any is taken.

SEC. 177. The return day of the order of arrest, when
issued at the commencement of an action, shall be the same as

that of the summons; when is sued afterward, it may be another
day in term, at the option of the plaintifff:

ARTICLE II.

Pr0cce(lin_g‘s upon an Order of .,~1rrcst.

s;c'rro.\'- . SECTIOX
17$ How exccutcd, _ 133. QllitllflC£1tl0l'lS Ofb8l'[..
170. The defendantto he eonmiittcd tojail  156. p13intin' may object to ban pm,
unless bailed. ,

_ ceeding thereon.
IEO. The defend:mt may deposit the

, 187. Otlicer not liable unless hail he ad'amonnt in the order of arrest, and he ‘

judged insufficient.

discharged.

13:. Sherilf to pay into court all deposits 188- Bail mliutlsed insufficient. not rein his haml,-_ 4 leased, but defendant: rearresbed.

182. Court to make proper orders for keep- 139- 5339011350115 against 'l07911d*U1t5 ‘J04?
ing the money. may he issued on judgment, whereIS3. sheriff otlicially liable for money dc- 11 llcfenlli‘-Ilt 1183 138011 m‘I'0SteIl and‘
posited with him. held to bail.

IS4. Manner of giving ball. I
SEC. 178. The Sheriff shall execute the order of arrest
by arresting the defendant and delivering to him a copy

thereof.

SEC. 179. The defendant, when arrested, shall’ be com»
mitted by the Sheriff‘ to the jail of his county, a copy of the .
order of arrest being delivered to the jailor, and, unless bailed,
kept in custody in the manner provided by law in the case of

a defendant taken in execution upon a judgment in a civil
action, until discharged in the mode and upon the conditions
prescribed by law.

SEC. 180. The defendant may before or after giving
bail, deposit in the hands of the Sheriff or in court, the amount
of money mentioned in the order of arrest, whereupon he shall
be discharged, or his bail,if any is given, shall be released.

SEC. 181. The Sheriif shall pay into the court the money
received by him in vacation, in lieu of bail on the first day of
the next term. \Vl1ere it is received during a term, he shall
pay it into the court immediately. .

SEC. 182. The court shall make proper orders for the
safe keeping of money deposited in lieu of bail. It may direct the Sheriff to keep the monies, and, after final judgment,
in the action, shall order it to be paid to the party entitled
thereto, according to the result.

SEC. 183. Money deposited in the hands of the Sheriff
in lieu of bail, or directed by the court to be kept by him,
shall be held upon his oilicial responsibility, and he and his
sureties shall be liable, and may he proceeded against for any
default in relation thereto, as in other cases of delinquency.

SEC. 183. Bail may be given by the defendant on his
arrest, or at any time afterward before judgment. It shall be
done by causing one or more sufficient bail to execute a bond
to the plaintifff in the presence of the Sheritf, or of the jailor
where the defendant has been committed to jail, to the effect

that, if judgement shall be rendered in the action against the ‘

defendant, he will render himself amenable to the process of
the court thereupon. The bond, when accepted, shall be returned to the clerk’s office, and the defendant discharged.
SEC. 185. The bail must he a resident of this State, and
be worth double the sum specified in the order of arrest beyond

the amount of his debts, and have property in the State sub- .

ject to execution, at least equal in value to that sum. If two
or more become bail, they must, in the aggregate possess the
same qualifications. The bail, if it is required by the Sheriff;
shall make affidavit of their qualifications before him.

SEC. 186. If the plaintifff objects to the bail for insufiiciency, he may move his objections in court during the
term at which the bail bond is returned, and not afterward,
except where the bond is returned within the iast three days of
the term, in which case the motion may be made on the first
day of the succeeding term. The motion cannot be made
unless the plaintifff has given to the Sheriff, or to the jailor
where the bond was taken by him, notice thereof, and if the
notice is adjudged unreasonable, the court may continue the
motion to some day in the same, or the succeeding term.

SEC. 187. If the motion is not made, or the bail is not
thereupon adjudged insuiiicient, the officer shall be exonerated
from liability by reason of the insuiiiciency of the bail.

SEC. 188. The bail adjudged insniiicient shall not be
thereby released, but an order shall forthwith be made to rearrest the defendant, and, thereupon, the same proceedings
may be had, and with the like effect, as are directed upon an
order of arrest. °

SEC. 189. Upon judgments in actions in which the defendant has been arrested and held to bail, and in which the
order of arrest has not been vacated, an execution against the
body of the defendant may be issued, upon which the same
proceedings shall be had, and the defendant shall be dealt with
in the same manner as provided by law in the civil actions in
which executions may be issued against the body of the defendant, except that the oath of insolvency upon reasonable
.notice may be taken at any time after the arrest by delivering to
the plaintifff, his agent, or attorney a schedule of the property
intended to be surrendered, although said schedule may not
have been delivered ten days before the taking of such oath_
This exception shall also apply to section 185 of this Code.

ARTICLE III.

Liability and Discliarge of Bail, and of 0]?icer.s.

 

-‘S3C'l'lON— n:c'rIo1~'—
190. Bail may surrender defendant and 194, causes of cxoneration of bail,
be d1scharsed- 195. when the Sher-in‘ is liable.

H91. Bail may arrest or cause an omccr to
arrest defendant to surrender him.

192. How the liability of bail is fixed.

193. Bail to he proceeded against in a
separate action.

196. How his liability is fixed.
19?. The bail xuljualged insuilicient liable
to oillcer.

 
 

SEC. 190. A surrender of the defendant to the Sheriff
of the county in which he was arrested, with a delivery to him
of a copy of the order of arrest, and of the bail bond by the
defendant himself, or by his bail at any time before the liability of the bail is fixed, shall discharge the bail. The Sheriff
shall give to the bail a written acknowledgment of the surrender, and commit the defendant to the jail of his county, with
his order endorsed upon the copy of the bail bond delivered to
the jailer.

SEC. 191. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the bail may, at any time or place, arrest him, or authorize, in writing indorsed upon a copy of the order of arrest and
bail bond, the Sheriff‘ or any constable to do so.

SEC. 192. A return of “not found” upon an execution
against the body of the defendant, placed in the hands of the

Sheriff of the county in which he was arrested, within twenty days after it might have issued upon the judgment, shall be
necessary to fix the liability of the bail, which shall be, to pay
the amount of the judgment and costs.

SEC. 193. The bail can he proceeded against in a separate action only.

SEC. 194. He will be exonerated by the death of the
defendant, or his removal from this State under process of law
as a fugitive, before the return day of the summons served
upon the bail in the action to enforce his liability, or by the
imprisonment of the defendant in the penitentiary, or his legal

discharge from the obligation to render himself amenable to

the process of the court, or by his surrender to the Sheriff of
the county in which he was arrested in execution thereof, by

the return day of the summons in the action against the bail,

or within such further time as the court in which the action is

pending may allow. If the defendant is confined in any jail of
this State, the bail will be exonerated by delivering to the

jailor thereof‘, at any time before the return day of the summons in the action against the bail, a certified copy of the

order of arrest, and of the bail bond, with a written order thereupon to detain the defendant in custody until discharged by

law from the action in which the bond was given. The jailor

shall give a written acknowledgment of the receipt of the
order, which shall be filed with the original bond.

SEC. 195. If, after being arrested, the defendant escapes,
or is rescued, or bail is not taken, or is adjudged insufficient,
or a deposit is not made, the Sheriff shall be liable as bai ,
unless he had committed the defendant to jail and obtained
written acknowledgment thereof from the jailor, in which case
the jailor shall be so liable. Either officer may discharge himself from such liability by putting in sufficient bail at any time
before judgment. ’

SEC. 196. The liability of the officer as bail, shall be
fixed in the manner provided in Section 192, and can be enforced only in a separate action against him, or against him
and his securities in his official bond, as in other cases of de_ linquency.

SEC. 197. The bail adjudged insuiiicient, shall be liable
to the officer for the damages he may sustain by reason of such
insutiiciency.

ARTICLE IV.

Jfotion to Vacate an Order of tlrrest,

SECTIO.\'—- SBc,n0\,_
198. Court or Judge in vacation may

vacate an order of arrest, or reduce
the bail on motlon, on reasonable

200. Motion may be supported or opposed by anidavits.

notice. 201. Writ of scire facias against bail
199. . Decisions of Probate Judge not abolishednnah

SEC. 198. A defendant against whom an order of arrest
has been obtained, may, at any time before judgment in the
action, and before a decision of a motion on account of the insufliciency of the bail, apply to the court; or, in vacation and
before executing a bail bond, to the judge thereof, or any judge
of the Supreme Court, Circuit or Probate Court of the county,
by motion to vacate the order of arrest, or to reduce the amount
of bail. Reasonable notice of the motion shall be given to the
plaintifff. If satisfied that the bail ought not to have been required, or that the sum for which it was demanded is too large,
the court or judge may vacate the order of arrest, or reduce the
amount of bail.

SEC. 199. The decision of the motion shall be final in
the action, but shall not affect the rights of the parties in any
other action: Provided, That when such decision is rendered
by a probate judge, and either party excepts thereto, said probate judge shall note the exception, and order the motion to
be transferred for hearing and decision, to a judge of the Snpreme Court, or a Circuit Judge, to be designated in such
order of transfer ; and such motion shall be heard and determined by the judge to whom it is transferred, as provided in
this section. Upon such exception being taken before the probate judgc. all proceedings upon his decision shall be stayed.
SEC. 200. Upon the vacation of the order of arrest, the

defendant shall be discharged, or the bail bend, it‘ any is given,
shall be cancelled. If the motion is supported by affidavits or
other evidence out of the record, the plaintifff may oppose it by

aiiidavits or other evidence, in addition to that on which the

order of arrest was obtained.
SEC. 201. The writ of scire facias against bail is abolished.

CHAPTER II.

tdction. to recover Personal Property.

SECTION-—
maintin’, if it was taken under execution or distress warrant.

SECTIO.\‘—- .
29-2. Plaintiff may claim immediate delivery in any action to recover personal property. 210. In other cases to be delivered to the
‘In. How and what causes an order for defendant, if he executes bond with
delivery may be made. security in two days. If bond is not
‘:04. Anldavit must state the value of executed, to be delivered to the
each article. plaintiil‘.

211. Either party may cause the property
to be valued before bond is given.

55. To whom the order for delivery must
be addressed, and how executed.

506. Delivery not to be made unless plaintin‘ executes a bond.

em. Provisions of the bond to be executed vvhen the action is against an
officer acting under an execution or
distress warrant.

see. The manner of executing an order
for delivery of property.

209. The propertyto be delivered to the

Sscrrox 202.

212. The expenses of keeping the property
to be taxed in the costs.

213. Proceedings where the property is
claimed by a stranger.

214. The order may be issued to another
county at any time before Judgment.

215. Defendant may be compelled to disclose the situation of property eoncealed or disposed of.

SEC. 202. The plaintifff in an action to recover the possession of specific personal property, may, at the commencement of the action, or at any time before judgment, claim the
immediate delivery of the property, as herein provided.
SEC. 203. An order for the delivery of property to the
plaintifff, shall be made by the clerk, when there is filed in his
oiiice an aiiidavit of the plaintifff showingI':'rst.—A. particular description of property claimed.
Second.—Its actual value and the damages which the aiiiant
believes the plaintifff ought to recover for the detention thereof.
TIu’rd.—That the plaintifff is the owner of the property, or
has a special ownership, or interest therein, stating the facts in

relation thereto, and that he is entitled to the immediate possession of the property. _ .

FourtIz.—That the property is wrongfully detained by the
defendant.

Fg']"tIz.—That it has not been taken for a tax or fine against
the plaintifff, or under any order or judgment of a court against
him, or seized under an execution or attachment against his
property; or, if so seized, that it is by statute exempt from
such seizure.

Sz':cth.—That the plaintifffs’ cause of action has accrued Within one year. Where the action is broughtto recover property
taken under an execution or distress warrant, the affidavit
must state the fact of the taking, and the nature of the process
under which it was done.

SEC. 204. There the delivery of several articles of
property is claimed, the affidavit must state the value of each.

SEC. 205. The order for the delivery of the property to
the plaintifff shall be addressed and delivered with a copy
thereof to the Sheriif. It shall state the names of the parties
to the action, and the court in which the action is brought, and
direct the Sheriff to take the property, describing it, and
stating its value as in the aiiidavit of the plaintifff, and deliver
it to him, and make return of the order on a day to be named
therein. The order shall be made returnable as an order of
arrest is directed to be returned.

SEC. 206. The order shall not be complied with by the
Sheriff until there has been executed in his presence by one
or more sufficient sureties of the plaintifff, a bond to the defendant to the efiect that the plaintifff shall duly prosecute the
action, and that he shall perform thejudgment of the court
therein by returning the property, if a return thereof shall be
adjudged, and by paying such sums of money as may be adjudged against him in the action, not exceeding double the
value of the property and the costs of the action.

SEC. 207. Where the action is brought against a Sheriff,
or other oiiicer, to recover possession of property taken by him
under an execution against a person other than the plaintifffs

or under a distress warrant, the bond provided for in the last section shall be to the effect that the plaintifff shall duly prosecute the action, and that he shall perform the judgment of
the court therein by returning the property, if a return thereof
shall be adjudged, and by paying to the defendant, or to the
plaintifff in the execution, or the party who sued out the distress warrant, as may be directed by the court, such sums of
money as may be adjudged against the plaintifff in the action,
not exceeding double the value of the property and the costs of
the action.

SEC. 208. The Sheriff shall execute the order by taking
the property therein mentioned, if it is found in the possession
of the defendant, or of his agent, or of any other person who
obtained possession thereof from defendant, directly or indirectly, after the order was placed in the Sheriti"s hands. He
shall also deliver a copy of the order to the defendant, or to
the person from whose possession the property is taken, or if
neither can be found, leave it at the usual place of abode of
either, with some person of the age of sixteen years.

SEC. 209. If the affidavit of the plaintifff states that the
property was taken under an execution or distress warrant, the
Sheriff shall deliver it to the plaintifff. In every other case
he shall retain the property in his possession for two days, unless the bond mentioned in the succeeding section shall be
sooner executed.

SEC. 210. Within two days after the taking of the property by the Sheriff, the defendant, or any one for him, may,
in the case in which the property was not taken under an
execution or distress warrant, cause a bond to be executed to
the plaintifff in the presence of the Sheriff, by one or more
sufficient sureties, in double the value of the property, to the
effect that the defendant shall perform the judgment of the
court.in the actions, whereupon the Sheriff shall restore the
property to the defendant, or to the person in whose possession it was found. If such bond is not executed within the
time above limited, the Sheriff shall deliver the property to the

plaintifff. He shall return the bonds with the order.

SEC. 211. Before taking any bond the Sheriii‘ shall,
upon the suggestion of either party that the value of the property is not truly stated in the order for its delivery, and where
the suggestion is on the part of the defendant, on his producing the property to the Sheriff, select three disinterested
house-keepers to appraise the same under oath, to be administered by him, whose appraisement, indorsed upon the
order, shall be regarded as the value of the property in taking
the bonds.

SEC. 212. The Sheriff shall safely keep the property, and
sltall be allowed by the court the necessary expense of doing
so, to be paid by the plaintifff and taxed in the costs.

SEC. 213. If another person than the defendant, or his
agent, claims the property taken by the Sheriff and delivers to
the Sheriff his affidavit that he is entitled to the possession
thereof, the Sheriff shall not be bound to keep it, or deliver it
to the plaintifff", unless he shall, within two days after the delivery to him, or to his agent, or attorney, by the Sheriff, of a
copy of the aiiidavit to indemnify the Sheriff against the claims
by a bond executed by one or more suiiicient sureties, in
double the value of the property. No claim to such property
by any other person than the defendant, or his agent, shall be
valid against the Sheriff unless so made. He shall return the
afhdavit of the claimant, with his proceedings thereon, to the
clerk's office.

SEC. 214. An order may at any time before judgment,
be directed to any other county for the delivery of the property
claimed. And several orders may issue at the same time, or
successively, at the option of the plaintifff. But only one of
them shall be taxed in the costs, unless otherwise ordered by
the court.

SEC. 215. Where it appears by the aiiidavit of the plaintifff, or by the return of the order of delivery, that the property
claimed has been disposed of or concealed, so that the order
cannot be executed, the court may compel the attendance of
the defendant, examine him on oath as to the situation of the
property, and punish a disobedience of its orders in this respect
as in cases of contempt.

CHAPTER III.

./rlttachment,
AR‘i'iCI.E— I ARTICLI-:1. General attachnients. '  Attaciunents :ugain.~.t .~}il.'(,'iiil' pro“.'. Attachments‘ in certain at-lions. I perty.
I 4. Discharge and reinstatement oi‘
I atttushmcnt.
ARTICLE I.
General .4tta,ohmcnt,
scnDIv13ios— SUBDIVISION1. Grounds of attachment.
3. How an attachment is obtained.
3. Execution and return of attachment.

4. Disposition of attached property.
5. Froceedings upon attachments.

SUBDIVISION I.

Grounds of aittachment,

SECTION‘216. Grounds on which plaintifff may have an I
attachment in civil action for the recovery I
of money or personal property, shall not
in granted against a non-resident or for- I

eign corporation. except for a demand
arising upon contract,

SEC. 216. The plaintifff in a civil action may, at or after
the commencement thereof, have an attachment against the

property of the defendant, in the cases and upon the grounds

hereinafter stated, as a security for the satisfaction of such
judgment as may be recovered.

First.—I11 an action for the recovery of money, where the
action is against1. A defendant, or several defendants who, or some one

of whom, is a foreign corporation, or a non-resident of thc_

State; or,
2. Who has been absent therefrom four months; or,

3. Has departed from this State, with intent to defraud his
creditors; or, '

4. Has left the county of his residence to avoid the service
of a summons; or,

5. So conceals himself that a summons cannot be served
upon him; or

6. Is about to remove, or has removed his property, or a
material part thereof, out of this State, not leaving enough
therein to satisfy the plaintifff’s claim, or the claim of said defendants creditors; or,

7. Has sold, conveyed, or otherwise disposed of his property, or suffered, or permitted it to be sold, with the fraudulent intent to cheat, hinder, or delay his creditors; or,

8. Is about to sell, convey, or otherwise dispose of his property, with such intent. But an attachment shall not be granted on the ground that the defendant or defendants, or any of
them, is a foreign corporation, or a non-resident of this State,
for any claim other than a debt or demand arising upon contract.

9. The cause of attachment mentioned in the preceding
sub-divisions against one or more defendants to a civil action,
shall not authorize an attachment. against any of the defendants who are not embraced in any of said sub-divisions; but the
estate or interest of such defendants, only as are embraced
therein, shall be subject to attachment.

Secondly. In an action to recover possession_ of personal
property, where it has been ordered to be delivered to the
plaintifff, and where the property, or part thereof, has been disposed of, concealed or removed, so that the order for its de_
livery cannot be executed by the officer.

SUBDIVISION II .

How an Attachnwnt is Obtained.

counties, but only those executed to
be taxed in the costs.

222. Amdavit for attachment may be
amended. Etfect of amendment.

211. In an action to rocover money, clerk
to grant the attachment upon affidavit. Nature of affidavit.

218. May be granted upon the return of

a summons by the proper officer. 293- A030“ 108)’ be M0118“ “UNIV 001111219. No attachment to be issued until : tr WHEN "1070 is Pl‘0P€|‘¢)' 01' defendplaintiff executes bond with security. U 3M"01' 3 831'ni5h98 230. How and by whom the attachment to § 994- l’laintitf may have attachment
be executed. I against a garnishee .

1 221. Attachment may be issued to several

SEC. 217. An order of attachment shall be made by the
the clerk of the court in which the action is brought in any
case mentioned in the first subdivision of Section 216, where
there is filed in his oiiice an afhdavit of the plaintifff, showingF irst.—The nature of the plaintifff s claim.

SeconaT.—That it is just.

Tin’:-d.—The amount which the aiiiant believes the plaintili‘
ought to recover; and,

Fourth.—The existence in the action of some one of the
grounds for an attachment enumerated in that subdivision;
and in the case mentioned in the second subdivision of Section 216, Where it is shown by such affidavit, or by the return
of the sheriff or other officer upon the order for the delivery of
the property claimed, that the facts Inentioned in that subdivision exist.

SEC. 218. Wllell the return by the proper oiiicer upon
a summons against a defendant, states that he has left the
county to avoid the service of the summons, or has concealed
himself therein for that purpose, it shall be equivalent to the
statement of the fact in the aiiidavit mentioned in the last section.

SEC. 219. The order of attachment shall not be issued
by the clerk until there has been executed in his office, by one
or more sufficient sureties of the plaintifff, a bond to the effect

that the plaintifff shall pay to the defendant all damages which
he may sustain by reason of the attachment, _ if the order is
wrongfully obtained.

SEC. 220. The order of attachment shall be directed
and delivered to the sheriff or other officer, with as many copies
thereof as the plaintifff may direct. It shall require him to attach and safely, keep the property of the defendant in his
county not exempt from execution, or so much thereof as will
satisfy the plaintili’s claim specified in his aiiidavit, which shall
be stated in the order, and the probable costs of the action not
exceeding thirty dollars; also, to summon the garnishees to answer in the action on the return day of the order, and to make
due return thereof. The order shall be made returnable as an
order of arrest is directed to be returned. 2 ,

SEC. 221. Orders of attachment may be issued to the
sheriffs or other oiiicers of other counties, and several of them
may, at the option of the plaintifff, jbe issued at the same
time, or in succession. But such only as have been executed
in whole or in part, shall be taxed in the costs,: unless otherwise directed by the court.

SEC. 222. The affidavit, or grounds of attachment, may ,

be amended so as to embrace any grounds of attachment that

,may exist up to, and until, the final judgment upon the same.

If the amendment embrace grounds existing at the time of the
commencement of said proceeding, and is sustained upon such
grounds, the lien created by the suing out or levying of the
original attachment, shall be held good; but if the amendments embrace new grounds not existing at the time of suing
out the original attachment, and the attachment shall be sustained on such new grounds only, the lien shall exist on the
property, levied from the filing of the same. And a general
order sustaining the attachment Without designating the
grounds upon which it is sustained, shall be equivalent to sustaining the same on grounds that existed at the time the at- 2

tachment was sued out.
SEC. 223. Attachments may be sued out, and the actions in which the same are obtained, may be prosecuted in any

county in which property may be attached, or a garnishee, who
is indebted, or has property belonging to the defendant, is
served with process.

SEC. 224. The plaintifff in civil action may have an attachment against the property of a garnishee who is made a
defendant thereto, by stating in his affidavit some one or more
of the grounds of attachment mentioned in this chapter, and
the amount which the garnishee is indebted to the principal

‘debtor, and executing bond to said garnishee.

SUBDIVISION II I.

Execution and Return of .4tta_chmentsncr1os— ' SECTION215. What officer may serve process in 231. Beforepossession is taken of personal
provisional remedies. property held jointly or in common’

bond must be executed by plaintiff to
joint tenant, etc.

232. Attachment creates a lien to the
same extent and similar to an exe226. Attachments against the same defendant to be executed in the order
received by the onicer.

22:. Manner of executing an attachment. canon
Fir“-‘UP°“ '9'“ l“‘°P°"t7- 133. Sheritfs, or other officer may, in
3°°°‘“l-"'P°"“°“‘l 1"'°P°“Y “Fable twenty-four hours alter removal of
°{ d'3“"°1'.V'- property to another county, pursue
Third.-Upon other personal property. and take it, °

'33- Dill!’ Of the Shmlshee W ihf0l‘m the 234. Sherin‘ or other officer may deliver
sheritr or other onlcer of the amount property to thg person in pggses0740“. emu “P011 Which the 8“-80h‘ sion, upon bond with security being
ment is levied. given_

229. Attachment must be levied first on z35_ property mug dent-cred to be 11,-5;,
personal property. and lastly on real appraised,

rt . '

props y 286. No defense to an action on the

2-10. attachments levied on a fund in bond. that the Property was not sub(onrt by leaving with the clerk a jecggothe attaghment
copy of the order, and notice of the 231. The return by the Sheritr or other
fund attached. officer of an attachment.

SEC. 225. The orders and processes in provisional remedies issued from the Circuit or Chancery Courts may be
directed to or served by the sherifl or any officer mentioned in section 83, and shall be valid for all purposes as if the same
had been served by the sheriff. ,

SEC. 226. Where there are several orders of attach.
ment against the same defendant, they shall be executed in the

order‘ in which they were received by the sheriff or other
officer.

SEC. 227. The order of attachment shall be executed
by the sheriffor other otlieer without delay, in the following
manner:

Fz'rst.—Upon real property by leaving with the occupant
thereof, or it’ there is no occupant, in a conspicuous place
thereon, a copy of the order.

Sccond.—Upon personal property capable of manual delivery, .

l)y taking it into his custody, and holding it subject to the order
of the court.

T1557‘/].-L'pOll other personal property, by delivering a copy
of the order, with a notice specifying the property attached, to
the person holding the same; or as to a debt or demand, to the
person owing it; or as to stock in a corporation, or property
held, or a debt or demand owing by it, to the chief othccr, or
to the secretary, cashier, treasurer or managing agent thereof,
and by summoning the person or corporation to answer as a
garnishee in the action. The sheriffshall deliver copies to and
summon such persons as garnishees as the plaintifff may direct.

SEC. 228. _ -It shall be the duty of every person mentioned

in the third subdivision of the last section, to whom the sheriff

shall apply therefore, to furnish him with a certificate of the
number of shares of the defendant in the stock of the corporation, a description of the property held by such corporation or
person belonging to or for the benefit of the defendant, or the
amount of the debt owing to the defendant, by such corporation
or person, whether due or not; and a failure to perform this
duty may be punished by the court as a contempt. 
SEC. 229. The defendant's personal property shall be
first taken under an attachment; if enough thereof is not found,
then his real property.

SEC. 230. VVherc the property to be attached is a fund
in court, the execution of the order of attachment shall be,
by leaving with the clerk of the court a copy thereof, with :1
notice specifying the fund; and where several orders of attachment are executed upon such fund on the same day, they shall
be satisfied out of it ratably.

SEC. 231. The sheriff shall not, in executing an order of

attachment upon personal property, held by the defendant

jointly or in common with another person, take possession of

such property, until there has been executed a bond to such
other person, by one or more sutficientsureties of the plaintifff,
to the effect that he shall pay to such person the damages he may
sustain by the wrongful suing out of the order.

SEC. 232. An order of attachment binds the defendant’s
property in the county which might be seized under an exe
cutiou against him, from the time of the delivery of the order
to the Sheriffin the same manner as an execution would bind
it; and the lien to the plaintifff is completed upon any property
or demand of the defendant, by executing the order upon it in
the manner directed in this article.

SEC. 233. If, after an order of attachment has been
placed in the hands of the sheriff or other officer, any property
of the defendant is removed from the county, the sheriff may

pursue and attach the same in another county, within twentyfour hours after removal.

SEC. 234. The sheriff may deliver any attached property
to the person in whose possession it was found, upon the execution, in the presence of the sheriff, of a bond to the plaintifff, by
such person, with one or more sufficient sureties to the effect
that the obligors are bound, in double the value of the property,
that the defendant shall perform the judgment of the court in
the action, or that the property, or its value, shall be forthcoming, and subject to the orders of court for the satisfaction
ofsueh judgment.

SEC. 235. For the purpose of taking this bond, the
sheriff shall cause the property to be appraised by three
disinterested householders, to be selected and sworn by him
to make fair appraisment on the order or attachment.

SEC. 236. In any proceeding on this bend, it shall not
be a defense that the property was not subject to the attachment.

SEC. 237. The sheriff shall return, upon every order of

the property attached, the time it was attached, and the dispo~
Siti0I1 made 0f it Where garnishees are summoned, their
names, and the time each was summoned, must be stated_
And where real property is attached, the sheriff shall describe
it with suilicient certainty toidentify it, and, where he can do so,
a reference to the deed or title under which the defendant holds
it. He shall return 'with the order all bonds taken under it.

SUBDIVISION IV.

Disposition of ./fttached Property.

SECTION7288. Court to make orders concerning

attached property. when sale may ‘
be ordered, in term or vacation. l
Terms or sale. I I

239. Receiver may be appointed.

8EC'l'l0N.—240. She:-it!’ to be allowed expenses or keep"ing property attac-hed._

241. Defendant or claimant of attached
property maybe compelled to give
information on oath concerning it.

SEC. 238. The court shall make proper orders for the
preservation and use of the property during the pending of the
action, and for paying into court or securing the debts and
funds attached. It may direct a sale of the property, where,
by reason of its perishable nature, or of the cost of keeping it,
a sale would be for the benefit of the parties. In vacation,
such sale may he ordered by the judge of the court, or, of any
such property by the Probate Judge of the county. The sale
shall be public, after advertisement, and made in such manner,
and upon such terms of credit, with security, as the court or
judge, having regard to the probable duration of the action,
may direct. The proceeds, if collected by the sheriff, together
with all the money received by him from garnishees, shall beheld
and paid over by him under the same requirement and responsibilities of himself and his sureties, as are provided in respect to
money deposited in lieu of bail. But no such sale shall he
made in vacation without reasonable notice in writing to the
opposite party or his attorney (if either of them reside in the

county in which the cause is pending) of the time and place of
the application therefore.

SEC. 239. A Judge of the Supreme Court or Circuit
Court, or Probate Judge, in vacation of the Circuit Court, shall
have power to appoint a receiver to take charge of, collect and
account for all choses in action, attached in any action, and
said receiver shall have full power to collect the same. He
shall give bond and in ‘all respects be subject to the same
responsibilities, as if appointed by the Court in term time.
And the defendant or any claimant of any attached property
may be required by the court or by such receiver to give information on oath respecting the property.

SEC. 240. The sheriff or other officer shall be allowed
by the court the necessary expense of ‘keeping the attached

property, to be paid by the plaintifff, and taxed in the costs.

SEC. 241. When ‘it appears by the affidavit of the
plaintifff, or by the return of an officer to an order of attachment, that no property is known to the plaintiti, or the oiii cer,
-on which the order of attachment can be executed, or not
enough to satisfy the plaintifff’s claim, the defendant may be
required by the court to attend before it, and give information
on oath, respecting his property; and where it also appears, by
the atiidavit of the plaintifff, that some person, other than the
defendant, has in his possession property of the defendant, or
evidences of debt, such person may also be required by the

court to attend before it, and give information, on oath respecting the same.

SUBDIVISION V .

1’rocecclirz,g’s Upon .4ttcwhnz,ent.

SEC'l'IO.\'— ’ SECTION242. Defendant may have attachment dis- ‘ 251. Real property attached not to be sold;
charged bygiving bond and security. unless defendant was summoned ’or

243. Such bond may be executed before ‘ appeared, or affidavit by the plaintin‘
the she;-in‘ or cm;-k_ of insumciency of personal property244. Garnishee may pay money to the . 952. Sllrplus 01‘ attached property to be
sherifforinto court, andbedischarged ‘ return-‘.ed to defendant.

M liabim-V‘ when liable rm.’ when i 258. Manner and terms of selling attached:
exempt from, and when entitled to . property

costs‘ 254. Court may compel delivery of at.245. Garuishee summoned must appear tacked pmpert‘, for sale
. _, ,

“ml nmkc f“11(lis°l°sm°' y 255. Court to make orders concerning at“246. Garnishee may be examined, and { waned property’ its sale and ,,ppn_

money, etc., disclosed, paid as court 1 cation
directs, or retained by garnishee s
upon bond and security. 1
2-17. Appearance and examination of gar- ‘.

256. Sherin‘ may be ordered to re-possess
himself of attached property for sale,

nishee may be compelled. I i‘ he does etc’ _
not appem, other proof maybe made 257. Any person may prefer a claim to.

.243_ Irlaintim may pmceed against gap attached property, and his claim shall
nishec afterhe is summoned, byregu- be 1|dJl1di0M9‘1- whim were SP0
lar action. several attachments on same prop~

249. Ifjndgmentis rendered fordefendant, 0")’. Tehrence ‘O 8-‘ccfmill P7503‘attachment to be discharged. M05250. If judgment is for plaintiff, attached 253- Plnintiif may be required to give mlproperty and money to be applied to ‘1iti0|1111 S00“1‘5t)'its payment.

SEC. 242. If the defendant, at any time before judgment,
causes a bond to be executed to the plaintifff by one or more
sufiicient sureties to be approved by the court, to the effect
that defendant shall perform the judgment of the Court, theattachment shall be discharged, and restitution made of any
property taken under it, or the proceeds thereof.

SEC. 243. The bond mentioned in the last section, may‘
in vacation, be executed in the presence ‘of the sheriff having
the order of attachment in his hands, or, after the return of the
order, before the clerk, with same effect upon the attachment
as if executed in court; the sureties, in either case, to be
approved by the officer.

SEC. 244. The garnishee may pay the money owing to»
the defendant by him, to the sheriff having in his hands the

order of attachment, or into the court. He shall be discharged
from liability to the defendant, for any money so paid, not
exceeding the plaintifff's claim. He shall not be subjected
to costs beyond those caused by his resistance of the claim,
against him ; and if he discloses the property of the defendantin his hands, or the true amount owing by him, and delivers
or phys the same according to the order of the court, he shall

he allowed his costs.

SEC. 245. Each garnishee summoned shall appear.
The appearance maybe in person, or by affidavit of the garnishee~.
filed in court, disclosing truly the amount owing by him to
the defendant, whether due or not, and the property of the

defendant in the possession or under the control of the

garnishee; and -in the case of a corporation, any shares of
stocks therein held, by or for the benefit of the defendant, at
or after the service of the order of attachment.

SEC. 246. Where a garnishee or officer of a corporation
summoned as a garnishee, appeared in person, he may be
examined on oath; and if it is discovered on such examination
that, at or after the service of the order of attachment upon
him, he or the corporation was possessed of any property of the
defendant, or was indebted to him, the court may order the
delivery of such property and the payment, or security for the
payment of the amount owing by the garnishee, into the court,
or to such person as it may direct, who shall give bond, with
security for the same ; or the court may permit the garnishee to
retain the property or the amount owing, upon the execution
of a bond with one or more sufficient sureties, to the effect that
the amount shall be paid, or the property shall be forthcoming,
as the court may direct. Performance of these bonds may be
summarily enfored by orders and proceedings as in cases of
contempt.

SEC. 247. The court may, on the motion of the plaintifff,
compel the appearance in person, and examination of any
garnishee, or officer of a corporation summoned as a garnishee,
by process as in cases of contempt; or, where a garnishee
makesa default by not appearing, it may hear proof of any

debt or property owing or held by him to or for the defendant,
and make such order in relation thereto, as if what is so
proved had appeared on the examination of the garnishee.
SEC. 248. Upon the service of a summons upon any
garnishee, or after his failure to make a disclosure satisfactory
to the plaintifff, the latter may proceed in an action against him,
by filing a complaint verified as in other cases, and causing a
summons to be issued upon it; and, thereupon, such proceeding
A may be had as in other actions, and judgment be rendered in
favor of the plaintifff to subject the property of the defendant in
the hands of the garnishee, or forwhat shall appear to be owing
to the defendant by the garnishee. The judgment may be

enforced by execution, or other proper means.
SEC. 249. If judgment is rendered in the action for the

defendant, the attachment shall be discharged, and the property
attached, or its proceeds, shall be returned to him.

SEC. 250. If judgment is rendered for the plaintifff, the
courtshall apply in satisfaction thereof,

Fz'rst.—The monies arising from the sales of perishable
property. 2

Second.—The proceeds of the debts and funds attached in the
hands of the garnishees. If these are not sufficient tO'satisfy
the plaintifff's claim, the court shall order a sale, by the sheriff,
of any other attached property which may be under its control,
in the following order:

1. Personal property.

2. Real property, or so much therof as may be necessary to
satisfy the plaintifff's claim. ‘

SEC. 251. No order for the sale of real property attached
in virtue of the provisions of this article, shall be made in any
action in which the defendant has not appeared or been actually
summoned, until there has been filed an affidavit of the plaintifff, or of his agent or attorney, to the effect that the defendant
has no personal property, or not enough to satisfy the claim of the
plaintifff, in this State, known to the afliant.

SEC. 252. Any surplus of the attached property, or its
proceeds, shall be returned to the defendant.

Sncrrox 253. The sales shall be public, upon such notice,
and at such time and place as the court may direct. When

credits are given, bonds, with security, shall be required; and i

the credit shall not be longer than three months for personal
property, and not less than three or more than twelve months
for real property, or on installments equivalent to not more
than twelve months, credit on the whole; and, upon real prop‘

erty, a lien shall be retained. The sales shall be subject to the
confirmation of the court.

SEC. 254. The court may compel the delivery to the
sheriff, for sale, of any of the attached property for which a
bond may have been given, and may proceed summarily on such

bend to enforce the delivery of the property, or the payment of *

such sums as may be due upon the bond, by rules and attachments as in cases of contempt.

SEC. 255. The court may, from time to time, make and
enforce proper orders respecting the property, sales, and the
confirmation thereof, and the application and payment of the

. monies collected.

SEC. 256. It may order the sheriff to repossess himself,
for the purpose of selling it, of any of the attached property
which may have passed out of his hands, without having been
sold or converted into money; and the Sheriff shall, under such

order, have the same power to take the property as upon an
order of attachment.

SEC. 257. Any person may, before the sale of any
attached property, or before the payment to the plaintifff of the

proceeds thereof, or of any attached debt, present his complaint
verified by oath, to, the court, disputing the validity of the
attachment, or stating a claim to the property or an interest
in, or lien on it under any other attachment, or otherwise, and
setting forth the facts upon which such claim is founded, and
his claim shall be investigated. A non-resident claimant shall,
in such cases give security for costs. The court may hear the
proof, or may order a reference to a commissioner, or may empanel a jury to inquire into the facts. If it is found that the
claimant has a title to, a lien on, or any interest in such property,

the court shall make such order as may be necessary to protect

_ his rights. The costs of this proceeding shall be paid by either
party, at the discretion of the court. Where several attachments are executed on the same property, the court, on the
motion of any one of the attaching plaintifffs, may order 2). reference to a commissioner, to acertaiu and report the amounts
and priorities of the several attachments.

SEC. 258. The defendant may, at any time before judgment, after reasonable notice to the plaintifff, move the court
for additional security on the part of the plaintifff, and if on
such motion, the court is satisfied that the surety in the plaintifff's bond has removed from this State, or is not sufficient for the
amount thereof, it may vacate the order of attachment, and
direct restitution "of any property taken under it, unless in a

reasonable time, to be fixed by the court, sufficient security is
given by the plaintifff.

ARTICLE II .

._1ttm,~Imzents in Certain, .4r,'ti0ns.

s1-:c'rxox— l s1:c'r1o.\'—
2.59. Plaintin‘ may obtain attachment be- 262.’ Bond to he c,\(_-cutgd 1,¢{.),-9 “um-1.fore his debt is clue. l ment is issued260. Ma)’ be granted 1))’ Circuit or Probate ‘ 263. Provisions of first article. after SecJuclgc. , l tion 920. to apply to attachments
261. The order must specify the amount under this article.
for which it is allowed. I

SEC. 259. In an action brought by a creditor against his
debtor, the plaintifff may, before his claim is due, have an attachment against the property of the debtor, where,

Fz'rst.—Hc has sold, conveyed, or otherwise disposed of his
property or suffered or permitted it to be sold, with the fraudulent intent to cheat or defraud his creditors, or to hinder or
delay them in the collection of their debts; or,

Second.—Is about to make such fraudulent sale, conveyance,
or disposition of his property, with such intent; or,

TIzird.—Is about to remove his propert.y, or a material part
thereof out of this State, with the intent, or to the effect of
cheating or defrauding his creditors, or of hindering or delaying
them in the collection of their debts.

SEC. 260. The attachment authorized by the last section
may be granted by the court in which the action is brought
or by the Judge thereof or any Judge of the Supreme Court
or Circuit Judge, in vacation, or by the Judge of the Probate
Court, where the complaint, verified by the oath of the plaintifffr
shows any of the grounds for attachment enumerated in that
section, and the nature and amount of the plaintifff ’s claim and
when the same will become due. _

SEC. 261. The order of the court or judge granting the
attachment shall specify the amount for which it is allowed,
not exceeding a sum sufficient to satisfy the plaintifff ’s claim,
and the probable costs of the action.

SEC. 262. The order of attachment as granted by the
court or judge, shall not be issued by the clerk, until there has
been executed in his office such bond on the part of the plaintitt
as is directed in Section 219.

SEC. 263. The provisions in the first article of this Chapter, subsequent to Section 220, shall, so far as they are applicable, regulate the attachments authorized by this article.


ARTICLE III .

./1tta,ch.ments dgainst Speoifletl PropertySURDIVISON I.

Specific .4ttachm;entsSECTION-— SECTION264. In cases oflien, joint ownership, or a 268. Attachment not to be issued until the
future interest. an attachment may bond required is given.
be obtained to prevent Sale °" "9’ 2'79. The order must describe the property.
“‘°‘"“ °" 1“'°1"~““3'- ~ and direct the disposition of it.

965. In an action to cancel a contract {or

(mud. an attachment may be oh‘ 270. Sheriff must dispose of the property

“mom as directed by the orden. if no direc266. Attachments granted by any Judge “°°5’ hep it ‘ugly’
of the Supreme Court or Circuit or 211. Attachments in this subdivision to be

Probate Judge, upon terms to be pre- discharged upon such bond and sescribed in the order. curity being given as the court may
28?. In all such cases. piaiutiir to give se- l"°s°m’°'

curity for the damages sustained by
the defendant.

SEC. 264. In an action to enforce a mortgage of, or l_ien
upon, personal property, or for the recovery, partition, or sale
of such property, or by a plaintifff having a future estate or
interest therein, for the security of his rights, where it satisfactorily appears by the complaint, veriiied on oath, or by
affidavits or the proofs in the cause, that the plaintifff has a just
claim, and that the property is about to be sold, concealed, or
removed from the State, or where the plaintifff states on oath
that he has reasonable cause to believe, and does believe, that,
unless prevented by the court, the property will be sold, concealed, or removed from the State, an attachment may be

granted against the property.
SEC. 265. In an action by a vendor of property fraudulently purchased, to vacate the contract, and have a restoration

of the property or compensation therefore, where the complaint .

shows such fraudulent purchase of property and the amount of
the plaintifff's claim, and is verified by his oath, an attachment
against the property may be granted.

SEC. 266. The attachments in the cases mentioned in
the last two sections, may be granted by the court in which the
action is brought, or by the judge thereof, or any Judge of the
Supreme Court or Circuit Court, or the Judge of the Prpbate
Court, upon such terms and conditions as to security, on the
part of the plaintifff, for the damages which may be occasioned
by them, and with such directions as to the disposition to be
made of the attached property, as may be just and proper under
the circumstances of each case. _

SEC. 267. In every case the plaintifff shall be required to
give security for the damages to the defendant, in an adequate
sum, to be specified in the order granting the attachment, and
where it may be proper, the court or judge may direct that the
defendant or person in possession of the attached property
shall be permitted to retain it upon giving bond with security,
and for such sum as the court or judge may prescribe.

SEC. 268. No order of attachment shall be issued by the
clerk until the bond, on the part of the plaintifff, required by
order of the court or judge is executed in his office, by one or
more sutiicient sureties of the plaintifff.

SEC. 269. The order of attachment shall describe the
specific property against which it is issued, and shall have
indorsed upon it the direction of the court or judge, as to the
disposition to be made of the attached property. - It shall be
directed, executed and returned as other orders of attachment.

SEC. 270. ‘The sheriff shall make such disposition of the
attached property as may be directed by the court or judge, and
when there is no direction upon the subject, he shall safely
keep the property subject to the order of the court.

SEC. 271. The court may, in any of the cases mentioned

' in Sections 264 and 265, direct the terms and conditions of the
bond to be executed by the defendant with security, in order
to obtain a discharge of the attachment.

CHAPTER
SL'I}I)l\'lSl().\' ll.

{I0/z.e7'rzZ 1’roz°ision.s-.

{<1-It”l'IU.\'—’ 5l‘Z(‘TlU.V—
27".‘. Sherifl‘ may |vur.~i.c specitiv property y 214. Pert'or1n:mre of bowl in :1tl:u'hment
attached into another('ount,_\' in twen- can-s summuril_\‘ enforced.
t_\'-four ll0Hl'.~ alter removal. . 2'75. l’ro\'i.~ions of Article 1. ofthis (‘hap‘.".i}. The court may examine del'cnd:mt, ter, apply to .~'p1-ville att:u-lnncnt,

and require him to disclose where
any property for which an attachment is Itsuecl has been concealed or ‘
removed.

SEC. 272. \Vhere, after an order of attachment against
specific property has been placed in the hands of the sherifi',
such property is removed from the county, the sherifl may
pursue and attach it in another county, within twenty-four
hours after such removal.

SEC. 273. \Vhere it appears, by return of the Sheriff,
or by the affidavit of the pl-aintifi', that any specific property
against ‘which an order of attachment is issued, has been concealed or removed by the defendant, the court may require
him to attend, and be examined on oath, respecting such matter, and may enforce its orders in this respect, as in cases of
contempt.

SEC. 274. Performance of bonds to obtain discharge of
specific attachments; or for the forthcoming of property specifically attached, may, in all cases, be summarily enforced by
rules and proceedings as in cases of Contempt.

SEC. 275. The provisions of the first article of this Chapter, not inconsistent with the foregoing Sections of this Article, may be applied, so far as shall be proper, to regulate
the proceedings in cases of attachments against specitic praiperty.
TITLE
.\li'l'lL'l'.l£ IV.

I)i.s*c/mrg‘c cmrl l.’vi/mtrtte/1z»cIzf 0/‘ . //1‘/cc/z mo/22!.

>‘£CTiO.\— sr:c1‘to\'——
276. Att.;ich|ncnt~: su<t:tineul or ali.~clinl'gcd
when judgment is l't'ntlCl’0Ii. unless
obtained after commencement of ac:2t-B. Urvlcri Ill.~'(‘ll:ll';.:'iiI;.' on-~n~tninin:.: uttachmcnts made at or after j1i«l;.rment dual, and allbjcct to appeal,

lion. 231. Reinstatement oi’ attnclnnent only

.... it‘ judgment is for dcfemiunt. at-  binding mlmdgnwm.

m""mcm is diSdm"gm" ‘ 285. Motion to discharge for i1'l'cgnl2u'it\'
“judgment rorpmimm’Mmchmcm in obtaining attachment mnv hi.-ustained, unh-as «zontroverted by all , made in vacation" ’ ‘
mimit. or a motion is made to (lia- .
cliarge. |
179. \Vhen sustained. the attached pro- 1
petty applied to sati~'t'_.' the jndg- ~
ment. 
2130 Defendant ma)‘. by anidavit, deny I
.
I

i

I
I
{lo

286. Entry may be made of intention to
apply for reinstatement. its en‘ect.

‘.287. Reinstatement may he made by
Judge of Supreme Court. Its ctfoc

288. Cases in which attachments in inferior courts, may be removed to Circuit courts.

the grounds of attachment. This at‘tidavit to he filed in such time after
levy of attachment. as is given for
pleading after service of summons.
2&1. Either party may take proof by

‘.289. Cases in which attaclunents in different ( ircnit (Jourts may he removed

. . . . _ tuone court.
deposition. Lourtiuayorcier witness .

l

t,., 1,‘. (.x,,,,,;,,(.,] 0,-,,n_‘-_ E 290. How order of removal made. l‘iCl'l\'.~ in
999.. Defendant. on notice, may move dis— transmit papers on l‘('lllO\'tll.

charge of attachment.

 

SEC. 276. An attachment obtained at the commencement of an action, shall be sustained or discharged at the time
that judgment is rendered in the action, unless for sufficient
cause, the court extends the time of deciding upon it. An attachment obtained after the commencement of an action, shall not
be sustained until the defendant has had the time for controverting it provided in this chapter.

SEC. 277. If judgment is rendered in favor of the defendant, the attachment shall be discharged.

SEC. 278. If judgment is rendered in favor of the plaintifff. and no affidavit or answer veriiied by oath by the defendant filed, denying the statements of the affidavit upon which
the attachment was issued, or motion made to discharge it, the
court shall sustain the attachment.

SEC. 279. Upon an attachment being sustained, the
property attached, or its proceeds, or the securities taken upon
the attachment, shall, by appropriate orders, be applied in satisfaction of the judgment.

SEC. 280. The defendant may file his affidavit denying
all or any of the material statements of the atiidavit upon which
the attachment is issued; and thereupon, the attachment shall
be considered as controverted, and the affidavits of the plaintifff and defendant shall be regarded as the pleadings in the attachment, and have no other effect. Where the attachment.
was obtained at the commencement of an action, the defendant may file his a{iida‘vit at such time‘ after the levy of the attachment as is given by this Code for filing his defense, after
the service of the summons, which period may be extended by
the court for sufhcient cause.

SEC. 281. Either party may take proof by deposition,
to be read on the trial of the attachment, or by permission of
the court, the witnesses may be orally examined in court.

SEC. 282. At any time before the attachment is sustained, the defendant, upon reasonable notice to the plaintifff,
or his attorney, may move the court to discharge the attachment, the hearing of which may be postponed by the court,
upon sufficient cause, from time to time; and, upon the hearing, if the court is of opinion that the attachment was obtained
Without sufiicient cause, or that the grounds of attachment
being controverted are not sustained, the attachment shall be
discharged.

SEC. 283. The orders for a discharge of an attachment,
made at or after the rendition of judgment in the action, shall
be final, and not subject to be reinstated as provided in this Article, but shall be subject of appeal where the amount in
in controversy is such as to authorize an" appeal. The order
sustaining the attachment shall also, in like manner, on the
rendition of judgment in the action, be subject to appeal.

SEC. 284. The reinstatements of attachments as provided in this Article, shall only be binding on the inferior court
until judgment; and when judgment is rendered in the action, the inferior court shall make a disposition of the motion
to discharge, which shall, in like manner, be iinal.

SEC. 285. The defendant, on reasonable notice to the
plaintifff, may, at any time before the term next after the levy
of the attachment, move the judge of the court in vacation to
discharge the attachment, on the grounds of its having been
issued contrary to the provisions of Article first of this Chapter; and the judge, on an inspection of the papers in the action, or of the authenticated copies of them, shall have the
same power of discharging the attachment by his written
order, filed by the clerk, as he would have in court, and
shall have like power to permit amendments by the plaintifff.

SEC. 286. Where the plaintifff desires a reinstatement of
the attachment, he may have an entry made upon the record
of leave to apply therefore within reasonable time—not exceeding twenty days. And, in such case, the order of discharge
shall be made to take effect at the end of the period so limited,
unless the attachment is reinstated in the meantime.

SEC. 287. A judge of the Supreme Court in any case in
which the plaintifff has secured the right to apply therefore, in
the manner provided in the last Section, may, upon an inspection of copies of the record, and of the depositions and a{iidavits read upon the motion to discharge, reinstate the attachment; and, if the order of reinstatement shall be filed in the
clerk's office of the court in which the action is pending, within
the time limited as provided in the last Section, the execution
of the order of attachment shall proceed; otherwise, it shall
stand discharged, and restitution shall be made of any property
taken under it. '

SEC. 288. That in all actions in which attachments
may be pending in the Circuit Court, held in any county,
and in the inferior courts of said county, and which have
been levied upon the same property, in whole or in part, it
shall be the duty of the judges of said Circuit Court, or of
said inferior court, upon the motion of either party in said
action or actions, to make an order for the removal of the
actions pending in the said inferior court to said Circuit

Court, where they shall be tried, as if originally brought in
said Circuit Court.

SEC. 289. In all actions which may be brought in the
Circuit Court of this State, and in which attachments may
be pending, and which may be levied upon the same property, in whole or in part, the judges of said court where
said actions are pending, shall have power to make an order
for the removal of said actions, or some of them, by change
of venue, so as to have them all upon the same docket and
under the control of the same court. Such order of removal
shall only be made upon petition filed, and in such cases as
the judge shall be satisfied that such removal is necessary
for the proper distribution of the attached property, and the
adjustment of the rights of the parties to said actions; and
in making said order of removal, due regard shall be had
to the convenience of the parties.

SEC. 290. Said order of removal may be made in open
court, or by the judge of said courts in vacation; but in
either case notice of the application shall be given to the
opposite party, and affidavit may be read for and against such
application.

SEC. 291. Where said order of removal is made, it shall
be the duty of the Clerk of said Circuit Court, and of the judges
of said inferior courts, immediately to remove the papers in
said action, as directed by said order, and to file an authentic
copy of the orders which have been made in said case or cases.
If the order of removal is to another county, the clerk shall have
the same fees now allowed for like services in other cases of
change of venue, to be paid in advance by the applicant for the
removal,'and to be taxed as costs, and finally paid out of the
attached funds, or by such of the parties as the court shall
order.

CHAPTER IV.

Injmzction.
1g‘f[(_‘1_1.;._ | AR'I‘iCI.t1—
1. When and how an injuetion may be ‘.3. Dissolution and reinstatexnent of Inobtained. l j1lllt'ti0I1ARTICLE I .

When. and How an. Injunction may be Obtaz'n.erlstories2'}2. Injunctions to stay proceedings. commenced before Code, not affected by
Code.

2'13. Injunction is a command to refrain
from an act. It may be final or prorisional.

itli. Causes for which an injunction may
be granted.

295. Injunction may be granted by Judge
oi’ Supreme Court, Circuit or Probate
Judge.

296. Court may authorize its Clerk to grant

injunctions.

Injunctions before judgment subject

to the order of Court.

Court or judge may require notice to

be given the opposite party of the application for an injunction.

. Not to be granted without notice,
where the defendant has answered.

. Injunctions to stay business of corporations, to restrain an erection or
nuisance, or the issue of small notes’
can only be granted on notice.

29?.

%.

:"§

301. Where notice is given, each party
may read afiidarits.

80%. Orders of injunction to s pee i i‘ y
amount of bond, and its terms. What
terms are required in certain injunctious.

SECTION303. No injunction to be issued without
bond is executed. Terms of injunction bond where ajudgrnemt is stayed.

301. Clerk to take the bond.

805. By whom and how an injunction shall
be issued and served, and to whom
addressed.

300. Notice of awplication equivalent to
service.

307. Injunction binds from the time party
is informed of it.

308. No injunct.on of judgment of justices ot‘ the peace for less than twenty
dollars.

309. Injunction to stay proceedings on a
judgment only granted in the court
that renders it, nor where there has
been a previous injunction.

310. Judge cannot grant an injunction
when refused by the Court, nor can
county judge, when refused by circuit judge.

311. Disobedience of injunction punished
as contempt by court or judge in vacation. Proceedings of contempt.

312. Anidavits read on an application to be
filed with the papers.

313. Party enjoined. may more for additional security.

314. Injunction bond to be given. Liens

created by levy not discharged by
injunction.

SEC. 292. Injunctions to stay proceedings in actions
or suits commenced before this Code takes effect, are not

affected by its provisions, but are to be granted, to proceed in
all respects and be determined as if it had not been adopted.

SEC. 293. The injunction provided by this Code is a
command to refrain from a particular act. It may be the final
judgment in an action, or may be allowed as provisional
remedy; and where so allowed, it shall be by order. The writ
of injunction is abolished.

SEC. 294. “There it appears by the complaint that the
plaintifff is entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief, or

any part thereof, consists in restraining the commission or continuance of some act which could produce great or irreparable

injury to the plaintifff, or where during the litigation, it appears
that the defendant is doing, or threatens, or is about to do, or is
procuring or suffering to be done, some act, in violation of the
plaintifff’s rights, respecting the subject of the action and tending to render the judgment ineffectual, a temporary injunctionmay be granted to restrain such act. It may also be granted
in any case where it is specially authorized by statute.

SEC. 295. The injunction may be granted at the commencement of the action, or at any time before judgment, by
the court, or by the judge thereof, or any Judge of the Supreme
Court or Circuit Judge, or by the Probate Judge of the county,
where it appears by the complaint that the plaintifff is entitled
thereto. And, during a litigation, it may be granted by the
court, or by the judge thereof, or any Judge of the Supreme
Court, or Circuit Judge, where it satisfactorily appears by attidavits that sufiicient grounds exist therefore.

SEC. 296. The Judge of the Circuit Court for any county
may, if he deem it right and proper, by an order duly entered
on the order book of said court, authorize the clerk of said
court to grant injunctions and restraining orders, in the same

manner and under like restrictions that the Probate Judges of

counties may grant injunctions and restraining orders; but no
such authority shall be conferred on any deputy of such clerk.

SEC. 297. All injunctions granted before final judgment.
shall be subject to the further order of the court.

SEC. 298. The court or judge, to whom an application
for an injunction is made, may direct a reasonable notice to be

given to the party against whom the injunction is asked, to
attend and show cause against it at 'a specified time and place,
and may, in the meantime, restrain such party.

SEC. 299. An injunction shall not be granted against a
defendant who has answered, unless he has had notice of the
application therefore.

SEC. 300. An injunction to stop the general and ordinary business of a corporation, or the operations of a turnpike,
railroad, or canal company, or of a municipal corporation, or

of the trustees ot' a town, or any building, erection, or other
work, or to restrain a nuisance, or the unlawful issue or circulation of small notes or bills, can only be granted by the court,
or by the judge thereof, or any Circuit Judge, upon reasonable
notice of the time and place of the application therefore to the
party enjoined.

SEC. 301. On the hearing of an application for an injunction of which notice has been given, each party may read affidavits.

SEC. 302. In every case, the court or judge granting an
injunction shall specify in the order therefore an amount, for
which the party obtaining it shall give security in a bond to
the party enjoined, before the injunction shall become effectual;
which amount shall be sutiieient to cover all the probable
damages and costs that may be occasioned by the injunction.
The court or judge may prescribe the effect of the bond, so as
to secure to the party enjoined the damages to which he may
become entitled, if it is finally decided that the injunction ought
not to have been granted. Where the injunction is to stay
proceedings upon a judgment or final order for money, the
amount for which security is required shall be sufficient to
cover, with other damages, the sum enjoined, with five years’
interest thereon. When the injunction is to stay proceedings
upon a judgment for property, the amount specified in the
order shall be sutiieient to cover also the rent, hire, or value
of the use thereof for two years ; and in case of personal property, its value likewise. t

SEC. 303. The order of injunction shall not be issued
by the clerk, until the bond mentioned in the last section has
been executed in his oftice by one or more suilicient sureties of
the party obtaining the injunction. Where the injunction is
to stay proceedings upon a judgment or final order, the bond
shall be to the effect that the party obtaining the injunction
will satisfy the judgment or order, or so much of it as is
enjoined, to the extent to which the injunction may be dissolved;
and that he will also satisfy any modified judgment or order
that may be rendered or made in lieu of it, or so much of it as
exceeds the amount left uninjoined. In other cases, unless otherwise directed by the court or judge, the bbnd shall be to the
effect that the party giving it will pay to the party enjoined
such damages as he may sustain, if it is finally decided that
the injunction ought not to have been granted.

SEC. 304. Sureties in injunction bonds shall be taken
by the clerk, under the same responsibilities as in other cases
of sureties taken by him.

SEC. 305. The order of injunction shall be addressed to
the party enjoined, shall state the injunction, and shall be dated
and signed‘ by the clerk. Where it is issued at the commencement of the action, it shall be indorsed upon the summons, and
the copy thereof delivered to the sheriff. Where it is issued
during the litigation, it shall be delivered to him with as many
copies thereof as there are parties enjoined. The Sheriff shall
forthwith serve it by delivering a copy to each party enjoined,
and make return thereof on the order.

SEC. 306. Where notice of the application for an
injunction has been given to the party enjoined, it shall not be
necessary to serve the order upon him; he is bound by the
injunction as soon as the bond required of the adverse party is
executed. _

SEC. 307. An injunction binds the party from the time
he is informed thereof.

SEC. 308. No injunction shall be granted to stay proceedings upon a judgment of a justice of the peace, or of a
probate court, where the value of the matter in dispute does
not exceed twenty dollars.

SEC. 309. An injunction to stay proceedings on a judgment, or final order of a court, shall not be granted in an actiom

brought by the party seeking the injunction in any othercourt than that in which the judgment or order was rendered
or made. Nor shall such injunction be granted by any officer

except a Judge of the Supreme Court, unless the party apply»
ing therefore makes afiidayit that no injunction has been pre-viously granted to stay the proceedings on such judgment ororder.

SEC. 310. N o injunction shall be granted by a circuit or
probate judge after a motion therefore has been overruled by
the court. Nor shall any be granted by a judge of a probate
court, where it has been refused by the judge of the court in
which the action is brought or by any circuit Judge. A judge

refusing an application for an injunction, shall, if requested by
the defendant, give him a certificate thereof.

SEC. 311. Disobedience of an injunction may be punished by the court, or by the judge thereof, or any circuit judge
in vacation, as a contempt. An attachment may be issued by
the court or judge, upon the production of evidence by aiiidavit
of the breach of the injunction, against the party committing the
same. And unless he purges the contempt, if in vacation, the
judge may commit him to jail until the sitting of the court, or
take a bond with security for his appearance to answer for the
contempt at the next term of the court, and in the meantime
to obey the injunction.

SEC. 312. The affidavits read upon an application for an
injunction shall be filed with the papers of the case.

SEC. 313. A party enjoined may, at any time before
judgment, upon reasonable notice to the party who has obtained
the injunction, move the court for additional security on behalf
of such party, and if it appears on such notice that the surety
in the injunction bond has removed from this State, or is insufficient, the court may vacate the order of injunction, unless in a
reasonable time sufficient security is given.

SEC. 314. That in case of injunction to stay proceedings

upon a judgment or final order, the oiiicer granting the injunction

may authorize a bond to be executed to the effect that the
party obtaining the injunction will pay to the party_enjoined
such damages as he may sustain, if it is finally decided that the
injunction ought not to have been granted. Provided, however,
‘If, at the time such injuctio11 is granted and bond executed, any
execution or attachment has been levied upon the property of
the party obtaining the ir:junction,_said levy shall not be discharged by reason of said injunction, but shall remain in full
force until the iinal decision as to the injunction, unless the
party obtaining the injunction shall give bond in the form now

prescribed by law.

ARTICLE
Dissolution and Jhinstatenzent of Injzmction.

SI-:C'rIox— SECTION314}:,’. Party enjoined inay, upon notice, ' 318. Judge to decide the motion on hear 

move the court to modify or dissolve iug_
fill inlllnctioll Obmilletl “'i”‘0\1t '10- I 319. only one motion on the whole C1150
tic“ ' allowed.
315. Judge in vacation. or any circuit 9 320 On dissolution of injunction in whole
judge may dissolve or modil'_v an iu- l or in part, damages to be assessed.
JIIIICUOII gftllltctl by probate judge. J How much on judgment for money

316 After answer filed the part\' en- l “W1 “OW ‘““"h 0“ I”°°1’e"‘."I . L , _

xnodifv an injunction, on all the injunction is dissolved. to a1»nl.\'1‘m'

papers and evldence filed. I 3 1'0iU~‘t‘lt°m0"t32%. Judge of Supreme Court may rein.

817. Motion may be postpcmevl for cause. l . . .
- state an iiuunction.

SEC. 314. The party enjoined may, at any time upon
reasonable notice to the plaintiffl', move the court, upon the
plaintifff's complaint and afiida‘vits alone, to dissolve or modify
an injunction of the application for which no notice was

given.
SEC. 315. A motion to dissolve or modify an injunction

granted by a probate judge, may at any time, upon reasonable
notice to the plaintifff, be made before the judge of the court or
any judge of the Supreme Court, or Circuit Judge, upon the
plaintifff‘ ’s complaint and affidavits alone. The order of the

judge overruling the same, or dissolving or modifying the

injunction, with the notice, shall be returned to the office of

the clerk of the court. They shall be noted upon the record
and the order obeyed, as if made by the court.

SEC. 316. After answer filed by the party enjoined, he
may give notice to the plaintifffof a motion to be made to the
court in not less than ten days thereafter upon the whole case,
to dissolve or modify the injunction. Upon such motion, each
party may read depositions and other competent evidence in
writing. The court shall be bound to take the answer as true.

SEC. 317. The motion upon the whole case to dissolve
or modify the injunction‘, may be postponed, on the application
of either party, to a subsequent day, or to the next term, where
the court is satisfied that, under the circumstances of the case,
the delay is proper. \Vhen delay is asked, in order to obtain
the testimony of a witness, it must appear by affidavit what
facts the witness is expected to prove, that the atiiant believes
his testimony will be true, and that it could not have been
obtained by due diligence.

SEC. 318. After hearing the motion, the court or judge
shall overrule the same, or dissolve or modify the injunction,
according to the right of the case.

SEC. 319. Only one motion to dissolve or modify an
injunction upon the whole case shall be allowed.

SEC. 320. Upon the dissolution, in whole or in part, of
an injunction to stay proceedings upon a judgment or final
order, the damages shall be assessed by the Court, which may
hear the evidence and decide in a summary way, or may, at its
discretion, cause a jury to be empaneled, to find the damages.
Where money is enjoined, the damages may be any rate per
cent. on the amount released by the dissolution, which in the
discretion of the court, may be proper not exceeding ten per
cent. And, Where the delivery of property has been delayed
by the injunction, the value of the use, hire, or rent thereof
shall be assessed. Judgment shall be rendered against the
party who obtained the injunction for the damages assessed;
and the assessment shall be conclusive against the surety of
such party.

SEC. 321. Where the plaintifff desires to apply for reinstatement of an injunction dissolved or modified on motion,
the court or judge shall make the order of dissolution or modiiication, to take effect in a reasonable time thereafter, not
exceeding twenty days, and shall express in the order that the
plaintifff has leave to apply in the meantime for a reinstatement
of the injunction.

SEC. 322. A Judge of the Supreme Court, in any case
in which the plaintifff has secured the right to apply therefore
as provided in the last section, may, upon an inspection of
copies of the record, and of the depositions and evidence read
upon the motion to dissolve or modify the injunction, reinstate
the same in whole or in part. And, if the order of reinstatement is filed in the clerk's office in the time limited, as provided
in the last section, the injunction, as reinstated, shall be obeyed;
otherwise the order of dissolution or modification shall take
effect.

CHAPTER V.

Receiver.

sEc'noN— ' monon823. Cases in which the courtniay appoint 32¢ Receiverto be Sworn and give bond

:1. receiver. V ,
3'24. Maybe appointed to take charge of and semmty‘
‘no;-tgaged property. 327. POWGPS Of-3 receiver.

323. No person interested or attorney in
the action to be appointed.

SEC. 323. In an action by a vendor to vacate a fraudu_
lent purchase of property, or by a creditor to subject any
property or fund to his claim, or between partners or others
jointly owning or interested in any property or fund, on the

application of plaintifff or of any party whose right to or interest
in the property or fund or the proceeds thereof, is probable, and
where it is shown that the property or fund is in danger of being
lost, removed, or ‘materially injured, the court may appoint a
receiver to take charge thereof during the pendency of the
action, and may order and coerce the delivery of it to him.

SEC. 324. In action by a mortgagee for the foreclosure
of his mortgage, and the sale of the mortgaged property, a
receiver may, in like manner, be appointed, where it appears
that the mortgaged property is in danger of being lost, removed,
or materially injured, or that the condition’ of the mortgage has
not been performed, and that the property is probably insufficient to discharge the mortgaged debt.

SEC. 325. No party or attorney, or person interested in
an action, shall be appointed receiver therein.

SEC. 326. Before entering upon his duties, the receiver
must be sworn to perform them faithfully, and, with one or
more sureties approved by the court, execute a bond to such
person and in such sum as the court shall direct, to the effect
that he will faithfully discharge the duties of receiver in the
action, and obey the orders of the court therein.

SEC. 327. The receiver has, under the control of the
court, power to bring and defend actions, to take and keep
possession of the property, to receive rents, collect debts, and
generally do . such acts respecting the property as the court may
authorize.

CHAPTER VI.

Deposit in Court-.

ssc"rJo.\'— SECTION3'2S. Money or property capableofdelivery, 331. Money deposited in court. may be
admitted to be held for another, or to contlded to sheriff on his official relne due to another, may he ordered to 5l*0Y15illi1il}'he d€‘l)05it0<1 ill 00"l‘t. 01‘ ¢101i"01'9<1 t0  Court may order money deposited to
the Person entitled to it. be placed in a bank in the same or an

3s_»9_ Court may em-0,.ce its Order for de_ adjoining county, subject to the check
posit 0,. de”,,er_,,_ ofthe court.

330, _g1,c,.m- may be ordered to ,.ec(.i,.c 333. Money deposited can be loaned by

property deposited in court, and al- consent °f an interested‘
lowed expenses of keeping it.

SEC. 328. W11e1‘e it is admitted, by the pleading or
examination of a party, that he has in his possession, or under
his control, any money, or other thing capable of delivery,
Which, being the subject of the litigation, is held by him as
trustee for another party, or which belongs or is due to another
party, the court may order the same to be deposited in court,
or delivered to such party, with or without security, subject to
the further direction of the court.

SEC. 329. Whenever, in the exercise of ‘its authority,
a courthas ordered the deposit or delivery of money or other
thing, and the order is disobeyed, the court, besides punishing
the disobedience, may make an order requiring the sheriff to
take the money or thing, and deposit or deliver itin conformity
with its directions.

SEC. 330. The court may direct the sheriff to keep safely
-any property delivered pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, and may allow him the necessary expenses attending the
same, to be paid by such party as the court shall direct, and
taxed in the costs of the action.

SEC. 331. It may confide to the sheriff money deposited
or paid into court, which shall be kept by him under the same

requirements and responsibilities of himselt'and his sureties as
are provided by this Code in respect to money deposited in lieu
of bail.

SEC. 332. A-court sitting in a county in which, or inany county adjoining which, there is a. bank, or a branch of a
bank created by thelaws of this State or the United States,
transacting regular banking business, may order money paid
into court to be deposited in such bank or branch to the credit
of the court, in the action or proceeding in which the money
was paid. Money so deposited, shall be paid only upon the
check of the clerk of court, annexed to its certified order for
the payment, and in favor of the person to whom the order
directs the payment to be made.

SEC. 333. Money deposited or paid into the court in
any action, shall not be loaned out by the court, unless with
the consent of all the parties having an interest in or making

claim to the same.

TITLE IX.

'l'l{IAI. AND JL7DGMEI\"l'.

cIl.\r'rl:x- CHAPTERI. Issue. 3. Judgment.
;]‘2. Trial. I 4. Revival‘ ofdudgment.

CHAPTER I.

Issue.

sr.c'r1o.\'— 3E»"1‘|0-\'E334. [Definition of an issue. Mr two kinds 335. Ht-W =mi.~suc of fact arises.
-01‘ law and of fact.

SEC. 334. Issue arise on the pleadings, where a fact, or
conclusion of law, is maintained by one party, and contradicted
by the other. They are of two kinds:

F¢'rst.—Of law.

Second.—Of fact.

SEC. 335. An issue of fact arises,

First.—Upon a niaterialjfallcgatiorx in the complaint, denied

by the answer.

Se-cond.—Upon a set-off or counterclaim presented in the

answer, and denied by the reply.
Third.-Upon material new matter in the answer or reply which
shall be considered as controverted by the opposite party without further pleading.

CHAPTER II.

Trial,
a3rxcLx- ‘ AR'l‘ICLB-1. Trial in general. 5. New trial.
2. Trial by jury. 6. General provisions.
3. Trial by the court. '3’. Time of trial.
4. Exceptions. I

ARTICLE 1. °

Trial in General.

sl:c'no.\'- sEc'r1o.\'-—
3$6. Trial, the judicial examination of the 3'19. Each action to be tried in the order it
_ issues. stands on the docket.
337- 1"5|l¢5 0513*’ t-"i0¢1b." the 00lll‘t- C91“ 340. Postponement ot trial must he on
min 351105 07 T30‘ “led by 3 .l|11')'- anldavit. Causes of postponement.

unless dispensed with.
$38. All other issues of fact tried by the
court.

SEC. 336. A trial is a judicial examination of the issues,
whether of law or of fact, in an action.

SEC. 337. Issues of law must be tried by the court.
Issues of fact, arising in actions by proceedings at law for the
recovery of money, or of specific, real or personal property,
shall be tried by a jury, unless a jury trial is waived.

SEC. 338. All other issues of fact, whether arising in
proceedings at law, or equitable proceedings, shall be tried by
the court, subject to its power to order any issue or issues to be
tried by jury. '

SEC. 839. The trial in each action shall be in the order
in which it stands upon the docket.

SEC. 340. A motion to postpone a trial on account of
the absence of evidence, shall, if required by the opposite party,
be made only upon affidavit showing the materiality of the
evidence expected to be obtained, and that due diligence has
been used to obtain it; and, if it is for an absent witness, the affidavit must show what facts the atiiant believes the witness will
prove and not merely the effect of such facts in evidence, and
that the atiiant himself believes them to be true. If, thereupon,
the adverse party will consent that, on the trial,‘ they shall be
taken as true, the trial shall not be postponed for that cause.

ARTICLE II.

Trial by Jury.

8l'BDlV‘lSl0N— l Sl'BDIV’ISlO.\'—
1. Formation of the jury. 3. Verdict.
2. Conduct of the trial. l

SUBDIVISION I.

Formation of the Jury.

8EC‘l'I0r~'- SECTION311. Mode of summoningjury notehanged, 3I6.Challenge for cause, how made and
342. Number of pctit jurors. Oath to decided.
jurors. 347. Peremptory challenge, each party
343. At all times to be twenty-four jurors. to have three. Either party lnay re314. Ifjury cannotbeobtained, bystanders quire panel, how made and struck.
to be summoned. 348. (hallenge for cause to be decided
345. Challenge to the array to be decided before drawing.

by the court.

SEC. 341. The general mode of summoning the jury is
not changed by this Code.

SEC. 342. A jury of tWenty—four men, to be known as
the petit jurors, to be selected and summoned in such manner
:1sisn0\v or may hereafter be provided bylaw, shall be the
regular jurors for the trial of all jury -Iases, both civil and
criminal. Their names shall be entered on the order book,
and they shall be sworn in substance as follows: "You, and
each of you, do solemnly swear (or adirm,) that you will well
and truly try each and all of the issues, inquisitions and other
matters submitted to you respectively as jurors at the present
term of this court, and a true verdict render according to
law and evidence, unless discharged by the court or withdrawn

by the parties.”

SEC. 343. If for any cause any of said jurors shall at
any time be released from serving for the balance of the term,\
others shall be summoned and sworn, so that there shall be at
all times twenty-four jurors. Said oath shall be binding upon
each juror so sworn in all civil cases upon which he may act as
juror during said term.

SEC. 344. If a jury for the trial of any case cannot be
obtained out of said petit jurors, by-standers shall be summoned
as the court may direct, to complete such jur , and the ohth
mentioned in the preceding section adapted to that particular
case, shall be administered to said by-standers, and the record
shall contain the names of said by-standers, together with the
statement that they were selected and sworn according to law.

SEC. 345. A challenge to the array shall be decided by
the court.

SEC. 346. A challenge for cause shall be decided by the
court, and, in order to determine the same, the particular juror
or jurors challenged may be sworn, or, at the instance of either
party, all of the jurors may be sworn to make true and perfect
answers to such questions as may be demanded of them, touching their qualifications as jurors. The court may allow other
testimony in regard to the qualifications of any juror.

SEC. 347. Each party shall have three peremptory

IL

challenges which may be made orally—but if either party shall
desire a panel, the court shall cause the names of twenty-four
competent jurors, written upon separate slips of paper, to be

‘placed in a box to be kept for that purpose, from which the
names of eighteen shall be drawn and entered on a list in the
order in which they were drawn and numbered. Each party
shall be furnished with a copy of said list from which each may
strike the names of three jurors and return the list so struck to
the judge, who shall strike from the original list the names so
stricken from the copies, and the first twelve names remaining
on said original list, shall constitute the jury.

SEC. 348. Before the drawing of the lists above mentioned, the court shall decide all challenges for cause which are
presented, and if there are not twenty-four‘competent jurors,
by-standcrs shall be summoned as hereinbefore provided, until
the requisite number of competent jurors is obtained, from
which said list shall be drawn. Where there are several persons on the same side, the challenge of one shall be the challenge
of all under this subdivision.

P

SUBDIVISION ll.

(..'0mZzu:! of the Trial.

s1ccri'o.\'—

351. Duty of court and jury after cause isubmitted.

35?. Jury to be admonished by the (‘OH rt
of their duty when permitted to ~01)arpte.

353. If jury disagree as to hm or fact,

s1cc'rt0.\‘-- 349. Order of conducting trial:
l<‘irst.—-l’1aintit!'opens his case.

Second.---Defendant opens his dcreuse.

'l‘hird.—--The aftlrmative (‘0llllllellL'('.~
proof, followed by the proofof adverse

I
I
I
I
party. 
I
I
I
I
I

may be brought into court.
..~om.th___Th(_.n comimwl to ,.,._.,mm,g 354. ('tillS(‘.~‘ for which a jury may be (lisnvidcnce. "l““'¥‘3‘-l'.~n~u,._InSu.uc“0,,g may be a_,-k(,,l_ 37x’). If jury are tll§(‘l|!H'g('ll, wlu-n cause
to be tried.

Sixth.-—-Argument-affirmativc has
the conclusion, the opposite side the
meaning.

350. When and how It View by the jury is
lt;Ul.

356. Manner of delivering verdict. jury
may be polled.

367. Verdict to be in writing and .\lgll0Il
by foreman.

SEC. 349. When the jury has been sworn, the trial shall
proceed in the following order, unless the court, for special
reasons, otherwise ‘directs: W

Ft'rst.—The plaintifff must briefly state his claim, and the
evidence by which he expects to sustain it.

Second.—The defendant must then briefly state his defense,
and the evidence he expects to offer in support of it.

T}u'rd.—The party on whom rests the burden of proof in the
whole action must produce his evidence first; the adverse
party will then produce his evidence.

Fom-th.—The parties will then be confined to rebutting
evidence, unless the court, for good reasons in furtherance of

justice, permits them to offer evidence in their original case.

F:'j'tIa.—Wl1ci1 the evidence is concluded, either party may
request instructions to the jury on points of law, which shall be

given or refused by the court; which instructions shall be
reduced to writing if either party require it.

S£:cth.—The parties may then submit or argue the case to the

jury. In the argument, the party having the burden of proof
shall have the conclusion, and the adverse party the opening.

If there is more than one speech on either side, or if several

defendants, having separate defenses, appear by different counsel,
the court shall arrange their relative order.

SEC. 350. VVhenever, in the opinion of the court, it is
proper for the jury to have a view of real property which is the
subject of litigation, or of the place in which any material fact
occurred, it may order them to be conducted in a body under
the charge of an officer to the. place, which shall be shown to
them by some person appointed by the court for that purpose.
\Vhi1e the jury are thus absent, no person, other than the person
so appointed, shall speak to them on any subject connected
with the trial.

SEC. 351. When the case is final] y submitted to the jury,
they may decide in court, or retire for deliberation. If they
retire, they must be kept together in some convenient place,
under the charge of an officer, until they agree upon a verdict,
or are discharged by the court, subject to the discretion of the

-court to permit them to separate temporarily at night and at
their meals. The officer having them under his charge, shall
not suffer any communication to be made to them, or make
any himself, except to ask them if they have agreed upon
their verdict, unless by order of the court; and he shall not,
before their verdict is rendered, communicate to any person
the state of their deliberations, or the verdict agreed upon.

SEC. 352. If the jury are permitted to separate either
«luring the trial or after the case is submitted to them, they may
be admonished by the court that it is their duty to not converse
with or sutier themselves to be addressed by any other person,
on any subject of the trial, and during the trial; that it is their
duty not to form or express an opinion thereon, until the
cause is finally submitted to them.

SEC. 353. After the jury have retired for deliberation,
if there is a disagreement between them as to any part of
the testimony, or if they desire to be informed as to any
point of law arising in the case, they may request the officer
to conduct them into court, where the information required
shall be given in the presence of, or after notice to, the parties
or their counsel. _

SEC. 354. The jury may-be discharged by the court
‘on account of the sickness of a juror, or other accident or
~calamity requiring their discharge, or by consent of both
parties, or after they have been kept together until it satisfactorily appears that there is no probability of their agreeing.

SEC. 355. In all cases where the jury are discharged
during the trial or after the cause is submitted to them, it.
may be tried again, immediately or at a future time as the
court may direct. O

SEC. 356. “When the jury have agreed upon their,
verdict, they must be conducted into court, their names
called by the clerk, and the verdict rendered by their foreman. \Vhen the verdictis announced, either party may require
the jury to be polled, which is done by the clerk or court
asking each juror if it is his verlict. If any one answer in
the negative, the jar’ must again be sent out for further
deliberation.

SEC. 357. The verdict shall be written, signed by the
foreman, and read by the court or clerk to the jury, and
the inquiry made, whether it is their verdict. If any juror
disagrees, the jury must be sent out again; but if no disagreement is expressed, and neither party require the jury to be
polled, the verdict is complete, and the jury discharged from
the case.

SUBDIVISION III.

Verdict.

1-1cr1o,\'._ SECTIONxas, \'e1-dict, may be general or spa-{a1_ 361 . Jury must assess amount of recovery.

359. Jury have discretion as to kind of
verdict.

360.1!‘ special tlnding inconsistent with
general verdict, the former controls.

362. Value of property and damages for
detention to be assessed.

 
 

SEC. 358. The verdict of a jury is either general or
special. A general verdict is that by which they pronounce,
generally, upon all or any of the issues, either in favor of the
plaintifff or defendant. A special verdict is that by which the

jury find the facts only. It mqst present the facts as estab-'

lished by the evidence, and not the evidence to prove them;

and they must be so presented as that nothing remains to the
court but to draw from them conclusions of law.

SEC. 359. In all actions, the jury, in their discretion,
may render a general or special verdict, but may be required by
the court, in any casein which they render a general verdict,

O to find specially upon particulars questions of fact to be stated

in writing. This special tinding is to be recorded with the
verdict.

SEC. 360. ‘When the special finding of facts is inconsistent with the general verdict, the former controls the latter, and
the court may give judgment accordingly.

SEC. 361. When, by the verdict, either party is entitled
to recover money of the adverse party, the jury, in their verdict,
must assess the amount of recovery. '

SEC. 362. In actions for the recovery of specific personal
property, the jury must assess the value of the property, as also
the damages for the taking or detention, whenever, by their
verdict there will be a judgement for the recovery or return of
the property.

ARTICLE lll .

Trial by the (.»'ou.rt.

SEC'!‘I0.\1-— | sr.c1'x0.\'-363. Trial by jury may be wnivecl, and 364. (‘ourt to llnd conclusions of fact and
cause trial by con rt. ' law separately.

SEC. 363. The trial by jury may be waived by the parties
in actions arising on contract, and, with the assent of the court:
in other actions, in the following manner :

F2’:-st.—-By failing to appear at the trial.

Second.—By written consent in person, or by attorney, filed
with the clerk.

Thz'rd.—By oral consent in open court entered on the record.

SEC. 364. Upon trials of questions of fact by the court,
he shall state in writing the conclusions of fact found, separately from the conclusions of law.

ARTICLE IV .

Excepii on 

SEC1'l0.\'—- S}-3CTl(_)S—_—
365, What. is an exception, 369. Where they do not appear of record.
866. When to be taken. ’ and how exceptions may be obtained
36?. No form necessary in tiling cxccp- I from by-standers.
tions. I 310. I-Exceptions must be material and
368. How to be taken where the facts ap- 1,11”-ud;¢;a1 to the party
_ pear of record. l

SEC. 365. An exception is an objection taken to a decision of the court upon a matter of law.

SEC. 366. The party objecting to the decision must
except at the time the decision is made, and time may be given
to reduce the exception to writing, but not beyond the succeeding term; but the parties may agree that exceptions to all

decisions made during a trial, are saved without being especially mentioned at the time the decision is made.

SEC. 367. No particular form of exception is required.
The objection must be stated, with so much of the evidence as
is necessary to explain it and no more, and the whole as briefly
as possible.

SEC. 368. Where the decision objected to is entered on
the record, and the grounds of objection appear in the entry,
the exception may be taken by the party causing to be noted,
at the end of the decision, that he excepts.

SEC. 369. “There the decision is not entered on the
record, or the grounds of objection do not sutiiciently appear in
the entry, the party excepting must reduce his exception to
writing, and present it to the judge for his allowance and signature. If true, it shall be the duty of the judge to allow and
sign it; whereupon, it shall be filed with the pleadings as a
part of the record, but not spread at large on the order book.
If the Writing is not true, the judge shall correct it, or suggest
the correction to be mabe, and when corrected, sign it. If the

party excepting is not satisfied with the correction, upon his
procuring the signatures of two by-standers, attesting the truth
of his exception as by him prepared, the same shall be filed as
a part of the record '; but the truth of the exceptions may be
controverted and maintained by the affidavits, not exceeding
five in number on each side, to be filed with the clerk within
ten days after the filing of the exception. Whicli affidavits
shall be a part of the record.

SEC. 370. No exception shall be regarded, unless it is
material and prejudicial to the substantial rights of the party

excepting.

ARTICLE V.

.7Vew Trials.

s};C1'IoN- s1-:c1‘1o.\'—
311,. For what causes a new trial may be 375- NEW W31 1113)’ DC granted WW1‘ 319»
end of a term, for grounds afterward

granted.
372. For what causes it shall not be granted. ‘li~‘(‘-°"°“‘3‘l- Aplmcallo“ 1%" P°t‘“°"
373. Application for new trial must be made '““5t be l“ “"99 3'93”at same term judgment is rendered.

374. Grounds to be in writing, and sustained by anidavits.

SEC. 371. A new trial is a re-examination in the same
court of an issue of fact, after a verdict by a jury or a decision
by the court. The former verdict or decision may be vacated
and a new trial granted, on the application of the party
aggrieved, for any of the following causes, affecting materially
the substantial rights of such party: '

First.—Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury or
prevailing party, or any order of court or abuse of discretion by
which the party was prevented from having a fair trial.

Second.—Misconduct of the jury or prevailing party.

T hz'rd.—Accident or surprise which ordinary prudence could

not have guarded against. A

Fourtlz.—Excessive damages, appearing to have been given
under the influence of passion or prejudice.

Fz'ftIz.—Error in the assessment of the ‘amount of recovery,
whether too large or too small, where the action is upon a contract or for the injury or detention of property.

Sixth.—The verdict or decision is not sustained by sufficient
evidence, or is contrary to law.

Seventh.—Newly discovered evidence, material for the party
applying, which he could not, with reasonable diligence, have
discovered and produced at the trial. i

EightIz.—Error of law occurring at the trial, and excepted to

by the party making the application.

SEC. 372. A new trial shall not be granted on account of

the smallness of damages in an action for an injury to the person or reputation, nor in any other action where the damages

shall equal the actual pecuniary injury sustained.

SEC. 373. The application for a new trial must be made
at the term the verdict or decision is rendered, and, except for
the cause mentioned in Subdivision 7, of Section 371, shall be
within three days ater the verdict or decision was rendered,
unless unavoidably prevented.

SEC. 374. The application must be made by motion;
upon written grounds, fIled at the time of making the motion‘
The grounds mentioned in 2d, 3d and 7th Subdivisions of section 371, must be sustained by atiidavits showing their truth,
and may be controverted by affidavits.

SEC. 375. Where grounds for new trial are discovered
after the term at which the verdict or decision was rendered, the
application may be made by petition filed with the clerk not later
than the second term after the discovery, on which a summons
shall issue, as on complaint, requiring the adverse party to appear

and answer it, on or before the first day of the next term. The application shall stand for hearing at the term to which the
summons is returned executed, and shall be summarily decided
by the court. The evidence may either be by depositions or by
witnesses examined in court. But no such application shall be
made more than three years after the final judgment was

rendered.

ARTICLE VI.

General Provisions.

SlIC1’l0N— . sI:c1'IoN3T6. Plaintin‘ to recover such damages as 371'. Provisions as to jury trials apply to
his cause of action entitle him to. trials by the court.

SEC. 376. Whenever damages are recoverable, the plaintifff may claim and recover any rate of damages to which he may
beentitled for the cause of action established.

SEC. 377. The provisions of this Title respecting trials
by jury, apply, so far as they are in their nature applicable, to
trials by the court. '

ARTICLE V! I.

Time of Tri«aJ.

s1;(tr1ox-- SECTION3‘lS. Clerk to keep three dockets. 1. A 389. After Ilrst hour, law docket called.
law docket. 2d. Equity docket. 3d. and then equity docket.
Motion docket. 390. All cases set for a day to be called
379. Law docket to contain all actions by for pleadings immediately after tlrst
proceedings at law. hour.
‘.530. To be made out at each term, and 391. On third day equity docket called for
actions arranged for particular days. pleadings381. NO trial of an issue of fact or assess- 392. Issues of la'w may be tried on that
meat of damages before the day to day in equity action.
which the action is docketed. 393. A motion is considered as made by
3832. Equity docket to include all actions its entry Onmotion docket.
by equitable proceedings. 394. When actions by proceedings at law
383. Motion docket. stand for trial, may be tried as to
384. Names of parties and their attorneys part, and continued as to others.
to be entered on docket. 395. When actions by equitable proceed3S5. Law docket to show on whom sum- ' ings stand for trial.
mons has been served, and issues 396. When interrogatories have been filed

formed. I must be answered before trial.
386. Motion docket to show time of entry 39?. When plaintiil’ entitled to trial in
Mid Object 01' U19 ln0ti0ll- actions by equitable proceedings.

387’ First "Om. of each day devoted to 398. Plaintitfmay dismiss as to part of dem_°ti°ns' ‘ fendants, and have trial as to the
388. It plotlconmnned. equity. docket to be others in Mum” by mmimmc pub
ca N.

ceedings.

SEC. 378. The clerk shall keep three separate dockets,
which shall be called the “Law Docket,” the “Equity Docket,”
and the “ MOtiO11 Docket.”

SEC. 379. On the law docket shall be entered all actions
prosecuted by proceedings at law, in the order in which they
were brought.

SEC. 380. The law docket shall be made out for each
term of the court; and the actions shall be set for particular
days, and so arranged by the clerk, that the cases set for each
day shall be tried, as nearly as may be, on that day..

SEC. 381. The trial Of any issue of factor assessment
Of damages by a jury in any case, shall be on or after the day
which it is set on the docket. .

SEC. 382. On the equity docket shall be entered all
actions prosecuted by equitable proceedings in the Order in which
they were brought.

SEC. 383. On the motion docket may be entered any
motion relating to proceedings in the court.

SEC. 384. The entry on all the dockets shall give the
name of the plaintifff and defendant, or if there be more than
one, then, of the first name in the pleadings, with the words,
“and others” added thereto, and the names of the attorneys.

SEC. 385. The entry on the law docket shall also show
whether or not the summons has heen fully served in due time
for trial, and whether or not the issue has been formed.

SEC. 386. The entry on the motion docket shall show
the date of the entry and the object of the motion.

SEC. 387. The first hour of each day of the term shall
be devoted to hearing motions, in which the court shall first
call the motion docket, and then, upon the attorneys present,
for motions.

SEC. 388. If the hour is not consumed in motions, the
court may proceed, during the remainder thereof, to call the
equity docket. ’

SEC. 389. At the expiration of the motion hour, the
court, except on the third day of the term, shall proceed to the
call of the law docket and the trial of the issues until the call is
completed, and then to the call of the equity docket.

SEC. 390. On each day of the term the court shall, immediately after the hearing of motions, call all the cases on the
law docket set for that day in which the summons has been
served in due time, as provided in Section 126, and in which
no issue of fact has been formed; and, upon failure to defend,
may render judgment; and at the same time, may hear and
determine all issues of law in such actions, and render judgment, or give further time for hearing and deciding them.

SEC. 291. On the third day of each term, the court shall
call all cases on the equity (locket in which the summons has
been served as provided in Section 128, and,°upon failure to
defend, may give judgment. .

SEC. 392. On the , third day the court may hear and
decide all issues of law in the actions as they are called, and
render judgment or give further time for hearing or deciding

them.

SEC. 393. The entry ofa motion on the motion docket
shall be considered as making the motion.

SEC. 394. Actions by proceedings at law shall stand for
trial at the first term after process has been served on the
defendant as specified in Section "126. An action upon contract, wherein the summons has been served in due time as
provided in Section 126, upon part only of the defendants,
shall stand for trial at the first term as to those so summoned,
and may be continued as to the others for further proceedings.
In other actions by proceedings at law, the plaintifff can only
demand trial at any term as to part of the defendants, upon
his discontinuing his action on the first day of such term as to
the others.

SEC. 395. Actions prosecuted by equitable proceedings,
shall stand tor trial at any term, where the pleadings have been,
or, by the provisions of Sections 128, 129 and 130, should have
been, completed ninety days before the commencementof such
term. But where they have not been so completed, though
they should have been by those Sections, the party in default,
as to time, shall not be entitled to demand a trial.

SEC. 396. Whc1'e interrogatories have been annexed to
a pleading in an action by equitable proceedings, the party
interrogated shall not be entitled to demand a trial, unless he
has answered the interrogatories either within twenty days after
they were filed, or twenty days before the term.

SEC. 397. The plaintifff shall be entitled to a trial in
actions by equitable proceedings, at the first term after the
summons has heen served on all the defendants as provided in section 128, where no issue of fact is made by the pleadings,
or where the plaintifffconsents that the statements of the answer
may be taken as true.

SEC. 398. Wliere the summons in an action by equitable
proceedings has been served in due time on part only of the
defendants, the plaintifff may dismiss his action as t.o those not
summoned, and_ proceed to trial as to the others, in all cases
where he could have maintained his action against them without joining those not summoned.

CHAPTER II I.

.711 (I__Q‘m 1'/zit.

Ai*lTIC‘I.l'I— ‘ ‘ A llTl('l»t'.1. -J1ui;iI1m1t in general. \
L’. J mi;:n1eut upon failure to uu~c\\'c-r.
.5. Juslgim-nt by conic-‘~'»ion. I
4 }l.inm~rot‘ _::iving anal entering iu«l:.:- I

5. (‘mu'c_\:uu'e by «'mnIui~3~inlIt'I‘~‘ under
i :l,illcl;.’lll(‘ll1_

nlenti
.-\l{'l'I(‘LI£ l.
.Im/g‘Im*n,f in, (r'eILcraI.
§|-;(,‘1’1c‘)_\'- 'st:(:'1‘Io.\'39*). Judgment ch-lined. I 405. Final judgnu-nls on 111o1't,(.;1urcs may
409. Judgment mav be given l'orm'against ‘'0 l‘9'1'1("'9ti “’m“"|l3 im€"'l0“"t0"}'
soiue of the lnu‘t.ie~. 0|‘llt‘1'-‘L
401, May be remlereul against part and 40d A sale of lllUl‘ig‘2lgt‘1l property llllI.~C
continued as to part of defendants. in‘ 0I'<lcl‘1‘Il402. How an action may be dismissed 407. Terms of sulcof mortgaged property.
without prejudice to a future action. 408. In action on a llN)l'tg1l;:‘(.‘, judgment

4913. Defendant ma)’ Droceei with his set- H135’ ‘'0 “9"‘l0"9‘l I0" ‘Wm P€‘l'50"3“.\'.
oil‘ or counterclaim, though pluintin‘ ‘ 409. Judgments for money um)‘ be set-on"
haa disniissed his action. Proceetlings for that purpose.

4‘-W -Il"lB"W?“t "13." 1“? ‘’9"‘l9‘'t''l‘€‘‘'<‘‘'"”}’ 410. Injunctions may be obtained before
against the «let'emiant.~‘. judgment, to pg-on-nt l0,s',~'_

SEC. 399. A judgment is the final determination of the
rights of the parties in an action.

SEC. 400. Judgment maybe given for or against one
or more of several plaintifffs, and for or against one or more of
several defendants. '

SEC. 401. In an action against several defendants, the
court may, in its discretion, render judgment against one or
more of them, leaving the action to proceed against the others
whenever a several judgment is proper.

SEC. 102. An action may be dismissed without prejudice
to a future action :

F£rst.—By the plaintifff, before the final submission of the
ease to the jur ', or to the court, where the trial is by the court.

Sccond.—By the court, where the plaintifff fails to appear on
the trial.

T}z2'rd.—By the court, for the want of necessary parties.

Fow-t}z.—By the court, on the application of some of the
defendants, where there are others whom the plaintifff fails to
prosecute with diligence.

I Fg']’tIz.—By the court, for disobedience by the plaintifff of an
order concerning the proceedings in the action. In all other
cases, upon the trial of the action, the decision must be upon

the merits.
SEC. 403. In any case where a set-off or counterclaim

has been presented, the defendant shall have the right of proceeding to the trial of his claim, although the plaintifff’ may
have dismissed his action or failed to appear.

SEC. 404. Though all the defendants have been summoned, judgment may be rendered against any of them severally, where the plaintifff would be entitled to judgments against
such defendants it‘ the action had been against them alone.

SEC. 405. It shall not be necessary, in any action upon
a. mortgage or lien, to enter an interlocutory judgment, or give
time for the payment of money, or for doing any other act;
but final judgment may, in such cases, be given in the first
instance. '

SEC. 406. I n the foreclosure of a mortgage, a sale of the
mortgaged property, shall in all cases, be ordered.

SEC. 407. Sales of personal property made by order of

court shall be on a credit of three months; sales of real property, on a credit of not less than three, nor more than six months.
or on installments equivalent to not more than four months
credit on the whole, to be determined by the court. In all
sales on credit, the purchaser shall execute bond, with good
surety, to be approved by the person making the sale, which
bond shall have the force of a judgment ; and in sales of real
property a lien shall be retained on the property for its price.
SEC. 408. In an action on a mortgage or lien,the judgment may be rendered for the sale of the property, and for

the recovery of the debt against the defendant personally.

SEC. 409. Judgments for the recovery of money may
he set-offagainst each other, having due regard to the legal and
equitable rights of all persons interested in both judgments.
The set-off may be ordered upon motion after reasonable notice
to the adverse party, where both judgments are in the same
court, or in an action by equitable proceedings in the court in
which the judgment sought to be annulled by the set-off, was
rendered.

SEC. 410. During the pendency of an action, the judg,
ment in which when recovered, could he used as a set-oil’
against a judgment in favor of the defendants, or either of them,
the court, to prevent loss by insolvency, non-residence, or
otherwise, may enjoin the collection of the judgment in favor

of such defendants, according to the provisions of Chapter IV ’ p

of Title VIII.

ARTICLE II. \

J1ulg'nz/cnts Upon, Failure to .,-lrzswcr.

5};c'n()_\’._ SECTlO!s'—

411. Court commission or jury may as«-er- l 412. It‘ only part of plaintia“s claim is
tain facts or assess damages to enable l t‘0ntl'0\’6?l‘f4’<l- .lll*l8|l|<‘llt at ‘"13’ “"19
mart to render judgment on failure I l'l"ml(’I'9tl 1'0!‘ Wllmilltler.

til lI.Y\S\VL‘l'.

SEC. 411. If the taking of an account, or the proof of
a fact, or the assessment of damages, is necessary to enable the
court to pronounce judgment upon a failure to answer, or after
a decision of an issue of law, the court may take the account,
hear the proof, and, in actions founded on contract, assess the
damages, or may refer the same to a commissioner, or may
direct the same to be ascertained or assessed by a jur ’. If a
jury is ordered, it shall be on or alter the day on which the
action is set for trial.

SEC. 412. If only a part of the plaintiff’f’s claim is controvcrted by the defendant’s answer, judgment may at any time
be rendered for the part not controverted.

ARTICLE III.
J zuIg‘mcn,t by CoIz.fe.ssi()/1,.

sLc'r1o.\'—- I sHt"rIo.\'——
.113. I)efend:tnt lIlil_\’ a1)p(':tl‘ in court and 415. Such jnd,-_rml-nt lllit)’ be enforced, and
confess judgment. i operate as a release of error.-‘.
114. (,'.1n2~e of action to be stated. a ' I

SEC. 413. Any person indebted, or against whom a cause
of action exists, may personally appear in a court of competent
jurisdiction, and with assent of the creditor or person having such
cause of action, confess judgn1ent therefore; wherenpon,judgment shall be entered accordingly.

SEC. 414. The debt or cause of action shall be briefly

-stated in the judgment, or in a writing to be filed as pleading

in other actions.
SEC. 415. Such judgment shall authorize the same proceedings for its enforcement as judgments rendered in actions
regularly brought and prosecuted, and the confession shall
operate as a release oferrors.

ARTICLE IV .

Jlunnm‘ of fliz'ing” mu} ]'.'n,teI'ing J u,(l_g‘mem‘.

sI:e'rto.\'-- sr;c'r1o.\'—
416. Judgment to be entered by Clerk in J 422. To be entered in order book, and
, (mnI'ul‘lllit_\' within general verdict. specify the reliefglven.

417. Court to direct the judgment to be entered on special verdict. .
418. ll‘ pleadings anthori/.eajndgnient for

423. Time for infant to show cause ugnins
judgment. need notlve reserved in the

one party, it is to be so entered. not- ' 'mdgmem'

\\'il,ll\t—ill]lll|lg a contrary verdict. ‘ 494- 'l“dg“19'lT~ lW°k'“”0“’ R913» MM it‘
419. May be given for defendant in cases ' lml‘|IOs('S.

ofset-of!‘ or counter-t-lainI,foratllrm- ’ 125. Satisfaction of a judgment to be enative relief. tcred by clerk. plaintifff, or his attor4*.'U. How to be rendered in ac-tions for ney.

],(.,.50m,1 l,,.0l,e,.t}-_ I 126. Otlieers and atturne_\‘s have lien on
«l‘3l. Where special tlzttitxtges are given by  judgment for fees.

statnttmiudgtnentmayl;egiventhere- 427. Lien in l':t\*or of :tttnrne_\': how :I-l'nr. when the l';trt~' amvettr. l -‘0l't(’«l.

SEC. 416. When a trial by jury has been had, judgment
must be entered by the clerk in conformity with the verdict,
unless it is special, or the court orders the case to be reserved
for future argument or consideration.

SEC. 417. Where the verdict is special, or where there
has been a special fmdin g upon particular questions of fact, or
where the court has ordered the case to be reserved, it shall
order what judgment shall be entered.

SEC. 418. Where, upon the statements in the pleadings,
one party is entitled by law to judgment in his favor, judgment
shall be so rendered by the court, though a verdict has been
found against such party.

SEC. 419. If a set-off, established at the trial, exceeds
the plaintifff's claim so established, judgment for the defendant

must be given for the excess; or, if it appears that the defendant
is entitled to any other affirmative relief, judgment shall be
given therefore.

SEC. 420. In an action to recover the possession of
personal property, judgment for the plaintifff may be for the
delivery of the property, or for the value thereof, in case a
delivery cannot be had, and damages for the detention. Where
the property has been delivered to the plaintifff, and the
defendant claims a return thereof, judgment for the defendant
may be for the return of the property, or its value in case a
return cannot be had, and damages for the taking and withholding of the property.

SEC. 421. Where special damages are given by statute,
and it appears by the verdict of the jury, or other decision of
the action, that such special damages are due and recoverable
by one of the parties against the other, the court shall render
judgment for them; and if, in ascertaining the amount thereof,
it is necessary to assess the value of any property, or amount of
any debt or claim, the court may hear the proof, and assess such
value or amount, or have the same made by a jury.

SEC. 422. The judgment must be entered upon the order

book, and specify clearly the relief granted, or other determination of the action.

SEC. 423. It shall not be necessary to reserve, in a j ud gment
or order, the right of an infant to show cause against it after
his attaining full age; but in any case in which, but for this
section, such a reservation would have been proper, the infant,
within twelve months after arriving at the age of twenty-one
years, may show cause against such order orjudgment.

SEC. 424. The clerk must keep among the records of
the court, a book to be called the “Judgment Book,” in which
shall be alphabetically cross-indexed all the judgments of the
court, according to the surnames of the plaintifff and defendant; and if there is more than one plaintifff or defendant, then
of the plaintifffand defendant first named in the complaint. It

shall be so arranged that all the judgments in the ease of plaintifffs whose surnames commence with the same letter shall be

together, and all of each term shall immediately succeed each
other. The entry in the judgment book must show the names
of the plaintifff and defendant, and, if more than one, then of
the first-named of each of the pleadings, with the words “ and
others," the term at which the judgment was entered, and a

’ reference to the order book and page at which the judgment is

to be found, with a space left for the entry of the satisfaction of
the judgment. Judgment by default rendered by the several
circuit courts of this State may be recorded in a separate book
for that purpose. Provided, That the orders showing the rendition of such judgments be signed by thejudge of the court.

SEC. 425. Whenever the whole judgment shall appear
to be satisiied by the return of an execution, it shall be the duty
of tl e clerk to enter in the judgment book, in the space left for
that purpose, “ satisfied by execution.” Whenever a judgment
is satisfied otherwise than upon an execution, it shall be the
duty of the party or his attorney to enter satisfaction in the
judgment book, which shall be sufficiently done by writing the
words “satisfied in full,” with the date of the entry, and the
signature of the party making it; and the court may, on motion
and notice, compel an entry of satisfaction to be made.
SEC. 426. When anyjudgment is recovered in a court of
record, by, or in favor of, any party, all officers who, in pursuance of law, and attorneys who, upon contract express or
implied, have rendered service for or in behalf of such party, in
the action or proceeding in, or upon which, such judgment was
rendered, shall severally have liens upon and an interest in
such judgment, as follows:

Each officer to the amount to which he is entitled by law as
costs, fees, allowances or otherwise, for services rendered to or
on behalf of such party; and

Each attorney to the amount to which he is entitled by contract, or, if no amount is fixed, a reasonable compensation for
his services rendered as aforesaid for or on behalf of such party. *

And any property sold upon, in pursuance of, or to satisfy,
such judgment, and purchased, directly or indirectly, by, or on
behalf of the party in whose favor such judgment was rendered,
his heir, personal representative, or assignee, shall be deemed
to be held in trust for any person holding such lien, to the
amount of his lien until the same is discharged. And when
such judgment is for the recovery of real or personal property,
the lien shall amount to an interest in such property to the
extent of such lien. But such lien in favor of an attorney
for services rendered as aforesaid, shall not prevail against any
one who in good faith and without notice of such lien has made
payments to the person in whose favor such judgment was
rendered, upon or in consequence of such judgment, unless
such attorney shall have asserted his lien as provided in the
next section. V

SEC. 427. Any attorney who has a lien upon any judgment under the provisions of the preceding section, may,
within ten days after the rendition of such judgment, file with

the clerk a statement in writin g, signed by himself or his agents,

stating that he claims a lien uponzsuch judgment for services
rendered by him. Whereupon, the clerk shall enter upon the

record upon the margin of such judgment, or near the same, a
memorandum showing that such person claims a lien upon
such judgment, which memorandum shall be indorsed upon
each execution and orderjof salejissued thereon, and shall, as
to allpcrsons, be equivalent to actual notice of such lien.

ARTICLE V .

Conveyance by Com-missioners.

SECTION432. After a conveyance adludgcd, if part
die, not necessary to revive.

SECTION428. Cases in which real property may be
conveyed by commissioners.

499. Deed to refertojudgment. 433, Conveyance must be apppoycd by

430. Commissioners deed passes title of °°‘"'t'v ‘““13PI”'°"31 °"‘1°"5°d °“ “parties ordered to convey. 434. Conveyance to be signed with name

of commissioner only .
435. Where to be recorded.

43]. Conveyance made in pursuance of
sale passes the title of all the parties.

SEC. 428. Real property may be conveyed by a commissioner appointed by the court:
Fz'rst.—Where, by the judgment in an action, a party is‘ ordered to convey such property to another.

Second.—Where such property has been sold under a judgment or order of the court, and the purchase money paid.

SEC. 429. The deed of the commissioners shall so refer
to the judgment, orders and proceedings authorizing the conveyance, as that the same may be readily found.

SEC. 430. A conveyance, made in pursuance of a judgment, shall pass to the grantee the title of the parties ordered
to convey the land.

SEC. 431. A conveyance made in pursuance of a sale
ordered by the court, shall pass to the grantee the title of all
the parties to the action or proceeding.

SEC. 432. After a conveyance is ordered or adjudged,
if any of the parties shall die, it shall not be necessary to revivethe action, but the conveyance, in pursuance of the judgment
or order, shall be effectual to pass the title, notwithstanding thedeath of any of the parties.

SEC. 433. A conveyance by a commissioner shall not

pass any right, until it has been examined and approved by thecourt, which approval shall be indorsed on the conveyance, and
recorded with it.
SEC. 434. It shall be necessary for the conveyance to be

signed by the commissioner only, without afiixing the names
of the parties whose title is conveyed ; but the names of such.

parties shall be recited in the body of the conveyance.

SEC. 435. The conveyance shall be recorded in the office
in which, by law, it should have been recorded, had it been
made by the parties whose title is conveyed by it.

CHAPTER ‘IV.

Revivor of J wdgments.
8EG‘l‘ION— snc'rrox—

430. Execution may be issued on a. jndg- 44). Death of part of defendants does not
ment until barred by limitations. prevent execution against the sur487. Death of plaintiff does not prevent. vivors.
Km“ °‘ ’°P'°5°““m"«°' ‘° 1” in‘ 441. If execution is improperlv issued.
d°r3°d' may be enjoined and quashed.

4-38. Surviving plaintifff, or representative
of plaintiff, to be regarded _as plain 18“'.

439. Amdavit to be filed before making

indorsement, and certiicate of qualification as representative.

442. Judgments revived by proceedings at

SEC. 436. An execution may be issued upon a judgment
at any time until the collection of it is barred by the statute of
limitations, although no execution may have been previously
issued Within a year and a day.

SEC. 437. The death of one or all the plaintifffs shall not
prevent an execution being issued thereon, but on such execution the clerk shall indorse the death of such of them as are
dead, and, if all be dead, the names of the persoal representatives, or last survivor, if the judgment passed to the personal
representative, or the names of the survivor's heirs, if the judgment was for real property. \

SEC. 438. The sheriff, in acting upon an execution indorsed as provided in the last section, shall proceed as if the
surviving plaintifff or plaintifffs, or the personal representative
or heirs, were the only plaintifffs in the execution, and take sale,
stay, and forthcoming bonds accordingly.

SEC. 439. Before making the indorsements named
above, an affidavit shall be filed with the clerk, by one of the
plaintifffs, or personal representatives, or heirs, or their attorney,
of the death, and that the persons named as such are the personal representatives or heirs, and in the case of personal
representatives, they shall file with the clerk a certificate of
their qualification in some county court of this State.

SEC. 440. The death of part only of the defendants shall
not prevent execution, being issued, which, however, shall
operate alone on the survivors and their property. »

SEC. 441. The defendant may move the court to quash
an execution on the ground that the personal representative or
heirs of a deceased plaintifff are not properly stated in the
indorsement on the execution, and, during the vacation of the
court, may obtain an injunction, upon its being made to appear
that the persons named are not entitled to the judgment on
which the execution was issued.

SEC. 442. A judgment may be revived against the personal representatives, heirs and devisees, or either of them, ot
a deceased defendant, by an action prosecuted by proceedings
at law," without verification of the complaint.

TITLE X.

 

PROCEEDINGS IN CERTAIN ACTIONS.

CHAPTER1 in actions against absent and nonresident defendants, unknown heirs,
and unknown owners of property.

2. For alimony and divorce.

3. For the settlement of estates of deceased persons. '

4. For enforcing the satisfaction of judgments.
Summary proceedings.

5.
6. Civil proceedings on behalf of the
State.
7. Arbitrations and awards.

8. I-‘orcible entry and detainer.
9. Probate of wills.

CHAP'l'ER10. Settlement of the accounts of fiduciaries, etc., by the Probate Judge.

11. Writs of mandamus and prohibition.

12. For repealing and vacating charters,
and preventing the usurpation of an

onice or franchise.

13. Proceedings for the sale of the real
property of infants, persons of unsound mind, and married women.

14. Proceedings for the division of land
and the allottment of dower in the

Probate Court.

CHAPTER I.

In actions against absent and non-resident Defendants,
Unknown Heirs and Unknown Owners of Property.


446.Quali1ications ot' the attorney appointed for a defendant constructively summoned.

447. If bond is not given, the court must
retain control over the property for
the time allowed defe:-.dant to appear
and defend.

448. The court may order plaintin‘ to be
examined on oath concerning his
claim.

449. If a set-oil’ or counterclaim is disclosed, to be allowed.

SECTION 443.

slzcnox-—

450. A defendant constructively summoned, may appear in live years
after judgment, and have the action
retried. ‘

451. If a copy of the judgment is served
on the defendant, the time is reduced
to one year.

4 ts. Manner of serving a copy of the judgment.

453. The title of purchasers of property ,
other than the plaintin‘, not to be
affected.

454. Liens can only be created by attachment or judgment.

455. No personal judgment to berendered
against absent defendants who have
not appeared.

A defendant constructively summoned, shall

be allowed, at any time before judgment, to appear and defend
the action; and, upon a substantial defense being disclosed,
time may be given on reasonable terms to prepare for trial.

Ss:c'rIoN 444. The statements of the complaint, as against a
defendant constructively summoned, and who has not appeared,
except such as are for his benefit, shall not be taken as true,
but are to be established by proof. But where the plaintifff files
with the complaint, his own affidavit, stating that any of the
allegations thereof, recited in the affidavit are true, and known
to be so by. the defendant, and that they cannot be proved, or
shown otherwise than by his answer, so far as afliant knows or
believes, such allegations, unless denied by the answer, shall
be taken as true.

SEC. 445. Before judgment is rendered against a defendant constructively summoned, and who has not appeared, it
shall be necessary: ' '

Fz'rst.—That an attorney be appointed, at least sixty days
before the judgment is rendered, to defend for the defendant and inform him of the action and of such other matters as
may be useful to him in preparing for his defense. He may
take any step in the progress of the action, except nling
answer, without it having the effect of entering the appearance
of such defendant. The attorney may be appointed by the

clerk when the warning order is made, or by the court, and
shall receive a reasonable compensation for his services, to be
paid by the plaintifff, and taxed in the costs.

Second.-—That a bond, to be executed to such defendant by
one or more sudicient sureties of the plaintifff, to the effect
that, if the defendant within the period prescribed by law, shall
appear, make defense, and set aside the judgment, the plaintifff
shall restore to him the property taken under any attachment
in the action, or under the judgment therein, the restoration of
which may be adjudged, and pay to the defendant such sums

of money as the court may award to him.
TIu'rd.—That in suits brought by the personal representative

or creditor of a deceased person, to have a settlement of his
estate, and a sale of his real estate for the payment of his debts,
and the heirs or devisees are non-residents, it shall not be
required of the personal representative, or any creditor, to execute the bond required by this section.

SEC. 446. The attorney appointed pursuant to the last
section; shall be a regular practising attorney of the court;
and, before an order for his compensation is made, he must
make a written statement of all he has done in the case, which
shall be signed by him, and filed with the papers of the action.

SEC. 447. If the bond mentioned in section 445 is not
given, the court may enter a judgment ascertaining the rights
of the parties, but shall retain control over and preserve any
property, or the proceeds thereof, which may have been attached in the action, until the expiration of the period allowed to
the defendant to appear and make defense; when, if no defense is made, such money, or property, or its proceeds, shall
be delivered according to the judgment.

SEC. 448. Before rendering judgment against a defendant, constructively summoned, and who has not appeared, the
court may cause the plaintifff to appear personally in court, or
before a commissioner, and answer, under oath, interrogatories
concerning the matters in the complaint, or any mattersof defense thereto, including matters of set-off or counterclaim,
and may order the examination to be reduced to writing, and
filed with the papers of the action.

SEC. 449. ,If, upon examination provided in the last
section, any matters of set-oil‘ or counterclaim are disclosed,
the same may be adjusted and allowed in the judgment.

SEC. 450. Where a judgment has been rendered against
a defendant or defendants constructively summoned, and who
did not appear, such defendants, or any one or more of them,
may, at any time within five years after the rendition of the
judgment, appear in court and move to have the action re-tried;
and, security for the costs being given, they shall be admitted
to make defense; and thereupon, the action shall be re-tried as
to such defendants, as if there had been no judgment; and,
upon'the new trial, the court may confirm the former judgment, or may modify or set it aside, and may order the plaintifff to restore any money of such defendant paid to him under
it, or any property of the defendant obtained by the plaintifff
under it, and yet remaining in his possession, and pay to the
defendant the value of any property which may have been
taken under an attachment in the action, or under the judgment, and not restored. But the provisions of this section
shall not apply to judgments granting a divorce, except so far
as relates to alimony.

SEC. 451. The plaintifff may, at any time after judgment,
cause a certified copy thereof to be served on a defendant constructively summoned; whereupon the period in ‘which such
defendant is allowed to appear and have a new trial, shall be
reduced to one year after such service.

SEC. 452. The service of the copy of the judgment, if
in this State, shall be made and proved in the same manner as
the service of a summons; and if out of this State, in the
manner prescribed in section 77, as to the service of a copy. of
the complaint and summons and proof thereof. ‘

SEC. 453. The title of purchasers in good faith to any
property sold under an attachment or judgment, shall not be
effected by the new trial permitted by section 450, except the title of property obtained by the lplaintifffgand not bought of
him in good faith by others.

SEC. 454. No lien on __the property ot' a defendant con\

structively summoned, shall be created otherwise than by an
attachment, as provided in chapter‘ 3, of title 8, or by judgment. Nor shall any other defendant be restrained from paying or delivering any money or property into his hands, belonging, or due, to such defendant, by notice indorsed on the
summons, or otherwise than by attachment or judgment.

SEC. 455. No personal judgment shall be rendered
against a defendant constructively summoned, or summoned
out of this State, as provided in section 77, and who has not
appeared in the action.

CHAPTER 11.

For Alimony and Divorce.

SICTiON— stories.456. The action to be by equitable pro- 462. When divorce granted to married
eeeding. woman court may restore name.

451. Pieadings not required to be verified. 463. Proceedings for annrling a divorce
But answers to interrogatories con- shall be by petition, veriiied by both
cerning property must be under oath. pm-ties,

453- Smmments 01' “)0 Complaint 1111181556 464. To annul a divorce from bed and
P!‘°V0d- board, either party may file a com459. What must be alieged by plaintifff in plaint,

addition to the cause for a divorce.
460. During action wife to be allowed
maintenance.

461. Upon a judgment for a divorce, an
order to be made for restoration of

° the property of each party, which order may be enforced by further proceedin g. ‘

SEC. 456. The action for alimony or divorce shall be by
equitable proceedings.

SEC. 457. The pleadings are not required to be veriiied
by aiiidavit. But either party may file interrogatories to the
other in regard to any matter of property involved in the action,

which shall be answered on oath, as interrogatories in other
actions, and have the same effect. ' .
SEC. 458. The statements of the complaint for a divorce
shall not be taken as true because of the defendant's failure to
answer, or his or her admission of their truth.
SEC. 459. The plaintifff to obtain a divorce must allege

and prove, in addition to a legal cause of divorce,

F2'rst.—A residence in the State for one year next before the
commencement of the action.

Second.—That the cause of divorce oecured or existed in this
State, or if out of the State, either that it was a legal cause of
divorce in the State where it occurred or existed, or that the
plaintifff’s residence was then in this State.

Thz'rd.—That the cause of divorce occurred or existed within
five years next before the commencement of the suit.

SEC. 460. During the pendency of an action for divorce
or alimony, the court may allow the wife maintenance and a
reasonable fee for her attorneys, and enforce the payment of
the same by orders and executions, and proceedings as in cases
of contempt.

SEC. 461. In every final judgment for divorce from the
bond of matrimony, an order shall be made, that each party be
restored to all property not disposed of at the commencement
of the action, which either party attained from or through the
other during the marriage, and in consideration or by reason
thereof. The proceedings for enforcing this order may be by
petition of either party, specifying the property the other has
failed to restore; upon which the court may proceed to hear
and determine the same in a summary manner, after ten days’
notice to the opposite party.

SEC. 462. VVhen a divorce is granted to a married
woman, the court may restore her to the name she bore previous
to the marriage from which she has been divorced, when the
complaint contains a prayer for that relief.

SEC. 463. The proceedings for annulling a final judgment for a divorce from the bond of matrimony, shall be a
joint petition of the parties, verified by both parties in person,

filed in the court rendering the judgment, upon which the
court may forthwith annul the divorce.

SEC. 464. To annul a divorce from bed and board either
party may file a complaint setting forth a sufficient cause for
annulling the same, on which a summons shall issue against
the other, and other proceedings be had as in actions by equitable proceedings.

CHAPTER III.

For the Settlement of the Estate of Deceased Persons.

SECTION465. Who may sue for a settlement.

s1s:c'rxo.\:-470. Legatees and distributces liable to a

«I66. 1!’ Personal estate insunlcient to P3)’ '”mct’5uit W crmmors to the extent’
debts, lands to be s0m_ ‘ and for the time administrator would

_ have been liable.
467. The order for creditors to appear and 4,.“ Remmung bond mm, be re uimd of
prove their claims. to be notitied by ' q

by ti d the Te legatee or distributee, on which
nu ma‘ on an 0 r“ ° ’ creditor may suoin five years after

 
 

453- A °"9‘1i'v°" 3PPe‘"'i“8v bewmes 3‘ grant of administration.
P379’: 3”“ l’°‘““1 by the 5‘"l3““3“t- 472. Injunction against other suits may

460. creditors who fail to appear, have no "0 8l'MIt€'l, if action for settlement is
claim against administrator who '«'0|1l|Il0nl‘0‘1 in tllme S‘t'*U'& {mm 873“!
has paid out the estate, I of adininistrntiam.

SEC. 465. The personal representative, heir, devisee,
legatee, distributee, or creditor of a deceased person, may
institute an action by equitable proceedings for the settlement
of his estate, and in such action may make all having an interest
in the estate and settlement, defendants.

SEC. 466. In an action for the settlcmentof an estate of
a deceased person, if it shall appear that the personal estate is
insufiicient for the payment of all debts, the court may order a
sale of all notes, bonds, bills, choses in action, and judgments,
belonging to such decedent's estate, whenever it appears to the
satisfaction of the court, that such notes, bond, bills, choses in
action, and judgments, belonging to such decedent’s estate,

whenever it appears to the satisfaction of the court, that such
notes, bond, bills, choses in actions, or judgments, cannot be
collected in a reasonable time by the use of ordinary diligence;
the court may also order the real property descended or devised
to the heirs or devisees, who may be parties to the action, or so

much thereof as shall be necessary to be sold for the residue of
such debts.

SEC. 467. In all actions for the settlement of estates of
deceased persons, the court shall make an order for the creditors
of such decedents to appear before a commissioner, to be
appointed by the court, and prove their claims by a certain day
to be named in the order, notice of which shall be given by
advertisement in a newspaper; or, if none is published in the
county, then by such other modes as the court may judge best
calculated to give such creditors actual notice of the order;
and in addition to the advertisement in a newspaper, the court
may direct publication in other modes.

SEC. 468. A creditor appearing before commissioner, and
presenting his claim, becomes thereby a party to the action,
and is concluded by the final judgment of the court allowing
or rejecting his claim.

SEC. 469. Creditors failing to appear and prove their
claims, agreeably to such order; shall have no claim against the
executor or administrator, who has actually paid out the estate
in expenses of administration, and to creditors, legatees, or
distributees. '

SEC. 470. Legatees and distributees shall be liable to a
direct action by a creditor to the extent of estate received by
each of them, notwithstanding the failure of the creditor to
appear, and the discharge of the personal representative, as
prescribed in the preceding Section ; and that liability shall
continue for the same period that the liability of the personal
representative would have continued but for said discharge.

SEC. 471. The court shall require the distributee or
legatee, before receiving his distributive share or legacy, to
execute bond, with good surety to the State, conditioned to pay
his proportion, not exceeding the amount received by him, of

any debt which may appear and be enforced against the estate
of the decedent within five years after the grant of the administration on the estate. Any creditor may institute an action
on said bond, within five years after the grant of administration,
but not after.

SEC. 472. Upon the institution of the action mentioned
in this Chapter, an order enjoining the prosecution of actions
against the personal representative, or heir, hy creditors, for
their demands, shall be entered. But such enjoining shall not
be made, unless the action for the settlement of the estate be

commenced in three years after the qualification of the personal
representative.

CHAPTER IV.

For Enforcing‘ the Satisfaction of J urlgnzent.

8tc'r1oN- SEC'l‘I0.\'— . ‘
473. After return of execution, no prop- 475. Attachments to be issued without
erty found, an equitable action may amdm-it or bond,

be b1'0l|8ht 1'07 di50°"91'}' Of 1110093’. 476. Lien created by levying attaclunents

CIIOSBS in 3050“. (‘N5 or serving summons with the object
474. The answers of defendants to he veri- l imlorsed.

fied by their own oath, and discovc- l 471. Court to enforce sn rrcmler of money

ries enforced. pr0pert_\'. etc.

SEC. 473. After an execution of fieri facias directed to
the county in which the judgment was rendered, or to the
county of the defendant’s residence, is returned by the proper
officer, either as to the whole or part thereof, in substance, no
property found to satisfy the same, the plaintifff in the execution may institute an action, by equitable proceedings, in the
court from which the execution issued, or in the court of any
-county in which the defendant resides, or is summoned, for the
discovery of any money, chose in action, equitable or legal
interest, and all other property to which the defendant is

entitled, and for subjecting the same to the satisfaction of the
judgment; and in such actions, persons indebted to the defend~

ant in the execution, or holding the money or property, in
which he has an interest, or holding the evidences or securities

for the same, may be also made defendants.

SEC. 474. The answers of all the defendants shall be
verified by their own oath, and not by that of an agent or attorney, and the court shall enforce full and explicit discoveries in
such answers by attachment.

SEC. 475. In the actions mentioned in the preceding
Sections, the plaintifff may have an attachment against the

property of the defendant in the execution, similar to the
general attachments provided for in Chapter III, of Title VIII,
without either the affidavit or bond therein required. ,

SEC. 476. Alien shall be created upon the property of
the defendant, the levy of the attachment or service of the summons with the objeet of the action indorsed thereon, on the
person holding or controlling his property.’

SEC. 477. The court shall enforce the surrender of the
money, or security therefore, or of any other property of the
defendant in the execution which may be discovered in the
action, and’, for this purpose, may commit to jail any defendant or garnishee, failing or refusing to make such surrender,
until it shall be done, or the court is satisfied that it is out of

his power to do so.

CHAPTER V.

.S'zumm(,ry I’r0ceediIz__g»‘s.

91-:C'noN-—
48l. (rules: made or entered on the «lay

specitletl, the motion is abandoned.
482. May be made on any day of the term.
483. No written pleadings required.

HKC‘I'l0N-478. In what vase.» judgment maybe obtained on motion.

 

479. Notice tobe given ten clays before
_iuol:.:ment. I

 

48‘. Notice to .~pe«-it'y the nature of the
motion. and the «lay it will he made.

 

SEC. 478. Judgments and final orders may be obtained, on motion, by sureties against their principals ; snreties
against their co-sureties, for recovery of money due them on
account of payments made by them as such ; by clients against
attorneys; plaintifffs in executions against sherids, constables,
and other officers, for the recovery of money or property co].
lected for them, and damages, and in all other cases specially
authorized by statute.

SEC. 479. Notice of such motion shall be served upon
the party against whom the judgment or order is sought, at
least ten days before the motion is made.

SEC. 480. The notice shall state in plain and ordinary
language the nature and grounds of the motion and the day
on which it will be made.

SEC. 481. Unless the motion is made or entered on the
motion docket on the day specified in the notice, it shall be
considered. as abandoned.

SEC. 482. The motion mentioned in this chapter may be
made on any day of the term of the court.

SEC. 483. The motion shall be heard and determined
without written pleadings, and judgment given according to
law and the rules of equity.

 

CHAPTER VI.

Ci lji-la Proceetlings on behalf of the Smm

azcTx0:4— st-:c'r1o.\'—

484. All debts due the State recoverable 489. Auditor may institute suit and emby action in the county where the ployconnsel, where a public debtor
533* 05 80\'8"1m°“t 5- makes fraudulent conveyances, etc.

4&3. Where an action is against a sheriff, 490. Money collected on judg|nm1ts to 1,0
C1‘-‘TR. 00110010?’ (‘*0-. mil)‘ be DWUKM paid into public treasnrv.
any time after i'=1"ur° *0 Im1~'0Ver- 491. Court to certit'y to the.Auditor the

N3. Action may be brought at first term
after failure to pay. .

457. (‘ertitlcate of balance by Auditor, etc., i
to be evidence of indebtedness. i

amountofjndgment. and fees. of oilicers, witnesses, etc.

492. Attorney and Solicitor General to be
allowed his postage. Attorney and

483. Precedence in all courts to be given Solicitor General allowed fees in certo suits in which the State sues for its tain cases.
0W“ ‘'59- l 4923 Docket fees in certain case»

10

SEC. 484. All actions for debts due the State of Arkansas, and all actions in favor of any State officer, State board or
commissioner, in their official capacity, and all actions which
are authorized by the provisions of this code, or by law, to be
brought in the name ot' the State, and all actions against such
board or commissioner, or State officer, for, or on account of
any otiicial act done, or omitted to be done, shall be brought
and prosecuted in the county which includes the seat of government.

SEC. 485. Where the debt is due by a sheriff, clerk or
collector of the revenue, or any other receiver of public monies,
for money collected or received, and such officer, collector, or
receiver, has failed to pay the same, in the manner and at the
time prescribed by law, the action for the recovery of such
debt may be commenced at any time after such failure.

SEC. 486. Where officers, corporations, or officers of
corporations, are required to report to the Auditor of Public
Accounts the monies in their hands belonging to the State, or
due by them, or by a corporation to the State, at a certain period, or periods, fixed by law, and a fine or penalty is imposed
for such failure, the action for the recovery thereof may be
commenced at any time after such failure.

SEC. 487. \Vhere a debt due to the State appears upon
the books of the Auditor of Public Accounts, or of any other
public officer, whose duty it shall be to audit and keep an accurate account of such debt, a copy of the balance due upon the
books of such auditor or oiiicer, certified by him to be a correct
and true balance, shall be suliieient evidence of such indebtedness.

SEC. 488. Precedence, shall be given, in all courts, to actions or other proceedings in which the State is a party, over
any other business of the court.

SEC. 489. VVhenever an execution against a public debtor
shall not be satisfied in the regular course of proceeding, and the
Solicitor General shall be of opinion that the same is caused
by fraudulent concealment of the debtor's property, or by any
other obstruction thereto, he may cause actions to be brought

either in the court in which the judgment was obtained, or in
any other Circuit Court where the property may be, or the
debtor found, to set aside such fraudulent conveyances, remove
any obstructions to the execution, or to obtain satisfaction of
the judgment, and for that purpose may employ an attorney
to bring such action, or an agent to prepare the suit and attend
to the collection of the judgment, and may agree as to a compensation to be paid for their services, either certain or contingent on success; but the amount of such contingent compensation shall not exceed twenty per cent. on the first three
hundred dollars, and ten per cent. on any excess over said
amount ; for which compensation, when due, the Auditor, upon
the certificate of the Solicitor General, shall issue a warrant on
the Treasurer. T ‘

SEC. 490. The sheriff, or other officer, collecting any
money due to the State, shall pay the same into the public
treasury and obtain a quietus therefore, and not to the Solicitor
General, or any other attorney or agent employed in the collection of the same, orto any other person, unless otherwise
directed by law.

SEC. 491. The court rendering a judgment in favor of
the State, shall certify the amount thereof, together with the

costs, to the Auditor; and shall also certify the fees due to 5313- cers, and to witnesses, for attendance on behalf of the State,
for which the Auditor shall issue his warrant on the,Treasurer
to the person entitled.

SEC. 492. The Solicitor General, and Attorney General,
may make out, and certify to the Auditor, an account of the
postage he may have paid in sending out notices and process,
and upon letters sent or received by him, relating to actions or
proceedings in which the State is interested, who shall thereupon issue his warrant on the Treasurer for the amount thereof.

SEC. 493. In all civil actions, in which the State is a
party and shall be successful, the docket fee, directed to be
taxed by the provisions of this Code, shall be certified in favor
of, and belong to the Attorney General or Prosecuting Attorney, or whoever is required by this Code to represent the

. State in such action.

CHAPTER VII.

.Arbitrati»0ns and .4war(ls.

8Bx.‘Tl0N— SECTION494. Procec-<ling.~ in arbitrations. Sixth.-Trial before arbitrators. and
First.—Manner of submitting contro- their award.
versy by rule of court. Seventh.—IIow the award to be made
Sec-on«l.—The arbitrators to be sworn. thejndginent of the court.
Their oath. May examine parties on Eighth.—.\'o award to be set aside for
oath. defect of form: courts of equity to
'I‘hird.—Ma_v issue suhpenas for Witt- havejnrisdiction over awards.
nesses. a:-zd report to court the fail- .\’inth.-Matters in justices jurisdicure ot witnesses to attend or testify. tion may besubmitted by rule or orFourth. - I’ e rs o n at-representatives, der in ,iustice's court, on which same
committees and guardians may make proceedings may be had: subject to
a submission. appeal.

Fifth .—lt' arbitrator refuses to act. reference may be set aside.

SEC. 494. The proceedings upon arbitration and award,
made under an order or rule of court, or by consent of parties, in vacation shall be as follows:

Fz'rst.—All, controversies, which might be subject of a suit
or action, may be submitted to the decision of one or more arbitrators, or/to two and their umpire, in the manner provided in
this chapter. Parties may make such submission by rule of
any court having jurisdiction of the subject matter, or by consent, in vacation. The parties making such submission shall,
where there is no suit or action pending, by written agreement
filed, and noted on the record, or by an entry on the record,
state what matter is submitted. The rule of the court shall
state the time in which the award is to be made and returned.
The court may enlarge the time for making and returning an
award.

Second.-—Arbitrators and the umpire, if there be one, before
they proceed to act, shall take an oath to decide the controversy, to them submitted, according to law and evidence, and
the equity of the case, to the best of their judgment, without
favor or affection; and a certificate of such oath shall be returned to the court with the award. They shall have power to

examine either party, on oath, at the request of his adversary.
I

Thz'rd.—An y one of the arbitrators shall have power to issue
subpenas for witnesses to attend their sitting, and give evidence touching the matters referred to them, to which all
sheriffs, and other like oiiicers shall give obedience. Witnesses
failing to attend before arbitrators at the time and place designated, or who shall refuse to give evidence when they do
attend, shall be reported to the court by the arbitrators, and
proceeded against and punished as if the case had beeh pending in court.

Fourth.——The personal representatives of a decedent, guardian of an infant, committee of an idiot or lunatic, or any
trustee, may make a submission, as herein provided for, touching the estate of such decedent, infant, or insane person, or in
respect to which he is trustee. Any such submission, so made
in good faith, and the award made thereon, shall be binding,
and entered as the judgment or decree of the court. N 0 such
iiduciary shall be responsible for any loss sustained by an award
adverse to the interest he represents, unless the same be caused
by his fault or neglect.

F§ftk.—If any arbitrator shall fail or refuse to act, the court»

may set aside the order of reference.

Sz'xtIz.—The arbitrators and umpire, if there be one, shall
meet at such convenient times and places as may be necessary,
(of which the parties shall have reasonable noticc,) and hear
such evidence as either party may adduce. They shall have
power to administer oaths. They shall make their award in
writing, stating therein the time when it is made, and sign the
same. VVhen the award is made out, one copy thereof shall
be delivered to each of the contending parties, and the original
returned to the court, on which the arbitrators shall note the
time of delivering a copy to each party.

Seventh.—If such award is made out and returned, and copies
delivered ten days before the term of the court next succeedieg such delivery, the same shall be entered of record and
made the judgment or decree of the court, unless, on exceptions filed, the award shall be set aside.

Ez'ght}z.—No award shall be set aside for the want of form.

But courts shall have power over awards on equitable principles sis ieretofore. ‘

_N2.'ntIz.—Matters within the jurisdiction of,a justice of the

‘peace may be submitted to arbitrators by an order, rule, or

.agreement, entered on his record book in the same manner,
and the proceedings under it shall be the same, in every respect, as are authorized and required in other courts. Either

party may appeal to the Circuit Court from the judgment of
the justice, on the award, as in other cases.

CHAPTER VIII.

Forcible Entry and Deta.in.er.

8EC'l‘I0.\’- ' 8I£C1‘l0.\'— 495. Forcifile entry and detainer detlned. |
496. Not necessary that tenant should have I
received possession from the land505. Justice to p1‘e.~(‘i'V'C all papers.

l 506. The losing party may traverse the in‘ quest in three days. Manner of tra: versing. and form of bond to be exeL

lord. _
497. How warrant to be i.~*.~ued, and its cum‘.
form.

50?. Amount of damages recoverable on
traverse bond.‘

498. How notice to be given.

(99. The warrant to he returned on the
premises by any justice attending.

1500. Justice attending to preside on the
trial.

501. Subpena for witnesses may be issued
by any justice. ; A

502. The inquest of jury to be signed and l 510‘ (°‘"'t mu". °"J°i" waste‘

 

508. Proceedings in Circuit t'ourt on the
traverse.

 

509. Execution to be issued by the Circuit
Court on a traverse.

returned to the justice. ; 511. Proceedings on forcible entry and de503 Jiistice to enter judgment on the in- ‘ tam" mt ‘O mu‘ ““ “°ti°“ rm’ "'3'
mwst pn~s. etc.

512. Limitation of two ye:ir~.
504. If the losing party does not traverse

the inquest in three days, execution
to be issued. Its form. 1

SEC. 495. A forcible entry, in the meaning of this chapter, is an entry into lands or tenements, without the consent of
the person having the possession, in fact, of the premises. A
forcible detainer is the refusal of a tenant to surrender to his

landlord the land or tenements demised, after the expiration of

his term; or, of a tenant at will, after the determination of the
will of the landlord.

SEC. 496. It shall not be-material whether the tenant
received possession of the demised premises from his landlord,
or became his tenant after obtaining possession of them.

SEC. 497. Upon complaint being made, by the person
aggrieved thereby, that a forcible entry, or a forcible detainer
has been committed, to a justice of the peace of the county in
which the ‘land or tenement, or a principal part thereof, lies,

he shall issue his warrant to the sheriff, in substance, as follows:

THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.
To the S/zerzjf of

Wnnams, A. B. hath made complaint to me, J. S., a justice
of the peace of said county, that C. D. and E. F., did, on the
—— day of , forcibly enter into, (or forcibly detain from
said A. B.,) one house and field in the township of , in
the county aforesaid, (or other general description of the lands

or tenements,) which were in the peaceable possession of A.

B., (or which the said C. D. and E. F., tenants of the said A.
B., now held against him.)

You are, thereforee, commanded to summon a good and lawful jury of your county, to meet on the premises, on the
day of , to inquire into the forcible entry (or forcible
detainer) aforesaid, and give to the said C. D. and E. F. at
least three days notice of the time and place of the meeting of
the jury, witnesses, etc.

SEC. 498. The sheriff, or other officer, shall give to the
defendants notice, according to the direction of the warrant,
which notice shall be given to each defendant; and no inquest

County :

 

shall be made against any defendant who has not been notified .

as aforesaid. If, however, the notice has been given, but not
three days before the meeting of the jury, the inquest shall, on

his motion, be adjourned until the expiration of the three
days.

SEC. 499. At the time appointed for holding the inquisition, the sheriff, or other othcer, shall return on the warrant
upon whom, and where, it had been executed, and shall deliver
the same, together with a panel of the jury, to any justice of
the peace who may attend; whereupon the justice, whether the
defendants be present or absent, shall, on the premises, or some
place convenient thereto, within his discretion, administer an
oath to the jurors, in substance, as follows: “ You and each of
you shall well and truly inquire into, and return , whether the
defendant (or defendants) be guilty of the forcibly entry (or
detainer) complained of in the Warrant in this cause. So help
you God.”

SEC. 500. Such justice shall superintend the taking of
the inquisition, swear witnesses, decide incidental points of
law which may arise and be referred to him by either party,
preserve the peace, enforce the rules of decorum, and punish,
according to law, contempts of his authority.

SEC. 501. Any justice of the peace may issue subpenas
for witnesses at the request of either party, and their attendance and testifying may be coerced by the justice who presides
at the inquest.

SEC. 502. The jurors, after hearing the. evidence,» shall,
by their inquest, say whether the defendants, or either of them
be guilty or not guilty of the forcible entry or detainer complained of, and shall return their inquest, signed by one of their
body, to the justice of the peace. If the jury do not agree,
they may be discharged by the justice presiding, and another
he ordered to be summoned to meet, either immediately or at
some future day, to be then and there fixed and iudorsed on
the warrant, and this proceeding continued until a jury does
agree in an inquest.

SEC. 503. Upon the return of the inquest, the justice of
the peace shall enter a judgment according to the inquisitiou,
either for the plaintifff, in substance, that he have restitution of
the premises aforesaid, and recover of defendants his ‘costs in
this behalf expended; or for the defendants in substance, that
they recover of the plaintifff their costs in this behalf expended;

or for the plaintifff against some of the defendants, and for the
other defendants against the plaintifff, where some are found
guilty and others not guilty.

SEC. 504. If the party against whom the inquisition is
found shall not file atraverse of the inquisition with the justice, on or before the third day after the finding of the inquest,
the justice shall, on request, issue his execution for the costs;

and if the inquisition be in favor of the plaintifff, he shall also
issue his warrant of restitution, in substance, as follows :

“ Courrrr.
To tlze Sherzf of County :
WHEREAS, C. D. and E. F. have, by an inquisition taken
before me, J. P., a justice of the peace for said county, been
found guilty of a forcible entry (or detainer) in one house and
field, being (here give description of the premises) in the
county aforesaid, (or other general description of the possessions,) to the injury of A. B. You are, thereforee, in the name
of the State of Arkansas, commanded, that you put the said
A. B. in the possession of said premises, and make return
within days to me how you have executed this warrant.
Given under my hand this ‘— day of

—. —, J. P.

SEC. 505. The justice of the peace shall carefully preserve
all papers, records, and proceedings relating to the cause, except where he transmits them to the clerk, as hereinafter
directed, and shall deliver to any person requiring it, a transcript thereof, such person paying him therefore two cents for
every twenty words in such transcript.

SEC. 506. If either party conceive himself aggrieved by
the finding of the jury, he may file a traverse thereof with the
justice within three days next after the finding af'oresaid, in
substance, as follows : 0

“ A. B. against C. D., on a writ of forcible entry (or detainer): The plaintifff (or the defendant) saith, that the inquisition returned in this cause is not true; wherefore he prays that
proceedings thereon may he stayed until the same can he tried
according to law. A. B.”

And shall also, within the same time, before said justice,
give bond with sufficient surety, to be approved by the justice,
to his adversary, in a reasonable penalty, to be fixed by the
justice, with a condition, in substance, as follows:

“ The condition of the above bond is such, that whereas, an
inquisition ot' forcible entry (or detainer), in whicl1 A. B. was
plaintifff, and C. D. and E. F. were defendants, was found before —, a justice of the peace for said county, in favor of
said A. B., on the —— day of‘———-1, which inqnisition.hath
been traversed by the said C. D. and E. F. Now, should the
said C. D. and E. F. pay to said A. B., all costs of suit and
damages which may be sustained said A. B., of said traverse,
in consequence of said traverse, if it be not prosecuted with
effect, then this obligation to be void.”

Upon giving which bond the justice shall stay all further
proceedings on the inquisition, and return the whole of the
papers and proceedings, or a fair transcript thereof, to the office
of the Circuit Court for said county, within ten days thereafter.

SEC. 507. Upon this bond, if the traverser fails to prosecute his traverse with effeet, he and his surety shall be liable
for the damages for witholding the possession which the traversee may be entitled to recover against the traverser, during
the pendcncy of the traverse, either in the Circuit Court, or
Supreme Court, as well as the reasonable expenses of the traversee in defending the traverse, not exceeding the penalty of
the bond.

SEC. 508. The clerk shall docket the traverse as other
actions; it shall stand for trial as docketcd; the traversee shall
join issue on the traverse; it shall be tried by a jury, and judgment given on the verdict, as in other cases; Provided however,
That nothing herein contained shall be construed to prevent
the court from giving judgment against either party for default,
nor from deciding any matter of law properly brought before
them, as in other cases.

SEC. 509. After a cause is returned to the Circuit Court
executions for costs or for restitution shall issue from the office
of that court, according to the judgment in that cause.

SEC. 510. The court before whom such cause is depending, or any judge thereof in vacation, may make any order
restraining waste or destruction of the premises, and punish, by

tine and imprisonment, or either of them-, a disobedience of

such order.

SEC. 511. The proceedings under a writ of forcible entry
or forcible detainer, shall not be a bar to an action for trespass.
or for waste, or for rent, or for mesne profits.

SEC. 512. No inquisition of forcible entry or forcible
detainer shall be taken at any time after two years from the
forcible entry or detainer complained of.

CHAPTER I X.

Probate of U '1' l I .5‘.

szc'r1o.\'— ; SI-2CTl0.\'-513. The manner of proving and contest- 5123. Continued.

ing wills: '1 Tenth.-—()n awxeal to Circuit Court.
First.--In what county wills are to all necessary parties to be summoned.
be proved and recorded. 1 and the trial to be by jury, if deSecond.-—Writ of error or appeal to manded.

Circuit Court, and thence to Supreme : Eleventh.--Probate Court may pro(Jourt. Time of prosecuting them. 1'00“ 0-V'P31't0 “N1 511011113751?Thig-a,_wi11 not to be received in » Twelfth.——Xon-residents.infants,and
evidence until probated, and the i l’€‘1’S01l-5 “Gt "W410 lmfties. mil)’ 0031‘
probate conclusive until suspended. . Wst “"3 Will '1.‘ bill in *3l1311(‘91‘Jr'Fourth.—(.7ourt may compel the pro- ' Thilwentill-—"Th° P1'0¢9€‘dil18~* i"
duction of the will, r , chancery to operate no further than
l|'irth.—-Manner of proving the will 3 is necessary to protect the rights of
of a non-resident. contestants.
Sixth.-\Vhenthedeposition ofasub- Fourtt-enth.———Rccor«1 of what was
scribing witness may be taken, proven in court to be evidence on the
Seventh.-Parties interested may be "ml in “*9 €‘l13N'°1'.‘' D1‘0i‘°9di"K5s11mmon¢(1_ 1*‘it‘teenth.--Wills to remain in the
Eighth.—Court may cause all inter- ('l91'k'5 Om“? ‘V3191’? 1'0C0“l¢*lested :0 be summoned, Sixteenth.--A will may be deposited
xiuu,___wm-ning order as to 33,. in the clerk's office for safe keeping.

sentees. Appointment of guardians
' for infants. etc.

SEC. 513. The manner of proving wills and contesting
their probate shall be as follows:

First.—Wills shall be proved before, and admitted to record
by the Probate Court of the county of the testator’s residence;
if he had no known place of residence in this State, and land is
devised, then in the county where the land, or the greater part
thereof lies; if no land is devised, then in the county where
he died, or that wherein his estate, or the greater part thereof
shall lie, or where there may be any debt, or demand owing to
him.
Second.—A11 appeal shall lie from the Probate Court to the
Circuit Court, and thence to the Supreme Court, upon every
order admitting a will to record or rejecting it. The Circuit
Court and Supreme Court shall try both law and fact, but the
Supreme Court shall not hear or adjudge any matter of fact
appertaining thereto other than such as may be certified from
the Circuit Court. The appeal to the Circuit Court shall be
taken within three years after rendering the order of probate,
or rejection in the Probate Court, and to the Supreme Court
within one year after final decision in the Circuit Court.

Tlu’rd.—No will shall be received in evidence until it has
been allowed and admitted to record by a Probate Court, and
its probate before such court shall be conclusive, until the same
is superseded, reversed or amended.

Four-tIz.—An y such court, on being informed that a person has
in his custody the will of a testator, may summon him, and by
proper process, compel him to produce the same.

F§;"th.—\Vhen a will of a non-resident of this State, relative
to an estate within this State, has been proved without the same,
an authenticated copy thereof, and the certificate of probate
thereof, may be offered for probate in this State. \Vhen such
copy is so offered, the court to which it is offered shall presume,
in the absence of evidence to the contrary, that the will was

duly executed and admitted to probate as a will of personalty
in the State or county of the testator’s domicil, and shall admit

such copy to probate as a will of personalty in this State. And
it’ it appears from such copy that the will was proved in the

foreign court of’ probate to have been so executed as to be a
valid will of lands in this State, by the law thereof, such copy
may be admitted to probate as a will of real estate.

Sz'zth.—\Vl1en any will or any such authenticated copy is
offered for probate, and a witness attesting the same, resides
out of this State, or though in the State, is in confinement
in another county or corporation under legal process, or
is unable from sickness, age or other infirmity, to attend
the court before which the same is offered, or resides at
a distance of more than fifty miles, such court may cause a
commission to be issued, anexed to the said will or copy, and
directed to any person authorized by law to take depositions in
other cases, to take his deposition. The deposition of such
witness shall be taken and certified as depositions are taken in
other cases, except that no notice need be given of the time

and place of taking the same, unless it is a case in which the
probate is opposed by some person who has made himself a
party. And the proof’ so given shall have the same effect as if
it had been given in the court, from which the commission
issued.

:5'eventh.—A person offering or intending to offer to a Probate Court a will for probate, may obtain from the clerk of
such court process directed to the proper ofiieer of any county.
requiring him to summon any person interested in such probate,
to appear at the next term of such court, and show cause why
the said will should not be admitted to record.

Eightlz.——The court to which a will is offered for probate, may
cause all persons interested in the probate to be summoned to
appear on a certain day.

NintI:.—Any person interested in such probate may be summoned or proceeded against by order of appearance, and to any
person so interested who is an infant or of unsound mind, a
guardian ad Zitem, may be assigned as in other cases.

Tenth.—When the proceeding is taken to the court, all
necessary parties shall be brought before the court; and upon
the demand of any one of them, a jury shall be empaneled to
try which or how much of any testamentary paper produced is,

or is not the last will of the testator. If no juryjae demanded,
the court shall determine that question, and the final decision
given shall be a bar to any other proceeding to call the probate
or rejection of the will in question—subject to the right of
appeal or writ of error to the.Supreme Court, as hereinbefore
named; but nothing in this section shall preclude a court of
chancery from its jurisdiction to impeach such iinal decision,
for such reason as would give it jurisdiction over any other
judgment at law.

Eleventh.—A Probate Court may, however, without sun1- .

moning any party, proceed to probate and admit the will to
record or reject the same.

Twey'th.—An y person interested, who, at the time of the final
decision in the Circuit Court, resided out of this State, and
was proceeded against by order of appearance only, without
actual appearance or being personally served with process, and
any other person interested who was not a party to the proceed-.
in gs by actual appearance or being personally served with.
process, may, within three years after such iinal decision in theCircuit Court, by a bill in chancery. impeach the decision and
have a retrial of the question of probate; and either partyshall be entitled to a jury for the trial thereof. An infant, not
a party, shall not be barred of such proceedings in chancery
until twelve months after attaining a full age.

Thz’rteenth.—But no such proceeding in chancery for establishing or avoiding a will, shall operate further than is necessary
to the rights of such infant, non-resident, or other party, or
otherwise affect the rights of any other person interested in
the probate.

Fourteenth.—The record of what is proved or deposed in
court by witnesses, on the motion to admit a will to record, and

any depositions lawfully taken out of court on such motion, of '

witnesses who cannot be produced at atrial afterward before a
jury, may, on such trial, he admitted as evidence to have such

weight as the jury shall think they deserve.
Fzjfteenth.—Every will or authenticated copy so admitted to
record by any court, shall be recorded by the clerk thereof and.

remain in his.oiiiee, except during such time as the same may
be carried to another court under subpena duces tecum.

Sz'2:teentIz.—A will may be deposited by the person making
it, or any one for him, with the clerk of the Probate Court of
the county of his residence, for safe keeping, upon payment of_
a fee of one dollar to the clerk who shall receive, keep, and
deliver the same according to the directions on a sealed envelope. If there are no such directions, or the party entitled
does not apply, the will shall be handed to and opened by the
next or some succeeding Probate Court, after the death of the
testator, and there retained for probate.

CHAPTER X.

On the Settlement of .5lecou.nts of Personal ]i’cpreseutative.s'..
Guarrlicms, Committees of Idiots and Lunatics, and
Trustees in the Probate Court.

sl!C:r1oN- st-:C'nos—

5l4. Their aeeount.~t to be settled as pre- New evidence in court- must be reseribecl in this chapter: a ulueed to writing. Settlements primu
“'53--PT"l’3t9 Judge to make Seine’ facie evidence. Notice must be given
ments. His compensation. Ifiudxe | to those interested who reside in the
(330003 80$, the clerk may make ‘.110 I (-_0unt.v_ \\'itne55(§5 1113)’ be sun}.
>'3“101“9M- Judge "'3." 1N‘P0lM 3 i moned and attenclam-e coerced. May
="3“di08 °0““i|l'»‘5i0l| *0 90W0- ’ adjourn from time to time: may inSecoml.—--In making settlement he t(.,.,.ogate nd“cim.y on 0Mh_ X0 e,.i_
‘"83’ “E31” 9V'm°"C9= mus‘ 1'9d1'°‘3 deuce presnincd except that reverbal evidence to writing. To pm-te.|_

allow no credit without evidence.
His reports must show the debts and
credits. and the vouchers and evidence to sustain them. Report to lie
over one term for exceptions. I!‘ no
exceptions, report to be recorded, it‘
a rproved. On exceptions, report
may be altered. \'ouchers to be filed515. Trustees may settle in counties where
«leecl or will is recorded.

SEC. 514. The accounts of personal representatives,.

guardians, committees of idiots and lunatics, may be settled in

the manner and by the mode of proeeedin g hereinafter provided::

First.—The Judge of the Probate Court shall make settlements with personal representatives and guardians in his
county. He shall be allowed two dollars and fifty cents for
each settlement. If the same occupies him more than one day,
then two dollars and fifty cents per day, to be paid out of the
estate settled. It‘, in any case, the judge cannot make such
settlement with propriety, then the county clerk of the county
may make the same. If he cannot act with propriety, the judge
may appoint some discreet person, not of kin to either party,
to make the settlement. The judge may, if he thinks proper,
appoint a standing commissioner to make such settlement.

Second.—It shall be the duty of the Probate Judge of each
county, when called upon by a personal representative or guardian, or committee, or any person interested, to state and settle
the accounts of such fiduciary. He shall have power to hear
testimony on such settlement in support or opposition to any
item. He must reduce to writing all verbal evidence adduced
before him. He is in all cases to be governed by law and justice, and shall give no credit to a tiduciary for disbursements
or for services without evidence to justify the same. His
report, in writing, he shall return to the county clerk of the
county. His report shall show the result, giving items of debit
and credit, and he shall return therewith, all vouchers and evidence adduced before him on the settlement. The clerk shall
indorse on the report the time of filing the same, and it shall
lay over one term for exceptions, to be filed by any person
interested. If no exceptions are filed by the second term of
the court, the report shall, if approved, be recorded. If exceptions are taken, other evidence besides that reported may be
heard, and the court shall, upon the whole case, alter or amend
the report and order it to be recorded, or so order it without
altering or amending, as shall appear right and legal. The
vouchers accompanying the report shall not be recorded, but
must be carefully kept on file in the clerk's office. Any new
evidence given in court must be reduced to writing and filed with
report. Settlement so made and recorded shall be prima facie

evidence between the parties interested. Notice of the time

and place of such settlement must be given to all parties interested, if resident in the county. Any fiduciary failing to settle
when so notiiied, without good excuse, shall, on notice thereof,
be fined by the County Court twenty dollars. Witness may
be summoned at the instance of either party, to give evidence
before the judge on the settlement, or on the trial of exceptions
by the court, and their attendance may be coerced by attachment and fine. In making settlements the judge may adjourn
from day to day, as long as the business requires it. He may
interrogate personal representatives and guardians, on oath,
touching any matter drawn in question in making a settlement,
and their statements, when so interrogated, must be reduced to

writing and returned with the report. No evidence shall be

presumed to have been given on a settlement except such as is
reported.

SEC. 515. The accounts of trustees may be settled in
the same manner, and the settlement shall have the same effect
as prescribed in regard to the settlements of the iiduciaries
named in the last Section. The Probate Court of the county
in which the deed or will creating the trusts is recorded,‘ shall
have the jurisdiction of making the settlements.

CHAPTER XI.

Writs of J! cmdamus and Prohibition.

91,-c1-1o_\'_ 8BC'l'lON—

51!! Writs of mandamus and of prohibi- 519- Mlmtlamlls 11831180tion obtained on motion, made on
petition, and notice and answer.

511'. The court to decide all question. The
granting or refusing the writ final.

518. Temporary preventive orders to be
made.

620. The State may appeal without security.
521. Prohibition deiined.

SEC. 516. Writs of mandamus, except where used by a
court, for enforcing its judgments or orders, and writs of prohibition, shall be obtained by motion, and prosecuted in the

manner provided in the “Chapter of Summary Proceedings,”

except that the applicant shall file a petition wherein he shall

‘state the cause and ground for his application, before giving

notice of his motion, to which the party against whom the
mandamus or prohibition is sought, shall file an answer, wherein
he shall state the reason why the writ should not be granted,
which ans\ver shall be filed at or before the time fixed for
making the motion.

SEC. 517. The court shall hear and decide all questions
of law or fact arising in the motion, and the granting or
refusing of the writ shall be the final order in the motion.

SEC. 518. During the pendency of the motion, the court
or judge in vacation, may make temporary orders for preventing damages or injury to the applicant until the motion is
decided.

SEC. 519. The writ of mandamus, as treated of in this chapter, is an order of a court of competent and original jurisdiction, commanding an executive or ministerial oilicer to perform an act, or omit to do an act, the performance or omission
_of which is enjoined by law, and is granted on the motion of
the party aggrieved, or of the State, when the public interest
is affected.

SEC. 520. Where the interest, rights, or claims of the
State are affected by the final order on an application for a writ
of mandamus, the attorney general may prosecute an appeal
without any security whatever.

SEC. 521. The writ of prohibition is an order from a
Circuit Court to an inferior court of limited jurisdiction, prohibiting it from proceeding in a matter out of its jurisdiction.

CHAPTER XII.

For Repealing‘ or Vacatirzg‘ Chczmters. and }’reren.tin.6 the
’ ’ I v o 5 ‘
lsmymflon of an. ();7z.ce, or I'ra/10712.9(’.

~.~'z'cr10.\‘—
.":“:2. Action at law to be brought.
522. To vacate a charter, the action must
be in the name of the State.

' SEC'l‘l0.\'—527. When by the Attorney General.

 

528. A person holding an office aftera forfeiture. is a usurper.

529. What judgment to be render;-cl
against nsnrper.

524. Actions to vacate certain charters
only to be brought by order of the
legislature.

525. Action to deprive usnrper of an office
or franchise, may be in the name of
the State, or party entitled.

526. When the duty of Prosecuting .\ttor- I
ney to institute action. ' I

530. How fees received by usurper in be
recovered.

531. Plezulings only to be \'L‘l‘lll(‘(l in actions by individuals.

SEC. 522. In lieu of the writs of seire facias and
qua warranto, or of an information in the nature of a quo warranto, actions by proceedings at law may be brought to vacate
or repeal charters, and prevent the usurpation of an office or

franchise. _
SEC. 523. The action to repeal or vacate a charter shall

be in the name of the State, and brought and presented by the
attorney general, or under his sanction and direction, by an
attorney for the State.’

SEC. 524. In the cases of municipal corporations, banks,
railroad and turnpike road companies, the action to vacate or
repeal their charters, shall only be instituted by order of the

legislature, except where otherwise expressly provided.
SEC. 525. Whenever a person usnrps an ofliee or franchise to which he is not entitled by law, an action by proceedings at law may be instituted against him, either by the State
or the party entitled to the ofliee or franchise, to prevent the
usurper from exerci+ing the otiiee or franchise.

SEC. 526. It shall be the duty of the several prosecuting
attorneys to institute the actions mentioned in this chapter,

against all persons who have or shall usurp county oilices or
franchises, where there is no other person entitled thereto, or
the person entitled fails to institute the same for three months

after the usurpation.

SEC. 527. For usurpation of other than county offices,
or franchises, the action by the State shall be instituted and
prosecuted by the attorney general.

SEC. 528. A person who continues to exercise an office
after having committed an act, or omitted to do an act, the
commission or omission of which, by law, created a forfeiture
of his office, shall be subject to be proceeded against for a usurpation thereof.

SEC. 529. \Vherc a person is adjudged to have usurped
an office or franchise, he shall be deprived thereof by the judgment of the court, and the person adjudged entitled thereto,
reinstated therein ; but no one shall be adjudged entitled thereto
unless the action is instituted by him. And the court shall
have power to enforce its judgment, by causing the books and
papers and all other things pertaining to the office or franchise,
to be surrendered by the usurper, and by preventing him from
further exercising or using the same, and may enforce its 01'ders by fine and imprisonment, until obeyed.

SEC. 530. Where the usurper has received fees and
emoluments arising from the office or franchise, he shall be liable therefore to the person entitled thereto, who may claim the
same in the action brought to deprive him of the office or franchise, or in a separate action. If no one be entitled to the
Ofiice or franchise, the same may be recovered by the State and
paid into the public treasury.

SEC. 531. The pleadings in the actions named in this chapter, are not required to be verified by affidavit, unless prosecuted by a private individual.

CHAPTER XIII.

Proceedings for the Sale of the Real Property of Infants.
Jlarried Women, and Persons of Unsound Mind.

$1-:c'r1e.\‘— 8201103532. No security to be required of husband 534. How city and town lots, and lands
when wife is of sound mind, of full highly improved, new by joint gen.
age. and desires no reinvestment. ants. etc., may be sold.

.533. Sale of land of persons of unsound 5'35. Where It sale of land shall be deemed
mind. when not necessary 30 DRY in contravention of adeed or will.
debts, or for his maintenance. Sales 533_ proceedings where mud is held by 3
where persons of unsound mind are t,-u5g,c9_

joint tenants with others. (

SEC. 532. No security shall be required of the husband,
upon the sale of the real property of his wife, where she is of
sound mind, over the age of twenty-one years, and upon privy
examination before the judge, or a commissioner by him appointed, requests that no order be made for the investment of
the proceeds of the sale.

SEC. 533. The land of a person of unsound mind may
be sold by the order of the circuit court, or other court of equal
equitable jurisdiction, though not necessary for the payment of
his debts, or for his maintenance, where it shall appearFirst.—That the person of unsound mind has a wife or children.

Second.—That this unsoundness of mind is continued and
and incurable.

T}u°rd.—That his estate is more than sufficient to pay his
debts and maintain him.

Fourth.—That the sale will be beneficial to his estate, and
prospectively beneficial to his wife and children.

Fifth.-—That his wife and children being made parties to
the proceeding, in proper person, if of full age, or by their
guardians, if infants, consent to such sale as beneficial to them
by their answers, which shall be sworn to by their guardians.

SEC. 534. The land of a person of unsound mind, held‘
jointly, with another, or others, though not necessary for the
payment of the debts of said person, or for his or her maintenance, may be sold by the order of the circuit court, or a court
of equal equitable jurisdiction, where it shall appear to the court,
from aiiidavits, depositions, or other legal evidence, that the interest of such other joint owner, or owners, would be advanced
thereby, and the interest of said person of unsound mind would
not be injuriously affected thereby; and the proceeds of the sale
shall be disposed of in the same manner as the proceeds of real

- estate of luuatics now authorized by law to be sold.

SEC. 535. Where town or city lots, or land outside of a
town or city, but having upon it a building of more value than
the land, shall be held by or in trust for coparceners, joint tenants, or tenants in common, some of whom are infants, or persons of unsound mind, the circuit court, or other court of similar jurisdiction, may, upon the complaint of a part of such
owners, against the others, or of the trustee against such owners, or of the owners against the trustee, and upon its being
proven that a division of such land would materially impair its
value, order a sale thereof, and the division of the proceeds
among those entitled. Before such sale is ordered, the court
shall appoint some suitable persons to take care of the interests
of the infants, or person of unsound mind; and the shares of
such infants, or person of unsound mind, shall not be paid by
the purchaser, but remain a lien upon. the land, bearing interest, until they become capable in law of receiving their respective shares, or until statutory guardians shall be appointed for
the infants, or committees for persons of unsound mind, or the
infants shall become married, and such guardians, committees,
or husbands, giving bond as required by law.

SEC. 536. The sale of land of infants, persons of unsound mind, or married women, shall not be deemed to be
prohibited, as being in contravention of the deed, will, or contract under which" they hold, unless a sale is expressly forbidden by such deed, will or contract.

SEC. 537. .When the legal title of land is held by a trustee, he shall be a party to the proceedings for their sale, and in
all other respects the proceedings for the sale of land, held in
trust for infants, married women, and persons of unsound

mind, shall be the same as where they hold the legal title, except that the trustees shall give bond and security, instead of
the guardian, committee or husband, where the proceeds of
sale are to go into the hands of such trustee.

CHAPTER XIV.

.1

Proceedings for the division of land and the allotment of
Dower in the Probate Court.

1» :cr1ox— 8EC'l‘l0-"538. Petition to be filed; what it shall concontain.

339. When it stands for hearing and decision.

540. Guardians. Committees and husbands
to be parties.

541. A party may contest by answer, and
proceedings may be removed in the

542. When removed, the original papers,
to be filed in the Circuit Court.

543. Parties may be constructively summoned.

544. Court, after trial, may order division
or alotment of (lower.

545. Report may be contirmed or set aside546. Deeds to be made on division of land.

54?. Costs to be apportioned.

iiim""' Comt‘ 518. No verification of pleading.

SEC. 538. Any person desiring adivision of land, held
in joint tenancy, in common or in eoparcenary, or an allotment
of dower, by the Probate Court, shall file in said court, or in
the clerk's office thereof, in vacation, :1 written petition, in
which a description of the property, the names of those having
an interest in it, and the amount of such interest, shall be
briefly stated in ordinary language, with a prayer for the division or allotment, and thereupon all persons interested in the
property, who have not united in the petition, shall be summoned to appear and answer the petition on the first day of
the next term of the court.

SEC. 539. Upon such a petition, by all interested in the
property, being filed, or upon a summons being served upon
all who have an interest in the property, and who have not
united in the petition ten days before commencement of the
term, the Probate Court may make an order for the division or

the allotment of the dower, according to the rights of the parties, by commissioners appointed according to law.

SEC. 540. The statutory guardian of an infant, committee of a person of unsound mind, and husband of a married
woman, may file or unite in the petition, in the names of, and
in conjunction with such infant, person of unsound mind, or
married woman, and if the petition is filed against infants,
married women, or persons of unsound mind, the guardian,
committee, or husband, may appear and defend for them and
protect their interests; and if they do not, the court shall appoint some discreet person for that purpose.

SEC. 541. If any person summoned, as provided in the
last three sections, desires to contest the rights of the petitioners, or the statements in the petition, he shall do so by a written answer, and the questions of the law and fact thereupon
arising shall be tried and determined by the Probate Court, or
the case, on the motion of either party, shall be removed into
the Circuit Court for trial.

SEC. 542. Upon such removal being ordered, the clerk
of the Probate Court shall deliver to the clerk of the Circuit
Court the petition, summons, answer, and other papers dled
therewith, and a copy of the order of removal, whereupon the
case shall be placed upon the common docket, and be tried and
decided as an action by proceedings at law, but all questions of
law and fact shall be tried and determined by the court.

SEC. 543. Parties interested may be constructively summoned, as provided in Title IV, Chapter II, Article II, of this
Code, either in the Probate or Circuit Court.

SEC. 544. The Circuit Court, upon the case being tried
and decided, may order the division or allotment of dower, according to the rights of the parties.

SEC. 545. Upon a report of the division or allotment of
dower, by the commissioners appointed for that purpose, being
returned, either in the Probate or Circuit Court, su/ch court
may confirm or set aside the report, or remand it to the commissioners for correction.

SEC. 546. On the confirmation of the report of the division of lands, the commissioners, or some commissioner appointed for the purpose, shall make a deed, or deeds of partition, conveying to each the land allotted to him in severalty,
which shall be approved by the court and recorded as other

deeds. '
SEC. 547. The costs of the division and allotment shall

be apportioned among the partiesin the ratio of their interests,
and the costs arising from any contest of fact or law, shall be

paid by the party adjudged to be in the wrong.
SEC. 548. No verification shall be required to the petition or answer.

TITLE XI.

REVIVOR OF ACTIONS.

Sl-2C'i‘I0.V- SECTION549. Where the right of action survives, 558. On death of defendant, may he re»
death of a party does not stop the ac- vived against his personal represention. tatives.

550. In what cases the cause can be decid- 559. On death of defendant in an action
ed between remaining parties, where for land, to be revived against his
the right of action does not survive. heirs or devisees.

551. Actions may be revived after the 560. No order of revivor against personal
death of the party. representatives until six months after

552. The action revived hy order of court. qnalitlcation.

553. The order may he made on the motion 561. One year allowed to revive action
of either party, or their representa- against personal representatives of a
tives, defendant.

554. The order to he served on opposite 562. When theorder to reviveinthenames
party, or the representatives, unless of personal representatives of plainmade by consent. tin‘ must be made.

563. If the time is passed for a revivor,
the action may be stricken from the
docket.

564. Defendant may h a v e the a c t i o n
stricken from the docket for failure

. to revive at any time after ten days’

(557. On death of plaiutin‘, the action to be ‘ notice.

revived in the names of those_to whom | 565. The action stands for trial at the term

the right of action passes. ‘, it is revived.

325. If ten days’ notice he given of the motion, the order is for an immediate
revivor. .

556.1):-der of revivor may he ('0ll§tI'llC- ,
tively served. '

SEC. 549. Where there are several plaintifffs or defendants in an action, and one of them dies, or his powers as personal representative cease, if the right of action survives to or

against the remaining parties, the action may proceed, the
death of the party, or the cessation of his powers, being
stated on the record.

SEC. 550. Where one of several plaintiffs or defendants
dies, or his powers as personal representative cease, if the cause
of action does not admit of survivorship, and the court is
of opinion that the merits of the controversy can be properly
determined, and the principles applicable to the case fully settled, it may proceed to try the cause as between the remaining
parties; but the judgment shall not prejudice any who were
not parties at the time.ot' the trial.

SEC. 551. \Vhere one of the parties to an action dies, or
his powers as personal representative cease before the judgment, if the right of action survives in favor of or against his
representative or successor, the action may be revived and proceed in their names.

SEC. 552. The revivor shall be by an order of the
court, that the action be revived in the names of the representatives, or successor of the party who died, or whose powers
ceased, and proceed in favor of or against them.

SEC. 553. The order may be made on the motion of the
adverse party, or of the representatives or successor of the
party who died, or whose powers ceased, suggesting his death
or the cessation of his powers, which, with the names and
capacities of his representatives, or successor, shall be stated in
the order.

SEC. 554. If the order is made by the consent of the
parties, the action shall forthwith stand revived; and if not
made by consent, the order shall be served, in the same manner as a summons, upon the party adverse to the one making
the motion. And at the first term, commencing not less than
ten days after such service, the party on whom it is made, may
show cause against the revivor; and, if snfiicient cause is not
then shown, the cause shall stand revived.

SEC. 555. If ten days’ notice has been given to the representatives or successor of the party who died, or whose

pewers ceased, of the motion by the adverse party, where the

motion is by such representatives or successor, and due return
is made of the service of the notice, the court may, if sutlieient cause is not shown to the contrary, make an order reviving the action in the names of such parties; whereupon, the
action shall stand revived. "

SEC. 556. Where it appears to the court, by the affidavit of the plaintifff, that the representatives of the defendant,

or any of them, in whose name the action is ordered to be re- '

vived, are non-residents of this State, or have left the same to
avoid the service of the order, or have been absent therefrom
four months, or so conceal themselves that the order cannot be
served upon them, or that the name of the heirs of the defendant against whom the action is ordered to be revived, or some
of them, are unknown to the at‘f1ant, an order may be made by
the court warning such representatives or unknown heirs to appear on the first day of its next term, and show cause why the
action should not be revived against them. The parties so
warned shall be deemed constructively served with a copy of
the order of revivor,‘ ten days before the term at which they
are warned to appear; and, if sufficient cause is not shown to
the contrary, the action shall, at that term, stand revived.

SEC. 557. Upon the death of a plaintifff in an action, it
may be revived in the names of his representatives, to whom
his right has passed. Where his right has passed to his personal representative, the revivor shall be in his name; where
it has passed to his heirs, or to his devisees, who could support
the action if brought anew, the revivor may be in their name.

SEC. 558. Upon the death of a defendant in an action,
wherein the right, or.any part thereof, survives against his
personal representatives, the revivor shall be against him ; and
it may also be against the heirs or devisees of the defendant,
or both; and where one year has elapsed after the death of
the defendant, and no person has qualined as his personal representative, the action may be revived, and proceed against
his heirs or devisees, or both.

SEC. 559. Upon the death of a defendant, in an action
for the recovery of realproperty only, or which concerns only

his rights, or claims to such property, the action may be re_ vived against his heirs or devisees, or both, and an order therefore may be forthwith made in the manner directed in the preceding sections of this Title.

SEC. 560. An order to revive an action against the personal representative of ‘I defendant, or against him and the
heirs or devisees of the defendant, cannot be made, unless by
consent, until after six months from the qualification of the
pers )nal representative.

SEC. 561. An order to revive an action against the representatives, or successor of a defendant shall not be made,
without the consent of such representative or successor, unless
in one year from the time it could have been first made.

SEC. 562. An order to rev.ve an action in the names of
the representatives. ornsuecessor of a plaintifff, may be made
forthwith, but shall not be made without the consent of the
defendant after the expiration of one year from the time the
order might have been first made; except that, where the defendant shall also have died or his powers have ceased in the
meantime, the order of revivor on both sides may be made in
the period limited in the last section. '

SEC. 563. When it appears to the court by affidavit that
either party to an action has been dead, or where he sues or
is sued as a personal representative, that his powers have
ceased for a period so long that the action cannot be revived
in the names of his representatives, or survivor, without the
consent of both parties, it shall order the action to be stricken
from the docket.

SEC. 564. At any term ot' the court succeeding the
death of the plaintifff, whilst the action remains on the docket,
the defendant having given to the plaintifff's proper representatives, in whose name the action might be revived, ten days’
notice of the application therefore, may have an order to strike
the action from the docket, and for costs against the estate of
the plaintifff, unless the action is forthwith revived.

SEC. 565. When by the provisions of the preceding
section, an acti m stands revived, the trial thereof shall not be

TITLE XII.

PROCEEDINGS TO REVERSE, \'.\(JA'l'E Oll MODIFY JU[)G‘.\IEN'l‘.5’.

sr.c'r10.\'— st-:c'rto.\‘566. Supreme Court, or Court in which the 513. I u what cases the proceedings to rejudgment is rendered, may reverse or verse or modify a judgment must be
modify it. loy petition.

567. The Supreme Court. for errors appear- 514. (‘audition on which a rcver-al or moding in the record. i itlcatiou is made.

568. Proceedings by appeal. 575. Grounds relied on to open the judg569. Clerical misprision not a ground of ment. to be tirst tried. .
reversal. 576. Party seeking to vacate a judgment

510. Rendering judgment prematurely, a may obtain an injunction.

clerical misprisiou.

.511. Causes for which a court may reverse
or vacate a judgment.

572. Mi.-'-prision corrected on motion in
same court. l

577. Where Judgment is rendered prematurely, it may be suspended without
zt vulid Ilcfeusc.

 

SEC. 566. A judgment rendered, or final order made in
the circuit court, may be reversed, vacated, or modified, either
by the Supreme Court, or by the court in which the judgment
was rendered, or order made.

SEC. 567. A judgment or final order may be reversed
or modified by the Supreme Court, for errors appearing in the
record.

SEC. 568. The proceedings, to obtain such reversal, or
modification, shall be by appeal, prosecuted as prescribed by
Jaw.

SEC. 569. A misprison of the clerk shall not be a ground
for an appeal, until the same has been presented and acted
upon in the circuit court.

SEC. 570. Rendering judgment before the action stood
for trial, according to the provisions of this Code, shall be
deemed a clerical misprision.

SEC. 571. The court in which a judgment or final order
has been rendered or made, shall have power, after the expiration of the term, to vacate or modify such judgment or order,

Fz'rst.—By granting a new trial for the cause, and in the
manner prescribed in section 375.

Second.—By a new trial granted in proceedings against defendants constructively summoned, as prescribed in Chapter I,
of Title X.

Third. For misprisions of the clerk.

Fou-rth.—For fraud practiced by‘ the successful party in the
obtaining of the judgment or order.

F2’/”th.—For erroneous proceedings against an infant, married woman, or person of unsound mind, where the condition»
of such defendant does not appear in the record, nor the error
in the proceedings.

' ‘Sz'zth.—For the death of one of the parties before the judgment in the action. ,

Seventh.—For unavoidable casualty or misfortune preventing
the party from appearing or defending.

E1'ghth.—F0l‘ errors in a judgment, shown by an infant in
twelve months after arriving at full age, as prescribed in section 423.

SEC. 572. The proceedings to correct misprisions of the
clerk, shall be by motion, upon reasonable notice to the adverse party, or his attorney in the action. The motion to vacate
a judgment because of its rendition before the action regularly
stood for trial, can be made only in the first three days of the
succeeding term.

SEC. 573. The proceedings to vacate or modify the judgment or order, on the grounds mentioned in Subdivisions IV,
V, VI, VII and VIII, of section 571, shall he by complaint,
verified by atiidavit, setting forth the judgment or order, the
grounds to vacate or modify it, and the defense to the action,
if the party applying was defendant. On the complaint, a

summons shall issue and be served, and other proceedings had
as in an action by proceedings at law.

SEC. 574. A judgment shall not be vacated on motion
or complaint until it is adjudged that there is a valid defense
to the action in which the judgment is rendered, or, if the
plaintifff seeks its vacation, that there is a valid cause of action;
and where a judgment is modified, all liens and securities obtained under it shall be preserved to the modified judgment.

SEC. 575. The court may first try and decide upon the
grounds to vacate or modify a judgment or order, before trying or deciding upon the validity of the defense or cause of
action.

SEC. 576. The party seeking to vacate or modify a judgment or order, may obtain an injunction suspending proceedings, on the whole, or part thereof, which injunction may be
granted by the court, or any officer authorized to grant injunctions, upon its being rendered probable, by affidavit or by
exhibition of the record, that the party is entitled to have such
judgment or order vacated or modified.

SEC. 577. \Vhere the judgment was rendered before the.

action stood for trial, the suspension may be granted as provided in the last section, although no valid defense to the action is
shown ; and the court shall make such orders concerning the
execution to be issued on the judgment, or on any stay or
forthcoming bond taken under it, as shall give to the defendant the same rights of delay that he would have had if the
judgment had been rendered at the proper time.

TITLE XII].

EVIDENCE .
I’AR'l- I 1-nu-._
1. Production of evidence. } 3. Pcrpctuation of evidence.
i

2. Competency of eviderrce.

PART I.

Production of Evirlcnce.

CIIAI‘Tl£B— . C11 AFTER1. By whom to be produced. ! 3. Mode of taking the testimonyof wit2. Means of production. . X nesscs.

CHAPTER I.

By whom to be Producer] .

SEC'I'ION- . SECTION-—

57S. Party holding amrmative must prove 580. Writing executed by one of the parit, ties, referred to and filed by opposite
579. On whom is the burden of proof in party, may be read without proof.

the action. unless denied by affidavit.

 

SEC. 578. The party holding the afllrmative of an issue
must produce the evidence to prove it.

SEC. 579. The burden of proof in the whole action lies

on the party who would be defeated, if no evidence were given
on either side.

SEC. 580. Where a writing, purporting to have been
executed by one of the parties, is referred to in, and filed with,
a pleading, it may be read as genuine against such party, unless he denies its genuineness by affidavit before the trial is
begun. ’

CHAPTER II.

.71! cans of Production.

S1-2CTl0N— .
581. The subpena, its object and form.
582. The clerk to issue subpenas for wit8ICTIO.\'—

590. Extent of punishment of witness for
failure to attend, and refusal to tesnesses at request of parties.

5&3. Otilcer authorized to take depositions
may issue subpenas.

584. How a subpena. is served.

586. By whom a subpcna may be served.

586. Witness cannot be compelled to attend court beyond adjoining county,
nortogive his deposition out of his
county.

58?. Disobedience of a subpena may be
punished as a contempt.

 Witness liable to costs of continuance
and damages, for failure to attend
where his mileage and attendance
have been tendered. ,

:8». Warrant of arrest maybe issued for
:x witness for failure to attend.

Sserxou 581.

tify.

591. Witness imprisoned by an onieer authorized to take depositions, may be
released by probate judge.

.:92. Warrant of commitment must specify
the offense, and be directed to the
sheriff.

593. Persons imprisoned, except on conviction for felony, may be ordered to
be produced for oral examination in
the county.

594. While the prisoner-’s deposition is being taken, he is in the control of the
otllcer.

595. Witness not to be sued out of his
county. .

SEC. 581. The process by which the attendance of a

witness is required, is a subpena. It is a writ directed to the
sheriff, requiring him to summon the person named therein, to
attend at a particular time and place to testify as a witnessIt may, when the court, or judge‘ thereof, so directs, require
the witness to bring with him any book, writing, or other

thing under his control, which he is bound by law to produce
in evidence.

SEC. 582. Where the attendance of a witness is required
before the court, or on the trial of an issue ordered by it, or
before a commissioner directed to take evidence, the subpena
shall be issued by the clerk on the request of either party.

SEC. 583. Where the attendance of the witness is required for the purpose of giving his deposition, the subpena
shall be issued by an otlieer authorized to take the deposition.

SEC. 584. The service of the subpena is made by showing the original and stating the substance thereof to the ‘witness.

SEC. 585. A subpena Inay be served by the sheriff, coroner or any constable ofthe county, whose return thereof shall
be proofof the service; it may also be served by any person of
full age, whose affidavit indorsed thereon, shall be proof of the
service, or the witness may acknowledge service in writing on
the suhpena.

SEC. 586. A witness shall not be obliged to attend for
examination on the trial ofa civil action, except in the county
of his residence or an adjoining county, nor to attend to give
his deposition out of the county where he resides, or where
he may be when the subpena is served on him, requiring his
attendance within three days.

SEC. 587. Disobedience of a snbpena, or a refusal to be
sworn or to answer as a witness, or to subscribe an affidavit or
deposition when lawfully ordered, may be punished as a contempt of the court or officer by whom his attendance or testimony is required.

SEC. 588. \Vhere a witness is brought before a court for
contempt for disobeying asubpena, if_it be shown that be concealed himself, or otherwise intentionally evaded the service of
the. subpena, or being served, failed to attend without reasonable
cause, the court may summarily order him to pay to the party,
on whose behalf he was summoned, the costs occasioned to
him by the disobedience of the snhpena, not exceeding twenty

dollars, besides being liable for any damages occasioned. by
the failure to attend. '

SEC. 589. Where a witness fails to attend in obedience
toa subpena, or conceals himself or otherwise intentionally
evades the service of the subpena, the court, or officer before
whom his attendance was required, may issue a warrant for
arresting and bringing him before the court, or odicer, at a time
and place to be fixed in the warrant, to give his testimony, and
and answer for the contempt. If the warrant is not for immediately bringing the witness before the court, or officer, a
sum shall be fixed in which the witness may give bond with
surety for his appearance, and, if no sum is fixed by the court,
or officer, it shall be one hundred dollars.

SEC. 590. The punishment for the contempt mentioned
in Section 587, shall be by fine, not exceeding thirty dollars,
and imprisonment, not exceeding twenty-four hours. But in
case of the refusal to witness to testify or be sworn, or to give a
deposition, he shall continue to be imprisoned so long as he refuses; and, ifthe court finally adjourns before he submits, he shall
remain imprisoned until next term. The final disposition of
the case in which he so refuses, shall discharge him from imprisonment. . .

SEC. 591. A witness so imprisoned or fined by an officer
before whom his deposition is being taken, may apply to the
Probate Judge, who shall have power to discharge him if it
appears that his imprisonment is illegal.

SEC. 592. Every warrant of commitment to prison,
issued by a court or officer pursuant to this Chapter, must
specify particularly the cause of commitment; and every warrant to arrest or commit a witness, must be directed to the
sheriff of the county where he may be, and executed in the
same manner as process from the court.

SEC. 593. A person confined in any prison in this State,
for any other cause than a sentence for felony, may by order of
court, be required to be produced on oral examination in the

county where he is imprisoned; but in all other cases his examination must be taken by deposition.

he shall remain under the control of the officer having him in
custody, who shall afford reasonable facilities for the taking of
the deposition.

SEC. 595. A witness shall not be liable to be sued in a
county in which he does not reside, by being served with a
summons in such county while going, returning, or attending
in obedience to a subpena. 

CHAPTER III.

./Ilode of Taking‘ the Testimony of Witnesses.

ARTICLE— ARTICLE1. Amdavit. 8. General rules of examination.
:2. Deposition.
si_ic'rio.\'— ai:c'r1o.~.'— '
596. Three modes of taking testimony: 597. Amdavit delined.
1-‘irst---Anidavih 593. Deposition detlned.
Seoond—Depositi0n- 599. Oral examination defined.

'I‘hird.—Ora1 examination.

SEC. 596. The testimony of witnesses is taken in three
modes:

First.—By atiidavit. '

Second.—By deposition.

Thz'rd.—By oral examination.

SEC. 597. An aiiidavit is a written declaration under
oath, made without notice to the adverse party.

SEC. 598. A deposition is a written declaration under
oath, made upon notice to the adverse party for the purpose of
enabling him to attend and cross-examine; or upon written

‘ interrogatories.

SEC. 599. An oral examination is an examination in the
presence of the tribunal which is to decide the fact, or to act
upon it, the testimony being heard by the tribunal from the
lips of the witness. 

ARTICLE I .

Afjidavit.

slC‘!'XON— SECTION600. For what purpose an affidavit may be 604. It affidavit made by agent or attorney.
I‘ead- party may be required to verify in
601. In what cases an amant must be pro- person. _
duced for cross-examination. 605. Affidavit must be subscribed by am601 Before whom an aaidavit out of the ant, followed by the certincate of the
State must be made. officer.

ans. Before whom it must he made in this
State.

SEC. 600. An affidavit may be read to verify a pleading,
to prove the service of a summons, notice, or other process in an
action, to obtain a provisional remedy, a stay of proceedings,

or a warning order, or upon a motion, and in any other case
permitted by law. _

SEC. 601. Where a provisional remedy is granted upon
an affidavit, and a motion is made to discharge or vacate it,
the party against whom it is granted may, by written notice to
the party by Whom it Was obtained, or by an order or rule of
the court, require the production of the person who made the
affidavit for cross-examinatidn; ‘whereupon, the party notified
shall produce the afiiant within ten days before an officer
authorized to take depositions, at the time and place of which
he shall give the adverse party three days’ notice. If the ailiant is not produced, his affidavit shall be suppressed; and if
produced, he may be examined by either party.

SEC. 602. An affidavit may be made out of this State
before a commission appointed by the Governor of this State
to take depositions, or before a judge of a court, mayor of a
city, notary public, or justice of the peace, whose certificate
shall be proof of the time and manner of its being made.

SEC. 603. An affidavit may be made in this State before
a judge of the court, justice of the peace, notary public, an
examiner, or clerk of a court. \Vhenever, by the provisions
of this Code, the affidavit of the plaintifff or defendant is required to verify a pleading, to obtain a warning order, a provisional remedy, ;n- any other order in an action, or on a motion
or proceeding therein, it may, unless otherwise expressed, be
made by the agent or attorney of the party, if the party is absent from the county, or is mentally incapable of taking an
oath, or is physically unable to attend before the court, or
officer, for the purpose of making the affidavit; in which case the
affidavit shall state the reason, and that the afliant is the agent
or attorney of the party.

SEC. 604. But whenever any such pleading shall be
verified by the agent or attorney of either party, for any of the
foregoingf reasons, except the mental incapacity ‘if the party,
the opposing partyniay make an aiiidavit that he does not believe that the party, whose agent or attorney veriiied such pleading or affidavit, can truthfully verify the same with his own
oath, and that the matters therein alleged are within the personal
knowledge of such party. Upon the filing of such affidavit, it
shall be the duty of the court to compel such party to verify
said affidavit or pleading in person, reasonable time therefore
being given. And on failure of such party to make the verification as aforesaid, it shall be the duty of the court to dismiss
the complaint, suppress the answef, reply or aiiidavit, and render judgment aceordingl y, unless amended pleadings or afiida—
davit shall be filed and properly verified by the party in person.

SEC. 605. Every affidavit shall be subscribed by the ailiant, and the certificate of the otiieer before whom it is made,
-shall he writtenseparately. following the signature of the afli ant.

ARTICLE ll.

])(2p0.wCtions.
SUBDIVISION- - sUnmv1sio.\'-1. When to be usml. ' 3. Manner of taking d\'p0~oli.l0ll~i.
2. Otucers al1tlI0i‘i/.('0l to take ‘l\‘,')'Jsl- 3 1. Exceptions to depositions.

tiona. l 5. Deposisi-ms to be used in other States

SUBDIVISION I.

H’/Len to be u.se(l..

I308. Witnesse.- not to be compelled to attend court when his deposition can
be used.

fIL'p0a'ItlU!l.~.
611. Depositions may he taken dc be-we mum.

8£C’!'l0N— [ SECTION.006. To be used in all equitable isstxes and l 609, (fuse; in which he may be comm,-1].»:
m0‘i01l-"- I to attend. though his deposition might
1307. Of certain persons to be used in all have been 1399.1,
trials. l 610. When parties may commence taking
4
l

SEC. 606. Depositions maybe used on the trial of all
issues, and upon all motions in actions by equitable proceeding, except where the court otherwise directs, on an issue tried
by a jury.

SEC. 607. They may be used on the trial of all ismcs in
any action in the f'o'.1owing cases:

First.-—VVhere the witness does not reside in the county
where the action is pending, or in an adjoining county, or is
absent from the State, or is in the military service of the Vnitcd
States, or of this State.

Second.——Where the witness is the Governor, Secretary of
State, Auditor or Treasurer of this State, a judge or clerk of a
court, a president, cashier, teller, or clerk of a bank, a practicing physician, surgeon, or lawyer, or keeper. officer or guard of
the penitentiary.

T/z2'rd.—\Vhere, from age, infirmity, imprisonment, the witness is unable to attend court, or is (lead.

Fourth.-—i\Vhere the witness resides thirty or more miles
from the place where the court sits in which the action is pending, unless the witness is in attendance on the court.

SEC. 608. A witness shall not be compelled to attend in
court for oral examination, where his deposition may be used,
unless he has failed, when duly summoned, to appear and give
his deposition.

SEC. 609. Where it is made to appear, by the atiidavit

of the party and the written statement of his attorney, that the

testimony of a witness is important, and that the just and

proper effect of his testimony cannot, in a reasonable degree, be
obtained without an oral examination before the jury, the court
may, at its discretion, order the personal attendance of the
witness to be compelled, although such witness may otherwise
be exempt from personal attendance by the provisions of this
Code.

SEC. 610. The plaintifff may commence taking depositions immediately after the service of the summons, and the
defendant after filing his answer.

SEC. 611. A party may take the deposition of any witness de bene esse, which may be used under the circumstances
prescribed in 607.

SUBDIVISION I I .

Officers authorized to take Depositions.

snc'r1o1s'- SECTION612. Examiners to be appointed in each 617. All depositions in the State to be
county. taken before an examiner, except in
613. Where the examiner’s oniee must be certain cases.
kept. 618. In excepted cases to be taken before a
614. Not more than three examiners’ omees judge, Justice. notary, or clerk.
to be in a county, unless majority of 619. The cause of its not being taken bethe bar in the county petition for fore an examiner tobe statedmore. 620. Examiner not bound to go out of his
615. Examiners may administer oaths in 03199an cases, as justice of the peuce_ 691. Before whom depositions out of the

616. In vacation. Judges may make tempo- State may be when‘

rary appointments.

SEC. 612. The circuit judges shall_ appoint at least‘two
examiners in each county of their respective districts, who, before acting, shall be sworn, in open court, to discharge faithfully and impartially the duties of their oiiiee.

SEC. 613. An examiner’s oiiiee shall be kept in or near
the county seat, and if there is more than one, the others
at such place as the court may direct.

SEC. 614. There shall not be more than three examiners’ oilices in any one county, unless a majority of the members of the bar, rcident in said county, shall, by a petition

filed in the Circuit Court, state that more examiners’ offices are
necessary to the convenient dispatch of business; whereupon
the judge may appoint more examiners and order more examiners’ offices to be kept, not exceeding one’ examiner and examiner’s office in each election precinct, except the county
seat, where two examiners’ oiiices may be kept for each precinct. The examiners shall hold their offices at the will of the
circuit judges of their respective counties.

SEC. 615. The examiners shall be authorized to administer oaths, and give certificates thereof in all cases in which
justices of the peace are so authorized.

SEC. 616. The judges in vacation may make temporary appointments of examiners by written orders signed by
such judge, and filed in the Circuit Court C1erk’s office, and
examiners so appointed, being qualified before such clerk, and
a certificate thereof indorsed on the order, shall remain in the
office until.the expiration of the next regular term of the Circuit Court.

SEC. 617. All depositions taken in this State to he used

in the courts thereof‘, shall be taken before an examiner, except,
F2'rst.—\Vhen an examiner cannot be obtained in the township in which the deposition is to be taken.

Second.—Where the witness is unable, from age, inlirmity, or
imprisonment, to attend at the examiner’s _ofIice, and the
examiner refuses to go to him.

Third.—Where all the examiners of the county are interested in the action.

SEC. 618. In all cases mentioned in the exceptions to
last section, the depositions may be taken before a judge of a
court, a justice of the peace, a notary public, or a clerk of a
court.

SEC. 619. Where a deposition is taken before any other
officer than an examiner, the cause of it being so taken shall be
made to appear by an accompanying affidavit.

SEC. 620. It shall not be the duty of an examiner to go
out of his oilice to take depositions, but he may take them at
any place in the county for which he is appointed.

SEC. 621. Depositions may be taken out of this State
before a commissioner appointed by the governor thereof, a.
judge of a court, a.j ustiee of the peace, mayor of a city, notary
public, or any other person empowered by a commission,
directed to him by consent of the parties, or by order of the
court.

TITLE

.Uan.m>r of 'I'rL/-.'in,_§ (1. I)e])o.s*iI.z'orz..

8E(3"t‘l().\'-- _ .sr.c'r1o.\-(3-11 May be taken on i|()H4'(_' or interrogw , 63:2. Howlong intaerrog:ctorie.~ must rennin
t()ri(-s'_ “ in e-lerk‘s «mice.

023. What the notice must contain.

62}. How the notice must he served.

6'25. What shall be deemed reasonable
notice.

L633. (‘lerk to i.~:~iue eo1mnission.~4 and
l
I
I
1521}. Cases In which the mkimz may be l
9
J
1

copies of the interrogatories.

t‘y'H.Ut1i(-crs to issue snbpena for witnesses
and compel their attendance.

635. (miner to decide all objections toque-~_
tions.

aalgonrned to another day and place.

13:17. When it may be adjourned to another
place on same day.

41-28. (‘auses oi‘ sueh adjournment. to he
provcn h_\'at'tidavit and accompanying deposition.

629. When opposite party may secure a
deposition, to be taken on interrog636. Statements of the \\'ii.Il(‘a:i to he writ.ten in officers presence by witness or
officer.

637. Who to be present when deposition in
taken on interrogatories.

i

} 638. What. shall be certined by (smear.

atorics. .
depositions to be taken on intermg- and ’“‘*“9‘1 to °1"“‘atorit-~.

640. Fees for taking depositiom.
641. Fees for .~ul)|)€‘II2tS and warra-is oi‘

onice, and notice given, cross int.er- .,,.,.,.s,

iiiil. [interrogatories to be filed in clerk's ‘
vogatories may be filed. i

SEC. 622. l)epositions shall be taken upon reasonable
notice to the adverse party, or upon interrogatories.

SEC. 623. The notice must be in writing, signed by the
party giving it, or his attorney, addressed to the party on whom
it is to be served, and specify the time and place ‘of taking the
deposition, and the action or proceeding in which it is to be
used.

SEC. 624. Wlnero the notice is to be given to the defendant, it may be served as the summons in the action is
authorized to be served.

SEC. 625. A notice shall be deemed reasonable that
allows one day for each thirty miles of distance which the
party will have to travel, and one day for preparation where
the distance is less than onehundred miles, and two days where
it is more. “There the distance exceeds iifty miles, and the
usual mode of travel for the whole or part of the distance is,
by steamboat, railroad cars, or other public conveyance, the
time ordinarily required by such mode of travel, with the days’
given for preparation, shall be deemed sufiicient in the notice.
\Vhen the distatm: is less than thirty miles, a notice which
gives to the party a reasonable opportunity to be present shall
he sufiicient. .

SEC. 626. VVherc a notice has been given to take a
deposition at any exaininer’s office, but if’ the attendance of the
witness cannot be produced, owing to his age, infirmity, or
imprisonment, the taking of the (l0p0_siti0n may be adjourned
to the next day, and to some other convenient place—-—a written
notice of which shall be posted upon the front door of the
examiner's office before noon of the day on which the deposition was to have been taken.

SEC. 627. 'Where a notice has been given to take a
deposition at an examiner's office, but from any cause not mentioned in the last Section, the deposition cannot be taken at
that office, an adjournment t.o the nearest convenient. place
shall be made, a written notice of which shall be posted upon
the front door of the examiner’s office for one hour before the
deposition is commeu<:~cd at the place to which the adjournment
is made.

SEC. 628. Where an ad_joni‘hment. has been made pursuant to either of’ the last two Sections, an affidavit as to the
cause thereof’, with a copy of’ the notice, certified by the
sheriff, constable, or examiner, or sworn by a private person to
have been posted upon the door, as therein directed, shall
accompany the deposition.

SEC. 629. A party to whom more than three days’
notice to take a deposition out of the State is given, may by
notice tothe adverse party, or his attorney, served in one day

after the service of the first notice, require the deposition to be

, taken upon interrogatories.

SEC. 630. The court, on motion of either party, may
permit depositions to be taken upon interrogatorles.

First.—Where the ascertainment of a fact or the stating of
an account is referred to a commissioner._

Sec-ond.—VVhere the party against whom the depositions are

l to be read is absent from the State, and has not appointed an

agent or attorney in the county where the action is pending,
known to the party taking the deposition.

Tlzz'rd.—Where the parties against whom the deposition is to

"be read are numerous, and have not designated agents, or

attorneys residing in the county, on whom the notice may be
served.

Fourtlz.—In cases where an infant, lunatic, or married woman
is a party, by the consent of the guardian, committee, or husband,

SEC. 631. The interrogatories shall be filed in the clerk's
olhce; and if the adverse party, or his agent, or his attorney, resides in the same county, notice thereof shall be given to either
of them; and while they remain in the clerk's. office, the adverse party may file cross-interrogatories. If cross-interrogatories are not filed, the clerk shall file the following:

First.—Are you directly or indirectly interested in this action, and, if interested, explain the interest you have?

Second.—Arc all your statements in the foregoing answers
made from your own personal knowledge; and if not, do your

answers show what are made from your personal knowledge,
and what from information, and the source of that information?
Th2'ra’.—State every thing you know concerning the subject
of this action favorable to either party?

SEC. 632. The interrogatories shall remain in the clerk’.~a
office fifteen days, or, if notice is served, as provided in the
last section, ten days’ after service, unless the cross-interrogations are sooner filed.

SEC. 633. After remaining the due length of time in
the clerk's office, one or more commissions, at the request of
the party, shall be issued by the clerk, with copies of the interrogatories and cross-interrogatories annexed, authorizing
the person to whom it may be directed, to examine the wit.
nesses on them—Which commission may be directed generally,

“to any officer authorized to take depositions, in or out of this '

State.”

SEC. 634. Upon filing, with an examiner, or other ofIicer authorized to take depositions, a notice duly served, or a
commission with interrogatories to take a deposition, it shall
be the duty of such officer to issue his subpena requiring the
witness, whose deposition is required, to appear, at a time and
place to be named in the subpena, for examination, and if the
witness fails to attend, after being duly summoned, the officer
may issue his warrant for arresting and bringing the witness
before him to give testimony, and answer for the contempt of
disobedience of the subpoena. ’ . '

SEC. 635. The officer before whom the deposition is
taken shall decide, summarily, all objections to questions, but
in matters of doubt, shall permit the questions to be answered,
noting the objection in the deposition. He shall have power

to prevent insulting questions being put to a witness, and to
stop a course of interrogation pursued unreasonably long, and
for more vexation and delay.

SEC. 636. The statement of the witness must be written, in the presence of the officer taking it, either by the
witness or the oilicer. '

SEC. 637. Where a deposition is taken upon interrogatories, neither party, nor his agent or attorney, shall be present
at the examination of the witness, unless "both parties are
present, or represented by an agent, or attorney, or unless the

opposite party, or his agent or attorney, has been seasonably
notiiied of the time and place of taking the depositions, or the

party attending has been notified by the opposite party to attend.

SEC. 638. The certificate of the oilicer shall state the

time and place of taking the deposition, that the witness was
duly sworn before he gave his testimony, and that his testimony was written, read to, and subscribed by him, in the presence of the officer; ‘and also state by whom it was written, and
which of the parties, in person, or by agent or attorney, was
present at the examination of the witness.

SEC. 639. VVhen the ‘depositions are completed, they
shall be scaled up by the officer, and directed to the clerk of
the court in which the action is pending, with a note showing
them to be depositions, and the style of the case in which they
were taken, and either delivered to the clerk, or mailed to him,
by the ofiiccr taking them; except depositions taken out of the
State, sealed and directed as above provided, may be delivered
to the party taking the same, his agent or attorney, who may
deliver them in the same manner, and with the same effect, as
if delivered by the officer taking them, providing that the person or persons conveying or delivering the depositions, take an
nath that the same have not been opened by him, or by any
other person, to his knowledge or belief’. Provided further, that
when the depositions are taken before an oiiicer of the county
in which the action is pending, they may be delivered by such
officer to the clerk or j nstice, without being sealed or directed.

SEC. 640. The fee allowed an officer for taking depositions shall be two dollars and fifty cents for each deposition,
and five cents per mile, for each mile that an examiner may
have to travel in going to and returning from the place of the
t.aking—the distance to be estimated from his office. But,

whatever is -the number of the depositions taken in one day
for the same party in any action, the fees therefore shall not exceed six dollars. And if the officer shall be engaged more than
one day in taking a deposition, he shall receive two dollars and
fifty cents per day for each day he may be engaged in taking
one deposition.

SEC. 641. For issuing a snbpena or warrant of arrest,
and for summoning or arresting the witnesses, the same fees
shall be paid as are allowed to clerks and slieiifis for similar


SUBDIVISION IV.

Exceptions to Depositions.

InIfl0N- ' sr:C'rIo2I—
IQ. All depositions to beopened and pub-  645. Court, if desired. must decide exceplished by clerk upon their filing, and ,1 tions before trial.
no deposition to he read unless filed  646. Errors of court waived, unless ex1

in the papers before trial. eepted to.
043. Exceptions must be written. , 647. The opening of the case to the jury,
644. Not regarded unless filed and noted ; commencement of jury trial.

of record before trial. 1

SEC. 642. All depositions shall be opened and published by the clerk at the time they are filed in his oilice, and
no deposition shall be read on a trial, unless, before the commencement thereof, it was filed with the papers of the case.

SEC. 643. Exceptions to depositions shall be in waiting,
specifying the grounds of objection, filed with the papers of
the ease, and noted on the record.

SEC. 644. No exceptions, other than the competency of
the witness, or to the relevancy or competency of the testimony, shall be regarded, unless filed and noted on the! record
before the commencement of the trial.

SEC. 645. The court, on the motion of either party,
shall decide upon the exceptions, before the commencement of
the trial.

SEC. 646. Errors of the court, in its decisions upon ex-r
ceptions to depositions, are ‘waived, unless excepted to.

SEC. 647. When the trial is by jury, the opening of the
case to the jury shall be deemed the commencement thereof.

SUBDIVISION V.

Depasitions to be used in other States.

seniox-— 3
ms. Mode of taking depositions as he used 
in other States. 3

SEC. 648. A party desiring to take depositions in this
State, to be used in judicial proceedings in other States, may

produce to a judge of a Probate Court, in the county where
the witnesses reside, a commission, authorizing the taking of
such depositions, on a notice duly served; whereupon, it shall
be the duty of the judge to issue a subpena requiring the Witnesses to attend at a specified time and place for examination;
and in case of their failure to attend or refusal to be sworn,
or to testify, they may be punished as provided in Section 590.

ARTICLE III.

General Rules of _ Examination.

:u:c'n0.~4—- SECTION649. Order in which proof is given on the 656. Evidence of good character inadmistrial, sible before general character has
&50. Court to exercise control over intcr- been impeached.

0 0 ‘
"°3’“'t‘°“ °t W‘t'”°5S°S'  657. Re-examination of witnesses.

651. Direct. and cross-examination.

652. What is a leading question, and by
whom it may be asked.

653. Party can not impeach. but may con- i 659. Persons present, though not sumtradict his own witness. nioned, may be compelled to testify.

651. How a witness may be impeached by 663
the adverse party. '

855. Before evidence of a mntradit-tery _
statement is admissible, witn ess “L W’it‘n39 -‘h°"""t° “'“'““°“ ““"”’°

must be questioned concerning statc- 5"°“'” to adverse party '
ment.

658. Witnesses may be examined out of
hearing of each other .

. Judge or juror may be examined as
Witness.

1

SEC. 649. The party who begins the case must ordinarily exhaust his evidence before the other begins. But the
order of proof shall be regulated by the court, so as to expedite
the trial and enable the tribunal to obtain a clear view of the
whole evidence.

SEC. 650. The court shall exercise a reasonable control

‘ over the mode of interrogation, so as to make it rapid, distinct,

as little annoying to the witness, and as effective for the extraction of the truth as may be; but, subject to this control, the
parties may put such legal and pertinent questions as they may
see fit. The court, however, may stop the production of further
evidence on a particular point, when the evidence upon it is
already so full as to preclude reasonable doubt. ’

SEC. 651. The examination of a witness by the party
producing him is the direct examination; the examination of
the samewitness upon the same matter, byithe adverse party,
is the cross-examination. The direct examination must becompleted before the cross-examination begins, unless the court
otherwise directs.

SEC. 652. A question that suggests to the witness the
answer which the examining party desires, is a leading question. On the direct examination, leading questions are not
allowed, except under special circumstances, making it appear
that the interests of justice require it. On cross-examination,
the adverse party may put leading questions ; but if he examines the witness on new matters, such examination is subject
to the same rules as the direct examination.

SEC. 653. The party producing a witness, is not allowed
to impeach his credit, by evidence of bad character, unless it is
in a case in which it was indispensiblc that the party should
produce him ; but he may contradict him by other evidence,

and by showing that he has made statements different from his
present testimony. '

SEC. 654. A witness may be impeached by the party
against whom he is produced, by contradictory evidence, by
showing that he has made statements different from his present
testimony, or by evidence that his general reputation for truth,
or immorality, renders him unworthy of belief, but not by evidence of particular wrongful acts, except that it may be shown,
by the examination of a witness, or record of a judgment, that
he has been convicted of felony.

SEC. 655. Before other evidence can be offered of the
Witness having made at another time a different statement, he
must be inquired of concerning the same, with the circum-'
stances of time, and persons present, as correctly as the examining party can present them ; and if it is in writing, it must
be shown to the witness, and he allowed to explain it.

SEC. 656. Evidence of the good character of a witness is
inadmissible until his general reputation has been impeached.

SEC. 657. A witness once examined, can not be reexamined as to the same matter, without leave of the court.
But he may be re-examined as to any new matter upon which
he has been examined by the adverse party. After the examination on both sides is concluded, the witness can not be recalled without leave of the court. _

SEC. 658. If either party requires it, the judge may exelude from the court room any witness of the adverse party,
not at the time under examination, so that he may not hear
the testimony of the other witness. °

SEC. 659. A person present before a court or judicial
officer, may be compelled to testify in the same manner as if
he was served with a subpena.

SEC. 660. The judge or juror may be called as a witness
by either party, but in such cases, it is in the discretion of the
court to suspend the trial and order it to take place before
another judge or jury; and where a party knows, at the time
the jury are empaneled, that a juror is to be called by him as
a witness, he shall then disclose it, and the juror shall be excluded from the jury.

SEC. 661. VVhenever a writing is shown to a witness, it
may be inspected by the adverse party, and, if proved by the
witness and allowed by the court, it must he read to the jury
before his testimony is closed; otherwise, it can not he read
unless the witness is recalled.

ARTICLE II.
Competency of lVitncsse.s.
sx<'r1o.\'-- ' sr:c'rxn.\'—

662. All persons competent except those 661. All other objections. go to that-1-em;
in next section. : of witness.

66?. Persons incompctc.nt— » I365. The party interrogating in equitable
First-Infamous. l proceedings, may testify as to new
Seconr1.—-Infant under ten year.-. 3 ’ matters stated by the party interThirrl—()t' unsound mind. i rogataed.

1-‘ourth.—IIusband and wife. i
Fifth.-—Attorney. ,

SEC. 662. All persons, except those enumerated in the
next Section, shall be competent to testify in a civil action.

l

SEC. 663. The following persons shall be incompetent
to testify:

Fz'rst.—Persons convicted of a capital offense, or of perjury.
subornation of perjury, burglary, robbery, larceny, receiving
stolen goods, forgery, or counterfeiting, except by consent of
the parties.

Second.—Infants under the age of ten years, and over that
age, if incapable of understanding the obligation of an oath.

TIzird.—Persons who are of unsound mind at the time of
being produced as witnesses.

-Fourth.—H_usband and wife, for or against each other, or
concerning any communication made by one to the other during the marriage, whether called as a witness while that relation snbsisted or afterward.

1v"if’tIz.—An attorney, concerning any communication made
to him by his client, in that relation, or his advice thereon,
without the client's consent.

SEC. 664. All other objections to witnesses shall go to
their credit alone, and be weighed by the jury or tribunal to
which their evidence is offered.

SEC. 665. In actions by equitable proceedings, if a
party, in answering interrogatories state new matters not responsive to the inquiries, the party interrogating may,‘ before
the trial, file his written statement, under oath, concerning
such new matters. which shall be read as a deposition. '

ARTICLE III.

Pcrpetzmtion, of Evidence.

M‘.c'no:~'—— Bl£C‘l'lOH—-_
666, 667, 668. Mode of perpetuating evi- 670. The circumstances under which the
deuce. depositions may be read.

(-69. Dcpositions to be filed in clerk's 671.1!‘ the trial is in another county

office. , copies to be read.

\

SEC. 666. A person desiring to perpetuate the testimony of a witness, may present to the judge of the Circuit
Court, or a probate judge of the county in which the adverse
party resides, or if he be a non-resident, then of the county in
which the petitioner resides, a petition subscribed by the petitioner, and verified by his aiiidavit, to the effect that he’beliéves the statements thereof are true, stating:

Fz'rst.—That the petitioner expects to be a party to an action
in a court of this State ;.also the name, if known, of the adverse party, whether or not he is a resident of this State, and
Whether or not of full age.

Sec-ond.—That the evidence of a witness, whose name and
residence, together with the facts generally expected to be
proved shall be stated, is believed by the petitioner to be material for him.

Tlzz'rd.—The obstacles preventing the action being immediately brought where the petitioner expects to be plaintifff.

SEC. 667. The judge may thereupon, in his discretion,
make an brder for the examination of the Witness, stating in
said order the time and place and manner of taking said deposition, which petition and order shall be filed in the office of
the clerk of the Circuit Court of the proper county, and when
the adverse party is a resident of this State, and has not been
absent therefrom four months, said clerk shall issue a summons
according to the provisions of the Code in other cases.

SEC. 668. If the adverse party he an infant, non-resident, or unknown, or has been absent from the State four
months, the judge may order a guardian ad litem and attorney
to be appointed to defend and cross-examine for the adverse
party, and Warning orders to be made, subject to all the rules
and regulations of this Code in regard to the appointment of
guardians ad litem and attorneys, and the making of warning
orders in other cases ; and wvhere the foregoing provisions of
this act have been complied with, the petitioner may proceed
to take the deposition of the. witness in the manner prescribed
in this Code; Provided, The parties seeking to perpetuate the
testimony shall pay all costs incurred.

SEC. 669. The deposition, when completed, together
with the aiiidavits, order, notice, and proof of service, shall be
£led in the clerk’s office of the proper county.

SEC. 670. In the event of a trial between the persons
named in the affidavit as expected parties, or their successors
in interest, the deposition, taken as above prescribed, may be
read by either party, where the witness is dead or insane, of,
if alive and of sound mind, where his attendance for oral examination can not be required, and every part of it shall be
subject to like objections as if taken pending the action.

SEC. 671. Where’ the trial is not in the Circuit Court of
the county in which the deposition is filed, a certified copy of

it and of the affidavit, order, notice, and proof of service, may
be read as evidence.

TITLE XIV.

EXECUTIONS AND REDEM.P'.l‘ION S.

€IlAP1‘B!b—
1. Executions.

n cannu\
l

2. Redemption.

CHAPTER I.

E.rtecution..9.
snc11oN— ' SECTION672. Executions, upon what judgments 682. Ollicer liable for failing to return
may issue. _ * forthcoming bond.
673. Form of execution and return. i 683. When execution is not stayed, sale to
674. When second execution may issue. ; be ona credit of three months. For:
6725. Rat to issue until ten days afterjudg- of bond by purchaser.

ment. unless ordered.
When and how stayed in the office.

Form of stay-bond.
When stayed in the ‘ hands of officer.
l-'orm of bond.
. Agreement to waive stay to be enforced.
Stay not allowed on certain judgments.
When personal property taken on exe cation, forthcoming bond may be

given. Its form.
681. ll‘ property not forthcoming, execution to be returned and another to
issue.‘

676.

671'.

679.

680.

. 690. Where sale of property may be made.

684. If sold for more than debt, how bond
to be taken.

685. Sale, stay and forthcoming bond, how
executed; shall have force of ajndr
ment, upon which execution may
issue.

686. Liability of officer taking bond.

687. If part of obigors or ohligees die,
may issue as to the survivors.

698. When all die. may issue as to reprosentatives. '

689. When bond quashed. new execution
may issue.

now advertised.

SEC. 672. An execution may issue, on any final judgment order of a court of record, in personum, for a liquidated
sum of money, and for interest and costs, or for costs alone.

SEC. 673. The form of an execution may be in substance
as follows :

THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.

To the Slzerzf of County, Greeting:

,You are commanded that of the estate of A. B., you cause
to be made the sum of dollars, which 0. D., late in our
eourt,' recovered against him for debt, with interest thereon
from the day of , 18-, until paid; also the sum of
——dollars, which was adjudged to the said 0. D. for his costs

in that suit expended; and that you have said sums of money
within sixty days to render to the said O. D., his debt, interest
and costs aforesaid.

In witness, &c. ‘

Fz'~rst.—The form may be varied to suitneach particular case.

Second.—All executions shall be returnable in sixty days
from their date.

Thir(l.—If an execution be satisfied, the officer may return
thereon in substance, “ satisfied,” unless it be by the sale of
property, when the fact must be stated.

Fom-th.—If satisfied in part, he must state what part, and
why the residue is not made.

Fg'}‘t}z.—If levied, and no sale has been had for the want of
bidders, or no property has been found, he must state the fact.

SEC. 674. If an execution is issued, and the plaintifff
desires to take out another, at his own proper costs, the clerk
may issue the same, though the previous execution be not returned:

Fz'rst.—If it be returned in whole or in part, not satisned, a
new one may issue. .

Sec-ond.——On a judgment or decree against several, the execution must be joint.

SEC. 675. N o execution shall issue on any judgment or
decree, unless ordered by the court, until after the expiration
of ten days from the rendition thereof.

SEC. 676. The defendants (except in the cases herein
otherwise provided) may, when there is no execution thereon
in the hands of a collecting officer, stay any judgment or decree for money, for three months, before the clerk or justice of
the peace entering up the judgment or decree, by giving an
obligation, with good surety, to be approved by such officer, in
substance as follows:

“This day the defendant, A. B., together with C. D., his
surety, came before me, as clerk of the circuit court (or before

me, a justice of the peace, of county), and undertook
that they would satisfy and pay E. F. his judgment, including

interest (if any), and costs, amounting to , rendered in
his favor against the said A. B., by this court (or by me), within
three months, with legal interest on the whole amount thereof
from this date.”

 

 

SEC. 677. Any execution on a judgment or decree,
which could be stayed before such execution issued, may, at
any time, before a sale of property under the same, be stayed
for three months by the defendant giving to the officer acting
under the same, an obligation, payable to the plaintifff, with
good security, for the amount thereof, including interest, costs,
and half commission up to that time. The obligation may be
in substance as follows:

“ \Ve, A. B., principal, and E. F., surety, do bind ourselves,
three months after the.date hereof, to pay C. D., the plaintifff
in execution, the sum of $ , to bear interest from this date,
being the amount of an execution which issued from the clerk’s
office of the circuit court (or the office of G. H., a justice of the peace for the county of ), on the day of
, 18-, in favor of the said O. D., for the sum $—debt, or damages, 8-— interest, $—— costs of suit, $-—sheriff (or constable’s) half commission, amounting in the
whole to the sum of 8———, aforesaid, against the said A. B.;
and we, the said A. B. and E. F., his surety, have hereby stayed
the same.

“ Witness our hand this

   

day of , 18—.”

SEC. 678. An agreement to waive the right of stay, or
any other legal agreement in relation to any judgment or decree, entered on the record among the orders of court, shall be
specifically enforced. In such case the proper indorsement
shall be entered upon the execution by the clerk or justice.

SEC. 679. No stay shall be allowed upon a judgment or
decree against any collecting officer or attorney at law, or agent,
for a delinquency or default in executing or fulfilling the duties

of his office, or place, or failing to pay over money collected
by him in such capacity, or against a principal by his surety,
or of a debt due by obligation having the force of a judgment,
or of a judgment or decree for specific property, or for the
property or its value, or a judgment or decree enforcing a lien
in favor of a vendor, or mortgagee. In the cases mentioned
in this section, in which a stay is not allowed, the execution
shall be so indorsed by the clerk or justice.

SEC. 680. The owner of personal estate taken in execution, may give to the officer levying on the same, an obligation
with good surety, to have the property forthcoming at the time
and place of sale, specifying therein each article of property
and its value. The obligation may be in substance as follows:

“We, A. B., principal, and C. D., surety, do bind ourselves
that the property mentioned in the following schedule and
valuation, to-wit: valued at 8 , (naming each article and its
value), shall be forthcoming at , on the day of
next, at the hour of twelve o'clock in the day.

“ Witness our hands, this day of , 18-.”

Upon the giving of such obligation, the oliicer shall return
the possession of the property, so taken in execution, to the
defendant, to remain with him, at his own risk and expense,
until the time specified for its delivery.

SEC. 681. If the defendant shall fail to pay or stay the
amount of the execution, and shall fail to deliver so much of
the property specified in the forthcoming obligation or other
property in its place, as is suilieient to satisfy the execution and
all costs and commissions, the o$cer shall return the execution
and bond to the office whence the former issued, and indorse

on the execution, the levy, the giving of the bond, and the
particular property which is not forthcoming, and other facts:

.Fz'rst.—The surety therein shall be liable only for the value
of the property specified in the bond, which is not forthcoming,
with interest thereon, from the date of the bond, and accruing
costs.

Second——If the property speciiied in the forthcoming bond

is not of value sutiicient to satisfy the execution, and all costs

and commissions, the proper otlieer may issue another execution, and credit the same with the value of the property satisiied in the bond.

SEC. 682. An officer taking a forthcoming bond, who
shall fail to return the same to the proper odicer for twenty
days, after the failure to comply on the part of the defendant,
shall, with his sureties, be liable to the plaintifff for theamount
of the execution, costs, and commission, and twenty per cent.
thereon, to be recovered by action against any one or more of
them or their representatives.

SEC. 683. In all cases where the right to stay the execution exiits and is not exercised, sales under the execution shall
be on a credit of three months, upon the purchaser giving
bond and good security to the plaintifff in the execution for the
payment of the sale money. bearing interest from date. The
bond may be in substance as follows:

“A. B., principal, and C. D., surety, do bind ourselves to
pay E. F., within three months from the date hereof, the sum
of $——, with interest thereon from this date, being the purchase money (here set out the several articles of property so
purchased, with the price of each), which was this day sold by
G. H., sheriff (or constable, as the case may be), of county,
in satisfaction of an execution which issued from the office of
the clerk of the - circuit court (or K. L., a justice of the
peace). on the day of , in favor of the said E. F.
against M. 0., for the sum of $3 debt or damages, with
interest and costs.

“Given under our hapds, this -'-——day of——, 18—.”

I

   

 

SEC. 684. When property sold on a credit, shall sell for
more than will satisfy the execution, costs and commission, the
onicer making the sale shall take a bond payable to the defendant, the owner of the property, for the excess, similar in
every other respect to that directed in the preceding section, to
be taken to the plaintifff, and to have like force and effect, and
on which the like proceedings may be had. .If the property is
sold for cash in hand, any excess over satisfying the execution
and charges, and commissions, shall be paid over by the officer
to the defendant whose property is sold.

SEC. 685. Every bond taken on the sale of property, under
an order or decree in chancery, or on the sale of prpperty under
execution, and every stay-bond and forthcoming bond, shall be
signed by the principal and sureties and attested by the person
taking the same or some one in his presence:

First.-—A bond so taken shall be returned to the proper
officer, with the report of the acts of the person taking it; and
if taken under execution, the latter must be returned with the
bond.

Second.—All such bonds shall have the force and effect of a
judgment, and on which an execution may issue, which execution shall be indorscd that no surety of any kind is to be
taken.

SEC. 686. The officer taking any of the bonds aforesaid,
and his sureties, or their representatives, shall be jointly and
severally liable to the person injured for any damages he may
sustain by such officer failing to discharge his duty in the
taking of such bond.

SBc'rIoN 687. If one ot' several obligors, or obligees, in a
bond having the force and effect of a judgment, shall die
before the same is satisfied, execution may issue on such bond
in the name of the surviving obligees, against the obligors or
the survivor.

SEC. 688. When all the obligees in such bond, as is
specified in the preceding section, shall die, their personal rep
resentatives may, if such bond is not satisfied, sue out execution thereon, after its maturity, against the obligors or their

personal representatives; if they are all dead, or if only part
be dead, against the survivor and the personal representatives
of the deceased. /

SEC. 689. When a bond having the force of a judgment
is quashed, a new execution may issue on the original judgment at the instance of the plaintifff, in the same manner as if
such bond had never been given. '

SEC. 690. The time and place of sale of real property
upon execution, or by virtue of a judgment, or order of sale,
must be advertised for at least twenty days, next before the day
of sale, by posting printed advertisements at the court house
door and five other public places in the county in which the

‘sale is to be made, one of which is to be upon the premises to

be sold, and, by publishing the same for at least two insertions,
before the day of sale, in a weekly newspaper published in the

county, if one there be. The time and place of sale of personal’

property shall be advertised by posting written or printed
notices at three of the most public places in the vicinity of the
place of sale. The sale of real estate is not required to be
made upon a court day, but may be made at any other time,
after being duly advertised; the sale to be made at the court
house door,_ unless, at the request of the defendant who owns
the land, the officer shall appoint the sale upon the premises.
Where there has been one failure to sell for want of bidders,
the officer may appoint‘ the sale at the court house door, or on
the premises, as he shall deem most likely to secure a fair

sale.

CHAPTER II.

Redemption.
sEc'r1o.\'— « SECTION69l. Real estate sold on execution may be 695. Purchaser may pay amount bid by
redeemed. judgment creditor and bar redcmp.

592, How redeemed. , tion. If not paid to be a redemption.

693. Sherirfto give purchaser ccrtiticate 695. Right Of redemption. Priority of,
of purchase. how lost. '

694. How judgment creditor may re- ‘697. Sheriff tomake deed. Possession to,
deem. obtained by forcible detaincr.

SEC. 691. Vvhen any real estate or any interest therein
is sold under execution, the same may be redeemed by the
debtor from the purchaser or his vendees, or the personal representatives of either, within twelve months thereafter.

SEC. 692. The debtor may, at any time within twelve
months, pay to the clerk of the court, where the execution
issued, the purchase money with fifteen per cent. per annum,

and all lawful charges, and take his receipt therefore; such
money shall be held by the clerk for the use of the purchaser,

and he shall be responsible upon his official bond therefore.
Such clerk shall iudorse upon the execution-book that such redemption‘ has been made.

SEC. 693. The sheriff shall give the purchaser of any
real property, sold upon execution, a certificate of sale, in which
the property sold shall be described, and the price for which it
sold stated. Such certificate shall be evidence of the purchase
at the price stated, and the oilicer shall return a duplicate thereof
with the execution. No conveyance shall be made to the purchaser, nor the possession delivered to him, until the time for redeeming has expired—and if said property is redeemed by the
defendant as provided in this Chapter, the sale and certificate
of purchase shall be null and void. "

SEC. 694. At any time before the expiration of twelve
months from the sale of any land, under the provisions of this Chapter, which has not been redeemed, any judgment creditor
may redeem the same in manner following: Such judgment

creditor shall sue out an execution upon his judgment and place
the same in the hands of the proper officer, and pay to said
officer the amount for which said premises were sold, and fifteen
per cent. per annum thereon from the date of such sale, and
all charges thereon for the use of the purchaser, and shall offer
to credit his execution with a sum at least equal to ten per cent.
of the amount for which said land sold, which offer shall be
regarded as his bid. All of which shall be indorsed upon said

‘execution, and a statement thereof filed with the execution

upon which the land was sold; whereupon, t.hc clerk shall indorse in the proper place upon the execution-book, that such
creditor has bid for the redemption of such property, which
shall be dated, and may be in substance as follows:

“A. B., a judgment creditor, bids 3

for the redemption

_ of the property sold on this execution.”

SEC. 695. Unless the purchaser, within thirty days from
the filing of the statement and the making of the indorsement
mentioned in the preceding section, pay to the officer the
amount so bid by the judgment creditor, the same shall operate

.as a redemption of said property by such judgment creditor,

and he shall succeed to all the rights and liabilities of such
purchaser. But if such purchaser shall pay to such officer,
within the time allowed, the amount so bid by the judgment
creditor, it shall bar such redemption ; and the right of redempion of such judgment creditor, as against the purchaser, or any
one redeeming from him, shall be forever foreclosed. But if the
purchaser shall fail t.o pay over to him the amount of such bid,
as provided in this section, the officer shall pay over to him the
amount so paid by thejudgment creditor, and credit the execution of the judgment creditor with the amount so bid by him,
after deducting costs and commissions, and shall execute to him
a certificate of sale, in which shall be included, as the price paid,
the amount paid to the purchaser and the amount of the bid
of such judgment creditor; and such judgment creditor

shall, for all purposes of this Article, be regarded as’

the purchaser of said property, at the price mentioned in

the certificate to him, and any other judgment creditor may,
in like manner, redeem from him or each succeeding judgment
creditor- who may redeem under the provisions of this section.
But no such redemption shall be allowed after twelve months
from the day of the original sale.

SEC. 696. If any purchaser shall pay the amount bid by
the judgment creditor, the officer shall pay the same to such
judgment creditor, together with the amount paid by such
judgment creditor to the officer. The right of redemption
shall be in the order of priority of judgment, but if any judgment creditor shall, for thirty days after a sale or redemption
upon a judgmentprior to his, fail to pay off prior bids, and
bid for the redemption of such property, as provided in this chapter, he shall be deemed to have waived his priority, as
against others who have complied with the provisions of this chapter. /'

SEC. 697. After the time for redemption has-expired,
the sheriff, or his successor, shall convey by deed the property
sold under the provisions of this title, to the person entitled
thereto. Upon which, such grantee, if possession is not delivered within ten days, may proceed, by forcible detainer, to
be put in possession thereof.

TITLE XV.

MISCELLANEOUS PROCEEDINGS.

~0HAP'I’3‘B-- 0311-1-331. Security for costs. 5. Oifer to confess judgment.
'3. Motion: and notices. 0. Proceedings upon execution and db3. Omar to compromise. trons wsrrntu. «I. Submitting a oontrovemy.

CHAPTER I.

Security for Costa.

-sncnox-— 6l0'l'I0ll——
ass. Non-resident piuintiirs. and all oor- 1'01. Guardians, eto., and uoignooo, may
porations, except banks, to give secu- be l'0<i0il"5d 00 8170 Ioourity. if Into! rity for costs. V011‘699. Action to be dismissed unless bond is 709- Add“-10381 800111“! may be required.
giygn, 703 Attorney liable for costs until bond in
700. If plammr becomes non-resident he thentnnst give security.

SEC. 698. A plaintifff, who is a non-resident of this
State, or a corporation, other than a bank, created by the laws
of this State, before commencing an action, shall file in the

clerk's oiiice a bond, with sufiicicnt surety, to be approved by

the clerk, for the payment of all costs which may accrue in
the action in the court in which it is brought, or in any other
to which it may be carried, either to the defendant or to the
officers of the courts.

SEC. 699. An action in which a bond for costs is required,
by the last section, and has not been given, shall be dismissed,
on the motion of the defendant, at any time before judgment,
unless in a reasonable time, to be allowed by the court, after
the motion is made therefore, such bond is filed, securing all
past and future costs ; and the action shall not be dismissed or
abated if a bond t'or costs is given in such time as the court
may allow.

SEC. 700. If the plaintifff in an action, after its institution, becomes a non-resident of this State, he shall give security for costs, in the manner and under the restrictions provided in the preceding sections of this chapter.

SEC. 701. A guardian, committee, or next friend, suing
for an infant or person of unsound mind, and every plaintifff
suing as an assignee, except an mdorsee of a bill of exchange,
ora promissory note placed on the footing of a bill of exchange, when insolvent, may be required to give security for
costs; and on failure to do so in a reasonable time after it is
directed by the court, upon the motion of the defendant, his
action shall be dismissed.

SEC. 702. In an action in which a bond for costs has
been given, the defendant may, at any time before judgment,
after reasonable notice to the plaintifff, move the court for additional security on the part of the plaintifff; and if, on such
motion, the court is satistied that the surety in the plaintifffs
bond has removed from the State, or is not sufficient for the
amount thereof, it may dismiss the action, unless, in a reasonable time, to be fixed by the court, sufficient security is given
by the plaintifff.

SEC. 703. Where process is issued in an action by the
direction of an attorney for a plaintifff who is required, by the
first section of this chapter, to give security for costs, but who
has failed to do so, the attorney shall be liable as surety for the

costs of the action until a bond is given; and his liability may
be enforced by orders of court, and by proceedings as for contempt, if they are not obeyed.

CHAPTER II.

./llotions and .xV0tice.

snc'r1ox— Bi'.‘C‘l'l0N- .
704. What is an order. 711. How on husband and wife.
, 705. What is amotion. 712. How on persons constructively sum706. Notices must be in writing; by whom moned. °
served. 713. I u what cases to be served on an attor707. How a notice may be served. ney.
708. Cases in which the court may direct I 714. I t‘ party to an action does not reside‘
the mode of servirg. ‘ in the county, may be served on at709. How served on an infant or person of torney. ‘

unsound mind. 715. Duty of sherin' and constables to
710. How on a corporation. serve all notices delivered to them.

SEC. 704. Every direction of a court or judge entered
upon the order book, or made in writing,‘ in a civil action, and
not included in the judgment, is denominated an order.

SEC. 705. An application for an order is a motion.

SEC. 706. The notices mentioned in this Code shall be
in writing, and may be served by a sheriff, constable, coroner,

or marshal of a town or city, whose return thereon shall beproof of the service. Notices may also be served by any person not a party, or interested in the action or proceeding, whose
aiiidavit shall be proof of the service, or by acknowledgment
thereon in writing by the party upon whom served.

SEC. 707. The service of a notice shall be by giving a copy
thereof to the person to whom it is directed, or, if he cannot be
found at his usual place of abode, by leaving a copy there witha person over the age of sixteen years, residing in the same
family with him, or, if no such person is there, then by aHixing a copy to the front door of such place of abode. If the

person to whom the notice is directed cannot be found, and
has no known place of abode in this State, the notice may be
served by delivering a copy to his attorney. The return of the
oilicer, or the affidavit of the person who served the notice,
shall state the time and manner of the service; and where a
copy of the notice is not given to the person to whom it is
directed, the return or atiidavit shall state the facts authorizing
the manner of service pursued.

SEC. 708. Where the party has no known place of abode
in this State, and no attorney in the county where the action is
pending, Or where the parties, plaintifff or defendants, are
numerous, the court may direct the mode of serving notices,

and to what persons they shall be given.

SEC. 709. A notice to an infant or person of unsound
mind, shall be served on the guardian, committee, or next
friend bringing or defending the action for him.

SEC. 710. A notice to a corporation may be served in
the same manner as a summons in an action against it.

SEC. 711. Where husband and wife unite in bringing or
defending an action, the service of a notice on the husband,
shall be deemed a service on the wife.

SEC. 712. A notice to a person constructively summoned,
and not appearing, shall be served on the attorney appointed
to defend for him. .

SEC. 713. Where it is not otherwise specially provided
in the Code, a notice to a party in an action of any motion Or
proceeding to be made or taken therein in court, or before a
judge, may be served upon such party or his attorney; but the
service upon the attorney in any such case, must be by delivering to him a copy of the notice.

SEC. 714. Where a party to an action does not reside in
the county in which it is pending, a notice to him to take
depositions may be served by delivering a copy thereof to his
attorney.

SEC. 715. It shall be the duty of the sheriff, and of every
constable, to whom any notice in an action may be delivered
for service within his county. to serve and return such notice to

the party who delivered it to him. A failure to perform this
duty may be punished as a disobedience of the process of the
court.

CHAPTER III.

Ofer to Compromise.

BENCH” 3501103..
710. Defendant before trial may oner to 717. Continued.

compromise ; if plaintln‘ refuses. be It piainuxr does not accept. he must

must P8)’ 00595. “D1658 M TGCOVGPS pay costs unless he recovers more
more than the oner. than the one,’

717. After answer, the defendant may
oxer that the recovery may be for 3
speeined amount, if his defense fails. g'°‘"‘d’ °f °°"u”°“°“"

718. Making an oner of eompromise not

SEC. 716. The defendant in an action for the recovery of
money only, may, at any time before the trial, serve upon the
plaintifff or his attorney, an offer in writing, to allow judgment
to be taken against him for the sum specided therein. If the
plaintiffaccepts the offer, and gives notice thereof to the defendant or his attorney within five days after the offer was
served, the offer, and an affidavit that the notice ‘of acceptance
was delivered in the time limited, may be filed by the plaintifff,
or the defendant may file the acceptance, with a copy of the
offer, certified by affidavit; and, in either case, the offer and

aceeptancefshall be noted upon the record, and‘ judgment shall
be rendered accordingly. If the notice of acceptance is not

given in the period limited, the offer shall be deemed withdrawn, and shall not be given in evidence or mentioned on the ;

trial. If the plaintifff fails to obtain judgment for more than
was offered by the defendant, he shall pay the defendant's
costs from the time of the offer.

SEC. 717. In an action for the recovery of money only,
the defendant having answered, may serve upon the plaintifff

or his attorney, an offer in writing, that, if he fails in his‘
defense, the amount of the recovery shall be assessed at a
specined sum. If the plaintifff accepts the offer and gives notice
thereof to the defendant or his attorney, within five days after
itwas served, and the defendant fails in his defense, the judgment shall be for the amount so agreed upon. If the plaintifff
does not accept the offer, he shall prove the amount to berecovered, as if the offer had not been made. The offer shall
not be given as evidence or mentioned on the trial. And if
the amount recovered by the plaintifff, does not exceed the sum
mentioned in the offer, the defendant shall recover his costsincurred in the defense, in respect to the question of amount,
to be taxed under the direction of the court.

SEC. 718. The making of any offer pursuant to the pro-.
visions of this chapter, shall not be a cause for a continuance
of an action or a postponement of a trial.

CHAPTER IV. '

Submitting (1 Controversy.

none»-— - sumo):'ltI. Parties may make an agreed ease, and 72). costs may be adjudged and judgment
Iubmit it to 9-he 00!!“ T0!’ d005|i0n- subject to P6787281, unless otherwise
‘no. Theease, the submission and jndg- “8"°°‘lment, constitute the record

SEC. 719. Parties to a question which might be the
subject of a civil action, may, without action, agree upon a case
containing the facts upon which the controversy depends, and
present a submission of the same to any court which would
have jurisdiction if an action had been brought. But it must

appear by affidavit, that the controversy is real, and the proceedings in good faith, to determine the rights of the parties.

The court shall, thereupon, hear and determine the case, and
render judgment as if an action were pending.

SEC. 720. The case, the submission, and the judgment
shall constitute the record. T

SEC. 721. The judgment shall be with costs, may be
enforced, and shall be subject to reversal in the same manner
as if it had been rendered in an action, unless otherwise provided in the submission.

CHAPTER V.

Ojfer to Confess J wdgment.

I
SECTION722. Defendant may on'er to confess judgment, and if plaintiu’ refuses to aceept, he shall be subject to costs, unless he recovers more than the om.-r.

SEC. 722. After an action for the recovery of money is
brought, the defendant may offer in court to confess judgment

for part of the amount claimed, or part of the causes involved
in the action. Whereupon, if the plaintifff, being present, refuses to accept such confession of judgment in full of his demands against the defendant in the action, or having had such
notice that the offer would be made, of its amount, and of the
time of making it, as the co-urt shall deem reasonable, fails to
attend, and on the trial, does not recover more than was so
offered to be confessed, such plaintifff shall pay all of the costs
of the defendant incurred after the offer. The offer shall not
be deemed to be an admission of the causes of action, or
amount to which the plaintifff is entitled, nor be given in evidencc upon the trial.

CHAPTER VI.

Proceedings upon Execution and Distress Warrant.

8lC1'ION— sEc'rIox~:—

723. Onlcer may require indemnifying 731. On the_trial the appraisement may be
bond of plaintitt, before selling per- contested_
9011“ Pl‘0P0l'i-&'- 782. Bond does not discharge the levy.

724- Unless b°11di5 8iV°D. "10 031001‘ H18? 733. These provisions apply to executions
refuse to levy or proceed on the levy. a fl-om Justices of the peace.

1'25. The claimant or purchaser must look 734_ A130 to proceedings on pm,-egg warto the bond, and not to the officer for run“
l“d9mDlW- 785. Bond may be executed by tenants

795- Sll1'Plll3 01' PF°°e€f13 03' 88-10 *0 bcpaid where property is levied on under
into court, and disposed of by court. I Distress Warrant.

72?. Sales of personal property may be
suspended by the execution of bond
by claimant.

728- Property to be appraised for the vur- 731, 7-38. Facts to be tried by jury.
pose of taking bond. 739. Judgment may be for rent and ten

“ 736. Party to whom bond is due may move
I
‘:29. Bond and appraisement returned to I’ per cent, thereon.

for Judgment thereon. Defense
thereto.

the Circuit Court of the county where 740. If part of the rent claimed is not due,
the levy was made. part may be suspended by bond.

730. Party to whom the bond is given may 741. Trials of right of property by juries
move for judgment thereon. abolished.

SEC. 723. If an officer who levies, or is required to levy,
an execution upon personal property, doubts whether it is subject to execution, he may give to the plaintifff therein, or his
agent or attorney, notice that an indemnifying bond is required.
Bond may, thereupon, be given by or for the plaintifff, with
one or more suiiicient sureties to be approved by the officer, to
the effect that the obligors therein will indemnify him against
the damage he may sustain in consequence of the seizure or
sale of the property, and will pay to any claimant thereof the
damages he may sustain in consequence of the seizure or sale,
and will warrant to any purchaser of the property, such estate
or intererest therein as is sold; and, thereupon, the officer shall
proceed to subject the property to the execution, and shall return the indemnifying bond to the circuit court of the county
from which the execution issued.

SEC. 724. If the bond mentioned in the last section is
not given, the officer may refuse to levy the execution; or; if
it had been levied, and the bond is not given in a reasonable

time after it is required by the officer, he may restore the property to the person from whose possession it was taken, and the
levy shall stand discharged.

SEC. 725. The claimant or purchaser of any property,
for the seizure or sale of which an iudemnifying bond has been
taken and returned by the officer, shall be barred of any action against the officer levying upon the property, if the surety
was good when it was taken. And such claimant or purchaser
may maintain an action upon the bond, and recover such damages as he may be entitled to.

SEC. 726. Where property, for the sale of which the
odicer is indemniiied, sells for more than enough to satisfy the
execution under which it was taken, the surplus shall be paid
into the court to which the indemnifying bond is directed to be
returned. That court may order such disposition or payment,
of the money to be made temporarily or absolutely. as may be
proper in respect to the rights of the parties interested.

SEC. 727. The sale of personal property upon which an
execution is levied, shall be suspended at the instance of any
person, other than the defendant in the execution, claiming the
property, who shall execute, with one or more sureties, suiticient for double its value, a bond to the plaintifff in the execution, to the effect that, it’ it shall be adjudged that the property,
or any part of it, is subject to the execution, he will pay to the
plaintifff the value of the property so subject, and ten per cent.
thereon, not exceeding the amount due on the execution and
ten per cent. thereon.

SEC. 728. For the purpose of taking the bond menlioned in the last section, the officers shall select three disinterested house-keepers, and administer to them an oath to
make a fair appraisement of each article of the property, whose
appraisement in writing shall be recited in the bond.

SEC. 729. The bond, with the appraisement annnexed
thereto, shall be returned to the circuit court of the county in
which the levy was made.

SEC. 730. The party to whom the bond is executed may
move the court to which it is returned for a judgment thereon

against all or any of the obligate, or their. representatives, having given to them ten days’ notice of the motion. The court
shall direct a jury to be empaneled, and may cause such issues
to be tried as it may prescribe, and direct which party shall be

considered plaintifff in the issue. If the property, or any part _

of it, is found subject to the execution, judgment shall be ren-dered in favor of the plaintifff therein, for the value of the property so subject, and ten per cent. thereon, not exceeding the
amount due on the execution and ten per cent. thereon. An
execution may be issued upon the judgment forthwith, on
which the same indorsement shall be made as on the execution, in virtue of which the property had been seized.

SEC. 731. Upon the trial of the motion, either party may
object that the property was not fairly appraised; and thereupon, the jury trying the facts shall hear evidence respecting,
and find the value of, the property.

Bncrrlon 732. The giving of the bond, mentioned in section
727, shall not discharge the levy of the execution upon the
property claimed. But the officer may leave it subject to the
lieu of the levy, with the person in whose possession it was
found, pending the proceeding on the bond, and may, in the
meantime, proceed with the execution against any other property of the defendant.

SEC. 733. The provisions of the preceding sections of
this chapter shall apply to proceedings upon executions issued
by justices of the peace. Indemnifying bonds, in such cases,
shall be returned with the executions under which they are
taken, and bonds of claimants of property may be returned to
any justice of the county, and motion thereon made before him
on five days’ notice. He shall cause a juryto be empaneled
to find whether the property was subject to the execution, subjeot to an appeal where the value of the property exceeds
twenty-five dollars.

SEC. 734. The provisions of the preceding sections of
this chapter shall also apply to proceedings upon distress warrants levied, or about to be levied, upon personal property,
claimed by any person other than the tenant, his assignee, or

under tenant. In every such case the bond of the claimant of
the property, where it exceeds the value of fifty dollars, shall
be returned to the Circuit Court of the county, and the motion
thereon made in that court, and, where the value of the property does not exceed one hundred dollars, to the justice of
the peace who issued the warrant, and the motion may be made
before him. Indemnifying bonds in such cases shall be
returned with the warrants under which they were taken.

SEC. 735. Where an officer levies, or is about to levy, a
distress warrant upon any property, the tenant, his assignee, or
under tenant, may execute, with one or more sufficient sureties, to be approved by the officer, a bond to the party in whose
favor the warrant issued, to the etfect that he will pay to such
party the amount of the rent specified in the warrant, withten
per cent. thereon, if the property is of the value of the rent so
specihed; or, if it is of less value, that he will pay to such
party the value thereof and ten per cent. thereon. For the
purpose of taking this bond, the officer shall cause the property
to be appraised, as provided in section 714. The appraisement
shall be annexed and referred to in the bond. Upon the giving
of the bond, the levy, if one is made, shall be discharged, and
the bond and warrant shall be returned to the justice of the
peace who issued the warrant, where the amount claimed does

not exceed one hundred dollars ; and, where it does exceed
that sum, to the clerk’s office of the Circuit Court of the county.

SEC. 736. The party to whom the bond is executed may
move the justice of the peace, or the court, for a judgment
thereon against all or any of the obligors, or their representatives, having given to them five days’ notice of the motion.
The defendants may make defense upon the ground that the
distress was for rent not due, in whole or in part, or was otherwise illegal; or, if property was levied upon, that it was, by
statute, exempt from the levy. ,

SEC. 737. Where the motion is made before a justice of
the peace, he shall cause a jury to find the facts, subject to an
appeal where the amount exceeds twenty-live dollars.

SEC. 738. Where the motion is made in court, it shall

, direct a jury to find the facts.

SEC. 739. If the judgment is against the defendants it
shall be for the rent due, and ten per cent. thereon, not exceeding the amount secured by the bond. An execution may he
issued forthwith.

SEC. 740. Where the tenant, his assignee, or under tenant, contests that a part of the rent is not due, he may suspend
the distress warrant for such part by giving bond with a surety

for it, upon which proceedings may be taken, as prescribed in
the preceding sections.

SEC. 741. Trials by juries, summoned by sheriffs, or
other officers, of the right of property taken by them under
execution or distress warrant, are abolished. .

CHAPTER VII.

Proceedings where Execution is Levied on Partnership
Property.

SEC. 742. Whenever a sheriff or other officer shall‘

levy an execution upon property or effects held jointly, or in
partnership, by the debtor in the execution with others, tosatisfy the separate debt of such debtor, the sheriff, or other
officer, shall not proceed to make sale thereof, except as hereinafter provided, if the person or persons, or any of them

holding such joint or partnership interest with the debtor,

shall assert an equitable or other claim thereto, and, in writing,
notify the officer of the existence of such claim. ,
SEC. 743. Where any such levy is made, the officer shall
give notice thereof, in writing, to the other joint owners ‘or
partners, if resident in his county, or to the agent, if any, of
any such joint owners or partners who are absent or non-resident; and if such joint owners or partners shall thereafter, forthe space of fifteen days, fail to give the officers notice of their

claim, the officer shall then proceed to advertise and sell the
property so levied upon.

SEC. 744. VVhen a claim is asserted by the joint owners
or partners to the property levied upon, the officer shall not,
by virtue of his levy, deprive the joint owners, or partners, of
the possession of the property levied upon, except for the puro
pose of making an inventory thereof‘, and having the same
appraised. ,

SEC. 745. The officer shall proceed to have the property

_ levied upon appraised as provided in section 728 of this Code.

He shall return the inventory and appraisement with the execution to the officer from which it issued; and in his return
shall state all the facts connected with the levy by him, and
the claims, if any, set up by the joint owner or owners.

SEC. 746. The execution creditor shall have a lien upon
the property levied upon, such as is given by law to executions
in the hands of the officer, and which shall continue until the
levy is disposed of.

SEC. 747. Upon the execution being filed by the officer,
that he had levied the same upon the property, in which the
debtor was joint owner, or partner, and that the same was
claimed by the other joint owners orpartners, the execution
creditor may proceed by equitable proceedings, to subject to
the satisfaction of his execution the interest of his debtor so
levied upon.

SEC. 748. If such creditor, at the commencement of his
action, or afterward, shall file an affidavit that he verily believes that the property levied upon will be removed from the
county, or sold, or otherwise disposed of, with intent fraudulently to defeat his lien, the court, or judge thereof in vacation, probate judge, or, if within the jurisdiction of a magistrate,
then a justice of the peace, may make an order directing
the officer to possess himself of theproperty so levied upon,
unless bond with approved security shall be executed to the
plaintifff in the execution, binding the obligors in the said bond
to have the same forthcoming, in obedience to any order or
judgtnent of the court in the action, which bond shall be taken

by the officer, and returned by him to the court in which the
action is pending.

CHAPTER VI I I.

Proc-terlin.g‘s by Suvreties.

swnox—- ; SECTION-—
‘IQ. Surety may maintain an action ' 150. May maintain an action for indomagainst his principal. to compel him nit_v before the debt is due.
to pay the debt. 751. May obtain provisional rum-dies.

SEC. 749. A surety may maintain an action against his
principal to compel him to discharge the debt or liability for
which the surety is bound, after the ‘same has become due.

SEC. 750. A surety may maintain an action against his
principal to obtain indemnity against the debt or liability for
which he is bound, before it is due, whenever any of the
grounds exist, upon which, by the provisions of Chapters I and
III, of Title VIII, an order may be made for arrest and bail,
or for attachment.

SEC. 751. In such action the surety may obtain any of
the provisional remedies mentioned in Title VIII, upon the
ground and in the manner therein prescribed.

CHAPTER IX.

Change of Venue in Civil Cases.

ARTICLE I.
3nc'r1ox— SECTION752. Change of venue, how obtained. 756. If fees not paid, order to be void.
753. By whom order may be granted. But one order allowed to same party.

754. To what county change may be made. 757. When case shall stand for trial.
‘:55. How papers to be transmitted.

SEC. 752. Any party to a civil action, triable by a jury,
may obtain an order for a change of venue therein; by motion

upon a petition stating that he verily believes that he cannot
obtain a fair and impartial trial in said action, in the county in

which the same is pending, on account of the undue influence
of his adversary, or, of the undue prejudice against the petitioner, or, his cause of action or defense, in such county. The
petition shall be signed by the party and veriiied as pleadings
are required to be verified, and shall be supported by the
affidavit of one or more attorneys of the petitioner, to the
effect that atiiant believes the statements of the petition are

true.

SEC. 753. The motion may be made before, and the order granted by, a judge of the supreme court, or the circuit
judge of the county in which the action is pending, in open
court, or in vacation, but if made at any time or place except in
open court, at the calling of the case, it shall be upon resonable notice in writing to the adverse party, or his attorney.
The party may make his petition, and the affidavit supporting
the same, apply to one county in addition to the one in which
the action is pending, and the opposite party, at the hearing,
may make like objection, supported by aiiidavit, to the same
number of counties, to which the petitioner objects.

SEC. 754. Upon presenting the petition and notice to
such judge, he shall make an order for the change of the venue

in such action to a county to which there is no valid objection,
Which, in his judgment, is most convenient to the parties and
their witnesses.

SEC. 755. When said order is obtained out of term
time, the party obtaining the same, shall cause the petition,
notice, affidavit, and order, to be delivered to the clerk of the
court in which the action is pending, who shall file the same
with the papers in the case; and in all cases where an order
for a change of venue is granted, the clerk shall make and file
with the papers, a certilied copy of all the orders in the case,
and upon the payment of the transmission fees, hereinafter
provided, shall transmit the papers in the case to the clerk of
the court to which the venue is changed, by any safe and convenient mode which he may select, he being responsible for
the same, for which he shall receive ten cents per mile to and
from said clerk's office, to be paid by the party obtaining the
order, and to be taxed in the costs.

SEC. 756. If the above mentioned fee is not paid, or
arranged with the clerk within fifteen days from the granting
of said order, the order shall be null and void; provided, that
the judge granting the order may extend the time of making
such payment, which shall be stated in the order; provided
further, that the adverse party, if he chooses, may make such
payment. But one order for a change of venue shall be granted
to the same party in the same action.

SEC. 757. In all cases of change of venue, the action
shall stand for trial in the court to which the change is. made,
at the first term of the court which commences more than ten
days from the tiling of the papers of the case in the office of
the clerk of such court.

ARTICLE II.

Objections to J lodge. Mode of Electing‘ Special J lodge.

SEC. 758. Whenever a party to any civil action in the
circuit or chancery court, verily believes that the judge of the

and impartial trial, he may file with the clerk of such court an
affidavit to that effect, veriiied as pleadings are required to be
‘verified. Whereupon, unless the parties agree upon a person
to preside as judge, the clerk shall proceed to hold an election
for special judge to preside in such case, at which election all
of the practising lawyers of such court, not engaged in the
case, may vote, and in case of tie, the clerk shall give the casting vote, and the person receiving the largest number of votes
shall preside in such case.

SEC. 759. All special judges, whether elected or agreed
upon by the parties, shall take the same oath required to be
taken by circuit judges, as far as the same is applicable, unless
the same is waived by the parties, and shall have all power and
authority in the trial of cases in which they preside that are
-conferred on judges of the circuit or chancery courts in the trial
of like cases. _

SEC. 760. If the parties fail to agree upon a judge and
there is a failure to elect, or the person elected shall fail or
refuse to act, the clerk shall make an order changing the venue
in such case to the most convenient county in an adjoining
circuit, and shall transmit the papers as required in other cases
of change of venue, for which he shall receive the same compensation, to be taxed as costs and collected as other costs in
the case. But as to the clerk, the fee for transmitting the
papers, shall be regarded as the costs of the party filing the
affidavit.

SEC. 761. The election of special judges in all cases
provided for in Section 9, Article VII, of the Constitution of
‘this State, and all other cases provided for by law, shall be
"held by the clerk in the manner provided in this article, except,
in cases where a special judge is elected in consequence of the
absence of the regular judge, no attorney shall be precluded
from voting on the account of his being engaged in the cases
that will come before such special judge.

TITLE XVI.

GENERAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE T6 THE WHOLE CODE.

{‘n.u*n;n-- CIIAPTI-IR-—
1. Process. 4. Miscellaneous piovieions.

2. Duties of Clerks. 5. Provisions respecting existing actions.
3. Duties of Sherims. '

Process.
ssc1'1o.\'— :~£c'nox—
761 No summons or process to be issued 76?. Also on muster days, election days,
before complaint is flied. etc,
763. No objection to process or bond that 763. To whom process to be directed.
is dated on 8 holiday- ’ where the sheritl‘ or other officer is
764. Process may be issued on a holiday. im«e1'0St9d765. Attachments, ete., may be executed 769' Court may “ppomt “ p°rs°“ t° 9”’
on holidays in certain cases. “cut” p"°°°”'

766._Summons and process may be executed on holidays in certain cases.

SEC. 762. No summons or order for a provisional remedy
shall be issued by the clerk in any action before the pla.intiii"p
complaint or petition therein is filed in his office.

SEC. 763. It shall be no objection to any process, writ,
summons, affidavit, or order for a provisional remedy, that it
was issued, made, or is dated on a holiday; nor shall it be an
objection to any bond given by or for any party to an action, or
taken by an officer in the course of the same, that it was made
or is dated. on any such day.

SEC. 764. A summons, or order for a provisional remedy,
may be issued on any holiday, except Sunday, and on Sunday,
where an affidavit of the plaintifff or some other person is made,
to the effect that, unless it is issued on that day, there is reasonable cause to believe that it cannot be executed.

SEC. 765. An order of attachment, or for the delivery of
property, maybe executed on any holiday, except Sunday, and
on-Sunday, when the officer having the process believes, or an
affidavit of the plaintifff or some other person is made to the

effect that the affiant believes, that the property is about to be .

concealed or removed, or that the process cannot be executed
after such holiday.

SEC. 766. A summons, subpena, notice, order of arrest
or of injunction, may be executed on any holiday, except Sunday, and on Sunday, where the oliicer having the process
believes, or an affidavit of the plaintifff or some other person is
made to the effect that afliant believes, that the process cannot
be executed after such holiday.

SEC. 767. The defendant shall have no privilege of exemption from the service of the process mentioned in the last section except, from an arrest, by reason of his attendance at any
muster, election, or order of survey, or as a witness at any
court or other place. '

SEC. 768. An order for a provisional remedy, or any
other process, in an action wherein the sheriff is a party, or is
interested, shall be directed to the coroner, or, if he is interested,
to some constable.

SEC. 769. The court, for good cause, may appoint a
person to serve a particular process or order, who shall have
the same power to execute it which a sheriff has. The person
may be appointed on the motion of the party obtaining the

process or order, and the return must be verified by his allidavit. He shall be entitled to the fees allowed to sherifl’ for
similar services.

CHAPTER II.

Duties of Clark.

.8IC'!'lON— | 8l£C’l‘ION-710. Plerk to indorse the time of flling 1311- 77%. Clerk may administer oaths.
pers, and of returning orders and 773. Prepare bonds.

bonds. 774. May refuse security otfcrcd.
771. To enter service of summons on the 1'75. Attorney's fees allowed in certain
docket. cases.

SEC. 770. The clerk shall indorse, upon every paper
filed in an action, the day of filing it; and upon every order

for a provisional remedy, and upon every bond taken thereunder, the day of its return to his office.

SEC. 771. He shall, upon the return of every summons
served, enter upon the docket the name of the defendant or
defendants summoned, and the day of the service upon each
one. The entry shall be evidence of the service of the summons in case of the loss thereof.

SEC. 772. He may administer any oath or take any
aliidavit required or permitted in the progress of an action.

SEC. 773. He shall prepare, in a proper manner, every
bond to be taken by or given before him or his court.

SEC. 774. He shall refuse any surety offered in a bond
to be taken by him, who is, in his opinion, insufficient.

SEC. 775. In all cases in the supreme, circuit or chancery court, in which costs are recovered against a party, the

clerk shall tax as costs against such party a docket fee, as follows:

First.—In the supreme court, in actions by equitable proceedings, twenty dollars. In actions by proceedings at law, in

which the title or boundary of land is directly or indirectly in
question, twenty dollars. In all other actions at law, ten dollars.

Second.—-In the circuit or chancery court, in all actions in
which the title or boundary of land is directly or indirectly in
question, or for the enforcement of a vendor’s lien upon real
estate, twenty dollars. In other equity actions, ten dollars.
In other actions at law, five dollars.

Which shall be allowed to, and recovered by, the party
recovering costs, except as otherwise provided in this Code.
But there shall not be more than one docket-fee charged
against the same party In the same action.

CHAPTER III.

Duties of Sherijfs.

SRCTI0N-- , SECTION776. Sheriff to indorsc the day and hour or 7'78. Also, to make an arrest.
receiving process . ‘ 1'79. Not a sumeient return that he is kept
719. Sheriff may break doors to execute on‘ by force.

an attachment or order for the delivery of property.

SEC. 776. The sheriff shall indorse upon every summons, order of arrest or for the delivery of property, or of
attachment or injunction in his hands,_the day and hour it
was received by him.

SEC. 777. A sheriff’ having an order of attachment, or
for the delivery of property,may enter any building orenclosure
containing the property, to take it; and, if necessary for this
purpose, may break the building or enclosure, having first publicly demanded the property.

SEC. 778. A sheriff, having an order to arrest, may enter
any house or enclosure in which the party to be arrested may

be, to arrest him, and, if necessary for this purpose, may break
the house or enclosure, after having informed any one therein
of his object, or where no person appears to whom such
information can be given, after having publicly demanded the
person to be arrested, and, in either case, after having given
sufficient time for the house or enclosure to be opened.

SEC. 779. It shall not be a sufficient return of any pro»
cess, that the officer was kept oii‘ by force from executing it.

CHAPTER IV.

ulliscellaneozcs Provisions.

SEC'l‘ION- ' snc'rrox—
780. The Code regulates all civil proceed- 788. No action for Cliscove)-y 511311 beings in all courts. brought except in aid of action pend»
‘Z81. Duties of ministerial oilicers may be ing before code took effact,
P91'f01'm9d by ¢1ePntY- 789. Successive actions may be maintained
78?. Majority to not where authority is on a contract or transaction.
conferred on several Jointly. 790. Writ or no mat abolished.
733- Amrmation efllliwllent to 0831- 791. Provisional remedies may be granted
784. Mode of computing dass- by two justices of the peace.
735- A 800d b01111 ml)’ 138 executed in P1300 792. One of several parties may verify a
of a. defective one. pleading,
786- Personofered -8 Surety may be SW0“! 793. Execution of bond for discharging an
‘5 ‘° his 5“m°l°"°F- attachment, or for-obtaining attached
‘.82. Qualiilcations of sureties. property is an appearance,

SEC. 780. , This Code of Practice shall regulate the procedure in all civil actions and proceedings in the courts of this
State, and all laws coming Within the purview of its provisionsshall be repealed. Provided, however, That actions and proceedings commenced before this act goes into effect shall not
be affected by the provisions of this section, except that they
may conform to this Code as far as is practicable.

SEC. 781. Any duty enjoined by this Code upon a ministerial officer, and any act permitted to be done by him, may
be performed by his lawful deputy.

SEC. 782. An authority conferred upon three or more
persons may be exercised by the majority of them; and a
majority of three or more persons may do any act directed to
be performed by them.

SEC. 783. Whenever an oath is required by this Code,
the afiirmation of a person conscientiously scrupulous of taking
an oath, shall have the same effect. ‘

SEC. 784. Where a certain number of days are required
to intervene between two acts, the day of one only of the acts
may be counted. SECTION 785. When any bond, provided for by this Code,
is adjudged to be defective, a new and sufliicent one may be
executed in such reasonable time as the court may fix, with the
same elfect as if originally executed.

SEC. 786. The ministerial officer whose duty it is to take
a surety in any bond provided for by this Code, shall have the
right to require the person offered as surety to make affidavit
of his qualification, which affidavit may be made before such
officer; but any person interested may contest the sufficiency
of such surety upon the making of such affidavit. Provided,
It is made to appear that such surety 18 not suliicient, and an
officer who, in good faith, complies with this section, shall be
exempt from any liability to which he might otherwise be subject for taking insufficient surety.

SEC. 787. The surety in every bond provided for by this
Code must be a resident of this State, and Worth double the
sum to be secured, beyond the amount of his debts, and have
property liable to execution in this State equal to the sum to be
secured. Where there are two or more sureties in the same

bond, they must, in the aggregate, have the qualifications pre- scribed in this section.

SEC. 788. No action to Obtain a discovery shall be
brought, except in aid Of some other action pending, when this
Code takes effect:

Fz'rst.—-Thatywhere any person or corporation is liable, either
jointly or severally with others, by the same contract, an
action may be brought against any of the parties who are

liable, to obtain discovery of the names and residences of the
others, who are also liable.

Second.—In such actions, the plaintifff shall state in his complaint, in effect, that he has used due diligence, without success,
to obtain the information asked to be discovered, and that he
does not believe the parties to the contract, who are known to
him, have property sufficient to satisfy his claims. The complaint, and the cost of such action shall he paid by the plaintifff,
unless the discovery be resisted.

SEC. 789. Successive actions may be maintained upon
the same contract or transaction, whenever, after the former
action, a new cause of action has arisen therefrom.

SEC. 790. The writ of ne exeat, as a remedy in a civil
action, is abolished.

SEC. 791. Where by the provisions of this Code, a provisional remedy may be granted by thejudge of the court in
which the action is brought, or any circuit judge, or by the
probate judge, it may be granted by any two justices of the
peace of the county. '

SEC. 792. Where there are several plaintifffs, the verification of the complaint or reply may be made by any one of
them; and Where several defendants unite in the same answer
and defense, the verification may be by either of them.

SEC. 793. In an action where an attachment has been
granted, the execution by or for the defendant of a bond whereby
the attachment is discharged, or the possession of the attached
property is obtained or retained by him, shall be an appearance

of such defendant in the action.

CHAPTER V.

Provisions Respecting Existing ./lotions.

snc'rxoN— . szc'r1ox—
794. Code not to apply to existing suits, 795. Party is entitled to equitable relief
0300?‘ in 0013813 C3589- against judgments and proceedings

at law, brought before Code takes
en'ect.

SEC. 794. The provisions -of this Code do not apply to
the pleadings in actions or suits pending when it takes effect.
Such proceedings may be conducted in respect to pleadings as
if this Code had not been adopted, and no process, pleading,
deposition, notice, order, or judgment, or other step or proceeding in such suits, or appeal therefrom, shall be held to be invalid
or erroneous by reason of conforming to this Code, or for any
reason that would not render such step or proceeding invalid,
or erroneous under the provisions of this Code.

SEC. 795. Where, by the existing laws, a party would
be entitled to proceed by bill in chancery to enjoin a judgment
or other proceeding at law, in an action brought before this
Code takes effect, he may proceed in such cases for relief as if
this Code had not been adopted, and its provisions shall not
affect his case.

TITLE XVII.

THE COURTS TO WHICH THIS CODE APPLIES.

CHAYTER— CHAPTER-—
1. General provisions. 2. Circuit Courts.
CHAPTER I.

General Provisions.

ssc'no.-z- anemon796. This Code applies to all courts now 797. How courts hereafter created to be
existing or hereafter created. classed.

SEC. 796. The provisions of this Code shall apply to
and regulate the proceedings of all the courts of this State,
though not expressly enumerated, and of all that may hereafter

be created.

SEC. 797. Where courts have been, or may be hereafter
created, having a similar jurisdiction, in whole or in part, with
circuit courts, they shall be considered as circuit courts in the
meaning of this Code; where a similar jurisdiction with probate or justices’ courts, they shall be considered as probate
or justices’ courts, in the meaning of this Code.

CHAPTER II.

Circuit Courts.

8lC'l"l0N-- sECTIo.\°...
798- Code applies tocircuit courts. soe. Order of calling the docket in that
799. When actions changed from circuit court
to Chancery court. 803. Issues of law to bedecided when case
800. When issue in equity tried by Pu- called for defense,
laskicircuit Court‘ 804 When actions stand for trial.
801. What sections of this Code apply to 305_ Code ,,pl,m.S to pumski Chance,’
this (201111. C01”-t_

SEC. 798. The provisions of this Code shall regulate
proceedings in civil cases in the circuit courts of this State,
subject in respect to Pulaski Circuit Court, to the modifications
made in this chapter, which apply to that court alone.

SEC. 799. When, by the provisions of Title I, an action
commenced in the Pulaski Circuit Court by proceeding at law,
is changed into equitable proceedings, the court shall order it to
be transfered to the Pulaski Chancery Court. Whereupon,
the papers in the action, with a copy of the orders in the case
shall be delivered by the clerk to the clerk of the Chancery
court, who shall place the case upon the docket of that court,
and the action shall proceed as if originally brought therein.

SEC. 800. Where, by the provisions of Section 10, any

issue arising in an action, is to be tried in equity without a change of the whole action into equity, the trial of such issue
shall be by the Pulaski Circuit Court, and where all of the
issues were such, as before the adoption of this Code, were
cognizable in Chancery, and the defendant elects to have them
all tried in equity, the court shall order the action to be transferred to the Pulaski Chancery Court; whereupon the same
proceedings shall be had as are directed in the last Section.

SEC. 801. The provisions of section 390, 391, and 392,
shall not apply to the Pulaski Chancery Court.

SEC. 802. On each day of the term, the Court shall,
immediately after hearing the motions, call all the cases on the
common docket for that day, in which summons has been
served in due time, as provided in Section 126, and in which no

issue of‘ fact has been formed ; and upon failure to defend may
render judgment.

SEC. 803. The court may hear and decide all issues of

law in the actions as they are called, and render judgment, or
give further time for hearing and deciding them.

SEC. 804. An action by proceedings at law, shall stand
for trial at the first term after the process has been served on
the defendant, as provided in Section 135. An action upon
contract, wherein the summons has been served in due time,
as provided in that section, upon part only of the defendants, shall
stand for trial at the first term as to those so summoned, and
may be continued as to the others for further proceedings. In
other actions by proceedings at law, the plaintifff can only demand a trial as to part of the defendants, upon his discontinuing his action as to the others on the first day of the court.

SEC. 805. The provisions of this Code in regard to proceedings in equity cases, shall apply to the Pulaski Chancery
Court, except that the Chancellor may make such rules as he
deems proper in relation to frlin g pleadings, and setting down
cases for hearing. .

CHAPTER III.

Poll} co Courts. Ci-ty Courts, ./Mayors’ Courts, and Courts of
J ustioes of the Peace.

Au'ncLz— Q ARTICLE-—
1. Mode of proceeding. E 2. A ppcals from their judgment:-.

ARTICLE 1.

Jlfode of Proceeding.

Sl£C’I‘lO.\'—- SECTION COt1C‘-l'(.‘g‘lllilt(‘s the proceedings, ex- 817. New trials may be granted in ten
cept as provided in this Chapter. days.

807. To whom the summons to he directed- 813_ A record of proceedings to be kept‘

S08. Provisions of the Code as to clerk, Sm Dcpostions may be taken before jug
applies to judge or justice when they “ms of the peace_

“ct 35 clerk‘ ' 820. Each party may examine the other on

8“9' only ‘me “°°k°t' oath, or file interrogatories
S10. Pleadings oral whcretlie amonntdocs $1. Judgment to be rendered against 3

not exceed tlfty dollars. party who fails to attend or answer
811. Service of summons tlvc days. autlior- interrogatories am” due notice

izes 5“‘13'm°”t under MW dollars’ tea 822. Last two sections apply to appeals

days, over that sum. 8,23 H d t to be (1 d ,
812. How pleading to he completed. and ° thOewrejcl:)r§n:?ost re" cm W ‘en

trial progress. _ g
813. In equitable proceedings may take 824. Set-on‘ or counterclaim may be used
to bar p1aintin“s demand.

depositions or orally examine wit- _
825. When trial to be had when a provinesses.
814 Deliverv of a copy of the summons Sional remedy has been 5""‘t°d'
' 8%. Land not to be sold under executions.

not required. _ _ _
815 To whom the Slmunons is to be re_ 82?. How execution is to be obtained from
circuit court, which may be levied

turned.
816. In what cases trials liyjiiry allowed. on land‘

SEC. 806. The provisions in this Code shall regulate
the proceedings in civil actions in the probate court, police
courts, city courts, mayors’ courts, and courts of justices of the
peace, except as provided in this Chapter.‘

SEC. 807. The summons, orders for provisional remedies, and other process from courts of justices of the peace,
shall be directed to a constable; of the probate courts, either
to the sheriff, coroner, or a constable, at the option of the plaintifff; the police, city, or mayors’ courts, to the constable; but
the summons may be served by any officer or person authorized
by this Code to serve a summons. Justices of the peace shall
have power to appoint special agents to execute orders of
arrest, attachments and other provisional remedies, and the
summons which accompanies such orders, whenever an afiida#
vit is filed with such Justice, by the plaintifff or his agent, to
the effect that he believes that owing to the absence or dithculty of procuring a proper officer, the process or orders can

not be executed unless such special agent be appointed. The
appointment shall be made by an indorsement on the Writ or
order, which the agent is authorized to execute or serve, which
indorsement shall be signed by the Justice.

SEC. 808. The duties and powers enjoined and conferred in this Code upon clerks, shall devolve on magistrates in
their Own courts.

SEC. 809. Only one docket is required to be kept in the
probate courts, on which shall be entered the actions and motions as they shall be returned before them.

SEC. 810. In justices’ court, where the matter in controversy does not exceed fifty dollars, the pleadings in the action may be oral and Without verification. But before the
summons is issued, the plaintifff‘ shall file with the justice the
account, or the written contract, or a short written statement
of the facts on which the action is founded.

SEC. 811. In the actions named in the last section, the
service of the summons five days before the time of trial shall
authorize a trial and judgment. When the matter in controversy exceeds fifty dollars, the service of the summons ten days

before its return day shall authorize a trial and judgment,
where the proceedings are at law or in equity.

SEC. 812. On the calling of an action for trial, if the
summons has been served as prescribed in the last section, the
defendant shall put in his defense and the plaintifff his reply, if

a reply be necessary, and the trial forthwith proceed, unless
the court give further time, or grant a continuance.

SEC. 813. In actions by equitable proceedings the parties '

may either take the depositions of witnesses, or examine them
Orally in court.
SEC. 814. The delivery of a copy of the summons shall

not be necessary in its service, nor a copy of a subpena in its
service on a witness. ,

SEC. 815. The summons shall be returned for trial to the
justice who issued the same. Provided, That either party may
file an affidavit that he verily believes such justice will not give
him a fair and impartial trial, or in case such justice can not

properly preside, or refuse to act, the cause shall be transferred
to the next nearest justice. Provided further, That the same
party shall not be allowed to file such affidavit against exceeding two justices in the same case. Either party, at the calling
of the cause, may make an affidavit to that effect that he verily

’ believes he cannot obtain a fair and impartial trial in the township in which the action is pending; the party may embrace
in his affidavit one township in addition to the one in Which
the action is pending, and the opposite party may object in like
manner to the same number of townships, to which the party
making the application has objected; whereupon the justice
shall make an order for the change of venue to some justice in
a township to which there is no valid objection, and which is,
in his judgment, mostconvenient to the parties and their witnesses. The justice shall transmit the papers to the justice to
which the venue is changed, for which he shall receive ten cents
per mile to and from the residence of such justice, which shall
be taxed and collected as other costs in the ease.

SEC. 816. The parties shall not be entitled to a trial by
jury unless the matter in controversy exceeds in value sixteen
dollars. Upon a jury trial being claimed, where the same is
allowable, the justice shall order a jury to be forthwith empaneled to try the action. The jurors shall be qualified as required
in the circuit courts,'and the jury shall be composed of six
jurors, unless a less number is agreed upon by the parties.

SEC. 817. A new trial, or re-hearing may be granted in
courts of justices of the peace, upon motion made within ten
days after a judgment or final order has been made or rendered,
of which motion notice shall be given to the opposite party.

SEC. 818. Each probate judge or justice of the peace
shall, in a book provided for that purpose, keep a full and fair
record of his judicial proceedings in his court, and keep a cross
index of the names of the litigants, referring to the pages of
the books of every entry in each case.

SEC. 819. Depositions to be read in probate courts and
courts of justices of the peace, may be taken before an examiner, clerk of a court, -notary public, probate judge or justice

of the peace.

SEC. 820. Either party may examine the other on oath,
and for that purpose may cause him to be summoned to attend
the trial, if he resides in the county, or if he resides out of the
county, may file written interrogatories with the court, or magistrate, before whom the trial is to be had, together with an
affidavit that he believes the answers to them are necessary to
his obtaining justice, and cause a copy of said interrogatories
to be delivered to the party required to answer them, who shall
make out, swear to, and file with such court, or magistrate, on
or before the day of trial, a plain, direct response to the interrogatories, which may be read by either party.

SEC. 821. The court shall render judgment against the
party who refuses to attend and be examined when summoned
two days before the trial, or to make proper responses to interrogatories where a copy shall have been delivered to him three
days before the trial, where he resides within fifty miles of the
place of trial, and one additional day for every additional
thirty miles he may reside therefrom; but the court may grant
further time for attending or answering.

SEC. 822. The last two sections shall apply to circuit
courts upon the trial of appeals from judgments of justices of
the peace. .

SEC. 823. Where the record of a judgment of a justice’s court has been lost or destroyed, such court may, on
motion of the plaintifff, after five days’ notice, render a new
judgment for what may remain due thereon.

SEC. 824. A set-oil‘, or counterclaim, though exceeding
in amount the jurisdiction of the court, may be used to bar
and extinguish the demand of the plaintifff, but no judgment
shall be rendered in favor of the defendant for the excess unless such excess is within the limits of the court's jurisdiction
as to amount. The judgment shall ascertain the amount due
to the plaintifff, and give him a credit therefore on the claim
used as a set-off or counterclaim.

SEC. 825. Where an order for a provisional remedy has
been made by a judge or justice, in an action within the jurisdiction of their respective courts, and the order has been served

<or levied, the trial of the action, or disposition of the order
may take place at any time after five days’ notice to the defendant, without waiting for the regular term of such judge's or
justiee’s court, which notice may be given by the otiieer at the
time of serving; the summons or levying the order; and if the
justice, before whom the trial should be regularly had, is sick,
absent, or unable to act, the officer may return the case for
trial before the most convenient magistrate.

SEC. 826. Land shall not be levied on or sold under
execution from a justice’s court, or any court of similar jurisdiction. ’ ’

SEC. 82". \Vhen an execution on a judgment of a justice’s court, or court of similar jurisdiction, has been returned
by a constable, or other officer, either as to the Whole or a part
thereof, in substance, “no property found to satisfy the same,"
the plaintifff may obtain from the justice a certified copy of
the judgment and execution, and return and file the same in
the clerk's office of the circuit court of the county in which
the judgment was rendered, which copies shall be copied by
the clerk in a book kept for that purpose; and, thereupon, the
clerk shall issue writs of execution on the judgment for the
amount due ‘thereon and the costs, including the costs of the
copies by the justice and copying by the clerk, which shall be
levied and proceeded on as executions on» judgments of the
circuit court.

ARTICLE Il.

.,4ppe(Lls from their J udgnz-cuts.

sacs-|ox-- srwnow-—
829. now appeals are to be taken. 834. Where appellant moves to dismiss. or
828, Judge, justice. etc , to transmit all fails to prosecute the appeal.
original papers to the court to which
the appeal is taken.

I
I
I

£435. The judge, jn.sticc,ctc., to give party

desiring to appeal, cop_v_of judgment
830. How appeals to be doeketcd and tried. and amount of costs.
831' B°3““m°“5 “*3 l'° was ‘"1 appeals‘ 836. Appeals may be taken without giving
832. How eostsof inferiorcourt to be paid. bond.
833. Appeals tobe taken in sixty days.

SEC. 828. Appeals may be taken in the manner following: The party appealing shall produce, to the clerk of the
court to which the appeal is taken, a certified copy of the
judgment and amount of costs,'and cause to be executed before
said clerk, by one or more sullicient suretics to be approved by
the clerk, a bond to the effect that the appellant will satisfy
and perform the judgment that shall be rendered upon the
appeal; whereupon, the clerk shall issue an order tothe judge,
or justice rendering the judgment, to stay all further proceedings on the same, and to transmit to the office of said clerk, all
the original papers therein, and the appelleeshall be summoned actually or constructively, as provided in Chapter II, of Title IV, to appear and defend the appeal. Where a judge or
justice of the peace acts as clerk of his court, the provisions of
this section, in regard ‘to clerks apply to him.

SEC. 829. The judge or justice,_ on being served with
said order, shall, in ten days thereafter, transmit all of the

original papers in the action to the clerk's office of the court to
which the appeal is taken.

SEC. 830. Appeals shall be docketed and stand for trial
as actions by proceedings at law. The actions shall be tried
anew, as if no judgment had been rendered.

SEC. 831. Unless the judgment on the appeal is more
favorable to the appellant than the original judgment, he shall
pay the costs of the appeal. Where he merely succeeds ill
reducing the amount of a judgment rendered against him, it
shall be at the discretion of the court to allow him costs or not.

SEC. 832. The costs in the inferior court shall be adjudged in favor of the plaintifff, where he succeeds in obtaining,

on the appeal, ajudgment for any amount ; otherwise, in favor
of the defendant.

SEC. 833. No appeal shall be taken as provided in ans article, except within sixty days from the rendering of the
judgment.

SEC. 834. If the appellant moves to dismiss, or fails to
prosecute his appeal, it shall be at the option of the appellee
either to proceed to trial on the appeal, or have judgment rendered for the amount of the original judgment and costs where it was in his favor, or in bar of the original judgment, where it was against him.

SEC. 835. Whenever a party is desirous of taking an appeal, the judge, or justice before whom teh case is tried, shall deliver to him, upon application, a copy of the judgment and amount of costs, certified by him.

SEC. 836. Either party may take an appeal, as provided in this Article, without giving bond, as required in section 828, but such appeal shall not operate as a stay of the proceedings upon the judgment appealed from, and no order staying such proceedings shall issue upon an appeal unless bond is executed.

TITLE XVIII.

RULES OF COSTRUCTION OF THIS CODE. ‘
snc'r1oN- SECTION831. Certain words to have several dit- 849. Other country.
ferent meanings. 850. United States.
38. Terms explained in following sections 851. Persons of unsound mind.
to be construed accordingly. 85!. Oath.

839. Actions for the recovery of money. 853. Month.

840. Real property, . 854. Process.

841. Personal property. 855. Writ.

8”’ Pr°p°“3"' 856. Provisions of Code to beliberally con- .
843. Clerk. stmed_

844. Probate Judge.

8“ Shenn._ 857. All laws inconsistent with the Code
846. Coroner, Justice, Constable. r°p°“1°d°

817. Personal representative. 853. Provisions of Code not to be repealed

848. Foreign corporations. unless such intention expressed.

SEC. 837. Words used in this ‘Code in the past or
present tense, include the future as well as the past and present.

Words used in the masculine gender, include the feminine and
neuter; the singular number includes the plural, and the plural the singular; the word person includes a corporation as
well as a natural person; writing includes printing or printed
paper; signature or subscription, includes mark, when the

person cannot write, his name being written near it, and Wit-d

enessed by a person who writes his own name as a witness.

SEC. 838. The terms explained in the following sections
of this chapter have, in this Code, the significations attached
to them, unless it is otherwise apparent from the context.

SEC. 839. An action for the recovery of money, in the
meaning of this Code, includes an action for the recovery of
damages, as well as money due by contract.

SEC. 840. The words “real property,” mean lands, tenements, and hereditaments.

SEC. 841. The words “ personal property,” include
money, goods, chattles, things in action, and evidence of debt.

SEC. 842. The word “property” includes property, real
and personal.

SEC. 843. The word “clerk,” means the clerk of the

court in which the action is brought or is pending, or in which
the,,proceeding is had; and the words “clerk's oiiice,” mean

his office.
SEC. 844. The words “probate judge of the county,”

signify the probate judge of the county in which the action is
brought, or is pending, or in which the proceeding is had.

SEC. 845. The word “sheriff,” means the sheriff of the
county in which the action is brought or is pending, or in
which the proceeding is bad, or to whom the process is
directed; and where it is used in connection with any
process or order, or the execution thereof, or of any ministerial act, shall be taken to signify also any other oiiicer to
whom the process or order may be directed, and who may be
acting untler it, or by whom the ministerial act may be performed.

SEC. 846. The words “coroner,” “justice,” and “constable,” mean officers of the county in which the action is
brought or is pending, or in which the proceeding is had or
to whom the process is directed.

SEC. 847. The words “ personal representative,” signify
the executor or administrator of a deceased person, or the officer
or other person appointed to take charge of his estate.

SEC. 848. A “ foreign corporation” is one appointed by.the laws of some other State or country.

SEC. 849. The words “ other country,” signify any part;
of the World out of this State.
SEC. 850. The Words “United States,” embrace every

State in the Union, all the Teritories, and the District of Columbia.

SEC. 851. The Words’ “person of unsound mind,” inelude every person who is an idiot, lunatic, or deranged.

SEC. 852. The word “oath,” includes affirmation inany case in which it may be substituted for an oath, and in
like cases the Word “ sworn,” includes “ affirmed.” .

SEC. 853. The wOrd“month,” means calendar month

SEC. 854. “Process” is a writ or summons issued im
the course of judicial proceedings.

SEC. 855. “Writ” is an order or precept in writing,
issued by a court, clerk, or judicial OE cer.

SEC. 856. The rule of common law that statutes in«
derogation thereof are to be strictly construed, shall not beapplied to this Code. The provisions of this Code, and alb
proceedings under it, shall be liberally construed, with a view
to pr Jmote its object, and to assist the parties in obtaining justice. ,

SEC. 857. All statutes and laws heretofore in force in
this State in any case provided for by this Code, or inconsistent with its provisions, are hereby repealed and abrogated;
but this repeal does not revive any statute or law which may

have been repealed or abolished by the statutes Or laws hereby
repealed ; nor does it affect any right already existing, or any:

proceeding already taken, except as provided in this Code.

SEC. 858. No act shall have the effect to amend or
repeal, or be construed as amending or repealing any Title, Chapter, Article, Section, clause or provision of this Code,
unless such intention be expressly stated, and the Title, Chapter, Article or Section shall be particularly referred to,
and recited in the act amending or repealing the same.

TITLE XIX.

APPEALS TO THE SUPREME COURT.

0HAP’l'ER— CHAP‘l'ER—.

1- How granted. 3. Trial and decieion.
2. Supersedeas on appeals. '

CHAPTE R I.
How Granted.
u:c'r1oN-- SECTION...

839. All cases to be taken to the Supreme 885. An original paper may be brought up

Court by appeal. by aubpaua ducoo tooum.
860. The appellant and appellec. 866. When appellant may be required to
$1. When appellee to be summoned. | give security for costs.
$2. At what time appellant must tlle copy 861’. Appeals only granted in three years

of the record in Supreme Court. afterjudgment.
863. Appellee may nle copy of record. 868. Tax on appeals.
864. Either party may obtain from the

clerk a cortiorarl.

SEC. 859. The mode of bringing the judgment or final order of an inferior court to the Supreme Court for a reversal
or modification, shall be by appeal, which shall be granted as
a matter of right, either by the court rendering the judgment
or order, on motion made during the term at which it is rendered, or by the clerk of the Supreme Court in ;erm time or
in vacation, on application of either party.

SEC. 860. The party taking the appeal shall be called
the appellant, and the adverse party, the appellee.

SEC. 861. Unless the appeal is granted by the inferior
court, or the appellee enters his appearance in the Supreme
Court, he shall be summoned actually or constructively, as
provided in Chapter II, Title IV, of this Code, to appear and
answer the appeal.

SEC. 862. It shall be the duty of the appellant to file in
the clerk's office of the Supreme Court, within ninety days
after the appeal is granted, an authenticated copy of the record,
otherwise his appeal shall be dismissed, but the Supreme Court
may, for cause shown, extend the time of filing such copy. '

SEC. 863. The appellee may file an authenticated copy
of the record in the clerk’s office of the Supreme Court with
the same effect as if filed by the appellant.

SEC. 864. Where either party conceives that the copy of
the record is imperfect, the clerk of the Supreme Court shall,
on his application, issue a certiorari, commanding the clerk of
the inferior court to transmit to the Supreme Court, a true copy
of the omitted or imperfect part of the record, which part shall,
in general terms, be described in the writ.

SEC. 865. Where a view of an original paper in the action may be important to a correct decision of the appeal, the
court may have the same brought up by a subpena duces tecum,
directed to the clerk of the inferior court.

SEC. 866. The appellant may be required to give security for costs, under the same circumstances that plaintifffs in
civil action may be so required.

SEC. 867. An appeal shall not be granted, except within
three years next after the rendition of the judgment or order,

unless the party applying therefore was an infant, married ’

woman, or of unsound mind, at the time of its rendition, in
which cases, an appeal may be granted to such parties, or their
legal representatives, within one year after the removal of their
disabilities, or death, whichever may first happen.

SEC. 868. The tax on the appeal shall be two dollars
and fifty cents, one dollar of which shall go to the clerk, and

one dollar and fifty cents for the support of the Supreme Court
Library.

CHAPTER II.

Szopersedeas on ./1ppea.l.s'.

8l:C‘l'l0N— SECTION-—
seo. Appeals do not stay proceedings with- 8T3. Proeeetlings where the supersedeas
out supersdeas. bond is defective.
mo. supersedeas bond, its provisions. 874- Part of aiudsment may be stared by
8'71. When supersedeas to be issued by the 3“P°"3°d9‘*5clerk of the circuit court, and when 375- S“P°"5°‘l'~"‘5 ‘l°3“°‘lby the clerk of the Supreme Court.

S 872. Not to be issued by clerk of Supreme

Court till record or bond, or copy or
bond, filed.

SEC. 869. An appeal shall not stay proceedings on the
judgment or order, unless a supersedeas is issued.

SEC. 870. A supersedeas shall not be issued until the
appellant shall cause to be executed before the clerk of the
court which rendered the judgment or order, or the clerk of
the Supreme Court, by one or more sufficient sureties, to be approved by such clerk, a bond to the effect that the appellant
shall pay to the appellee all costs and damages that shall be
adjudged against the appellant on the appeal; also, that he
will satisfy and perform the judgment or order appealed from,
in case it should be afhrmed, and any judgment or order which
the Supreme Court may render, or order to be rendered by the
inferior court, not exceeding in amount or value, the original
judgment or order, and all rents or damages to property during
the pendency of the appeal, of which the appellee is kept out of
possession by reason of the appeal. Provided, That in all cases
where supersedeas is obtained by, or on behalf of, a personal
representative of a deceased person upon any judgment against

o

such decedent’s estate, or against such representative in his fiduciary capacity, to be a charge upon or collected from such
estate, the supersedeas bond shall only be to the effect that such
personal representative shall not commit or suffer any waste or
devastavit of such estate during the delay occasioned by the
supersedeas.

SEC. 871. Where the appeal was granted by the court
rendering the judgment or order, and the bond is executed
within thirty days thereafter, before the clerk of such court,
the supersedeas shall be issued by such clerk; in all other cases
it shall be issued by the clerk of the Supreme Court.

SEC. 872. A supersedeas shall not be issued by the clerk
of the Supreme Court until an authenticated copy of the record,
with a certified copy of the supersedeas bond-if it was executed before the clerk of the inferior court—shall be filed in
his office. i

SEC. 873. If the appellee believes the supersedeas bond

to be defective, or the sureties to be insufficient, he may more

the supreme court, if in session, or, on reasonable notice to
the appellant, may move a judge of said court, in vacation,
to discharge the supersedeas; and if the court or judge shall
consider the sureties insufficient, or the bond substantially defective in securing the rights of the appellee, the, court or judge
shall issue an order discharging the supersedeas, unless a good
bond, with sufficient sureties be forthwith executed. The
order, if made by a judge, shall be in writing, and signed by
him, upon the filing of which, or of a certified copy of the
order when made in court, in the clerk’s ofrice of the inferior
court, executions and other proceedings for enforcing the judgment or order may be immediately taken as if no supersedeas
had been issued. But another supersedeas may be issued by
the clerk of the Supreme Court upon the execution of a new
and lawful bond, with sufficient sureties, as hereinbefore provided.

SEC. 874. The supersedeas may be issued to stay proceedings on apart of a judgment or order, in which case the
bond shall be varied so as to secure the party superseded.

SEC. 875. The supersedeas is awritten order, signed by

a clerk, commanding the appellee, and all others, to stay proceedings on the judgment or order.

CHAPTER III.

Trial and Decision.

8zc'rxox—- sI:o'rxoN—

876. When appeals stand for trial. 884. Upon anirmance of certain Judg817. How the clerk toarrange the docket. ment, mandate may be nled in the

373- APPGUOG ma)‘. DY elm’? 01' 1‘000l‘d. clerk's office and executions issue.
Obi‘-8111 8 01‘0|5 DPPGEL 885. May enforce its mandates by tine and

879. No assignment of errors necessary. imprisonment.

880. Motion to dismiss appeal by appellee, 886. Judgments not to be reversed for
how made. errors amendable in inferior courts.

881. Appellee, by answer, may plead to 88?. Ten per cent. damages on the ammthe appeal. ance of Judgments for money which

882 Where appeal and supersedeas taken have been superseded.
for delay. appellee may move to 888. Court to deliver written opinion in
ailirm. certain cases.

ass. Court may make rules for conducting 889- Regulations as to reporting decisionsbusiness.
SEC. 876. Appeals shall stand for trial when the copy
of the record was filed in the clerk's office of the court twenty
days before the commencement of the term, and, where a summons is required, the appellee summoned twenty days before
the day on which the appeal is set for trial on the docket, or
the appearance entered before the day of trial.

SEC. 877. The clerk shall arrange the appeals upon the
docket, setting a proper number for each day of the term, and,
in arranging them, may have due regard to the convenience of
litigants, in placing together the appeals from the several judicial districts.

SEC. 878. The appellee, at any time before trial, by an
entry upon the records of the supreme court, may pray and
obtain a cross-appeal against the appellant, or any co-appellee,

in whose favor any question is decided prejudicial to such
party.

SEC. 879. No written assignment of error shall be
necessary, but the judgment may be reversed or modified for
any error appearing in the record to the prejudice of appellant
or cross-appellant.

SEC. 880. Where the appeal was improperly granted, or
the appellant's right of further prosecuting the same has ceased,
the appellee, in lieu of pleading, may move the court to dismiss the appeal, the grounds of which motion shall be stated
in writing, signed by the appellee or his counsel, and, if not
appearing on the face of the record, or by a writing purporting
to have been signed by the appellant, and filed, shall be veriiied
by affidavit. The motion shall not be heard or determined
before the day on which the appeal is set for trial on the docket

unless the appellant consents thereto. ’

SEC. 881. The appellee may, by answer filed and verified by himself, or agent, or attorney, plead any fact or facts
which renders the granting of the appeal improper, or destroys
the appellant's right of further prosecuting the same; to which
answer the appellant shall file a reply, likewise verified by affidavit of himself, agent, or attorney, and the questions of law
or fact thereon shall be determined by the court.

SEC. 882. Where an appeal, with a supersedeas, has
been taken for delay merely, the appellee may at any time
move the court to affirm the judgment or order as a delay case;
before making which motion, he or his counsel shall indorse
on the record, in substance, that he has carefully examined the
record, and believes the appeal is prosecuted for delay merely;
whereupon the court shall examine the record, and if they find
no error in the proceedings, and believe the appeal was prosecuted for delay merely, they shall affirm the judgment or order.
The appellee may, in open court, confess error at any time;
whereupon the case shall be reversed and remanded to the
court from which the appeal was taken.

SEC. 883. The Supreme Court may make rules for the

convenient dispatch of business, the preservation of order, the

argument of cases or motions, the manner and time of presenting motions or petitions for rehearing, the time of issuing its
mandates and decisions, and mode of enforcing its mandates
and orders, and may change the same: 1’roz'z'ded, That no
mandate shall issue, or decision become final, until after fifteen
juridical days from the time the decision was rendered, not including the days of recess, unless the court, in delay cases,
and in cases involving no ditiicult question of law or fact,
otherwise direct. It‘ the court shall take a recess, or adjourn,
or the term shall expire within fifteen days after a decision is
rendered, and a petition for a rehearing is filed in such case,
during said term, or shall within fifteen days after said court
has taken such recess or adjourned, or the term expired, be
presented to one of the judges of said court, and byhim ordered
to be filed by his written indorsement thereon, and is accordingly filed within said time, all proceedings upon the decision
and mandate therein shall be suspended until the tenth day of
the next succeeding term of said court, by which time said
petition shall be acted upon, unless the court shall otherwise
order. Prov2'ved, That the court may, in term time, or a judge
thereof‘ in vacation, enlarge the time for filing petitions for
rehearing, and order that all proceedings upon the decision he
stayed during such time.

SEC. 884. Upon the afiirmance of a judgment, order, or
decree of a court for the payment of money, or delivery of personal property, the appellee mayfile in the clerk’s office of such

court a copy of the mandate of aftirmance, upon which the
clerk shall indorse the time of its being filed, and thereupon
such writs of execution may he issued on the judgment, order,
or decree, as could be issued after the mandate had hcen entered in the court.

SEC. 885. The Supreme Court shall have power to enforce its mandates upon inferior courts and ollieers, by fine and
imprisonment, which imprisonment may be continued until
they are obeyed.

SEC. 886. A judgment or final order shall not he reversed for an error which can be corrected on motion in the

inferior courts, until such motion has been made there and
overruled. .

SEC. 887. Upon the atiirmance of a judgment, order or
decree, for the payment of money, the collection of which, in
whole or in part, has been superseded, as provided in this chapter, ten per centum damages on the amount superseded shall be
awarded against the appellant.

SEC. 888. The court must deliver written opinions in
all cases involving a principle of law not previously settled by
the court and reported.

SEC. 889. In the publication of the reported decisions of
the Supreme Court, it shall be the duty of the reporter to make a
short abstract of the facts of the case involved in the decision,
unless the facts sufficiently appear in the decision.
SEC. 890. This Act, known as the Code of Practice, in
civil actions, shall, so far go into effect, fromand after its
passage, that all proceedings in pursuance of its provisions, shall
be valid, but no proceeding before the first day of January,
1869, shall be rendered invalid by said Code. But on the 1st
day of January, 1869, this Code shall take effect for all purposes
and all proceedings shall conform to its provisions.



