
Sec. 39. At the opening of court on the day trial jurors have
been summoned to appear, the clerk must call the names of those sum
moned, and the court may then hear the excuses of jurors summoned.
The clerk must then write the names of the persons present and not ex
cused, upon separate slips or ballots of paper, and fold such slips so that
the names are concealed, and then, in the presence of the court, deposit
the slips or ballots in a box, which must be kept sealed until ordered by
the court to be opened.

Sec. 40. When thereafter an action is called for trial by the
court, such proceedings shall be had in empanelling the trial jury, as are
prescribed in chapter' eleven, Howell Code, " Of Proceedings in Criminal
Cases," or in chapter forty-five, Howell Code, "Of Proceedings in Crim
inal Cases," as the case may be.

Sec. 41. At the time appointed for a jury trial in police, justice,
or recorder's courts, the list of jurors summoned shall be called, and, if
they all attend, they shall constitute the jury unless excused or successfully
challenged, in which case enough others to complete the jury shall be forth
with summoned in the manner hereinbefore prescribed.

Sec. 42. All acts and parts of acts in conflict with the provisions
of this act are hereby repealed.
Sec. 43. This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its
passage.

Section 1. There shall be in this Territory but one form of civil
action for the enforcement or protection of private rights and the redress
or prevention of private wrongs.

Sec. 2. In such action the party complaining shall be known as
the plaintifff, and the adverse party as the defendant.

Sec. 3. When a question of fact not put in issue by the pleadings
is to be tried by a jury, an order for the trial may be made, stating dis
tinctly and plainly the question of fact to be tried; and such order shall be
the only authority necessary for a trial.

Sec. 4. Every action shall be prosecuted in the name of the real
party in interest, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.

Sec. 5. In the case of an assignment of a thing in action, the
action by the assignee shall be without prejudice to any set-off or other de
fense, existing at the time of, or before notice of, the assignment; but this
section shall not apply to a negotiable promissory note or bill of exchange,
transferred in good faith, and upon good consideration before due.

Sec. 6. An executor or administrator, a trustee of an express
trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute, may sue without joining
with him the persons for whose benefit the action is prosecuted.

Sec. 7. When a married woman is a party, her husband shall be
joined with her; except that:
1st. When the action concerns her separate property, she may sue alone;
2d. When the action is between herself and her husband, she may sue or
be sued alone.

Sec. 8. If a husband and wife be sued together, the wife may
defend for her own right.

Sec. 9. When an infant is a party he shall appear by guardian,
who may be appointed by the court in which the action is prosecuted, or by
a judge thereof.

Sec. 10. The guardian shall be appointed as follows:
1st. When the infant is plaintifff, upon the application of the infant, if
he be of the age of fourteen years; or if under that age, upon the applica
tion of a relative or friend of the infant;
2d. When the infant is defendant, upon the application of the infant, if
he be of the age of fourteen years, and apply within ten days after the ser
vice of the summons; if he be under the age of fourteen, or neglect so to
apply, then upon the application of any other party to the action, or of a
relative or friend of the infant.

Sec. 11. A father, or, in case of his death or desertion of his
family, the mother, may maintain an action for the injury or death of a
child; and a guardian, for the injury or death of his ward.

Sec. 12. All persons having an interest in the subject of the ac
tion and in obtaining the relief demanded may be joined as plaintifffs,
except when otherwise provided in this chapter.

Sec. 13. Any person may be made a defendant who has or claims
an interest in the controversy adverse to the plaintifff, or who is a necessary
party to a complete determination or settlement of the question involved
therein.

Sec. 14. Of the parties to the action, those who are united in in
terest shall be joined as plaintifffs or defendants; but if the consent of any
one who should have been joined as plaintifff cannot be obtained, he may
be made a defendant, the reason therefore being stated in the complaint;
and when the question is one of a common or general interest of many
persons, or when the parties are numerous and it is impracticable to bring
them all before the court, one or more may sue or defend for the benefit
of all.

Sec. 15. Persons severally liable upon the same obligation or in
strument, including the parties to bills of exchange and promissory notes
and sureties on the same or separate instruments, may, all or any of them,
be included in the same action, at the option of the plaintifff.

Sec. 16. An action shall not abate by the death or other disability
of a party, or by the transfer of any interest therein, if the cause of action
survive or continue. In case of the death or other disability of a party, the court, on motion, may allow the action to be continued by or against his
representative or successor in interest. In case of any other transfer of
interest, the action may be continued in the name of the original party, or
the court may allow the person to whom the transfer is made to be substi
tuted in the action.

Sec. 1?. The court may determine any controversy between parties
before it, when it can be done without prejucice to the rights of others or
by saving their rights; but when a complete determination of the contro
versy cannot be had without the presence of other parties, the court shall
order them to be brought in.
Of the Place of Trial of Civil Actions.

Sec. 18. Actions for the following cases shall be tried in the
county in which the subject of the action, or some part thereof, is situated,
subject to the power of the court to change the place of trial, as provided
in this chapter:
1st. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate or interest therein,
or for the determination in any form of such right or interest, and for in
juries to real property.
2d. For the partition of real property.
3d. For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property.

Sec. 19. Actions for the following causes shall be tried in the
county where the cause or some part thereof arose, subject to the like power
of the court to change the place of trial :
1st. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by statute, ex
cept that when it is imposed for an offense committed on a lake, river or
other stream of water, situated in two or more counties, the action may be
brought in any county bordering on such lake, river or stream, and opposite
to the place where the offense was committed.
2d. Against a public officer or person especially appointed to execute
his duties, for an act done by him in virtue of his office, or against a per
son who by his command or in his aid does any thing touching the duties
of such officer.

Sec^JQ. In allptjiercasgs thejtc£ion shall be tried in the county
in which the pgStios, or Boate-m thein, r-ooido at the commuiu-imml) uf fehe
notion, m lilm ill fi n liniil iimy vr fwmd; or if none of the parties reside in
the Territory, the same may be tried in any county which the plaintifff may
designate in his complaint; subject, however, to the power of the court to
change the place of trial, as pr^vid^ed in this chapter.

Sec. 21. The court &*$, on motion, change the place of trial in
the following cases :
1st. When the county designated in the complaint is not the proper
county.
2d. When there is reason to believe that an impartial trial cannot be had
therein.
3d. When the convenience of witnesses and the ends of justice would be
promoted by the change.
4th. When from any cause the judge is disqualified from acting in the
Of the manner of commencing Civil Actions.

Sec. 22. Civil actions in the district courts shall be commenced
by the filing of a complaint with the clerk of the couit in which the action is
brought and the issuance of a summons thereon.

Sec. 23. The clerk shall endorse on the complaint the day, month
and year the same is filed, and at any time after the filing, upon the appli
cation of the plaintifff or his attorney, the clerk shall issue a summons
directed to the defendant.*

Sec. 24. The summons shall state the parties to the action, the
court in which it is brought, the county in which the complaint is filed,
and require the defendant to appear and answer the complaint within the
time mentioned in the next section after the service of summons, exclusive
of the day of service; or that judgment by default will be taken against
him.

Sec. 25. The time in which the summons shall require the defend
ant to answer the complaint, shall be as follows:
1st. If the defendant is served within the county in which the action is
brought, twenty days.
/
2d. If the defendant is served out of the county, but in the district in
which the action is brought, thirty days.
3d. In all other cases, forty days.

Sec. 2G. There shall also be inserted in the summons a notice, in
substance as follows:
1st. In an action arising on contract for the recovery only of money or
damages, that the plaintifff will take judgment for a sum specified therein,
if the defendant tail to answer the complaint.
2d. In other actions, that if the defendant fail to answer the complaint,
the plaintifff will apply to the court for the relief demanded therein.

Sec. 27. In an action affecting the title to real property, the
plaintifff, at the time of filing the complaint, or at any time afterward, may
file with the recorder of the county in which the property is situated, a
notice of the pendency of the action, containing the names of the parties,
the object of the action, and a description of the property in that county
affected thereby. From the time of filing, only, shall the pendency of the
action be constructive notice to a purchaser or encumbrancer of the pro
perty affected thereby.

Sec. 28. The summons shall be served by the sheriff of the county
where the defendant is found, or by his deputy, or by a person specially
appointed by him, or appointed by a judge of the court in which the action
is brought. A copy of the complaint shall be served with the summons.
•As amended by act of 1865.
The summons shall be returned, with the certificate or affidavit of the offi
cer of its service, and of the service of the copy of the complaint, to the
office of the clerk in which the complaint is filed; such summons may also
. \be served by .any white male inhabitant over twenty-one years of age, and
returned as above directed, with his affidavit, showing the time and manner
of serving the same, and the complaint therewith.

Sec. 20. The summons shall be served by delivering a copy there
of attached to the copy of the complaint, as follows:
1st. If the suit be against a corporation, to the president or other head
of the corporation, secrej^rj, <:gasb^erW(grj:managing agent thereof, or to
any lawful agent appointee! for that purpose, m nnji rli Iin in ilm l'liiililin v*'4<
2d. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years, to such minor
personally, and also to his father, mother or guardian; or if theie be none
%
within the Territory, then to any person having the care and control of
f"~
such minor, or with whom he resides, or in whose service he is employed.
^>
3d. If against a person judically declared to be of unsound mind, or in£
capable of conducting his own affairs, and for whom a guardian has been
^
appointed, to such guardian.
A
4th. In all other cases, to the defendant, personally.
j

Sec 30. When the person on whom the service is to be made
y
resides out of the Territory, or is a corporation incorporated under the
£
laws of any other State or Territory, and doing busines as such corporation
V
within this Territory, or such person conceals himself to avoid the service
,
of summons, and the fact shall appear by affidavit to the satisfaction of the
court or judge thereof, or the probate judge of the county in which the
action is brought, and it shall in like manner appear that a cause of action
exists against the defendant in respect to whom the service is to be made,
or that he is a necessary and proper party to the action, such court or judge
may grant an order that the service may be made by publication of the
summons. When it is necessary to commence suit for the foreclosure of a
mortgage, or for the complete determination of the title of real estate
against the unknown heirs of any deceased party residing out of the Terri
tory, they may be sued as the unknown heirs of the deceased, and service .
of the summons may be made in the manner provided in this section. Vf
^ ^f
("2467) Sec. 31. The order shall direct the publication to be made in ^ ^*/^
some newspaper to be designated as most likely to give notice to the person
*/dFs
to be served, the last of which insertions shall be sixty days from the first.
In case of publication when the residence of a non-resident or absent
defendant is known, the court or judge shall also direct a copy of the sum
mons and complaint to be forthwith deposited in the postofficc, directed to
,
the person to be served at his place of residence. When publication is
*fl
ordered, personal service of a copy of the summons and complaint out of
™
the Territory shall be equivalent to publication and deposit in the postoffice; in either case the service of the summons shall be deemed complete
at the expiration of the time prescribed by the order for publication.*
•As amended by act of 186S.

Sec. 32. Where the action is against two or more defendants, and
the summons is served on one or more, but not on all of them, the plaintifff
may proceed as follows:
1st. If the action be against the defendants jointly indebted upon a con
tract, he may proceed against the defendant served, unless the court other
wise direct; and if he recover judgment it may be entered against all the
defendants thus jointly indebted, so far only as that it may be enforced
against the joint property of all, and the separate property of the defendant
served; or,
2d. If the action be against defendants severally liable, he may proceed
against the defendants served, in the same manner as if they were the only
defendants.

Sec 33. Proof of the service of the summons shall be as follows:
1st. If served by the sheriff or his deputy, the affidavit or certificate of
such sheriff or deputy; or
2d. If by any other person, his affidavit thereof; or
3d. In case of publication, the affidavit of the printer, or his foreman, or
principal clerk, showing the same; and an affidavit of a deposit of a copy
of the summons in the post-office, if the same shall have been deposited; or,
4th. The written admission of the defendant.

Sec 34. In case of service otherwise than by publication, the cer
tificate or affidavit shall state the time and place of the service.

Sec 35. From the time of the service of the summons and copy
of complaint in a civil action, the court shall be deemed to have acquired
jurisdiction, and to have control of all the subsequent proceedings. A
voluntary appearance of a defendant shall be equivalent to personal service
of the summons upon him.
Of the Pleadings in Civil Actions.

Sec 36. The pleadings are the formal allegations by the parties
of their respective claims and defenses, for the judgment of the court.

Sec 37. All the forms of pleadings in civil actions, and the rules
by which the sufficiency of the pleadings shall be determined, shall be those
prescribed in this chapter.

Sec 38. The only pleading on the part of the plaintifff shall be
the complaint or demurrer to the defendant's answer, and the only plead
ing on the part of the defendant shall be the demurrer, or the answer; a
copy of all pleadings, except the complaint, shall be served on the opposite
party or his attorney, if he has appeared within twenty days after a former
pleading has been served.

Sec 39. The complaint shall contain:
1st. The title of the action, specifying the name of the court and the
name of the county in which the action is brought, and the names of the
parties to the action, plaintifff and defendant.
2d. A statement of the facts constituting the cause of action in ordinary
and concise language.
3d. A demand of the relief which the plaintifff claims. If the recovery
of money or damages be demanded, the amout thereof shall be stated.

Sec. 40. The defendant may demur to the complaint within the
time required in the summons to answer, when it appears upon the face
thereof, either:
1st. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the defendant or
the subject of the action; or,
2d. That the plaintifff has not legal capacity to sue; or,
3d. That there is another action pending between the same parties for
the same cause; or,
4th. That there is a defect of parties, plaintifff or defendant; or,
5th. That several causes of action have been improperly united; or,
6th. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action.

Sec. 41. The demurrer shall distinctly specify the grounds upon
which any of the objections to the complaint are taken. Unless it do so,
it may be disregarded.

Sec. 42. The defendant may demur to the whole complaint, or
to one or more of several causes of action stated therein, and answer the
residue; or may demur and answer at the same time.

Sec. 43. If the complaint be amended, the amendments shall be
filed, and a copy served upon the defendant or his attorney, if he has ap
peared by attorney; otherwise a new summons shall issue thereon.

Sec. 44. When any of the matters enumerated in section forty
does not appear upon the face of the complaint, the objection may be taken
by answer.

Sec. 45. If no such objection be taken, either by the demurrer
or answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have waived the same, except
ing only the objection to the jurisdiction of the court, and the objection
that the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action.
(24855) Sec. 46. The answewof the defendant shall contain, first, in re
spect to each allegation of the complaint controverted by the defendant, a
specific denial thereof, or a denial thereof according to his information and
belief, or any knowledge thereof sufficient to form a belief.
Second, a statement of any new matter constituting a defense or counter
claim, in ordinary and concise language.*

Sec. 47. The counterclaim mentioned in the last section shall be
one existing in favor of the defendant and against a plaintifff, between
whom a several judgment might be had in the action, and arising out of
one of the following causes of action :
1st. A cause of action arising out of the transaction set forth in the
complaint as the foundation of the plaintifff's claim, or connected with the
subject of the action.
2d. In an action arising upon contract; any other cause of action arising
also upon contract, and existing at the commencement of the action.
• As amended by act of 1866.

Sec. 48. When cross-demands have existed between persons under
such circumstances that, if one had brought an action against the other, a
counterclaim could have been set up, neither shall be deprived of the ben
efit thereof by the assignment or death of the other; but the two demands
be deemed compensated, so far as they equal each other.

Sec. 49. The defendant may set forth, by answer, as many de
fenses and counterclaims as he may have. They shall each be separately
stated, and the several defenses shall refer to the causes of action which
they are intended to answer in a manner by which they may be intelligibly
distinguished.

Sec. 50. Sham answers and defenses may be stricken out on mo
tion.

Sec. 51. Every pleading shall be subscribed by the party or his
attorney, and when the complaint is verified by affidavit the answer shall
be verified also, except as provided in the next section.

Sec. 52. The verification of the answer required in the last sec
tion may be omitted, when an admission of the truth of the complaint
might subject the party to prosecution for felony.

Sec. 53. When an action is brought upon a written instrument,
and the compluint contains a copy of such instrument, or a copy is an
nexed thereto, the genuineness and due execution of such instrument shall
be deemed admitted, unless the answer denying the same be verified.

Sec. 54. When the defense to an action is founded upon a writ
ten instrument, and a copy thereof is contained in the answer, or a copy is
annexed thereto, the genuineness and due execution of such instrument
shall be deemed admitted, unless the plaintifff file with the clerk, five days
previous to the commencement of the term at which the action is to be
tried, an affidavit denying the same.

Sec. 55. In all cases of the verification of a pleading, the affi
davit of the party shall state that the same is true of his own knowledge,
except {is to the matters which are therein stated on his information or be
lief, and, as to those matters, that he believes it to be true. And where a
pleading is verified, it shall be by the affidavit of the party, unless he be
absent from the county where the attorney resides, or from some cause un
able to verify it, or the facts are within the knowledge of his attorney, or
other person verifying the same. When the pleading is verified by the
attorney or any other person except the party, he shall set forth in the affi
davit the reasons why it is not made by the party. When a corporation is
a party, the verification may be made by any other officer or agent thereof;
or when the Territory or any officer thereof in its behalf is a party, the
verification may be made by any person acquainted with the facts, except
that, in actions prosecuted by the attorney-general in behalf of the Terri
tory, the pleadings need not in any case be verified.

Sec. 56. It shall not be necessary for a party to set forth in a
pleading the items of an account therein alleged, but he shall deliver to the
adverse party, within five days after a demand thereof in writing, a copy of the account, or be precluded from giving evidence thereof. The court, or
a judge thereof, may order a further account, when the one delivered is too
general, or is defective in any particular.

Sec 57. If irrelevant or redundant matter be inserted in a plead
ing, it may be stricken out by the court on motion of any person ag
grieved thereby.

Sec 58. In an action for the recovery of real property, such
property shall be described, with its metes and bounds, in the complaint.

Sec 59. In pleading a judgment or other determination of a court
or officer of especial jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary to state the facts
conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment or determination may be stated
to have been duly given or made. If such allegation be controverted, the
party pleading shall be bound to establish, on the trial, the facts conferring
jurisdiction.

Sec 60. In pleading the performance of conditions precedent in
a contract, it shall not be necessary to state the facts showing such perform
ance; but it may be stated generally that the party duly performed all the
conditions on his part; and, if such allegation be controverted, the party
pleading shall establish on the trial the facts showing such performance.

Sec 61. In pleading a private statute, or a right derived there
from, it shall be sufficient to refer to such statute by its title and the day
of its passage, and the court shall thereupon take judicial notice thereof ;
except in this code it shall be sufficient to refer to the chapter by number
and its title.

Sec 62. In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be necessary
to state in the complaint any extrinsic facts for the purpose of showing the
application to the plaintifff of the defamatory matter out of which the cause
of action arose; but it shall be sufficient to state generally that the same
was published or spoken concerning the plaintifff, and if such allegation be
controverted, the plaintifff shall establish on the trial that it was so pub
lished or spoken.

Sec 63. In the actions mentioned in the last section, the defen
dant may, in his answer, allege both the truth of the matter charged as
defamatory and any mitigating circumstances to reduce the amount of
damages; and, whether he prove the justification or not, he may give in
evidence the mitigating circumstances.

Sec. 64. The plaintifff may unite several causes of action in the
same complaint, when they all arise out of :
1st. Contracts, express or implied; or,
2d. Claims to recover specific real property, with or without damages, for
the withholding thereof, or for waste committed thereon, and the rents and
profits of the same; or,
l
3d. Claims to recover specific personal property, with or without dam
ages, for the withholding thereof; or,
4th. Claims against a trustee, by virtue of a contract or by operation of
law; or,
5th. Injuries to character; or,
Cth. Injuries to person; or,
7th. Injuries to property. But the causes of action so united shall all
belong to one only of these classes, and shall affect all the parties to the
action, and not require different places of trial, and shall be separately
stated.

Sec G5. Every material allegation of the complaint, not specifi
cally controverted by the answers, shall, for the purpose of the action, be
taken as true. But the allegation of new matter in the answer shall be
deemed controverted by the adverse party, as upon a direct denial or avoid
ance, as the case may require.

Sec. G6. A material allegation in a pleading is one essential to
the claim or defense, and which could not bo stricken from the pleading
without leaving it insufficient.

Sec*. G7. After the decision of a demurrer, and on the payment
of the costs of the same, the defendant may answer upon such terms as the
court shall direct.

Sec. G8. The court shall, in furtherance of justice and on such
terms as may be proper, amend any pleadings or proceedings by adding or
striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name
of a party, or a mistake in any other respect, and may on like terms at
auy stage of the proceedings before judgment, allow either party to amcud
any pleadings or other paper in the case, when in the opinion of said court
such a course will the better enable it to do substantial justice between the
parties to the action, and may upon like terms extend the time in which
any pleading in a case may be made and filed, beyond that fixed by the pro
visions of this chapter. The court may likewise, upon such terms as may
be just and upon payment of costs, relieve a party or his legal representa
tive from a judgment, order or other proceeding taken against him through
his mistake, inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect; when from any
cause the summons and a copy of the complaint in an action have not been
personally served on the defendant, the court may allow, on such terms as
may be just, such defendant or his legal representative at any time within
two years after the rendition of any judgment in such action, to appear
and answer to the merits of the original action.*

Sec. G9. When the plaintifff is ignorant of the name of a defen
dant, such defendant may be designated in any pleading or proceeding by
any name; and when his true name is discovered the pleading or proceed
ing' may be amended accordingly.

Sec 70. In the construction of a pleading for the purpose of de
termining its effects, its allegations shall bo liberally construed, with a view
to substantial justice between the parties.

Sec. 71. The court shall, in every stage of an action, disregard
any error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings which shall not affect
the substantial rights of the parties; and no judgment shall bo reversed or
affected by reason of such error or defect.
•As amended by act of 1S77.
Of the Provisional Remedies in Civil Actions—Arrest and Bail.

Sec. 72. No person shall be arrested in a civil action, except as
prescribed by this chapter.

Sec 73. The defendant may be arrested as hereinafter prescribed,
in the following cases arising after the passage of this chapter:
1st. In an action for the recovery of money or damages, on a cause of
action arising upon contract, express or implied, when the defendant is
about to depart from the Territory, with intent to defraud his creditors, or
when the action is for willful injury to person, to character or to property,
knowing the property to belong to another.
2d. In an action for a fine or penalty, or for money or property em
bezzled or fraudulently misapplied, or converted to his own use, by a public
officer; or an officer of a corporation, or an attorney, factor, broker, agent
or clerk, in the course of his employment as such; or by any other person -i
in a fiduciary capacity, or for misconduct or neglect in office, or in a. pro
fessional employment; or for a willful violation .of duty.
3d. In an action to recover the possession of personal property unjustly
detained, when the property, or any part thereof, has been concealed, re
moved or disposed of, so that it cannot be found or taken by the officer.
4th. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in contracting the
debt, or incurring the obligation for which the action is brought, or in con
cealing or disposing of the property, for the taking, detention or conver
sion of which the action is brought.
5th. When the defendant has removed or disposed of his property, or is
about to do so, with intent to defraud his creditors.

Sec. 74. An order for the arrest of the defendant shall be ob
tained from a judge of the court in which the action is brought.

Sec. 75. The order may be made whenever it shall appear to the
judge, by the affidavit of the plaintifff or some other person, that a sufficient
cause of action exists; and that the case is one of those mentioned in sec
tion seventy-three. The affidavit shall be either positive, or upon informa
tion and belief; and when upon information and belief, it shall state the
facts upon which the information and belief are founded. If an order of
arrest be made, the affidavit shall be filed with the clerk of the court.

Sec. 76. Before making the order the judge shall require a
written undertaking on the part of the plaintifff, with sureties, to the effect
that if the defendant recover judgment, the plaintifff will pay all costs and
charges that may be awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he
may sustain by reason of the arrest, not exceeding the sum specified in the
undertaking, which shall be at least five hundred dollars. Each of the
sureties shall annex to the undertaking an affidavit that he is a resident and
householder, or freeholder within the Territory, and worth double the sum
specified in the undertaking, over and above all his debts and liabilities,
exclusive of property exempt from execution. The undertaking shall be
filed with the clerk of the court.

Sec. 77. The order may be made to accompany the summons, or
any other time afterward and before judgment. It shall require the sheriff
of the county where the defendant may be found forthwith to arrest him
and hold him to bail in a specified sum, and to return the order at a time
therein mentioned to the clerk of the court in which the action is pending.

Sec 78. The order of arrest, with a copy of the affidavit upon
which it is made, shall be delivered to the sheriff, who, upon arresting the
defendant, shall deliver to him the copy of the affidavit; and also, if desired,
a copy of the order of arrest.

Sec 79. The sheriff shall execute the order by arresting the de
fendant, and keeping him in custody until discharged by law.

Sec. 80. The defendant, at any time before execution, shall be
discharged from the arrest, either upon giving bail or upon depositing the
amount mentioned in the order of arrest, as provided in this chapter.

Sec 81. The defendant may give bail, by causing a written
undertaking to be executed by two or more sufficient sureties, stating their
places of residence and occupations, to the effect that they are bound in
the amount mentioned in the order of arrest; that the defendant shall, at
all times, render himself amenable to the process of the court during the
pendency of the action, and to such as may be issued to enforce the judg
ment therein; or that they will pay to the plaintifff the amount of any
judgment which may be recovered in the action.

Sec 82. At any time before judgment, or within ten days there
after, the bail may surrender the defendant in their exoneration, or he may
surrender himself to the sheriff of the county where he was arrested.

Sec 83. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the
bail, at any time or place before they are finally charged, may themselves
arrest him, or by a written authority, indorsed on a certified copy of the
undertaking, may empower the sheriff to do so. Upon the arrest of the
defendant by the sheriff, or upon his delivery to the sheriff by the
bail, or upon his own surrender the bail shall be exonerated; provided,
such arrest, delivery or surrender, take place before the expiration of ten
days after judgment; but if such arrest, delivery or surrender be not made
within ten days after judgment, the bail shall be finally charged on their
undertaking, and be bound to pay the amount of the judgment within ten
days thereafter.

Sec 84. If the bail neglect or refuse to pay the judgment within
ten days after they are finally charged, judgment against such bail for the
amount of such original judgment may be, by order of the court, upon
affidavit of such neglect or refusal, entered against the bail.

Sec 85. The bail shall also be exonerated by the death of the
defendant, or his imprisonment in a Territorial prison, or by his legal dis
charge from the obligation to render himself amenable to the process.

Sec 86. Within the time limited for that purpose the sheriff
shall file the order of arrest in the office of the clerk of the court in which
the action is pending, with his return indorsed thereon, together with a copy of the undertaking of the bail. The original undertaking he shall
retain in his possession until filed, as herein provided. The plaintifff, with
in ten days thereafter, may serve upon the sheriff a notice that he does not
accept the bail, or he shall be deemed to have accepted them, and the
sheriff shall be exonerated from liability. If no notice be served within
ten days, the original undertaking shall be filed with the clerk of the court.

Sec 87. Within five days after the receipt of notice, the sheriff
or defendant may give to the plaintifff, or his attorney, notice of the justi
fication of the same or other bail (specifying the places of residence and
occupations of the latter), before a judge of the court or district clerk, at
a specified time and place; the time to be not less than five nor more than
ten days thereafter, except by consent of parties. In case other bail be
given there shall be a new undertaking.

Sec. 88. The qualifications of bail shall be as follows:
1st. Each of them shall be a resident and householder or freeholder with
in the county.
2d. Each shall be worth the amount specified in the order of arrest, or
the amount to which the order is reduced, as provided in this chapter, over
and above all his debts and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from
execution; but the judge or district clerk, on justification, may allow more
than two sureties to justify severally in amounts less than that expressed
in the order, if the whole justification be equivalent to that of two suffici
ent bail.

Sec 89. For the purpose of justification, each of the bail shall
attend before the judge or district clerk at the time and place mentioned
in the notice, and may be examined on oath on the part of the plaintifff,
touching his sufficiency, in such manner as the judge or clerk, in his dis
cretion, may think proper. The examination shall be reduced to writing,
and subscribed by the bail, if required by the plaintifff.

Sec 90. If the judge or clerk find the bail sufficient, he shall an
nex the examination to the undertaking, indorse his allowance thereon, and
cause them to be filed, and the sheriff shall thereupon |be exonerated from
liability.

Sec 91. The defendant may, at the time of his arrest, instead of
giving bail, deposit with the sheriff the amount mentioned in the order.
In case the amount of the bail be reduced, as provided in this chapter, the
defendant may deposit such amount instead of giving bail. In either case,
the sheriff shall give the defendant a certificate of the deposit made, and
the defendant shall be discharged out of custody.

Sec 92. The sheriff shall immediately after the deposit pay the
same into court, and take from the clerk receiving the same two certificates
of such payment, the one of which he shall deliver or transmit to the plain
tiff or his attorney, and the other to the defendant. For any default in
making such payment, the same proceedings may be had on the official
bond of the sheriff to collect the sum deposited as in other cases of delin
quency.

Sec. 93. If money be deposited, as provided in the last two sec
tions, bail may be given, and may justify upon notice at any time before
judgment; and on the filing of the undertaking and justification with the
clerk, the money deposited shall be refunded by such clerk to the defendant.

Sec. 94. Where money shall have been deposited, if it remain on
deposit at the time of a recovery of a judgment in favor of the plaintifff,
the clerk shall, under the direction of the court, apply the same in satis
faction thereof, and after satisfying the judgment shall refund the surplus,
if any, to the defendant. If the judgment be in favor of the defendant,
the clerk shall, under like direction of the court, refund to him the whole
sum deposited and remaining unapplied.

Sec. 95. If, after being arrested, the defendant escape or be
rescued, the sheriff shall himself be liable as bail; but he may discharge
himself from such liability by the giving and justification of bail, at any
time before judgment.

Sec. 96. If a judgment be recovered against the sheriff, upon his
liability as bail, and an execution thereon be returned unsatisfied in whole
or in part, the same proceedings may be had, on his official bond, for the
recovery of the whole or any deficiency as in other cases of delinquency.
(2533; Sec. 9?. A defendant arrested may, at any time before the justi
fication of bail, apply to the judge who made the order or the court in
which the action is pending, upon reasonable notice to the plaintifff to va
cate the order of arrest, or to reduce the amount of bail. If the applica
tion be made upon affidavits on the part of the defendant, but not otherwise,
the plaintifff may oppose the same by affidavits or other proofs, in addition
to those on which the order of arrest was made.

Sec. 98. If upon such application it shall satisfactorily appear that
there was not sufficient cause for the arrest, the order shall be vacated; or
if it satisfactorily appear that the bail was fixed too high, the amount shall
be reduced.
Claims and Delivery of Personal Property.

Sec. 99. The plaintifff, in an action to recover the possession of
personal property, may, at the time of issuing the summons, or at any time
before answer, claim the delivery of such property to him as provided in
this chapter.

Sec. 100. Where a delivery is claimed, an affidavit shall be made
by the plaintifff or by some one in his behalf, showing:
1st. That the plaintifff is the owner of the property claimed (particularly
describing it), or is lawfully entitled to the possession thereof;
2d. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant.
3d. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, according to his best
knowledge, information and belief;
4th. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment or fine, pur
suant to a statute; or seized under an execution or an attachment against
the property of the plaintifff; or, if so seized, that it is by statute exempt
rom such seizure; and,
5th. The actual value of the property.

Sec. 101. A judge or clerk of the court in which the action is
brought, shall thereupon, by an indorsement in writing upon the affidavit,
order the sheriff of the county whore the property claimed may be to tako
the same from the defendant and deliver it to the plaintifff, upon receiving
the undertaking mentioned in the next section.

Sec. 102. Upon the receipt of the affidavit and order, with a writ
ten undertaking executed by two or more sufficient sureties, approved by
the sheriff, to the effect that they are bound in double the value of the
property as stated in the affidavit, for the prosecution of the action and for
the return of the property to the defendant, if return thereof bo adjudged,
and for the payment to him of such sum as may, for any cause be recov
ered against the plaintifff, the sheriff shall forthwith take the property de
scribed in the affidavit, if it be in the possession of the defendant or his
agent, and retain it in his custody. He shall also without delay serve on
the defendant a copy of the affidavit, order and undertaking, by delivering
the same to him personally if he can be found, or to his agent from whoso
possession the property is taken, or, if neither can be found, by leaving
them at the usual place of abode of either with some person of suitable ago
and discretion; or, if neither have any known place of abode, by putting
them into the nearest post-office directed to the defendant.

Sec. 103. The defendant may, within two days after the servico
of a copy of the affidavit and undertaking, give notice to the sheriff that
he excepts to the sufficiency of the sureties. If ho fails to do so he shall
be deemed to have waived all objections to them. When the defendant
excepts, the sureties shall justify on notice in like manner as upon bail on
arrest; and the sheriff shall be responsible for the sufficiency of the sureties
until the objection to them is either waived as above provided, or until they
justify. If the defendant except to the sureties he cannot reclaim the pro
perty, as provided in the next section.

Sec. 104. At any timo before the delivery of the property to tho
plaintifff the defendant may, if he do not except to the sureties of the plain
tiff, require the return thereof, upon giving to the sheriff a written under
taking, executed by two or more sufficient sureties, to tho effect that they
are bound in double the value of the property as stated in the affidavit of
the plaintifff for the delivery thereof to the plaintifff, if such delivery bo
adjudged, and for tho payment to him of such sum as may for any causo
be recovered against tho defendant. If a return of tho property be not so
required within five days after the taking and service of notice to the de
fendant, it shall be delivered to tho plaintifff, except as provided in section
one hundred and nine.

Sec. 105. The defendant's sureties, upon notice to the plaintifff of
not less than two or more than five days, shall justify before a judge or
district clerk, in the same manner as upon bail on arrest; and upon such
justification the sheriff shall deliver the property to the defendant. Tho
sheriff shall bo responsible for tho defendant's sureties until they justify, or until the justification is completed or expressly waived, and may retain
the property until that time; if they, or others in their place, fail to justify
at the time and place appointed, he shall deliver the property to the plain
tiff.

Sec 106. The qualification of sureties and their justification
shall be such as are prescribed by this chapter in respect to bail upon an
order of arrest.

Sec 107. If the property, or any part thereof, be concealed in
a building or enclosure, the sheriff shall publicly demand its delivery; if it
be not delivered, he shall cause the building or enclosure to be broken open,
and take the property into his possession; and, if necessary, he may call to
his aid the power of his county.

Sec 108. When the sheriff shall have taken property, as in this
chapter provided, he shall keep it in a secure place, and deliver it to the
party entitled thereto, upon receiving his lawful fees for taking and his
necessary expenses for keeping the same.

Sec 109. If the property taken be claimed by any other person
than the defendant or his agent, and such person make affidavit of his title
thereto, or right to possession thereof, stating the grounds of such title or
right, and serve the same upon the sheriff, the sheriff shall not be bound to
keep the property, or deliver it to the plaintifff, unless the plaintifff, on de
mand of him or his agent, indemnify the sheriff against such claim, by an
undertaking, by two sufficient sureties, accompanied by their affidavits,
that they are each worth double the value of the property as specified in
the affidavit of the plaintifff, over and above their debts and liabilities, ex
clusive of property exempt from execution, and are freeholders or house
holders in the county; and no claim to such property by any other person
than the defendant or his agent shall be valid against the sheriff unless so
made.

Sec. 110. The sheriff shall file the order and affidavit with his
proceedings thereon with the clerk of the court in which the action is pend
ing, within twenty days after taking the property mentioned therein.
Injunction.

Sec 111. An injunction is a writ or order requiring a person to
refrain from a particular act. The order or writ may be granted by the
court in which the action is brought, or by a judge thereof, and when
made by a judge, may be enforced as the order of the court.

Sec 112. An injunction may be granted in the following cases:
1. When it shall appear by the complaint that the plaintifff is entitled to
the relief demanded, and such relief, or any part thereof, consists in re
straining the commission or continuance of the act complained of, either
for a limited period or perpetually.
2. When it shall appear by the complaint or affidavit that the commis
sion or continuance of some act during the litigation would produce great
or irreparable injury to the plaintifff,
3. When it shall appear during the litigation that the defendant is doing,
or threatens or is about to do, or is procuring or suffering to be done, some
act in violation of the plaintifff's rights respecting the subject of the action,
and tending to render the judgment ineffectual.

Sec. 113. The injunction may be granted at the time of issuing
the summons upon the complaint;. and at any time afterward, before judg
ment upon affidavits. The complaint in the one case, and the affidavits in
the other, shall show satisfactorily that sufficient grounds exist therefore.
No injunction shall be granted on the complaint, unless it be verified by
the oath of the plaintifff, or some one in his behalf, that he, the person
making the oath, has read the complaint, or heard the complaint read, and
knows the contents thereof, and the same is true of his own knowledge,
except the matters therein stated on information and belief; and that, as
to those matters, he believes it to be true. When granted on the com
plaint, a copy of the complaint and verification attached shall be served
with the injunction; when granted upon affidavit, a copy of the affidavit
shall be served with the injunction.

Sec. 114. An injunction shall not be allowed after the defendant
has answered, unless upon notice or upon an order to show cause; but in
such case the defendant may be restrained until the decision of the court or
judge granting or refusing the injunction.

Sec. 115. On granting an injunction, the court or judge shall re
quire, except where the people of the Territory are a party plaintifff, a
written undertaking on the part of the plaintifff, with sufficient sureties, to
the effect that the plaintifff will pay to the party enjoined such damages,
not exceeding an amount to be specified, as such party may sustain by
reason of the injunction, if the court finally decide that the plaintifff was
not entitled thereto.

Sec. 116. If the court or judge deem it proper that the defend
ant, or any of several defendants, should be heard before granting the in
junction, an order may be made requiring cause to be shown at a specified
time and place why the injunction should not be granted; and the defend
ant may in the meantime be restrained.

Sec. 117. An injunction to suspend the general and ordinary
business of a corporation shall not be granted except by the court or judge;
nor shall it be granted without due notice of the application therefore to
the paapgr officers of the corporation, except when this Territory is a party
to the proceeding.

Sec. 118. If an injunction be granted without notice, the defend
ant, at any time before the trial, may apply, upon reasonable notice to the
judge who granted the injunction or to the court in which the action is
brought, to dissolve or modify the same. The application may be made
upon the complaint and the affidavit on which the injunction was granted,
or upon affidavit on the part of the defendant, with or without the answer.
If the application be made upon affidavits on the part of the defendant,
but not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose the same by affidavits or other
evidence in addition to those on which the injunction was granted.

Se<j. 119. If, upon such application, it satisfactorily appear that
there is not sufficient ground for the injunction, it shall bo dissolved; or, if
it satisfactorily appear that the extent of the injunction is too great, it shall
be modified.
Attachment.

Sec. 120. The plaintifff at tho time of issuing his summons, or
any time afterward, may have the property of tho defendant attached as
security for the satisfaction of any judgment that may bo recovered, unless
tho defendant give security to pay such judgment as hereinafter provided
in the following cases:
.1. In an action upon a contract, express or implied, for the direct pay
ment of money, which contract was made, or is payable in this Territory,
and is not secured by a mortgage, lien or pledge, upon real or personal pro
perty, or if so secured, that such security has been rendered nugatory by
the act of the defendant.
2. In an action upon a contract, expressed or implied, for the direct pay
ment of money, against a defendant not residing in this Territory.*

Sec 121. Tho clerk of the court shall issue the writ of attach
ment upon receiving an affidavit by, or on behalf of the plaintifff, which
shall be filed, showing:
1. That the defendant is indebted to the plaintifff (specifying the amount
of such indebtedness, over and above all legal set-offs or counterclaims)
upon a contract expressed or implied, for the direct payment of money, and
that such contract was made, or is payable in this Territory, and that tho
payment of the same has not been secured by any mortgage, lien or pledge
upon real or personal property; or
2. That the defendant is indebted to the plaintifff (specifyI ngj;he amount
of such indebtedness, as near as may be, over and above all legal set-offs or
counterclaims), and that the defendant is a non-resident of this Territory;
and
3. That the sum for which the attachment is asked is a bona fide existing
debt due, and owing from the defendant to the plaintifff, and that tho
attachment is not sought, and the action is not prosecuted to hinder, delay
or defraud any creditor or creditors of the defendant.*

Sec. 122. Before issuing tho writ the clerk shall require a written
/]Q I undertaking on the part of the plaintifff, in a sum not less than d*»We the
' *--' amount claimed by the plaintifff with sufficient sureties to the effect that if
the defendant recover judgment the plaintifff will pay all costs that may bo
awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he may sustain by reason
of the attachment, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking.

Sec. 123. The writ shall bo directed toj&c sheriff of any county
in which property of such defendant maybe, and require him to attach
and safely keep all the property of such defendant within his county, not
exempt from execution, or so much thereof as may bo sufficient to satisfy the plaintifff's demand, the amount of which shall be stated in conformity
with the complaint, unless the defendant give him security, by the under
taking of at least two sufficient .sureties iu an amount sufficient to satisfy
such demands with costs, or in any amount equal to the value of the pro
perty which has been, or is about to be attached, in which case the sheriff
will take such undertaking. Several writs may be issued at the same time
to sheriffs of different counties.*

Sec. 124. The rights or shares which the defendant may have in
the stock of any corporation or company, together with the interest and
profits thereon, and all debfS due such defendant, and all other property in
this Territory of such defendant not exempt from execution, may be
attached, and, if judgment be recovered, be sold to satisfy the judgment
and execution.

Sec. 125. The sheriff to whom the writ is directed and delivered
shall execute the same withou^delay, and if the undertaking mentioned in
section one hundred and tsrenty-three be not given, as follows:
1st. Real property shall beiWfciched by leavina a copy of the writ with
the occupant thereof; or, if there be no occupant* bv posting a copy in a
conspicuous place thereon, and filing a copy, together with a description of
the property attached, with the recorder of the county.
.'.'d. Personal property capable of manual delivery shall be attached by
taking it into custody.
3d. Stock or shares, or interest in stock or shares, of any corporation or
company, -shall be attached by leaving with the president, or other head of
the same, or the secretary, cashier or managing agent thereof, a copy of
the writ, and a notice stating that the stock or interest of the defendant is
attached in pursuance of such writ.
4th. Debts and credits, and other personal property, not capable of
manual delivery, shall be attached by leaving with the person owing such
debts, or having in his possession or under his control such credits, or other
personal property, a copy of the writ, and a notice that the debts owing by
him to the defendant or the creditors, and other personal property in his
possession or under his control, belonging to the defendant, arc attached in
pursuance of such writ.

Sec. 126. Upon receiving information in writing from the plain
tiff, or his attorney, that any person has in his possession or under his con
trol anvcredits or other personal property belonging to the defendant, or
is owing any debt to the defendant, the sheriff shall serve upon such person
a copy of the writ, and a notice that such credits, or other property or
debts, as the case may be, are attached iu pursuance of such writ.

Sec. 127. All persons having in their possession, or under their
control, any credits or othor personal property belonging to the defendant,
or owing any debts to the defendant, at the time of service upon them of a
copy of the writ and notice, as provided in the last two sections, shall be,
unless such property be delivered up or transferred, or such debts be paid
•A* amouded-by act of 1877.
to the sheriff, liable to the plaintifff for the amount of such credits, pro
perty or debt, until the attachment be discharged, or any judgment re
covered by him be satisfied.

Sec. 128. Any person owing debts to the defendant, or having in
his possession or under his control any credits or other personal property
belonging to the defendant, may be required to attend before the court or
judge, and be examined on oath respecting the same. The defendant may
also be required to attend for the purpose of giving information respecting
his property, and may be examined on oath. The court or judge may,
after such examination, order personal property capable of manual delivery
to be delivered to the sheriff on such terms as may be just, having reference
to any liens thereon, or claims against the same, and a memorandum to be
given of all other personal property, containing the amount and description
thereof.

Sec. 129. The sheriff shall make a full inventory of the property
attached, and return the same with the writ. To enable him to make such
return as to debts and credits attached, he shall request, at the time of ser
vice, the party owing the debt or having the credit to give him a memoran
dum stating the amount and description of each; and, if such memorandum
be refused, he shall return the fact of refusal with the writ. The party re
fusing to give the memorandum may be required to pay the costs of any
proceedings taken for the purpose of obtaining information respecting the
amount and description of such debt or credit.

Sec. 130. If any of the property attached be perishable, the
sheriff shall sell the same in the manner in which such property is sold on
execution. The proceeds and other property attached by him shall be re
tained by him to answer any judgment that may be recovered in the action,
unless sooner subjected to execution upon another judgment recovered pre
vious to the issuing of the attachment. Debts and credits attached maybe
collected by him, if the same can be done without suit. The sheriff's re
ceipt shall be a sufficient discharge for the amount paid.

Sec. 131. If any personal property attached be claimed by a third
person as his property, the sheriff may summon a jury of six men to try
the validity of such claim, and such proceedings shall be had thereon, with
the like effect, as in case of a claim after levy upon execution.

Sec. 132. If judgment be recovered by the plaintifff, the sheriff
shall satisfy the same out of the property attached by him which has not
been delivered to the defendant or a claimant as hereinbefore provided, or
subjected to execution on another judgment recovered previous to the issu
ing of the attachment, if it be sufficient for that purpose:
1st. By paying to the plaintifff the proceeds of all sales of perishable
property sold by him, or of any debts or credits collected by him, or so
much as shall be necessary to satisfy the judgment.
2d. If any balance remain due, and an execution shall have been issued
on the judgment, he shall sell under the execution so much of the prop
erty, real or personal, as may be necessary to satisfy the balance, if enough for that purpose remain in his hands. Notices of the sales shall be given,
and the sales conducted as in other cases of sales on execution.

Sec. 133. If, after selling all the property attached by him re
maining in his hands, and applying the proceeds, together with the pro
ceeds of any debts or credits collected by him, deducting his fees, to the
payment of the judgment, any balance shall remain due, the sheriff shall
proceed to collect such balance as upon an execution in other cases.
Whenever the judgment shall have been paid, the sheriff, upon reasonable
demands, shall deliver over to the defendant the attached property remain
ing in his hands and any proceeds of the property attached unapplied on
the judgment.

Sec. 134. If the execution be returned unsatisfied, in whole or in
part, the plaintifff may prosecute any undertaking given, pursuant to sec
tion one hundred and twenty-three or section one hundred and thirtyseven, or he may proceed as in other cases upon the return of an execu
tion.

Sec. 135. If the defendant recover judgment against the plaintifff,
any undertaking received in the action, all the proceeds of sales and
money collected by the sheriff, and all the property attached remaining in
the sheriff's hands, shall be delivered to the defendant or his agent; the
order of attachment shall be discharged, and the property released there
from.

Sec. 136. Whenever the defendant shall have appeared in the
action he may apply upon reasonable notice to the plaintifff, to the court or
judge thereof for an order to discharge the same, upon the execution of the
undertaking mentioned in the next section; and, if the application be
granted, all the proceeds of sales and monies collected by the sheriff, and
all the property attached remaining in his hands shall be released from the
attachment and delivered to the defendant upon the justification of the
sureties on the undertaking, if required by the plaintifff.

Sec. 137. Upon such application the defendant shall deliver to
the court or judge an undertaking executed by at least two sureties, resi
dents and freeholders in the county, to the effect that the sureties will, on
demand, pay to the plaintifff the amount of judgment that may be recov
ered against the defendant in the action, not exceeding the sum specified
in the undertaking, which shall be sufficient to satisfy the amount claimed
by the plaintifff in his complaint and the costs. The sureties may be re
quired to justify on application before the judge or court, and the prop
erty attached shall not be released from the attachment without their
justification, if the same be required.

Sec. 138. The defendant may, also, any time before the time for
answering expires, apply, on motion, upon reasonable notice to the plaintifff,
to the judge who made the order or the court in which the action is
brought, that the attachment be discharged on the ground that the writ
was improperly issued.

Sec. 139. If the motion be made upon affidavits on the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose the same by affi
davits or other evidence, in addition to those on which the order of attach
ment was made.

Sec. 140. If upon such application it shall satisfactorily appear
that the writ of attachment was improperly issued, it shall be discharged.

Sec. 141. Upon the return of the writ of attachment, the de
fendant may file his answer under oath, putting in issue the truth of the
matters contained in the affidavit, and the same shall be tried as a prelimi
nary issue in the cause; and if the affidavit is not sustained the attach
ment shall be dissolved, and the suit shall proceed as if commenced by an
ordinary summons; and the plaintifff, upon the dissolution of the attach
ment, shall be adjudged to pay all the costs of the attachment and the
damages sustained thereby, to be determined as in ordinary actions for
damages.

Sec. 142. Upon the return of the writ of attachment, if it ap
pear to the court that an excess of property has been attached, the court
may, by order, reduce the amount to what will be sufficient to satisfy the
demands of the plaintifff, with costs.
(2571)) Sec. 143. The sheriff shall return the writ of attachment with
the summons, if issued at the same time; otherwise, within twenty days
after its receipt, with a certificate of his proceedings endorsed thereon or
attached thereto. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any
suits by attachment already commenced.
Deposit in Court.

Sec. 144. When it is admitted by the pleading or examination of
a party that he has in his possession, or under his control, any money or
other things capable of delivery, which, being the subject of the litigation,
is held by him as trustee for another party, or which belongs or is due to
another party, the court may order the same, upon motion, to be deposited
in court or delivered to such party, upon such conditions as may be just,
subject to the further direction of the court.

Sec. 145. A receiver may be appointed by the court in which the
action is pending, or by the judge thereof:
1st. Before judgment provisionally on the. application of either party,
when he establishes a prima facie right to the property, or an interest
therein which is the subject of the action, and which is in possession of the
adverse party, and the property, or its rents and profits, are in danger of
being lost or materially injured or impaired.
2d. After judgment, to dispose of the property according to the judg
ment, or to preserve it during the pending of an appeal; and,
3d. In such other cases as are in accordance with the practice of courts
of equity jurisdiction.

Sec. 146. A judgment is the final determination of the rights of
the parties in the action or proceeding, and may be entered in term or va
cation.

Sec. 147. Judgment may be given for or against one or more of
several plaintifffs, and for or against one or more of several defendants; and
it may, when the justice of the case requires it, determine the ultimate
rights of the parties on each side, as between themselves.

Sec. 148. In an action against several defendants, the court may,
in its discretion, render judgment against one or more of them, leaving tho
action to proceed against the others, whenever a several judgment is proper.

Sec. 149. The relief granted to the plaintifff, if there be no an
swer, shall not exceed that which he shall have demanded in his complaint;
but in any other case the court may grant him any relief consistent with
the case made by tho complaint and embraced within the issue.

Sec. 150. An action may be dismissed, or a judgment of nonsuit
entered in the following cases:
1st. By the plaintifff himself, at any time before trial, on tho payment
of costs, if a counterclaim has not been made. If a provisional remedy has
been allowed, the undertaking shall thereupon be delivered by the clerk to
the defendant, who may have his action thereon.
2d. By either party, upon the written consent of the other.
3d. By the court, when the plaintifff fails to appear on the trial, and the
defendant appears, and asks for the dismissal.
4th. By the court, when upon the trial, and before the final submission
of the case, the plaintifff abandons it.
5th. By the court, upon motion of the defendant, when upon the trial
the plaintifff fails to prove a sufficient case for the jury. The dismissal
mentioned in the first two subdivisions shall be made by an entry in the
clerk's register. Judgment may thereupon be entered accordingly.

Sec. 151. In every case, other than those mentioned in the last
section, the judgment shall bo rendered on the merits.
Judgment upon Failure to Answer.

Sec. 152. Judgment may be had, if the defendant fail to answer
the complaint, as follows:
1st. In an action arising upon contract for the recovery of money or
damages only, if no answer has been filed with the clerk of the court within
the time specified in the summons, or such further time as may have been
granted; the clork, upon application of the plaintifff, shall enter the default
of the defendant, and immediately thereafter enter judgment for tho
amount specified in the summons, including tho costs, against the defend
ant, or against one or more of several defendants, in the cases provided for
in section thirty-two.
2d. In other actions, if no answer has been filed with the clerk of the court within the time specified in the summons, or such further time as
may have been granted, the clerk shall enter the default of the defendant,
and thereafter the plaintifff may apply at the first or any subsequent term
of the court for the relief demanded in the complaint. If the taking of
an account or the proof of any fact be necessary to enable the court to give
judgment or to carry the judgment into effect, the court may take the ac
count or hear the proof, or may, in its discretion, order a reference for that
purpose; and where the action is for the recovery of damages in whole or
in part, the court may order the damages to be assessed by a jury; or if, to
determine the amount of damages, the examination of a long account be
necessary, by a reference as above provided.
3d. In actions where the service of summons was by publication, the
plaintifff, twenty days after the expiration of the time designated in the
order of publication may, upon proof of the publication and that no answer
has been filed, have judgment as provided for in said section one hundred
and fifty-two, hereby amended.*
Of Issues, and the manner of their Disposition.

Sec. 153. An issue arises when a fact or conclusion of law is
maintained by the one party and is controverted by the other. Issues are of
two kinds:
1. Of law; and
2. Of fact.

Sec. 154. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the com
plaint, or to some part thereof.

Sec 155. An issue of fact arises:
1. Upon a material allegation in the complaint, controverted by the an
swer; or
2. Upon new matter in the answer.

Sec. 156. An issue of law shall be tried by the court, unless it be
referred, upon consent, as provided in this chapter.

Sec. 157. An issue of fact shall be tried by a jury, unless a jury
trial is waived or a reference be ordered, as provided in this chapter. Where
there are issues both of law and fact to the same complaint, the issues of
law shall be first disposed of.

Sec 158. The clerk shall enter causes upon the calendar of the
court according to the date of the issue. Causes once placed on the calen
dar for a general or special term, if not tried or heard at such term, shall
remain upon the calendar from court to court until finally disposed of.

Sec 159. Either party may bring the issue to trial or to a hear
ing; and in the absence of the adverse party, unless the court for good
cause otherwise direct, may proceed with his case, and take a dismissal of
the action or a verdict or judgment, as the case may require.

Sec 1 60. A motion to postpone a trial on the ground of the ab
sence of evidence shall only be made up on affidavit, showing the materiality
•As amended by.act of 1866.
of the evidence expected to be obtained, and that due diligence has been
used to procure it. The court may also require the moving party to state,
upon affidavit, the evidence which he expects to obtain; and if the adverse
party thereupon admit that such evidence would be given, and that it be
considered as actually given on the trial, or offered and overruled as im
proper, the trial shall not be postponed; provided, that the party obtaining
a postponement of a trial in any court of record shall also, if required by
the adverse party, consent that the testimony of any witness of such adverse
party who is in attendance be taken by deposition before a judge or clerk
of the court in which the case is pending, or before a notary public to be
named by the court, which shall accordingly be done; and the testimony so
taken may be read on the trial with the same effect and subject to the same
objections as if the witnesses were produced.
Trial iy Jury. —Formation of the Jury.

Sec. 161. When the action is called for trial by jury, the clerk
shall prepare separate ballots containing the names of the jurors summoned
who have appeared and not been excused, and deposit them in a box. He
shall then draw from the box twelve names, and the persons whose names
are drawn shall constitute the jury. If the ballots become exhausted before
the jury is complete, or if from any cause a juror or jurors be excused or
discharged, the sheriff shall summon, under the direction of the court,
from the citizens of the county and not from bystanders, so many qualified
persons as may be necessary to complete the jury. The jury shall consist
of twelve persons, unless the parties consent to a less number. The parties
may consent to any number not less than three. Such consent shall be
entered by the clerk in the minutes of the trial.

Sec. 162. As soon as the jury is completed, an oath or affirmation
shall be administered to the jurors, in substance that they, each of them,
will well and truly try the matter in issue between
, the plaintifff, and
, the defendant, and a true verdict render according to the evidence.

Sec. 163. Either party may challenge the jurors, but when there
are several parties on either side, they shall join in a challenge before it can
be made. The challenges shall be to individual jurors, and shall either be
peremptory or for cause. Bach party shall be entitled to four peremptory
challenges.

Sec. 164. Challenges for cause may be taken on one or more of
the following grounds:
1st. A want of any of the qualifications prescribed by statute to render a
person competent as a juror;
2d. Consanguinity or affinity within the third degree to either party;
3d. Standing in the relation of guardian and ward, master and servant,
employer and clerk, or principal and agent to either party; or being a mem
ber of the family of either party; or a partner in business with either party;
or being security on any bond or obligation for either party;
4th. Having served as a juror or been a witness on a previous trial be
tween the same parties for the same cause of action;
5th. Interest on the part of the juror in the event of the action, or in the
main question involved in the action;
6th. Having formed or expressed an unqualified opinion or belief as to
the merits of the action;
7th. The existence of a state of mind in the juror evincing enmity against
or bias to either party.

Sec. 165. Challenges for cause shall be tried by the court. The
juror challenged, and any other person, may be examined as a witness on
the trial of the challenge.
Conduct of the Trial.

Sec. 166. If, after the impanneling of the jury, and before ver
dict, a juror become sick, so as to be unable to perform his duty, the court
may order him to be discharged. In that case the trial may proceed with
the other jurors, or a new jury may be sworn, and the trial begin anew;
or the jury may be discharged, and a new jury then or afterward impanneled.

Sec. 167. In charging the jury, the court shall state to them all
matters of law which it thinks necessary for their information in giving
their verdict; and if it state the testimony of the case, it shall also inform
the jury that they are the exclusive judges of all questions of fact. The
court shall furnish to either party at the time, upon request, a statement in
writing of the points of law contained in the charge; or shall sign at the
time a statement of such points prepared and submitted by the counsel of
either party.

Sec. 168. After hearing the charge, the jury may either decide in
court or retire for deliberation. If they retire, they shall be kept together
in a room provided for them, or some other convenient place, under the
charge of one or more officers, until they agree upon their verdict or are
discharged by the court. The officer shall, to the utmost of his ability,
keep the jury together, separate from other persons; he shall not suffer any
communication to be made to them, or make any himself, unless by order
of the court, except to ask them if they have agreed upon their verdict;
and he shall not, before the verdict is rendered, communicate to any person
the state of their deliberations or the verdict agreed upon.

Sec. 169. Upon retiring for deliberation, the jury may take with
them all papers (except depositions) which have been received as evidence
in the cause, or copies of such papers as ought not, in the opinion of the
court, to be taken from the person having them in possession; and they
may also take with them notes of the testimony or other proceedings on the
trial taken by themselves, or any of them; but none taken by any other
person.

Sec. 170. After the jury have retired for deliberation, if there be
a disagreement between them as to any part of the testimony, or if they desire to be informed of any point of law arising in the cause, they may re
quire the officer to conduct them into court. Upon their being brought
into court, the information required shall be given in the presence of, or
after notice to, the parties or counsel.

Sec. 171. In all cases where a jury are discharged or prevented
from giving a verdict by reason of accident or other cause during the pro
gress of the trial, or after the cause is submitted to them, the action may
be again tried immediately, or at a future time, as the court shall direct.

Sec. 172. While the jury are absent the court may adjourn from
time to time in respect to other business; but it shall, nevertheless, be
deemed open for every purpose connected with the cause submitted to the
jury, until a verdict is rendered or the jury discharged. The court may
direct the jury to bring in a sealed verdict at the opening of the court, in
case of an agreement during a recess or adjournment for the day. A final
adjournment of the court for the term shall discharge the jury.

Sec. 173. When the jury have agreed upon their verdict they
shall be conducted into court by the officer having them in charge. Their
names shall be then called, and they shall be asked by the court or the
clerk whether they have agreed upon their verdict; and if the foreman
answer in the affirmative they shall, on being required, declare the same.

Sec. 174. If the verdict be informal or insufficient in not cover
ing the whole issue or issues submitted, the verdict may be corrected by
the jury under the advice of the court, or the jury may be again sent out.

Sec. 175. When the verdict is given and is not informal or in
sufficient, the clerk shall immediately record it in full in the minutes, and
shall read it to the jury and inquire of them whether it be their verdict.
If any juror disagree, the jury shall be again sent out; but if no disagree
ment be expressed the verdict shall be complete, and the jury shall be dis
charged from the case.
The Verdict.

Sec. 176. The verdict of a jury is either general or special. A
general verdict is that by which they pronounce generally upon all or any
of the issues either in favor of the plaintifff or defendant; a special verdict
is that by which the jury find the facts only, leaving the judgment to the
court. The special verdict shall present the conclusions of fact as estab
lished by the evidence, and not the evidence to prove them; and those con
clusions of fact shall be so presented as that nothing shall remain to the
court but to draw from them conclusions of law.

Sec. 177. The court may instruct the jury to find a special ver
dict; when not so instructed, the verdict shall be general.

Sec. 178. When a verdict is found for the plaintifff in an action
for the recovery of money, or for the defendant when a counterclaim for
the recovery of money is established exceeding the amount of the plaintifff's
claim as established, the jury shall also find the amount of the recovery.

Sec. 179. In an action for the recovery of specific personal property, if the property has not been delivered to the plaintifff, or the defend
ant, by his answer, claim a return thereof, the jury, if their verdict be in
favor of the plaintifff, or if, being in favor of the defendant, they also find
that he is entitled to a return thereof, shall find the value of the property
and may at the same time assess the damages, if any are claimed in the
complaint or answer, which the prevailing party has sustained by reason of
the taking or detention of such property.

Sec. 180. Upon receiving a verdict an entry shall be made by the
clerk in the minutes of the court, specifying the time of trial, the names of
jurors and witnesses, and the verdict; and where a special verdict is found,
either the judgment rendered thereon, or, if the case be reserved for argu
ment or further consideration, the order thus reserving it.
Trial by the Court.

Sec. 181. Trial by jury may be waived by the several parties to
an issue of fact, in actions arising on contract; and, with the assent of the
court in other actions, in the manner following:
1st. By failing to appear at the trial;
2d. By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with the clerk:
3d. By oral consent in open court, entered in the minutes. The court
may prescribe by rule what shall be deemed a waiver in other cases.

Sec. 182. Upon the trial of an issue of fact by the court, its deci
sion shall be given in writing, and filed with the clerk, within ten days
after the trial took place. In giving the decision, the facts found and the
conclusions of law shall be separately stated. Judgment upon the decision
shall be entered accordingly.

Sec. 183. On a judgment upon an issue of law, if the taking of
an account be necessary to enable the court to complete the judgment, a
reference may be ordered.
Of References, and Trial by Referees.

Sec. 184. A reference may be ordered upon the agreement of the
parties filed with the clerk, or entered in the minutes:
1. To try any or all of the issues in an action or proceeding, whether of
fact or of law; and to report a judgment thereon;
2. To ascertain a fact necessary to enable the court to proceed and deter
mine the case.

Sec. 185. When the parties do not consent, the court may, upon
the application of either, or of its own motion, direct a reference in the
following cases:
1. When the trial of an issue of fact requires the examination of a long
account on either side; in which case the referees may be directed to hear
and decide the whole issue; or report upon any specific question of fact in
volved therein;
2. When the taking of an account is necessary for the information of the
court before judgment, or for carrying a judgment or order into effect;
3. When a question of fact, other than upon the pleadings, arises upon
motion or otherwise, in any stage of the action; or,
4. When it is necessary for the information of the court in a special pro
ceeding.

Seo. 186. A reference may be ordered to any person or persons,
not exceeding three, agreed upon by the parties. If the parties do not
agree, the court or judge shall appoint ore or more referees, not exceeding
three, who reside in the county in which the action or proceeding is triable,
and against whom there is no legal objection.

Sec. 187. Either party may object to the appointment of any per
son as referee, on one or more of the following grounds:
1. A want of any of the qualifications prescribed by statute 'to render a
person competent as a juror.
2. Consanguinity or affinity within the third degree to either party.
3. Standing in the relation of guardian and ward, master and servant,
employer and clerk, or principal and agent to either party; or being a
member of the family of either party; or a partner in business with either
party; or being security on any bond or obligation for either party.
4. Having served as a juror or been a witness on any trial between the
same parties for the same cause of action.
5. Interest on the part of such person in the event of the action, or in
the main question involved in the action.
6. Having formed or expressed an unqualified opinion or belief as to the
merits of the action.
7. The existence of a state of mind in such person evincing enmity
against or bias to either party.

Sec 188. The objections taken to the appointment of any person
as referee shall be heard and disposed of by the court. Affidavits may be
read and any person examined as a witness as to such objections.

Sec. 189. The referees shall make their report within ten days
after the testimony before them is closed. Their report upon the whole
issue shall stand as the decision of the court, and, upon filing the report
with the clerk of the court, judgment may be entered therein in the same
manner as if the action had been tried by the court. The decision of the
.referees may be excepted to and reviewed in like manner as if made by the
court. When the reference is to report the facts, the report shall have the
effect of a special verdict.
General Provisions relating to Trials. —Exceptions.

Sec. 190. An exception is an objection taken at the trial to a
decision upon a matter of law, whether such trial be by jury, court or
referees, and whether the decision be made during the formation of a jury,
or in the admission of evidence, or in the charge to a jury, or at any other
time from the calling of the action for trial to the rendering of the verdict
or decision. But no exception shall be regarded on a motion for a new
trial, or on an appeal, unless the exception be material, and affect the sub
stantial rights of the parties.

Sec. 191. The point of the exception shall be particularly stated,
and may be delivered in writing to the judge, or, if the party require it,
shall be written down by the clerk; when delivered in writing, or written
down by the clerk, it shall be made conformable to the truth, or be at the
time corrected until it is so made conformable. When not delivered in
writing, or written down as above, it may be entered in the judge's minutes
and afterward settled in a statement of the case, as provided in this
chapter.

Sec. 192. No particular form of exception shall be required. The
objection shall be stated, with so much of the evidence or other matter as
is necessary to explain it, but no more, and the whole as briefly as possible.

Sec. 193. When a cause has been tried by the court or by referees,
and the decision or report is not made immediately after the closing of the
testimony, the decision or report shall be deemed excepted to, on motion
for a new trial or on appeal, without any special notice that an exception
is taken thereto.

Sec. 194. A new trial is a re-examination of an issue of fact in
the same court, after a trial and decision by a jury, court or referees.

Sec 195. The former verdict or other decision may be vacated
and a new trial granted on the application of the party aggrieved, for any
of *the following causes materially affecting the substantial rights of such
party:
1. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury or adverse party, or
any order of the court, or abuse of discretion by which either party was
, prevented from having a fair trial;
2. Misconduct of the jury;
3. Accident or surprise which ordinary prudence could not have guarded
against;
4. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party making the appli
cation, which he could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and
produced at the trial;
5. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under the influence
of passion or prejudice;
6. Insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other decision;
or that it is against law;
7. Error in law occurring at the trial, and excepted to by the party mak
ing the application.

Sec. 196. When the application is made for a cause mentioned in
the first, second, third and fourth subdivisions of the last section, it shall
be made upon affidavit; for any other cause it shall be made upon a state
ment prepared as provided in the next section.

Sec. 197. The party intending to move for a new trial shall give
i> i^' /\ I notice of the same within two days after the trial, and shall, within five
ViyL I
days after such notice, or such other time as the court shall direct, prepare and file with the clerk the affidavit required hy the last section, or a state
ment of the grounds upon which he intends to rely. If no affidavit or state
ment be filed within five days after the notice, the right to move for a new
trial shall be deemed waived. The statement shall contain so much of the
evidence, or reference thereto, as may be necessary to explain the grounds
taken, and no more. Such statement, when containing any portion of the
evidence of the case, and not agreed to by the adverse party, shall be settled
by the judge upon notice. On the argument, reference may also be made
to the pleadings, depositions, and documentary evidence on file, and to the
minutes of the court. If "the application be made upon affidavits filed, the
adverse party may use counter-affidavits on the hearing. Any counter-affi
davits shall be filed with the clerk one day. at least previous to the hearing.

Sec 198. The application for a new trial shall be made at the
earliest period practicable, after filing the affidavitpr statement, 
£nner of' Giving and Entering Judgment.

Sec 199. When trial by jury has been had, judgment shall be ^^ 
entered by the clerk, in conformity to the verdict, within twenty-four hours '^ ^v>
after the rendition of the verdict, unless the court order the case to be reserved for argument or further consideration, or grant a stay of proceed- 

Sec 200. When the case is reserved for argument or further consideration, as mentioned in the last section, it may be brought by either
partv before the court for argument, as the court shall direct.

Sec 201. If a counterclaim, established at the trial, exceed the
plaintifff's demand so established, judgment for the defendant shall be given
for the excess; or, if it appear that the defendant is entitled to any other
affirmative relief, judgment shall be given accordingly.

Sec 202. In an action to recover the possession of personal pro
perty, judgment for the plaintifff may be for the possession or the value
thereof, in case a delivery cannot be had, and damages for the detention.
If the property have been delivered to the plaintifff, and the defendant claim
a return thereof, judgment for the defendant may be for a return of the
property, or the value thereof, in case a return cannot be had, and damages
for taking and withholding the same.

Sec 203. The clerk shall keep, among the records of the court,
a book for the entry of judgments, to be called the "judgment book," in
which each judgment shall be entered, and shall specify clearly the relief
granted, or other determination of the action.

Sec 204. If a party die after a verdict or decision upon any issue
of fact, and before a judgment, the court may, nevertheless, render judg
ment thereon. Such judgment shall not be a lien on the real property of
the deceased party, but shall be payable in the course of administration on
his estate.

Sec 205. Immediately after entering the judgment, the clerk
shall attach together and file the following papers, which shall constitute
the judgment roll:
1st. In case the complaint be not answered by any defendant, the sum
mons, with the affidavit or proof of service, and the complaint, with a memo
randum indorsed on the complaint that the default of the defendant in
not answering was entered, and a copy of the judgment;
2d. In all other cases the summons, pleadings, and a copy of the judg
ment, and any orders relating to a change of the parties.

Sec. 206. Immediately after filing a judgment roll, the clerk shall
make the proper entries of the judgment, under appropriate heads, in the
docket kept by him; and from the time the judgment is docketed, it shall
become a lien upon all the real property of the "judgment debtor, not ex
empt from execution, in the county, owned by him -at the time, or which
he may afterward acquire, until the said lien expires. The lien shall con
tinue for two years, unless the judgment be previously satisfied.

Sec 207. The docket mentioned in the last section is a book which
the clerk shall keep in his office, with each page divided into eight columns,
and headed as follows: Judgment debtors; judgment creditors; judgment;
time of entry; where entered in judgment book; appeals, when taken;
judgment of appellate court; satisfaction of judgment, when entered. If
judgment be for the recovery of money or damages, the amount shall be
stated in the docket under the head of judgment; if the judgment be for
any other relief, a memorandum of the general character of the relief
granted shall be stated. The names of the defendants shall be entered in
the docket in alphabetical order.

Sec. 208. The docket kept by the clerk shall be open at all times
during office hours for the inspection of the public without charge; and it
shall be the duty of the clerk to arrange the several dockets.kept by him in
such a manner as to facilitate their inspection.

Sec. 209. A transcript of the original docket, certified by the clerk,
may be filed with the recorder of any other county, and from the time of
the filing the judgment shall become a lien upon all the real property of
the judgment debtor, not exempt from execution in such county, owned by
him at the time, or which he may afterward acquire, until the said lien ex
pires. The lien shall continue for two years, unless the judgment be pre
viously satisfied.

Sec. 210. Satisfaction of a judgment may be entered in the clerk's
docket upon an execution returned satisfied, or upon an acknowledgment
of satisfaction filed with the clerk, made in the manner of an acknowledg
ment of a conveyance of real property, by the judgment creditor; or
within one year after the judgment by the attorney, unless a revocation of
his authority be previously filed. Whenever a judgment shall be satisfied
in fact, otherwise than upon an execution, it shall be the duty of the party
or attorney to give such acknowledgment, and upon motion the court
may compel it, or may order the entry of satisfaction to be made without it.
Of the Execution of the Judgment in Civil Actions.

Sec 211. The party in whose favor judgment is given may, at,
any time within five years after the entry thereof, issue a writ of execution
for its enforcement, as prescribed in this chapter.

Sec. 212. The writ of execution shall be issued in the name of
the Territory, sealed with the seal of the court, and subscribed by the clerk,
and shall be directed to the sheriff, and shall intelligibly refer to the judg
ment, stating the court, the county where the judgment roll is filed, the
name of the parties, the judgment, and, if it be for money, the amount
thereof, and the amount actually due thereon, and shall require the sheriff
substantially as follows:
1. If it be against the property of the judgment debtor, it shall require
the sheriff to satisfy the judgment, with interest, out of the personal prop
erty of such debtor, and if sufficient personal property cannot be found,
then out of his real property; or if the judgment be a lien upon real prop
erty, then out of the real property belonging to him on the day when the
judgment was docketed, or if the execution be issued to a county other
than the one in which the judgment was recovered, on the day when the
transcript of the docket was filed in the office of the recorder of such
county, stating such day, or at any time thereafter;
2. If it be against real or personal property in the hands of the personal
representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants of real property, or trus
tees, it shall require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment, with interest, out
of such property;
3. If it be against the person of the judgment debtor, it shall require
the sheriff to arrest such debtor and commit him to the jail of the county,
until he pay the judgment, with interest, or be discharged according to
law;
4. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or personal property,
it shall require the sheriff to deliver the possession of the same, particularly
describing it, the party entitled thereto, and may at the. same time require
the sheriff to satisfy any costs, damages, rents or profits recovered by the
same judgment, out of the personal property of the party against whom it
was rendered, and the value of the property for which the judgment was
recovered, to be specified therein, if a delivery thereof cannot be had, and
if sufficient personal property cannot be found, then out of real property,
as provided in the first subdivision of this section.

Sec. 213. "When a writ of execution is issued on a judgment re
covered against two or more persons, in an action upon a joint contract, in
which action all the defendants were not served with summons or did not
appear, it shall direct the sheriff to satisfy the judgment out of the joint
property of all the defendants, and the individual property only of the de
fendants who were served or who appeared in the action. In other re
spects, the writ shall contain the directions specified in the first subdivision
of the last section.

Sec 214. The execution may be made returnable at any time not
less than ten nor more than sixty days after its receipt by the sheriff, to the
clerk with whom the judgment roll is filed.

Sec. 215. Where a judgment requires the payment of money, or
the delivery of real or personal property, the same shall be enforced in those
respects by execution. Where it requires the performance of any other act,
a certified copy of the judgment may be served upon the party against
whom it is given, or upon the person or officer who is required thereby, or
by law, to obey the same, and his obedience thereto enforced.

Sec 216. After the lapse of five years from the entry of judg
ment, an execution shall be issued only by leave of the court, on motion.
Such leave shall not be given unless it be established by the oath of the
party, or other proof, that the judgment, or some part thereof, remains
unsatisfied and due.

Sec 217. No execution shall be issued against a judgment debtor
who has deceased since the rendition of the judgment, but any property
levied upon prior to such decease shall be held subject to equitable dis
tribution in the course of administration.*

Sec 218. Where the execution is against the property of the judg
ment debtor it may be issued to the sheriff of any county in the Territory.
Where it requires the delivery of real or personal property, it shall be is
sued to the sheriff of the county where the property, or some part thereof,
is situated. Executions may be issued at the same time to different coun
ties.

Sec 219. All goods, chattels, monies, real property, personal
and other property, or any legal or equitable interest therein, of the judg
ment debtor, whether the legal title thereof be in his name or otherwise,
not exempt by law from sale or execution, and all property and rights of
property that may be seized and held under attachment, shall be liable to,
be seized and sold on execution. Shares and interests in any corporation,
company, or association, or any legal or equitable interest therein, or the
debts, claims, or other property thereof, may be levied on and sold on exe
cution, and the purchaser of any of said property shall be invested with all
of the legal and equitable interest of such judgment debtor, and may bring
suit to quiet his title thereto; or to perfect his title and interest therein, or
to get possession thereof. Until a levy is made, property shall not be
affected by execution.!

Sec 220. If the property levied on be claimed by a third person
as his property, the sheriff shall summon from his county six persons
qualified as jurors between the parties, to try the validity 'of the claim.
He shall also give notice of the claim, and of the time of trial to the plain
tiff, who may appear and contest the claim before the jury. The jury and
the witnesses shall be sworn by the sheriff, and, if their verdict be in favor
of the claimant, the sheriff may relinquish the levy, unless the judgment
• As amended by act of 1865.
tAs amended by act of 1873.
creditor give him a sufficient indemnity for proceeding thereon. The fees
of the jury, the sheriff, and the witnesses, shall be paid by the claimant,
if the verdict be against him; otherwise, by the plaintifff. On the trial
the defendant and the claimant may be examined by the plaintifff as wit
nesses.

Sec. 221. The property mentioned in chapter thirty-seven of this
code, entitled "Of Exemptions," shall be exempt from such execution, ex
cept in the manner in said chapter specified, and, as to all property so ex
empt, the proceedings on such execution shall be in accordance with the
provisions of said chapter.

Sec. 222. The sheriff shall execute the writ against the property
of the judgment debtor, by levying on a sufficient amount of property, if
there be sufficient; collecting or selling the things in action, and selling
the other property, and paying to the plaintifff or his attorney so much of
the proceeds as will satisfy the judgment, or depositing the amount with
the clerk of the court; any excess in the proceeds over the judgment and
the sheriff's fees shall be returned to the judgment debtor. When there is
more property of the judgment debtor than is sufficient to satisfy the judg
ment and the sheriff's fees within the view of the sheriff, he shall levy only
on such part of the property as the judgment debtor may indicate; provided,
that the judgment debtor be present at, and indicate at the time of the levy
such part; and, provided, that the property indicated be amply sufficient
to satisfy such judgment and fees.

Sec. 223. Before the sale of property on execution, notice thereof
6hall be given as follows:
1st. In case of perishable property, by posting written notice of the time
and place of sale in three public places of the precinct or county where the
sale is to take place, for such a time as may be reasonable, considering the
character and condition of the property;
2d. In case of other personal property, by posting a similar notice in
three public places of the precinct or county where the sale, is to take place,
not less than five nor more than ten days successively;
\
b*
3d. In case of real property, by posting a similar notice, particularly
describing the property, for twenty days successively, in three public places
of the precinct or county where the property is situated, and also where
the property is to be sold; and publishing a copy thereof once a week for
the same period in a newspaper in the county, if there be one.

Sec. 224. An officer selling without the notice prescribed by the
last section shall forfeit five hundred dollars to the aggrieved party, in
addition to his actual damages; and a person willfully taking down or
defacing the notice posted, if done before the sale or the satisfaction of the
judgment (if the judgment be satisfied before sale), shall forfeit five hun
dred dollars.

Sec. 225. All sales of property under execution shall be made at
auction to the highest bidder, and shall be made between the hours of nine
in the morning and five in the afternoon; after sufficient property has been
sold to satisfy the execution, no more shall be sold. Neither the officer
holding the execution nor his deputies shall become a purchaser, or be in
terested in any purchase at such sale. When the sale is of personal pro
perty capable of manual delivery, it shall be within view of those who
attend the sale, and be sold in such parcels as are likely to bring the
highest price; and when the sale is of real property, and consisting of
several known lots or parcels, they shall be sold separately; or when a por
tion of such real property is claimed by a third person, and he requires it
to be sold separately, such portion shall be thus sold. The judgment
debtor, if present at the sale, may also direct the order in which property,
real or personal, shall be sold, when such property consists of several
known lots or parcels, or of articles which can be sold to advantage separ
ately; and the sheriff shall be bound to follow such directions.

Sec 226. If a purchaser refuse to pay the amouut bid by him for
property struck off to him at a sale under execution, the officer may again
sell the property at any time to the highest bidder, and if any loss be oc
casioned thereby, the officer may recover the amount of such loss, with
costs, by motion upon previous notice of five days before any court, or
before any justice of the peace, if the same shall not exceed his jurisdiction.

Sec. 227. Such court or justice shall proceed in a summary man
ner and give judgment and issue execution therefore forthwith, but the
defendant may claim a jury. And the same proceedings may be had
against any subsequent purchaser who shall refuse to pay, and the officer
may, in his discretion, thereafter reject the bid of any person so refusing.

Sec. 228. The two preceding sections shall not be construed to
make the officer liable for any more than the amount bid by the second or
subsequent purchaser, and the amount collected from the purchaser refus
ing to pay.

Sec. 229. When the purchaser of any personal property capable
of manual delivery shall pay' the purchase-money, the 'officer making the
sale shall deliver to the purchaser the property, and, if desired, shall exe
cute and deliver to him a certificate of the sale and payment. Such certifi
cate shall convey to the purchaser all the right, title and interest which the
debtor had in and to such property on the day the execution was levied.

Sec. 230. When the purchaser of any personal property, not
capable of manual delivery, shall pay the purchase-money, the officer
making the sale shall execute and deliver to the purchaser a certificate of
sale and payment. Such certificate shall convey to the purchaser all right,
title and interest which the debtor had in and to such property on the day
the execution was levied.

Sec. 231. Upon a sale of real property, when the estate is less
than a leasehold of two years' unexpired term, the sale shall be absolute.
In all other cases the real property shall be subject to redemption, as pro
vided in this chapter. The officer shall give to the purchaser a certificate
of the sale, containing:
1. A particular description of the real property sold;
2. The price bid for each distinct lot or parcel;
3. The whole price paid:
4. When subject to redemption it shall be so stated, a duplicate of which
certificate shall be filed by the officer with the recorder of the county.

Sec. 232. Property sold subject to redemption, as provided in
the last section, or any part sold separately, may be redeemed, in the man
ner hereinafter provided, by the following persons or their successors in
interest:
1. The judgment debtor, or his successor in interest, in the whole or any
part of the property;
2. A creditor having a lien, by judgment or mortgage, on the property
sold, or on some share or part thereof, subsequent to that on which the
property was sold. The persons mentioned in the second subdivision of
this section are, in this chapter, termed redemptioners.

Sec. 233. The judgment debtor, or a redemptioner, may redeem
the property from the purchaser within six months after the sale, on paying
the purchaser the amount of his purchases, with eighteen^ per cent thereon
in addition, together with the amount of any assessments nr taxes which
the purchaser may have paid thereon a'fter the purchase, and interest on
such amount; and if the purchaser be also a creditor, having a lien prior
to that of the^edempftftner, the -amount of such lien, with interest.

Sec. 234- If the property be- so redeemed by a redemptioner,
either the judgment debtor or another redemptioner may, within sixty
days after the last redemption, again redeem it from the last redemptioner;
on paying the sum paid on such las£ redemption, with six per cent thereon
in addition, and the amount of any assessments or taxes which the said
last redemptioner may have paid thereon, after the redemption by him,
with interest on siy*b amount; and the amount of any lien held by said last
redemptioner prior to his own, with interest. The property may be again,
and as often as the debtor or any redemptioner is so disposed, redeemed
from any previous redemptioner, within sixty days after the last redemp
tion, on paying the sum paid on the last previous redemption, with six per
cent, thereon in addition, and the amount of any assessments or taxes
which the said last previous redemptioner paid after the redemption by
him, with interest thereon; and the amount of any liens held by the said
last redemptioner, previous to his own, with interest. Notice of redemp
tion shall be given to the sheriff. If no redemption be made within six
months after the sale the purchaser shall be entitled to a conveyance; or, if
so redeemed, whenever sixty days have elapsed, and no other redemption
has been made, and notice thereof given, the time for redemption shall
have expired, and the last redemptioner shall be entitled to a sheriff's deed.
If the debtor redeem at any time before the time for redemption expires,
the effects of the sale shall be terminated, and he be restored to his estate.

Sec. 235. The payment mentioned in the last two sections may
be made to the purchaser or redemptioner, as the case may be, or for him
to the officer who made the sale; and a tender of the money shall be equiva
lent to payment.

Sec. 236. A redemptioner shall produce to the officer or person
from whom he seeks to redeem, and serve with his notice to the sheriff:
1. A copy of the docket of the judgment under which he claims the right
to redeem, certified by the clerk of the court where the judgment is
docketed ; or, if he redeem upon a mortgage or other lien, a note of the
record thereof certified by the recorder;
2. A copy of any assignment necessary to establish his claim, verified by
the affidavit of himself or of a subscribing witness thereto; and
3. An affidavit by himself or his agent, showing the amount then actually
due on the lien.

Sec. 237. Until the expiration of the time allowed for redemp
tion, the court may restrain the commission of waste on the property, by
order granted with or without notice, on the application of the purchaser
or the judgment creditor. But it shall not be deemed waste for the person
in possession of the property at the time of sale, or entitled to possession
afterward during the period allowed for redemption, to continue to use it
in the same manner in which it was previously used; or to use it in the
ordinary course of husbandry; or to make the necessary repairs of build
ings thereon; or to use wood or timber on the property therefore; or for
the repair of 'fences; or for fuel in the family—while he occupies the
property.

Sec. 238. The purchaser from the time of the sale until-a re
demption, and a redemptioner from the time of his redemption until
another redemption, shall be entitled to receive from the tenant in posses
sion, the rents of the property sold, or the value of the use and occupation
thereof. Provided, that if the property sold is redeemed, the purchaser
shall pay to the redemptioner the rents and profits he may have received
from the possession of the said premises.*

Sec. 239. If the purchaser of real property sold on execution, or
his successor in interest, be evicted therefrom in consequence of irregularity
in the proceedings concerning the sale, or of the reversal or discharge of the
judgment, he may recover the price paid, with interest, from the judgment
creditor. If the recovery be in consequence of the irregularity in the pro
ceedings concerning the sale, the judgment may, by order of the court,
upon notice to the judgment debtor, be revived, and a new execution issued
for the price paid on the sale, with interest. Such judgment shall be
a lien on the real estate of the judgment debtor only from the time of its
revival.
Proceedings Supplementary to the Execution.
( 2676) Sec. 240. When an execution against property of the judgment
debtor, or of any one of several debtors in the same judgment, issued to the
sheriff of the county where he resides, or, if he do not reside in this Terri
tory, to the sheriff of the county where the judgment roll is filed, is re
turned unsatisfied in whole or in part, the judgment creditor, at any time
*As amended by act of 1875.
after such return is made, shall be entitled to an order from the judge of
the court, requiring such judgment debtor to appear and answer concern
ing his property before such judge, or a referee appointed by him, at a
time and place specified in the order; but no judgment debtor shall be re
quired to attend before a judge or referee out of the county in which he
resides, when proceedings are taken under the provisions of this chapter.

Sec. 241. After the issuing of an execution against property, and
upon proof by affidavit of a party, or otherwise to the satisfaction of the
court or a judge thereof, that any judgment debtor has property which he
unjustly refuses to apply toward the satisfaction of the judgment, such
court or judge may, by an order, require the judgment debtor to appear at
a specified time and place before such judge or a referee appointed by him,
to answer concerning the same; and such proceedings may thereupon be
had for the application of the property of the judgment debtor toward the
satisfaction of the judgment, as are provided upon the return of an execu
tion.

Sec. 242. After the issuing of an execution against property, any
person indebted to the judgment debtor may pay to the sheriff the amount
of his debt, or so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy the execu
tion; and the sheriff's receipt shall be a sufficient discharge for the amount
so paid.

Sec. 243. After the issuing or return of an execution against
property of the judgment debtor, or of any one of the several debtors in the
same judgment, and upon proof by affidavit or otherwise to the satisfac
tion of the judge that any person or corporation has property of such judg
ment debtor, or is indebted to him in an amount exceeding fifty dollars, the
judge may, by an order, require such person or corporation, or any officer
or member thereof, to appear at a specified time and place before him or a
referee appointed by him, and answer concerning the same.

Sec. 244. Witnesses may be required to appear and testify before
the judge or referee, upon any proceeding under this chapter, in the same
manner as upon the trial of an issue.

Sec. 245. The judge or referee may order any property of the
judgment debtor, not exempt from execution, in the hands of such debtor
or any other person, or due to the judgment debtor, to be applied toward
the satisfaction of the judgment, except that the earnings of the debtor for
his personal services, at any time within thirty days next preceding the
order, shall not be so applied, when it shall be made to appear by the
debtor's affidavit or otherwise that such earnings are necessary for the use
of a family supported wholly or partly by his labor.
(2682j Sec. 246. If it appear that a person or corporation alleged to have
property of the judgment debtor or indebted to him, claims an interest in
the property adverse to him or denies the debt, the court or judge may au
thorize, by an order made to that effect, the judgment creditor to institute
an action against such person or corporation for the recovery of such inter
est or debt; and the court or judge may, by order, forbid a transfer or other disposition of such interest or debt, until an action can be commenced
and prosecuted to judgment. Such order may be modified or vacated by
the judge granting the same, or the court in which the action is brought,
at any time upon such terms as may be just. In addition to the remedy
provided in this and the six preceding sections, the plaintifff in any such
execution may proceed against the defendants therein and other parties by
original complaint in the nature of a creditor's bill in equity, to obtain sat
isfaction of his execution after the same shall have been returned unsatis
fied in whole or- in part, as the case may be.

Sec. 247. If any person, party or witnesses disobey an order of the
referee, properly made in the proceedings before him under this chapter, he
may be punished by the court or judge ordering the reference, for a con
tempt.
Actions in Particular Cases. —Actions for the Foreclosure of Mortgages.

Sec' 248. In an action for the foreclosure or satisfaction of a
mortgage of real property, or the satisfaction of a lien or encumbrance upon
property, real or personal, the court shall have power by its judgment to
direct a sale of the property, or any part of it, and to direct the application
of the proceeds to the payment of the amount due on the mortgage, lien or
encumbrance, with costs and execution for the balance.

Sec. 249. If there be surplus money remaining after payment of
the amount due on the mortgage, lien or encumbrance, with costs, the court
may cause the same to be paid to the person entitled to it, and, in the mean
time, may direct it to be deposited in court.

Sec. 250. If the debt for which the mortgage, lien or incum
brance is held to be not all due, so soon as sufficient of the property has
been sold to pay the amount due with costs, the sale shall cease: and after
ward, as often as more becomes due for prinoipal or interest, the court may,
on motion, order more to be sold. But if the property cannot be sold in
portions without injury to the parties, the whole may be ordered to be sold
in the first instance, and the entire debt and costs paid, there being a re
bate of interest where such rebate is proper.
Actions for Nuisance, Waste and Willful Trespass in certain cases on
Real Property.

Sec. 251. Anything which is injurious to health, or indecent or
offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property so as to
interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, is a nuisance
and the subject of an action. Such action may be brought by any person
whose property is injuriously affected, or whose personal enjoyment is les
sened by the nuisance; and by the judgment the nuisance may be enjoined
or abated as well as damages recovered.

Sec. 252. If a guardian, tenant for life or years, joint tenant or
tenant in common of real property, commit waste thereon, any person ag
grieved by the waste may bring an action against him therefore, in which ac
tion there may be judgment for treble damages.

Sec. 253. Any person who shall cut down or carry off any wood
or underwood, tree or timber, or girdle or otherwise injure any tree or tim
ber on the land of another person, or on the street or highway in front of
any person's house, village lot, or cultivated grounds; or on the commons
or public grounds of any village or town; or on the street or highway in
front thereof, without lawful authority—shall be liable to the owner of such
land, or to such village or town, for treble the amount of damages which
may be assessed therefore, in a civil action, in any court having jurisdiction.

Sec. 254. Nothing in the last section shall authorize the recovery
of more than the just value of the timber taken from uncultivated wood
land, for the repair of a public highway or bridge upon the land or adjoin
ing it.

Sec. 255. If a person recover damages for a forcible or unlawful
entry in or upon, or detention of, any building or any cultivated real proproperty, judgment may be entered for three times the amount at which
the actual damages are assessed.
Actions to determine conflicting Claims to Real Property and other Pro
visions relating to Actions concerning Real Estate.

Sec. 256. An action mav be brought by any person
pcxsernwho claims
an estate or interest thwsia adverse to bim, for the purpose of determin
ing such adverse claim, cota-to of interest.

Sec 257. If the defendant in such action disclaim, in his answer,
any interest or estate in the property, or suffer judgment to be taken
against him without answer, the plaintifff shall not recover costs.

Sec. 258. In an action for the recovery of real property, where
the plaintifff shows a right to recover at the time the action was commenced,
but it appears that his right has terminated during the pendency of the
action, the verdict and judgment shall be according to the fact; and the
plaintifff may recover damages for withholding the property.

Sec. 259. When damages are claimed for withholding the pro
perty recovered, upon which permanent improvements have been made by
a defendant or those under whom he claims, holding under color of title
adversely to the claims of the plaintifff in good faith, the value of such im
provements shall be allowed as a set-off against such damages.

Sec. 260. The court in which an action is pending for the re
covery of real property may, on motion, upon notice by either party, for
good cause shown, grant an order allowing such party the right to enter
upon the property and make survey and measurement thereof for the pur
poses of the action.

Sec 2G1. The order shall describe the property, and a copy
thereof shall be served on the owner or occupants, and thereupon such
party may enter upon the property, with necessary surveyors or assistants,
and may make such survey and measurements; but if any unnecessary in
jury be done to the property he shall be liable therefore.

Sec. 262. A mortgage of real property shall not be deemed a
conveyance, whatever its terms, so as to enable the owner of the mortgage
to recover possession of the real property without a foreclosure and sale.

Sec. 263. The court may, by injunction, on good cause shown,
restrain the party in possession from doing any act to the injury of real pro
perty during the foreclosure of a mortgage thereon, or after a sale on exe
cution before a conveyance.

Sec 264. When real property shall have been sold on execution,
the purchaser thereof, or any person who may have succeeded to his inter
est, may, after his estate becomes absolute, recover damages for injury to
the property by the tenant in possession after sale and before possession is
delivered under the conveyance.

Sec. 265. An action for the recovery of real property against a
person in possession cannot be prejudiced by any alienation made by such
person either before or after the commencement of the action.
Actions for the Partition of Real Property.

Sec. 266. "When several persons hold and are in possession of
real property as joint tenants or as tenants in common, in which one or
more of them have an estate of inheritance or for life, an action may be
brought by one or more of such persons for a partition thereof, according
to the respective rights of the persons interested therein, and for sale of
such property or a part of it, if it appear that a partition cannot be made
without great prejudice to the owners.

Sec. 267. The interests of all persons in the property, whether
such persons be known or unknown, shall be set forth in the complaint
specifically and particularly, as far as known to the plaintifff, and if one or
more of the parties, or the share or quantity of interest of any of the par
ties, be unknown to the plaintifff, or be uncertain or contingent, or the
ownership of the inheritance depend upon an executory devise, or the re
mainder be a contingent remainder, so that such parties cannot be named,
that fact shall be set forth in the complaint.

Sec. 268. No persons who have or claim any liens upon the pro
perty by mortgage, judgment, or otherwise, need be made parties to the
action, unless such liens be matters of record.

Sec. 269. Immediately after filing the complaint, the plaintifff
shall file with the recorder of the county in which the property is situated
a notice of the pendency of the action, containing the names of the par
ties so far as known, the object of the action, and a description of the pro
perty to be affected thereby. From the time of the filing it shall be deemed
notice to all persons.

Sec. 270. The summons shall be directed to all the joint tenants
and tenants in common, and all persons having any interest in or any liens
of record by mortgage, judgment, or otherwise, upon the property or upon
any particular portion thereof; and, generally, to all persons unknown who
have or claim to have any interest in the property.

Sec. 271. If a party having a share or interest is unknown, or
any one of the known parties reside out of the Territory, or cannot be
found therein, and such fact is made to appear by affidavit, the summons
may be served on such absent or unknown party by publication, as in other
cases. When publication is made,* the summons as published shall be
accompanied by a brief description of the property which is the subject of
the action.

Sec. 272. The defendants who have been personally served with
the summons and a copy of the complaint shall set forth in their answers
fully and particularly the nature and extent of their interest in the
property; and if such defendants claim a lien upon the property by mort
gage, judgment or otherwise, they shall state the amount and date of the
same, and the anynnt remaining due thereon, and whether the amount has
been secured in any other way or not; and, if secured, the extent and
nature of the security; or they shall be deemed to have waived their right
to such lien.

Sec. 273. The rights of the several parties, plaintifffs as well as
defendants, may be put in issue, tried and determined by such action; and
when a sale of the premises is necessary, the title shall be ascertained by
proof to the satisfaction of the court before the judgment of sale shall be
made; and where service of the complaint has been made by publication,
like proof shall be required of the right of the absent or unknown parties
before such judgment is rendered, except that where there are several un
known persons having an interest in the property, their rights may be con
sidered together in the action, and not as between themselves.

Sec. 274. The plaintifff shall produce to the court, on the hearing
of the case, the certificate of the recorder of the county where the property
is situated, showing whether there were or not any liens outstanding of
record upon the property, or any part thereof, at the time of the com
mencement of the action.

Sec. 275. If it appear by the certificate of the recorder that there
were outstanding liens of record at the time of the commencement of the
action, and the persons holding or claiming such liens are not made parties
to the action, the court shall either order such parties to be brought in by
an amendment or supplemental complaint, or appoint a referee to ascertain
whether their liens have been paid, or, if not paid, what amount remains
due, and their order among the liens held by the parties who have
appeared and answered; and whether the amount remaining due thereon
has been secured in any way, and, if secured, the extent and nature of the
security.

Sec. 276. The plaintifff shall cause a notice to be served a reason
able time previous to the day for appearance before the referee appointed,
as provided in the last section, on each person having outstanding liens of
record, who is not a party to the action, to appear beforo the referee at a
specified time and place, to make proof by his own affidavit, or otherwise,
of the true amount due, or to become due, contingently or absolutely,
thereon. In case such person be absent, or his residence be unknown, ser
vice may be made by publication or notice to his agents, under the direc
tion of the court, in such manner as may be proper. The report of the
referee thereon shall be made to the court, and shall be confirmed, modi
fied or set aside, and a new reference ordered, as the justice of the case may
require.

Sec. 277. If it be alleged in the complaint and be established by
evidence, or if it appear by the evidence without such allegation in the
complaint, to the satisfaction of the court, that the property, or any part of
it, is so situated that partition cannot be made without great prejudice to
the owners, the court may order a sale thereof. Otherwise, upon the
requisite proofs being made, it shall order a partition according to the
respective rights of the parties, as ascertained by the qpurt, and appoint
three referees therefore; and shall designate the portion to remain undivided
for the owners whose interests remain unknown or are not ascertained.

Sec. 278. In making the partition, referees shall divide the
property and allot the several portions thereof to the respective parties,
quality and quantity relatively considered, according to the respective
rights of the parties, as determined by the court, designating the several
portions by proper landmarks; and may employ a surveyor, with the neces
sary assistants, to aid them therein.

Sec. 279. The referees shall make a report of their proceedings,
specifying therein the manner of executing their trust, describing the
property divided and the shares allotted to each party, with a particular
description of each share.

Sec. 280. The court may confirm or set aside the report, and, if
necessary, appoint new referees. Upon the report being confirmed, judg
ment shall be rendered that such partition be effectual forever; which judg
ment shall be binding and conclusive:
1st. On all persons named as parties to the action and their legal repre
sentatives, who have at the time any interest in the property divided, or
any part thereof, as owners in fee, or as tenants for life or for years; or as
entitled to the reversion, remainder, or the inheritance of such property, or
of any part thereof, after the termination of a particular estate therein;
and who, by any contingency, may be entitled to a beneficial interest in the
property, or who have an interest in any undivided share thereof as tenants
for years or for life;
2d. On all persons interested in the property who may be unknown, to
whom notice shall have been given of the action for partition by publica
tion; and
3d. On all other persons claiming from such parties or persons, or either
of them.

Sec. 281. But such judgment and partition shall not affect
tenants for years less than ten, to the whole of the property which is the
subject of the partition.

Sec. 282. The expenses of the referees, including those of a surveyor and his assistant, when employed, shall be ascertained and allowed
by the court; and the amount thereof, together with the fees allowed by
law to the referees, shall be apportioned among the different parties to the
action.

Sec. 283. When a lien is on an undivided interest or estate of
any of the parties, such lien, if a partition be made, shall thenceforth be a
charge only on the share assigned to such party; but such share shall be
first charged with its just proportion of the costs of the partition, in prefer
ence to such lien.

Sec. 284. When a part of the property only is ordered to be sold,
if there be an estate for life or years in an undivided share of the whole
property, such estate may be set off in any part of the property not ordered
to be sold.

Sec. 285. The proceeds of the sale of the incumbered property
shall be applied, under the direction of the court, as follows:
1st. To pay its just proportion of the general costs of the action;
2d. To pay the costs of the reference;
3d. To satisfy and cancel of record the several liens in their order of
priority, by payment of the sums due and to become due; the amount due
to be verified by affidavit at the time of payment;
4th. The residue among the owners of the property sold, according to
their respective shares therein.

Sec. 286. Whenever any party to an action who holds a lien upon
the property, or any part thereof, has other securities for the payment of
the amount of such lien, the court may, in its discretion, order such securi
ties to be exhausted before a distribution of the proceeds of sale, or may
order a just deduction to be made from the amount of the lien on the
property on account thereof.

Sec. 287. The proceeds of sale, and the securities taken by the
referees, or any part thereof, shall be distributed by them to the persons en
titled thereto, whenever the court so directs. But, in case no direction be
given, all such proceeds and securities shall be paid into court, or deposited
therein, or as directed by the court.

Sec. 288. When the proceeds of sales of any shares or parcels be
longing to persons who are parties to the action and who are known are
paid into court, the action may be continued, as between such parties, for
the determination of their respective claims thereto, which shall be ascer
tained and adjudged by the court. Further testimony may be taken in
court, or by a referee, at the discretion of the court, and the court may, if
necessary, require such parties to present the facts or law in controversy, by
pleadings, as in an original action.

Sec. 289. All sales of real property, made by referees under this
chapter, shall be made by public auction to the highest bidder, upon notice
published in the manner required for the sale of real property on execution.
The notice shall state the terms of sale, and, if the property or any part of
it is to be sold subject to a prior estate, charge or lien, that shall be stated
in the notice.

Sec. 290. The court shall, in the order for sale, direct the terms
of credit which may be allowed for the purchase-money of any portion of
the premises of which it may direct a sale on credit, and for that portion
of which the purchase-money is required, by the provisions hereinafter con
tained, to be invested for the benefit of unknown owners, infants or parties
out of the Territory.

Sec. 291. The referees may take separate mortgages and other secnrities for the whole on convenient portions of the purchase-money, of such
parts of the property as are directed by the court to be sold on credit, in
the name of the clerk of the court and his successors in office; and for the
shares of any known owner of full age, in the name of such owner; and for
the shares of an infant, in the name of the guardian of such infant.

Sec. 292. The person entitled to a tenancy for life or years, whose
estate shall have been sold, shall be entitled to receive such sum as may be
deemed a reasonable satisfaction for such estate, and which the person so
entitled may consent to accept instead thereof, by an instrument in writing
filed with the clerk of the court. Upon the filing of such consent the clerk
shall enter the same in the minutes of the court.

Sec. 293. If such consent be not given, filed and entered, as pro
vided in the last section, at or before a judgment of sale is rendered, the
court shall ascertain and determine what proportion of the proceeds of the
sale, after deducting expenses, will be a just and reasonable sum to be al
lowed on account of such estate; and shall order the same to be paid to
such party or deposited in court for him, as the case may require.

Sec. 294. If the persons entitled to such estate for life or years
be unknown, the court shall provide for the protection of their rights in
the same manner, as far as may he, as if they were known and had ap
peared.

Sec. 295. Tn all cases of sales, when it appears that any person
has a vested or contingent future right or estate in any of the property
sold, the court shall ascertain and settle the proportional value of such con
tingent or vested right or estate, and shall direct such proportion of the
proceeds of the sale to be invested, secured or paid over, in such manner as
to protect the rights and interests of the parties.

Sec. 296. In all cases of sales of property, the terms shall be
made known at the time; and if the premises consist of distinct farms or
lots, they shall be sold separately.

Sec. 297. Neither of the referees, nor any person for the benefit
of either of them, shall be interested in any purchase; nor shall a guardian
of an infant party be interested in the purchase of any real property being
the subject of the action, except for the benefit of the infant. All sales
contrary to the provisions of this section shall be void.

Sec. 298. After completing a sale of the property or any part
thereof ordered to be sold, the referees shall report the same to the court,
with a description of the different parcels of land sold to each purchaser;
the name of the purchaser; the price paid or secured; the terms and conditions of the sale, and the securities, if any, taken. The report shall bo
filed in the office of the clerk of the county where the property is situated.

Sec 299. If the sale be confirmed by the court, an order shall be
entered directing the referees to execute conveyances and take securities
pursuant to such sale; which they are hereby authorized to do. Such order
may also give directions to them respecting the disposition of the proceeds
of the sale.

Sec. 300. When a party entitled to a share of the property, or an
encumbrancer entitled to have his lien paid out of the sale, becomes a pur
chaser, the referees may take his receipt for so much of the proceeds of the
sale as belong to him.

Sec 301. The conveyances shall be recorded in the county where
the premises are situated, and shall be a bar against all persons interested
in the property in any way; who shall have been named as parties in the
action; and against all such parties and persons as were unknown, if the
summons have been served by publication, and against all persons claiming
for them, or either of them.

Sec 302. When there are proceeds of a sale belonging to an un
known owner or to a person without the Territory, who has no legal repre
sentative within it, the same shall be invested in securities on interest, for
the benefit of the persons entitled thereto.

Sec 303. When the security of the proceeds of sale is taken, or
when an investment of any such proceeds is made, it shall be done, except
as herein otherwise provided, in the name of the clerk of the court where
the papers are filed, and his successor in office, who shall hold the same for
the use and benefit of the parties interested, subject to the order of the
court.

Sec 304. When security is taken by the referees on a sale, and the
parties interested in such security, by an instrument in writing under their
hands delivered to the referees, agree upon the shares and proportions to
which they are respectively entitled; or when shares and proportions have
been previously adjudged by the court, such securities shall be taken in the
names of, and payable to, the parties respectively entitled thereto; and
shall be delivered to such parties upon their receipt therefore. Such agree
ment and receipt shall be returned and filed with the clerk.

Sec 305. The clerk in whose name a security is taken, or by
whom an investment is made, and his successor in office, shall receive the
interest and principal as it becomes due, and apply and invest the same as
the court may direct; and shall file in his office all securities taken, and
keep an account in a book provided and kept for that purpose, in the clerk's
office, free for inspection by all persons, of investments and monies re
ceived by him thereon, and the disposition thereof.

Sec 306. When it appears that partition cannot be made equal
between the parties according to their respective rights, without prejudice
to the rights and interests of some of them, and a partition be ordered by
judgment, the court may adjudge compensation to be made by one party to another on account of the inequality of partition. But such compensation
shall not be required to be made to others, by owners unknown, nor by in
fants, unless, in case of an infant, it appear that he has personal property
sufficient for that purpose, and that his interest will be promoted thereby.

Sec 307. When the share of an infant is sold, the proceeds of
the sale may be paid by the referee making the sale to his general guar
dian, or the special guardian appointed for him in the action, upon giving
the security required by law, or directed by order of the court.

Sec. 308. The guardian who may be entitled to the custody and
management of the estate of an insane person, or other person adjudged
incapable of conducting his own affairs, whose interest in real property
shall have been sold, may receive, in behalf of such persons, his share of
the proceeds of such real property from the referee, on executing, with suf
ficient sureties, an undertaking approved by a judge of the court or judge
or probate that he will faithfully discharge the trust reposed in him, and
will render a true and just account to the person entitled, or to his legal
representative.

Sec. 309. The general guardian of an infant and the guardian
entitled to the custody and management of the estate of an insane person,
or other person adjudged incapable of conducting his own affairs, who is
interested in real estate held in "joint tenancy or in common, or in any
other manner so as to authorize his being made a party to an action for the
partition thereof, may consent to a partition without action, and agree
upon the share to be set off to such infant or other person entitled, and
may execute a release in his behalf to the owners of the shares of the parts
to which they may be respectively entitled, upon an order of the court.

Sec 310. The costs of partition, including fees of referees and
other disbursements, shall be paid by the parties respectively entitled to
share in the lauds divided, in proportion to their respective interests therein,
and may be included and specified in the judgment. In that case they
shall be a lien on the several shares, and the judgment may be enforced
by execution against such shares, and against other property held by the
respective parties. When, however, a litigation arises between some of
the parties only, the court may require the expenses of such litigation to
be paid by the parties thereto, or any of them.

Sec 311. The court, with the consent of the parties, may ap
point a single referee instead of three referees, in the proceedings under
the provisions of this chapter; and the single referee, when thus appointed,
shall have all the powers and perform all the duties required of the three
referees.
Actions for the Usurpation of an Office or Franchise.

Sec 312. An action may be brought by the attorney-general, in
the name of the Territory, upon his own information, or upon the com
plaint of a private party, against any person who usurps, intrudes into, or
unlawfully holds or exercises any public office, civil or military, or any franchise within this Territory. And it shall be the duty of the attorneygeneral to bring the action, whenever he has reason to believe that any such
office or franchise has been usurped, intruded into, or unlawfully held or
exercised by any person, or when he is directed to do so by the governor;
provided, that any person claiming such office or franchise may bring such
action, by applying for and obtaining leave of the court for that purpose.

Sec. 313. Whenever such action is brought, the attorney-general,
or other person, in addition to the statement of the cause of action, may
also set forth in the complaint the name of the person rightly entitled to
the office, with a statement of his right thereto; and in such case, upon
proof by affidavit that the defendant has received fees or emoluments be
longing to the office, and by means of his usurpation thereof, an order may
be granted by a judge of the supreme court, or a district judge, for the ar
rest of such defendant, and holding him to bail; and thereupon he may be
arrested and held to bail in the same manner and with the same effect, and
subject to the same rights and liabilities, as in other civil actions where the
defendant is subject to arrest.

Sec. 314. In every such case judgment may be rendered upon the
right of the defendant, and also upon the right of the party so alleged to
be entitled, or only upon the right of the defendant, as justice shall re
quire.

Sec. 315. If the judgment be rendered upon* the right of the
person so alleged to be entitled, and the same be in favor of such person, he
shall be entitled, after taking the oath of office, and executing such official
bond as may be required by law, to take upon himself the execution of the
office.

Sec. 316. If judgment be rendered upon the right of the person
so alleged to be entitled, in favor of such person, he may recover, by ac
tion, the damages which he shall have sustained by reason of the usurpa
tion of the office by the defendant.

Sec. 317. When several persons claim to be entitled to the same
office or franchise, one action may be brought against all such persons, in
order to try their respective rights to such office or franchise.

Sec. 318. When a defendant, against whom such action has been
brought, is adjudged guilty of usurping or intruding into, or unlawfully
holding, any office, franchise or privilege, judgment shall be rendered that
such defendant be excluded from the office, franchise or privilege, and that
he pay the costs of the action. The court may also, in its discretion, im
pose upon the defendant a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars; which
fine, when collected, shall be paid into the treasury of the Territory.
Of Actions against Steamers, Vessels and Boats.

Sec. 319. All steamers, vessels and boats shall be liable:
1st. For supplies furnished for their use at the request of their respec
tive owners, masters, agents or consignees;
2d. For services rendered on board at the request of, or contract with,
their respective owners, masters, agents or consignees;
3d. For materials furnished in their construction, or repair, or equip
ment.
4th. For their wharfage and anchorage within the Territory;
5th. For non-performance or mal-performance of any contract for the
transportation of persons or property made by their respective owners,
masters, agents or consignees;
6th. For injuries committed by them to persons or property; provided,
that the wages of mariners, boatmen and others employed in the service of
such steamers, vessels and boats shall have preference over all other de
mands.

Sec 320. Actions for demands arising upon any of the grounds
specified in the preceding section may be brought directly against such
steamers, vessels or boats.

Sec. 321. The complaint shall designate the steamer, vessel, or
boat by name, and shall be verified by the oath of the plaintifff, or some
one on his behalf.

Sec 322. The summons attached to a copy of the complaint may
be served on the master, mate or any person having charge of the steamer,
vessel or boat, against which the action is brought.

Sec 323/ The plaintifff at the time of issuing the summons, or at
any time afterward, may have the steamer, vessel or boat against which
the action is brought, with its tackle, apparel and furniture, attached, as
security for the satisfaction of any judgment that may be recovered therein.

Sec 324. The clerk of the court shall issue a writ of attachment
on the application of the plaintifff, upon receiving a written undertaking on
behalf of the plaintifff, executed by two or more sufficient sureties, to the
effect that if judgment be rendered in favor of the steamer, vessel or boat,
as the case may be, he will pay all costs and damages that may be awarded
against him, and all damages which may be sustained by such steamer,
vessel or boat, from the attachment, not exceeding the sum specified in the
undertaking, which shall in no case be less than five hundred dollars when
the attachment is issued against a steamer or vessel, or less than two hun
dred dollars when issued against a boat. The undertaking shall be accom
panied by an affidavit of each of the sureties, that he is a resident and
freeholder or householder of the county, and worth double the amount
specified in the undertaking over and above all his just debts and liabilities.
The clerk shall file the undertaking and affidavits.

Sec 325. The writ shall be directed to the sheriff of the county
within which the steamer, vessel or boat lies, and direct him to attach such
steamer, vessel or boat, with its tackle, apparel and furniture, and keep
the same in his custody until discharged by due course of law; unless the
owner, master, agent or consignee thereof give him security by the under
taking of at least two sufficient sureties, in an amount sufficient to satisfy
the demand in suit, which shall be specified in the writ, besides costs; in which case he release such steamer or other property and return such un
dertaking with his writ.

Sec. 326. The sheriff to whom the writ is directed and delivered
shall execute the same without delay, and shall, unless the undertaking
mentioned in the last section be given, attach and keep in his custody the
steamer, vessel or boat named therein, with its tackle, apparel and furni
ture, until discharged by due course of law; but the sheriff shall not be
authorized by any such writ to interfere with the discharge of any mer
chandise on board of such steamer, vessel or boat, nor with the removal of
any trunks or other property of passengers, or of the captain, mate, sea
men, steward, cook or other persons employed on board.

Sec 327. The owner, master, agent or consignee of the steamer,
vessel or boat against which the action is Drought, may appear and answer
or plead to the action; and may except to the sufficiency of the sureties on
the undertaking filed on the behalf of the plaintifff, and may require sure
ties to justify, as in actions against individuals upon bail on arrest.

Sec. 328. All proceedings in actions under the provisions of this
chapter shall be conducted in the same manner as in actions against indi
viduals, except as otherwise herein provided; and in all proceedings subse
quent to the complaint the steamer, vessel or boat may be designated as
defendant.

Sec 329. After the appearance to the action of the owner,
master, agent or consignee, the attachment may, on motion, be discharged
in the same manner, and on like terms and conditions as attachments in
other cases, subject to the provisions of section three hundred and thirtyone.

Sec 330. If the attachment he not discharged, and a judgment
be recovered in the action in favor of the plaintifff, and an execution bo
issued thereon, the sheriff shall sell at public auction, after publication of
notice of such sale for ten days, the steamer, vessel or boat, with its tackle,
apparel and furniture, or such interest therein as may be necessary, and
shall apply the proceeds of sale as follows:
1. When the action is brought for demands other than the wages of
mariners, boatmen, and others employed in the service of the steamer,
vessel or boat sold, to the payment of the amount of such wages, as speci
fied in the execution.
2. To the payment of the judgment and costs, including his fees; and,
3. He shall pay any balance remaining to the owner, master, agent or
consignee, who may have appeared in the action; or, if there be no appear
ance, then into court, subject to the claim of any party or parties legally
entitled thereto.

Sec 331. Any mariner, boatman, or other person employed in
the service of the steamer, vessel or boat attached, who may wish to assert
his claim for wages against the same, the attachments being issued for
other demands than such wages, shall file an affidavit of his claim, setting
forth the amount and the particular service rendered, with the clerk of tho court; and thereafter no attachment shall be discharged upon filing an un
dertaking, unless the amount of such claim, or the amount determined as
provided in the next section, be covered thereby in addition to the other
requirements; and any execution issued against such steamer, vessel or
boat, upon judgment recovered thereafter, shall direct the application of
the proceeds of any sale: First, to the payment of the amount of such
claims filed, or the amount determined, as provided in the next section,
which the clerk shall insert in the writ; and, second, to the payment of the
judgment and costs, and sheriff's fees; and shall direct the payment of any
balance to the owner, master, agent or consignee, who may have appeared
in the action; but if no appearance by them be made therein, it shall direct
a deposit of the balance in court.

Sec. 332. If the claim of the mariner, boatman or other person,
filed with the clerk of the court, as provided in the last section, be not con
tested within five days after notice of the filing thereof by the owner,
master, agent or consignee of the steamer, vessel or boat, against which the
claim is filed, it shall be deemed admitted; but if contested, the clerk shall
indorse upon the affidavit thereof a statement that it is contested, and the
grounds of the contest; and shall immediately thereafter order the matter
to a single referee for his determination, or he may hear the proofs and
determine the matter himself. The judgment of the clerk or referee may
be received by the judge, either in term or vacation, immediately after the
same is given, and the judgment of the judge shall be final. On the review
the judge may use the minutes of the proofs taken by the clerk or referee,
or may take the proofs anew.

Sec. 333. The notice of sale published by the sheriff shall contain
a statement of the measurement and tonnage of the steamer, vessel or boat,
and a general description of her condition.

Sec. 334. From orders and judgments under this chapter, an
appeal may be taken by the owner, master, agent or consignee, on the same
terms and conditions as appeals in actions against individuals.
Of Appeals in Civil Actions—Appeals in General.

Sec. 335. A judgment or order in a civil action, except when
made final by this chapter, may be reviewed as prescribed by this chapter,
and not otherwise.

Sec. 336. An order made out of court, without notice to the
adverse party, may be vacated or modified, without notice, by the judge
who made it; or may be vacated or modified on notice, in the manner in
which other motions are made.

Sec. 337. Any party aggrieved may appeal in the cases prescribed
in this chapter. The party appealing shall be known as the appellant, and
the adverse party as the respondent.

Sec. 338. An appeal may be taken:
1. From a final judgment in an action or special proceeding commenced
in the court in which the judgment is rendered, within one year after the
rendition of the judgment.
2. From a judgment rendered on an appeal from an inferior court, •
within ninety days after the rendition of the judgment.
3. From an order made by the probate court which, by law, may be
appealed from, within sixty days after the order is made and entered by
the clerk.
This section shall not extend to appeals to the district courts from orders
or judgments of the probate courts, but shall extend to judgments rendered
in the district courts upon such appeals.

Sec. 339. The appeal shall be made by filing with the clerk of
the court with whom the judgment or order appealed from is entered, a £^
notice stating the appeal from the same, or some specific part thereof, and ^
serving a copy of the notice upon the adverse party or his attorney.

Sec. 340. When the party who has the right to appeal wishes a
statement of the case to be annexed to the record of the judgment or order,
he shall, within twenty days after the entry of such judgment or order,
prepare such statement, which shall contain the grounds upon which he in
tends to rely on the appeal, and so much of the evidence as may be neces
sary to explain the grounds, and no more, and shall serve a copy thereof
upon the adverse party. The respondent may, within five days thereafter,
prepare amendments to the statement, and serve a copy on the appellant.
If such amendments are admitted, the statement shall be corrected accord
ingly; and, if not admitted, the statement and amendment shall be pre
sented to the judge who tried or heard the case, upon notice of two days to
the respondent, and a true statement shall thereupon be settled by such
judge.

Sec. 341. If the party shall omit to make a statement within the
time above limited, he shall be deemed to have waived his right thereto;
and when a statement is made and the parties shall omit within the several
times above limited, the one party to propose amendments, the other to
notify an appearance before the judge, they shall respectively be deemed,
the former to have agreed to the statement as proposed, and the latter to
have agreed to the amendments as proposed.

Sec. 342. The several periods of time above limited may be en
larged, upon good cause shown by the judge before whom the cause was
tried.

Sec. 343. The statement, when settled by the judge, shall be
signed by him, with the certificate that the same has been allowed and is
correct; when the statement is agreed upon by the parties, they or their
attorneys shall sign the same, with their certificate that it has been agreed
upon by them and is correct. In either case, when settled or agreed upon,
it shall be filed with the clerk.

Sec. 344. The clerk shall annex the statement, if the appeal be
from a final judgment, to the judgment roll; if the appeal be from an
order, to such order or to a copy thereof.

Sec. 345. The provisions of the last five preceding sections shall
not apply to appeals taken from an order made upon affidavits filed; but
such affidavits shall be annexed to the order in the place of the statement
mentioned in those sections.

Sec. 34G. Upon an appeal from a judgment, the court may re
view any intermediate order involving the merits and necessarily affecting
the judgment.

Sec. 347. Upon an appeal from a judgment or order, the appel
late court may reverse, affirm or modify the judgment or order appealed
from, in the respect mentioned in the notice of appeal, and as to any or all
of the parties; and may set aside or confirm, or modify, any or all of the
proceedings subsequent to, or dependent upon, such judgment or order;
and may, if necessary or proper, order a new trial. When the judgment
or order is reversed or modified, the appellate court may make complete
restitution of all property and rights lost by the erroneous judgment or
order;Band, when it appears to the appellate court that the appeal was
made for delay, it may add to the costs such damages as may be just.
(.i784) Sec 348. On an appeal from a final judgment, the appellant
shall furnish the court a copy of the notice of appeal, the judgment roll,
and the statement annexed, certified by the clerk to be a correct copy. On
appeal from a judgment rendered on an appeal or order, the appellant shall
furnish the court with a copy of the notice of appeal, the judgment or
order appealed from, and a copy of the papers used on the hearing of the
court below; such copies to be certified by the clerk to be correct. If any
written opinion be given on rendering the judgment or making the order in
the court below, a copy shall be furnished. If the appellant fail to furnish
the requsite papers, the appeal may be dismissed; and whenever costs are
awarded to a party by an appellate court, such party may have execution
for the same on filing a remittitur with the clerk below, who shall there
upon issue the execution upon application therefore; and whenever costs are
awarded to a party by an order of any court of record, such party may hare
execution therefore in like manner as upon a judgment.
Appeals to the Supreme Court from the District Court.
(278"i) Sec. 349. An appeal may be taken to the supreme court from
the district courts in the following cases:
2. From the final judgment rendered in an action or special proceeding
commenced in those courts or brought into those courts from another court;
2. From an order made granting or refusing a new trial or which affects
*
a substantial right in an action or special proceeding, i t^, iv^y "]%<£***' /')

Sec. 350. To render an appeal effectual for any purpose, in any
'
case, a written undertaking shall be executed on the part of the appellant,
by at least two sureties, to the effect that the appellant will pay all damages
and costs which may be awarded against him on the appeal, not exceeding
three hundred dollars, or that sum shall be deposited with the clerk by
whom the judgment or order was entered, to abide the event of the appeal.
Such undertaking shall be filed or such deposit mado with the clerk within
twenty days after the notice of appeal is filed, or such further time as the
court, upon application, may allow.*

Sec. 351. If the appeal be from a judgment or order directing the
payment of money, it shall not stay the execution of the judgment or order
unless a written undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant by
two or more sureties, stating their places of residence and occupation, to
the effect that they are bound in double the amount named in the
judgment or order, that, if the judgment or order appealed from, or
any part thereof, be affirmed, the appellant shall pay the amount directed
to be paid by the judgment or order, or the part of such amount as to which
the judgment or order shall be affirmed, if affirmed only in part, and all
damages and costs which shall be awarded against the appellant upon the
appeal.

Sec. 352. If the judgment or order appealed from direct the
assignment or delivery of documents, or personal property, the execution
of the judgment or order shall not be stayed by appeal unless the things
required to be assigned or delivered be placed in the custody of such officer
or receiver as the court may appoint; or unless an undertaking be entered
into on the part of the appellant, with at least two sureties, and in such
amount as the court or the judge thereof may direct, to the effect that the
appellant will obey ihc order of the appellate court upon the appeal.

Sec. 353. If the judgment or order appealed from direct the exe
cution of a conveyance or other instrument, the execution of the judgment
or order shall not be stayed by the appeal until the instrument is executed
and deposited with the clerk, to abide the judgment of the appellate court.

Sec. 354. If the judgment or order appealed from direct the sale
or delivery of possession of real property, the execution of the same shall
not be stayed, unless a written undertaking be executed on the part of the
appellant, with two or more sureties, to the effect that during the posses
sion of such property by the appellant he will not commit, or suffer to be
committed, any waste thereon, and that, if the judgment be affirmed, he
will pay the value of the use and occupation of the property from the
time of the appeal until the delivery of possession thereof, pursuant to
the judgment or order, not exceeding a sum to be fixed by the judge of the
court by which the judgment was rendered or order made, and which shall
be specified in the undertaking. When the judgment is for the sale of
mortgaged premises, and the payment of a deficiency arising upon the sale,
the undertaking shall also provide for the payment of such deficiency.

Sec. 355. Wheuever an appeal is perfected, as provided by the
preceding sections in this chapter, it shall stay all further proceedings in
the court below upon the judgment or order appealed from, or upon the
matter embraced therein; but the court below may proceed upon any other
matter included in the action, and not affected by the judgment or order
appealed from. And the court below may, in its discretion, dispense with,
•As amended by act of 1865.
or limit, the security required by said sections, when the appellant is an
executor, administrator, trustee, or other person acting in another's right,

Sec 356. The undertaking prescribed by sections three hundred
and fifty-one, three-hundred and fifty-two, three hundred and fifty-three
and three hundred and fifty-four, may be in one instrument or several, at
the option of the appellant.

Sec. 357. An undertaking upon an appeal shall be of no effect
unless it be accompanied by the affidavit of the sureties that they are each
worth double the amount specified therein, over and above all their just
debts and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution. The
adverse party may, however, except to the sufficiency of the sureties within
five days after the filing of the undertaking; and unless they or other sure
ties justify before a judge of the court below, or the district clerk, within
five days thereafter (upon notice to the adverse party), the appeal shall be
regarded as if no such undertaking had been given.

Sec. 358. In cases not provided for in sections three hundred and
fifty-one, three hundred and fifty-two, three hundred and fifty-three and
three hundred and fifty-four, the perfecting of an appeal by giving the un
dertaking, and the justification of the sureties thereon, if required, or mak
ing the deposit mentioned in section three hundred and fifty, shall stay pro
ceedings in the court below upon the judgment or order appealed from;
except that where it directs the sale of perishable property, the court below
may order the property to be sold and the proceeds therof to be deposited,
to abide the judgment of the appellate court.
(•-2795) Sec. 359. Appeals in the supreme court from a final judgment,
and from a judgment rendered on an appeal, shall be heard at a general
term. Appeals in all other cases may be heard at a special term.*

Sec. 3G0. When judgment is rendered upon the appeal, it shall
be certified by the clerk of the supreme court to the clerk with whom the
judgment roll is filed. In cases of appeal from the judgment, the clerk
with whom the roll is filed shall attach the certificate to the judgment
roll, and enter a minute of the judgment of the supreme court on the
docket against the original entry. In case of appeal from an order, the
clerk shall enter at length in the records of the court the certificate re
ceived, and minute against the entry of the order appealed from a refer
ence to the certificate, with a brief statement that such order has been
affirmed, reversed or modified, as the case may be, by the supreme court, on
appeal.
Appeals from Justices' Courts. —Appeals to the District Courts from
Justices' Courts.

Sec. 361. In all appeals from justices' courts to the district court
after the returns are filed, the court shall proceed to examine such returns
and render judgment thereon as the right of the case shall appear, without
regard to technicalities or imperfections in pleadings, if they do not tend to
the prejudice of the rights of any party.
•As amended by act of 1865.

Sec. 362. Such judgment may be rendered upon the returns, or
the court may order the same to be tried anew in the district court, as sub
stantial justice may require.

Sec. 363. Appeals to the district courts, as provided in this chap
ter, shall be heard at any terms of those courts, and shall be brought on to
a hearing at the earliest period practicable.

Sec 364. The appellant shall furnish the papers to the appellate
court in the same manner as upon an appeal to the supreme court. Causes
on appeal shall be tried anew in the appellate court, if the court so direct.
Appeals to the District Courts from the Probate Courts.

Sec 365. An appeal may be taken from a probate court to the
district court of the district in which the probate court is held, in the fol
lowing cases:
1 . From an order or decree admitting a will to probate or refusing the
same.
2. From an order setting apart property or making an allowance for the
widow or children.
3. From an order granting letters testamentary or of administration, or
appointing a guardian of an infant, or of an insane person, or of a person
incompetent to manage his property, or refusing to grant such letters or to
make such appointment, or making such letters or appointment.
4. From an order directing the sale or conveyance of real property.
5. From an order or decree by which a debt, claim, legacy or distribu
tive share is allowed, or payment thereof directed; or by which such allow
ance or direction is refused.
6. From an order made on the settlement of an executor, administrator
or guardian.

Sec 366. The appeal shall be taken within thirty days after the
order or decree appealed from is entered with the clerk.

Sec 367. Appeals from the probate court shall be heard at any
terms of the district courts, and be brought on at the earliest period prac
ticable.

Sec 368. For a failure to prosecute an appeal from the probate
court, or an unnecessary delay in bringing it to a hearing, the district court
may order the appeal to be dismissed.

Sec 369. If the appeal be dismissed as provided in the preceding
section, the clerk shall file a certified copy of the order dismissing the same
in the probate court, and thereupon such court may proceed in the case as
if no appeal had been taken.
Miscellaneous Proceedings. —Proceedings against Jojnt Debtors.

Sec 370. When a judgment is recovered against any one or more
of several persons jointly indebted upon an obligation, by proceedings, as
provided in section thirty-two, those who were not originally served with the summons, and did not appear to the action, may be summoned to show
cause why they should not be bound by the judgment in the same manner
as though they had been originally served with the summons.

Sec. 371. The summons, as provided in the last section, shall de
scribe the judgment, and require the person summoned to show cause why
he should not be bound by it, and shall be served in the same manner, and
returnable within the same time, as the original summons. It shall not be
necessary to file a new complaint.

Sec 372. The summons should be accompanied by an affidavit of
the plaintifff, his agent, representative or attorney, that the judgment or
some part thereof remains unsatisfied; and shall specify the amount due
thereon.

Sec 373. Upon such summons the defendant may answer within
the time specified therein, denying the judgment, or setting up any defense
which may have arisen subsequently; or he may deny his liability on" the
obligation upon which the judgment was recovered, except a discharge from
such liability by the statute of limitation.

Sec 374. If the defendant in his answer deny the judgment,
or set up any defense which may have arisen subsequently, the summons,
with the affidavit annexed, and the answer, shall constitute the written
allegations in the case; if he deny his liability on the obligation upon which
the judgment was recovered, a copy of the original complaint and judg
ment, the summons, with the affidavit annexed, and the answer, shall con
stitute such written allegations.

Sec 375. The issues formed may be tried as in other cases; but
when the defendant denies in his answer any liability on the obligation
upon which the judgment was rendered, if a verdict be found against him.
it shall be for the amount remaining unsatisfied on such original judgmeut,
with interest thereon.
Confession of Judgment without Action.

Sec 376. A judgment by confession may be entered without ac
tion, either for money due or to become due, or to secure any person against
contingent liability on behalf of the defendant, or both, in the manner
prescribed in this chapter.

Sec 377. A statement in writing shall be made, signed by the
defendant, and verified by his oath, to the following effect:
1st. It shall authorize the entry of judgment for a specified sum.
2d. If it be for money due or to become due, and shall state concisely the
facts out of which it arose, and shall show that the sum confessed therefore
is justly due or to become due.
3d. If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintifff against a contingent
liability, it shalf state concisely the facts constituting the liability, and shall
show that the sum confessed therefore does not exceed the same.

Sec. 378. The statement shall be filed with the clerk of the court
in which the judgment is to be entered, who shall indorse upon it, and
enter in the judgment book a judgment of such court for the amount con
fessed, with ten dollars costs. The statement and affidavit, with the judg
ment indorsed, shall thereupon become the judgment-roll.
Submitting a Controversy without Action.

Sec. 379. Parties to a question in difference which might be the
subject of a civil action, may, without action, agree upon a case containing
the facts npon which the controversy depends, and present a submission of
the same to any court which should have jurisdiction if an action had been
brought. But it must appear by affidavit that the controversy is real, and
the proceedings in good faith, to determine the rights of the parties. The
court shall thereupon hear and determine the case, and render judgment
thereon as if an action were depending.

Sec. 380. Judgment shall be entered in the judgment book, as
in other cases, but without costs, for any proceedings prior to the trial.
The case, the submission, and a copy of the judgment shall constitute the
judgment roll.

Sec. 381. The judgment may be enforced in the same manner as
if it had been rendered in an action, and shall be in the same manner sub
ject to appeal.
Of Arbitrations.

Sec. 382. Persons capable of contracting may submit to arbitra
tion any controversy which might be the subject of a civil action between
them, except a question of title to real property in fee or for life. This
qualification shall not include questions relating merely to the partition or
boundaries of real property.

Sec. 383. The submission to arbitration shall be in writing, and
may be to one or more persons.

Sec. 384. It may be stipulated in the submission that it be en
tered as an order of the district pourt, for which purpose it shall be filed
with the clerk of the county where the parties, or one of them, reside.
The clerk shall thereupon enter in his register of actions a note of the sub
mission, with the names of the parties, the names of the arbitrators, the
date of the submission, when filed, and the time limited by the submission,
if any, within which. the award shall be made. When so entered, the sub
mission shall not be revoked without the consent of both parties. The ar
bitrators may be compelled by the court to make an award, and the award
may be enforced by the court in the same manner as a judgment. If the
submission be not made an order of the court, it may be revoked at any
time before the award is made.

Sec. 385. Arbitrators shall have power to appoint a time and
place for hearing, to adjourn from time to time, to administer oaths to
witnesses, to hear the allegations and evidence of the parties, and to make
an award thereon.

Sec. 386. x\ll tho arbitrators shall meet and act together during
the investigation; but when met a majority may determine any question.
Before acting they shall be sworn before an officer authorized to administer
oaths, faithfully and fairly to hear and examine the allegations and evidence
of the parties in relation to the matters in controversy, and to make a just
award according to their understanding.

Sec. 387. The award shall be in writing, signed by the arbitra
tors, or a majority of them, and delivered to the parties. When the sub
mission is made an order of the court the award shall be filed with the clerk,
and a note thereof made in his register. After the expiration of five days
from the filing of the award, upon the application of a party, and on filing
an affidavit showing that notice of filing the award has been served on the
adverse party or his attorney at least four days prior to such application,
and that no order staying the entry of judgment has been served, the
award shall be entered by the clerk in the judgment book, and shall there
upon have the effect of a judgment.

Sec. 388. The court, on motion, may vacate the award upon either
of the following grounds, and may order a new hearing before the same ar
bitrators, or not, in its discretion:
1. That it was procured by corruption or fraud.
2. That the arbitrators were guilty of misconduct or committed gross
error in refusing, on cause shown, to postpone the hearing, or in refusing
to hear pertinent evidence; or otherwise acted improperly, in a manner by
which the rights of the party were prejudiced.
3. That the arbitrators exceeded their powers in making their award, or
that they refused or improperly omitted to consider a part of the matters
submitted to them; or that the award is indefinite or cannot be performed.

Sec. 389. The court may, on motion, modify or correct the award
where it appears:
1. That there was a miscalculation in figures upon which it was made,
or that there is a mistake in the description of some person or property
therein.
*
2. When a part of the award is upon matters not submitted, which part
can be separated from other parts, and does not affect the decision on the
matter submitted.
3. When the award, though imperfect in form, could have been amended
if it had been a verdict or the imperfection disregarded.

Sec. 390. The decisions upon the motion shall be subject to ap
peal in the same manner as an order which is subject to appeal in a civil
action; but the judgment entered before a motion is made shall not be sub
ject to appeal.

Sec. 391. If a submission to arbitration be revoked, and an action
be brought therefore, the amount to be recovered shall only be the costs and
damages sustained in preparing for and attending the arbitration.
Offer of the Defendant to compromise the whole or a part of an Action.

Sec. 392. The defendant may, at any time before the trial or
judgment, serve upon the plaintifff an offer to allow judgment to be taken
against him for the sum or property, or to the effect therein specified. If
the plaintifff accept the offer and give notice thereof, within five days, he
may file the summons, complaint and offer, with an affidavit of notice of
acceptance, and the clerk shall thereupon enter judgment accordingly. If
the notice of acceptance be not given, the offer shall be deemed withdrawn,
and shall not be given in evidence; and if the plaintifff fail to obtain a more
favorable judgment, he shall not recover costs, but shall pay the defend
ant's costs from the time of the offer.
Of Witnesses, and of the manner of Obtaining Evidence of Witnesses.

Sec. 393. All persons, without, exception, otherwise than as
specified in this chapter, may be witnesses in any action or proceeding.

Sec. 394. No person offered as a witness shall be excluded by
reason of his interest in the event of the action or proceeding; nor on ac
count of opinions on matters of religious belief.

Sec. 395. The examination of the parties to any action, or per
sons for whose immediate benefit the action is prosecuted or defended, shall
be taken as provided in sections four hundred and twenty and four hundred
and twenty-four of this chapter.

Sec. 396. The following persons shall not be witnesses:
1. Those who are of unsound mind at the time of their production for
examination.
2. Children under ten years of age, who appear incapable of receiving
just impressions of the facts respecting which they are examined, or of re
lating them truly; and,
3. Indians or persons having one-half or more of Indian blood, in an
action or proceeding to which a white person is a party.
4. Negroes or persons having one-half or more negro blood, in an action
or proceeding to which a white person is a party.

Sec. 397. A husband shall not be a witness for or against his
wife, nor a wife a witness for or against her husband; nor can either, dur
ing the marriage or afterward, be, without the consent of the other, exam
ined as to any communication made by one to the other during the mar
riage. But this exception shall not apply to an action or proceeding by
one against the other.

Sec. 398. An attorney or counselor shall not, without the consent
of his client, be examined as a witness as to any communication made by
the client to him, or his advice given thereon, in the course of professional
employment.

Sec. 399. A clergyman or priest shall not, without the consent of
the person making the confession, be examined as a witness as to any con
fession made to him in his professional character, in the course or disci
pline enjoined by the church to which he belongs.

Sec. 400. A licensed physician or surgeon shall not, without the
consent of his patient, be examined as a witness as to any information
acquired in attending the patient which was necessary to enable him to pre
scribe or act for the patient.

Sec 401. A public officer shall not be examined as a witness as
to communications made to him in official confidence, when the public in
terest would suffer by the disclosure.

Sec 402. The judge himself, or any juror, may be called as a wit
ness by either party; but in such case it shall be in the discretion of the
court or judge to order the trial to be postponed or suspended, and to take
place before another judge or jury.

Sec 403. When a witness does not understand and speak the
English language, an interpreter shall be sworn to interpret for him.
Manner of Compelling the Attendance of Witnesses, and their Rights and
Duties.

Sec 404. A subpoena may require not only the personal attend
ance of the person to whom it is directed at a particular time and place, to
testify as a witness, but may also require him to bring with him any books,
documents or other things under his control. No witness shall be required
to attend before any court, judge, justice or other officer, out of the county
in which he resides.

Sec 405. The subpoena shall be issued as follows:
1. To require attendance before a court, or at the trial of an issue there
in, it shall be issued in the name and under the seal of the court before
which the attendance is required, or in which the issue is pending;
2. To require attendance out of court before a judge, justice or other
officer authorized to administer oaths or take testimony in any matter,
under the laws of this Territory, it shall be issued by the judge, justice or
other officer before whom the attendance is required;
3. To require attendance before a commissioner appointed to take testi
mony by a court of any other State or country, it may be issued by any
judge or justice of the peace, in places within their respective jurisdic
tions.

Sec 406. The service of a subpoena shall be made by showing the
original, and delivering a copy, or a ticket containing its substance, to the
witness personally, giving or offering to him at the same time, if demanded
by him, -the fees to which he is entitled for travel to and from the place
designated, and one day's attendance there. Such service may be made
by any person.

Sec 407. If a witness be concealed in a building or vessel, so as
to prevent the service of a subpoena upon him, any court or judge, or any
officer issuing the subpoena, may, upon proof by affidavit of the conceal
ment and of the materiality of the witness, make an order that the sheriff
of the county serve the subpoena; and the sheriff shall serve it accordingly,
and for that purpose may break into the building or vessel where the wit
ness is concealed.

Src. 408. A person present in court, or before a judicial officer,
may be required to testify in the same manner as if he were in attendance
upon a subpoena issued by such court or officer.

Sec. 409. It shall be the duty of a witness duly served with a
subpoena to attend at the time appointed, with any papers under his con
trol required by the subpoena, to answer all pertinent and legal questions,
and, unless sooner discharged, to remain till the testimony is closed.

Sec. 410. A witness shall answer questions legal and pertinent to
the matter in issue, though his answer may establish a claim against him
self; but he need not give an answer which will have a tendency to subject
him to punishment for a felony, nor need give an answer which will have
a direct tendency to degrade his character, unless it be to the very fact in
issue or to a fact from which the fact at issue would be presumed. But a
witness shall answer as to the fact of his previous conviction for felony.

Sec. 411. Disobedience to a subpoena, or a refusal to be sworn,
or to answer as a witness, or to subscribe an affidavit or deposition when
required, may be punished as a contempt by the court or officer issuing the
subpoena or requiring the witness, to be sworn; and if the witness be a
party, his complaint may be dismissed or his answer stricken out.

Sec. 412. A witness disobeying a subpoena shall also forfeit to the
party aggrieved the sum of one hundred dollars and all damages which he
may sustain by the failure of the witness to attend, which forfeiture and
damages may be recovered in a civil action.

Sec. 413. In case of failure of a witness to attend, the court or
officer issuing the subpoena, upon proof of the service thereof and of the
failure of the witness, may issue a warrant to the sheriff of the county to
arrest the witness and b'ring him before the court or officer where his at
tendance was required.

Sec. 414. If the witness be a prisoner confined in a jail or prison
within this Territory for any other cause than a sentence for felony, an
order for his examination in the prison upon deposition, or for his tem
porary removal and production before a court or officer for the purpose of
being orally examined, may be made as follows:
1. By the court itself in which the action or special proceeding is
pending.
2. By a judge of the supreme court or district court where the action or
proceeding is pending, if before a judge or other person out of court.

Sec. 415. Such order can only be made upon affidavit showing
the nature of the action or proceeding, the testimony expected from the
witness, and its materiality.

Sec. 416. If the witness be imprisoned in the county where the
action or proceeding is pending, and for a cause other than a sentence for
felony, his production may be required. In all other cases his examina
tion, when allowed, shall be taken upon deposition.

Sec. 417. Every person who has been, in good faith, served with
a subpoena to attend as a witness before a court, judge, commissioner,
referee, or other person, in a case where the disobedience of the witness
may be punished as a contempt, shall be exonerated from arrest in a civil
action while going to the place of attendance, necessarily remaining there,
and returning therefrom.

Sec. 418. The arrest of a witness contrary to the last section shall
be void, but an officer shall not be liable to the party for making the arrest
in ignorance of the facts creating the exoneration, but shall be liable for
any subsequent detention of the party, if such party claim the exemption
and make an affidavit stating:
1. That he has been served with a subpoena to attend as a witness before
a court, officer, or other person, specifying the same, the place of attend
ance, and the action or proceeding in which the subpoena was issued; and,
2. That he has not been thus served by his own procurement, with the
intention of avoiding an arrest;
3. That he is, at the time, going to the place of attendance or returning
therefrom, or remaining there in obedience to the subpoena. The affidavit
may be taken by the officer, and shall exonerate him from liability for dis
charging the witness when arrested.
,
Of the Examination of Parties to an Action or Proceeding, and of Persons
for whose immediate Benefit such Action or Proceeding is Prosecuted or
Defended.

Sec. 419. No action to obtain a discovery, under oath, in aid of
the prosecution or defense of another action or proceeding shall be allowed;
nor shall any examination of a party be had on behalf of the adverse party,
except in the manner prescribed by this chapter.

Sec. 420. A party to an action or special proceeding in any and
all courts, and before any and all tribunals, and before any and all officers
acting judicially, may be examined as a witness on his own behalf or in be
half of any other party in the same manner, and subject to the same rules
of examination, as any other witness; provided, however, that the assignor
of a thing in action shall not be examined in behalf of said party—nor
shall a party to an action be examined in his own behalf in respect to any
transaction or communication had personally by said assignor, or said
party, respectively, with a deceased person against parties who are the exe
cutors, administrators, devisees, heirs at law, next of kin or assignees of
such deceased person, when they have acquired title to the cause of action
immediately from said deceased person, or have been sued as such by the
executors, administrators, devisees, heirs at law, next of kin or assignees.
But when such executors, administrators, devisees, heirs at law, next of
kin or assignees shall be examined on their own behalf in regard to any
conversation or transaction had between the deceased person and assignor,
or said party, respectively, then the said assignor or the said party may be
examined in regard to such conversation or transaction, but not in regard
to any new matter. But if the testimony of a party to the action or pro
ceedings has been taken, and he shall afterward die, and after his death the testimony so taken shall be used upon any trial or hearing in the behalf
of his executors, administrators, devisees, heirs at law, next of kin or as
signees, the other party or the assignor of a thing in action shall be a com
petent witness as to any and all matters to which the testimony so taken
relates, notwithstanding any thing in this section contained to the contrary
thereof.*

Sec. 421. The examination of a party thus taken may be rebutted
by adverse testimony.

Sec. 422. If a party refuse to attend and testify at the trial, or
to give his deposition before trial, or upon a commission, when required, his
complaint, answer or reply may be stricken out and judgment be taken
against him; and he may also, in the discretion of the court, be proceeded
against as in other cases for a contempt.

Sec. 423. A party examined by an adverse party, as in this chap
ter provided, may be examined on his own behalf in respect to any matter
pertinent to the issue. But if he testify to any new matter not responsive
to the inquiries put to him by the adverse party, or necessary to explain or
qualify his answer thereto, or to discharge, when his answer would charge
himself, such adverse party may offer himself as a witness on his own be
half m respect to such new matter, and shall be so received.

Sec. 424. A person for whose immediate benefit the action is
prosecuted or defended, though not a party to the action, may be examined
as a witness in the same manner, and subject to the same rules of examina
tion, as other witnesses.

Sec. 425. A party may be examined on the part of his co-plain
tiff or a co-defendant.
Of Affidavits.

Sec. 426. An affidavit to be used before any court, judge, board
or officer of this Territory, may be taken before any judge or clerk of any
court, or any justice of the peace or notary public in this Territory.

Sec. 427. An affidavit taken in another State or Territory, to be
used in this Territory, shall be taken before a commissioner appointed by
the governor of this Territory, to take affidavits and depositions in such
State or Territory, or before any judge or notary public, or clerk of a court
having a seal.f

Sec. 428. An affidavit taken in a foreign country, to be used in
this Territory, shall be taken before an ambassador, minister or consul of
the United States; or before any judge of a court of record having a seal
in such foreign country.

Sec. 429. When an affidavit is taken before the judge of a court
in another State or Territory, or in a foreign country, the genuineness of
the signature of the judge, the existence of the court, and the fact that
* As amended by act of 1867.
t An amended by act of 1873.
such judge is a member thereof, shall be certified by the clerk of the court
under the seal thereof. *
Of Depositions taken in this Territory.

Sec. 430. The testimony of a witness in this Territory may be
taken by deposition in an action at any time after the service of the sum
mons or the appearance of the defendant; and in a special proceeding after
a question of fact has arisen therein, in the following cases:
1st. When the witness is a party to the action or proceeding, or a person
for whose immediate benefit the action or proceeding is prosecuted or de
fended;
2d. When the witness resides out of the county in which his testimony is
to be used, or more than fifty miles from the place of trial;
3d. When the witness is about to leave the county where the action is to
be tried, and will probably continue absent when the testimony is required;
4th. When the witness otherwise liable to attend the trial is, neverthe
less, too infirm to attend.

Sec. 431. Either party may have the deposition taken of a wit
ness in thi$ Territory before any judge or clerk, or any justice of the peace
or notary public in this Territory, on serving upon the adverse party pre
vious notice of the time and place of examination, together with a copy of
an affidavit showing that the case is one mentioned in the last section.
Such notice shall be at least five days and in addition one day for every
twenty-five miles of the distance to the place of examination from the resi
dence of the person to whom the notice is given, unless for a cause shown
a judge, by order, prescribe a shorter time. When a shorter time is pre
scribed a copy of that order shall be served with the notice.

Sec. 432. Either party may attend such examination and put
such questions, direct and cross, as may be proper. The deposition when
completed shall be carefully read to the witness and corrected by him iu
any particular if desired; it shall then be subscribed by the witness, certi
fied by the judge or officer taking the deposition, inclosed in an envelope
or wrapper, sealed and directed to the clerk of the court in which the ac
tion is pending, or to such person as the parties in writing may agree upon,
and either delivered by the judge or officer to the clerk or such person, or
transmitted through the mail or by some safe private opportunity; and there
upon such deposition may be used by either party upon the trial or other
proceeding, against any party giving or receiving the notice, subject to all
legal exceptions. But if the parties attend at the examination no objection
to the form of an interrogatory shall be made at the trial, unless the same
was stated at the time of the examination. If the deposition be taken by
reason of the absence or intended absence from the county of the witness,
or because he is too infirm to attend, proof by affidavit or oral testimony
shall be made at the trial that the witness continues absent or infirm to the
*Aa amended by act of 1873.
best of the deponent's knowledge or belief. The deposition thus taken
may be also read in case of the death of the witness.

Sec;. 433. When a deposition has been once taken it may be read
in any stage of the same action or proceeding by either party, and shall
then be deemed the evidence of the party reading it.
Of Depositions taken out of this Territory.

Sec. 434. The testimony of a witness out of the Territory may
be taken by deposition in an action at any time after the service of the
summons or the appearance of the defendant; and in a special proceeding
at any time after a question of fact has arisen therein.

Sec. 435. The deposition of a witness out of this Territory shall
be taken upon commission issued from the court under the seal of the
court, upon an order from the judge or court, on the application of either
party upon five days' previous notice to the other. It shall be issued to a
person agreed upon by the parties, or, if they do not agree, to any judge
or justice of the peace selected by the officer granting the commission, or
to a commissioner appointed by the governor of this Territory to take affi
davits and depositions in other states.

Sec. 436. Such proper interrogatories, direct and cross, as the re
spective parties may prepare, to be settled, if the parties disagree as to their
form, by the judge or officer granting the order for the commission, at a
day fixed in the order, may be annexed to the commission; or when the
parties agree to that mode the examination may be without written inter
rogatories.

Sec. 437. The commission shall authorize the commissioner to
administer an oath to the witness, and to take his deposition in answer to
the interrogatories, or, when the examination is to be without interroga
tories, in respect to the question in dispute; and to certify the deposition to
the court, in a sealed envelope directed to the clerk or other person desig
nated or agreed upon, and forwarded to him by mail or other usual channel
of conveyance.

Sec. 438. A trial or other proceeding shall not be postponed by
reason of a commission not returned, except upon evidence satisfactory to
the court that the testimony of the witness is necessary, and that proper
diligence has been used to obtain it.
Of Proceedings to Perpetuate Testimony.

Sec. 439. The testimony of a witness may be taken and perpetu
ated as provided in this chapter.

Sec. 440. The applicant shall produce to a district judge, or to a
judge of probate, an affidavit, stating:
1. That the applicant expects to be a party to an action in a court of this
Territory;
2. That the testimony of a witness residing in this Territory, whose place of residence is stated, is necessary to the prosecution or defense of such
action; and, generally, the facts expected to be proved;
3. The judge may thereupon, in his discretion, make an order allowing
the examination, and prescribing how long before the examination the
order and notice of the time and place thereof shall be served.

Sec. 441. Upon proof of personal service upon the person who is
expected to be the adverse party of the order, copy of the affidavit, and of
a notice that the examination will be taken before a district judge or
notary public of the county wherein the witness resides, or may be at a spe
cified time and place; such judge or notary may take the deposition of the
witness, and the examination may, if necessary, be adjourned from time to
time.

Sec. 442. The examination shall be by question and answer, un
less the parties otherwise agree. The deposition, when completed, shall be
carefully read to and subscribed by the witness, then certified by the judge,
and immediately thereafter filed and recorded in the office of the clerk of
the county where it was taken, together with the order for the examination
of the witness, the affidavit on which the same was granted, and the affi
davit of service of the affidavit, order or notice.

Sec. 443. The affidavits filed with the deposition, or a certified
copy thereof, shall be primary evidence of the facts stated therein, to show
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.

Sec. 444. If a trial be had between the persons named in the affi
davit as parties expectant, or their successors in interest, upon proof of the
death or insanity of the witness, or of his inability to attend the trial by
reason of age, sickness or settled infirmity, the deposition, or a certified
copy thereof, may be used by either party, subject to all legal objections.
But, if the parties attend' at the examination, no objection to the form of
an interrogatory shall be made at the trial, unless the same was stated at
the time of the examination.
Administration of Oaths and Affirmations.

Sec. 445. Every court of this Territory, every judge or clerk of
any court, every justice of the peace, and every notary public, and every
officer authorized to take testimony or to decide upon evidence in any pro
ceeding, shall have power to administer oaths or affirmations.

Sec. 446. When a person is sworn who believes in any other than
the Christian religion, he may be sworn according to the peculiar ceremo
nies of his religion, if there be any such.

Sec. 447. Any witness who desires it may, at his option, instead
of taking an oath, make his solemn affirmation or declaration, by assenting,
when addressed, in the following form: " You do solemnly affirm, that the
evidence you shall give in this issue (or matter) pending between
and
, shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth."
Assent to this affirmation shall be made by the answer: "I do." A false
affirmation or declaration shall be deemed perjury equally with a false oath.

Sec. 448. Any court in which an action is pending, or a judge
thereof, may, upon notice, order either party to give to the other within a
specified time an inspection and copy, or permission to take a copy, of any
book, document or paper in his possession or under his control, containing
evidence relating to the merits of the action, or the defense therein. If
compliance with the order be refused, the court may exclude the book,
document or paper from being given in evidence; or, if wanted as evidence
by the party applying, may direct the jury to presume it to be such as he
alleges it to be; and the court may also punish the party refusing for a con
tempt. This section shall not be construed to prevent a party from com
pelling another to produce books, papers or documents when he is exam
ined as a witness.

Sec. 449. There shall be no evidence of the contents of a writing
other than the writing itself, except in the following cases:
1. When the original has been lost or destroyed; in which case proof of
the loss or destruction shall first be made.
2. When the original is in the possession of the party against whom the
evidence is offered, and he fails to produce it after reasonable notice.
3. When the original is a record or other document in custody of a pub
lic office.
4. When the original has been recorded, and a certified copy of the
record is made evidence by statute.
5. When the original consists of numerous accounts or other documents,
which cannot be examined in court without great loss of time, and the evi
dence sought from them is only the general result of the whole.

Sec. 450. The party producing a writing as genuine, which has
been altered, or appears to have been altered, after its execution, in a part
material to the question in dispute, and such alteration is not noted on the
writing, shall account for the appearance or alteration. He may show that
the alteration was made by another, without his concurrence, or was made
with the consent of the parties affected by it, or otherwise properly or inno
cently made. If he do that, he may give the writing in evidence, but not
otherwise.

4Bec. 451. A judicial record of this Territory or of the United
States may be proved by the production of the original, or a copy thereof,
certified by the clerk or other person having the legal custody thereof,
under the seal of the court, to be a true copy of such record; and copies of
all papers, entries, documents and records required by law to be filed by
any public officer of this Territory or of the United States, in his office, or
to be entered or recorded therein, and duly filed, entered or recorded ac
cording to law, certified by such officer to be a true transcript compared by
him with the original in his office, shall be evidence in all courts and pro
ceedings, in like manner as the original would be if produced.

Sec. 452. A judicial record of any state or Territory may be
proved by the production of a copy thereof, certified by the clerk or legal
keeper of the record, under the seal of the court, to be a true copy of such
record, together with the certificate of a judge of the court that the person
making the certificate is the clerk of the court, or legal keeper of the
record, and in either case that the signature is genuine, and the certificate
in due form.

Sec. 453. A judicial record of a foreign country may be proved
by the production of a copy thereof, certified by the clerk, with the seal of
the court annexed, if there be a clerk and seal; or by the legal keeper of
the record with the seal of his office annexed, if there be a seal, to be a
true copy of such record; together with a certificate of a judge of the court
that the person making the certificate is the clerk of the court, or the legal
keeper of the record, and, in either case, that the signature is genuine, and
the certificate in due form; and also, together with the certificate of the
minister or ambassador of the United States, or of a consul of the United
States, in such foreign country, that there is such a court, specifying gen
erally the nature of its jurisdiction, and verifying the signature of the
judge and clerk, or oiher legal keeper of the record.

Sec. 454. A copy of the judicial record of a foreign country shall
also be admissible in evidence upon proof:
1. That the copy offered has been compared by the witness with the
original, and is an exact transcript of the whole of it.
2. That such original was in the custody of the clerk of the court, or
other legal keeper of the same; and,
3. That the copy is duly attested by a seal, which is proved to be the
seal of the court where the record remains, if it be the record of a court:
or if there be no such seal, or if it be not a record of a court, by the signa
ture of the legal keeper of the original.

Sec. 455. Printed copies in volumes of statutes, code or other
written law, enacted by any other State or Territory, or foreign govern
ment, purporting or proved to have been published by the authority
thereof, or proved to be commonly admitted as evidence of the existing
law in the courts and judicial tribunals of such State, Territory or govern
ment, shall be admitted by the courts and officers of this Territory, on all
occasions, as presumptive evidence of such law.

Sec. 456. A seal of a court or public office, when required to any
writ or process, or proceeding, or to authenticate a copy of any record or
document, may be impressed with wax, wafer or any other substance, and
then attached to the writ, process or proceeding, or to the copy of the
record or document, or it may be impressed on the paper alone.
Of the Writ of Certiorari, and of Mandamus. — Of the Writ of Certiorari.
or Review.

Sec. 457. The writ of certiorari may be denominated the writ of
review.

Sec 458. This writ may be granted on application by the
supreme and district courts of this Territory; the writ shall be granted in
all cases when an inferior tribunal, board or officer, exercising judicial
functions, has exceeded the jurisdiction of such tribunal, board or officer;
and there is no appeal, nor, in the judgment of the court, any plain, speedy
and adequate remedy.

Sec 459. The application shall be made on affidavit by the party
beneficially interested, and the court may require a notice of the applica
tion to be given to the adverse party, or may grant an order to show canse
why it should not be allowed, or may grant the writ without notice.

Sec 460. 'I he writ may be directed to the inferior tribunal, board
or officer, or to any other person having the custody of the record or pro
ceedings to be certified. When directed to a tribunal, the clerk, if there
be one, shall return the writ with the transcript required.

Sec 461. The writ of review shall command the party to whom
it is directed to certify fully to the court issuing the writ, at a specified
time and place, and annex to the writ a transcript of the record and pro
ceedings (describing or referring to them, with convenient certainty), that
the same may be reviewed by the court; and requiring the party in the
meantime to desist from further proceedings in the matter to be reviewed.

Sec 462. If a stay of proceedings be not intended, the words re
quiring the stay shall be omitted from the writ; these words may be in
serted or omitted in the sound discretion of the court; but if omitted, the
power of the inferior court or officer shall not be suspended, nor the pro
ceedings stayed.

Sec 463. The writ shall be served in the same manner as a sum
mons in civil action, except when otherwise expressly directed by the court.

Sec. 464. The review upon this writ shall not be extended fur
ther than to determine whether the inferior tribunal, board or officer has
regularly pursued the authority of such tribunal, board or officer.

Sec 465. If the return to the writ be defective, the court may
order a further return to be made. When a full return has been made, the
court shall proceed to hear the parties, or such of them as may attend for
that purpose, and may thereupon give judgment, either affirming or annuling, or modifying the proceedings below.

Sec 466. A copy of the judgment, signed by the clerk, shall be
transmitted to the inferior tribunal, board or officer having the custody of
the record or proceeding certified up.

Sec 467. A copy of the judgment, signed by the clerk, entered
upon or attached to, the writ and return, shall constitute the judgment
roll. If the proceeding be had in any other than the supreme court, an
appeal maybe taken from the judgment in the same manner, and upon the
same terms, as from a judgment in a civil action.
The Writ of Mandate, or Mandamus.

Sec 468. The writ of mandamus may be denominated the writ of
mandate.

Sec 469. It may be issued by the supreme or district court to
any inferior tribunal, corporation, board or person, to compel the perform
ance of an act which the law specially enjoins as a duty resulting from au
office, trust or station; or to compel the admission of a party to the use
and enjoyment of a right or office to which he is entitled, and from which
he is unlawfully precluded by such inferior tribunal, corporation, board or
person.

Sec. 470. This writ shall be issued in all cases where there is not
a plain, speedy and adequate remedy in the ordinary course of law. It
shall be issued upon affidavit, on the application of the party beneficially
interested.

Sec. 471. The writ shall be either alternative or peremptory; the
alternative writ shall state generally the allegation against the party to
whom it is directed, and command such party, immediately after the re
ceipt of the writ, or at some other specified time, to do the act required to
be performed, or to show cause before the court, at a specified time and
place, why he has not done so. The peremptory writ shall be in a similar
form, except that the words requiring the party to show cause why he has
not done as commanded shall be omitted, and a return day shall be inserted.

Sec. 472. When the application to the court is made without
notice to the adverse party, and the writ be allowed, the alternative shall
be first issued; but if the application be upon due notice, and the writ be
allowed, the peremptory may be issued in the first instance. The notice of
the application, when given, shall be at least ten days. The writ shall not
be granted by default. The case shall be heard by the court, whether the
adverse party appear or not.

Sec. 473. On the return day of the alternative, or the day on
which the application of the writ is noticed, or such further day as the court
may allow, the party on whom the writ or notice shall have been served may
show cause by answer under oath, made in the same manner as an answer to
a complaint in a civil action.

Sec. 474. If an answer be made which raises a question as to a
matter of fact essential to the determination of the motion and affecting the
substantial rights of the parties, and upon the supposed truth of the allega
tion of which the application for the writ is based, the court may. in its
discretion, order the question to be tried before a jury, and postpone the
argument until such trial can be had and the verdict certified to the court.
The question to be tried shall be distinctly stated in the order for trial, and
the county shall be designated in which the same shall be had. The order
may also direct the jury to assess any damages which the applicant may
have sustained in case they find for him.

Sec 475. On the trial the applicant shall not be precluded by
the answer of any valid objection to its sufficiency, and may countervail i'
by proof either in direct denial or by way of avoidance.

Sec 476. If either party be dissatisfied with the verdict of the
jury, he may move for a new trial upon a statement prepared as provided in section one hundred and ninety-five. The motion for a now trial may,
upon reasonable notice, be brought on before the judge of the court in
which the cause was tried, either in term or vacation. If a new trial be
granted, the jury shall, within five days thereafter, unless the parties agree
on a longer time, be summoned to try the issue. After a second verdict in
favor of the same party a new trial shall not be had.

Sec 477. If no notice for a new trial be given, or if given be de
nied, the clerk, within five days after the rendition of the verdict or denial
of the motion, shall transmit to the court in which the application for the
writ is pending a certified copy of the vurdict attached to the order of trial;
after which either party may bring on the argument of the application upon
reasonable notice to the adverse party.

Sec. 478. If no answer be made, the case shall be heard on the
papers of the applicant. If an answer be made which does not raise a ques
tion such as is mentioned in section four hundred and seventy-four, but
only such matters as may be explained or avoided by a reply, the court
may, in its discretion, grant time for replying. If the answer, or answer
and reply, raise only questions of law, or put in issue immaterial state
ments not affecting the substantial rights of the parties, the court shall pro
ceed to hear, or fix a day for hearing, the argument of the case.

Sec 479. If judgment be given for the applicant, he shall re
cover the damages which he shall have sustained as found by the jury, or
as may be determined by the court or referees upon a reference to be or
dered, together with costs; and for such damages and costs an execution
may issue; and a peremptory mandate shall also be awarded without delay.

Sec 480. The writ shall be served in the same manner as a sum
mons in a civil action, except when otherwise expressly directed by order of
the court.

Sec 481. When a peremptory mandate has been issued and di
rected to any inferior tribunal, corporation, board or person, if it appear to
the court that any member of such tribunal, corporation or board, or such
person upon whom the writ has been personally served, has, without just
excuse, refused or neglected to obey the same, the court may, upon motion,
impose a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars. In case of persistence in
a refusal of obedience, the court may order the party to be imprisoned for
a period not exceeding three months, and may take any orders necessary
and proper for the complete enforcement of the writ. If a fine be imposed
upon a judge or officer who draws a salary from the Territory or county, a
certified copy of the order shall be forwarded to the Territorial or county
treasurer, as the case may be, and the amount thereof may be retained from
the salary of such judge or officer. Such judge or officer, for his willful
disobedience, shall also be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor in office.
Of Contempts and their Punishments.

Sec 482. The following acts or omissions shall be deemed con
tempts:
1. Disorderly, contemptuous or insolent behavior toward the judge while
holding court, or engaged in his judicial duties at chambers, or toward
referees or arbitrators while sitting on a reference or arbitration, tending to
interrupt the due course of a trial, reference or arbitration, or other judi
cial proceeding.
2. A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct, or violent disturbance in
presence of the court or its immediate vicinity, tending to interrupt the due
course of a trial or other judicial proceeding.
3. Disobedience or resistance to any lawful writ, order, rule or process
issued by the court or judge at chambers.
4. Disobedience of a subpoena duly served, or refusing to be sworn or an
swer as a witness.
5. Rescuing any person or property in the custody of any officer by vir
tue of an order or process of such court or judge at chambers.

Sec. 483. When a contempt is committed in the immediate view
and presence of the court or judge at chambers, it may be punished sum
marily; for which an order shall be made reciting the facts as occurring in
such immediate view and presence, adjudging that the person proceeded
against is thereby guilty of a contempt, and that he be punished as therein
prescribed. When the contempt is not committed in the immediate view
and presence of the court or judge at chambers, an affidavit shall be pre
sented to the court or judge of the facts constituting the contempt, or a
statement of the facts by the referees or arbitrators.

Sec. 484. When the contempt is not committed in the immediate
view and presence of the court or judge, a warrant of attachment may be
issued to bring the person charged to answer, or, without a previous arrest,
a warrant of commitment may upon notice, or upon an order to show cause,
be granted; and no warrant of commitment shall be issued without such
previous attachment to answer, or such notice or order to show cause.

Sec. 485. Whenever a warrant of attachment is issued pursuant
to this chapter, the court or judge shall direct whether the person charged
may be let to bail for his appearance upon the warrant, or detained in
. custody without bail; and, if he may be bailed, the amount in which he
may be let to bail. The directions given in this respect shall be specified
in the warrant, or indorsed thereon.

Sec. 486. Upon executing the warrant of attachment, the sheriff
shall keep the person in custody, bring him before the court or judge, and
detain him until an order be made in the premises, unless the person
arrested entitle himself to be discharged, as provided in the next section.

Sec. 487. When a direction to let the person arrrested to bail is
contained in the warrant of attachment, or indorsed thereon, he shall be
discharged from the arrest, upon executing and delivering to the officer, at
any time before the return day of the warrant, a written undertaking, with
two sufficient sureties, to the effect that the person arrested will appear on
the return of the warrant, and abide the order of the court or judge there
upon; or they will pay, as may be directed, the sum specified in the war
rant.

Sec. 488. The officer shall return the warrant of arrest and the
undertaking, if any, received by him from the person arrested, by the return
day specified therein.

Sec. 489. When the person arrested has been brought up or ap
peared, the court or judge shall proceed to investigate the charge, and
shall hear any answer which the person arrested may make to the same, and
may examine witnesses for or against him, for which an adjournment may
be had, from time to time, if necessary.

Sec. 490. Upon the answer and evidence taken, the court or
judge shall determine whether the person proceeded against is guilty of the
contempt charged, and, if it be adjudged that he is guilty of the contempt,
a fine may be imposed on him not exceeding five hundred dollars, or he
may be imprisoned not exceeding five days, or both.

Sec. 491. When the contempt consists in the omission to perform
an act which it is yet in the power of the person to perform, he may be im
prisoned until he have performed it, and in that case the act shall be speci
fied in the warrant of commitment.

Sec. 492. Persons proceeded against according to the provisions
of this chapter shall also be liable to indictment for the same misconduct,
if it be an indictable offense; but the court before which a conviction is had
on the indictment, in passing sentence, shall take into consideration the
punishment before inflicted.

Sec. 493. When the warrant of arrest has been returned served,
if the person arrested do not appear on the return day, the court or judge
may issue another warrant of arrest, or may order the undertaking to be
prosecuted, or both. If the undertaking be prosecuted, the measure of
damages in the action shall be the extent of the loss or injury sustained by
the aggrieved party, by reason of the misconduct for which the warrant was
issued, and the costs of the proceedings.

Sec. 494. Whenever, by the provisions of this chapter, an officer
is required to keep a person arrested on a warrant of attachment in cus
tody, and to bring him before a court or judge, the inability from illness or
otherwise of the person to attend shall be a sufficient excuse for not bring
ing him up; and the officer shall not confine a person arrested upon the
warrant in a prison, or otherwise restrain him of personal liberty, except so
far as may be necessary to secure his personal attendance.

Sec. 495. The judgment and orders of the court or judge made
in cases of contempt shall be final and conclusive. The punishment shall
be by fine or by imprisonment, but no fine shall exceed the sum of five
hundred dollars, and no imprisonment shall exceed the period of five days,
except as provided in section four hundred and ninety-one.
Of Costs.

Sec. 496. The measure and mode of compensation of attorneys
and counselors shall be left to the agreement, express or implied, of the
parties. But there shall be allowed to the prevailing party in any action in the supreme court and district courts, certain sums by way of indemnity
for his expenses in the action, or special proceeding in the nature of an
action, which allowances are in this chapter termed costs.
*
Sec. 497. Costs shall be allowed, of course, to the plaintifff upon
a judgment in his favor, in the following cases:
1. In an action for the recovery of real property;
2. In an action to recover the possession of personal property, when the
value of the property amounts to one hundred dollars or over. Such value
shall be determined by the jury, court or referee by whom the action is
tried;
3. In an action for the recovery of money or damages where plaintifff re
covers one hundred dollars or over;
4. In a special proceeding in the nature of an action.

Sec. 498. When several actions are brought on one bond, under
taking, promissory note, bill of exchange or other instrument in writing,
or in any other case for the same cause of action, against several parties
who might have been joined as defendants in the same action, no costs
shall be allowed to the plaintifff in more than one of such actions, which
may be at his election, if the party proceeded against in the other actions
were at the commencement of the previous action openly within this Terri
tory; but the disbursements of the plaintifff shall be allowed to him in each
action.

Sec. 499. Costs shall be allowed of course to the defendant upon
a judgment in his favor in the actions mentioned in section 497, and in a
special proceeding in the nature of an action.

Sec. 500. In other actions than those mentioned in section 497,
costs may be allowed or not; and, if allowed, may be apportioned between
the parties, on the same or adverse sides, in the discretion of the court;
but no costs shall be allowed in an action for the recovery of money or
damages when the plaintifff recovers less than one hundred dollars, nor in
an action to recover the possession of personal property, when the value of
the property is less than one hundred dollars.

Sec. 501. When there are several defendants in the actions men
tioned in section 497, not united in interest, and making separate defenses
by separate answers, and the plaintifff fails to recover judgment against all,
the court shall award costs to such of the defendants as have judgment in
their favor.

Sec. 502. In the following cases the costs of an appeal shall be in
the discretion of the court:
1. When a new trial is ordered;
2. When a judgment is modified.

Sec. 503. No costs shall be allowed except such actual disburse
ments as the party recovering judgment in any action may by law have
been compelled to make.*

Sec. 504. In actions for the recovery of money or damages, or the
•As amended by act of 1866.
possession of personal property, or for the recovery of real property, the
plaintifff shall be entitled to the additional allowance of five per cent on the
first one thousand dollars and two per cent on all over that sum, upon the
amount of the verdict or the value of the property recovered; such value to
be determined at the trial or at the time the judgment is applied for, in
case no answer shall have been put in. In the actions specified in this sec
tion, the defendant, in case of judgment for the defendant, shall be entitled
to a similar percentage on the amount or the value of the property claimed
by the plaintifff. But such allowance shall in no case exceed five hundred
dollars; provided, that in any action or special proceeding in the nature of
an action, which may be dismissed or discontinued at the instance of either
party, no percentage shall be allowed as herein provided.

Sec. 505. When recovery is had upon failure of the defendant to
answer, the plaintifff shall be entitled to recover as follows:
1. In actions for the recovery of real property, and in actions in which
the taking of an account, or the examination of a long account, or the
proof of any fact, shall be necessary to enable the court to carry the judg
ment into effect, and a reference be ordered to take or examine the account
or determine the fact; and in actions in which a jury shall be called to de
termine a fact necessary to carry the judgment into effect, or to assess
damages, the same costs as in actions in which issues are joined.
2. Repealed by act of 1865.

Sec. 506. The fees of referees shall be five dollars to each for
every day spent in the business of the reference; but the parties may
agree in writing upon any other rate of compensation, and thereupon such
rate shall be allowed.

Sec. 507. When an application is made to a court or referee to
postpone a trial, the payment to the adverse party of a sum not exceeding
twenty dollars, besides the fees of witnesses, may be imposed as the condi
tion of granting the postponement.

Sec. 508. When in an action for the recovery of money, only, the
defendant alleges in his answer that before the commencement of the
action he tendered to the plaintifff the full amount to which he was entitled,
and thereupon deposits in court for the plaintifff the amount so tendered,
and the allegation be found to be true, the plaintifff shall not recover costs,
but shall pay costs to the defendant.

Sec. 509. In an action prosecuted or defended by an executor,
administrator, trustee of express trust, or a person expressly authorized by
statute, costs may be recovered as in action by and against a person prose
cuting or defending in his own right; but such costs shall by the judgment
be made chargeable only upon the estate, fund or party represented, unless
the court shall direct the same to be paid by the plaintifff or defendant per
sonally, for mismanagement or bad faith in the action or defense.

Sec 510. When the decision of a court of inferior jurisdiction
in a special proceeding is brought before a court of higher jurisdiction for
a review in any other way than by appeal, the same costs shall be allowed as in cases on appeal, and may be collected by execution or in such manner
as the court may direct, according to the nature of the case.
. fr. /
Sec. 511. On the commencement of an action, the plaintifff, and
(k yon the filing of notice of appeal from a final judgment, the appellant, shall
Qjjr A\ /pay to the clerk three dollars, to be applied toward the district law library,
I
lunder the order of the judge.

Sec 512. The party in whose favor judgment is rendered, and
who claims his costs, shall deliver to the clerk of the court a memorandum
of the items of the costs to which he is entitled. He may include in the
costs all the necessary disbursements in the action or proceeding, including
the fees of officers allowed by law, the fees of witnesses, the necessary ex
penses, taking depositions by commission or otherwise, the compensation of
referees, and the fees paid on the commencement of the action or on filing
the notice of appeal. The memorandum shall be accompanied by the affi
davit of the party that the items are correct, to the best of his knowledge
. and belief, and that the disbursements have been necessarily incurred in
the action. The memorandum and affidavit shall be delivered to the clerk
within three days after the rendition of the verdict.

Seo. 513. The clerk shall include in the judgment entered up by
him the costs, the percentage allowed, and any interest on the verdict from
the time it was rendered.

Sec. 514. When the plaintifff in an action resides out of the Ter
ritory, or is a foreign corporation, security for the costs and charges which
may be awarded against such plaintifff may be required by the defendant.
When required, all proceedings in the action shall be stayed until an un
dertaking, executed by two or more persons, be filed with the clerk, to the
effect that they will pay such costs and charges as may be awarded against
the plaintifff by judgment or in the progress of the action, not exceeding
the sum of three hundred dollars. A new or an additional undertaking
may be ordered by the court or judge upon proof that the original under
taking is insufficient security, and proceedings in the action stayed until
such new or additional undertaking be executed and filed.

Sec. 515. Each of the sureties on the undertaking mentioned in
the last section shall annex to the same an affidavit that he is a resident
and householder or freeholder within the county, and is worth double the
amount specified in the undertaking, over and above all his just debts and
liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution.

Sec. 516. After the lapse of thirty days from the service of notice
that security is required, or of an order for new or additional security,
upon proof thereof, and that no undertaking^ as required, has been filed.
the court or judge may order the action to be dismissed.
Of Motions, Orders, Notices, Service of Papers and Miscellaneous
Provisions.

Sec. 517. Every direction of a court or judge made or entered in
writing, and not included in a judgment, is denominated an order. An
application for an order is a motion.

Sec. 518. Motions shall be made in the county in which the ac
tion is brought, or inan adjoining comity in the same district.

Sec. 519. When a written notice of a motion is necessary, it shall
be given, if the court be held in the same district with both parties, five
days before 'the time appointed for the hearing; otherwise ten days, but the
court or judge may prescribe a shorter time.

Sec. 520. When a notice of a motion is given, or an order to
show cause is made returnable before a judge out of court, and, at the time
fixed for the motion, or on the return day of the order, the judge is unable
to hear the parties, the matter may be transferred, by his order, to some
other judge before whom it might originally have been brought.

Sec. 521. Written notices and other papers, when required to be
served on the party or attorney, shall be served in the maimer prescribed
in the next three sections, when not otherwise provided; but nothing in
this chapter shall be applicable to original or final process, or any proceed
ings to bring a party into contempt.

Sec 522. The service may be personal, or by delivery to the party
or attorney on whom the service is required to be made, or it may be as
follows:
1st. If upon an attorney, it may be made during his absence from his
office, by leaving the notice or other papers with his clerk therein, or with
a person having charge thereof; or, when there is no person in the office,
by leaving them, between the hours of eight in the morning and six in the
afternoon, in a conspicuous place in the office; or, if it be not open so as
to admit of such service, then by leaving them at the attorney's residence,
with some person of suitable age and discretion; and if his residence be not
known, then by putting the same, inclosed in an envelope, into the post
office, directed to such attorney.
2d. If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the notice or other paper
at his residence, between the hours of eight in the morning and six in the
evening, with some person of suitable age and discretion; and if his resi
dence be not known, by putting the same, inclosed in an envelope, into the
post office, directed to such party.

Sec. 523. Service by mail may be made where the person making
the service, and the person on whom it is to be made, reside in different
places, between which there is a regular communication by mail.

Sec. 524. In case of service by mail, the notice or other paper
shall be deposited in the post office, addressed to the person on whom it is
to be served, at his place of residence, and the postage paid. And in such
case, the time of service shall be increased one day for every twenty miles
distance between the place of the deposit and the place of the address.

Sec. 525. A defendant shall be deemed to appear in an action
when he answers, demurs, or gives the plaintifff written notice of his ap
pearance, or when an attorney gives notice of appearance for him. After
appearance, a defendant or his attorney shall be entitled to notice of all
subsequent proceedings of which notice is required to be given. But where a defendant has not appeared, service of notice or papers need not be made
upon him, unless he be imprisoned for want of bail.

Sec. 526. When a plaintifff or a defendant who has appeared
resides out of the Territory, and has no attorney in the action or proceed
ing, the service may be made on the clerk for him. But iu all cases where
a party has an attorney in the action or proceeding, the service of papers,
when required, shall be upon the attorney instead of the party, except of
subpoenas, of writs, and other process issued in the suit, and of papers to
bring him into contempt.

Sec. 527. Successive actions may be maintained upon the same
contract or transaction, whenever, after the former action, a new cause of
action arises therefrom.

Sec. 528. Whenever two or more actions are pending at one time
between the same parties and in the same court, upon causes of action
which might have been joined, the court may order the actions to be con
solidated into one.

Sec. 529. An action may be brought by one person against an
other, for the purpose of determining an adverse claim which the latter
makes against the former for money or property upon an alleged obliga
tion; and also against two or more persons, for the purpose of compelling
one to satisfy a debt due to the other, for which the plaintifff is bound as
security.

Sec. 530. The clerk shall keep among the records of the court a
register of actions. He shall enter therein the title of the action, with brief
notes under it, from time to time, of all papers filed and proceedings had
therein.

Sec. 531. When there are three referees or three arbitrators, all
shall meet, but two of them may do any act which might be done by all.

Sec. 532. The time within which an act is to be done, as pro
vided in this chapter, shall be computed by excluding the first day and in
cluding the last. If the last day be Sunday it shall be excluded.

Sec. 533. An affidavit, notice or other paper, without the title of
the action or proceeding in which it is made, or with a defective title, shall
be as valid and effectual for any purpose as if duly entitled, if it intelligibly
refer to such action or proceeding.

Sec. 534. When a cause of action has arisen in another State, or
in a foreign country, and by the laws thereof an action thereon cannot
there be maintained against a person by reason of the lapse of time, an
action thereon shall not be maintained against him in this Territory, ex
cept in favor of a citizen thereof, who has held the cause of action from
the time it accrued.
Of Proceedings in Civil Cases in Justices' Courts. — Of the Parties and
the Time and Place of commencing Action in Justices' Courts.

Sec. 535. The provisions of this chapter, as to parties to actions.
shall be applicable to actions of which a justices' court has jurisdiction.

Sec. 536. Parties in justices' courts may prosecute or defend in
person or by attorney; and any person, on the request of a party, may act as his attorney, except that the constable by whom the summons or jury
process was served shall not appear or act on the trial in behalf of either
party.

Sec. 537. No person shall be held to answer to any summons
issued against him from a justice's court, in civil action, in any precinct
other than the one in which he or the plaintifff shall reside, except in the
cases following:
1. When there shall be no justices' court for the precinct or village in
which the defendant or plaintifff may reside, or no justice competent to act
on the case.
2. When two or more persons shall be jointly, or jointly and severally,
bound in any debt or contract, or otherwise jointly liable in the same
action, and reside in different precincts of the same county, or in different
counties, the plaintifff may prosecute his action in a justices' court of the
precinct or county in which any of the debtors or other persons liable may
reside.
3. In cases of injury to the person, or to real or personal property, the
plaintifff may prosecute his action in the precinct where the injury was
committed or where the defendant may be found.
4. Where personal property, unjustly taken or detained, is claimed, or
damages therefore are claimed, the plaintifff may bring his action in any pre
cinct or county in which the property may be found, or in which the pro
perty was taken.
5. When the defendant is a non-resident of the county he may be sued
in any precinct, village or city wherein he may be found.
6. When a person has contracted to perform any obligation at a particu
lar place, and resides in another, he may be sued in the precinct in which
such obligation is to be performed or in which he resides.
7. When the foreclosure of a mortgage or the enforcement of a lien upon
personal property is sought by the action, the plaintifff may sue in the pre
cinct, village or city where the property is situated.

Sec. 538. Judgment, upon confession, may be entered up in any
justices' court in the Territory specified in the confession.
(V5975) Sec. 539. Justices' courts shall have jurisdiction of an action
upon the voluntary appearance of the parties, without summons, without
regard to their residences or the place where the cause of action arose, or
the subject-matter of the action may exist.
Summons, Arrest, Attachment and Claim of Personal Property.

Sec. 540. Actions in justices' courts shall be commenced by filing
a copy of the account, note, bill, bond or instrument upon which the action
is brought; or a concise statement in writing of the cause of action and the
issuance of a summons thereon, or by the voluntary appearance and plead
ings of the parties without summons. In the latter case the action shall be
deemed commenced at the time of appearance.

Sec. 541. When a guardian is necessary he shall be appointed by
the justice as follows:
1. If the infant be plaintifff, the appointment shall be made before the
summons is issued, upon the application of the infant, if he be of the age of
fourteen years or upward; if under that age, upon the application of some
relative or friend. The consent in writing of the guardian to be appointed,
and to be responsible for costs if he fail in the action, shall be first filed
with the justice.
2. If the infant be defendant, the guardian shall be appointed at the
time the summons is returned, or before the pleadings. It shall be the right
of the infant to nominate his own guardian if the infant be over fourteen
years of age, and the proposed guardian be present and consent in writing
to be appointed. Otherwise, the justice may appoint any suitable person
who gives such consent.

Sec. 542. The summons shall be addressed to the defendant by
name or, if his name be unknown, by a fictitious name; and shall summon
him to appear before the justice at his office (naming its precinct or village),
and at a time specified therein—to answer the complaint of the plaintifff, for
a cause of action therein described in general terms, sufficient to apprise the
defendant of the nature of the claim against him; and, in action for money
or damages, shall state the amount for which the plaintifff will take judg
ment, if the defendant fail to appear and answer. It shall be subscribed
by the justice before whom it is returnable.

Sec. 543'. The time mentioned in the summons for the appearance
of the defendant and the time of service shall be as follows:
1. Where the summons is accompanied by an order to arrest the defend
ant, it shall be returnable immediately.
2. When the defendant is not a resident of the county, or where the
plaintifff is not a resident and gives the security required by this chapter, it
shall be returnable not more than two days from its date, and shall be
served at least one day before the time for appearance.
3. In all other cases it shall" be returnable in not less than six nor more
than ten days from its date/and shall be served at least four days before the
time for appearance.

Sec. 544. The summons shall be served by the sheriff or a con
stable of the county as follows:
1. If the action be against a corporation, by the delivery of a copy to the
president or other head of the corporation, or to the secretary, cashier or
managing agent thereof; or when no such officer resides in the county, to
a director or stockholder resident therein;
2. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years, by delivery of a
copy to such minor, and also to his father, mother or guardian; or if there
be none within the county, then to any person having the care or control of
such minor, or with whom he resides, or in whose service he is;
3. If against a person judicially declared to be of unsound mind or in
capable of conducting his own affairs, and for whom a guardian has been
appointed, by delivery of a copy to such guardian;
4. In all other cases, by the delivery of the copy to the defendant per
sonally.

Sec 545. If the plaintifff annex to his complaint, or file with the
justice at the time of issuing the summons, a copy of the account or prom
issory note, bill of exchange or other obligation for the payment of money,
or for a specified amount of property at a valuation fixed therein, upon
which the action is brought, the defendant shall be deemed to admit such
account, note, bill or obligation, unless he specifically deny the same in his
answer, and verify the answer by his oath.

Sec. 546. An order to arrest the defendant may be endorsed on
a summons issued by the justice, and the defendant may be arrested
thereon by the sheriff or constable at the time of serving the summons and
brought before the justice, and there detained until duly discharged in the
following cases, arising after the passage of this chapter:
1. In an action for the recovery of money or damages on a cause of action
arising upon contract, express or implied; when the defendant is about to
depart from the Territory with intent to defraud his creditors; or where
the action is for a willful injury to the person, or for taking, detaining or
injuring personal property;
2. In an action for a fine or penalty, or for money or property embezzled
or fraudulently misapplied or converted to his own use by an attorney, fac
tor, broker, agent or clerk, in the course of his employment as such, or by
any other person in a fiduciary capacity;
3. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in contracting the
debt or incurring the obligation for which the action is brought;
4. When the defendant has removed, concealed or disposed of his proper
ty, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his creditors. But no fe
male shall be arrested in any action.

Sec. 547. Before an order for an arrest shall be made, the party
applying shall prove to the satisfaction of the justice, by the affidavit of
himself or some other person, the facts on which the application is founded.
The plaintifff shall also execute and deliver to the justice a written under
taking, with two or more sureties, to the effect that if the defendant recover
judgment, the plaintifff will pay to him all costs that may be awarded to
the defendant, and all damages which he may sustain by reason of the
arrest, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which shall be
at least two hundred dollars.

Sec. 548. The defendant, immediately upon being arrested, shall
be taken to the office of the justice who made the order, and if he be absent
or unable to try the action, or if it be made to appear to him by the affidavit
of defendant that he is a material witness in the action, the officer shall
immediately take the defendant before the nearest justice of the county,
who shall take cognizance of the action, and proceed thereon, as if the
summons had been issued and the order of arrest made by him.

Sec. 549. The officer making the arrest shall immediately give
notice thereof to the plaintifff or his attorney or agent, and indorse on the summons and subscribe a certificate, stating the time of serving the same,
the time of the arrest, and of his giving notice to the plaintifff.

Sec 550. The officer making an arrest shall keep the defendant
in custody until duly discharged by order of the justice.

Sec 551. The defendant under arrest, on his appearance with
the officer, may demand atrial immediately; and, upon such demand being
made, the trial shall not be delayed beyond three hours, except by the trial
of another action pending at the time; or ho may have an adjournment,
and be discharged, on giving bail, as provided in the next section. An ad
journment, at the request of the plaintifff, beyond three hours, shall dis
charge the defendant from arrest, but the action may proceed notwith
standing; and the defendant shall be subject to arrest on the execution in
the same manner as if he had not been so discharged.

Sec 552. If the defendant, on his appearance, demand an ad
journment, the same shall be granted, on condition that he execute and
file with the justice an undertaking, with two or more sufficient sureties,
to be approved by the justice, to the effect that he will render himself
amenable to the process of. the court during the pendency of the action,
and such as may be issued to enforce the judgment therein; or that the
sureties will pay to the plaintifff the amount of any judgment which he
may recover in the action. On filing the undertaking specified in this
section, the justice shall order the defendant to be discharged from enstody.

Sec 553. In an action upon a contract, express or implied, made
after the passage of this chapter for the direct payment of money, which
contract is made or is payable in this Territory, and is not secured by mort
gage upon real or personal property, the plaintifff, at the time of issuing
the summons, or at any time afterward, may have the property of the de
fendant attached as security for the satisfaction of any judgment that may
be recovered, unless the defendant give security to pay such judgment as
hereinafter provided.
•

Sec 554. A writ to attach the property of the defendant shall
be issued by the justice on receiving an affidavit, by or on behalf of the
plaintifff, showing that the defendant is indebted to the plaintifff (specifying
the amount of such indebtedness over and above all legal set-offs or counterclaims) upon a contract, express or implied, for the direct payment of
money, that such contract was made after the passage of this chapter, and
was made or is payable in this Territory, and that the payment of the
same has not been secured by any mortgage on real or personal property.

Sec 555. Before issuing the writ the justice shall require a
written undertaking on the part of the plaintifff, with two or more suffi
cient sureties, to the effect that, if the defendant recover judgment, the
plaintifff will pay all the costs that may be awarded to the defendant, and
all damages which he may sustain by reason of the attachment.

Sec 556. The writ may be directed to the sheriff, or any con
stable of the county, and shall require him to attach and safely keep all the property of the defendant within his county not exempt from execution, or so much thereof as may be sufficient to satisfy the plaintifff's de
mand, the amount of which shall be stated in conformity with the com
plaint, unless the defendant give him security by the undertaking of two
sufficient sureties, in an amount sufficient to satisfy such demand, besides
costs, in which case he take such undertaking and release such property.

Sec. 557. The sections of this chapter, from section one hundred
and twenty-four to section one hundred and forty-one, both inclusive, shall
be applicable to attachments issued in justices' courts, the word " consta
ble "being substituted for the word " sheriff " whenever the writ is di
rected to a constable, and the word "justice" being substituted for the
word "judge."

Sec. 558. The plaintifff, in an action to recover the possession of
persona] property, may, at the time of issuing the summons, or at any
time before answer, claim the delivery ol such property to him, as provided
in this chapter.

Sec. 559. When a delivery is claimed, an affidavit shall be made
by the plaintifff, or by some one in his behalf, showing:
1. That the plaintifff is the owner of the property claimed (particularly
describing it), or is lawfully entitled to the possession thereof.
2. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant.
3. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, according to his best
knowledge, information and belief.
4. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment or fine, pursu
ant to a statute; or seized under an execution, on an attachment against
the property of the plaintifff; or, if seized, that it is by statute exempt
from such seizure; and,
5. The actual value of the property, not exceeding one hundred dollars.

Sec. 560. The justice shall thereupon, by an indorsement in writ
ing upon the affidavit; order the sheriff or a constable of the county to take
the same from the defendant and deliver it to the plaintifff, upon receiving
the undertaking mentioned in the following section.

Sec. 561. Upon the receipt of the affidavit and order, with a written
undertaking, executed by two or more sufficient sureties, approved by the
officer, to the effect that they are bound in double, the value of the property
as stated in the affidavit, for the prosecution of the action, for the return
of the property to the defendant if return thereof be adjudged, and for the
payment to him of such sum as may, for any cause, be recovered against
the plaintifff, the officer shall forthwith take the property described in the
affidavit, if it be in the possession of the defendant or his agent, and retain
it in his custody. He shall also, without delay, serve on the defendant a
copy of the affidavit, order and undertaking, by delivering the same to him
personally, if ho can be found within the county, or to his agent, from
whose possession the property is taken, or, if neither can be found within
the county, by leaving them at the usual place of abode of either within the
county, with some person of suitable age and discretion, or, if neither have any known place of abode within the county, by putting them into the near
est post office, directed to the defendant.

Sec. 562. The defendant may, within two days after the service
of a copy of the affidavit and undertaking, give notice to the officer that he
excepts to the sufficiency of the sureties. If he fails to do so, he shall be
deemed to have waived all objection to them. When the defendant excepts,
the sureties shall justify on notice before the justice; and the officer shall
be responsible for the sufficiency of the sureties until the objection to them
is either waived, as above provided, or until they justify. If the defend
ant except to the sureties, he cannot reclaim the property as provided in
the next section.

Sec. 563. At any time before the delivery of the property to the
plaintifff, the defendant may, if he do not except to the sureties of the
plaintifff, require the return thereof, upon giving to the officer a written
undertaking, executed by two or more sufficient sureties, to the effect that
they are bound, in double the value of the property, as stated in the affi
davit of the plaintifff, for the delivery thereof to the plaintifff, if such deliv
ery be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as may, for any
cause, be recovered against the defendant. If a return of the property be
not so required within two days after the taking and service of notice to
the defendant, it shall be delivered to the plaintifff, except as provided in
this chapter.

Sec. 564. The defendant's sureties, upon reasonable notice to the
plaintifff, shall justify before the justice; and, upon such justification, the
officer shall deliver the property to the defendant. The officer shall be re
sponsible for the defendant's sureties until they justify, or until the justifi
cation is completed or expressly waived, and may retain the property until
that time; but if they, or others in their place, fail to justify at the time
appointed, he shall deliver the property to the plaintifff.

Sec. 565. If the property, or any part thereof, be concealed in a
building or enclosure, the officer shall publicly demand its delivery; and if
it be not delivered, he shall cause the building or enclosure to be broken
open, and take the property into his possession.

Sec. 566. When the officer shall have taken property, as in this
chapter provided, he shall keep it in a secure place, and deliver it to the
party entitled thereto, upon receiving his lawful fees for taking, and his
necessary expenses for keeping the same.

Sec. 567. If the property taken be claimed by any other person
than the defendant or his agent, and such person make affidavit of his title
thereto, or right to the possession thereof, stating the grounds of such title
or right, and serve the same upon the officer, the officer shall not be bound
to keep the property, or deliver it to the plaintifff, unless the plaintifff, on
demand of him or his agent, indemnify the officer against such claim by an
undertaking, executed bv two sufficient sureties, accompanied by their affi
davits, that they are each worth double the value of the property, as spe
cified in the affidavit of the plaintifff, over and above their debts and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution, and are freeholders or
householders of the county; and no claim to such property by any other
than the defendant or his a,gent shall be valid against the officer, unless so
made.

Sec. 568. The officer shall return the order and affidavit, with
his proceedings thereon, to the justice, within five days after taking the
property mentioned therein.

Sec. 569. The qualification of sureties on the several undertak
ings required by this chapter in justice's courts shall be as follows:
1st. Each of them shall be a resident and householder or freeholder
within the county.
2d. Each shall be worth double the amount stated in the undertaking,
over and above all his debts and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt
from execution.

Sec. 570. For the purpose of justification, each of the sureties
shall attend before the justice at the time mentioned in the notice, and may
be examined on oath, on the part of the adverse party, touching his suffi
ciency, in such manner as the justice, in his discretion, may think proper.
The examination shall be reduced to writing, and subscribed by the sureties
if required.

Sec. 571. If the justice find the sureties sufficient, he shall annex
the examination to the undertaking, indorse his allowance thereon, and
file the same, and the officer shall thereupon be exonerated from liability.
Pleadings and Trial.

Sec. 572. The pleadings in justices' courts shall be:
1. The complaint by the plaintifff, stating the cause of the action.
-2. The answer by the defendant, stating the ground of the defense.

Sec. 573. The pleadings shall be in writing, and verified by the
oath of the party, his agent or attorney, when the action is:
1. For the foreclosure of any mortgage, or the enforcement of any lien
on personal property.
2. For a forcible or unlawful entry upon, or a forcible or unlawful deten
tion of lands, tenements or other possessions.

Sec. 574. When the pleadings are oral, the substance of them
shall be entered by the justice in his docket; when in writing, they shall be
filed in his office, and a reference to them made in the docket. Pleadings
shall not be required to be in any particular form, but shall be such as to
enable a person of common understanding to know what is intended.

Sec. 575. The complaint shall state in a plain and direct manner
the facts constituting the cause of aetion.

Sec. 576. The answer may contain a denial of any of the mate
rial facts stated in the complaint, which the defendant believes to be un
true, and also a statement, in a plain and direct manner, of any other facts
constituting a defense, or a counterclaim upon which an action may be
brought by the defendant against the plaintifff in a justices' court.

Sec. 577. A statement in the ariswer that the party has not suffi
cient knowledge or information in respect to a particular allegation in the
previous pleading of the adverse party to form a belief shall be deemed
equivalent to a denial.

Sec. 578. When the cause of action or counterclaim arises upon
an account or instrument for the payment of money only, it shall be suffi
cient for the party to deliver a copy of the account or instrument to the
court, and to state that there is due to him thereupon, from the adverse
party, a specified sum, which he claims to recover or set off. The court
may, at the time of the pleading, require that the original account or in
strument be exhibited to the inspection of the adverse party, and a copy to
be furnished; or, if it be not so exhibited and a copy furnished, may pro
hibit its being afterward given in evidence.

Sec. 570. When the defendant answers the complaint, every ma
terial allegation therein, not denied by the answer, shall, on the trial, be
taken to be true.

Sec. 580. Either party may object to a pleading of his adversary,
or to any part thereof, that it is not sufficiently explicit to enable him to
understand it, or that it contains no cause of action or defense, although it
be taken as true. . If the court deem the objection well founded, it shall
order the pleading to be amended, and if the party refuse to amend, the
defective pleading shall be disregarded.

Sec. 581. A variance between the proof on the trial and the
allegations in a pleading shall be disregarded as immaterial, unless the
court be satisfied that the adverse party has been misled to his prejudice
thereby.

Sec. 582. The pleadings may be amended at any time before the
trial, to supply a deficiency or omission, when by such amendment substan
tial justice will be promoted. If the amendment be made after issue, and
it be made to appear to the satisfaction of the court, by oath, that an ad
journment is necessary to the adverse party in consequence of such amend
ment, an adjournment shall be granted. The court may also, in its discre
tion, require as a condition of an amendment the payment of costs to the
adverse party, to be fixed by the court, not exceeding twenty dollars; but
such payment shall 'not bo required unless an adjournment is made neces
sary by the amendment; nor shall an amendment be allowed after a wit
ness is sworn on the trial, when an adjournment thereby will be made
necessary.

Sec. 583. The parties shal not be at liberty to give evidence by
which the question of title to real property shall be raised on the trial be
fore a justice, and if it appear from the plaintifff's own showing on the trial,
or from the answer of the defendant, verified by his oath, or that of his
agent or attorney, that the determination of the action will necessarily in
volve the decision of a question of title to real property, the justice shall
suspend all further proceedings in the action and certify the pleadings; or
if the pleadings be oral, a transcript of the same from his docket to the
PROCEEDLNGS IN CIVIL OASES.
district court of the county; and from the time of filing such pleadings or
transcript with the district clerk, the district court shall have, over the
action, the same jurisdiction as if it were originally commenced therein;
provided, that when the pleadings or transcript are certified to the district
court upon the answer of the defendant, he shall file an undertaking, with
two or more sufficient sureties to be approved by the justice, to the effect
that they will pay all costs of the action if it be decided against him by the
district court.

Sec. 584. If at any time before the trial, it appear to the satisfac
tion of the justice before whom the action is brought, by affidavit of either
party, that such justice is a material witness for either party, or if either
party make affidavit that he has reason to believe, and does believe, that he
cannot have a fair and impartial trial before such justice, by reason of the
interest of the justice, the action shall be transferred to some other justice
of the same or neighboring precinct; and in case a jury be demanded, and
affidavit of either party is made that he cannot have a fair and impartial
trial on account of the bias or prejudice of the citizens of the precinct
against him, the action shall be transferred to some other justice of the
peace in the precinct, in the discretion of the justice. The justice to whom
an action may be transferred by the provisions of this section shall have
and exercise the same jurisdiction over the action as if it had been originally
commenced before him. The justice ordering the transfer of the action to
another justice shall immediately transmit to the latter, on payment of
costs, all the papers in the action, together with a certified transcript from
his docket of the proceedings therein.
Upon the return day of the summons, if a jury be required, or if the
justice be actually engaged in other official business, he may adjourn the
trial without the consent of either party, as follows:
1st. When a party who is not a resident of the county is in attendance,
the adjournment not to exceed twenty-four hours; when the defendant in
attendance is under arrest, the adjournment not to exceed three hours.
2d. In other cases not to exceed five days.

Sec. 585. The trial may be adjourned by consent, or upon applica
tion of either party, without the consent of the other, for a period not ex
ceeding ten days (except as provided in the next section), as follows :
1st. The party asking the adjournment shall, if required by his adversary,
prove by his own oath, or otherwise, that he cannot, for want of material
testimony which he expects to procure, safely proceed to trial.
2d. The party asking the adjournment shall also, if required by the ad
verse party, consent that the testimony of any witness of such adverse party
who is in attendance be then taken by deposition before the justice, which
shall accordingly be done; and the testimony so taken may be read on the
trial with the same effect, and subject to the same objections, as if the wit
ness were produced.

Sec. 586. An adjournment may be had, either at the time of join
ing the issue, or at any subsequent time to which the cause may stand adjourned, on application of either party, for a period longer than ten days,
but not to exceed ninety days from the time of the return of the summons,
upon proof, by the oath of the party or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the
justice, that such party cannot be ready for trial before the time to which
he desires an adjournment for the want of material evidence, describing it;
and that the delay has not been made necessary by any act or negligence on
his part since the action was commenced, and that he expects to procure
the evidence at the time stated by him.

Sec. 587. No adjournment shall be granted for a period longer
than ten days upon the application of either party, .except upon condition
that such party file an undertaking, with sureties, to be approved by the
justice, to the effect that they will pay to the opposite party the amount of
any judgment which may be recovered against the party applying.

Sec. 588. If the plaintifff fail to appear at the return day of the
summons, the action shall be dismissed. If the defendant fail to appear at
the return day of the summons, or if either party fail to attend at a day to
which the trial has been adjourned, or fail to make the necessary pleading
or proof on his part, the case may, nevertheless, proceed, at the request of
the adverse party, and judgment shall be given in conformity with the
pleadings and proofs.

Sec. 589. A trial by jury shall be demanded at the time of join
ing issue; and shall be deemed waived if neither party then demand it.
When demanded the trial of the case shall be adjourned until a time and
place fixed for the return of the jury. If neither party desire an adjourn
ment, the time and place shall be determined by the justico, and shall be
on the same day or within the next two days. The jury shall be sum
moned, upon an order of the justice, from the citizens of the precinct or
county, and not from the bystanders.

Sec. 590. At the time appointed for the trial, the justice shall
proceed to call from the jurors for the trial of the issue. The jury, by con
sent of the parties, may consist of any number not more than six nor less
than three.

Sec. 591. If a sufficient number of competent and iudifferent
jurors do not attend, the justice shall direct others to be summoned from
the vicinity, and not from the bystanders, sufficient to complete the jury.

Sec. 592. Either party may challenge the jurors. The challenge
shall be either peremptory or for cause. Each party shall be entitled to
three peremptory challenges. Either party may challenge for cause on any
grounds set forth in section 164. Challenges for cause shall be tried by
the justice in a summary manner, who may examine the juror challenged
and witnesses.
Judgment and Execution.

Sec. 593. Judgment that the action be dismissed without preju
dice to a new action may be entered, with costs, in the following cases:
1. When the plaintifff voluntarily dismisses the action before it is finally
submitted;
2. "When he fails to appear at the time specified in the summons, or upon
adjournment, or within one hour thereafter;
3. When it is objected at the trial, and appears by the evidence, that the
action is brought in the wrong county; but, if the objection be taken and
overruled, it shall be cause only of reversal on appeal, and shall not other
wise invalidate the judgment; if not taken at the trial, it shall be deemed
waived, and shall not be cause of reversal.

Sec. 594. When the defendant fails to appear and answer, judg
ment shall be given for the plaintifff as follows:
1. When a copy of the account, note, bill or other obligation upon which
the action is brought was filed with the justice at the time the summons
was issued, judgment shall be given, without further evidence, for the sum
specified in the summons;
2. In other cases the justice shall hear the evidence of the plaintifff, and
render judgment for such sum only as shall appear by the evidence to be
just; but in no case exceeding the amount specified in the summons.

Sec. 595. Upon issue joined, if a jury trial be not demanded, the
justice shall hear the evidence and decide all questions of fact and of law,
and render judgment accordingly.

Sec 596. Upon a verdict, the justice shall immediately render
judgment accordingly. When the trial is by the justice, judgment shall
be entered immediately after the close of the trial, if the defendant has
been arrested and* is still in custody; in other cases it shall be entered
within four days after the close of the trial.

Sec. 597. When the amount found due to either party exceeds
the sum for which the justice is authorized to enter judgment, such party
may remit the excess, and judgment may be rendered for the residue.

Sec 598. If the defendant, at any time before the trial, offer in
writing to allow judgment to be taken against him for a specified sum, the
plaintifff may immediately have judgment therefore with the costs then ac
crued; but if he do not accept such offer before the trial, and fail to re
cover in the action a sum equal to the offer, he shall not recover costs, but
costs shall be adjudged against him, and, if he recover, deducted from his
recovery. But the offer and failure to accept it shall not be given in evi
dence to affect the recovery, otherwise than as to costs, as above provided.

Sec 599. When a judgment is rendered in a case where the de
fendant is subject to arrest and imprisonment thereon, it shall be so stated
in the judgment, and entered in the docket.

Sec 600. When the prevailing party is entitled to costs by this
chapter, the justice shall add their amount to the verdict; or in case of a
failure of the plaintifff to recover, or in case of a dismissal of the action,
shall enter up judgment in favor of the defendant for the amount of such
costs.

Sec. 601. The justice, on demand of the party in whose favor
judgment is rendered, shall give him a transcript thereof, which may be
filed and docketed in the office of the district clerk of the county whore the judgment was rendered. The time of the receipt of the transcript by the
district clerk shall be noted by him thereon, and entered in the docket; and
from that time executions may be issued by the district clerk on such judg
ments to the sheriff of any other county of the Territory in the same man
ner as upon judgments recovered in the higher courts. All process upon
judgments recovered in justices' courts, to be executed within the same
county, shall be issued by the justice or his successors in office.

Sec. 602. Executions for the enforcement of a judgment in a jus
tice's court may be issued on the application of the party entitled thereto,
at any time within five years from the entry of judgment.

Sec. 603. The execution, when issued by a justice, shall be di
rected to the sheriff or to a constable of the county, and subscribed by the
justice by whom the judgment was rendered, or by his successor in office,
and shall bear date the day of its delivery to the officer to be executed. It shall
intelligibly refer to the judgment, by stating the names of the parties, and
the name of the justice before whom, and of the county, and the precinct
or village where, and the time when, it was rendered; the amount of judg
ment, if it be for money; and if less than the whole is due, the true amount
due thereon. It shall contain, in like cases, similar directions to the sher
iff or constable as are required by the provisions of this chapter in an exe
cution to the sheriff.

Sec. 604. The sheriff or constable to whom the execution is di
rected shall"proceed to execute the same in the same manner as the sheriff
is required, by the provisions of this chapter, to proceed upon executions
directed to him; and the constable, when the execution is directed to him,
shall be vested for that purpose with all the powers of sheriff.
General Provisions.

Sec. 605. The provisions of this chapter which are referred to,
and those also in respect to which no special provision is made, shall be ap
plicable to justices' courts and the proceedings therein.

Sec. 606. Every justice shall keep a book denominated " A
Docket," in which he shall enter:
1. The title of every action or proceeding.
2. The object of the action or proceeding; and, if a sum of money be
claimed, the amount of the demand.
3. The date of the summons and the time of its return; and, if an order
to arrest the defendant be made, or a writ of attachment be issued, a state
ment of these facts.
4. The time when the parties or either of them appear, or their non-ap
pearance if default be made; a minute of the pleadings; if in writing, re
ferring to them; if not in writing, a concise statement of the material parte
of the pleading.
5. Every adjournmeut, stating on whose application, whether on oath,
evidence or consent, and to what time.
6. The demand for a trial by jury, when the same is made, and by whom
made; the order for the jury, and the time appointed for the trial and re
turn of the jury.
7. The names of the jury who appear and are sworn; the names of all
witnesses sworn, and at whose request.
8. The verdict of the jury, and when received; if the jury disagree and
are discharged, the fact of such disagreement and discharge.
9. The judgment of the court, specifying the costs included and the time
when rendered.
10. The issuing of execution, when issued, and to whom; the renewals
thereof, if any, and when made; and a statement of any money paid to the
justice, and when and by whom.
11. The receipt of a notice of appeal, if any be given.

Sec. 607. The several particulars of the last section specified
shall be entered under the title of the action to which they relate, and at
the time when they occur. Such entries in a justice's docket or a tran
script thereof, certified by the justice or his successor in office, shall be
prima facie evidence to prove the facts so stated therein.

Sec. 608. A justice shall keep an alphabetical index to his docket,
in which shall be entered the names of the parties to each judgment, with
a reference to the page of entry. The names of the plaintifffs shall be en
tered in the index in the alphabetical order of the first letter of the family
names.

Sec. 609. It shall be the duty of every justice, upon the expira
tion of his term of office, to deposit with his successor his official dockets,
as well his own as those of his predecessors, which may be in his custody.
to be kept as public records. If the office of a justice becomes vacant by
his death or removal from the precinct or village, or otherwise, before his
successor is elected and qualified, the dockets in possession of such justice
shall be deposited with the county recorder of the county, to be by him
delivered to the successor in office of the justice.*

Sec. 610. Any justice with whom the docket of his predecessor
is deposited, may issue execution on a judgment there entered and unsatis
fied, in the same manner and with the same effect as the justice by whom
the judgment was entered might have done. '

Sec. 611. The justice elected to fill a vacancy shall be deemed
the successor of the justice whose office became vacant before the expiration
of a full term. When a full term expires, the same or another person
elected to take office in the same precinct or village, from that time shall
be deemed the successor.

Sec. 612. When two or more justices are equally entitled under
the last section to be deemed the successors in office of the justice, the
judge of probate shall, by a certificate subscribed by him and filed in the
office of the district clerk, designate which justice shall be the successor of
a justice going out of office, or whose office has become vacant.
* As amended by act of 1860.

Sec. 613. The summons, execution, and every other paper, made
or issued by a justice, except a subpoena, shall be filled without a blank
left to be filled by another, otherwise it shall be void.

Sec. 614. In case of the sickness, other disability, or necessary
absence of a justice on the return of a summons, or at the time appointed
for a trial, another justice of the same precinct or village may, at his re
quest, attend in his behalf, and shall thereupon become vested with the
power, for the time being, of the justice before whom the summons was re
turnable. In that case the proper entry of the proceedings before the
attending justice, subscribed by him, shall be made in the docket of the
justice before whom the summons was returnable. If the case be adjourned
the justice before whom the summons was returnable may resume jurisdic
tion.

Sec. 615. A justice may, at the request of a party, and on being
satisfied that it is expedient, specially depute any discreet person of suit
able age, and not interested in the action, to serve a summons or execution
with or without an order to arrest the defendant, or with or without a
writ of attachment. Such deputation shall be in writing on the process.

Sec. 616. The person so deputed shall have the authority of a
constable in relation to the service, execution and return of such process,
and shall be subject to the same obligations.

Sec. 617. A constable, notwithstanding the expiration of his
term of office, may proceed and complete the execution of all final process
which he has begun to execute, in the same manner as if he still continued
in office, and his sureties shall be liable to the same extent.

Sec. 618. A justice may punish as for contempt persons guilty of
the following acts, and no others:
1. Disorderly, contemptuous or insolent behavior toward the justice
while holding the court, tending to interrupt the due course of a trial or
other judicial proceedings.
2. A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct or violent disturbance in
the presence of the justice, or in the immediate vicinity of the court held
by him, tending to interrupt the due course of trial or other judicial pro
ceeding.
3. Disobedience or resistance to the execution of a lawful order or pro
cess made or issued by him.
4. Disobedience to a subpoena duly served, or refusing to be sworn or
answer as a witness.
5. Rescuing any person or property in the custody of any officer by vir
tue of an order or process of the court held by him.

Sec. 619. When a contempt is committed in the immediate view
and presence of the justice, it may be punished summarily, for which an
order shall be made reciting the facts as occurring in such immediate view
and presence, adjudging that the person proceeded against is thereby guilty
of a contempt, and that he be punished as therein prescribed. When the
contempt is not committed in the immediate view and presence of the jus-tice, a warrant of arrest may be issued by such justice, on which the person
so guilty may be arrested and brought before the justice immediately,
when an opportunity to be heard in his defense or excuse shall be given.
The justice may thereupon discharge him, or may convict him of the of
fense. A justice may punish for contempt by fine or imprisonment, or
both; such fine not to exceed in any case one hundred dollars, and such
imprisonment one day.

Sec. 620. The conviction, specifying particularly the offense and
the judgment thereon, shall be entered by the justice in his docket

Sec. 621. Justices of the peace may issue subpoenas in any action
or proceeding in the courts held by them, and final process on any judg
ment recovered therein, to any part of the county.

Sec. 622. Justices of the peace may issue commissions to take
the depositions of witnesses out of this Territory, and settle interrogatories
to be annexed thereto, and direct the manner in which the commissions
shall be returned. The provisions of this chapter in relation to commis
sioners, so far as the same are consistent with the jurisdiction and powers
of justices' courts, shall be applicable to justices' courts and to actions.

Sec. 623. No action in regard to mining claims shall be main
tained before any justice of the peace.

Sec. 624. No justice of the peace shall have power to grant a
f^ new trial or arrest a judgment.

Sec. 625. Any party dissatisfied with a judgment rendered in a
justice's court may appeal therefrom to the district court at any time within
ten days after the rendition of the judgment.

Sec. 626. The party appealing may, in his discretion, file with
his notice of appeal an affidavit as to any special matters in the proceedings
appealed from; and the justice shall return specially as to all matters con
tained in such affidavit, and file such affidavit with his return.

Sec. 627. An appeal shall be taken by filing a notioe of appeal
with the justice and serving a copy on the adverse party.
,

Sec. 628. Upon receiving the notice of appeal and the undertak
ing, as required in the next section, and on the payment of the costs of
the action, the justice shall transmit to the clerk of the district court a
copy of his docket in the case, the undertaking filed and the notice of ap
peal.

Sec. 629. An appeal from a justice's court shall not be effectual
for any purpose, unless an undertaking be filed, with two or more sureties
approved by the justice, in a sum equal to twice the amount of the judg
ment and costs, when the judgment is for the payment of money; or twice
the value of the property added to twice the amount of the costs, when the
judgment is for the recovery of specific personal property; and shall be to
the effect that the appellant will pay the amount of the judgment appealed
from, or the value of the property specified in such judgment, as the case
/
may be; provided, the judgment shall be affirmed by the appellate court,
together with the costs on the appeal. If the judgment appealed from be other than for the recovery of money or specific personal property, the
amount of the undertaking, on appeal to stay proceedings, shall be fixed
by the justice, and shall be to the effect that the appellant will pay all costs
on appeal, and all damages which respondent may sustain thereby; pro
vided, the judgment appealed from be affirmed.

Sec. 630. If an execution be issued, on the filing of the under
taking, staying all proceedings, the justice shall, by order, direct the officer
to stay all proceedings on the same. Such officer shall, upon payment of
his fees for services rendered on the execution, thereupon relinquish all
property levied upon, and deliver the same to the judgment debtor, to
gether with all monies collected from sales or otherwise. If his fees be
not paid, the officer may retain so much of the property, or proceeds thereof,
as may be necessary to pay the same.

Sec. 631. The party appealing shall furnish to the district court
the papers mentioned in section 629 of this act, certified by the justice to
be correct.

Sec. 632. Costs shall be allowed to the prevailing party in a jus
tice's court, as follows:
1st. To the plaintifff, ten per cent, on the amount of the money or the
value of the property recovered, if the action was litigated; five per cent,
if the action was not litigated;
2d. To the defendant, ten per cent, on the amount, or the value of the
property claimed by the plaintifff in his complaint.

Sec. 633. In addition to the costs, as allowed in the last section,
the prevailing party shall be allowed his money disbursements in the ac
tion.

Sec. 634. Justices of the peace shall receive from the sheriff or
constables of their county all monies collected on any process or order is
sued by their courts respectively, and all monies paid to them in their offi
cial capacity, and shall pay the same over to the parties entitled or
authorized to receive them, without delay. For a violation of this section
they may be removed from their office, and shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor.

Sec. 635. Justices of the peace may, in all cases, require a de
posit of money, or an undertaking, as security for costs of court, before
issuing a summons.

Sec. 636. The provisions of sections 521, 522, 525, 527, 528,
529, 533 and 534 shall be applicable to justices' courts and actions therein.
Miscellaneous Provisions.

Sec. 637. The supreme court may make rules, not inconsistent
with the laws of the Territory, for its own government and the govern
ment of the district courts, but such rules shall not be in force until thirty
days after their adoption and publication.

Sec. 638. If an action be brought against a sheriff for an act
one by virtue of his office, and he give written notice thereof to the sure^
ties on any bond of indemity received by him, the judgment recovered
therein shall be conclusive evidence of his right to recover against such sure
ties; and the court or judge, in vacation, may, on motion, upon notice of
five days, order judgment to be entered up against them for the amount so
recovered, including costs.

Sec. 639. Whenever a summons or other process is served upon a
party who is unable to read, or who does not understand the English lan
guage, it shall be the duty of the officer making the service to explain to
such party the nature of the summons or other process.

Sec. 640. Words used in this act in the present tense shall be
deemed to include the future as well as the present; words used in the sin
gular number shall be deemed to include the plural, and the plural the sin
gular; writing shall be deemed to include printing or printed paper; oath
to include affirmation or declaration; signature or subscription to include
mark, when the person cannot write, his name being written near it, and
witnessed by a person who writes his own name as a witness.
An Act to enforce the Collection of Territorial Revenue.
) [Approved December 15, 1868.1


Section 1. That in all suits or proceedings of a civil nature in
the name or in behalf of the Territory, for the purpose of enforcing the
revenue of the Territory against county officers or other persons delinquent
in that behalf, the district court for the county and the proper judge thereof
in which the capital is or may be located or otherwise established shall have
the same jurisdiction as the court or judge of the county in which any such
cause of action shall have or may hereafter have, or in which any such de
linquent may reside or be found, and that, for the purpose of exercising the
jurisdiction hereby given, the process of the said court or judge of the
county in which the capital is or may be situated, may be addressed to the
sheriff or any other proper officer of any county in the Territory, and shall
by such sheriff or other officer be executed and returned to the court or
judge issuing the same, in like manner and with the same force and effect
as if the same had issued from the court or proper judge of which such
sheriff or other officer is the proper officer by existing law, or as the court
or judge issuing the same shall direct.

Sec. 2. All acts or parts of acts conflicting with this act are
hereby repealed.
Sec. 3. This act shall take effect and be in force from and after the first
day of January, A. D. one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine.
An Act concerning Witnesses.
[Approved January 27, 1871.]


Section 1. For the purpose of impeaching the credibility of any
witness in any judicial proceeding, civil or criminal, in any court in this
Territory, the general reputation of such witness for honesty, integrity,
truth or veracity may be inquired into.
Sec. H. This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its pas
sage.
An Act concerning Proceedings in Justice's Courts.
[Approved February 13, 1873.]

Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the Territory of Arizona:

Section 1. When an action or proceeding is commenced in the
court of any justice of the peace of this Territory, and the person upon
whom service of summons is to be made is a non-resident of the Territory,
or is absent therefrom, or after due diligence cannot be found, or who con
ceals himself to avoid service of summons, and the fact shall appear by affi
davit by or on behalf of plaintifff to the satisfaction of the justice, and
it shall in like manner appear that a cause of action exists in favor of the
plaintifff against the person upon whom service is to be made, the justice
shall grant an order that the service be made by the publication of the
summons; the order shall direct the publication to be made in some news
paper to be designated as most likely to give notice to the defendant or per
son to be served, and for such time as may be deemed reasonable, once a
week for at least four weeks; the justice shall issue a new summons, re
turnable in not less than sixty nor more than seventy days from the date
thereof; the justice shall also direct a copy of the summons to be deposited
in the postoffice, directed to the person to be served at his place of residence,
if the same be known or can be ascertained.

Sec. 2. Upon the return day of the summons, after proof of pub
lication as above provided for, and proof that a copy of the summons has
been deposited in the post-office, directed to the person to be served at his
place of residence, or that his place of residence is unknown and could not
be ascertained, the justice shall proceed with the case, and have the same
jurisdiction, as if the summons had been personally served, provided in all
cases that proof of personal service had out of the Territory shall be equiva
lent to publication and deposit in the post-office.
Sec. 3. This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its
passage.
An Act concerning Interpreters.
[Approved February 9, 1875.]

Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the Territory of Arizona :

Section 1. That in all the courts of this Territory, whenever it
becomes necessary to employ the services of an interpreter, that the presiding
judge or justice thereof may appoint any suitable person, possessing the
requisite knowledge of the language to be interpreted, to act in that
capacity.

Sec. 2. Such interpretation, either verbal or written, shall be
deemed the official interpretation of the court.

Sec. 3. If any good cause be shown why such appointment should not be made at the time of making the appointment by either party in suit,
preliminary examination, or prosecution, the objection shall be heard and
disposed of in a summary manner by the presiding judge or justice, and if
the objection be sustained, such appointment shall be made as will answer
the demands of substantial fairness in the interpretation.

Sec. 4. Interpreters shall receive for their services the sum of
five dollars per day, commencing at the time when they shall have been
sworn in, and ending when discharged by the court.

Sec. 5. In all civil business the court may require their fees to
be paid into court, before the condition of verdict or judgment, to be paid
by the losing party, and in all criminal business their fees shall become a
county charge, and paid as other county indebtedness.
Sec. 6. This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its
passage.

Section 1. There shall be collected a quarter-yearly license tax
from all persons and corporations engaged in the business, trade, dealing
or occupations in this chapter named, as follows: Every person who may
deal in goods, wares and merchandise, except the agricultural productions
of this Territory, when vended by the producers thereof, and except such
as are sold by auctioneers or commission merchants under license or per
mission according to law, where their sales amount in the average to ten
thousand dollars or more per quarter year, a quarter-yearly licence tax of
forty dollars; when such sales shall so average less than ten and more than
five thousand dollars per quarter, a quarterly-yearly license tax of thirty
dollars; when such sales shall so average less than five and more than two
thousand dollars per quarter, a quarter-yearly license tax of twenty dollars;
and when such sales shall so average less than two thousand dollars per
quarter, a quarter-yearly license tax of eight dollars per quarter.

Sec. 2. Every person who shall sell or vend any wines or distilled
liquors, butchers' meat, drugs and medicines, and who shall keep horses
or carriages for rent or hire, when their business or sales amount to more
than an average of five thousand dollars per quarter, shall pay a quarterly
license tax of twenty dollars; when such business or sales are less than five
thousand dollars per quarter, a quarterly license tax of eight dollars. Each
pawnbroker shall pay a quarterly license tax of twenty-five dollars. *

Sec. 3. All tavern or inn-keepers, all keepers of restaurants or
saloons, all keepers of eating-houses or coffee-houses, and all other persons
who may sell or dispose of any spirituous or malt liquors or wines in less
quantities than one quart, shall pay a license tax of thirty dollars per
•A» amended by act of 1871.

