CHAPTER XLVIII.

0f Proceedings in Civil Cases.

0f the Form of Civil Actions, and of the Parties thereto.

SEC. 1. There shall be in this Territory but one form of civil action for
the enforcement or protection of private rights and the redress or prevention of private wrongs. ‘

SEC. 2. In. such action the party complainingushall be known as the
plaintifff, and the adverse party as the defendant.

SEC. 3. When a question of fact not put in issue by the pleadings is to
be tried by a jury, an order for the trial may be made, statin distinctly
and plainly the question of fact to be tried; and such order s all be the
only authority necessary for. a trial. 

SEC. 4. Every action shall be prosecuted in the name of the real party'in
interest, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.

SEC. 5. In the case of 'an assignment of a thing in action, the action by
the assignee shall be without prejudice to any set-off or other defense, existing at the time of, or before notice of the assignment; but this section shall
not apply to a negotiable promissory note or bill of exchange, transferred
in good faith, and upon good consideration before due.

SEC. 6. An executor or administrator, a trustee of an express trust, or a
person expressly authorized by statute, may sue without joining with him
the persons for whose benefit the action is prosecuted.

SEC. 7. When a married woman is a party, her husband shall be joined
with her; except that: '

lst. When‘the action concerns her separate property, she may sue alone;
2d. .When the action is between herself and her husband, she may sue or
be sued alone.

SEC. 8. If a husband and wife be sued together, the wife may defend for
her own right. ‘

SEC. 9. When an infant is a arty he shall appear by guardian, who may

be appointed by the court in w ich the action is prosecuted, or by a judge
thereof.

SEC. 10. The guardian shall be appointed as follows:

1st. When the infant is plaintifff, upon the application of the infant, if he
be of the age of fourteen years; or if under that age, upon the application
of a relative or friend of the infant ; .

2d. When the infant is defendant, upon the application of the infant, if he
' be of the age of fourteen years, and apply within ten days after the service
of the summons; if he be under the age of fourteen, or neglect so to apply,

 

then upon the application of any other party to the action, or of a relative
or friend of the infant. '

SEC. 11. A father, or, in case of his death or desertion of his family, the
mother, may maintain an action for the injury or death of a child; and a
guardian, for the injury or death of his ward.

SEC. 12. All persons having an interest in the subject of the action and
mobtaining the relief demanded, may be joined as plaintiii's, except when
otherwise provided in this chapter.

SEC. 13. Any person may be made a defendant who has or claims an'
Interest in the controversy adverse -to Ethe plaintifff, or whoiis a necessary

party to a complete determination or settlement ‘of'the question involved
therein. ' '

SEC. 14. Of the parties to the action, those whoare unitedjin interest
shall be joined. as plaintifffs or defendants; butiif the consent of any-one
who should have been joined as plaintifff cannot be obtained, he may be made
a defendant, the reason therefore being stated in the complaint; and when the
question is one of a common or general interest Of many persons, or' when
the parties are numerous and itis. impracticable: to bring ethem‘all before
the court, one or more may sue or defend for the benefit. of all.

‘6

SEC. 15. Persons severally liable rupcn=thevsame obligation or-instrument,
including the parties‘to bills of exchange and promissory. notes and sureties
on the same or separate. instruments, may all or any of them-.beincluded in the same action, at the. option of the plaintifff.

SEC. 16. Anraction shall not abate by the death or other disability of a
party, or by the transfer of any interest therein, if the cause of - action
survive or continue. .In case of .the death or other disability of a party,
the court, on motion, may allow the action to be continued by or against
his representative or successor in interest. In case of any other transfer of
interest, the action may be continued in the name of the original party, or

the court may allow the person to whom the transfer is made to be sub—
stituted in the action.

SEC. 17. The court may determine any controversy between parties
before it, when it can be done without prejudice to the rights of others or
by saving their rights; but. when .a complete - determinationof the controversy cannot be had without the presence of other parties,.the court shall
order them to be brought in.

SEC. 18. Actions for the following cases shall be tried in the county in
which the subject of the action, or some part thereof, is situated, subject to
thepower of the court .to change the place of trial, as provided in this chapter:

' Ist. For the recovery of real property, or of an. estate or interest therein,
-or for the determination in any, form .of such right or interest, and for
.inj uries-to real property. '

 

2d. For the partition of real, property.
3d. For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property.

SEC. 19. Actions for the following causes shall :be triedzinthe county
where the cause, or some. part thereof,.-arose, :subject to the like .power of
the court to change the place of trial: ‘

lst. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed :by statute,
except that when it‘ is imposed for an offense committed on a lake, river,
or other stream. of water,- situated in two or more counties, the actionmay
be brought in any county bordering on such lake, river,<'or:5stream, and
'opposite to the place where the offense was "committed.

. 26. Against 'a public oiiieer orperson especially appointed to execute
his duties, for an act done by him in virtue of his emce, orsagainst a person
who, by his command or in his aid, does anything touching the duties of
such officer. ’

SEC. 20. In all other cases, the action-shall be . tried in the county -'in
which the parties, or :some of them, reside, at the comencement-of the
action, or the defendant may be-fonnd; or if none .of the parties reside in
the. Territory, the same maybe tried in any county'which the plaintifff may
designate in his complaint ; subject, however, tot-he power of thecourt to
change the place of trial, as provided in this chapter.

SEC. 21. The court may, on motion, change the place of trial in the
' :following cases: ~

1st. When the county designated in the complaint is not the proper
county. .
h2d. When there is reason to believe that an impartial trial cannot be had
t erein. .

3d. When the convenience‘of witnesses and the ends of justice would be
promoted by the change. . .

4th. When from any cause the judge is disqualified from acting . in the
action.

0f the Manner of commencing Civil Actions.

SEC. 22. Civil. actions in the district courts shall :be commenced by the
filing. of a complaint with the clerk of the court in which the action is
brought, and'the-issuance of a summons thereon. - /

SEC. 23. Theclerk shall endorse on the complaint the day, month, and
year the-sameis filed; and at- any time- after the filing, the plaintifff, or his
attorney, may issue and sign a summons directed to the defendant.

SEC. 24. The summons shall state the parties to the action, the court in
which it is brought, the county in- which the complaint is filed, and require
the defendant to appear and answer the complaint within the time mentioned in the‘next sectin, after the service of summons,» exalusive of the
day of service :- or; that - judgment, by default,le be taken against him.

SEC. 25. The time Ain'which the summons shall require the defendant to
answer the complaint, shall be as‘follows;

 

1st. If the defendant is served within the county in which the action is
brought, twenty days.

2d. If the defendant is served out of the county, but in the district in
which the action is brought, thirty days.

3d. In all other cases, forty days.

SEC. 26. There shall also be inserted in the summons a notice, in substance as follows: ‘

1st. In an action arising on contract for the recovery only of money or
damages, that the plaintifff will take jud ment for a sum specified therein,
if the defendant fail to answer the comp aint. °

2d. In other actions, that if the defendant fail to answer the complaint,
the plaintifff will apply to the court for the relief demanded therein.

SEC. 27. In an action affecting the title to real property, the plaintifff, at
the time of filing the complaint, or at any time afterwards, may file with
the recorder of the county in which the property is situated, a notice of
the pendency of the action, containing the names of the parties, the object
of the action, and a. description of the roperty in that county affected
thereby. From the time of fllin g only, shall the pendency of the action be

constructive notice to a purchaser or mcumbrancer of the property affected
thereby. ' ‘ '

SEC. 28. The summons shall be served by the sherid‘ of the county where
the defendant is found, or by his deputy, or by a person specially appointed
by him, or appointed by a judge of the court in which the action is
brought. A copy of the complaint shall be served ‘with the summons.
The summons shall be returned, with the certificate or aiiidavit of the officer
of its service, and of the service of the copy of the complaint, to the oihce
of the clerk in which the complaint is filed; such summons may also be
served by any white male inhabitant over twenty-one years of age, and
returned as above directed, with his aiiidavit,'showing the time and man.
ner of serving the same, and, the complaint therewith.

SEC. 29. The summons shall be served by delivering a copy thereof '
attached to the copy of the complaint, as follows :

lst. If the suit be against a corporation, to, the president or other head
of the corporation, secretary, cashier, or managing agent thereof, or to any
lawful agent appointed for that purpose, or any director or stockholder.

2d. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years, to such minor
personally, and also to his father, mother, or guardian ; or if there be none
within the Territory, then to any person having the care and control of such
mingr, or with whom he resides, or in whose service he is employed.

3 . If against a person judicially declared to be of unsound mind, or
incapable of conducting his own affairs, and for whom a guardian has been .
appointed, to such guardian. ‘

4th. In all other cases, to the defendant personally.

SEC. 30. When the person on whom the service is to be made resides
out of the Territory, or has departed from the Territory, or cannot,
- after due diligence, be found within the Territory, or conceals himself
to avoid the service of summons, and the fact shall appear by aiiidavit
to the satisfaction of the court, or a judge thereof, and it shall in
like manner appear that a cause of action exists against the defendant in
respect to whom the service is to be made, or that he is a. necessary or
proper party to the action, such court or judge may grant an order that
the service be made by the publication of the summons. When it is necessary to commence suit for the foreclosure of a mortgage, or for the complete determination of the title to real estate against the unknown heirs of
any deceased party residing out of the Territory, they may be sued as the
“unknown heirs of the deceased,” and service of the summons may be
made in the manner provided in this section.

SEC. 31. The order shall direct the publication ‘to be made in a newspaper
to be designated as most likely to give notice to the person to be served,
and for such length of time as may be deemed reasonable, at least once a
week. Provided, that publication against a defendant residing out of the
Territory, or absent therefrom, shall not be less than four months. In case
of publication, where the residence of a non-resident or absent defendant is
known, the court or judge shall also direct a copy of the summons and
complaint to be forthwith deposited in the post-oilice, directed to the person
to be served, at his place of residence. When publication is ordered,
personal service of a copy of the summons and complaint out of the Territory shall be equivalent to publication and deposit in the post-office. In .
either case the service of the summons shall be deemed complete at the
expiration of the time prescribed by the order for publication. '

SEC. 32. Where the action is against .two or more defendants, and the
summons is served on one or more, but not on all of them, the plaintifff may
proceed as follows:

lst. If the action be against the defendants jointly indebted upon. a contract, hemay proceed against the defendant served, unless the court otherwise direct ; and if he recover judgment, it may be entered against all the
defendants thus jointly indebted, so far only as that it may be enforced
against the joint property of all, and the separate property of the defendant
served; or,

2d. If the action be against defendants severally liable, he may proceed

against the defendants served, in the same manner as if they were the only
defendants.

SEC. 33. Proof of the service of the summons shall be as follows :

1st. If served by the sheriff or his deputy, the aiiidavit or certincate of
such sheriff or deputy ; or, ‘

2d. ,If by any other person, his affidavit thereof; or,

3d. In case of publication, the aiiidavit of the printer, or his foreman, or
principal clerk, showing the same; and an affidavit of a deposit of a copy
of the summons in the post-office, if the same shall have been deposited; r
or, a ‘

4th. The written admission of the defendant.

SEC. 34. In case of service otherwise than by publication, the certificate
or affidavit shall state the time and place of the service.

SEC. 35. From the time of the service of the summons and copy of com?
plaint in a civil action, the court shall be deemed to have acquired jurisdiction, and to have control of all the subsequent proceedings. A voluntary

.o 

appearance of a defendant shall be. equivalent to personal service of the
summons upon him.Of- the Pleadingsr- in‘ Civil Actions.

SEC. 36. The pleadings are «the formal allegations by the parties of their
respective claimland-defenses, for the judgment of the court.

SEC. 37. All the forms of pleadings in civil actions, and the rules by
which the sumciency- of the pleadings shall be determined, shall be those

prescribed; in this-chapter.

SEC. 38. The only pleading on the part of. the plaintifff shall be the com:plaint or demurrer to the defendant’s answer, and the only pleading -on-the
part'of the defendant shall be the demurrer, or the answer; alcopy of all

leadings, except the cemplaint,’shall be served on the o osite party or
is attorney, if he has appeared within twentydays after a- ormerpleading:
has been served.

SEC. 39. The complaint shall contain:

1st. The title of the action, specifying thername of thecourt'and thename of the county in which the actlon is brought, and the names of the
parties to the action, plaintifff and defendant.

2d. A statement of . the facts constituting the cause of action in ordinary

and concise langua e. a ,
3d. A demand 0 the relief which the plaintih‘ claims. If the recovery

of money, ordamages he: demanded, the amount.thereof shall be stated.

Sec. 40. The defendant may demur to the complaint within the time
requiredin the summons-to answer, when it appears upon the face thereof,

either :

1st. That the court-has n03
the sub ect of the action 3‘ or,

2d. hat the plaintifff has not legal capacity to sue; or,

3d. That there is another action pending between the same parties for
the same cause; or, . A

4th. That there is a defect of parties, plain tiff or defendant; or,

5th. Thu several causes-of. action have been improperly united; or,

6th. That the complaint does not state facts suiiicicnt to constitute --a

cause of action.

urisdiction of - the person of the defendant or

SEC. 41. The demurrer shall distinctly specify the grounds upon which
any of ' the objections to the complaint are-taken. Unless it do so, it may

be disregarded.

SEC. 42. The defendant may demur to the whole complaint, or to one
ormore of several causes of action stated therein, and answer the residue;
or may demur and answer at the same time.

SEC. 43. If the complaint be amended, the amendments shall be filed,
and-acepy served upon-the defendant or his attorney, if he ,-has appeared
by-attcrney; otherwise a new'summons shall issuethereon.

 

SEC. 44. When any of the matters enumerated in section forty does not
appear upon the face of the complaint, the objection may be taken by
answers

SEC. 45. If no such objection be'taken, either by the demurrer or answer,
the defendant shall be deemed to have waived the same, excepting only the
' objection to the jurisdiction of the court, and the obj ection\that the complaint
does not state :facts suiii’cient :to constitute a cause of action. ‘

SEC. 46. The answer of the defendant shall contain: '

1st. In respect to each allegation of the complaint controvert by the
defendant, a general or s cilia denial thereof; or a denial thereof according
to his information and-be 'ef,E or. any knowledge thereof sufhcient to form a
belief} .

2d. A statement of any» new: matter constituting a defense -or. counter-~
claim, in ordinary and concise language. .

SEC. 47. The counterclaim» mentiOned in the last section'shall: be" one
existing in favor of the defendant, and against a-plaintiii; between whom a
several judgment-might be had inthe action, and arising out of mod the
following causes of action ‘:

lst. A-cause of'aetion arising out of the transaction set forth in the complaint as the foundation of the plaintifff‘s claim, or connect-edwith the subject
of the action. '

2d. In an action arising uponcontract; any other cause of action arising
also upon contract,: and:existing.atthecommencement ofth‘e action.

SEC. 48. When cross-demands have existed between persons under such
circumstances that,:if one had brought an action against the other, a counterclaim could have been set up, neither shall be deprived of the benefit thereof
by the assignment or death of the other; but t 8 two demands be deemed
compensated, so far as they equal each other. '

SEC. 49. The defendant may set forth, by answer, as many defenses and
coun ter-claims as he may have. They shall each be separately stated, and
the several defensesshall refer to the causes of action' which they are
intended to answer,'.in a manner. by which they may be intelliginy distinguished.

Sec. 50. Sham answers and defenses'may be stricken out on motion.

SEC. 51. Every pleading shall be subscribed by the party, or his attorney,
and'when the complaint is verified by aiiidavit, the answer. shall be verified
also, except asprovided in the next section. '

SEC. 52. The verification of the answer required in the .last : section may.
be omitted, when an admission of the truth of the complaint mightsubject
the party to prosecution for felony.

SEC. 53. When anaction is brought upon a written instrument, and the
complaint contains a copy of-:sueh instrument, or a copy. is annexed thereto,
the genuineness and due execution of such instrument shall 'be deemed
admitted, unless the answer denying the same be verified.

 

SEC. 54. When the defense to an action is founded upon a Written instrument, and a copy thereof is contained in the answer, or a copy, is annexed
thereto, the genuineness and due execution of such instrument shall be
deemed admitted, unless the plaintifff file with the clerk, five days previous'
to the commencement of the term at which the action is to be tried, an affidavit denying the same.

SEC. 55. In all cases of the verification- of a pleading, the aliidavit of the
party shall state that the same is true of his own knowled e, except as to
the matters which are therein stated on his information or elief, and as to
those matters, that he believes it to be true. And where a pleading is
verified, it shall be by the affidavit of the party, unless he be absent from
the county where the attorney resides, or from some cause unable to verify
it, or the facts are Within the knowledge of his attorney, or other person
verifying the same. When the pleading is verified by the attorney or any '
other person except the party, he shall set forth in the allidavit the reasons
why it is not made by the party. When a corporation is a party, the verification may be made by any other oilicer or agent thereof; or when the
Territory or any oilicer thereof in its behalf is a party, the verification may
be made by any person acquainted with the facts, eXcept that, in actions
prosecuted by the attorney-general in behalf of the Territory, the pleadings
need not in any case be verified.

SEC. 56. It shall not be necessary for a party to set forth in a pleading
the items of an account therein alleged, but he shall deliver to the adverse
party, within five days after a demand thereof in writin , a copy of the
account, or be precluded from giving evidence thereof. ‘he court, or a
judge thereof, may order a further account, when the one delivered is - too

general, or is defective in any particular.

SEC. 57. If irrelevant or redundant matter be inserted in a pleading, it
may be stricken out by the court on motion of any person aggrieved

thereby.

SEC. 58. In an action for the recovery of real property, such property
shall be described, with its metes and bounds, in the complaint.

SEC. 59. In pleading a judgment or other determination of a court or
oilicer of especial jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary to state the facts
conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment or determination may be stated
to have been duly given or made. If such allegation be controverted, the
party pleading shall be bound to establish on the trial the facts conferring

jurisdiction.

SEC. 60. In pleading the performance of conditions precedent in a contract, it shall not be necessary to state the facts showing such performance ; but it may be stated generally that the party duly performed all the
. conditions on his part; and if such allegation be controverted, the party
pleading shall establish on the trial the facts showing such performance.

SEC. 61. In pleading a private statute, or a right derived therefrom, it
shall be suilicient to refer to such statute by its title and the day of its
passage, and the court shall thereupon take judicial notice'thereof ; except
in this code it shall be sufiicient to refer to the chapter by number and its title.

 

SEC. 62. In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be necessary to .
state in the complaint any extrinsic facts for the purpose of showing the

application to the plaintifff of the defamatory matter out of which the cause

of action arose; but it shall be suliicient to state generally that the same

was published or spoken concerning the plaintifff, and if such allegation be

controverted, the plaintifff shall establish on the trial that it was so published or spoken.

SEC. 63. In the actions mentioned in the last section, the defendant may,
in his answer, allege both the truth of the matter charged as defamatory
and any mitigating circumstances to reduce the amount of damages; and
Whether he prove the justification or not, he may give in evidence the mitigating circumstances.

SEC. 64. The plaintifff may unite several causes of action in the same
complaint, when they all arise out of:

1st. Contracts, express or implied ; or, .

2d. Claims to recover specific real property, with or without damages,
for the withholding thereof, or for waste committed thereon, and'the rents
and profits of the same; or,

3d. Claims to recover specific personal property with or without damages, for the withholding thereof; or, "

4th. Claims against a trustee, by virtue of a contract or by operation of
law ; or, '

5th. Injuries to character; or,

6th. Injuries to person; or, a - .

7th. Injuries to property. But the causes of action so united shall all
belong to one only of these classes, and shall affect all the parties to the
action, and not require different places of trial, and shall be separately
stated. '

SEC. 65. Every material allegation of the complaint, not specifically controverted by the answers shall, for the purpose of the action, be taken as
true. But the allegation of new matter in the answer shall be deemed

' controverted by the adverse party, as upon a direct denial or avoidance, as
the case may require. ‘ ’ 

SEC. 66. A material allegation in a pleading is one essential to the claim
or defense, and which could not be stricken from the pleading without
leaving it insuliicient. '

SEC. 67. After the decision of a demurrer,and on the payment of the costs
of the same, the defendant may answer upon such terms as the court shall
direct.

SEC. 68. The Court may, in fuitherance of justice and on such terms as

'may be proper, amend any pleading or proceedings by adding or striking
out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a
party or a mistake in any other respect, and may upon like terms enlarge
‘the time for. an answer or demurrer, or demurrer- to an answer filed. The
court may likewise, upon affidavit showing good cause therefore, after notice

\ to the adverse party, allow upon such terms as may be just, an amendment
_ to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars, and may upon like terms
allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this chapter; and

may upon suc terms as may e just, an upon payment 0 costs, re ieve
a party or his legal representatives from a judgment, order, or other proceeding taken against him through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
elxcusable neglect; when fromr‘any cause the summons and a copy of the
complaint in an action have not been personally served on the defendant,
the court may allow, on such terms as may be just, such defendant or his
legal representatives, at any time within one year after the rendition of
any judgment in such action, to answer to the merits of the original
action.

SEC. 69. When the plaintifff is ignorant of the name of a defendant, such
defendant may be des1gnated in any pleading or proceeding by any name;
and when his true name is discovered, the pleading or proceeding may be
amended accordingly.

SEC. 70. In the construction of a pleading for the purpose of determining
its effects, its allegations shall be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties. 

SEC. 71. The court shall, in every stage of an action, disregard any error
or defect in the pleadings or proceedings, which shall not affect the substantial rights of the parties ; and no judgment shall be reversed or affected by
reason of such error or defect. '

SEC. 72. No person shall be arrested in a civil action, except as prescribed
by this chapter.

SEC. 73. The defendant may be arrested as hereinafter prescribed, in the
following cases arising after the passage of this chapter:

1st. In an action for the recovery of money or' damages, on a cause of action arising upon contract, express or implied, when the defendant is
about to depart from the Territory with intent to defraud his creditors, or
when the action is for willful injury to person, to character, or to property,
knowing the property to belong to another.

2d. In an action for a fine or penalty, or for money or property embezzled or fraudulently misapplied, or converted to his own use, by a public
oiiicer; or an officer of a corporation, or an attorney, factor, broker, agent,
or clerk, in the course of his employment as such ; or by any other person
in a fiduciary capacity, or for misconduct or neglect in office, or in a .professional employment; or for a willful violation of duty.

3d. In an action to recover the possession of personal property unjustly
detained, when the property, or any part thereof, has been conceale ,removed, or disposed of, so that it cannot be found or taken by the oiiicer.

4th. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in contracting the
debt, or incurring the obligation for which the action is brought; or in concealing or disposing of the property, for the taking, detention, or conversion of which the action is brought. ' ‘

5th. When the defendant has removed or disposed of his property, or is
about to do so, with intent to defraud his creditors.

 

SEC. 74. An order for the arrest of the defendant shall be obtained from
a judge of the court in which the action is brought.

SEC. 75. The order may be made whenever it shall appear to the judge,
by the affidavit of the plaintifff or some other person, that a sufficient cause
of action exists; and that the case is one of those mentioned in section
seventy-three. The ali'idavit shall be either positive, or upon information’
and belief; and when upon information and belief, it shall state the facts
upon which the information and belief are founded. If an order of arrest
be made, the affidavit shall be filed with the clerk of the court.

SEC. 76. Before making the order, the judge shall require 'a written
undertaking on the part of theplaintifff, with sureties, to the effect that
if the defendant recover judgment, the plaintifff will . ay all costs and
charges that may be awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he
may sustain by reason of the arrest, not exceeding the sum specified in the
undertaking, which shall be at least five hundred dollars. Each of the
sureties shall annex to the undertaking an affidavit that he is a resident
and householder, or freeholder, Within the Territory, and worth double the
'sum specified in the undertaking, over and above all his debts and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt ‘from execution. The undertaking shall
.be filed with the clerk of the court.

SEC. 77. The order may be made to accompany the summons, or any other
time afterwards and before judgment. It shall require the sheriff of the
county where the defendant may be found forthwith to arrest him and hold

him to bail in a specified sum, and to return the order at a time therein
‘ mentioned to the clerk of the court in which the action is pending.

SEC. 78. The order of arrest, with a copy of the allidavit upon which it
is made, shall be delivered to the sheriff, who, upon arresting the defendant,
shall deliver to him the copy of the aiiidavit; and also, if desired, a copy of
the order of arrest. '

SEC. 79. The sherid' shall execute the order by arresting the defendant,
and keeping him in custody until discharged by law.

SEC. 80. The defendant, at any time before execution, shall be discharged
from the arrest, either upon giving bail, or upon depositing the amount
mentioned in the order of arrest, as provided in this chapter.

SEC. 81. The defendant may give bail, by causing a written undertaking
to be executed by two or more sufiicient sureties, stating their places of
residence and occupations, to the effect that they are bound in the amount
mentioned in the order of arrest; that the defendant shall at all times render himself amenable to the process of the court during the pendency of
the action, and to such as may be issued to enforce the judgment therein ;
or that they will pay to the plaintifff the amount of any judgment which
may be recovered in the action.

SEC. 82. At any time before judgment, or within ten days thereafter,
the bail may surrender the defendant , in their exoneration, or he may surrender himself to the sheriff of the county Where he was arrested.

SEC. 83. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the bail at any
time or place before they are finally charged, "may themselves arrest him,
or by a written authority, endorsed on a certified copy of the undertaking,
may empower the sheriff to do so. Upon the arrest of thedefendant by
the sheriff, or upon his delivery to the sheriff by the bail, 'Or upon his own
surrender,'the bail shall be exonerated: Provided, such arrest, delivery, or
Surrender, take place "before the expiration of ten days after judgment; but
if 'such arrest, delivery, or surrender, be not made Within ten days after
'udgment, the bail shall be finally charged on their undertaking, and be
ound to pay the amount of the judgment within ten days thereafter.

SEC. 84. If the bail neglect or refuse to pay the judgment within ten
days after they are finally charged, judgment againstpsuch bail for the
, amount of “such original; judgment may be, by order of the court, upon
affidavit of "such neglect or refusal, entered against the bail.

SEC. 85. The bail shallalso be exOnerated :by the'dea'th of the defendant,
or his imprisonment in a Territorial prison, or by his legal discharge from
the obligation to render'himself amenable to the precess.

SEC. 86. Within the time limited for that purpose, the sheriff shall file
the order of arrest in the oiiice of the Clerk Of the court in which the action
is pending, with his return endorsed thereon, together with a copy of the .
undertaking of the bail. The original undertaking he shall retain in his
possession ‘until filed, as herein provided. The plaintifff, within ten days
thereafter, may serve upon the sheriff a notice that he does not accept the
bail, Or he shall be deemed to have accepted them, and‘th‘e sheriff shall be
exonerated :from liability. If no notice .be served within ten days, the
original undertaking shall be filed with the clerk of the court.

SEC. 87. Within five days after the receipt of notice, the sheriff or defendant may give to the plaintim-or his attorney, notice of the justification of
the same or other bail (specifying the places of residence and occupations
of the latter), before a‘ judge of the court or district clerk, at a specified
time and place; the time to be not less than five nor more than ten days

thereafter, except by consent of parties. 'In Case other bail be given, there
:shall be a new undertaking. ‘

SEC. 88. The qualifications of bail shall be as follows:

1st. Each of them shall be ‘a resident and househOlder or freeholder
'Within the county. _ .
, 2d. Each shall be worth the ’amount specified in the order of arrest, or
the amount to which the order is reduced, as provided in this chapter, over
.and above all his debts and liabilities, exclusive of prbperty exempt from
execution; but the judge or district clerk, on justifiCation, may allow more
than two sureties to justify severally'in amounts less than that expressed'in
the order, if ’the whole jtistiiication be equivalent 'to that of two suiiicient
1bail. ‘

SEC. 89. For the purpose of justification, each of the bail shall attend
before the judge or distriét clerk at the time and place mentioned in the
.notice, and may be examined on oath on the part of the plaintifff, touching
'his sufficiency, in such manner as the judge or clerk in his discretion may
think proper. The examination shall be reduced to writing, and subscribed by the bail, if required by the plaintifff.

 

SEC. 90. If the judge or clerk find the bail Suiiicient, he shall annex the
examination to the undertaking, endorse his allowance thereon, and cause

them to be filed, and the. sheriff shall thereupon be exonerated from
liability.

SEC. 91. The defendant may, at the time of his arrest, instead of giving
bail, deposit with the sheriff. the amount mentioned in the order. In case
the amount of the bail be reduced, as provided in this chapter, the defeng
dant may deposit such amount instead of giving bail. ,In either case, the
sheriii’ shall give the defendant a certificate of the deposit made, and the
defendant shall be discharged out of custody.

SEC. 92. The sheriff shall immediately after the deposit pay the same
into court, and take from the clerk receiving the same two certificates of
such payment, the one of which he shall deliver or transmit to the plaintifff
or his attorney, and the other to the defendant. For any default in making
such payment, the same proceedings may be had on the oiiicial bond of th
sheriff to collect the sum deposited as in other cases of delinquency. '

SEC. 93. If money be deposited, as provided in the last two sections, bail
may be given, and may. justify upon notice at any time before judgment;
and on the {ilin of the undertaking and justification with the clerk, the
money deposits shall be refunded by such clerk to the defendant.

SEC. 94. Where meney shall have been deposited, if it remain on deposit
at the time of a recovery of a judgment in favor of the plaintifff, the clerk
shall, under the direction of the court, apply the same in satisfaction
thereof, and, after'satisfying the judgment, shall refund the surplus, if any,
to the defendant. If the judgment be in favor of the defendant, the clerk
shall, under like direction of the Court, refund to him the whole sum

deposited and remaining unapplied.

SEC. 95. If, after being arrested, the defendant escape or be rescued, the
sheriii‘ shall himself be liable as bail; but he may discharge himself from
such liability, by the giving and justification of bail, at any time before
judgment. 

SEC. 96. If a judgment be recovered against the sheriff, upon his liability
as bail, and an execution thereon be returned unsatisfied in whole or in ‘
part, the same proceedings may be had on his official bond for the recovery
of the Whole or any deficiency as in other cases of delinquency.

SEC. 97. A defendant arrested may, at any time before the justification
of bail, apply to the, judge who made the order, or the court in which the
action is pending, upon reasonable notice to the plaintifff to vacate the
order of arrest or to reduce the amount of bail. If the application be
made upon affidavits on the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the

plaintifff may oppose the same by aiiidavits or other proofs, in addition to
those on which the order of arrest was made,

\

SEC. 98. If upon such application it shall satisfactorily appear that there
was not sufficient cause for the arrest, the order shall be vacated; or if it

satisfactorily appear that the bail was fixed too high, the amount shall be
reduced. .

SEC. 99. The plaintifff, in an action to recover the possession of personal
property, may at the time of issuing the summons, or at any time before
answer, claim the delivery of such property to him, as provided in this chapter.

SEC. 100. Where a delivery is claimed, an aliidavit shall be made by the
plaintifff, or by some one in his behalf, showing: '

1st. That the plaintifff is the owner of the property claimed (particularly .
describing it), or is lawfully entitled to the possession thereof;

2d. That the property is wrongfully detained ,by the defendant;

3d. The alleged cause‘ of the detention thereof, according to his best
knowledge, information, and belief;

4th. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment,.or fine,
pursuant to a statute; or seized under an execution or an attachment
against the property of the plaintifff; or, if so seized, that it is by statute
exempt from such seizure; and,

5th. The actual value of 'the property. ‘ . 

SEC. 101. A judge, or clerk of the court in which the action is brought,
shall thereupon, by an endorsement in Writing upon the aiiidavit, order the
sheriff of the county where the property claimed may be, to take the same
from the defendant and deliver it to the plaintifff, upon receiving the undertaking mentioned in the next section. ‘

SEC. 102. Upon the receipt of the affidavit and order, with a written

undertaking executed by two or more sufficient sureties, approved by the
sheriff, to the effect that they are bound in double the value of the property
as stated in the aiiidavit, for the prosecution of the action and for the return of
the property to the defendant, if return thereof be adjudged, and for the
payment to him of such sum as may, for any cause, he recovered against
the plaintifff, the sheriff shall forthwith take the property described in the
affidavit, if it be in the possession of the defendant or his agent, and retain
it in his custody. He shall also, without delay, serve on the defendant 3.
copy of the aiiidavit, order, and undertaking, by delivering the same to him
personally, if he can be found, or to his agent, from whose possession the
property is taken ; or if neither can be found, by leaving them at the usual
place of abode of either, with some person of suitable age and discretion;
or if neither have any known, place of abode, by putting them into the
nearest post-oliice, directed to the defendant. 1

SEC. 103. The defendant may, within two days after the service of a copy
of the affidavit and undertaking, give notice to the sheriii‘ that he excepts
to the suiiiciency‘ of the sureties. If he fails to do so, he shall be deemed
to have waived all objections to them. When the defendant excepts, the
sureties shall justify on notice in like manner as upon bail on arrest; and
the sheriff shall be responsible for the suiiiciency of ~ the sureties until the
objection to them is either waived, as above provided, or until they justify. ’
If the defendant except to the sureties, he cannot reclaim the property, as
provided in the next section.

SEC. 104. At any time before the delivery of the property to the plaintifff the defendant may, if he do not except to the sureties of the plaintifff,
require the return thereof, upon giving to the sheriff a Written undertaking

 

executed. by two or more sumcient sureties, to the efect that they are
bound in double the value of the property, as stated in the affidavit of the
plaintifff, for the delivery thereof to the plaintifff, if such delivery be adjudged,
and for the payment to him of such sum as may for any cause he recovered
against the defendant. If a return of the property be not so required
within five days after the taking and service of notice 'tb the defendant, it
shall be delivered to the plaintifff, except as provided in section one hundred
and nine.

SEC. 105. The defendant’s sureties, upon notice to ,the plaintifff of not
less than two or more than five days, shall justify before a judge or district
clerk, in the same manner as upon bail on arrest; and upon such justification, the sheriff shall deliver the property to the defendant. The sheriff
shall be responsible for the defendant’s sureties until they justify, or until
the justification is completed or expressly waived, and may retain the property until that time; if they, or others in their place, fail to justify at the
time and place appointed, he shall. deliver the property to the plaintifff.

SEC. 106. The qualification of sureties and their justification shall be
such as are prescribed by this chapter  respect to bail upon an order of
arrest. '

SEC. 107. If the property, or any part thereof, be concealed in a building
or enclosure, the sheriff shall publicly demand its delivery; if it be not
delivered, he shall cause the building or enclosure to be broken open, and
take the property into his possession; and if neceSsary, he may call to his
aid the power of his county.

SEC. 108. When the sheriff shall have taken property, as in this chapter
provided, he shall keep it in a-secure place, and delivc“: it to the party
entitled thereto, upon receiving his lawful fees for taking, and his necessary
expenses for keeping the same.

SEC. 109. If the property taken' be claimed by any other person than the
defendant or his agent, and such person make affidavit of his title thereto,
or right to possession thereof, stating the grounds of such title or right,
and serve the same upon the sheriff, the sheriff shall not be bound to keep
the property, or deliver it to the plaintifff, unless the plaintifff, on demand of
him or his agent, indemnify the sheriff against such claim, by an undertaking, by two sufiicient sureties, accompanied by their affidavits, that they
are each worth, double the value of the property as specified in the affidavit
of the plaintifff, over and above their debts and liabilities, exclusive of
property exempt from execution, and are freeholders or householders in the
county; and no claim to such property by any other person than the defendant or his agent shall be valid against the sheriff unless so made.

SEC. 110. The sheriff shall file the order and affidavit, with his proceedings thereon, with the clerk of the court in which the action is pending,
within tWenty days after taking the property mentioned therein.

SEC. 111. An injunction is a writ or order requiring a person to refrain
from a particular act. 'The order or writ may be granted by the court m

 

which the action is brought, or by a judge thereof, and when made by a
judge, may be enforced as the order of the court. ‘

SEC. 112. An injunction may be granted in the following cases:

1. When it shall a. pear by the complaint that the plaintifff is entitled to
the relief demanded: and such relief, or any part thereof, consists in
restraining the commission or continuance of the act complained of, either
for a limited period or perpetually. ' . l

2. When it shall appear by the complaint or aiiidavit that the commission
or continuance of some act during the litigation would produce great or
irreparable injury to the plaintifff. '

3. When it shall appear during the litigation that the defendant is doing,
or threatens, or is about to do, or is procuring or suffering to be done, some
act in violation of the plaintifff’s rights respecting the subject of the action,
and tending to render the judgment ineffectual. '

SEC. 113. The injunction may be granted at the time of issuing the summons upon the complain-t; and at any time afterwards, before judgment
upon affidavits. The complaint in the one case, and the affidavits in the

, other, shall show satisfactorily that sufi’icient grounds exist therefore. N o
injunction shall be granted on the complaint, unless it be verified by the
oath of the plaintifff, or some one in his behalf, that he, the person making
the oath, has read the complaint, or heard the complaint read, and knows
the contents thereof, and the same is true of his own knowledge, except
the matters therein stated on information and belief; and that as to those
matters, he believes it to be true. When granted on the complaint, a copy
of the complaint and verification attached shall be served with the injunction; when granted upon aiiidavit, a copy of the aiiidavit shall be served a
with the injunction. '

SEC. 114. An injunction shall not ,be allowed after the defendant has,

‘ answered, unless upon notice or upon an order to show cause; but in such

case the defendant may be restrained until the decision of the court or
judge granting or refusmg the injunction.

SEC. 115. On granting an injunction, the court or judge shall require,
except Where the people of the Territory are a party plaintifff, a written
undertaking on the part of the plaintifff, with suiiicient sureties, to the
effect that the plaintifff will pay to the party enjoined such damages, not
exceeding an amount to be specified, as such party may sustain by reason
of the injunction, if the court finally decide that the plaintifff was not entitled thereto.

SEC. 116. If the court or judge deem it proper that the defendant, or
any of several defendants, should be heard before granting the injunction,
an order may be made requiring cause to be shown at a specified time and
place why the injunction should not be granted; and the defendant may.
in the meantime be restrained.

SEC. 117. An injunction to suspend the general and ordinary business of
a corporation shall not be granted except by the court or judge; nor
shall it be granted without due notice of the application therefore to the
proper officers of the corporation, except When this Territory is, a party to
the proeeedino'.

 

SEC. 118. If an injunction be granted without notice, the defendant, at

any time before the trial, may apply, upon reasonable notice to the judge
who granted the injunction or to the court in which the action is brought,
to dissolve or modify the same. The application may be made upon the
complaint and the atiidavit on which the injunction was granted, or upon
affidavit on the part of the defendant, with or without the answer. If the '
application be made upon affidavits on the part of the defendant, but not
otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose the same by affidavits, or other evidence
in addition to those on which the injunction was granted.

SEC. 119. If upon such application it satisfactorily appear that there is
not suiiicient ground for the injunction, it shall be dissolved; or, if it satiso
factorily appear that the extent of the injunction is too great, it shall be
modified.

SEC. 120. The plaintifff, at the time of issuing the summons, or at any
, time afterwards, may have the property of the defendant attached as
securit for the satisfaction of- any judgment that may be recovered, unless
the de endant give security to pay such judgment, as hereinafter provided
in the following cases: lst. In an action upon a contract, express or implied, for the direct payment of money, and which is not secured by a mortgage upon real or personal property.

2d. In an action upon a contract, express or implied, against a defendant
not residing in this Territory.

SEC. 121. The clerk of the court shall issue the writ of attachmentmpon
receiving an affidavit by or on behalf of the plaintifff, which shall be filed,
showing:

1st. That the defendant is indebted to the plaintifff (specifying the amount
of such indebtedness, over and above all legal' set-offs or counterclaims),
upon a contract express or implied, for the direct payment of money, and
that such contract was made or is payable in this Territory, and that the
payment of the same has not been secured by any mortgage on real or personal property; or, ‘

2d. And also showing: ' ,

1st. That the defendant is not a resident of this Territory. ‘ a r

2d. That he is about to remove his property and effects beyond the limits
of this Territory. .

3d. That he has absconded from his usual place of abode in this Territory, so that the ordinary process of law cannot be served upon him.

4th. That he is about fraudulently to conceal or make away with his
property and effects, so as to defraud, hinder, or delay his creditors.

5th. That he has fraudulently concealed or made away with his property,
so as to defraud, hinder, or delay his creditors. ,
_ 6th. That he is al)outfraudulently to convey, assign, or dispose of his pro.perty, so as to, defraud, hinder, or delay his creditors.

7th. That he has fraudulently conveyed, assigned, and disposed of his property, to defraud, hinder, or delay his creditors.

8th. That the defendant is a non-resident corporate body.

9th. That he is about to remove from this Territory to avoid the ordinary
process of law. »

 

SEC. 122. Before issuing the writ the clerk shall require a written undertaking on the part of the plaintifff, in a sum not less than double the amount
claimed by the plaintifff, with suiiicient sureties to the eii‘ect that if the
defendant recover judgment'the plaintifff will pay all costs that may be
awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he may sustain by reason
of the attachment, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking.

SEC. 123. The writ shall be directed to the sheriff of any county in
which property of such defendant may be, and require him to attach and
safely keep all the property of such defendant within his county, not exem t
'from execution, or so much thereof as may be suiiicient to satisfy t e
plaintifff’s demand, the amount of which shall be stated in conformity with
the complaint, unless the defendant give him security by the undertaking,
of at least two suiiicient sureties, in an amount suiiicient to satisfy such
demand, besides costs; in which case, the sheriff shall take such undertaking and release the property attached. Several writs may be issued at the
same time to the sheriffs of different counties.

SEC. 124. The rights or shares which the defendant may have in the
stock of any corporation or company, together with the interest and profits
thereon, and all debts due such defendant, and all other property 1n this
Territory of such defendant not exempt from execution, may be attached,
and if judgment be recovered, be sold to satisfy the judgment and execution.

SEC. 125. The sheriff to whom the writ is directed and delivered, shall
execute the same without delay, and if the undertaking mentioned in section 123 be not given, as follows :’

1st. Real property shall be attached by leaving a copy of the writ with
the occupant thereof; or if there be no occupant, by posting a copy in a
conspicuous place thereon, and filing a copy, together with a description of
the pro erty attached, with the recorder of the county. .

2d. ersonal property capable of manual delivery shall be attached by
taking it into custody.

3d. Stock or shares, or interest in stock or shares, of any corporation or
company, shall be attached, by leaving with the president, or other head of
the same, or the secretary, cashier, or managing agent thereof, a copy of
the writ, and a notice stating that the stock or interest of the defendant is
attached in pursuance of such writ.

4th. Debts and credits, and other personal property,not capable of manual delivery, shall be attached by leaving with the person owing such debts,
or having in his possession or under his control such credits, or other personal property, a copy of the writ, and a notice that the debts owing by
him to the defendant or the creditors, and other personal property in his
possession or under his control, belonging to the defendant, are attached in
pursuance of such writ.

SEC. 126. Upon receiving information in writing from the plaintifff, or his
attorney, that any person has in his possession or under his control any
credits or other personal property belonging to the defendant, or is owing
any debt to the defendant, the sheriii' shall serve upon such person a copy
of the writ, and a notice that such credits, or other property or debts, asthe
case may be, are attached in pursuance of such writ.

SEC. 127. All persons having in their possession, or under their control,

 

any credits or other personal property belonging to the defendant, or owing
any debts to,the defendant at the time of service upon them of a copy of
the writ and notice, as provided in the last two sections, shall be, unless such
property be delivered up or transferred, or such debts be paid to the sheriff,
iable to the plaintifff for the amount of such credits, property, or debt, until

the attachment be discharged, or any judgment recovered by him be satisfied. '

SEC. 128. Any person owing debts to the defendant, or having in his possession or under his control any credits or other personal property belonging to the defendant, may be required to attend before the court or judge,
and be examined on oath respecting the same. The defendant may also be
required to attend for the purpose of giving information respecting his property, and may be examined on oath. The court or judge may, after such
examination, order personal property capable of manual delivery to be
delivered to the sheriff on such terms as may be just, having reference to i
any liens thereon, or claims against the same, and a memorandum to be
given pf all other personal property, containing the amount and description
t ereo .

SEC. 129. The sheriii‘ shall make a full inventory of the property attached,
and return the same with the writ. To enable him to make such return as
to debts and credits attached, he shall request, at the time of service, the
party owing the debt or having the credit to give him a memorandum stating
the amount auddescription of each ; and if such memorandum be refused, he
shall return the fact of refusal with the writ. The party refusing to give
the memorandum may be required to pay the costs of any proceedings taken
for the purpose of obtaining information respecting the amount and description of such debt or credit.

SEC. 130. If an of the property attached be perishable, the sheriff shall
sellxthe same in t e manner in which such property is sold on execution.
. The proceeds and other property attached by ‘him, shall be retained by him
to‘ answer any judgment that may be recovered in the action, unless sooner
subjected to execution upon another judgment recovered previous to the
issuing of the attachment. Debts and credits attached may be collected
by him, if the same can be done without suit. The sheriff’s receipt shall
be a sutiicient discharge for the amount paid.

SEC. 131. If any perscnial property attached be claimed by a third person as his property, the sheriff may summon a jury of six men to try the
.validity of such claim ; and such proceedings shall be had thereon, with the
like effect, as in case of a claim after levy upon execution.

SEC. 132. If judgment be recovered by the plaintiii', the sheriii' shall
satisfy the same out of the property attached by him which has not been
delivered to the defendant, or a claimant as hereinbefore provided, or subjected to execution on another judgment recovered previous to the issuing
of the attachment, if it be sluiicient for that purpose:

1st. By paying to the plaintiii‘ the proceeds of all sales of perishable property sold by him, or of. any debts or credits collected by him, or so much
as shall be necessary to satisfy the judgment.

2d. If any balance remain due, and an execution shall have been issued
on the judgment, he shall sell under the execution so much of the property,
real or ersonal as ma be necessa ‘ to satisf the balance if enouh for

 

a

that purpose remain in his hands. Notices of the sales shall be given, and
the sales conducted as in other cases of. sales on execution.

SEC. 133. If, after selling all the pmperty attached by him remaining in
his hands, and applying the proceeds, together with the proceeds of any
debts‘or credits collected by him, deducting his fees, to the-payment of the
judgment, any balance shall remain due, the sheriff shall proceed to collect

‘ such balance as upon an execution in other cases. Whenever t e judgment
shall have been paid, the sheriff, upon reasonable demands, shal deliver over
to the defendant the attached property remaining in his hands, and any proceeds of the property attached unapplied on the judgment. '

SEC. 134. If the execution be returned unsatisfied, in whole or in part, the
plaintifff may prosecute any undertakinggiven, pursuant to section one hundred and twenty-three or section one hundred and thirty-seven, or he may
proceed as in other cases upon the return of an execution.

SEC. 135. If the defendant recover judgment against the plaintifff, any
undertaking received in the action, all the proceeds of sales and money collected by the sheriff, and all the property attached remaining in‘ the sheriff’s
hands, shall be delivered to the defendant or his agent; the order of attachment shall be discharged, and the property. released. therefrom.

SEC. 136. Whenever the defendant shall have ap eared in the action, he
may apply, upon reasonable notice to the plainti , to, the court or judge
thereof for an order to discharge the same, upon the execution. of the undertaking mentioned in the next section; and if the application be granted, all
the proceeds of sales and monies collected by the sheriff, and all the
property attached remaining in his hands, shall be released from the
attachment and delivered to the defendant upon the justification of the

‘ sureties on the undertaking, if required by the plaintifff.

SEC. 137. Upon such application, the defendant shall deliver to the court
or judge an undertaking, executed by at least two. sureties, residents and
freeholders in the county, to the effect that the sureties will, on demand,
pay to the plaintifff the amount of judgment that may ,be recovered against
the defendant in the action, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which shall be sufficient to satisfy the amount claimed by the plaintifff in his complaint, and the costs. The surcties may be required to justify
on application before the judge or court, and the property attached shall
not be released from the attachment without their justification, if the same
be required. 

SEC. 138. The defendant may also, any time before the time for answering expires, apply on motion, upon reasonable notice to the plaintifff, to the
judge who made the order, or the court in which the action is brought, that
the attachment be discharged, on the ground that the writ was improperly
issued.

SEC. 139.If the motion be made upon affidavits on the part of the
defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose the same by allidavits or other evidence, in addition to those on which the order of attachment wasmade. ‘ ‘ '

SEC. 140. If upon such application it shall satisfactorily appear that the
, Writ of attachment was improperly issued, it shall, be discharged. '

 

SEC. 141. Upon the return of the Writ of attachment, the defendant may
file his answer under oath, putting in issue the truth of the matters contained in the affidavit, and the same shall be tried as a preliminary issue in
the cause ; and if the afhdavit is not sustained, the attachment shall be dissolved, and the suit shall proceed as if commenced by an ordinary summons; and the plaintifff, upon the dissolution of the attachment, shall be
adjudged to pay all the costs of. the attachment and the damages sustained
thereby, to be determined asin ordinary actions for damages.

. I

SEC. 142. Upon the return of the writ of attachment, if it appear to the
court that an excess‘of property has been attached, the court may, by order,
reduce the amount to what will be suiiicient to satisfy the demands of the
plaintifff, ‘witb ' costs.

SEC. 143. The sheriii' shall return “the writ of attachment with the summons, if issued at“ the same time; otherwise, 'within twenty days after its
receipt, With a certificate ‘of his prOCeedingsfendOrsed thereon or attached
thereto. The provisions of this chapter ’shall not apply to any suits by
attachment already commenced.

SEC. 144. When it is admitted by the pleading or examination fof "a
- party that he has in his possession, or Under his ‘control, any money or
other thing capable of delivery, which, being the subject of the litigation,
is held by “him as trustee‘for another party, or Which belongs or is due to
another party, th'e’court may order the same, upon motidn, to be depOSited
in court or delivered to such party, upon such conditions as may be just,
subject to the further direction of the court.

SEC. 145. A receiver may be appointed by the court in which the action
is pending, or by the judge thereof:

1st. Before judgment prOvisionally on the application of either party,
When he establishes a prima facie right to the property, or an interest
therein which is the subject of the action, and which is in possession of the
adverse party, and the property, or its rents and profits, are in danger'ot
being lost, Or materially injured, or impaired. ‘

2d. After judgment, to dispose of the property accdrding to the .judg
'ment, or to preServe it during the pending of an’appeal; and, ,

3d. In'such other cases as are in. accordance with the practice of courts
of equity juriSdiction. '

0f the Trial and Judgment in Civil Actions.
“Judgment in General.
SEC. 146. A judgment is the iinal determinati‘On of the rights of the

parties in the action‘ or proceeding, and may be entered in term or
vacation.

SEC. 147. Judgment may be given for or against "one‘or more of several
plaintifffs, and for or against ’oneior more of several defendants; and it may,

 

when the justice of the case requires it, determine the ultimate rights of
the parties on each side, as between themselves.

SEC. 148. In an action against several defendants, the court may, in its
discretion, render judgment against one or more of them, leaving the action
to proceed against the others, whenever a several judgment is proper.

SEC. 149. The relief granted to the plaintifff, if there be no answer, shall
not exceed that which he shall have demanded in his complaint; but in
any other case the court may grant him any relief consistent with the case
made by the complaint and embraced Within the issue.

SEC. 150. An action may be dismissed or a judgment of nonsuit entered '
in the following cases:

1st. By the plaintifff himself, at any time before trial, on the payment of
costs, if a counterclaim has not been made. If a provisional remedy has
been allowed, the undertaking shall thereupon be delivered by the clerk to
the defendant, who may have his action thereon.
‘ 2d. By either party, upon the written consent of the other. .

3d. By the court, when the plaintifff fails to appear on the trial, and the
defendant appears and asks for the dismissal. 4th. By .the court, when upon the trial, and before the final submission
of the case, the plaintifff abandons it.

5th. By the court, upon motion of the defendant, when upon the trial
the plaintifff fails to prove a sufficient case for the jury. The dismissal
mentioned in the first two subdivisions shall be' made by an entry in the
clerk’s register. Judgment may thereupon be entered accordingly.

SEC. 151. In every case other than those mentioned in the. last section,
the judgment shall be rendered on the merits.

Judgment upon Failure to Answer.

SEC. 152. Judgment may be bad, if the defendant fail to answer the
complaint, as follows:

lst. In an action arising upon contract for the recovery of money or
damages only, if no answer has been filed with the clerk of the court within
the time specified in the summons, or such further time as may have been
granted; the clerk, upon application of the plaintifff, shall enter the default
of the defendant, and immediately thereafter enter judgment for the
amount specified in the summons, including the costs, against the defendant, or against one or more of several defendants, in the cases provided
for in section thirty-two. ‘ '

2d. In other actions, if. no answer has been filed with the clerk of the
court within the time specified in the summons, or such further time as
may have been granted; the clerk shall enter the default of the defendant,
and thereafter the plaintifff may apply at the first or any subsequent term
of the court for the relief demanded in the complaint. If the taking of an
account or the proof of any fact be necessary to enable the court .to give
judgment or to carry the judgment into effect, the court may take the
account or hear the prbof, or may, in its discretion, order a reference for
that purpose; and where the action is for the recovery of damages in

I

 

whole or in part, the court may order the damages to be assessed by a
jury; or if, to determine the amount of damages, the examination of along
account be necessary, by a reference as above provided. .
3d. In actions where the service of summons was by publication, the
plaintiii', upon the expiration of the time designated in the order of publication, may, upon proof of the publication, and that no answer has been
filed, apply for judgment, and the court shall thereupon require proof to be
I made of the demand mentioned in the complaint; and if the defendant be
not a resident of the Territory, shall require the plaintifff or his agent to be
examined on oath respecting any payments that have been made to the
plaintifff, or to any one for his use, on account of such demands, and may
render judgment for the amount which he .is entitled to recover.

SEC. 153. An issue arises when a fact or conclusion of law is maintained
by the one party and is controverted by the other. Issues are of two kinds:

1. Of law; and
2. Of fact.

SEC. 154. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the complaint, or
to some part thereof.

SEC. 155. An issue of fact arises:

1. Upon a material allegation in the complaint, controverted by the

answer; or
2. Upon new matter 1n the answer.

SEC. 156. An issue of law shall be tried by the court, unless it be
referred, upon consent, as provided in this chapter.

SEC. 157. An issue of fact shall be tried by a jury, unless a jury trial is
waived or a' reference be ordered, as provided in this chapter. Where
there are issues both of law and fact to the same complaint, the issues of ’
law shall be first disposed of.

SEC. 158. The clerk shall enter causes upon the calendar of the court
according to the date of the issue. Causes once placed on the calendar for
a general or special term, if not tried or heard at such term, shall remain
upon the calendar from court to court until finally disposed of.

SEC. 159. Either party may bring the issue to trial or to a hearing; and
in the absence of the adverse party, unless the court for good cause otherwise direct, may proceed with his case, and take a dismissal of the action
or a verdict or judgment, as the case may require.

SEC. 160. A motion to postpone a trial on'the ground of the absence of .
evidence, shall only be made upon aliidavit, showmg the materiality of the
evidence expected to be obtained, and that due diligence has been used to
procure it. The court may also require the moving party to state, upon
aiiidavit, the evidence which he expects to obtain; and if the adverse party

thereupon admit that suCh evidence would be given, and that it be considered as actually given on the trial, or offered and overruled as improper,
the trial shall not be postponed: Provided, that the party obtaining a
postponement of a trial in any court of record shall also, if required by the
adverse party, consent that the testimony of any witness of such adverse
party who is in attendance be taken by deposition before a judge or clerk
of the court in which the case is pending, or before a notary public to be
named by the court, which shall accordingly be done; and the testimony
so taken may be read on the trial with the same effect and subject to the
same objections as if the witnesses were produced.

SEC. 161. When the action is called for trial by jury, the clerk shall prepare separate ballots containing the names of the jurors summoned who
have appeared and not been'excused, and deposit them in a box. He shall
then draw from the box twelve names, and the ersons Whose names are
drawn shall constitute the jury. If the ballots ecome exhausted before
the jury is complete, or if from any cause a juror or jurors be excused or
discharged, the sheriff shall summon, under the direction of the court, from
the ’citizens of the county "and not from bystanders, so many qualified persons as may be necessary to complete the jury. The. jury shall consist of
twelve persons, unless the parties consent to a less number. The parties
may consent to any number not less than three. Such consent shall be
entered by the clerk in the minutes of the trial.

SEC. 162. As soon as the jury is completed, an oath or affirmation shall
be administered to the jurors, in substance that they each of them will
well and truly try the matter in issue between , the plaintifff, and

, the defendant, and a true verdict render according to the evidence.

SEC. 163. Either party may challenge the jurors, but when there are
several parties on either side, they shall join in a Challenge before it can be
made. The challenges shall be to individual jurors, and shall either be
peremptory or for cause. Each 'party shall be entitled to four peremptory
challenges. \ '

SEC. 164. Challenges for cause may be "taken on one or more of the
following grounds:

lst. A want of any of the qualifications prescribed by statute to render a
person competent as a juror;

2d. Consanguinity or ailinity within the third-degree to either party;

3d. Standing in the relation of guardian and ward, master and servant,
employer and clerk, or principal and agent to either party; or being a
member of the family of either party; or a partner in business with either
party ; or being security on any bond or obligation for either party ;

4th. Having served as a juror or been a witness on a previous trial
between the same parties for the same cause of action;

5th. Interest on the part of the juror in the event of the action, or in the
main question involved in the action ;

6th. Having formed or expressed an unqualified opinion or belief as to
the merits of the action;  

7th. The existence of a state of mind in‘ the juror evincing enmity.
against or‘bias to either party. ‘ 

SEC. 165. Challenges for cause shall be tried by the court. The juror
challenged, and any other person, may be examined as a witness .on the .
trial of the challenge.

SEC. 166. If, after the empannelling of the jury, and before verdict, a ,
juror become sick, so as to be unable to perform his duty, the'court may
order him to be discharged. In that case the trial may proceed with the
other jurors, or a new jury may be sworn, and the trial begin anew; or
the jury may be discharged, and a new jury then or afterwards empannelled.

SEC. 167. In charging the jury, the court shall state to them all matters
of law which it thinks necessary for their information in giving their
verdict ; and if it state the testimony of the case, it shall also inform the
jury that they are the exclusive judges of all questions of fact. The court
shall furnish to either party at the time, upon request, a statement in writing of the points of law contained in the charo'e; or shall sign at the time
a statement of such pomts prepared and subnutted by the counsel of elther

party.

SEC. 168. After hearing the charge, the jury may either decide in court
or retire for deliberation. If they retire, they shall be kept together in a
room provided for them, or some other convenient place, under the charge
of one or more officers, until they agree upon their verdict or are discharged by the court. The officer shall, to the utmost of his ability, keep
the jury together, separate from other persons; he shall not suffer any
communication to be made to them, or make any himself, unless by order
of the court, except to ask them if they have agreed upon their verdict ;
and he shall not, before the verdict is rendered, communicate to any person A
the state of their deliberations or the verdict agreed upon.

SEC. 169. Upon retiring for deliberation, the jury may take with them all
papers (except depositions) which have been received as evidence in the .
cause, or copies of such papers as ought not, in the opinion of the court,.
to be taken from the person having them in possession; and they may also
take with them notes of the testimony or other proceedings on the trial
taken by themselves, or any of them; but none taken by any other per.
son.

SEC. 170. After the jury have retired for deliberation, if there be a disc
agreement between them as to any part of the testimony, 01. if they desire,“
to be informed of any point of law arising in the cause, they may require
the ofii'cer to conduct them into court. Upon their being brought. into
court, the information required shall be given in the presence l'of, or after
notice to, the parties or counsel.

SEC. 171. In all cases where a jury are discharged or prevented from
giving a verdict by reason of accident or other cause during the progress
of the trial, or after the cause is submitted to them, the action may be
again tried immediately, or at a future time, as the court shall direct.

SEC. 172. While the jury are absent, the court may adjourn from time
to time in reSpect to other business; but it shall nevertheless be deemed
open for every purpose Connected with the cause submitted to the jury,
until a verdict is rendered or the jury discharged. The court may direct
the jury to bring in a sealed verdict, at the opening of the court, in case of
an agreement during a recess or adjournment for the day. A iinal adjourn- '
ment of the court for the term shall discharge the jury.

SEC. 173. When the jury have agreed upon their verdict, they shall be
conducted into court by the oiiicer having them in charge. Their names
shall be then called, and they shall be asked by the court or the clerk whether
they have agreed upon their verdict; and if the foreman answer in the
r affirmative, they shall, on being required, declare the same.

SEC. 174. If the verdict be informal or insuiiicient, in not covering the
whole issue or issues submitted, the verdict may be corrected by the jury,
under the advice of the court, or the jury may be again sent out.

SEC. 175. When the verdict is given, and is not informal or insuihcient,
“the clerk shall immediately record it in full in the minutes, and shall, read
it to the jury, and inquire of them whether it be their verdict. If any
juror disagree, the jury shall be again sent out; but if no disagreement be
expressed, the verdict shall be complete, and the jury shall be discharged
from the case. r

SEC. 176. The verdict of a jury is either general or special. A general
verdict is that by which they pronounce generally upon all or any of the
issues, either in favor of the plaintifff or defendant; a special verdict is that
by which the jury find the facts only, leaving the judgment to the court.
'The special verdict shall present the conclusions of fact as established by
the ev1dence, and not the evidence to prove them; and those conclusions
of fact shall be so presented as that nothing shall remain to the court but
to draw from them conclusions of law.

SEC. 177. The court may instruct the jury to find a special verdict; when
not so instructed, the verdict shall be general.

SEC. 178. When a verdict is found for the plaintifff in an action for the
recovery of money, or for the defendant when a counterclaim for the
recovery of money is established exceeding the amount of the plaintifff ’8
7 claim as established, the jury shall also find the amount of the recovery.

SEC. 179. In an action, for the recovery of speciiic personal property, if
the property has not been delivered to the plaintifff, or the defendant, by
his answer, claim a return thereof, the jury, if their verdict be in favor of
the plaintifff, or if, being in favor of the defendant, they also find that he is
entitled to a return thereof, shall find the value of the property, and may
at the same time assess the damages, if any are,claimed in the complaint
or answer, which the prevailing party has sustained by reason of the taking
or detention of ' such property.

SEC. 180. Upon receiving a verdict, an entry shall be made by the clerk

 

in the minutes ‘of the court, specifying the time of trial, the names of the
jurors and witnesses, and the verdict; and where a special verdict is found,
either the judgment rendered thereon, or if the case be reserved for argument or further consideration, the order thus reserving it.

SEC. 181. Trial by jury may be waived by the several parties to an issue
of fact, in actions arising on contract; and with the assent of the court in
other actions, in the manner following: '

.1 st. By failing to appear at the trial;

2d. By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with the clerk;

3d. By oral consent in open court, entered in the minutes. The court
may prescribe by rule what shall be deemed a waiver in other cases.

SEC. 182. Upon the trial of an issue of fact by the court, its decision shall
be given in wmting, and filed With the clerk, within ten days after the trial
took place. In giving the decision, the facts found and the conclusions of
law s all be separately stated. Judgment upon the decision shall be entered
accordingly. '

SEC. 183. On a judgment upon an issue of law, if the taking of an account
be necessary to enable the court to complete the judgment, a reference may
be ordered. ‘ 0f References, and Trial by Referees.

SEC. 184. A reference may be ordered upon the agreement of the parties
filed with the clerk, or entered in the minutes :

1. To try any or all of the issues in an action or proceeding, whether of
fact or of law; and to report a judgment thereon;
_2. To ascertain a fact necessary to enable the court to proceed and
determine the case. .

SEC. 185. When the parties do not consent, the court may, upon the
application of either, or of its own motion, direct a reference in the following cases: ‘

1. When the trial of an issue of fact requires the examination of a long
account on either side ; in Which case the referees may be directed to hear
and decide the whole issue, or report upon any specific question of fact
involved therein. ~

2. When the taking of an account is necessary for the information of the
court before judgment, or for carrying a judgment or order into eifect.

3. When a question of fact, other than upon the pleadings, arises upon
motion or otherwise, in any stage of the action; or,

4. When it is necessary for the information of the court in a special
proceeding.

SEC. 186. A reference may be ordered to any person or persons, not
exceedlng three, agreed upon by the parties. If the parties do not agree,

 

the court or judge shall appoint one or more referees, not exceeding three,
who reside in the county in Which the action or proceeding is triable, and
against whom there is no legal objection.

SEC. 187. Either party may object to the appointment of any person as
referee, on one or more of the fol owing grounds:

1. A want of any of the qualifications prescribed by statute to render a
person competent as a juror.

2. Consanguinity or atiinity within the third degree to either party.

3. Standing in the relation of guardian and ward, master and servant,
employer and clerk, or principal and agent to either party; or being a
member of the family of either party; or a partner in business with either
party; or being security on any bond or obligation for either party. .

4. Having served as a juror, or been a witness on any trial between the
same parties for the same cause "of action. ‘

5. Interest on the part of such person in the event of the action, or in
the main question involved in the action. ‘

6. Having formed or expressed an unqualified opinion or belief as to the
merits of the action.

7. The existence of a state of mind in such person ev'incing enmity
against or bias to either party: I

SEC. 188. The objections taken to the appointment of any person as
referee shall be heard and disposed of by the court. Aiiidavits may be
read, and any person examined as a witness, as to such objections.

SEC. 189. The referees shall make their report within ten days after the
testimony before them is closed.‘ Their report upon the whole‘ issue shall
‘stand as the decision of the court, and upon filing the report with the clerk
.of the court, judgment may be entered therein in the same manner as if
the action had been tried by the court. The decision of the referees may
be excepted to and reviewed in- like manner as if made by the court.
When the reference is to report the facts, the report shall have the effect
of a special verdict.

SEC. 190. An exception is an objeCtion taken at the trial to a decision
upon a matter of law, whether such trial he by jury, court, or referees, and
whether the decision be made during the formation of a jury, or in the
admission of evidence, or in the charge to a jury, or at any other time
from the calling of the action for trial to the rendering of the verdict or
decision. But no exception shall be regarded on a motion for a new trial,
or on an appeal, unless the exception be material, and affect the substantial
rights of the parties. ‘ ‘ '

SEC. 191. The point of the exception shall be particularly stated, and
may be delivered in writing to the judge, or if the party require it, shall be
written down by the clerk; when delivered in writing, or written down by
the clerk, it shall be made conformable to the truth or be at the time corrected until it is so made conformable. When not delivered in Writing, or

 

’ Written down as above, it may be entered in the judge’s minutes and afterwards settled in a statement of the case, as provided in this chapter.

SEC. 192. No particular form of exception shall be required. The objec-tion shall be stated, with so much of the evidence or other matter as is
necessary to explain it, but no more, and the whole as briefly as possible.

SEC. 193. When a cause has been tried by the court, or by referees, and
the decisiOn or report is not made immediately after the closing of the testimony, the decision or report shall be deemed excepted to, on motion for a

new trial or on appeal, without any special notice that an exception is
taken thereto. ‘ '

SEC. 194. A new trial is a reexamination of an issue of fact in the same
court, after a trial and decision by a jury, court, or referees.

SEC. 195. The former verdict or other decision may be vacated and a
new trial granted, on the application'of the party aggrieved, for any of the
following causes materially affecting the substantial rights of such party:

1. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury, or adverse party,
or any order of the court, or abuse of discretion by which either party was
prevented from having a fair trial.

2. Misconduct of the jury.

3. Accident or surprise ' which ordinary prudence could not have
guarded against.

4. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party making the application, which he could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and
produced at the trial, 5. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under
of passion or prejudice; 6. Insuliiciency of the evidence to justify the verdict, or other decision;
or that it is against law ; '

7. Error in law occurring at the trial, and excepted to by the party
making the application.

SEC. 196. When the a plication is made for a cause mentioned in the
first, second, third, and ourth subdivisions of the last section, it shall be
made upon aliidavit; for any other cause, it shall be made upon a statement
prepared as provided in the next section.

SEC. 197. The party intending to move forla new trial shall give notice
of the same within two days after the trial, and shall, within five days after
such notice, or such other time as the court shall direct, prepare and .file
with the clerk the-aliidavit required by the last section, or a statement of
the grounds upon which he intends to rely. If no aiiidavit or statement
be filed within five days after the notice, the right to move for a new trial
shall be deemed waived. The statement shall contain so much of the
' evidence, or reference thereto, as may be necessary to explain the grounds
taken, and no more. Such statement, when containing any portion of the
evidence of the case, and not agreed to by the adverse party, shall be
settled by the judge upon notice. On the argument, reference may also be

 

made to the pleadings, depositions, and documentary evidence on file, and
to the minutes of the court. If the application be made upon affidavits
filed,the adverse party may use counter-affidavits on 'the hearing. Any.
counter—affidavits shall be filed with the clerk, one day at least previous to
the hearing. ° 

SEC. 198. The application for a new trial shall be made at the earliest
period practicable, after filing the~ aiiidavit or statement.
SEC. 199. When trial by jury has been had, judgment shall be entered
by the clerk, in conformity to the verdict, within twenty-four hours after
the rendition of the verdict, unless the court order the case to be reserved
for argument or further consideration, or grant a stay of proceedings.

SEC. 200. When the case is reserved for argument or further consideration, as mentioned in the last section, it may be brought by either party
before the court for argument, as the court shall direct.

, 7

SEC. 201. If a counterclaim, established at the trial, exceed the
plaintifff ’s demand so established, judgment for the defendant shall be
given for the excess; or if it appear that the defendant is entitled to any
other affirmative relief, judgment shall be given accordingly.

t

SEC. 202. In an action to recover the possession of personal property,
judgment for the plaintifff may be for the possession or the value thereof,
in case a delivery cannot be had, and damages for the detention. If the
property have been delivered to the plaintifff, and the defendant claim a
return thereof, judgment for the defendant may be for a return of the
property, or the value thereof in case a return cannot be had, and damages
for taking and Withholding the same.

SEC. 203. The clerk shall keep among the records of the court a .book
for the entry of judgments, to be called the “judgment-book,” in which
each 'udgment shall be entered, and shall specify clearly the relief granted,
or ot er determination of the action. . ‘

SEC. 204. If a party die after a verdict or decision upon any issue of
fact, and before a judgment, the court may nevertheless render judgment
thereon. Such judgment shall not be a lien on the real property of the
deceased party, but shall be payable in the course of administration on his.
estate. ' '

SEC. 205. Immediately after entering the judgment, the clerk shall
attach together and file the following papers, which shall constitute the
judgment-roll : . . ‘

1st. In case the complaint be not answered by any defendant, the
' summons, with the affidavit or proof of service, and the complaint, with a
memorandum endorsed on the complaint, that the default of the defendant
in not answering was entered, and a copyof the judgment;

2d. In ,all' other cases, the summons, pleadings, and a copy of the
judgment, and any orders relating to a change of the parties.

 

SEC. 206. Immediately after filing a judgment-roll, the clerk shall make
the proper entries of the judgment, under appropriate heads, in the docket
kept by him; and from the time the judgment is docketed, it shall become
a lien upon all the real property of the judgment debtor, not exempt from
execution, in the county, owned by him at the time, or which he may
afterwards acquire, until the said lien expires. The lien shall continue for
two years, unless the judgment be previously satisfied.

SEC. 207. The docket mentioned in the last section is a book which the
clerk shall keep in his oilice, with each page divided into eight columns,
and headed as follows: Judgment debtors; judgment creditors; judgment;
time of entry; where entered in judgment-book; appeals when taken;
judgment of appellate court; satisfaction of judgment, when entered.
If judgment be for the recovery of money or damages, the amount shall be
stated in the docket under the head of judgment; if the judgment be for
any other relief, a memorandum of the ‘general character of the relief

granted shall be stated. The names of the defendants shall be entered in
the docket in alphabetical order.

SEC. 208. The docket kept by the clerk shall be open at all times during
oilice hours for the inspection of the public without charge; and it shall

be the duty of the clerk to arrange the several dockets kept by him in such
a manner as’to facilitate their inspection. ~

SEC. 209. A transcri t of the original docket certified by the clerk may
be filed with the recor er of any other county, and from the time of the
filing the judgment shall become a lien upon all the real property of the

judgment debtor, not exempt from execution in such county, owned by him
at the time, or which he may afterwards acquire, until the said lien expires.

The lien shall continue for two years, unless the judgment be previously
satisfied.

SEC. 210. Satisfaction of a judgment may be entered in the clerk’s docket
upon an execution returned satisfied, or upon an acknowledgment of satisfaction filed with the clerk, made in the manner of an acknowledgment of
a conveyance of real property, by the judgment creditor; or within one
year after the judgment by the attorney, unless a revocation of his authority be previously filed. Whenever a judgment shall be satisfied in fact,
otherwise than upon an execution, it shall be the duty of the party or
attorney to give such acknowledgment, and upon motion the court

may compel it, orpmay order the entry of satisfaction to be made; without it. .

SEC. 211. The party in whose favor judgment is given may, at any time
within five years after the entry thereof, issue a writ of execution for its
enforcement, as prescribed in this chapter.

SEC. 212. The writ of execution shall be issued in the name of the Territory, sealed with the seal of the court, and subscribed by the clerk, and‘
shall be directed to the sheriff, and shall intelligibly refer to the judgment,
stating the court, the county where the judgment-roll is filed, the name of
the parties, the judgment, and if it be for money, the amount thereof, and

 

the amount actually due thereon, and shall require the sherif substantially
as follows:

1. If it be against the property of the judgment debtor, it shall require
the sheriff to satisfy the judgment, with mterest, out of the personal pro_ perty of such debtor, and if sufficient personal property cannot be found,
then out of his real property; or if the judgment be a lien upon real
property, then out of the real property belonging to him on the day when
the judgment was docketed, or if the execution be issued to a county
other than the one in which the judgment was recovered, on the day, when
the transcript of the docket was filed in the oilice of the recorder of such
county, stating such day, or at anytime thereafter;

2. If it be against real or personal property in the hands of the personal
representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants of real property, or trustees,
it shall require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment, with interest, out of such
Property; . ' '

3. If it be against the person of the judgment debtor, it shall require the
sheriff to arrest such debtor and commit him to the jail of the county, until
he pay the judgment,,.with interest, or be discharged according to law;

4. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or personal property,
it shall require the sheriff to deliver the possession of the same, particularly
describin it, the party entitled thereto, and may at the same time require
the sherig to satisfy any costs, damages, rents, or profits recovered by the
same judgment, out of the personal property of the party against whom it
was rendered, and the value of the property for which the judgment was
recovered, to be specified therein, if a delivery thereof cannot be had; and
if suilicient personal property cannot be found, then out of real property, as
provided in the first subdivision of this section.

SEC. 213. When a writ of execution is issued on a judgment recovered
against two or more persons, in an action upon a joint contract, in which
action all the defendants were not served with summons or did not appear,
it shall direct the sheriii' to satisfy the judgment out of the joint property
of all the defendants, and the individual property only of the defendants
who were served or who appeared in the action. In other respects, the
writ shall contain the directions specified in the first subdivision of the last section. \

SEC. 214. The execution may be made returnable at any time not less
than ten nor more than sixty days after its receipt by the sheriff, to the
clerk with whom the judgment-roll is filed.

SEC. 215. Where a judgment requires the payment of money, or the
delivery of real or personal pr0perty, the same shall be enforced in those
respects by execution. Where it requires the performance of any other
act, a certified copy of the judgment may be served upon the party
against whom it is given, or upon the person or oiiicer who is required
thereby, or by law, to obey the same, and his obedience thereto enforced.

SEC. 216. After the lapse of five years from the entry of judgment, an
execution shall be issued only by leave of the court, on motion. Such leave
shall not be given unless it be established by the oath of the party, or other
proof; that the judgment, or some part thereof, remains unsatisfied and due.

SEC. 217. Notwithstanding the death of a party after the judgment,

 

‘ execution thereon against his property may, upon permission granted by the
probate court, he issued and executed in the same manner and With the
same effect as if he were still living.

SEC. 218. Where the execution is against the property of the judgment
debtor, it may be issued to the sheriff of any county in the Territory.
Where it requires the delivery of real or personal property, it shall be issued
to the sheriff of the county Where the property, or some part thereof, is
situated. Executions may be issued at the same time to different counties.

SEC. 219. All roperty, real and personal, of the judgment debtor, not
exempt by law, s all be liable to execution. Until a levy, property shall '
not be affected by the execution. ‘

SEC. 220. If the property levied on be claimed by a third person as his property, the sheriff shall summon from his county six persons qualified as jurors
between the parties, to try the validity of the claim. He shall also give
notice of the claim, and of the time of trial to the plaintifff, who may appear
and contest the claim before the jury. The jury and the witnesses shall be
sworn by the sheriff, and if their verdict be in favor of the claimant, the
sheriff may relinquish the levy, unless the judgment creditor give him a sufi
iicient indemnity for proceeding thereon. The fees of the jury, the ‘sherili',
and the witnesses, shall be paid by the claimant, if the verdict be against
him ; otherwise, by the plaintifff. On the trial the defendant and the claimant may be examined by the plaintifff as witnesses. '

SEC. 221. The property mentioned in chapter thirty-seven of this code,
entitled “ Of Exemption,” shall be exempt from such execution, except in
the manner in said chapter specified, and as to all property so exempt, the
proceedings on such execution shall be in accordance with the provismns of
said chapter.

SEC. 222. The sheriff shall execute the writ against the property of the
judgment debtor, by levying on a sufficient amount of property, if there be
sufficient; collecting or selling the things in action, and selling the other
property, and paying to the plaintifff or his attorney so much of the
proceeds as will satisfy the judgment, or depositing the amount with
the clerk of the court; any excess in the proceeds over the 'udgment and
the sheriff’s-fees shall be returned to the judgment debtor. hen there is
more property of the judgment debtor than is sufiicient to satisfy the judgment and the sheriff’s fees within the view of the sheriff, he shall levy only
on such part of the property as the judgment debtor may indicate: Provided, that the judgment debtor be present at, and indicate at the time of
the levy such part; and provided, that the property indicated he amply sufiicient to satisfy such judgment and fees.

SEC. 223. Before the sale of property on execution, notice thereof shall
be given as follows :

1st. In case of perishable property, by posting written notice of the time
and place of sale in three public places of the precinct or county where
the sale is to take place, for such a time as may be reasonable, considering
the character and condition of the property.

2d. In case of other personal property, by posting a similar noticein three

 

public places of the precinct or county where the sale is to take place, not
.less than five nor more than ten days successively;

3d. In, case of real property, by posting a similar notice, particularly
describing the property, for twenty days successively, in three public places
of the precinct or county where the property is situated, and also where the
property is to be sold ; and publishing a copy thereof once a week for the
same period in a newspaper in the county, if there .be one.

SEC. 224. An officer selling without the notice prescribed by the last section, shall forfeit five hundred dollars to the aggrieved party, in addition to
his actual damages; and a person willfully taking down or defacing the
notice posted, if done. before the sale or the satisfaction of the judgment (if
the judgment be satisfied before sale), shall forfeit five hundred dollars.

SEC. 225. All sales of property under execution shall be made at auction
to the highest bidder, and shall be made between the hours of nine in the
morning and live in the afternoon; after sufficient preperty has been sold
to satisfy the execution, no more shall be sold. Neither the oiiicer holding
the execution nor his deputy shall become a purchaser, or be interested in
any purchase at such sale. When the sale is of personal property capable
of manual delivery, it shall be within view of those who attend the sale, and
be sold in such arcels as are likely to bring the highest price; and when

the sale is of rea property, and consisting of severalkknown lots or. parcels, _ .

they shall be sold separately; or when a portion of such real property is
claimed by a third person, and he requires it to be sold separately, such
portion shall be thus sold. The judgment debtor, if present at the sale,
may also direct the order in which property, real or personal, shall be sold, ‘
when such property consists of several known lots or parcels, or of articles
which can be sold to advantage separately; and the sheriff shall be bound
to follow such directions. ' A

SEC. 226. If a purchaser refuse to pay the amount bid by him for property struck off to him at a sale under execution, the officer may again sell
the property at any time to the highest bidder, and if any loss be occasioned
thereby, the officer may recover the amount of such loss, with costs, by
motion upon previous notice of five days before any court, or before any
justice of the peace, if the same shall not exceed his jurisdiction.

SEC. 227. Such court or justice shall proceed in a summary manner and
give judgment, and issue execution therefore forthwith, but the defendant
may claim a jury. And the same proceedings may be had against any subsequent purchaser .who shall refuse to pay, and the officer may, in his dis- ‘
cretion, thereafter reject the bid of any‘person so refusing.

SEC. 228. The two preceding sections shall not be construed to make the
officer liable. for any more than the amount bid by the Second or subsequent
.purchaser, and the amount collected from the purchaser refusing to

P3)“

SEC. 229. When the purchaser of any personal property capable of
manual delivery shall pay the purchase money, the oilicer making the sale
shall deliver to the purchaser the property, and if desired, shall execute and
deliver to him a, certificate of the sale and payment. Such certificate shall
convey to the purchaser all the right, title, and interest which the debtor
had in and to such property on the day the execution was levied.  

SEC. 230. When the purchaser of any personal property not capable of
manual delivery shall pay the purchase money, the officer making the sale
shall execute and deliver to the purchaser a certificate of sale and payment.
Such certificate shall convey to the purchaser all right, title, and interest
which the debtor had in and to such property on the day the execution was
levied. '

SEC. 231. Upon a sale of real property, when the estate is less than a
leasehold of two years’ unexpired term, the sale shall be absolute. In all
other cases, the real property shall be subject to redemption, as provided
in this chapter. The oiiicer shall give to the purchaser a certificate of the
sale, contaming - '

1. A particular description of the real property sold;

2. The price bid for each distinct lot or parcel ;

,3. The whole price paid ;

4. When subject to redemption, it shall he so stated, a du licate of which
certificate shall be liled by the oiiicer with the recorder of the county.

SEC. 232. Property sold subject to redemption, as rovided in the last section, or any art sold separately, may be redeeme in the manner hereinafter provide by the following persons, or their successors in interest :1. The judgment debtor, or his successor in interest, in the whole or any
part of the property. ' '

2. A creditor, having alien by judgment or mortgage on the property
sold, or on some share or part t ereof, subsequent to that on which the
property was sold. The persons mentioned in the ‘ second subdivision of
this section are, in this chapter, termed redemptioners.

SEC. 233. The judgment debtor, or a redem tioner, may redeem the
property from the purchaser within six months a r the sale, on paying the
purchaser the amount of his purchases with eighteen per cent. thereon in
addition, together with the amount of any assessments or taxes which the
purchaser may have paid thereon after the purchase, and interest on such
amount; and if the purchaser be also a creditor, having a lien prior to that
of the redemptioner, the amount of such lien with interest.

SEC. 234. If the property be so redeemed by a redemptioner, either the
judgment debtor or another redemptioner may, within sixty days after the
last redemption, again redeem it from the last redemptioner, on paying the
sum paid on such last redemption, with six per cent. thereon in addition,
and the amount of any assessments or taxes which the said last redemptioner may have paid thereon, after the redemption by him, with interest
on such amount; and the amount of any lien held by said last redemptioner
prior to his own, with interest. The property may be again, and as often '
as the debtor or any redemptioner is so disposed, redeemed from any previous redem tioner, within sixty days after the last redemption, on paying
the sum pai on the last previous redemption, With six per cent. thereon in
addition, and the amount of any assessments or taxes which the said last
previous redem tioner paid after the redemption by him, with interest
thereon; and t e amount of any liens held by the said last redemptioner,
previous to his own, with interest. Notice of redemption shall be given to
the sheriff. If no redemption be made within six months after the sale, the
purchaser shall be entitled to a conveyance; or if so redeemed, whenever

 

sixty days have elapsed, and no.0ther redemption has been made, and
notice thereof given, the time for redemption shall have expired, and, the
last redemptioner shall be entitled to a sheriff’s deed. f the debtor
redeem at any time before the time for redemption expires, the en'ects of
the sale shall be terminated, and he be restored to his estate.

SEC. 235. The payment mentioned in the last two sections may be made
to the purchaser or redemptioner, as the case 'may be, or for him to the
officer who made the sale ; and a tender of the money shall be equivalent
to payment. '

SEC. 236. A redemptioner shall produce to the oilicer or person from
whom he seeks to redeem, and serve with his notice to the sheriff :

1. A copy of the docket of the judgment under which he claims the right
to redeem, certified by the clerk‘ of the court where the judgment is docketed ; or if he redeem upon a mortgage or other lien, a note of the record
thereof Certified by the recorder.

2. A copy of any assignment necessary to establish his claim, verified by
the affidavit of himself or of a subscribing witness thereto; and

3. An affidavit by himself or his agent, showing the amount then actually due on the lien.

SEC. 237. Until the expiration of the time allowed for redemption, the
court may restrain the commission of waste on the property, by order
granted with or without notice, on the application .of the purchaser or the
judgment creditor. But it shall not be deemed waste for the person in

possession of theproperty at the time of sale, or entitled to possession afterwards during-the period allowed for redemption, to continue to use it in
the same manner in which it was previously used; or to use it in the ordinary course of husbandry; or to make the necessary repairs of buildings
thereon; or to use wood or timber on the property therefore; or for the
repair of fences; or for fuel in the family—while he occupies the property.

SEC. 238. The purchaser from the time of the sale until a redem tion,
and a redemptioner from the time of his redemption until another re emp:
tion, shall be entitled to ‘receive from the tenant in possession the rents of
the property sold, or the value of the use and occupation thereof.

SEC. 239. If the purchaser of real property sold on execution, or his successor in interest, be evicted therefrom in consequence of irregularity in the
proceedings concerning the sale, or of the reversal or discharge of the judgment, he may recover the price paid, with interest, from the judgment
creditor. If the recovery be in consequence of the irregularity in the proceedings concerning the sale, the judgment may, by order of the court,
upon notice to the judgment debtor, be revived, and a new execution issued
for the price paid on the sale, with interest. Such judgment shall be a lien
on the real estate of the judgment debtor only from the time of its revival. '

SEC. 240. When an execution against property of the judgment debtor,
or of any one of several debtors in the same judgment, issued to the sheriff
of the county where he resides, or if he do not reside in this Territory, to

 

the sheriff of the county where the judgment-roll is filed, is returned unsa- ~
tislied in whole or in part, the judgment creditor, at any time after such
return is made, shall be entitled to an order from the judge of the court,
requiring such judgment debtor to appear and answer concerning his
property before such judge, or a referee appointed by him, at a time and
place specified in the order ; but no judgment debtor shall be required to
attend before a judge or referee out of the county in which he resides,
when proceedings are taken under the provisions of this chapter.

SEC. 241. After the iSSuing of an execution against property, and upon
proof by 'affidavit of a party, or otherwise to the satisfaction of the court
or a judge thereof, that any judgment debtor has property which he
unjustly refuses to apply towards the satiSfaction of the judgment, such .
court or judge may, .by an order, require the judgment debtor to appear at
a specified time and place before such judge, or a referee appointed by
him, to answer concerning the same; and such proceedings may thereupon
be had for the application of the property of the judgment debtor towards
the satisfaction of the judgment, as are provided upon the return of an
execution. '

SEC. 242. After“ the'issuing of an execution against preperty, any person
" indebted to the judgment debtor may pay to the sheriff the amount of his
debt, or so much thereof as may be necesSary to satisf the execution; and
the sheriff’s receipt shall be a sufficient discharge for t e amount so paid.

SEC. 243. After the issuing or return of an execution against property of
the judgment debtor, or of any one of the several debtors in the same judgment, and upon proof by aiiidavit or otherwise to the satisfaction of the
judge that any person or corporation has property of such judgment debtor,
or is indebted to him in an amount exceeding fifty dollars, the judge may,
by an order, require such persOnor corporation, or any officer or member
thereof, to appear at a specified time and place before him, or a referee
appointed by him, and answer concerning the same. '

SEC. 244. Witnesses may be required to appear and testify before the
judge or referee upon any proceeding under this chapter in the same manner as upon the trial of an issue.

SEC. 245. The judge or referee may order any property of the judgment
debtor, not exempt from execution, in the hands of such debtor or any
other person, or due to the judgment debtor, to be applied towards the

satisfaction of the judgment, exce t that the earnings of the debtor for his
‘ personal services, at any time wit in thirty days next preceding the order,
shall not be so applied when it shall be made to appear by the debtor’s
affidavit, or otherwise, that such earnings are necessary for the use of ‘a‘
family supported wholly or partly by his labor.

SEC. 246. If it appear that a person or corporation alleged to have property of the judgment debtor, or indebted to him, claims an interest in the '
property adverse to him, or denies the debt, the court or judge may authorme, by an order made to that effect, the judgment creditor to institute an
action against such person or corporation for the recovery of such interest
or debt; and the court or judge may, by order, forbid a transfer or Other
disposition of such interest or debt, until an action can be commenced and
prosecuted to judgment. Such order may be modified or vacated by the 

judge granting the same, or the court in which the action is brought, at
any time upon such terms as may be just. In addition to the remedy provided in this and the six precedin sections, the plaintifff in any such execution may proceed a ainst the de endants therein and other parties by ori' a1 complaint in t e nature of a creditor’s bill in equity, to obtain satisaction of his execution after the same shall have been returned unsatistied
in whole or in part, as the case may be.

SEC. 247. If any. person, party, or Witnesses disobey an order of the
referee, properly made in the proceedings before him under this chapter,
he may be punished by the court or judge ordering the reference, for a contempt. '

Actions in Particular Cases.
Actions for the Foreclosure of Mortgages.

SEC. 248. In an action for the foreclosure or satisfaction of a mortgage
of real property, or the satisfaction of a lien or encumbrance upon property,
real or personal, the court shall have power by its judgment to direct a sale
of the property, or any part of it, and to direct the application of the proceeds to the payment of the amount due on the mortgage, lien, or encumbrance, with costs, and execution for the balance.

SEC. 249. If there be surplus money remaining after payment of the
amount due on the mortgage, lien, or encumbrance, with costs, the court
may cause the same to be paid to the person entitled to it, and in the
meantime may direct it to be deposited in court.

SEC. 250. If the debt for which the mortgage, lien, or encumbrance is
held, be not all due, so soon as sufficient of the property has been sold to
pay the amount due, with costs, the sale shall cease; and afterwards, as
often as more becomes due for principal or interest, the court may, on
motion, order more to be sold. But if the property cannot be sold in
portions without injury to the parties, the whole 'may be ordered to be
sold in the first instance, and the entire debt and costs paid, there being
a rebate of interest where such rebate is proper.
SEC. 251. Anything which is injurious to health, or indecent or offensive
to-the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property,.is a nuisance and
.the subject of an action. Such action may be brought by any person whose
property is injurioust affected, or whose personal enjoyment is lessened by
the nuisance; and by the judgment the nuisance may be enjoined or
abated, as well as damages recovered.

SEC. 252. If a guardian, tenant for life or years, joint tenant, or tenant
in common of real property, commit waste thereon, any person aggrieved
by the waste may bring an action against him therefore, in which action
there may be judgment for treble damages. '

SEC. 253. Any person who shall cut down or carry oii‘ any wood or
underwood, tree or timber, or girdle or otherwise injure any tree or timber
on the land of another person, or on the street or highway in front of any
person’s house, village lot, or cultivated grounds; or on the commons or
public grounds of any village or town; or on the street or highway in
ront thereof, without lawful authority—shall be liable to the owner of such
land, or to such village or town, for treble the amount of damages which
may be assessed therefore, in a civil action, in any court having jurisdiction.

SEC. 254. Nothing in the last section shall .authorize the recovery of more
than the just value of ‘ the timber taken from uncultivated woodland, for.
the repair of a public highway or bridge upon the land or adjoining it.

SEC. 255. If a person recover damages for a forcible or unlawful entry in
or upon, or detention of, any building or any cultivated real property,
judgment may be entered for three times the amount at which the actual

damages are assessed.

SEC. 256. An action may be brought by any person in possession, by
himself or his tenant, of real property, against any person who claims an
estate or interest therein adverse to him, for the purpose of determining

such adverse claim, estate, or interest.

SEC. 257. If the defendant in such action disclaim, in his answer, any
interest or estate in the property, or suffer judgment to be taken against
him without answer, the plaintifff shall not recover costs. 

SEC. 258. In an action for the recovery of real property, where the plaintifff shows a right to recover at the time the action was commenced, but it
a pears that his right has terminated during the pendency of the action,

, t e verdict and judgment shall be according to the fact; and the plaintiE
may recover damages for withholding the property. '

SEC. 259. When damages are claimed for withholding the property
recovered, upon which permanent improvements have been made by a .
defendant or those under whom he claims, holding under color of title
adversely to the claims of the plaintifff in good faith, the value of such
improvements shall be allowed as a set-off against such damages.

SEC. 260. The court in which an action is pending for the recovery of
real property, may, on motion, upon notice by either arty, for good cause
shown, grant an' order alloviring such party the rig t to enter upon the
property and make survey and measurement thereof for the purposes of
the action.

SEC. 261. The order shall describe the property, and a copy thereof
shall be served on the owner or occupants, and thereupon such party may
enter upon the property, with necessary surveyors or assistants, and may
make such survey and measurements; but if any unnecessary injury he
done to the property, he shall be liable therefore.

 

SEC. 262. A mortgage of real property shall not be deemed a convey~ ance, whatever its terms, so as to enable the owner of the mortgage to
recover possession of the real property without a foreclosure and sale.

SEC. 263. The court may, by injunction, on good cause shown, restrain
the party in possession from doing any act to the injury of real property
during the foreclosure of a mortgage thereon, or after a sale on execution
before a conveyance. 
SEC. 264. When real prOperty shall have been sold on execution, the
purchaser thereof, or any person who may have succeeded to his interest,
may, after his estate becomes absolute, recover damages for injury to the
property by the tenant in possession after sale and before p08ses‘sion is
delivered under the conveyance.

SEC. 265. An action for the recovery of real preperty against a person in
- possession cannot be rejudiced by any alienation made by such person
either before or after t e commencement of the action.

SEC. 266. When several persons hold and are in possession of real
property as joint tenants or as tenants in common, in which one or more _
of them have an estate of inheritance or fer life, an action may be brought
by one 'or more of such persons for a partition thereof, according to the
respective rights of the persons interested therein, and for sale of such
property or a part of it, if it appear that a partition cannot be made
without great prejudice to the owners.

SEC. 267. The interests of all persons in the property, whether such persons be known or unknown, shall be set forth in the complaint specifically
and particularly, as far as known to the plaintifff, and if one or. more of the
parties, or the share or quantity of interest of any of the parties, be
unknown to the plaintifff, or be uncertain or contingent, or the ownership
of the inheritance depend upon an executory devise, or the remainder be
a contingent remainder, so that such parties cannot be named, that fact
shall be set forth in the complaint. '

SEC. 268. No persons who have or claim any liens upon the property by
mortgage, judgment, or otherwise, need be made parties to the action,
unless such liens be matters of record.

SEC. 269. Immediately after filing the complaint, the plaintifff shall file
with the recorder of the county in which the property is situated a notice
of the pendency of the action, containing the names of the parties so far as
known, the object of the action, and a description of the property to be
affected thereby. From the time of the tiling it shall be deemed notice to
all persons. ' '

SEC. 270. The summons shall be directed to all the joint tenants and
tenants in common, and all persons having any interest in or any liens of
record by mortgage, judgment, or otherwise, upon the property or upon
any particular portion thereof; and generally, to all persons unknown who
have or claim to have any interest in the property.

 

SEC. 271. Ifa party having a” share or interest is unknown, or any one of
the known parties reside out of the Territory or cannot be found therein,
and such fact is made to appear by affidavit,-the summons may be served
on such absent or unknown party by' publication, as in other cases. When
publication is made, the summons as published shall be accompanied by a
brief description of the property which is the subject of the action.

SEC. 272. The defendants who have been personally served with the sums
mons and a copy of the complaint, shall set forth in their answers fully
and particularly the nature and extent of their interest in the property;
 if such defendants claim a lien upon the property by mortgage, judgment, or otherwise, they shall state the amount and date of the same, and
the amount remaining due thereon, and whether the amount has been
secured in any other wa or not; and if secured, the extent and nature
of the security; or they s all be deemed to have waived their right to such

lien.

SEC. 273. The rights of the several parties, plaintifffs as well as defendants, may be put in issue, tried, and determined by such action ; and when
a sale of the premises is necessary, the title shall be ascertained by proof
to the satisfaction of the court before the judgment of sale shall be made;
and Where service of the complaint has been made by publication, like
proof shall be required of the right of the absent or unknown parties
before such judgment is rendered, except that where there are several
unknown persons having an interest in the property, their rights may be
considered together in the action, and not as between themselves.

SEC. 274. The plaintifff shall produce to the court, on the hearing of thecase, the certificate of the recorder of the county where the property is
situated, showing whether there were or not any liens outstanding of record
upon the property, or any part thereof, at the time of the commencement.of the action.

SEC. 275. If it appear by the certificate of the recorder that there wereoutstanding liens of record at the time of the commencement of the action,
and the persons holding or claiming such aliens are not made parties to the
action, the court shall either order such parties to: be brought in by an.
amendment or supplemental complaint, or appoint a referee to ascertain
whether their liens have been paid, or if not paid, what amount remains.
due, and their order among the hens held by the parties who have appeared
and answered; and whether the amount - remaining due thereon has.been secured in any way, and if secured, the extent and nature of the

security.

SEC. 276. The plaintiff shall cause a notice to be served a reasonable
time previous to the day for appearance before the referee appointed,.as
provided in the last section, on each person having outstanding liensof”
record, who is not a party to the action, to appear before the referee-at a
specified time and place, to make proof by his own aiiidavit, or otherwise,
of the true amount due, or to become due, contingently or absolutely thereon.
In case such person be. absent, or his residence be unknown, service may
be made by publication or notice to his agents, under the direction of the
court, in such manner as may be proper. The report of the referee thereon.
shall be made to the court, and shall be confirmed, modified, or set aside,,

and a new reference ordered, as the justice of the case may require.

SEC. 277. If it be alleged in the complaint and be established by evidence, or if it appear by the evidence without such allegation in the complaint, to the satisfaction of the court, that the property, or any part of it,
is so situated that partition cannot be made without great prejudice to
the owners, the court may order a sale thereof. Otherwise, upon the requisite proofs being made, it shall order a partition according to the respective
rights of the parties, as ascertained by the court, and appoint three referees
therefore; and shall design ate the portion to remain undivided for the owners
whose interests remain unknown or are not ascertained.

SEC. 278. In making the partition, referees shall divide the property and
allot the several portions thereof to the respective parties, quality and quantity relatively considered, according to the respective rights of the parties,
as determined by the court, designating the several portions by proper landmarks; and may employ a surveyor, with the necessary assistants, to aid
them therein. ‘

SEC. 279. The referees shall make a report of their proceedings, specifying therein the manner of executing their trust, describing the property
divided, and the shares allotted to each party, with a particular description
of each share.

SEC. 280. The court may confirm or set aside the report, and if necessary
appoint new referees. Upon the report being confirmed, judgment shall be
rendered that such partition be elfectual for ever; which judgment shall
be binding and conclusive:

lst. On all;persons named as parties to the action and their legal representatives, who have at the time any interest in the property divided, or
any part, thereof, as owners in fee, or as tenants for life or for years; or
as entitled to the reversion, remainder, or the inheritance of such property,
or of any part thereof, after the termination of a particular estate therein ;
and who by any contingency may be entitled to a beneficial interest in the
property, or who have an interest in any undivided share thereof as tenants
or years or for life; '

2d. On all persons interested in the property who may be unknown, to
whom natice shall have been given of the action for partition by publication; an ‘ .

3d. On all other persons claiming from such parties or persons, or either
of them. '

SEC. 281. But such judgment and’partition shall not affect tenants for
years less than ten, to the whole of the property which is the subject of the
partition.

SEC. 282. The expenses of the referees, including those of a surveyor
and his assistant, when employed, shall be ascertained and allowed by the
court; and the amount thereof, together with the fees allowed by law to
the referees, shall be apportioned among the different parties to the
action. ,

SEC. 283. When a lien is on an undivided interest or estate of any of the
parties, such lien, if a partition be made, shall thenceforth be a charge only
on the share assigned to such party; but such share shall be first charged

 

with its just proportion of the costs of the partition, in preference to such
- lien.

SEC. 284. When a part of the property only is ordered to be sold, if
there be an estate for life or years in an undivided share of the whole

property, such estate may be set off in any part of the property not ordered
to be sold. ' .

SEC. 285. The proceeds of the sale of the incumbered property shall be
applied under the direction of the court as follows:

1st. To pay its just proportion of the general costs of the action;
2d. To pay the costs of the reference;

3d. To satisfy and cancel of record the several liens in their order of
priority, by payment of the sums due and to become due; the amount due
to be verified by affidavit at the time of payment.

4th. The residue among the owners of the property sold, according to
their respective shares therein.

SEC. 286. Whenever any party to an action who holds a lien upon the
preperty, or any part thereof, has other securities for the payment of the
amount of such lien, the court may, in its discretion, order such securities
to be exhausted before a distribution of the proceeds of sale, or may order

a just deduction to be made from the amount of the lien on the property
on account thereof.

SEC. 287. The proceeds of sale, and the securities taken by the referees,
or any part thereof, shall be distributed by them to the persons entitled
thereto, whenever the court so directs. But in case no direction be given,

all such proceeds and securities shall be paid into court, or deposited therein,
or as directed by the court.

SEC. 288. When the proceeds of sales of any shares or parcels belonging to persons who are parties to the action and who are known, are paid
into court, the action may be continued as between such parties, for the
determination of their respective claims thereto, which shall be ascertained
and adjudged by the court. Further testimony may be taken in court, or
by a referee, at the discretion of the court, and the court may, if necessary, require such parties to present the facts or law in controversy, by
pleadings, as in an original action.

SEC. 289. All sales of real property, made by referees under this chapter,
shall be made by public auction to the highest bidder, upon notice published
in the manner required for. the sale of real property on execution. The .
notice shall state the terms of sale, and if the property or any part of it is

to be sold, subject to a prior estate, charge, or lien, that shall be stated in
the notice.

SEC. 290. The court shall, in the order for sale, direct the terms cf credit
which may be allowed for the purchase money of any portion of the premises of which it may direct a sale 'on credit, and for that portion of which
the purchase money is'required, by the provisions hereinafter contained, to

be invested for the benefit of unknown owners, infants, or parties out of the
Territory. ' '

SEC. 291. The referees may take separate mortgages and other securities

 

. for the whole on cdnvenient portions of the purchase money, ,of such parts
of the property as are directed by the court to be sold on credit, in the
name of the clerk of the court and his successors in office; and for the
shares of any known owner of full age, in the name of such owner; and for
the shares of an infant, in the name of the guardian of such infant.

SEC. 292. The person entitled to a tenancy for life or years, Whose estate
shall have been sold, shall. be entitled to receive such sum as may be deemed
a reasonable satisfaction for such estate, and which, the person so entitled‘
may consent to accept instead thereof, by an instrument in writing'filed
with the clerk of the court. Upon the tiling of such consent, the clerk shall
enter the same in the minutes of the court.

SEC. 293. If such consent be not given, filed, and entered, as provided in;
the last section, at or before a judgment of sale is rendered, the court shall
ascertain and determine what proportion of the proceeds of the sale, after
deducting expenses, will be a just and reasonable sum to be allowed on
account of such estate; and shall order the same to be paid to such party,
or deposited in court for him, as the case may require.

SEC. 294. If the persons entitled to such estate for life or years be
unknown, the Court shall provide for the protection of their rights in the
same manner, as far as may be, as if they were known and had appeared.

SEC. 295. In all cases of sales when it appears that any person has a
vested or contingent future right or estate in any of the property sold, the
court shall ascertain and settle the proportional value of such contingent
or vested right or estate, and shall direct such proportion of the proceeds
of the sale to.be invested, secured, or paid over, in such manner as to protect the rights and interests of the parties.

SEC. 296. In all cases of sales of property, the terms shall be made known
at the time; and if the premises consist of distinct farms or lots, they shall
be sold separately. '

SEC. 297. Neither of the referees, nor any person for the benefit of either ‘of them, shall be interested in any purchase; nor shall a guardian of an
infant party be interested in the purchase of any real propert being the
subject of the action, except for the benefit of the infant. All sa es contrary
to the provisions of this section shall be Void.

SEC. 298. After completing a sale of the property, or any part thereof
ordered to be sold, the referees shall report the same to the court, with a
description of the different parcels of land sold to each purchaser; the name
of the purchaser; the price paid or secured; the terms and conditions of
the sale; and the securities, if any, taken. The report shall be filed in the
office of the clerk of the county Where the property is situated.

SEC. 299. If the sale be coniirmed by the court, an order shall be entered
directing the referees to~ execute conveyances and take securities pursuant
to such sale; which they are hereby authorized to do. Such order

' may also give directions to them respecting the disposition of the proceeds
of the 8319.

SEC. 300. When a party entitled to a share of the property, or an

 

encumbrancer entitled to have his lien paid out of the sale, becomes a
purchaser, the referees may take his"receipt for so much ,of the proceeds
of the sale as belong to him. . ‘

SEC. 301. The conveyances shall be recorded in the county where the
premises are situated, and shall be a bar against all persons interested in the
property in any way, who shall have been named as parties in the action;
and against all such parties and persons as were unknown, if the summons
have been served by publication, and against all persons claiming for them,
or either' of them.

SEC. 302. When there are proceeds of a sale belonging to an unknown
Owner, or to a person Without the territory, who has no legal representative ~ ‘
within it, the same shall be invested in securities on interest, for the benefit
of the persons entitled thereto.

SEC. 303. When the security of the proceeds of sale is taken, or when
an investment of any such prOceeds is made, it shall be done, except as
herein otherwise provided, In the name of the clerk of the court where the
papers are filed, and his successor in office, who shall hold the same
for the use and benefit of the parties interested, subject to the order of the
court.

SEC. 304.. When security is taken by the referees on a sale, and the
parties interested in such security, by an instrument in writing under their
hands delivered to the referees, agree upon the shares and pr0portions to
which they are respectively entitled -; or when shares and rop‘ortions have
been previously adjudged by the court, such securities s all be taken in
the names of, and ayable to, the parties respectively entitled thereto ; and
shall be delivers to such parties upon their receipt therefore. Such
agreement and receipt shall be returned and filed with the .clerk.

SEC. 305. The clerk in whose name a security is taken, or by Whom an
investment is made, and his successor in office, shall receive the interest
and principal as it becomes due, and apply and invest the same as the court
may direct; and shall file in his office all securities taken, and keep an
account in a book provided and kept for that purpose, in the clerk’s office,
free for inspection‘by all persons, of investments and monies received by
him thereon, and the disposition thereof.

SEC. 306. When it appears that partition cannot be made equal between
the parties according to their respective rights, Without prejudice to the
rights and interests of some of them, and a partition be Ordered by
judgment, the court may adjudge compensation to be made by one party
to another on account of the inequality of partition. But such compensation shall not be required to be made to Others, by owners unknown, nor
by infants, unless, in case of an infant, it appear that he has personal
plll‘opegty suiiicient for that purpose, and that his interest will be promoted
t ere 

SEC. 307. When the share of an infant is sold, the proceeds of the sale
-may be paid :by the referee making the sale to his general guardian, or the
special guardian appointed for him in the action, upon giving the security
required by law, or directed by order of the court. 

SEC. 308. The guardian who may be entitled to the custody and manage 

ment of the estate of an insane person, or other person adjudged incapable
of conducting his own aii'airs, Whose interest in real property shall have
been sold, may receive, in behalf of such persons, his share of the proceeds,
of such real property from the referee, on executing with sufficient sure.ties, an undertaking approved by a judge of the court or judge'of probate
that he Will faithfully discharge the trust reposed in him, and will render a
true and just account to the person entitled; or to his legal representative.

SEC. 309. The general guardian of an infant and the guardian entitled to
the custody and management of the estate of an insane person, or other
person adjudged incapable of conducting his own affairs, who is interested
in real estate held in joint tenancy, or in common, or in any other manner
so as to authorize his being made a party to an action for the partition
thereof, may consent to a partition Without action and agree upon the
share to be set off to such infant or other person entitled, and may execute
a release in his behalf to the owners of the shares of the parts to which
they “may be respectively entitled, upon an order of the court.

SEC. 310. The costs cf partition, including fees of referees and other
disbursements, shall be paid by the parties respectively entitled to share in
the lands divided, in proportion to their respective interests therein,
and may be included and specilied in the judgment. In that case 'they
shall be a lien on the several shares, and the jud 'ment may be enforced by
execution against such shares, and against. ot er property held by the
respective parties. When, however, a litigation arises between some of '

the parties only the court may require the expenses of such litigation to be
paid by the parties thereto, or any of them. ‘

SEC. 311. The court, with the consent of the parties, may appoint a single
referee instead of three referees, in the proceedings under the provisions
of this chapter; and the single referee, when thus appointed, shall have
all the powers and perform all the duties required of the three referees.

SEC. 312. An action may be brought by the attorney-general in the
name of the Territory'upon his own information, or upon the complaint of
a private party, against any person who usurps, intrudes into, or unlawfully
holds ,or exercises any public office, civil or military, or any franchise
Within this Territory. And it shall be the duty of the attorney-general to
bring the action, whenever he has reason to believe that any such office or
franchise has been usurped, intruded into, or unlawfully held or exercised
by any person, or when he is directed to do so by the governor: Provided,
that any person claiming such oiiice or franchise may bring such action, by
apylying for and obtaining leave of the court for that purpose.

SEC. 313. Whenever such action is brought, the attorney-general or other
person, in addition to the statement of the cause of action, may also set
forth in the complaint the name of the person rightly entitled to the oiiice,
with a statement of his right thereto; and in such case, upon proof by
aiiidavit that the defendant has received fees or emoluments belonging to
the ofIice, and by means of his usurpation thereof, an order may be granted
by a judge of the supreme court, or a district- judge, for the arrest of such
defendant, and .holdmg him to bail; and thereupon he may be arrested,

 

and held to bail, in the same manner and with the same effect, and subject
to the same rights and liabilities as in other civil actions where the defendant is subject to arrest. ‘

SEC. 314. In every such case, judgment may be rendered upon the right
of the defendant, and also upon the right of the party so alleged to be
entitled ; or only upon the right of the defendant, as justice shall require.

SEC. 315. If the judgment be rendered upon the right of the person so
alleged to be entitled, and the same be in favor of such person, he shall be
entitled, after taking the oath of oiiice, and executing such oiiicial bond as
may be required by law, to take upon himself the execution of the office.

SEC. 316. If judgment be rendered upon the right of the person so
alleged to be entitled, in favor of such person, he may recover by action,
the damages which he shall have sustained by reason of the usurpation of
the office by the defendant. ~

SEC. 317. When several persons claim to be entitled to the same office or
franchise, one action may be brought against all such persons, in order to
try their respective rights to such ofiiee or franchise.

SEC. 318. When a defendant, against whom such action has been
brought, is adjudged guilty of usurping or intruding into, or unlawfully
holding any office, franchise, or privilege, judgment shall be rendered that
such defendant be excluded from the ofliee, franchise, or privilege, and
that he pay the costs of the action. The court may also, in its discretion,
impose upon the defendant a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars;
‘ which fine, when collected, shall be paid into the treasury of the Territory.

SEC. 319. All steamers, vessels, and boats shall be liable :—

1st. For supplies furnished for their use at the request of their respective
owners, masters, agents, or consignees;

2d. For services rendered on board at the request of, or contract with,
their respective owners, masters, agents, or consignees ;

3d. For materials furnished in their construction, or repair, or equipment;

4th. For their wharfage and anchorage within the Territory;

5th. For non-performance or mal-performance of any contract for the.
transportation of persons or property made by their. respective owners,
masters, agents, or consignees;

6th. For injuries committed by them to persons or property; provided,
that the wages of mariners, boatmen, and others employed in the service
of such steamers, vessels, and boats, shall have preference over all other
demands.

SEC. 320. Actions for demands arising upon any of the grounds specified
in the preceding section, may be brought directly against such steamers,
vessels, or boats.

SEC. 321. The complaint shall designate the steamer, vessel, or boat by

name, and shall be verified by the oath of the plaintifff, or some one on his
behalf. '

 

SEC. 322. The summons attached to a copy of the complaint may he
served on the master, mate, or any person having charge of the steamer,
vessel, or boat, against which the action is brought.

SEC. 323. The plaintifff, at~the time of issuing the summons, or at any
time afterwards, may have the steamer, vessel, or boat, against which the
action is brought, with its tackle, apparel, and furniture, attached, as security
for the satisfaction of any judgment that may be recovered therein.

SEC. 324. The clerk of the court shall issue a writ of attachment, on the
application of the plaintifff, upon receiving a written undertaking on behalf
of the plaintifff, executed by two or more sutiicient sureties, to the effect
that- if judgment be rendered in favor of the steamer, vessel, or boat, as
the case may be, he will pay all costs and damages that may be awarded
against him, and all damages which may be sustained by such steamer,
vessel, or boat, from the attachment, not exceeding the sum s ecified in the
undertaking, which shall in no case be less than five hundr dollars when
the attachment is issued against a steamer or vessel, or less than two hundred dollars when issued against a boat. The undertaking shall be accompanied by an affidavit of each of the sureties, that he is a resident and
freeholder or householder of the county, and worth double the amount specified in the undertaking over and above all his just debts and liabilities.
The clerk shall file the undertaking and affidavits.

SEC. 325. The writ shall be directed to the sheriff of the county within
which the steamer, vessel, or boat lies, and direct him to attach such
steamer, vessel, or boat, with its tackle, apparel, and furniture, and keep
the same in his custody until discharged by due course of law ; unless the
owner, master, agent, or consignee thereof, give him security by the undertaking of at least two sufficient sureties, in an amount sutiicient to satisfy
the demand in suit, which shall be specified in the writ, besides costs; in
which case he release such steamer or other property and return such
undertaking with his writ. ’

SEC. 326. The sherif to whom the writ is directed and delivered shall
execute the same without delay, and shall, unless the undertaking mentioned
in the last section be given, attach and keep in his custody the steamer,
vessel, or boat named therein, with its tackle, apparel, and furniture, until
discharged by due course of law; but the sheriff shall not be authorized
by any such writ to interfere with the discharge of any merchandise on
board of such steamer, vessel, or boat, nor with the removal of any trunks
or other property of passengers, or of the captain, mate, seamen, steward,
cook, or other persons employed on board.

SEC. 327. The owner, master, agent, or consignee of the steamer, vessel,
or boat, against which the action is brOught, may appear and answer, or
plead to the action; and may except to the suiiiciency of the sureties on
the undertaking filed on the behalf of the plaintifff, and may require sure.
ties to justify, as in actions against individuals upon bail on arrest.

SEC. 328. All proceedings in actions under the provisions of this chapter
shall be conducted in the same manner as in actions against individuals,
except as otherwise herein provided ; and in all proceedings subsequent to
the complaint, the steamer, vessel, or beat, may be designated as defendant.

SEC. 329. After the appearance to the action of the owner, master, agent,

 

or consignee, the attachment may, on motion, be discharged, in the same
manner, and on like terms and conditions as attachmwts in other cases,
subject to the provisions of section three hundred and thirty-one. ~

SEC. 330. If the attachment be not discharged, and a judgment .be recovered in the action in favor of the plaintifff, and an execution be issued
thereon, the sheriff shall sell at public auction, after publication of notice
of such sale for ten days, the steamer, vessel, or boat, with its tackle,
apparel, and furniture, or such interest therein as may be necessary, and
shall apply the proceeds of sale as follows:

1. When the action is brought for demands other than the wages of
mariners, boatmen, and others employed in the service of the steamer, vessel, or boat sold, to the payment of the amount of such wages, as specified
in the execution. ‘

2. To the payment of the judgment and costs, including his fees; and,

3. He shall pay any balance remaining to the owner, master, agent, or
consignee, who may have appeared in the action ; or if there be no appearance, then into court, subject to the claim of any party or parties legally
entitled thereto.

SEC. 331. Any mariner, boatman, or other person employed in the service
of the steamer, vessel, or boat attached, who may wish to assert his claim
for wages against the same, the attachments being issued for other demands
than such wages, shall file an affidavit of his claim, setting forth the amount
and the particular service rendered, with the clerk of the court; and thereafter no attachment shall be discharged upon tiling an undertaking, unless
the amount of such claim, or the amount determined as provided in the
' next section, be covered thereby in addition to the other requirements; and
any execution issued against such steamer, vessel, or boat, upon judgment
recovered thereafter, shall direct the application of the proceeds of any sale:
first, to the payment of the amount of such claims filed, or the amount
determined, as provided in the next section, which the clerk shall insert in
the writ; and, second, to the payment of the judgment and costs, and
sheriff’s fees; and shall direct the payment of any balance to the owner,
master, agent, or consignee, who may have appeared in the action; but if
no appearance by them be made therein, it shall direct a deposit of the
balance in court.

SEC. 332. If the claim of the mariner, boatman, or other person, filed
with the clerk of the court, as provided in the last section, be not contested
within five days after notice of the filing thereof by the owner, master,
agent, or consignee of the steamer, vessel, or boat, against which the claim
is filed, it shall be deemed admitted; but if contested, the clerk shall
endorse upon the affidavit thereof a statement that it is contested, and the
grounds of the contest; and shall immediately thereafter order the matter
to a single referee for his determination, or he may hear the proofs and
determine the matter himself. The judgment of the clerk or referee may
be received by the judge either in term or vacation, immediately after the
same is given, and the judgment of the judge shall be final. On the review '
the judge may use the minutes of the proofs taken by the clerk or referee,
or may take the proofs anew.

SEC. 333. The notice of sale publishedby the sheriff shall contain a statement of the measurement and tonnage of the steamer, vessel, or boa-t, and a
general description of her condition.

 

SEC. 334. From orders and judgments under this chapter, an appeal may
be taken by the owner, master, agent, or consignee, on the same terms and
conditions as appeals in actions against individuals.

SEC. 335. A judgment or order in a civil action, except when made final

by this chapter, may be reviewed as prescribed by this chapter, and not
otherwise.

SEC. 336. An order made out of court, without notice to the adverse
party, may be vacated or modified, without notice, by the judge who made

it; or may be vacated or modified on notice, in the manner in which other
motions are made.

SEC. 337. Any party aggrieved may appeal in the cases prescribed in this chapter. The party appealing shall be nown as the appellant, and the ,
adverse party as the respondent.

SEC. 338. An appeal may be taken:

1. From a final judgment in an action or special proceeding commenced
in the court in which the judgment is rendered, Within one year after the
rendition of the judgment. .

2. From a judgment rendered on an appeal from an inferior court, within
ninety days after the rendition of the judgment.

3. From an order made by the probate court which, by law, may be
appealed from, within sixty days after the order is made and entered by the
clerk.

This section shall not extend to appeals to the district courts from orders
or judgments of the probate courts, but shall extend to judgments rendered
in the district courts upon such appeals.

SEC. 339. The appeal shall be made by filing with the clerk of the court
with whom the judgment or order appealed from is entered, a notice stating
the appeal from the same, or some specific part thereof, and serving a copy
of the notice upon the adverse party or his attorney.

SEC. 340. When the party who has the right to appeal wishes a statement
of the case to be annexed to the record of the judgment or order, he shall,
within twenty days after the entry of such judgment or order, prepare such
statement, which shall, contain the grounds upon which he intends to rely
on the appeal, and so much of the evidence as may be necessary to explain
the grounds, and no more, and shall serve a copy thereof upon the adverse
party. The respondent may, within five days thereafter, prepare amendments to the statement, and serve a copy on the appellant. If such amendments are admitted the statement shall be corrected accordingly; and if
not admitted, the statement and amendment shall be presented to the judge
who tried or heard the case, upon notice of two days to the respondent,
and a true statement shall thereupon be settled by such judge.

SEC. 341. If the party shall omit to make a statement within the time

 

above limited, he shall be deemed to have waived his right thereto; and .
when a statement is made and the parties. shall omit within the several times
above limited, the one party to pro ose amendments, the other to notify an
appearance before the judge, they 8 11 respectively be deemed, the former

to have agreed to the statement as proposed, and the latter to have agreed
to the amendments as proposed.

SEC. 342. The several periods of time above limited may be enlarged, upon
good cause shown by the judge before whom the cause was tried.

SEC. 343. The statement, when settled by the judge, shall be signed by
him-, with the certificate that the same has been allowed and is correct;
when the statement is agreed upon by the parties, they or their attorneys
shall sign the same, with their certificate that it has been agreed upon

by them and is correct. In either case, when settled or agreed upon, it
shall be filed with the clerk.

SEC. 344. The clerk shall annex the statement if the appeal be from a final
judgment, to the judgment-roll ; if the appeal be from an order, to such order
or to a copy thereof.

SEC. 345. The provisions of the last live preceding sections shall not apply
to appeals taken from an order made upon aiiidavits filed; but such affidavits shall be annexed to the order in the place of the statement mentioned
in those sections.

SEC. 346. Upon an appeal from a judgment, the court may review any

intermediate order involving the merits and necessarily affecting the judgment.

SEC. 347. Upon an appeal from a judgment or order, the appellate court
may reverse, ailirm, or modify the judgment or order appealed from, in the
respect mentioned in the notice of appeal, and as to any or all of the parties ; and may set aside or conhrm, or modify, any or all of the proceedings
subsequent to, or dependent upon such judgment or order; and may, if necessary or proper, order a new trial. When the judgment or order is reversed
or modified, the appellate court may make complete restitution of all property and rights lost by the erroneous judgment or order; and when it
appears to the appellate court that the appeal was made for delay, it may
add to the costs such damages as may be just.

SEC. 348. On an appeal from a final judgment, the appellant shall furnish
the court a copy of the notice of appeal, the judgment-roll, and the statement annexed, certified by the clerk to be a correct copy. On a peal from
a judgment rendered on an appeal or order, the appellant shall urnish the
court with a copy of the notice of appeal, the judgment or order appealed
from, and a copy of the papers used on the hearing of the court below ; such
copies to be certified by the clerk to be correct. If any written opinion be
given on rendering the judgment or making the order in the court below,
a copy shall be furnished. If the appellant fail to furnish the requisite
papers, the appeal may be dismissed; and whenever costs are awarded to a
party by an appellate court, such party may have execution for the same on
tiling a remittz'ttur with the clerk below, who shall thereupon issue the execution upon application therefore; and whenever costs are awarded to a party

by an order of any court of record, such party may have execution therefore
m like mnner asu on a 'udment


SEC. 349. An appeal may be taken to the supreme court from the district

courts in the followmg cases: ~

1. From the final judgment rendered in an action or special proceeding
commenced in those courts, or brought into those courts from another
court ; r
2. From an order made granting or refusing a new trial, or which affects
a substantial right in an action or special proceeding. <

SEC. 350. To render an appeal eii'ectual for any purpose in any case, a
written undertaking shall be executed on the part of the appellant, by at
least two sureties, to the effect that the appellant will pay all damages and
costs which may be awarded against him on ‘the appeal, not exceeding three
hundred dollars; or that sum shall be deposited with the clerk with whom
the judgment or order was entered, to abide the event of the appeal. Such
undertaking shall be filed, or such deposit made with the clerk, within five
days after the notice of appeal is filed. '

SEC. 351. If the appeal be from a judgment or order directing the payment of money, it shall not stay the execution of the judgment or order
unless a written undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant by two
or more sureties, stating their places of residence and occupation, to the
effect that they are bound in double the amount named in the judgment or
order, that if the judgment or order appealed from, or any part thereof, be
affirmed, the appellant shall pay the amount_ directed to be paid by the
judgment or order, or the part of such amount as to which the judgment or order shall be afiirmed, if afhrmed only in part; and all damages
and costs which shall be awarded against the appellant upon the appeal.

SEC. 352. If the judgment or order appealed from direct the assignment
or delivery of documents, or personal property, the execution of the judg-‘
ment or order shall not he stayed by appeal unless the things required ‘to be
assigned or delivered be placed in the Custody of such oliicer or' receiver as
the court may appoint; or unless an undertaking be entered into on the part
of the appellant, with at least two sureties, and in such amount as the court
or the judge thereof may direct, to the effect that the appellant will obey
the order of the appellate court upon the appeal. '

SEC. 353. If the judgment or order appealed from direct the execution of
a conveyance or other instrument, the execution of the judgment or order
shall not be stayed by the appeal until the instrument is executed and deposited with the clerk, to abide the judgment of . the appellate court. ‘

SEC. 354, If the judgment or order appealed from direct the sale or delivery of possession of real property, the execution of the same shall not be
stayed, unless a written undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant, with two or more sureties, to the eii'ect that during the possession of
such property by the appellant, he will not commit, or suffer to be committed, any waste thereon, and that if the judgment be ailirmed, he will pay
the value of the use and occupation of the property from the time of the
appeal until the delivery of possession thereof, pursuant to the judgment or
order, not exceeding a sum to be fixed by the judge of the court by which
the judgment was rendered or order made, and which shall be specified in

 

the undertaking. When the judgment is for the sale of mortgaged premises, and the payment of a deficiency arising upon the sale, the undertaking shall also provide for the payment of suc deficiency.

SEC. 355. Whenever an appeal is perfected, as provided by the preceding sections in this chapter, it shall stay all further proceedings in the court
below upon the judgment or, order appealed from, or upon the matter
embraced therein; but the court below may proceed u on any other matter included in the action, and not affected by the jlddgment or order
appealed from. And the court below may, in its discretion, dispense with,
or limit the security required by said sections, when the appellant is an
executor, administrator, trustee, or other person acting in another’s right.

SEC. 356. The undertaking prescribed by sections three hundred and
fifty-one, three' hundred and fifty-two, three hundred and fifty-three, and

three hundred and fifty-four, may be in one instrument or several, at the
option of the appellant. ‘

SEC. 357. An undertaking upon an appeal shall be of no effect imless it
be accompanied by the affidavit of the sureties that they are each worth
double the amount specified therein, over and above all their just debts and
liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution. The adverse party
may, however, except to the sufficiency of the sureties within five days
after the filing of the undertaking; and unless they or other sureties justify
before a judge of the court below,or the district clerk, within five days
thereafter (upon notice to the adverse party), the appeal shall be regarded

as if no such undertaking had been given.

SEC. 358. In cases not provided for in sections three hundred and fiftyone, three hundred and fifty-two, three hundred and fifty-three, and three
hundred and fifty-four, the perfecting of an appeal by giving the undertaking, and the justification of the sureties thereon, if required, or making
the deposit mentioned in section three hundred and fifty, shall stay proceedings in. the court below upon the judgment or order appealed from; except
that where it directs the sale of perishable property, the court below may

order the property to be sold and the proceeds thereof to be deposited, to
abide the judgment of the appellate court. ‘

SEC. 359. Appeals in the supreme court from a final judgment, and from
a judgment rendered on an appeal, shall be heard at a general term.
Appeals in all other cases shall be heard at a special term.

SEC. 360. When judgment is rendered upon the appeal, it shall be certified by the clerk of the supreme court to the clerk with whom the judg— ,
ment-roll is filed. In cases of appeal from the judgment, the clerk with
whom the roll is filed shall attach the certificate to the j udgment-roll, and
enter a minute of the judgment of the supreme court on the docket against

the original entry. In case of appeal from an order, the clerk shall enter
at length in the records of the court the certificate received, and minute

against the entry of the order appealed, from a reference to the certificate,
with a brief ,‘statement that such order has been affirmed, reversed, or

modified, as. the case may be, by the supreme court on appeal.

SEC. 361. In all appeals from justices’. courts to the district court, after
the returns are filed, the court shall proceed to examine such returns, and
render judgment thereon, as the right of the case shall appear, without
regard to technicalities or imperfections in pleadings, if they do not tend
to the prej udice of the rights of any party.

SEC. 362. Such judgment may be rendered upon the returns, or the court
may order the sameto be tried anew in the district court, as substantial
justice may require.

SEC. 363. Appeals to the district courts, as provided in this chapter, shall
be heard at any terms of those courts, and shall be brought on to a hearing
at the earliest period practicable.

SEC. 364. The appellant shall furnish the papers to the appellate court in
the same manner as upon an appeal to the supreme court. Causes on
appeal shall be tried anew in the appellate court, if the court so direct.

SEC. 365. An appeal may be taken from a probate court to the district
court 'of the district in which the probate court is held, in the following

cases :

1. From an order or decree admitting a will to probate, or refusing
the same. ‘

2. From an order setting apart property, or making an allowance for
the widow or children. ‘

3. From an order granting letters testamentary or of administration,
or appointing a guardian of an infant, or of an insane person, or of a person mcompetent to manage his property, or refusing to grant such letters
or to make such appointment, or making such letters or appointment.

4. From an order directing the sale or conveyance of real property.

5. From an order or decree by which a debt, claim, legacy, or distributive share is allowed, or payment thereof directed; or by which such
allowance or direction is refused.

6. From an order made on the settlement of an executor, administrator, or guardian.

SEC. 366. The appeal shall be taken within thirty days after the order or
decree appealed from is entered with the clerk. /

SEC. 367. Appeals from the probate courts shall be heard at any terms
of the district courts, and be brought on at the earliest period practicable.

SEC. 368. For a failure to prosecute an appeal from the probate court, or
an unnecessary delay in bringing it to a hearing, the district court may
order the appeal to be dismissed.

SEC. 369. If the appeal be dismissed as provided in the preceding section, the clerk shall file a certified copy of the order dismissing the same in
' the probate court, and thereupon such court may proceed in the case as if
no appeal had been taken.

SEC. 370. When a judgment is recovered against any one or more of several
persons jointly indebted upon an obligation, by proceedings, as provided
in section thirty-two, those who were not originally served with the summons, and did not appear to the action, may be summoned to show cause
why they should not be bound by the judgment, in the same manner as
though they had been originally served with the summons.

SEC. 371. The summons, as provided in the last section, shall describe the
judgment, and require the person summoned to show cause why he should
not be bound by it, and shall be served in the same manner, and returnable
Within the same time, as the original summons. It shall not be necessary
to file a new complaint.

SEC. 372. The summons should be accompanied by an affidavit of the plaintifff, his agent, representative, or attorney, that the judgment or some part
thereof remains unsatisfied; and shall specify the amount due thereon.

SEC. 373. Upon such summons the defendant may answer within the
time specihed therein, denying the judgment, or setting up any defense
which may have arisen subsequently; or he may deny his liability on the
obligation upon which the judgment was recovered, except a discharge from
such liability by the statute of limitation.

SEC. 374. If the defendant in his answer deny the judgment, or set up
any defense which may have arisen subsequently, the summons, with the
aiiidavit annexed, and the answer, shall constitute the written allegations in
the case; if he deny his liability on the obligation upon which the judgment
was recovered, a copy of the original complaint and judgment, the summons, with the affidavit annexed, and the answer, shall constitute such written allegations. '

SEC. 375. The issues formed may be tried as in other cases; but when
the defendant denies in his answer any liability on the obligation upon
which the judgment was rendered, if a'verdict be found against him, it '
shall be for the amount remaining unsatisfied on such original judgment,
with interest thereon.

SEC. 376. A judgment by confession may be entered without action,
either for money due or to become due, or to secure any person against '
contingent liability on behalf of the defendant, or both, in the manner prescribed in this chapter.

SEC. 377. A statement in writing shall be made, signed by the defendant,
and verified by his oath, to the following effect:

 

1st. It shall authorize the—entry of judgment for a specified sum.

2d. If it be for money due or to become due, and shall state concisely the
facts out of which it arose, and shall show that the sum confessed therefore
is justly due or to become due. '

3d. If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintifff against a contingent
liability, it shall state concisely the facts constituting the liability, and shall
show that the sum confessed therefore does not exceed the same.

SEC. 378. The statement shall be filed with the clerk of the court in which
the judgment is to be entered, who shall endorse upon it, and enter in the
judgment book a judgment of such court for the amount confessed, with
ten dollars costs. The statement and aiiidavit, with the judgment endorsed,
shall thereupon become the judgment-roll.
SEC. 379. Parties to a question in difference which might be the subject
of a civil action, may, Without action, agree upon a case containing the
facts upon which the controversy depends, and present a submission of the
same to any court which should have jurisdiction if an action had been
brought. But it must appear by aiiidavit that the controversy is real,
and the proceedings in good faith, to determine the rights of the parties.
The court shall thereupon hear and determine the case, and render judgment thereon as if an action were depending.

SEC. 380. Judgment shall be entered in the judgment book as in other

cases, but without costs, for any proceedings prior to the trial. The case,
the submission, and a copy of the judgment shall constitute the judgment.roll.

SEC. 381. The judgment may be enforced in the same manner as if it
had been rendered in an action, and shall be in the same manner subject to

SEC. 382. Persons capable of contracting may submit to arbitration any
controversy which might be the subject of a civil action between them,
except a question of title to real property in fee or for life. This qualification shall not include questions relating merely to the partition or boundaries of real property. ' '

SEC. 383. The submission to arbitration shall be in writing, and may be
to one or more persons.

SEC. 384. It may be stipulated in the submission that it be entered as an
order of the district court, for which purpose it shall be filed with the clerk
of the county where the parties, or one of them, reside. The clerk shall
thereupon enter in his register of actions a note of the submission, with
the names of the parties, the names of the arbitrators, the date of the submission, when filed, and the time limited by the submission, if any, Within
which the award shall be made. When so entered, the submission shall not
be revoked without the consent of both parties. The arbitrators may be
compelled by the court to make an award, and the award may be enforced

 

by the court in the same manner as a judgment. If the submission be not

’ made an order of the court, it may be revoked at any time before the
award is made.

SEC. 385. Arbitrators shall have power to appoint a time and place for
hearing, to adjourn from time to time, to administer oaths to witnesses, to

hear the allegations and evidence of the parties, and to make an award
thereon.

SEC. 386. All the arbitrators shall meet and act together during the
investigation; but when met, a majority may determine any question.
Before acting they shall be sworn before an oiiicer authorized to administer
oaths, faithfully and fairly to hear and examine the allegations and evidence
of the parties in relation to the matters in controversy, and to make a just
award according to their understanding.

SEC. 387. The award shall be in writing, signed by the arbitrators, or a
majority of them, and delivered to the parties. When the submission is
made an order of the court, the award shall be filed with the clerk, and a
note thereof made in his register. After the expiration of five days from
the filing of the award, upon the application of a party, and on filing an
aiiidavit showing that notice of filing the award has been served on the
adverse party or his attorney at least four days prior to such application,
and that no order staying the entry of judgment has been served, the
award shall be entered by the clerk in the judgment book, and shall thereupon have the effect of a judgment. ' '

SEC. 388. The court, on motion, may vacate the award upon' either of

the following grounds, and may order a new hearing‘ before the same arbitrators, or not, in its discretion:

1. That it was procured by corruption or fraud. ‘

2. That the arbitrators were guilty of misconduct or committed gross
error in refusing, on cause shown, to postpone the hearing, or in refusing to
hear pertinent evidence, or otherwise acted improperly, in a manner by
which the rights of the party were prejudiced.

3. That the arbitrators exceeded their powers in making their award, or
that they refused, or improperly omitted, to consider a part of the matters
submitted to them; or that the award is indefinite, or cannot be performed.

SEC. 389. The court may, on motion, modify or correct the award, where
it appears: ‘

1. That there was a miscalculation in figures upon which it was made,
or that there is a mistake in the description of some person or‘property
therein. ,

2. When a part of the award is upon matters not submitted, which.
part can be separated from other parts, and does not affect the decision on
the matter submitted.

3. When the award, though imperfect in form, could have been amended
if it had been a verdict, or the imperfection disregarded.

SEC. 390. The decisions upon the motion shall be subject to appeal in the
same manner as an order which is subject to appeal in a civil action ;‘ but
the judgment entered before a motion, is made shall not be subject to appeal;

SEC. 391. If a submission ,to arbitration be revoked, and an action be
brought therefore, the amount to be recovered shall only be the costs and
damages sustained in preparing 'for and attending the arbitration.

SEC. 392. The defendant may, at any time before the trial or judgment,
serve upon the plaintifff an oifer to allow judgment to be taken against him
for the sum or property, or to the effect therein speciiied. If the plaintifff
accept the offer and give notice thereof within five days, he may file the
summons, complaint, and offer, with an aiiidavit of notice of acceptance,
and the clerk shall thereupon enter judgment accordingly. If the notice.
of acceptance be not given, the offer shall be deemed Withdrawn, and shall
not be given in evidence ; and if the plaintiii‘fail to obtain a more favorable
judgment, he shall not recover costs, but shall pay the defendant’s costs
from the time of the offer. '

SEC. 393. All persons, without exception, otherwise than as specified in
this chapter, may be witnesses in any action or proceeding.

SEC. 394. No person offered as a witness shall be excluded by reason of
his interest in the event of the action or proceeding; nor on account of
opinions on matters of religious belief.

SEC. 395. The examination of the parties to any action, or persons for.
whose immediate benefit the actidn is prosecuted or defended, shall be taken
as provided in sections four hundred and twenty and four hundred and
twenty-four of this chapter. ‘ '

SEC. 396. The following persons. shall not. be witnesses:

1. Those who are of unsound mind at the timeof their production for
examination.

2. Children under ten years of age, who appear incapable of receiving
just impressions of the facts respecting which they are examined, or of
relating them truly; and,

3. Indiana or persons having one-half or more of Indian blood, in an
action or proceeding to which a white person is a party.

4. Negroes, or persons having one-half or more negro blood, in an action
or, proceeding to which a white person is a party.

SEC. 397. A husband shall not be a witness for or against his wife, nor a
wife a witness for or against her husband; nor can either, during the
marriage, or afterwards, be, without the consent of the other, examined as to
any communication made by one to the other during the marriage. But this
exception shall not apply to an action or proceeding by one against the
other.

SEC. 398. An attorney or counsellor shall not, without the consent of
 client, be examined as, a witness as to any communication made by- the

 

client to him, or his advice given thereon, in the course of professional
employment.

SEC. 399. A clergyman or priest shall not, without the consent of the
person making the confession, be examined as a witness as to any confession
made to him in his' professional character, in the course of discipline
enjoined by the church to which he belongs.

SEC. 400. A licensed physician or surgeon shall not, without the consent
of his patient, be examined as a witness as to any information acquired in

attending the patient which was necessary to enable him to prescribe or
act for the patient.

SEC. 401. A public .officer shall not be examined as a witness as to communications made to him in oiiicial confidence, when the public interest
would suifer by the disclosure.

SEC. 402. The judge himself, or any juror, may be called as-a witness by
either party; but in such case it shall be in the discretion of the court or

judge to order the trial to be postponed or suspended, and to take place
before another judge or jury.

SEC. 403. When a witness does not understand and speak the English

language, an interpreter shall be sworn to interpret for him.

SEC. 404. A subpoena may require "not only the personal attendance of

the person to whom it is directed at a particu ar time and place, to testify
as a witness, but may also require him tor-bring with him any books, documents, or other things. under his control. No Witness shall be required

to attend before any court, judge, justice, .or other oiiicer, out of the county
in which he resides.

SEC. 405. The snbpcena shall be issued as follows :—

1. To require attendance before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein,
it shall be issued in the name and under the seal of the court before which
the attendance is required, or in which the issue is pending;

2. To require attendance out of court before a judge, justice, or other
ohicer authorized to administer oaths or take testimony in any matter,
under the laws of this Territory, it shall be issued by the judge, justice, or
other officer— before whom the attendance is required;

7 3. To require attendance before a. commissioner appointed to take testimony by a court of any other State or country, it may be issued by any
judge or justice of the peace, in places Within their respective jurisdictions.

SEC. 406. The service of a subpoena shall be made by showing the
original, and delivering a copy, or a ticket containing its substance, to the
witness personally, giving or offering to him at the same time, if demanded
by. him, the fees to which he is entitled fortrsavel to and from the (place

designated, and one day’sattendance there. Such service may be ma e by'
any person.

 

SEC. 407. If a witness be concealed in a building or vessel, so as to prevent the service of a subpmna upon him, any, court or judge, or any oiiicer
issuing the subpoena, may, upon proof by affidavit of the concealment and
of the materiality of the witness, make an order that the sheriff of the
county serve the subpoena; and the sheriff shall serve it accordingly, and
for that purpose may break into the building or vessel where the witness is
concealed.

SEC. 408. A person present in court, or before a judicial oii‘icer, maybe
required to testify in the same manner as if he were in attendance upon a
subpoena issued by such court or officer.

SEC. 409. It shall be the duty of a witness duly served with a subpoena,
to attend at the time appointed, with any papers under his control required
by the subpoena, to answer all pertinent and legal questions, and, unless
sooner discharged, to remain till the testimony is closed.

SEC. 410. A witness shall answer questions legal and pertinent to the
matter in issue, though his answer may establish a claim against himself;
but he need not give an answer which will have a tendency to subject him
to punishment for a felony, nor need give an answer which will have a
direct tendency to degrade his character, unless it be to the very fact in
issue or to a fact from which the fact at issue would be presumed. But a
witness shall answer as to the fact of his previous conviction for felony.

SEC. 411. Disobedience to a subpoena, or a refusal to be sworn, or to
answer as a witness, or to subscribe an aiiidavit or deposition when
required, may be punished as a contempt by the court or oiiicer issuing
the subpoena or requiring the witness to be sworn; and if the witness be
a party, his complaint may be dismissed or his answer stricken out,

SEC. 412. A witness disobeying a subpoena shall also forfeit to the party
aggrieved the sum of one hundred dollars and all damages which he may
sustain by the failure of the witness to attend, which forfeiture and
damages may be recovered in a civil action.

SEC. 413. In case of failure of a witness to attend, the court or oiiicer
issuing the subpoena, upon proof of the service thereof and of the failure of
the witness, may issue a warrant to the sheriff of the county to arrest the
witness and bring him before the court or officer where his attendance was
required.

l

SEC. 414. If the witness be a prisoner confined in a jail or prison within
this Territory for any other cause than a sentence for felony, an order for his
examination in the prison upon deposition or for his temporary removal
and production before a court or oilicer for the purpose of being orally
examined, may be made as follows:

1. By the court itself in which the action or special proceedin is pending.
2. By a judge of the supreme court or district court where t e, action or
proceeding is pending, if before a judge or other person out of court.

SEC. 415. Such order can only. be made upon aiiidavit. showing the

nature of the action or proceedmg, the. testimony expected from the
witness, and its materiality.

 

SEC. 416. If the witness be imprisoned in the county where. the action
or proceeding is pending, and for a cause other than a sentence for felony,
his production may be required. In all other cases his examination, when
allowed, shall be taken upon deposition. ‘

SEC. 417. Every person who has been in good faith served with a
subpoena to attend as a witness before a court, judge, commissioner, referee,
or other person, in a case where the disobedience of the witness may be
punished as a contempt, shall be exonerated from arrest in a civil action
While going to the place of attendance, necessarily remaining there, and
returning therefrom. ' '

SEC. 418. The arrest of a witness contrary to the last section shall be
void, but an officer shall not be liable to the party for making the arrest in
ignorance of the facts creating the exoneratlon, but shall be liable for any
subsequent detention of the party, if such party claim the exemption and
make an aiiidavit stating:

1‘. That he has been served with a subpmna to attend as a witness before a
court, oliicer, or other person, Specifying the same, the place of attendance,
and the action or proceeding in which the subpoena was issued; and

2. That he has not been thus served by his own procurement, with the
intention of avoiding an arrest. '

3. That he is, at the time, going to the place of attendance or returning
therefrom, or remaining there in obedience to the subpoena. The aiiidavit
may be taken by the oiiicer, and shall exonerate him from liability for discharging the witness when arrested.

SEC. 419. No action to obtain a discovery, under oath, in aid of the pro-.
secution or defense of another action or proceeding shall be allowed; nor
shall any examination of a party be had on behalf of the adverse party,
except in the manner prescribed by this chapter.

SEC. 420. A party to an' action or proceeding may be examined as a Witness at his own instance or at the instance of the adverse party, or of any
one of several adverse parties; and, for that purpose, may be compelled in
the same manner and subject to the same rules of examination as any other
witness, to testify at the trial, and he may be examined on a commission.

SEC. 421. The examination of a party thus taken may be rebutted by
adverse testimony. '

SEC. 422. If a party refuse to attend and testify at the trial, or to give
his deposition before trial, or upon a commission, when required—his complaint, answer, or reply may be stricken out and judgment be taken against
him; and he may also, in the discretion of the' court, be proceeded against
as in other cases for a contempt.

SEC. 423. A party examined by an adverse party, as in this chapter provided, may be examined on his own behalf in respect to any matter perti 

neat to the issue. But, if he testify to any new matter not responsive to
the inquiries put to him by the adverse party, or necessary to explain or
qualify his answer thereto, or to discharge, when his answer would charge
himself, such adverse party may oii'er himself as a witness on his own
behalf in respect to such new matter, and shall be so received.

SEC. 424. A person for whose iminediate benefit the action is prosecuted
or defended, though not a party to the action, may be examined as a witness in the same manner, and subject to the same rules of examination as
other Witnesses.

SEC. 425. A party may be examined on the part of his co-plaintiii' or a
co- defendant.

SEC. 426. An aiiidavit to be used before any court, judge, board, or pilicer of this Territory, may be taken before any judge or clerk of any court,
or any justice of the peace or notary public in this Territory.

SEC. 427. An affidavit- taken in another State of the United States, to be
used in this Territory, shall be taken before a commissioner appointed b
the governor of this Territory to take aiiidavits and depositions in such
other State, or before any judge of a éourt of record having a seal.

SEC. 428. An a‘fiidavit taken in a foreign country to be used in this Territory, shall be taken before an ambassador, minister, or consul of the
United States; or before any judge of a court of record having a seal in
such foreign country.

SEC. 429. When an affidavit is taken before a judge of a court in another
State, or in a foreign country—thegenuineness of the signature of the
judge, the existence of the court, and the fact that such judge is a member
thereof, shall be certified by the clerk of the court under the seal
thereof. ‘

SEC. 430. The testimony of a Witness in this Territory may be taken by
deposition in an action at any time after the service of the summons or the ‘
appearance of the defendant; and in a Special proceeding after a question
of fact has arisen therein, in the following cases:

1st. When the witness is a party to the action or proceeding, or a person
for whose immediate benefit the action or proceeding is prosecuted or
defended;

2d. When the witness resides out of the county in which hi testimony
is to be used, or more than fifty miles from the place of trial; ‘

3d. When the Witness is about to leave the county where the action
is to be tried, and will probably continue absent when the testimony is
required. '

4th. When the witness, otherwise liable to attend the trial, is nevertheless too infirm to attend. ' ‘

 

SEC. 431. Either party may have the depOsitiOn taheh of a witness in
this Territory, before any judge or clerk, or any justice of the peace, or
notary public in this Territory, on serving upon the adverse party previous
notice of the time and place “of examination, 't‘Ogether With 'a copy of an
afiida'vit shovving that the case is one mentioned in the last section. such
notice shall be at least five days, and in addition one day for every twentyfive miles of the distance to the place of examination from the residence
of thepe'rson to whom the notice is given, unleSs for a cause shOWn a judge,
by Order, prescribe a shorter time. When a shorter time is prescribed, a
copy of that order shall be served with‘ the notice.

SEC. 432. Either party mayattend suCh examination an‘dput such questions, direct and cross, as may be proper. The deposition, When completed,
shall be carefully read to the witness and 'c‘o‘rreCte'd by him in any particu«
lar, if desired; it shall then be subscribed by the witness, certified by the
judge er oiiicer taking the deposition, enclosed in an envelope or wrapper,
sealed, and directed to the clerk of the court in ‘which’the action is pending, ’
or to such person as the parties in writing may agree upon, and either '
delivered by the judge cr‘oiiicer to the ‘clerk or such p‘e'rs‘On, or transmitted
through the mail, or by some safe private Opportunity; and thereupon such
deposition may be used by either party upon the trial or other proceeding,
. against any party giving or receiving the notice, subjeCt to all legal exceptions. But if the parties attend at the examination, no- objection to the
form of an interrogatory shall be made at thetrial, unless the same was
stated at the time of the ‘eXamin atio'n. If the deposition be taken by
reason of the absence or intended absence from the county of the witness,
er because he is too infirm to attend, proof by affidavit or oral testimony
s all be made at the trial that the witnesscontinue‘s absent or infirm, to the
best of the deponent’s knowledge or belief. The deposition thus taken
may be also read in case of the death of the witness.

SEC. 433. When 'a deposition has been oboe “taken it may be read in any
stage of the same action or proceeding by either party, and shall then be
deemed the evidence of the party reading it.

SEC. 434. The testimony of a witness out of the Territory may be taken
by deposition in anpaction at, any time after the service of the summons or
the appearance of the defendant; and in a special proceeding, at any tiine
after a question of fact has arisen therein.

SEC. 435. The deposition of a Witness out of this Territory, shall be taken
upon commission iss‘ued from the court, under the seal of the court, upon
an order from the judge '0r court, on the application of either party, upon
five days’ previous notice to the. other. It shall be issued to 'a person
agreed upon by the parties, or if they do not agree, to any judge or justiceof the peace selected by the oiiicer granting the Commission, or toa
commissioner appointed by the governor of this Territory to take affidavits
and depositions in other States. - \‘

SEC. 436. Such proper interrogatories, direct and cross, as the respective
parties may prepare, to be settled if the parties disagree as to their form
by the judge or oiiicer granting the. order for the commissiOn, at a day
fixed in the order, may be annexed to the commission; or when the parties
agree to that mode, the examination may be without written interrogatories.

SEC. 437. The commission shall authorize the commissioner to administer
an oath to the witness, and to take his deposition in answer to the interrogatories, or when the examination is to be without interrogatories in respect
to the question in dispute; and to certify the deposition to the court in a
sealed envelope directed to the clerk or other person design'atedor agreed
upon, and forwarded to him by mail or other usual channel of conveyance.

SEC. 438. A trial or other proceeding shall not be postponed by reason
of a commission not returned, except upon evidence satisfactory to the
court that the testimony of the witness is necessary, and that proper diligence has been used to obtain it. 0f Proceedings to Perpetuate Testimony.

SEC. 439. The testimony of a witness .may be taken and perpetuated, as
provided in this chapter. '

SEC. 440. The applicant shall produce to a district judge, or to a judge .
.of probate, an afljdavit stating: .

1. That the applicant expects to be a party to an action in a court of
this Territory;

2. That the testimony of a witness residing in this Territory, whose place
of residence is stated, is necessary to the prosecution or defense of such
action ; and generally the facts expected to be proved ; ‘

3. The judge may thereupon, in his discretion, make an order allowing
the examination, and prescribing how long before the examination the
order and notice of the time and place thereof shall be served.

SEC. 441. Upon proof of personal service upon the erson who is expected
to be the adverse party, of the order, copy of. the a davit, and of a notice
that the examination will be taken before a district judge or notary public
of the county wherein the witness resides, or may be at a specified time
and place; such judge or notary may take the deposition of the witness,
and the examination may, if necessary, be adjOurned from time to time.

SEC. 442. The examination shall be byquestion and answer, unless the
parties otherwise agree. The deposition, when completed, shall be carefully read to and subscribed by the witness, then certified by the judge,
and immediately thereafter filed and recorded in the office of the clerk of
the county where it was taken ; together with the order for the examination of the witness, the affidavit on which the same was granted, and the
affidavit of service of the affidavit, order, or notice.

SEC. 443. The atiidavits filed with the deposition, or a certified copy
thereof, shall be primary evidence of the facts stated therein, to show compliance with the provisions of this chapter. ‘

SEC. 444. If a trial he had between the persons named in the atiidavit as
parties expectant, or their successors in interest, upon proof of the death
or insanity of the witness, or of his inability to attend the trial by reason

 

of age, sickness, or settled infirmity, the deposition, or a certified copy
thereof, may be used by either party, subject to all legal objections. But
if the parties attend at the examination, no objection to the form of an
interrogatory shall be made at the trial, unless the same was stated at the
time of the examination.

SEC. 445. Every court of this Territory, every judge or clerk of any court,
every justice of the peace, and every notary public, and every officer authorized to take testimony or to decide upon evidence in any proceeding, shall
have power to administer oaths or afiirmations.
‘ e

SEC. 446. When a person is sworn who believes in any other than the
Christian religion, he may be sworn according to the peculiar ceremonies of
his religion, if there be any such.

SEC. 447. Any witness who desires it may, at his option, instead of taking
an oath, make his solemn affirmation or declaration, by assenting when
addressed, in the following form: “ You do solemnly affirm, that the evidence you shall give in this issue (or matter), pending between ~ and
~ , shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.”
Assent to this amrmation shall be-made by the answer: “ I do.” A false

. amimation or declaration shall be deemed perjury equally with a false
oat .

SEC. 448. Any court in which an action is pending, or a judge thereof,
may, upon notice, order either party to give to the other within a specified
time an inspection and copy, or permission to take a copy of any book,
document, or paper in his possession or under his control, containing evidence relating to the merits of the action, or the defense therein. If compliance with the order be refused, the court may exclude the book, document, or paper from being given in evidence; or if wanted as evidence
by the party applying, may direct the jury to presume it to be such as he
alleges it to be; and the court may also punish the party refusing for a
contempt. This section shall not be construed to prevent a party from compelling another to produce books, papers, or documents, when he is examined as a witness.

SEC. 449. There shall be no evidence of the contents of a writing other than
the writing itself, except in the following cases:

1. When the original has been lost or destroyed ; in, which case proof of

the loss or destruction shall first be made. ' .
_ 2. When‘the original is in the possessionof the party against whom the

evidence is Offered, and he fails to produce it after reasonable notice.

3. When the original is a record or other document, in custody of a public ofIice. ,

4. When the original has been recorded, and a certified copy of the
record is made evidence by statute.

5. When the original consists of numerous accounts or other documents,

 

which cannot be e‘Xamined in Court without great loss of time, and the evideuce sought from them is only the general result of the whole.

SEC. 450. The party producing a writing as genuine, which has been
altered, or appears to have been altered, after its execution, in ‘a part material to the question in dispute, and such alteration is not noted on the writing, shall account for the appearance“ or alteration. He may show that the
alteration was made by another, without his concurrence, or was made with
the consent of the parties affected by it, or otherwise properly or innocently
made. If he do that, he may give the writing in evidence, but not otherWISec.

SEC. 451. A judicial record of this Territory or of the United States, may
be proved by the production of the original, or a copy thereof, certi’ded by
the clerk or other person having the legal custody thereof, under the seal
of the court, to be a true copy of such record; and copies of all papers,
entries, documents, and records required by law to be filed by any public
officer of this Territory or of the United States, in his oliice, or to be entered
or recorded therein, and duly filed, entered, or recorded according to law,
certilied by such oliicer to be a true transcript compared by him with the
Original in his ‘oiiice, shall be evidence in all courts and proceedings, in like
manner as the original Would be if produced. '

SEC. 452. A judicial record of any State or Territory may be proved by
the production of a copy thereof, certified by the clerk or legal keeper of
the record, under the seal of the court, to be a true copy of such record,
together with the certificate of a judge of the court, that the person making the certiiiCate is the clerk of the “court, or legal keeper of the record, and
in either case that the signature is genuine, and the certificate in due form.

SEC. 453. A judicial record of ‘a foreign Country may be proved by the
production of a copy thereof, certified by the clerk, with the seal of the
court annexed, if there be a clerk and seal; or by the legal keeper of the
‘ record with the seal of his office annexed, if there be a seal, to be a true
' copy of such record; together with 'a certificate of a judge of the cOurt,
that the person making the certificate is the clerk of the court, or the legal
keeper of the reCOrd, and in either case, that the signature is genuine, and
the certificate in due form; and also, together with the certificate of the
minister or ambassador of the United States, or of a consul of the United
States in such foreign country, that there is such a court, specifying generally the nature of its jurisdiction, and verifying the signature of the judge
and clerk, or other legal keeper of the record.

SEC. 454. A Copy of the judicial record of a foreign country shall also be
admissible in evidence upon prOof :

1. That the copy offered has been compared by the Witness With the original, and is an exact transcript of the Whole of it. .

2. That such original was in the custody of the clerk of the ‘court, or
other legal keeper of the same—and, '

3. That the copy is duly attested by a seal, which is proved to be the
seal of the court Where the record remains, if it be the record of a court;
or if there be no such seal, or if it be not a record of a court, by the signature of the legal keeper of the original.

SEC. 455. Printed copies in volumes of statutes, code, or‘ other written

 

law, enacted by any other State/or Territory, or .foreign government, purporting or proved to have been published by ‘the authority thereof, 01"
proved to be commonly admitted as evidence of the existing law in the
courts and judicial tribunals of such State, Territory, or government, shall
be admitted by the courts and oiiicers of this Territory, on all occasions, as
presumptive evidence of such law.

SEC. 456. A seal of a court or public oliioe,  required to any writ
or process, or proceeding, or to authenticate a cepy of any record or document, may be impressed with wax, wafer, or any other substance, and then
attached to the writ, process, or proceeding, or to the copy of the record
or document, or it may be impressed on the paper alone.

SEC. 457. The writ of certiomrz’ may be denominated the writ of review.

SEC. 458. This writ may be granted on application by the supreme and
district courts of this Territory ; the writ shall be granted in all cases when
an inferior tribunal, board, or oiiicer, exercising judicial functions, has
exceeded the jurisdiction of such tribunal, board, or oiii‘eer; and there is
no appeal, nor, in the judgment of the court, any plain, speedy, and adequate remedy.

SEC. 459. The application shall be made on ailida‘vit by the party beneficially interested, and the court may require a notice of the application to
be given to the adverse party, or may grant an order to show cause why it
should not be allowed, or may grant the Writ without notice.

SEC. 460. The writ may be directed to the inferior tribunal, board, or
officer, or to any other erson having the custody of the record or proceedings to be certified. hen directed to a tribunal, the clerk, if there be
one, shall return the writ with the transcript required.

SEC. 461. The writ of review shall command the party to whom it is
directed to certify fully to the court issuing the writ, at a Specified time and

lace, and annex to the writ a transcript of the record and proceedings
{describing or. referring to them, with convenient certainty), that the same
may be reviewed by the court; and requiring the party in the meantime
to desist from further proceedings in the matter to be reviewed.

SEC. 462. If a stay of proceedings be not intended, the words requiring
the stay shall be omitted from the writ; these words may be inserted or
omitted in the sound discretion of the court; but if omitted, the power of
the inferior court or officer shall not be suspended, nor the proceedings stayed.

SEC. 463. The writ shall be served in the same manner as a summons in
civil action, except when otherwise expressly directed by the court.

SEC. 464. The review upon this writ shall not be extended further than to
determine whether the inferior tribunal, board, or oliicer, has regularly .
pursued the authority of such tribunal, board, or oihcer.

SEC. 465. If the return to the writ be defective, the court may order a
further return to be made. When a full return has been made, the court
shall proceed to hear the parties, or such of them as may attend for that
purpose, and may thereupon give judgment, either afiirming or annulling,
or modifying the proceedings below.

SEC. 466. A copy of the judgment, signed by the clerk; shall be transmitted to the inferior tribunal, board, or officer having the custody of the
record or proceeding certified up.

SEC. 467. A copy of the judgment, signed by the clerk, entered ,upon,
or attached to, the writ and return, shall constitute the judgment-roll. If
the proceeding be had in any other than the supreme court, an appeal may
be taken from the judgment in the same manner, and upon the same terms,
as from a judgment in a civil action. ‘

SEC. 468. The writ of mandamus may be denominated the writ of
mandate. ,

SEC. 469. It may be issued by the supreme or district court to any inferior tribunal, corporation, board, or person, to compel the performance of
an act which the law specially enjoins as a duty resulting from an office,
trust, or station; or to compel the admission of a party to the use and
enjoyment of a right or office to which he is entitled, and from which he
is unlawfully precluded by such inferior tribunal, corporation, board, or
person.

SEC. 470. This writ shall be issued in all cases where there is not a plain,
speedy, and adequate remedy in the ordinary course of law. It shall be
issued upon affidavit, on the application of the party beneficially interested.

SEC. 471. The writ shall be either alternative or peremptory; the alternative writ shall state generally the allegation against the party to whom
it is directed, and command such party, immediately after the receipt of
the writ, or at some other specified time, to do the act required to be performed, or to show cause before the court, at a specihed time and place,
Why he has not done so. The peremptory writ shall be in a similar form,
except that the words'requiring the party to show cause why he has
not doge as commanded shall be omitted, and a return day shall be
inserte .

SEC. 472. When the application to the court is made without notice to
the adverse party, and the writ be allowed, the alternative shall be first
issued; but if the application be upon due notice, and the writ be allowed,
the peremptory may be issued in the first instance. The notice of the
application, when given, shall be at least ten days. The writ shall not be
granted by default. The case shall be heard by the court, whether the
adverse party appear or not. . .

SEC. 473. On the return day of the alternative, or the day on which the
application of the writ is noticed, or such further day as the court may
allow, the party on whom the writ or notice shall have been served may
show cause by answer under oath, made in the same manner as an answer
to a complaint in a civil action. ' " .

SEC. 474. If an answer be made which raises a question as to a matter of
fact essential to the determination of the motion, and affecting the substantial rights of the parties, and upon the supposed truth of the allegation of
which the application for the writ is based, the court may, in its discretion,
order the question to be tried before a jury, and postpone the argument
until such trial can be had, and the verdict certified to the court. The
question to be tried shall be distinctly stated in the order for trial, and the
county shall be designated in which the same shall be 'had. The order may
also direct the jury to assess any damages which the applicant may have
sustained in case they find for him.

SEC. 475. On the trial the applicant shall not be precluded by the answer
of any valid objection to its sufliciency, and may countervail it by proof
either in direct denial or by way of avoidance.

SEC. 476. If either party be dissatisfied with the verdict of the jury, he
may move for a new trial upon a statement prepared as provided in section
195. The motion for a new trial may, upon reasonable notice, be brought
on before the judge of the court in which the cause was tried, either in term
or vacation. If a new trial be granted, the jury shall, within five days
thereafter, unless the parties agree on a longer time, be summoned to try

the issue. After a second verdict in favor of the same party, a new trial
shall not be had. a

SEC. 477. If no notice for a new trial be given, or if given, be denied, the
clerk, within five days after the rendition of the verdict or denial of the
motion, shall transmit to the court in which the application for the writ is
pending, a certified copy of the verdict attached to the order of trial;
after which either party may bring on the argument of the application,
upon reasonable notice to the adverse party. ‘

SEC. 478. If no answer be made, the case shall be heard on the papers of
the applicant. If an answer be made which does not raise a question such
as is mentioned in section 474, but only such matters as may be explained
or avoided by a reply, the court may, in its discretion, grant time for replying. If the answer, or answer and reply, raise only questions of law, or put
in issue immaterial statements, not affecting the substantial rights of the

parties, the court shall proceed to hear, or fix a day for hearing, the argument of the case.

SEC. 479. If judgment be given for the applicant, he shall recover the
damages which he shall have sustained as found by the jury, or as may be
determined by the court or referees, upon a reference to be ordered,
together with costs; and for such damages and costs an execution may
issue ; and a peremptory mandate shall also be awarded without delay.

SEC. 480. The writ shall be served in the same manner as a summons in a
civil action, except when otherwise exPressly directed by order of the court.

SEC. 481. When a peremptory mandate has been issued and directed to
any. inferior tribunal, corporation, board, or person, if it appear to the court
that any member of such tribunal, corporation, or board, or such person

 

upon whom. the. Writ has been personally served, has, without just, excuse,
refused or neglected to obey the same, the court may, upon motion, impose
a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars. In case of persistence in a refusal
of obedience, the court may order the party. to be imprisonedfor a period
not exceeding three months, and may take any orders necessary and proper
for the completerenforcement of the writ. If a fine be imposed upon a judgeor officer who draws a salary from. the Territory or county, 3. certified copyof the order shall. be forwarded to the Territorial or county treasurer, as,
the case may be, and the amount thereof may be retained from the salaryof such judge or oiiicer. Such judge or odicer, for his willful disobedience,
shall also be. deemed guilty of a misdemeanor in oiiice.

SEC. 482. The following acts or omissions shall be deemed contempts:

1. Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior towards the judge
whilst holding court, or engaged in his judicial duties at chambers, or
towards referees or arbitrators whilst sitting on a reference or. arbitration,_,
tending to interrupt the due course of a, trial, reference, or arbitration, or
other judicial proceeding.

2. A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct, or violent disturbance in.
presence of the. court or: its immediate vicinity, tending to interrupt the
due course of a trial, or other judicial proceeding.

3. Disobedience or resistance to any lawful writ, order, rule, or process
issued by the court or judge at chambers.

4s Disobedience of a subpoena duly served, or refusing to be sworn or
answer as a witness.

5. Rescuing any person or property in the custody of any oiiicer, by
virtue of an order or process of such court or judge at chambers.

SEC. 483. When a contempt is committed in the immediate view and
presence of the court or judge at chambers, it may be punished summarily;
for which an order shall be made reciting the facts as occurring in such
immediate view and presence, adjudging that the person proceeded against
is thereby uilty of a contempt, and that he be punished as therein prescribed. When the contempt is not committed in the immediate view and
presence of the court or judge at chambers, an aiiidavit shall be presented
to the court or judge of the facts constituting the contempt, Or a statement
of the facts by the referees or arbitrators. '

SEC. 484. When the contempt is not committed in the immediate view
and presence of the court or judge, a warrant of attachment may be issued
to bring the person charged to answer, or without a previous arrest, a.
warrant of commitment may upon notice, or upon an order to show cause,
be granted; and no warrant of commitment shall be issued without such
I previous attachment to answer, or such notice or order to show cause.

SEC. 485. Whenever a warrant of attachment is issued pursuant to this chapter, the court. or judge shall direct whether the person charged may
be -let to bail for his appearance upon the warrant, or detained in custody
without bail ; and if he may be bailed, the amount in which he may be let
to bail. The directions given in this respect shall be specified in the
warrant, or endorsed thereon.

 

SEC. 486. Upon executing the warrant of attachment, the sheriff shall
keep the person in custody, bring him before the court or judge, and detain
him until an order be made in the premises, unless the person arrested,
entitle himself to be discharged, as provided inthe next section.

SEC. 487. When adirection to let the person arrested to bail is contained
in the warrant of attachment, or endorsed thereon, he shall be discharged
from the arrest, upOn executing and delivering to the oilicer, at any time
before the return day of the warrant, a written undertaking, with two
sufficient sureties, to the effect that the person arrested will appear on the
return of the warrant, and abide the order ‘of the court or judge thereupon ;,
or they will pay as may be directed the sum specified in the warrant. '

SEC. 488. The oliicer shall return the warrant of arrest and the undertaking, if any, received by him from the person arrested, by the return day
specified therein. ‘

SEC. 489. When the person arrested has been brought up or appeared,
‘ the court or judge shall proceed to investigate the charge, and shall hear
any answer which the person arrested may make to the same, and may

examine witnesses for or against him, for Which an adjournment may be
had from time to time, if necessary.

SEC. 490. Upon the answer and evidence taken, the court or judge shall
determine whether the person proceeded against is guilty of the contempt
charged, and if it be adjudged that he is guilty of the contempt, a line may
be imposed on him not exceeding five hundred dollars, or he may be
imprisoned not exceeding five days, or both.

SEC. 491. When the centempt consists in the emission to perform an act
which it is yet in the power of the person to perform, he may be imprisoned

until he have performed it, and in that case the act shall be specified in the
Warrant of commitment.

SEC. 492. Persons proceeded against according to the provisions of this chapter, shall also be liable to indictment for the same misconduct, if it be
an indictable offense; but the court before which a conviction is had on

the indictment, in passing sentence, shall take into consideration the
punishment before indicted.

SEC. 493. When the warrant of arrest has been returned served, if the
person arrested do not appear on the return day, the court or judge may
issue another warrant of arrest, or may order the undertaking to be
prosecuted, or both. If the undertaking be prosecuted, the measure of
damages in the action shall be the extent of the loss or injury sustained by.

the aggrieved party, by reason of the misconduct for which 'the warrant
was issued, and the costs of the proceedings.

SEC. 494. Whenever by the provisions of this chapter an oil‘icer is
required to keep a person arrested on a warrant of attachment in custody,
and to bring him before a court or judge, the inability from illness or
otherwise of the person to attend shall be a suiiicient excuse for not
bringing him up; and the oilicer shall not confine a person arrested upon
the warrant in a prison, or otherwise restrain him of personal liberty,
except so far as may be necessary to secure his personal attendance.

 

SEC. 495. The judgment and orders of the court or judge made in cases
of contempt, shall be final and conclusive. The punishment shall be by fine
or by imprisonment, but no fine shall exceed the sum of five hundred dollars,
and no imprisonment shall exceed the period of five days, except as
provided in section four hundred and ninety-one.

SEC. 496. The measure and mode of compensation of attorneys and
counsellors shall be left t the agreement, express or implied, of the parties.
But there shall be allo ed to the prevailing party in any action in the
supreme court and district courts, certain, sums by way of indemnity for
his expenses in, the action, or special proceeding in the nature of an action,
which allowances are in this chapter termed costs.

SEC. 497. Costs shall be allowed of course to the plaintifff upon a
judgment in his favor, in the following cases: '- ’

I. In an action for the recovery of real property ;

2. In an action toirecover the possession of personal property, when the
value of the property amounts to one hundred dollars or over. Such value
shall be determined by the jury, court, or referee by whom the action is tried;

3. In an action for the recovery of money or damages where plaintifff
recovers one hundred dollars or over;

4. In a special proceeding in the nature of an action.

SEC. 498. When several actions are brought on one bond, undertaking,
promissory note, bill of exchange, or other instrument in writing, or in any
other case for the same cause of action, against ~se‘veral parties who might
have been joined as defendants in the same action, no costs shall be allowed
to the plaintifff in more than one of such actions, which may be at his
election, if the party proceeded against in the other actions were at the
commencement of the previous action openly within this Territory; but
the disbursements of the plaintifff shall be allowed to him in each action. '

SEC. 499. Costs shall be allowed of course to the defendant upon a judgment in his favor in the actions mentioned in section 497, and in a special
proceeding in the nature of an action.

SEC. 500. In other actions than those mentioned in section 497, costs
may be allowed or not; and if allowed, may be apportioned between the
parties, on the same or adverse sides, in the discretion of the court; but
no costs shall be allowed in an action for the recOvery of money or damages
when the plaintifff recovers less than one hundred dollars, nor in an action
to recover_the possession of personal property,-when the value of the property is less than one hundred dollars.

SEC. 501. When there are several defendants in the actions mentioned in section 497, not united in interest, and making separate defenses by separate answers, and the plaintifff fails to recover judgment against all, the
court shall award costs to such of the defendants as have judgment in their
favor. 

SEC. 502. In the following cases the costs of an appeal shall be in the
discretion of the court: ‘

 

1. When a new— trial is ordered;
.2. When a judgment is modified.‘

SEC. 503. When allowed, costs shall be as follows:

1.. For all proceedings previous to the issue; twenty dollars;

2. For the trial of every issue of fact, and the argument of every issue
of law in an, action, or special proceeding in the nature of an action, thirty
dollars; . ' - ‘

3. For the argument of eVery contested motion in the progress of an
action, or special proceeding in the nature of an action, ten dollars;

4. For proceedings subsequent to .trial or argument, until judgment or
appeal, ten dollars; , I ‘ '

5. For the argument of every appeal, thirty dollars;

6. For proceedings subsequent to the argument of the appeal, until judgment is entered thereon, twenty dollars.

SEC. 504. In actions for the recovery of money or damages, or the possession of personal property, or for the recovery of real property, the
plaintifff shall be entitled to the additional allowance of five per cent. on the
first one thousand dollars, and two per cent. on all ov that sum, u on the
amount of the verdict, or the value of the property If overed; sue value
to be determined at the trial, or at the time the judgment is applied for, in
case no answer shall have been put in. In the actions specified in this section, the defendant, in case of judgment ‘for the defendant, shall be
entitled to a similar percentage on the amount or the value of, the property
claimed by the plaintifff. But such allowance shall in no case exceed five
hundred dollars: Provided, that in any action, or special proceedingin'the
nature of an action, which may be dismissed or discontinued at the instance .
of either party, no percentage shall be allowed as herein provided.

SEC. 505. When recovery is had upon failure of the defendant togansw-er,
the plaintifff shall be entitled to recover as follows:

1'. In actions for the recovery of real property, and. in actions in which;
the taking of an account, or the examination of a long account, or the
proof of any fact, shall be necessary to enable the court to carry the judg.
ment into effect, and a reference be ordered to take or examine the account
‘ or determine the fact; and in actions in which a jury shall be calledto
determine a fact necessary to carry the judgment into en’ect, or toassegs.
damages, the same costs as in actions in which issues are joined ;,

' 2. In other actions, thirty dollars.

SEC. 506. The fees of referees shall be hve dollars to each for every day’
spent in the business of the reference; but the parties may agree in writing
upon any other rate of compensation, and thereupon such. rate shall. b allowed. ‘

SEC. 507. When an application is, made to a court or referee’topostpone
a trial, the payment to the adverse party of a sum not exceeding twenty
dollars, besides the fees of witnesses, may be imposed as the condition of"
granting the postponement. ‘

SEC. 508. When in an action for the recovery of money only, the defendant alleges in his answer that before the commencement of the action he
tendered to the plaintifff the full amount to which he was entitled, and; ' '

thereupon deposits in court for the plaintifff the amount so tendered, and
the allegation be found to be true, the plaintifff shall not recover costs, but
shall pay costs to the defendant. ’

SEC. 509. In an action prosecuted or defended by an executor, administrator, trustee of express trust, or a person eXpressly authorized by statute,
costs may be recovered as ,in action by and against a person prosecuting

. or defending in his own right; but such costs shall by the judgment be
made chargeable only upon the estate, fund, or arty represented, unless
the court shall direct the same to be paid by the plaintifff or defendant personally, for mismanagemwt or bad faith in the action or defense.

SEC. 510. When the decision of a court of inferior jurisdiction in a
special proceeding is brought before a court of higher Jurisdiction for a
review in any other way than by appeal, the same costs shall be allowed

. as in cases on appeal, and may be collected by execution or in such manner
as the court may direct, according to the nature of the case.

SEC. 511. On the commencement of an action, the plaintifff, and on the
filing of notice of ap eal from a final udgment, the appellant, shall pay to
the clerk three dolla , to be applied towards the district law library under
the order of the judge. '

SEC. 512. The party in whose favor judgment is rendered and who
claims his costs, shall deliver to the clerk of the court a memorandum of
the items of the costs to which he is entitled. He may include in the costs
all the necessary disbursements in the action or proceeding, including the
fees of officers allowed by law, the fees of witnesses, the necessary expenses,
taking depositions by commission or otherwise, the compensation of referees,
and the fees paid on the commencement of the action or on filing the
notice of appeal. The memorandum shall be accompanied by the affidavit
of the party that the items are correct to the best of his knowledge and
belief, and that the disbursements have been necessarily incurred in the
action. The memorandum and affidavit shall be delivered to the clerk
within three days after the rendition of the verdict.

SEC. 513. The clerk shall include in the judgment entered up by him

the costs, the percentage allowed,'and any interest on the verdict from
the time it was rendered.

SEC. 514. When the plaintifff in an action resides out of the TerritOry, or
is a foreign corporation, security for the costs and charges which may be
awarded against such plaintifff 'may be required by the defendant. When
required, all proceedings in the action shall he stayed until an undertaking,
executed by two or more persons, be filed with the clerk to the effect that
they will pay such costs and charges as may be awarded against the plaintifff
by judgment or in the progress of the action, not exceeding the sum of
three hundred dollars. A new or an additional undertakmg may be
ordered by the court or judge upon proof that the original undertaking is

'insuiiicient security, and proceedings in the action stayed until such new
or'additional undertaking be executed and filed.

SEC. 515. Each of the sureties on the undertaking mentioned in the last 7 section shall annex to the same an affidavit that he is a resident and householder 1. or freeholder within the county,rand is worth double the amount

 

specified in the undertaking over and above all his just debts and liabilities,
exclusive of property exempt from execution. ‘

SEC. 516. After the lapse of thirty days from the service of notice that ,
security is required, or of an order for new or additional security, upon
proof thereof, and that no undertaking as required has been filed, the court
or judge may order the action to be dismissed.

SEC. 517. Every direction of a court or judge made or entered in writing,
and not included in a judgment, is denominated an order. An application
for an order is a motion.

SEC. 518. Motions shall be made in the county in which the action is
brought, or in an adjoining county in the same district. _ ‘

SEC. 519. When a written notice of a motion is necessary, it shall— be
given, if the court be held in the same district with both parties, hve days
before the time appointed for the hearing; otherwise ten days, but the
court or judge may prescribe a shorter time.

SEC. 520. When a notice of a motion is given, or an order to show cause
is made returnable before a judge out of court, and at the time fixed for
the motion, or on the return day of the order, the judge is unable to hear
the parties, the matter may be transferred by his order to some other judge
before whom it might originally have been brought.

SEC. 521. Written notices and other papers, when required to be served
on the party or attorney, shall be served in the manner prescribed in the
next three sections, when not otherwise provided; but nothing in this chapter
shall be applicable to original er final process, or any proceedings to bring
a party into contempt. ‘

SEC. 522. The service may be personal, by delivery to the party or attorney on whom the service is required to be made, or it may be as follows:

1st. If upon an attorney, it may be made during his absence from his
office, by leaving the notice or other papers with his clerk therein, or with
a pers(n having charge thereof; or when there is no person in the office,
by leaving them, between the hours of eight in the morning and six in the
afternoon, in a conspicuous place in the oiiice ; or if it be not open, so as
to admit of such service, then by leaving them at the attorney’s residence
with some person of suitable age and discretion; and if his residence be
not known, then by putting the same, enclosed in an envelope, into the
post-odice,’directed to such attorney. ‘

2d. If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the notice or other paper at
his residence between the hours of eight in the morning and six in the evening, with some person of suitable age and discretion; and if his residence
be not known, by putting the same, enclosed in an envelope, into the postoffice, directed to such party. ‘

0

SEC. 523. Service by mail may be made where the person making the

 

service and the rson on whom it is to be made, reside in did'erent places,
between which t ere is a regular communication by mail.

SEC. 524. In case of service by mail, the notice or other paper shall be
deposited in the post-oiiice, addressed to the person on whom it is to be
served, at his place of residence, and the postage paid. And in such case,
the time of service shall be increased one day for every twenty miles distance between the place of the deposit and the place of the address.

SEC. 525. A defendant shall be deemed to appear in an action when he
answers, demurs, or gives the plaintifff written notice of his appearance, or
when an attorney gives notice of appearance for him. After appearance,
a defendant or his attorney shall be entitled to notice of all subsequent
proceedings of which notice is required to be given. But where a defendant has not appeared, service of notice or papers need not be made upon
him, unless he imprisoned for want of bail.

SEC. 526. When a plaintifff or a defendant who has appeared resides out
of the Territory, and has no attorney in the action or proceeding, the service may be made 'on the clerk for him. But in all cases where a party has
an attorney in the action or proceeding, the service of papers, when required,
shall be upon the attorney instead of the party, except of subpoenas, of
writs, and other process issued in the suit, and of papers to bring him into

contempt.

SEC. 527. Successive actions may be maintained upon the same contract
or transaction, whenever, after the former action, a new cause of action

arises therefrom.

SEC. 528. Whenever two or more actions are pending at one time between
the same parties, and in the same court, upon causes of action which might
have been joined, the court may order the actions to be consolidated into

one.

SEC. 529. An action may be brought by one person against another, for
the purpose of determining an adverse claim which the latter makes against
the former for money or property-upon an alleged obligation; and also,
against two or more persons, for the purpose of compelling one to satisfy a
debt due to the other, for which the plaintifff is bound as security. ‘

SEC. 530. The clerk shall keep among the records of the court a register
of actions. He shall enter therein the title of the action, with brief notes
under it, from time to time, of all papers filed and proceedings had therein.

SEC. 531. When there are three referees .or three arbitrators, all shall
meet, but .two of them may do any act which might be done by all.

SEC. 532. The time within which an act is to be done, as provided in this chapter, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last.
If the last day be Sunday it shall be excluded.

SEC. 533. An affidavit, notice, or other paper, without the title of the
action or proceeding in which it is made, or With a defective title, shall be
as valid and effectual for any purpose as if duly entitled, if it intelliginy
refer to such action or proceeding. .  

SEC. 534. When a cause of action has arisen in another State, or in a
foreign country, and by the laws thereof an action thereon cannot there be
maintained against a person by reason of the lapse of time, an action thereon
shall not be maintained against him in this Territory, except in favor of a
citizen thereof, who has held the cause of action from the time it accrued;

SEC. 535. The provisions of this chapter, as to parties to actions, shall be
applicable to actions of which a justice’s court has jurisdiction. ~

SEC. 536. Parties in justices’ courts may prosecute. or defend in person,
or by attorney; and any person, 0n the request of a party, may act as his
attorney, except that the constable by whom the summons or jury process
was served shall not appear or act on the trial in behalf of either party.

SEC. 537. No person shall be held to answer to any summons issued
against him from a justice’s court in civil action in any precinct other than
the one in which he or the plaintifff shall reside, except in the cases following :

1. When there shall be no justice’s court for the precinct or village in
which the defendant or plaintifff may reside, or no justice competent to act
on the case. . '

2. When two or more persons shall be jointly, or jointly and severally
bound in any debt or contract, or otherwise jointly liable in the same action,
and reside in different precincts of the same county, or in different counties,
the plaintifff may prosecute his action in a justice’s court of the precinct or
county in which any of the debtors or other persons liable may reside.

’ 3. In cases of injury to the person, or to real or personal property, the
plaintifff may prosecute his action in the precinct where the injury was committed, or where the defendant may be found.

4. Where personal property, unjustly taken or detained, is claimed, or
damages therefore are claimed, the plaintifff may bring his action in any precinct or county in which the property may be found, or in which the property was taken. ‘ .

5. When the defendant is a non-resident of the county, he may be sued
in any precinct, village, or city wherein he may be found. .

6. When a person has contracted to perform any obligation at a particular place and resides in another, he may be sued in the precinct in which
such obligation is to be performed, or in which he residesr .

7. When the foreclosure ofa mortgage or the enforcement of a lien upon
personal property is sought by the action, the plaintifff may sue in the precinct, village, or city Where the property is situated.

SEC. 538. Judgment, upon confession, may be entered up in any justice’s court in the Territory speciiied in the confession. '

SEC. 539. Justices’ courts shall have jurisdiction of an action upon the
voluntary appearance of the parties, without summons, without regard to
their residences or the place where the cause of action arose, or the subject
matter of the action may exist.

SEC. 540. Actions in justices’ courts shall be commenced by filing a COpy
of the account, note, bill, bond, or instrument upon which the action is
brought; or a concise statement in writing of the cause of action and the
issuance of a summons thereon, or by the voluntary appearance and pleadings of the parties without summons. In the latter case, the action shall
be deemed commenced at the time of appearance. 

SEC. 541. When a guardian is necessary, he shall be appointed by the
justice as follows :— ‘

1. If the infant be plaintifff, the’ appointment shall be made before the
summons is issued, upon the application of the infant, if he be of the age
of fourteen years or upwards; if under that age, upon the application of
some relative or friend. The consent in writing of the guardian to be
"appointed, and to be responsible for costs, if he fail in the action, shall be
first filed with the justice. ' ‘

2. If the infant be defendant, the guardian shall be appointed at the time
the summons is returned, or before the pleadings. It shall be the right of
the infant to nominate his own guardian, if the infant be over fourteen
years of age and the proposed guardian be present and consent in writing
to be appointed. Otherwise, the justice may appoint any suitable person
who gives such consent.

SEC. 542. The summons shall be addressed to the defendant by name or,
if his name be unknown, by a fictitious name; and shall summOn him to
appear before the justice at his office (naming its precinct or village), and
at a time Specified therein—to answer the complaint of the plaintifff, for a
cause of action therein described in general terms, sufiicient to apprise the
defendant of the natureof the claim against him; and, in action for money
or damages, shall state the amount for which the plaintifff will take judgment, if the defendant fail to appear and answer. It shall be subscribed
by the justice before whom it is returnable. ‘ ‘

SEC. 543. The time mentioned in the summons for the appearance ,of the
defendant and the time of service shall be as follows :— ‘

l. \Vhere the summons is accompanied by an order to arrest the defendant, it shall be returnable immediately.
, 2. When the defendant is not a resident of the county, or where the
plaintifff is not a resident and gives the security required by this chapter, it
shall be returnable not more than two days from its date, and shall be served
at least one day before the time for appearance. _

3. In all other cases it shall be returnable in not less than six nor more
than ten days from its date, and. shall be served at least four days before
the time for appearance. ‘ '

SEC. 544. The summons shall be served by the sheriff or a constable of
the county as follows :—

1. If the action be against a corporation, by the delivery of a copy to
the president or other head of the corporation, or to the secretary, cashier,
or managing agent thereof; or when no such officer resides in the county,
to a director or stockholder resident therein ;

 

2. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years, by delivery of a
copy to such minor, and alSo to his father, mother, or guardian ; or if there
be none within the county, then to any person having the care or control
of such minor, or with whom he resides, or in whose service he is ;

3. If against a person judicially declared to be of unsound mind, or incapable of conducting his own affairs, and for whom a guardian has been
appointed, by delivery of a copy to such guardian ;

4. In all other cases, by the delivery of the copy to the defendant personally. 

SEC. 545. If the plaintifff annex to his complaint, or file with the justice
at the time of issuing the summons, a copy of the account or promissory
note, bill of exchange, or other obligation, for the payment of money, or
for a specified amount of property at a valuation fixed therein, upon which
the action is brought, the defendant shall be deemed to admit such account,
note, bill, or obligation, unless be specifically deny the same in his answer,
and verify the answer by his oath. ’

SEC. 546. An order to arrest the defendant may be endorsed on a summons issued by the justice, and the defendant may be arrested thereon by
the sheriff or constable at the time of serving the summons, and brought
before the justice, and there detained until duly discharged in the following cases, arising after the passage of this chapter :—

1. In an action for the recovery of money or damages, on a cause of
action arising upon contract, express or implied; when the defendant is
about to depart from the Territory with intent to defraud his creditors ; or
, where the action is for a willful injury to the person, or for taking, detaining, or injuring personal property ; .

2. In an action for a fme or penalty, or for money or property embezzled
or fraudulently misapplied or converted to his own use by an attorney,
factor, broker,'agent, or clerk, in the course of his employment as such, or
by any other person in a fiduciary capacity;

3. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in contracting the
debt, or incurring the obligation for which the action is brought ;

4. When the defendant has removed, concealed, or disposed of his property, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his creditors. But no
female shall be arrested in any action.

SEC. 547. Before an order for an arrest shall be made, the party applying
shall pfove to the satisfaction of the justice, by the affidavit of himself or
some other person, the facts on which the application is founded. The
plaintifff shall also execute and deliver to the justice a written undertaking,
with two or more sureties, to the effect that if the defendant recover judgment, the plaintifff will pay to him all costs that may be awarded to the
defendant, and all damages which he may sustain by reason of the arrest,
not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which shall be at least

two hundred dollars.

$

SEC. 548. The defendant, imme‘liately upon being arrested, shall be taken
to the office of the justice who made the order, and if he be absent or
unable to try the action,-or if it be made to appear to him by the affidavit
of defendant that he is a. material witness in the action, the oiiicer shall
immediately take the defendant before the nearest justice of the county;
who shall take cognizance of the action, and proceed thereon, as if the
summons had been issued and the order of arrest made by him.

 

SEC. 549. The oiiicer making the arrest shall immediately give notice
thereof to the plaintifff or his attorney or agent, and endorse on the summons and subscribe a certificate, stating the time of serving the same, the
time of the arrest, and of his giving notice to the plaintifff.

SEC. 550. The oiiicer making an arrest shall keep the defendant in custody until duly discharged by order of the justice.

SEC. 551. The defendant under arrest on his appearance with tlie officer
may demand a trial immediately ; and upon such demand being made, the
trial shall not be delayed. beyond three hours, except by the trial of another
action pending at the time; Or he may have an adjournment, and be ,dis—
charged on giving bail, as provided in the next section. An adjournment
at the request of the plaintifff beyond three hours, shall discharge the defendant from arrest, but the action may proceed notwithstanding; and the

defendant shall be subject to arrest on the execution in the game manner as
if he had not been so discharged.

SEC. 552. If the defendant on his appearance demand an adjournment, ‘
the same shall be granted on condition that he execute and file with the
justice an undertaking, with two or more suiiicient sureties, to be approved
by the justice, to the effect that he will render himself amenable to the process of the court during the pendency of the action, and such as may be issued
to enforce the judgment therein; or that the sureties will pay to the plaintifff the amount of any judgment which he may recover in the action. On

filing the undertaking specified in this section, the justice shall order the
defendant to be discharged from custody.

SEC. 553. In an action upon a contract, express or implied, made after the

_ passage of this chapter for the direct payment of money, which contract is

made or is payable in this Territory, and is not secured by mortgage upon

real or personal property, the plaintifff at the time of issuing the summons, or

at any time afterwards, may have the property bf the defendant attached as

security.for the satisfaction of any judgment that may be recovered, unless
the defendant give security to pay such judgment as hereinafter provided.

SEC. 554. A writ to attach the property of the defendant shall be issued
by the justice on receiving an affidavit by or on behalf of the plaintih', showing that the defendant is indebted to the plaintifff (specifying the amount of
such indebtedness over and above all legal. set-offs, or counterclaims) upon

7 a contract express or implied, for the direct payment of money, that such contract was made after the passage of this chapter, and was made or is
payable in this Territory, and that the payment of the same has not, been
secured by any mortgage on real or personal property.

SEC. 555. Before issuing the writthe justice shall require a written undertaking on the part of the plaintifff, with two or more suiiicient sureties, to
'the effect that if the defendant recover judgment, the plaintifff will pay all
costs that may be awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he

may sustain by reason of the attachment. .

SEC. 556. The writ may be directed to the sheriff or any constable of
the county, and shall require him to attach and safely keep all the property
of the defendant within his county not? exempt from execution, or so much
thereof as may be suiiicient to satisfy the plaintifff’s demand, the amount of
which shall be stated in conformity with the complaint, unless the defendant

 

give him security by the undertaking of two sufiicient suret1es,’in an amount
sufficient to satisfy such demand, besides costs; in which case, he take such
undertaking and release such property.

SEC. 557. The sections of this chapter, from section one hundred and
twenty-four to section one hundred and forty-one, both inclusive, shall be
' applicable to attachments issued in justices’ courts, the word “ constable”
being substituted for the word “ sheriff” whenever the writ is directed to
a constable, and the word “justice” being substituted for the word “judge.”

SEC. 558. The plaintifff, in an action to recover the possession of personal
property, may, at the time of issuing the summons, or at anytime before
answer, claim the delivery of such property to him, as provided in this chapter.

SEC. 559. When a delivery is claimed, an affidavit shall be made by the
plaintifff, or by some one in his behalf, shoWing— ’

1. That the plaintifff is the ovOner of the prOperty claimed (particularly
describing it), or is lawfully entitled to the possession thereof. '

2. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant.

3. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, according to his best
knowledge, information, and belief.

4. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or hue, pursuant to a statute ; or seized under an execution, on an attachment against
the property of the plaintifff; or.if seized, that it is by statute exempt from
such seizure; and, i - l

5. The actual value of the property not exceeding one hundred dollars.

SEC. 560. The justice shall thereupon, by an endorsement in writing upon
the aihdavit, order the sheriff or a constable of the county to take the same ‘
from the defendant and deliver it to the plaintifff, upon receiving the undertaking mentioned in the following section. '

SEC. 561. Upon the receipt of the ‘aiiidavit, and order, with a written
undertaking, executed by two or. more suliicient sureties, approved by the
officer, to the effect that they are bound in double the value of the property
as stated in the aihdavit, for the prosecution of theaction, for the return
of the property to the defendant, if return thereof be adjudged, and for
the payment to him of such sum as may, for any cause, he recovered
against the plaintifff, the officer shall forthwith take the property described
in the affidavit, if cit be in the possession of the defendant or his agent, and
retain it in his custody. He shall also, without delay, serve on the defendant a copy of the affidavit, order, and undertaking, by delivering the same
to him personally, if he can be found within the county, or to his agent,
from whose possession the property is taken, or if neither can be found
within the county, by leaving them at the usual place of abode of either
within the county, with some person of suitable age and discretion, or if
neither have any known place of abode within the county, by putting them
into the nearest post-office, directed to the defendant. '

SEC. 562. The defendant may, ‘within two days after the service of a
.copy of the affidavit and undertaking, give notice to the ofhccr that he
excepts to the sufhciency of the sureties. If he fails to do so, he shall be
deemed to have waived all objection to them. When the defendant excepts,
the sureties shall justify on notice before the justice; and the oiiicer shall

 

be responsible for the sufliciency of the sureties until the objection to them '
is either waived as above provided, or until they justify. _If the defendant
except to the sureties, he cannot reclaim the property as provided in the
next section. '

SEC. 563. At any time before the delivery of the property to the plain—
tiff, the defendant may, if he do not except to the sureties of the plaintifff,
require the return thereof, upon giving to the officer a written undertaking,
executed by two or more suHicient- sureties, to the effect that they are
bound, in double the value of the property, as stated in the affidavit of the
plaintifff, for the delivery thereof to the plaintifff, if such delivery be
adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as may for any cause
be recovered against the defendant. If a return of the property be not so
required within two days after the taking and service of notice to the
dlefendant, it shall be delivered to the plaintiE, except as provided in this
0 apter. . ‘

SEC. 564. The defendant’s sureties, upon reasonable notice to the plaintifff, shall justify before the justice; and upon such justification, the oiiicer
shall deliver the property to the defendant. The officer shall be responsi' ble for the defendant’s sureties until they justify, or until the- justification is
completed or eXpressly waived, and may retain the property until that
time; but if they, or others in their place, fail to justify at the time
appointed, he shall deliver the property to the plaintifff.

SEC. 565. If the property or any part thereof be concealed in a building
or enclosure, the oilicer' shall publicly demand its delivery; and if it be not
delivered, he shall cause the building or enclosure to be broken open, and
take the property into his possession.

SEC. 566. When the officer shall have taken property, as in this chapter
provided, he shall keep it in a secure place, and deliver it to the party
entitled thereto, upon receiving his lawful fees for taking, and his necessary
expenses for keeping the same.

SEC. 567. If the property taken be claimed by any other person than the
defendant or his agent, and such person make affidavit of his title thereto,
or right to the possession thereof,“ stating the grounds of such title or right,
and serve the same upon, the officer, the officer shall not be bound to keep
the property, or deliver it to the plaintifff, unless the plaintifff, on demand
of him or his agent, indemnify the officer against such claim by an undertaking, executed by two sufiicient sureties, accompanied by their affidavits,
that they are each worth double the value of the property as specified in
the affidavit “of the plaintifff, over and above their debts and liabilities,
exclusive of property exempt from execution, and are freeholders or householders of the county; and no claim to such property by any other than
the defendant or his agent shall be valid against the oiiicer, unless so
made. ‘

SEC. 568. The officer shall return the order and affidavit, with his proceedings thereon, to the justice within five days after taking the property
mentioned therein. ‘ ‘ ‘

SEC. 569. The qualification of sureties on the several undertakings
required by this chapter in justices’ courts, shall be as follows:

 

1st. Each of them shall be a resident, and householder or freeholder
Within the county.
. 2d. Each shall be worth double the amount stated in the undertaking,
over and above all his debts and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt
from execution.

SEC. 570. For the purpose of justification, each of the sureties shall attend
before the justice at the time mentioned in the ndsice, and may be examined on oath, on the part of the adVerse‘party, touching his sufiiciency, in such
manner as the justice, in his discretion, may think proper. The examination shall be reduced to writing, and subscribed by the sureties if required.

SEC. 571. If the justice find the sureties suiiicient, he shall annex the
examination to the undertaking, endorse his allowance thereon, and file
the same, and the oiiicer shall thereupon be exonerated from liablhty.

SEC. 572. The pleadings in justices’ courts shall be:

1. The complaint by the laintiff, stating the “cause of the action.
2. The answer by the de endant, stating the ground of the defense.

SEC. 573. The pleadings shall be in writing, and verified, by the oath of
the party, his agent,or attorney, when the action is: 1. For the foreclosure of any mortgage, or the enforcement of any lien
on personal property. .

2. For a forcible or unlawful entry upon, or a forcible or unlawful
detention of lands, tenements, or other possessions.

SEC. 574. When the pleadings are oral, the substance of themshall be
entered by the justice in his docket ; when in writing, they shall be filed in
his oiiice, and a reference to them made in the docket. Pleadings shall not
be required to be in any particular form, but shall be such as'to enable a
person of common understanding to know what is intended.

SEC. 575. The complaint shall state in a plain and direct manner the facts
constituting the cause of action. '

SEC. 576. The answer may contain a denial of any of the material facts
stated in the complaint, which the defendant believes to be untrue, and also
a statement, in a plain and direct manner, of any other facts constituting a
defense, or a counterclaim upon which an action may be brought by the
. defendant against the plaintiff in a justices’ court. ‘

SEC. 577. A statement in the answer that the party has not sufiicient knowledge or information in respect to a particular allegation in the previous
pleading of the adverse party to form a belief, shall be deemed equivalent
to a denial.

SEC. 578. When the cause of action or counterclaim arises upon ’an
account or instrument for the payment of money only, it shall be suiiicient
for the party to deliver a copy of the account or instrument to the court,

 

and to state that there is due to him thereupon, from the adverse party, a
specified sum, which he claims to recover or set-off. The court may, at the
~ time of the pleading, require that the original account or instrument be
exhibited to the inspection of the adverse party, and a cepy to be furnished;
or, if it be‘not so exhibited and a copy furnished, may prohibit its being
afterwards given in evidence. ‘

SEC. 579. When the dd'endant, answers the complaint, every material allegation therein, not denied by the answer, shall, on the trial, be taken to be true.

SEC. 580. Either party may object to a pleading of his adversary, or to
any part thereof, that it is not suiiiciently explicit to enable him to understand it, or that it contains no cause of action or defense, although it be
taken as true. If the court deem the objection well founded, it shall order
the pleading to be amended, and if the party refuse to amend, the defective
pleading shall be disregarded. ' . 

SEC. 581. A variance between the proof on the trial and the allegations
in a pleading shall be disregarded as immaterial, unless the court be satis—
.iied that the adverse party has been misled to his prejudice thereby.

SEC. 582. The pleadings may be amended at any time before the trial, to
supply a deficiency or omission, when by such amendment substantial justice will be promoted. If the amendment be made after issue, and it be
i made to appear to the satisfaction of the court by oath that an adjournment
is necessary to the adverse party in consequence of such amendment, an
adjournment shall be granted. The court may also, in (its discretion, require
as a condition of an amendment the payment of costs to the adverse party,

. to be fixed by the court, not exceeding twenty dollars; but such payment
‘ shall not be required unless an adjournment is made necessary by the
amendment; nor shall an amendment be allowed after .a witness is sworn
on the trial, when an adjournment thereby will be made necessary.

SEC. 583. The parties shall not be at liberty to give evidence by which
the question of title toreal property shall be raised on the trial before a
justice, and if it appear from the plaintifff’s own showing on the trial,
or from the answer of the defendant, verified by his oath, or that of his
agent or attorney, that the determination of the action will necessarily
involve the decision of a question of title to real property, the justice shall
suspend all further proceedings in the action and certify the pleadings; or
if the pleadings be oral, a transcript of the same from his docket to the
district court of the county ; and from the time of filing such pleadings or
transcript with the district clerk, the district court shall have over the
action the same jurisdiction as if it were originally commenced therein.
Provided, that when the pleadings or transcript are certified to the. district
court upon the answer of the defendant, he shall file an undertaking with
' two or'more sufiicient sureties to be approved by the justice, to the effect
that they will payall costs of the action if it be decided against him by the
district court. ' v

SEC. 584. If at any time before the trial it appear, to the satisfaction of

the justice before whom the action is brought by affidavit of either party,
that such justice is a material witness for either party, or if either party
make aiiidavit that he has reason to believe, and does believe, that he
cannot have a fair and impartial trial before such justice by reason of the

 

interest of the justice, the action shall be transferred to some other justice
of the same or neighboring precinct ; and in case a jury be demanded, and
affidavit of either party is made that he cannot have a fair and impartial
trial on account of the bias or prejudice of the citizens of the precinct
against him, the action shall be transferred to some other justice of the
peace in the precinct, in the discretion of the justice. The justice to whom
an action may be transferred by the provisions of this seetion, shall have
and exercise the same jurisdiction over the action as if it had been ori 'nall y commenced before him. The justice ordering the transfer of 6
action to another justice shall immediately transmit to the latter, 'on payment of costs, all the papers in the action, together with a certified transcript
from his docket of the proceedings therein. ,

Upon the return day of the summons, if a jury be required, or if the
justice be actually engaged in other oiiicial business, he may adjourn the
trial withOut the consent of either party as follows: .

lst. When a party who is- not aresident of the county is in attendance,
the adjournment not to exceed twenty-four hours; when the defendant in
attendance is under arrest, the adjournment not to exceed three hours.

2d. In other cases not to exceed five days.

SEC. 585. The trial may be adjourned by consent, or upon application of
either party, without the consent of the other, for a period not exceeding
ten days (except as provided in the next section), as follows:

1st. The party asking the adjournment shall, if required by his adversary,
prove by his own oath, or otherwise, that he cannot, for want of material
_ testimony which he expects to procure, safely proceed to trial.

2d. The party asking ‘the adjournment shall also, if required by the
adverse party, consent that the testimony of any witness of such adverse
party who 18 in attendance, be then taken by deposition before the
justice, which shall accordingly be done ; and the testimony so taken may
be read on the trial with the same effect, and subject to the same objections,
as if the witness were produced.

SEC. 586. An adjournment may be had, either at the time of joining the
issue, or at any subsequent time to which the cause may stand adjourned,
on application of either party, for a period longer than ten days, but not to
exceed ninety days from the time of the return of the‘summons, upon.
proof, by the oath of the party or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the
justice, that such party cannot be ready for trial before the time to which
he desires an adjournment, for the want of materialevidence, describing
it; and that the delay has not been made necessary by any act or negligence on his part, since the action was commenced, and that he expects to
procure the evidence at the time stated by him. 7

SEC. 587. No adjournment shall be granted for a period longer than ten
days upon the application of either party, except upon condition that such
party file an undertaking, with sureties, to be approved by the justice, to
the effect that they will pay to the .opposite party the amount of any judgmentxwhich may be recovered against the party applying.

SEC. 588. H the plaintifff fail to appear at the return day of the summons,
the action shall be dismissed. If the defendant fail to appear at the return
‘ day of the summons, or if either party fail to attend at a day to which the

 

trial has been adjourned, or fail to make the necessary pleading or proof on
his part, the case may, nevertheless, proceed, at the request (if the adverse
party,and judgment shall be given in conformity with the pleadings and proofs.

SEC. 589. A trial by jury shall be demanded at the time of joining issue;
and shall be deemed waived if neither party then demand it. When
demanded, the trial of the case shall be adjourned until a time and place
fixed for the return of the jury. If neither party desire ‘an adjournment,
the time and place shall be determined by the justice, and shall be on the
same day, or within the next two days. The jury shall be summoned upon
an order of the justice from the citizens of the precinct or county, and not
from the bystanders.

SEC. 590. At the time appointed for the trial, the justice shall proceed to i
call from the jurors for the trial of the issue. The jury, by consent of the
parties, may consist of any number more than six nor less than three.

SEC. 591. If a suiiicient number of competent and indifferent jurors do
not attend, the justice shall direct others to be summoned from the vicinity,
and not from the bystanders, sufiicient to complete the jury.

SEC. 592. Either party may challenge the jurors. The challenge shall be
either peremptory or for cause. Each party shall be entitledto three
peremptory challenges. Either party may challenge for cause on any
grounds set forth in section 164.- Challenges for cause shall be tried by the
justice in a summary manner, who may examine the juror challenged and
witnesses.

SEC. 593. Judgment that, the action be dismissed without prejudice to a
new action may be entered with costs in the following cases:

1. When the plaintifff voluntarily dismisses the action before it is finally

submitted; ' A
_2. When he fails to appear at the time specified in the summons, or upon
adjournment, or within one hour thereafter ;

3. When it is objected at the trial, and appears by the evidence, that the
.action is brought in the wrong county; but if the objection be'taken and
overruled, it shall be cause only of reversal on appeal, and shall not otherwise invalidate the judgment; if not taken .at the trial, it shall be deemed
waived, and shall not be cause of reversal. x

SEC. 594. When the defendant fails to appear and answer, judgment shall
be given for the plaintifff as follows : '

‘ 1. When a copy of the account, note, bill, or other obligation upon
which the action is brought, was filed with the justice at the time the summons was issued, judgment shall be given Without further evidence for the
sum specified in the summons ; ”

2. In other cases the justice shall hear the evidence of the plaintifff, and
render judgment for such sum only as shall appear by the ev1dence to be
just; but in no case exceeding the amountspeciiied in the summons. *

SEC. 595. Upon issue joined, if a jury trial be not demanded, the justice

 

shall bear the evidence and decide all questions of fact and of law, and
render judgment accordingly.

SEC. 596. Upon a verdict, the justice shall immediately render judgment
accordingly. When the trial is by the justice, judgment shall be entered
immediately after the close of the trial, if the defendant has been arrested
and’ is still in custody; in other cases it shall be entered within four days
after the close of the trial. - ‘

SEC. 597. When the amount found due to either party exceeds the sum
for which the justice is authorized to enter judgment, such party may
remit the excess, and judgment may be rendered for the residue.

SEC. 598. If the defendant at any time before the trial offer in writing to
allow judgment to be taken against him for a specified sum, the plaintifff
may immediately have judgment therefore with the costs then accrued;
but if he do not accept such offer before the trial, and fail to recover in the
action a sum equal to the offer, he shall not recover costs, but costs shall
be adjudged against him, and if he recover, deducted from his recovery.
But the offer and failure to accept it shall not be 'given in evidence to affect
the recovery otherwise than as to costs, as above provided.

SEC. 599. When a judgment 'is rendered in a case Where the defendant
is. subject to arrest and imprisonment thereon, it shall be so stated in the
judgment, and entered in the docket.

SEC. 600. When the prevailing party is entitled to costs by this chapter,
the justice shall add their amount to the verdict; or in case of a failure of
the plaintifff to recover, or in case of a dismissal of the action, shall enter up
judgment in favor of the defendant for the amount of such costs.

SEC. 601. The justice, on demand of the party in whose favor judgment
is rendered, shall give him a transcript thereof, which may be filed and
docketed in the office of the district clerk of the county Where the judgment was rendered. The time of the receipt of the transcript by thedistrict clerk shall be noted by him thereon, and entered in the docket ; and
from that time executions may be issued by the district clerk on such- judgments to the sheriff of any other county of the Territory in the same manner as upon judgments recovered in the higher courts. All process upon
judgments recovered in justices’ courts to be executed within the same
county, shall be issued by the justice, or his successors in office.

SEC. 602. Executions for the enforcement of a judgment in a justice’s
court may be issued on the application of the party entitled thereto, at
any time within five years from the entry of judgment. '

SEC. 603. The execution, when issued 'by a justice, shall be directed to
the sheriff or to a constable of the county, and subscribed by the justice
by whom the judgment was rendered, or by'his successor in oliice, and
shall bear date the day of its delivery to the oiiicer to be executed.‘ It
shall intelliginy refer to the udgment, by stating the names of the parties,
and the name of the justice before whom, and of the county, and the precinct or village where, and the time when it was rendered; the amount of
judgment, if it be for money; and if less than the whole is due, the true
amount due thereon. It shall contain, in like cases, similar directions to

 

the sheriff or constable as are required by the provisions of this chapter in
an execution to the sheriff. '

SEC. 604. The sheriti' or constable to whom the execution is directed,
shall proceed to execute the same in the same manner as the sheriff is
required by the provisions of this chapter, to proceed upon executions
directed to him; and the constable, when the execution is directed to him,
shall be vested for that purpose with all the powers of sheriff.

SEC. 605. The provisions of this chapter which are referred to, and those
also in respect to which no special provision is made, shall be applicable to
justices’ courts and the proceedings therein.

SEC. 606. Every justice shall keep a book denominated “A Docket,” in
which he shall enter : A

1. The title of every action or proceeding.

‘2. The object of the action or proceeding; and if a sum of money be
claimed, the amount of the demand.

3. The date of the summons, and the time of its return; and if an order
to arrest the defendant be made, or a writ of attachment be issued, a statement of these facts. ' '

4. The time when the parties or either of them appear, or their nonap earance if default be made; a minute of the pleadmgs; if in writing,
re erring to them; if not in writing, a concise statement of the material
parts of the pleading. ‘ ' J

5. Every adjournment, stating on. whose application, whether on oath,
evidence, or consent, and to what time.

6. The demand for a trial by jury, when the same is made, and by whom
made; the order for the jury, and the time appointed for the trial and
return of the jury. .

7. The names of the jury who appear and are sworn; the names of all
witnesses sworn, and at whose request. ‘ 8. The verdict of the jury, and when received; if the jury disagree
and are discharged, the fact of such disagreement and discharge.

9. The judgment of the court, specifying the costs included and the
time when rendered, .

10. The issuing of execution, when issued, and to whom; the renewals
thereof, if any, and when made ; and a statement of any money paid to the
justice, and when, and by whom.

11. The receipt of a notice of appeal, if any be given. . °

SEC. 607. The several particulars of the last section specified shall be
entered under the title of the action to which they relate, and at the time
when they occur. Such entries in a justice’s docket, or a transcript thereof,
certified by the justice or his successor in office, shall be prima facie evi.
dence to prove the facts so stated therein. >

SEC. 608. A justice shall keep an alphabetical index to his docket, in
which shall be entered the names of the parties to each judgment, with a
reference to the page of entry. The names of the plaintifffs shall be entered
in the index in the alphabetical order of the first letter of the family names.

 

SEC. 609. It shall be the'duty of .every justice, upon the'expiration of his
term of oiiice, to deposit with his successor his official dockets, as well his own
as those of his predecessors which may be in his custody, to be kept as public
records. If the office of a justice become vacant by his death or‘ removal
- from the precinct or village, or otherwise, before his successor is elected and
qualified, the dockets in possession of such justice shall be deposited with
the district .clerk of the county, to be 'by him delivered to the successor in
office of the justice. 

SEC. 610. Any justice with whom the docket of his predecessor is deposited, may issue execution on a judgment there entered and unsatisfied, in
the same manner and with the same effect as the justice by whom the judg.
ment was entered might have done. - ' .

SEC. 611. The justice elected to fill a vacancy shall be deemed the successor of the justice whose office became vacant before the expiration of a
full term. VV’hen a full'term expires, the same or another person elected to
take oiiice in the same precinct or village, from that time shall be deemed.
the successor.

SEC. 612. When two or more justices are equally entitled under the last section to be deemed the successors in office of the justice, the judge. of
probate shall, by a certificate subscribed by him and filed in the office of the
district clerk, designate -which justice shall be the successor of a justice
going out of oiiice, or whose oiiice has become vacant.

SEC. 613. The summons, execution, and every other paper made or issued
by a justice, except a subpoena shall be filled without a blank left to be filled
by another, otherwise it shall be void.

SEC. 614. In case of the sickness, other disability, or necessary absence of
a justice on a return of a summons, or at the time appointed for a trial,
another justice of the same precinct or village may, at his request, attend
in his behalf, and shall thereupon become vested with the power, for the
time being, of the justice before whom the summons was returnable. In
that case the proper entry of the proceedings before the attending justice,
subscribed by him, shall be made in the docket of the justice before whom
the summons was returnable. If the case be adjourned, the justice before
whom the summons was returnable may resume jurisdiction.

SEC. 615. A justice may, at the request of a party, and on being satisfied
that it is expedient, specially depute any discreet person of suitable age,
and not interested in the action, to serve a summons or execution with or
without an order to arrest the defendant, or ‘with or without a writ of
attachment. Such deputation shall be in writing on the process.

SEC. 616. The person so deputed shall have the authority of a constablein relation to the service, execution, and return of such process, and. shall
be subject to the same obligations.

SEC. 617. A constable, notwithstanding the expiration of his term of
office, may proceed and complete the execution of all final process which he
has begun to execute, in the same nanner as if he still continued in office,
and his sureties shall be liable to the same extent.

SEC. 618. A justice may punish as for contempt persons guilty of the
following acts, and no others :

1. Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior towards the justice
while holding the court, tending to interrupt the due course of a trial or .
other judicial proceedings.

2. A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct, or violent disturbance in
the presence of the justice, or in the immediate vicinity of the court held by
him, tending to interrupt the due course of trial, or other 'udicial proceeding.

3. Disobedience or resistance to the execution of a lIawful order or process made or issued by him. ' \

. 4. Disobedience to a subpoena duly served, or refusing to be sworn or
answer as a witness. ‘

5. Rescuing any person orproperty in the custody of any officer by vir- .

tue of an order or process of the court held by him.

SEC. 619. When a contempt is committed in the immediate view and
presence of the justice, it may be punished summarily, for which an order
shall be made reciting the facts as occurring in such immediate view and
presence, adjudging that the person proceeded against is thereby guilty of ,
a contempt, and that he be punished as therein prescribed. When the.
contempt is not committed in the immediate view and presence of the
justice, a warrant of arrest may be issued. by such justice, on which the
person so guilty may be arrested and brought before the justice immediately,
when an opportunity to be heard in his defense or excuse shall be given.
The justice may thereupon discharge him, or may convict him of the
offense. A justice may punish for contempt by fine or imprisonment, or
both; such fine not to exceed in any case one hundred dollars, and such
imprisonment one day. 

SEC. 620. The conviction, specifying particularly the oii'ence and the,
judgment thereon, shall be entered by the justice in his docket. ' 

SEC. 621. Justices of the peace may issue subpoenas in any action or
proceeding in the courts held by them, and final process on any judgment
recovered therein, to any part of the county.

SEC. 622. Justices of the peace may issue commissions to take the
depositions of witnesses out of this Territory, and settle interrogatories to
be annexed thereto, and direct the manner in which the commissions shall
be returned. The provisions of this chapter in relation to commissioners, so
far as the same are consistent with the jurisdiction and powers of justices’
«courts, shall be applicable to justices’ courts and to actions.

SEC. 623. No action in regard to mining claims shall be maintained before
:any justice of the peace.

SEC. 624. No justice of the peace shall have power to grant a new trial
«or arrest a judgment.

SEC. 625. Any party dissatisfied with a judgment rendered in a justice’s
court, may appeal therefrom to the district court at any time within ten
days after .the rendition of the judgment.

SEC. 626. The party appealing may in his discretion file with his notice

 

of appeal an affidavit as to any special matters in the proceedings appealed
from; and the justice shall return specially as to all matters contained in
such affidavit, and file such affidavit with his return.

SEC. 627. An appeal shall be taken by filing a notice of appeal with the
justice and serving a copy on the adverse party.

SEC. 628. Upon receiving the notice of appeal and the undertaking, as
required in the next section, and on the payment of the costs of the action,
the justice shall transmit to the clerk of the district court a copy of his
docket in the case, the undertaking filed, and the notice of appeal.

SEC. 629. An appeal from a justice’s court shall not be effectual for any
purpose unless an undertaking be filed, with two or more sureties approved
by the justice, in a sum equal to twice the amount of the judgment and
costs, when the judgment is for the payment of money; or twice the value
of the property added to twice the amount of the costs, when the judgment
is for the recovery of specific personal property; and/shall be to the eii'ect
that the appellant will pay the amount of the judgment appealed from, or
the value of the property specified in such judgment, as the case may be:
Provided, the judgment shall be affirmed by the appellate court, together
with the costs on the appeal. If the judgment appealed from be other
than for the recovery of money or specific personal property, the amount
of the undertaking on appeal to stay proceedings, shall be fixed by the
justice, and shall be to the effect that the appellant will pay all costs on
appeal, and all damages which respondent may sustain thereby; provided,
the judgment appealed from be affirmed.

SEC. 630. If an execution be issued, on the filing of the undertaking,
staying all proceedings, the justice shall, by Order, direct the officer to stay
all proceedings on the same. Such officer shall, upon payment of his fees
for services rendered on the execution, thereupon relinquish all property
levied upon, and deliver the same to ' the judgment ,debtor, together with
all monies collected from sales or otherwise. If his fees be not paid, the
officer may retain so much of the prOperty, or proceeds thereof, as may be
necessary to pay the same.

SEC. 631. The party appealing shall furnish to the district court the papers
mentioned in section 629 of thisact, certified by the justice to be correct.

SEC. 632. Costs shall be allowed to the prevailing party in a justice’s
court, as follows: ‘

1st. To the plaintifff ten per cent. on the amount of the money or the
value of the prOperty recovered, if the action was litigated; five per cent.
if the action was not litigated;

2d. To the defendant ten per cent. on the amount, or the. value of the
property claimed by the plaintifff in his complaint. '

SEC. 633. In addition to the costs, as allowed in the last section, the-prevailing party shall be allowed his money disbursements in the action.

SEC. 634. Justices of the peace shall receive from the sheriff or constables of their county all monies collected on any process or order issued by
their courts respectively, and all monies paid to them in their oiiicial capaU

 

city, and shall pay the same over to the parties entitled or authorized to
receive‘them, Without delay. For a violation of this section they may be
removed from their ofIice, and shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.

SEC. 635. Justices of the peace may in all cases require a deposit of
money, or an undertaking, as security for costs of court, before issuing a
summons.

SEC. 636. The provisions of sections 521, 522, 525, 527, 528, 529, 533, and
534, shall be applicable to justices’ courts and actions therein.

Mscellaneous Provisions.

SEC. 637. The supreme court may make rules not inconsistent With the
laws of the Territory for its own government and the government of the
district courts, but such rules shall not be in force until thirty days after
their adoption and publication. 

SEC. 638. If an action be brought against a sherif for an act done by
virtue of his office, and he give written notice thereof to the sureties on any
bond of indemnity received by him, the judgment recovered therein shall
be conclusive evidence of his right to recover against such sureties ; and the
court or judge in vacation may, on motion, upon notice of five days, order
judgment to be entered up against them for the amount so recovered,
including costs.

SEC. 639. Whenever a summons or other process is served upon a party
who is unable to read, or who does not understand the English language,
it shall be the duty of the oiiicer making the service to explain to such
party the nature of the summons or other process.

SEC. 640. Words used in this act in the present tense shall be deemed
to include the future as well as the present; words used in the singular
number shall be deemed to include the plural, and the plural the singular;
writing shall be deemed to include printing or printed paper; oath to include
affirmation or declaration; signature or subscription, to include mark when
the person cannot write, his name being written near it, and witnessed by
a person who writes his own name ‘as a witness.


