
Clerk may re
Sec. 60.) No clerk of a court of record shall be bound to ?ulre
payment of
ees
In advance.
do any act or render any service connected with the duties of his office,
other than for the county or territory, until his fees for the same, as
prescribed by law, are paid or tendered.

Sec. 61.) The judges of the several district courts of this sioner, how ap
pointed.
territory may appoint one commissioner in each county where such
judge is authorized to hold a session of the district court, which commis
sioner shall reside at the county seat of the county for which he is ap
pointed. Such commissioner, in the absence of the district judge from
the county, shall have power only :
Powers of court
1. To grant temporary writs of injunction.
commissioner.
2. To grant writs of habeas corpus and make the same returnable
before the district judge, or in case of his absence from the district,
before any justice of the supreme court.
3. To make orders for a venire for grand and trial juries at the
request of the district attorney of the county.
4. To open and adjourn any term of the district court under the
direction of the judge, communicated by telegraph or otherwise.
5. To open and adjourn the district court of the county from time
to time the same as the judge of said court might do if present, in all
cases where the judge shall be absent from said court.
Suit, how com
menced.
Time of filing
complaint to be In
dorsed.
D o c k et must
show what.

What business
may be transacted
on holidays.


Sec. 62.) All civil suits in courts of record shall be com
menced by complaint filed in the office of the clerk of such court.

Sec. 63.) When a complaint is filed with the clerk, it shall
be his duty to indorse thereon the day and hour on which it was filed,
the number of the suit, and he shall enter the suit in a docket to be kept
by him for that purpose.

Sec. 64.) The docket shall be so kept as to show in a con
venient form the number of the suit, the names of the attorneys, the
names of the several parties to the suit, the object thereof, and in a brief
form the return on the summons or process, and all the subsequent pro
ceedings had in the case, specifying the time when they were had.

Sec. 65.) No court of justice shall be open, nor shall any
judicial business be transacted on any legal holiday, except for the fol
lowing purposes:
1. To give, upon their request, instructions to a jury when delib
erating on their verdict.
2. To receive a verdict or discharge a jury.
3. For the exercise of the powers of a magistrate in a criminal ac
tion, or in a proceeding of a criminal nature ; Provided, That the su
preme court shall always be open for the transaction of business : and
provided further, that injunctions, attachments, replevins and writs of
prohibition may be issued and served on any day.

Sec. 66.) The pleadings in all civil suits in courts of rec
ord shall be by complaint and answer.
Must be In writ

Sec. 67.) The pleadings shall be in writing, and signed
ing, signed and
filed.
by the party, or by his attorney, and filed with the clerk of the court.

Sec. 6S.) The pleadings shall consist of a concise state
ment of the facts constituting the plaintifff's cause of action or the de
fendant's ground of defense.

Sec. 69.) Any person -who has an interest in the subjectmatter, of the suit "which can be affected by the judgment, may, on leave
of the court or judge, intervene in such suit or proceeding at any time
before the trial.
1
Sec. 70. ) The pleadings of an intervenor shall conform to
the requirements of pleadings on the part of the plaintifff and defend
ant respectively.

Sec. 71.) The complaint may contain several different
causes of action, and the answer may contain several different defenses.

Sec. 72.) In pleading the charter or act of incorpora
tion of any corporation, public or private, it shall be sufficient to state
that the corporation was duly organized, and that it is a corporation.

Sec. 73.) In pleading a judgment or other determination
of a court or officer of special jurisdiction it shall not be necessary to
state the facts conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment or determina
tion may be stated to have been duly given or made. If such allega
tion be controverted, the party pleading shall be bound to establish in
the trial the facts conferring jurisdiction.

Sec. 74.) In pleading the performance of a condition prec
edent in a contract, it shall not be necessary to state the facts showing
such performance, but it may be stated generally that the party duly
performed all the conditions on bis part, and if such allegation be con
troverted, the party pleading shall establish on the trial the facts show
ing such performance.

Sec. 75.) In pleading a private statute, or a right derived
therefrom, it shall be sufficient to refer to such statute by its title and
the day of its passage, and the court shall thereupon take judicial notice
thereof.

Sec. 76.) In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be
necessary to state in the complaint any extrinsic facts for the purpose of
showing the application to the plaintifff of the defamatory matter out
of which the cause of action arose ; but it shall be sufficient to state gen
erally that the same was published or spoken concerning the plaintifff,
and if such allegation be controverted the plaintifff shall establish on the
trial that it was so published or spoken.
1286

Sec. 77.) In the actions mentioned in the last section, the
defendant may in his answer allege both the truth of the matter charged
as defamatory, and any mitigating circumstances to reduce the amount
of damages ; and, whether he prove the justification or not, he may give
S e veral causes
of action or de
fenses.
Pleading Incor
poration.
Plead tag accounts, bill of
particulars.
in evidence the mitigating circumstances.

Sec. 78.) It shall not be necessary for the party to set
forth in a pleading the items of an account therein alleged, but he shall
deliver to the adverse party within ten days after a demand thereof, in
■writing, a copy of the account, or be precluded from giving evidence

thereof. The court or a judge thereof may order a further account
when the one delivered is too general or is defective in any particular.
A m endment of

Sec. 79.) All pleadings or proceedings may upon leave of
pleadings.
the court be amended at any stage of the action within such time as the
court may prescribe, or they may be amended before trial without such
leave upon serving the adverse party with a copy of such amended
pleading or proceedings.

Sec. 80.) The complaint shall set forth clearly the names
of the parties, a concise statement of the cause of action, without any
distinction between suits at law and in equity, and shall also state the
nature of the relief which ne demands.

Sec. 81.) When the plaintifff is ignorant of the name of a
defendant, such defendant may be designated in any pleading or pro
ceeding by any name ; and when his true name is discovered, the plead
ing or proceeding may be amended accordingly.

Sec. 82.) Only such causes of action may be joined as are
capable of the same character of relief. Actions ex contractu shall
not be joined with actions ex delicto. In actions ex delicto there shall
not be joined actions to recover for injuries to the person, to property,
or to character ; but they shall be sued for separately.

Sec. 83.) When the defendant sets up a counterclaim
against the plaintifff, the plaintifff may plead thereto under the rules pre
scribed for the pleadings of defensive matter by the defendant.
1 
Sec. 84. ) The court shall in every stage of an action disre
gard any error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings which shall not
affect the substantial rights of the parties, and no judgment shall be re
versed or affected by reason of such error or defect.

Sec. 85.) !No person shall be sued out of the county in
which he resides, except in the following cases :
1. Where the defendant or all of several defendants reside out of
the territory, or their residence is unknown, the suit may be brought in
the county in which the plaintifff resides.
2. A married woman may be sued in the county in which her hus
band resides unless she be living separate and apart from him.
3. Transient persons may be sued in any county in which found.
4. Persons who may have contracted a debt or obligation in any
county of this territory, and thereafter remove to another county in
said territory, may be sued in either county.
5. When a person has contracted in writing to perform an obliga
tion in any particular county, the suit may be brought either in such
county or where the defendant resides.
6. Persons who may have contracted a debt or obligation in any
place outside of this territory, may be sued in any county of this ter
ritory in which found.
7. Where there are several defendants residing in different counties,
suit may be brought in the county in which any of the defendants re
side.
8. Suits against executors, administrators and guardians as such,
to establish a money demand against the estate represented by them,
be brought in the county in which such estate is being admin9. In cases of fraud and defalcation of public officers suit may be
Wught in the county in which the fraud was committed or the defal
cation occurred, or in which the defendant or any of several defendants
reside or may be found.
10. Where the foundation of the suit is a crime, offense or trespass
for which a suit in damages may lie, the suit may be brought in the
county in which the crime, offense or trespass was committed or in the
county in which the defendant or any of the several defendants reside
or may be found.
11. Suits for the recovery of personal property may be brought in
the county in which the property may be or in which the defendant or
any of several defendants may be found.
12. Suits for the recovery of real estate, for damages thereto, for
rents, profits, use and occupation thereof, for partition thereof, to quiet
title thereto, to remove a cloud or encumbrance on the title thereto, to
foreclose mortgages and other liens thereon, to prevent or stay waste
or injuries thereto, and all other suits concerning real estate, must be
brought in the county in which the real estate or a part thereof is sit
uated.
13. Suits for divorce must be brought in the county in which the
plaintifff shall have resided for six months next preceding the filing of
the complaint.
14. Suits to enjoin the execution of judgments or to stay proceed
ings in any suit must be brought in the county in which the judgment
was rendered on the suit is pending.
15. Suits against counties must be brought in the county sued un
less there are several counties defendants, in which case suit may be
brought in either county.
16. Suits against public officers must be brought in the county in
which the officer holds his office.
17. Suits on behalf of the territory may be brought in the county in
which the seat of government may be.
18. Suits against railroad companies, insurance companies, joint
stock companies and other corporations may be brought in any county in
which the cause of action, or a part thereof, arose, or in the county in
which the defendant has an agent or representative or owns any prop
erty or conducts any business.

Sec. 86.) In all cases where any part of a river, water
course, highway, road or street shall be the boundary line between two
counties, the several courts of each of said counties shall have concur
rent jurisdiction in all cases over such parts of said river, water-course
highway, road or street as shall be the boundary of such county, in the
same manner as if such parts of said river, water-course, highway, road
or street were within the body of such county.

Sec. 87.) All suits brought by or against any of the coun
municipal corpo
rations.
ties or incorporated cities, towns or villages, shall be by or against it in
its corporate name.
F. x ecutors. ad

Sec. 88.) Suits for the recovery of personal property,
ministrators and
guardians may in debts or damages, and suits for title or for the possession of lands, or for
stitute suits.
any right attached, or growing out. of the same, or for any injury or
damage done thereto, may be instituted by executors, administrators or
guardians appointed in this territory, in like manner as they could have
been by their testator or intestate ; and judgment in such case shall be
as conclusive as if rendered in favor of or against such testator or in
testate ; but such judgment may be set aside by any person interested
for fraud or collusion on the part of such executor, administrator or
guardian.

Sec. 89.) In every suit against the estate of a decedent in
volving the title to real estate, the executor or administrator, if any, and
the heirs, shall be made parties defendant.

Sec. 90.) Every action shall be prosecuted in the name of
the real party in interest : Provided, An executor or administrator, or
a trustee of an express trust or a person expressly authorized by statute,
may sue without joining with him the person for whose benefit the
action is brought.
1
Sec. 91.) A person with whom or in whose name a con
tract for the benefit of another is made, and the assignee of any chose in
action, is a trustee of an express trust, within the meaning of this sec
tion.

Sec. 92.) In the case of an assignment of a thing in ac
tion, the action by the assignee shall be without prejudice to any set-off
or other defense existing at the time of, or before notice of the assign
ment : but this section shall not apply to a negotiable promissory note
or bill of exchange, transferred in good faith and upon good considera
tion before due.

Sec. 93.) When a married woman is a party her husband
shall be joined with her except that :
1. Where the action concerns her separate property she may sue
or be sued alone.
2. When the action is between herself and her husband, she may
sue or be sued alone.

Sec. 94.) If a husband and wife be sued together, the wife
may defend for her own right.

Sec. 95.) The husband and wife shall be jointly sued for
all debts contracted by the wife for necessaries furnished herself or
'rhfldren.

Sec. 96.) A father, or in case of his death or desertion of
his family, the mother, may maintain an action for the injury of a
child, and a guardian for the injury of his ward.

Sec. 97.) The acceptor of a bill of exchange or any other
principal obligor in any contract may be sued either alone or jointly

Executor or adm 1 n lstrator and
heir to be made
parties to action
for land, when.
Action most be
brought in the
name of re al
party In Interest.

Who Is trustee
of express trust.

A s 8 liniment of
chose In action
does not prejudice
set-off.

Married women
may he sued
alone, when.

Wife may de
fend.
II u s b a nd and
wife must be sund
jointly for neces
saries.
Action for Inju
ries to minors.

Suits on bills of
exchange or other
contracts.

When principal
obligor need not
be made party.

Additional parties.

Party may ap
pear In person or
by attorney.
Guardian ad li
tem for minor, ap
pointed, wben.

Guardian ad li
tem not liable for
costs.

Guardian ad li
tem for minor de
fendant.
with any other party who may be liable thereon ; but no judgment shall
be rendered against such other party not primarily liable on such bill
or other contract unless judgment shall have been previously or shall
be at the same time rendered against such acceptor or other principal
obligor, except where the plaintifff may discontinue his suit against
such principal obligor as hereinafter provided.

Sec. 98.) The assignor, indorser, guarantor and surety upon
any contract, and the drawer of any bill, which has been accepted, may
be sued without the necessity of previously or at the same time suing
the maker, acceptor or other principal obligor, when he resides beyond
the limits of the territory, or in such part of the same that he can not
be reached by the ordinary process of law, or when his residence is
unknown and can not be ascertained by the use of reasonable diligence,
or when he is dead, or actually or notoriously insolvent.

Sec. 99.) Additional parties may be brought in by proper
process either by plaintifff or defendant upon such terms as the court
may prescribe.

Sec. 100.) Any party to a suit may appear and prosecute
or defend his rights therein, either in person or by an attorney of the
court.

Sec. 101.) If any minor shall desire to bring a civil action
in any court of this territory and such minor has no guardian within
this territory, the court in which such action is proposed to be brought
may, upon the petition of any relative or friend of such minor, appoint
a guardian ad litem for such minor for the purpose of bringing such
action, and whenever it shall appear to any court in any proceeding or
matter being had before such court, that the interests of minors are
involved in such proceeding or matter, and that said minors have not
appeared therein by a guardian, it shall be the duty of such court to
forthwith appoint in writing some suitable person to act as special
guardian for such minor or minors, in such proceeding or matter, for
the purpose of protecting the interest of such minor or minors in such
proceeding or matter.

Sec. 102.) No person shall be appointed as special guar
dian except upon his written consent, and he shall not be liable person
ally for costs, unless by special order of the court for some misconduct
therein.

Sec. 103.) In all cases where a minor may be a defendant
to a suit and it shall be shown to the court that such minor has no
guardian within the territory, it shall be the duty of the court to ap
point a guardian ad litem for such minor, for the purpose of defending
such suit, and to allow him a reasonable compensation for his services
to be taxed as part of the costs of the suit.

Sec. 104.) Of the parties to the action, those who are tl£>.Inder of par
united in interest shall be joined as plaintifffs or defendants, but if the
Party refusing
Join as plaintifff
consent of any one who should have been joined as plaintifff can not be to
may be made deobtained, he may be made a defendant, the reason therefore being stated fendant
in the complaint ; and where the question is one of a common or general nne person may
interest of many persons, or wThen the parties are numerous and it is when. ' 0 r 61as3,
impracticable to bring them all before the court, one or more may sue
or defend for the benefit of all.

Sec. 105.) When the complaint shall be filed with the
clerk, and the other regulations hereinafter prescribed shall be com
plied with, the clerk shall forthwith indorse on the complaint the day
and month and year that it is filed, and at any time within one year
thereafter the plaintifff may have a summons issued ; and if the action
be brought against two or more defendants, who reside in different
counties, the plaintifff may have a summons issued for each of said
counties at the same time.

Sec. 106.) A copy of the plaintifff's complaint shall ac
company the stimmons, and should there be more than one defendant
to be served a copy of the complaint shall be made out for each of them.
The copies of the complaint attached to the copies of the summons shall
not be certified by the clerk unless such certification is demanded by the
plaintifff or his attorney. Such copies may be prepared by the plaintifff
or his attorney, and when so prepared no charge shall be made by the
clerk therefore. Any clerk of the district court who shall make any
charge for copies of anv complaint not actually made and certified by
him shall not receive any fees in the case in which such charge is
made.

Sec. 107.) The summons shall state the parties to the
action, the court in which it is brought, the county in which the com
plaint, is filed, and require the defendant to appear and answer the
complaint within the time mentioned in the next section after the
service of summons, exclusive of the day of service ; or that judgment
by default will be taken against him.
28

Sum mon9 may
be issued within
one y ear after
complaint filed.

Copy of com
plaint must be at
tached to sum
mons.
Service In suits
against cities and
towns.
Service on cor
porations.

Sec. 108.) The time in which summons shall require the
defendant to answer the complaint shall be as follows :
1. If the defendant is served within the county in which the action
is brought, twenty days.
2. In all other cases, thirty days.

Sec. 109.) In an action affecting the title to real property
the plaintifff at the time of filing the complaint, or at any time there
after, and the defendant at the time of filing his answer when affirmative
relief is claimed in such answer, or at any time thereafter, may file in
the office of the recorder of the county in which the property is situated,
a notice of the pendency of the action or defense, containing the names
of the parties, the object of the action, or the matter constituting de
fendant's claim for affirmative relief, the relief demanded by the de
fendant, and a description of the property affected thereby. The
recorder shall file said notice and record the same in a book to be
provided for that purpose, and index the same in the names of the
parties to the action, and shall receive for such filing, recording and
indexing the sum of one dollar ($1.00). From the time of filing such
notice a purchaser or encumbrancer of the property affected thereby
shall be held to have constructive notice of the pendency of the action,
and claims therein made.

Sec. 110.) Where it appears from the complaint that the
sheriff is a party to the suit or is interested therein, the summons shall
be served by any constable of his county.

Sec. 111.) It shall be the duty of any sheriff or constable
to whom any summons shall be delivered to indorse thereon the day
and hour on which he received it and to execute and return the same
without delay. The summons shall be served by delivering a copy
thereof, attached to a copy of the complaint, to each of the defendants,
personally, or by leaving it at the usual place of residence of the defend
ant with a member of his family over the age of sixteen years.

Sec. 112.) In suits against any county the summons shall
be served on the chairman of the board of supervisors of such county,
and in his absence on any member of said board.

Sec. 113.) In suits against any incorporated city, town or
village, the summons may be served on the mayor, clerk, secretary or
treasurer thereof.

Sec. 114.) In suits against any incorporated company or
joint-stock association the summons may be served on the president,
secretary or treasurer or any director of such company or association,
or upon the local agent representing such company or association, in
the county in which suit is brought, or by leaving a copy of the same
at the principal office of the company during office hours. Service
may be had upon any railroad, telegraph or express company by serving
the summons on any agent of such company, who resides in or may be
found in the county where the suit is brought.

Sec. 115.) Whenever any corporation incorporated under
the laws of this territory does not have an officer in this territory upon
whom legal service of process can be made, of which the return thereon
shall be prima facie evidence, an action or proceeding against such
corporation may be commenced in any county where the cause of action
or proceeding may arise or said corporation may have property; and
service may. be made upon such corporation by depositing a copy of
the summons, writ or other process in the office of the secretary of the
territory, which shall be taken, deemed and treated as personal service
on such corporation: Provided, That whenever any sums, writ or
process against or affecting any such corporation is served on the secre
tary of the territory, the same shall be by duplicate copies, one of
which shall be filed in the office of the secretary of the territory, and
the other by him immediately mailed, postage prepaid, to the office of
the company, or to the president, secretary or any director or officer of
such corporation as may appear or be ascertained by said secretary from
the articles of incorporation on file in his office.
1325. (See. 116.) In suits against partners the summons may be
served upon one of the firm, and such service shall be sufficient to
authorize a judgment against the firm and against the partner actually
served.

Sec. 117.) The return of the officer executing the sum
mons shall be indorsed on or attached to the same ; it shall state when
the summons was served and the manner of service, and shall be signed
by him officially.

Sec. 118.) The summons may be served by any disinter
ested person competent to make oath of the fact.

Sec. 119.) The return of service in such cases shall be
indorsed or attached to the original summons. It shall state when the
same was served and the manner of its service and be signed and sworn
to by the party making such service.

Sec. 120.) When any party to the suit, his agent or attor
ney, shall make affidavit at the time of instituting the suit or at any
time during its progress that the defendant is a non-resident of the
territory, or that he is absent from the territory, or that he is a transient
person, or that his residence is unknown to the affiant, or is a corporation
incorporated under the laws of any other state or territory, or foreign
country and doing business in this territory or having property therein
but having do legally appointed and constituted agent in this territory,
or that such defendant conceals himself to avoid the service of summons,
a summons shall he issued as in other cases, and service shall be made
by making publication thereof in some newspaper published in" his
county, if there be any newspaper published therein, but if not, then
in any newspaper published in the nearest county to the county where
the suit is pending. Such summons shall be published at least once in
each week for four successive weeks, and the service shall be complete
thirty days after the first publication.

Sec. 121.) When the residence of the defendant in the cases
mentioned in the preceding section is known to the affiant the same shall
be stated in the affidavit, and if svich residence is not known that fact
shall be stated. When the residence of defendant is known, the plain
tiff, his agent or attorney, shall forthwith deposit a copy of the sum
mons and complaint in the postoffice, postage prepaid, directed to the
defendant at his place of residence, and the affidavit of the person so
mailing said copies shall be prima facie evidence thereof.

Sec. 122.) When it is necessary to commence suit for the
foreclosure of a mortgage or for the complete determination of the title
of real property against the unknown heirs of any deceased person, which
heirs reside out of the territory, they must be sued as the unknown heirs
of the deceased, and service of the summons may be made on them in
the manner provided in the two preceding sections.

Sec. 123.)
Personal service of a copy of the summons
and complaint out of the territory shall be equivalent to publication and
deposit in the postoffice.

Sec. 124.) The service of the summons shall be deemed
complete thirty days after such service outside the territory.

Sec. 125.) When the residence of a defendant not a resi
dent of the territory is known, the plaintifff, his agent or attorney may
deposit a copy of the summons and complaint in the postoffice, register
ing it, directed to the defendant at his place of residence ; and on return
through the postoffice of the registry receipt thereof, shall attach such
registry receipt to an affidavit showing that the envelope was addressed
to the defendant at his place of residence, that it was registered and
mailed, that it contained a copy of the summons and complaint, that
the attached registry receipt is the genuine receipt thereof, and the date
of the return thereof to the sender, whereupon such affidavit shall be
prima facie evidence of personal service of said copy of the summons
and complaint, as of the date of the return of the registry receipt to the
sender, and shall be of like force and effect as though personally served
outside of the territory.

Sec. 126.) Where personal service of a copy of the sum
mons and complaint is made out of the territory, or service by publica
tion is made as provided in the preceding sections, the defendant is
required to appear and answer within twenty days after the completion
thereof, in the same manner and under the same penalties as if he had
been personally served with a summons within the county in which the
suit is pending.

Sec. 127.) When the summons is served by publication,
the return of the officer serving the same shall be indorsed or attached to
said summons and shall show when it was served and the manner
thereof, specifying the dates of such publication, and shall be accom
panied by a printed copy of such publication and shall be signed by him
officially.

Sec. 128.) Service by publication may also be made by the
plaintifff or by his attorney in like manner as though made by an officer,
in which event the return shall be made by affidavit in which must be
stated and shown the matters and things necessary to be shown by an
officer in his return in a like case.

Sec. 129.) Any mistake or informality in a return or affi
davit of service may be corrected by the officer at any time under the
direction of the court.

Sec. 130.) The defendant may accept service of any pro
cess or waive the issuance of service thereof, in writing, signed by him
or by his duly authorized agent or attorney, and filed among the papers
of the cause ; and such waiver or acceptance shall have the same force
and effect as if the summons had been issued and served as provided by
law.

Sec. 131.) The defendant may, in person or by attorney,
or by his duly authorized agent, enter an appearance in open court, and
such appearance shall be noted by the clerk upon the docket and entered
in the minutes, and shall have the same force and effect as if summons
had been duly issued and served as provided by law.

Sec. 132.) The filing of an answer shall constitute an ap
pearance of the defendant so as to dispense with the necessity for the
issuance or service of summons upon him.

Sec. 133.) Where any defendant shall appear specially in
any cause in any court in this territory for the sole and only purpose of
objecting to the jurisdiction of the court whether said objection be
sustained or denied, such appearance shall not be held to be a general
appearance or to give the court jurisdiction.

Sec. 134.) An action shall not abate by the death or other
disability of a party, or by the transfer of any interest therein, if the
cause of action survive or continue. In case of the death or disability
of a party, the court, on motion, may allow the action to be continued
by or against his representative or successor in interest. In case of any
other transfer of interest, the action may be continued in the name of
the original party, or the court may allow the person to whom the
transfer is made to be substituted in the action.

Sec. 135.) If such death or other disability of a party or
transfer of interest occur in vacation, any party to the suit desiring to
make new parties occasioned thereby, may make and file with the clerk
an affidavit of such death, disability or transfer and suggest the names
and residences of the persons he desires to make new parties, and there
upon a summons may be issued directed to such persons, which shall be
served and returned as in other cases. If the persons served fail to
appear and answer within the time required by the summons the court
shall enter such judgment or order in the cause as may be proper.

Sec. 136.) The court may determine any controversy be
tween parties before it, when it can be done without prejudice to the
rights of the others or by saving their rights; but when a complete
determination of the controversy can not be had without the presence
of other parties, the court shall order them to be brought in.

Sec. 137.) The plaintifff may enter a discontinuance on the
docket in vacation, where no cross bill or counterclaim has been filed.
1347. (See. 138.) When in any suit either party shall die between
verdict and judgment the judgment shall be entered as if both parties
were living.

Sec. 139.) When there are several defendants in a suit,
and some of them are served with summons and others are not so served,
the plaintifff may proceed against those that are served and continue the
suit and issue new summons against those not served, or he may at his
option continue the suit and issue new summons against those not
served.

Sec. 140.) An action for the recovery of damages for
injuries to the person caused by the wrongful act, default or neglect of
another shall not abate by reason of the death of the defendant, but if
the defendant die pending the suit, his executor or administrator may be
substituted as defendant and the case proceed to judgment as if the
defendant had remained alive. The judgment, if in favor of the plain
tiff, ahall be paid in due course of administration. If any such action
be brought against a receiver, assignee or trustee, acting under an order
of deor judgment of any court, and such receiver, assignee or trustee shall f eSuccessor
n dant receiver
or
assignee
die, resign or be removed from office, the successor or successors of such be substituted.may
receiver, assignee or trustee may be substituted as defendant in suchaction and the cause shall thereupon proceed to judgment as if the
original receiver, assignee or trustee had continued in office.

Sec. 141.) The defendant in his answer may plead as Answer,
many defenses as he may have ; but such pleas must be separately stated ^tentes 'musf'be
in one answer, filed at the same time and in the following order :
stated.
1. Denying the jurisdiction of the court.
2. In abatement of the suit.
3. To strike from the complaint irrelevant, redundant or uncertain
matter.
4. To make the complaint definite and certain.
5. Demurrer.
6. In bar of the right to sue.
7. Denying the facts constituting the cause of action.
8. Set-off and counterclaim.

Sec. 142.) The defendant may demur to the complaint Demurrer to
complaint,
when it appears upon the face thereof, either :
mounds of.
1. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the defendant,
or the subject of the action.
2. That the plaintifff has not legal capacity to sue.
3. That there is another action pending between the same parties
for the same cause.
4. That there is a defect of parties, plaintifff or defendant.
5. That several causes of action are improperly united.
6. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action.
7. That the cause of action is barred by limitation.

Sec. 143.) The demurrer shall distinctly specify the Grounds of degrounds of objection to the complaint, and unless it do so, it may be med^er ° e spe°
O b 3 ection may
be taken by an
swer, when.

Waiver of objec
tions.

Demurrer to an
swer.

Striking out
frivolous answers.

Striking out and
amending redund
ant or Indefinite
Dleadlngs.

P I a i n tiff may
reply, when.

Answer must be
verified, when.
disregarded. It may be taken to the whole complaint or to any of the
causes of action stated therein.

Sec. 144.) When any of the matters enumerated in sub
divisions one, three and four of section 142 do not appear upon the
face of the complaint, the objection may be taken by answer setting
forth the objection in abatement or in bar of the action. If no such
objection is taken, either by demurrer or answer, the defendant shall
be deemed to have waived the same, excepting only the objection to the
jurisdiction of the court and the objection that the complaint does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.

Sec. 145.) The plaintifff may demur to the answer or to
any defense or counterclaim therein contained, upon the ground that
the same does not state facts sufficient to constitute a defense or counter
claim, and to a counterclaim on the ground that the matters stated are
not a proper subject of counterclaim in the action.

Sec. 146.) Sham, irrelevant or frivolous answers and
frivolous demurrers may be stricken out, or judgment rendered notwith
standing the same, on motion as for want of any answer.

Sec. 147.) If irrelevant or redundant matter is inserted in
a pleading, it may be stricken out on motion, and when a pleading is
double, and does not conform to the statute, or when the allegations of a
pleading are so indefinite or uncertain that the precise nature of the
charge or defense is not apparent, the court may strike it out on motion
or require it to be amended.

Sec. 148.) It shall not be necessary for the plaintifff to
deny any special matter of defense pleaded by the defendant, but the
same shall be regarded as denied unless expressly admitted ; but when
the answer contains new matter the plaintifff may reply thereto, speci
fically denying each allegation controverted by him; and he may also
allege, in ordinary and concise language, any new matter not incon
sistent with the complaint constituting an answer to such new matter in
the answer.

Sec. 149.) Any answer setting up any of the following
matters, unless the truth of the pleadings appear of record, shall be
verified by affidavit:
1. That the suit is not commenced in the proper county.
2. That the plaintifff has not legal capacity to sue.
3. That the plaintifff is not entitled to recover in the capacity in
which he sues.
4. That there is another suit pending in this territory between the
same parties for the same cause of action.
5. That there is a defect of parties, plaintifff or defendant.
6. A denial of partnership as alleged in the complaint, whether the
same be on the part of the plaintifff or defendant.
7. That the plaintifff or the defendant alleged in the complaint to
be duly incorporated, is duly incorporated as alleged.
8. A denial of the execution by himself or by his authority of any
instrument in writing upon which any pleading is founded, in whole or
in part, and charged to have been executed by him or by his authority,
and not alleged to be lost or destroyed. Where such instrument in
writing is charged to have been executed by a person then deceased, the
affidavit will be sufficient if it state that the affiant has reason to believe,
and does believe, that such instrument was not executed by the decedent
or by his authority.
9. A plea denying the genuineness of the indorsement or assignment
of any written instrument.
10. That a written instrument upon which a pleading is founded,
is without consideration, or that the consideration of the same has failed
in whole or in part.
11. That an account which is- the foundation of the plaintifff's
action, and supported by an affidavit, is not just, and in such case the
answer shall set forth the items and particulars which are unjust.

Sec. 150.) In all cases where equitable relief is prayed for
if the party asking for such relief, or his agent or attorney, shall make
oath that the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint are true in
substance and in fact, unless the oath be waived in the complaint, the
answer of the opposite party shall be under oath and each one of the
material allegations of the complaint which is not denied under oath
shall be taken as confessed.

Sec. 151.) Whenever any suit shall be brought for the
recovery of any debt due by judgment, bond, bill or otherwise, the
defendant shall be permitted to plead therein any counterclaim which
he may have against the plaintifff, subject to such limitation as may be
prescribed by law.

Sec. 152.) The plea setting up such counterclaim shall
state distinctly the nature and the several items thereof and shall con
form to the ordinary rules of pleading.

Sec. 153.) On the trial of such issue, if the defendant shall
establish a demand against the plaintifff exceeding that established
against him by the plaintifff, the court shall render judgment for the
defendant for such excess.

Sec. 154.) Whenever a counterclaim is pleaded under the
provisions of this title, the party in whose favor final judgment is
rendered shall also recover his costs, unless it should be made to appear

Answer in equi
table action must
be verified, when.

Counter-claim.

R e q u lsites of
plea of counter
claim.
D e fendant may
have affirmative
judgment on coun
ter-claim.

Cost when counterclaim Is
pleaded.

What may not
be pleaded as
counterclaim.

Cause of action
arising out of
plaintifff's cause of
action may be
pleaded on coun
ter-claim.
Payment or
counter- claim
must be distinctly
pleaded.
Original answer
to stand as answer
to amended com
plaint.

Pleas to be heard
In order of plead
ing.
What pleas to
be determined dur
ing the term at
which they are
filed.
Copy of plead
ing to be served
on opposing attor
ney.

Copies of plead
ings, how served.
on the trial that the counterclaim of the defendant was acquired after
the commencement of the suit, in which case, if the plaintifff establishes
a cause of action existing at the commencement of the suit, he shall
recover his costs.

Sec. 155.) If the plaintifff's cause of action be a claim for
unliquidated or uncertain damages founded on a tort or breach of
covenant, the defendant shall not be permitted to set off any debt due
him by the plaintifff ; and if the suit be founded on a certain demand,
the defendant shall not be permitted to set off unliquidated or uncertain
damages founded on a tort or breach of covenant on the part of the
plaintifff.

Sec. 156.) Nothing in the preceding section shall be so
construed as to prohibit the defendant from pleading in set-off any
counterclaim founded on a cause of action arising out of, or incident
to, or connected with the plaintifff's cause of action.

Sec. 157.) If the defendant desire to prove any payment,
counterclaim or set-off, the same shall be plainly and particularly de
scribed in the answer, so as to give the plaintifff full notice thereof.

Sec. 158.) Where the defendant has answered, and the
plaintifff shall afterward amend his pleading, it shall not be necessary
for the defendant to answer a second time, but such original answer
shall be presumed to extend to all matters set up by the plaintifff in such
amended pleading, so far as the same may be applicable.

Sec. 159.) Pleas shall be heard and determined in due
order of pleading under the direction of the court.

Sec. 160.) Pleas to the jurisdiction, pleas in abatement
and other dilatory pleas and demurrers not involving the merits of
the case shall be determined during the term at which they are filed,
if the business of the court will permit.

Sec. 161.) A copy of the answer or other pleading of the
defendant shall be served upon the attorney for the plaintifff within the
time the same is required to be filed; and within the like time a copy
of the demurrer to any defense or counterclaim or the answer to any
counterclaim shall be served upon the attorney for the defendant.

Sec. 162.) The pleadings mentioned in the preceding sec
tion may be served by delivering a copy to the party on whom the service
is to be made, or it may be made as follows :
1. If upon an attorney it may be made during his absence from his
office by leaving the papers with his clerk therein or with the person
having charge thereof; or,
2. When there is no person in the office, by leaving it, between the
hours of eight o'clock a. m. and six o'clock p. m., in a conspicuous place
in the office ; or,
3. If the office is not open so as to admit of such service, hy leaving
it at the attorney's residence with some person of suitable age and
discretion.

Sec. 163.) Said pleadings may be served by mail when the
person making the service and the person on whom it is to be served
reside at different places, between which there is regular communication
by mail. In case of service by mail, the paper shall be deposited in
the postoffice addressed to the person on whom it is to be served, at his
place of residence, and the postage paid, and the service shall be deemed
complete when the paper to be served is so deposited in the postoffice.
The court may, upon the written consent of by° coSflntf venue

the parties thereto or their attorneys, filed with the papers of the cause
by an order entered on the minutes, transfer the same for trial to the
court of any other county having jurisdiction of the subject-matter of
such suit.
1374. (See. 165.) If either party to a civil action file an affidavit Krc;^e f°0frvenue*
in the case, alleging either of the following grounds therefore, the venue
thereof may be or shall be changed as hereinafter provided :
1. That there exists in the county where the suit is pending so
great a prejudice against him that he can not obtain a fair and impartial
trial.
2. That the judge of said court has been engaged as counsel in the
ca<e prior to his appointment as judge, or is otherwise interested in the
3. That said judge is of kin or related to either party.
4. That the affiant has cause to believe and does believe that on
account of the bias or prejudice or interest of said judge he can not
obtain a fair and impartial trial.
5. That the said judge is a material witness in the case.
6. For other good and sufficient cause, to be determined by the
court.
1
Sec. 166.) The first and sixth grounds above specified shall a fffl* °t\
be, as to their truth and sufficiency, discretionary with the court ; but when.
courts.

the decision thereon, in case of an appeal by the one alleging such ground
may be assigned as error, in which event the appellate court shall ex
amine into, consider and review such decision the same as any other
ruling or decision in the case ; and, if the appellate court shall conclude
the decision to be erroneous, it shall reverse the case for such error.
The second, third, fourth and fifth grounds above specified, whenever
whin ° d a 4 0 r y ' *^ey> or either of them, are alleged, by affidavit filed, as a ground for
a change of venue, the court shall in every such case at once grant the
change.
tpAPbe " pushed
1
Sec. 167.) No judge or court shall punish for contempt,
tor contempt.
either by fine or imprisonment, any one making, filing or presenting
such affidavit or any motion founded thereon.

Sec. 168.) When a change of venue is directed, the court or
judge shall send the cause to the most convenient county in the adjoining
district, unless the parties in said action shall agree to some other county,
in which event the cause shall be sent to the county so agreed upon by
the parties. And the clerk of the court in which the action is pending
peTi'ansfer of pa" shall forthwith transmit the papers and transcript of the proceedings
thansed.

in the case to the clerk of the court to which the venue is changed, the
party applying for the change first paying the costs thereof, which pay
ment must be made within five days after the order directing the change
or the application of such change and the order therefore shall be deemed
abandoned. And the clerk of the proper court shall receive the papers
and docket the cause in its order, and the action shall stand for trial at
the first regular term thereafter, and shall be tried or otherwise disposed
of as if it had originated in that court : Provided, however, That the
change of venue shall be deemed abandoned unless the applicant shall
toB°be K?TenCO!on a^so' witnm sa^ nve days, give an undertaking to the opposite party.
change of venue. Wxth sureties to be approved by the clerk of the court, to the effect that
he will pay all costs that may be adjudged against him in such case.
And if the abandonment is by either party, the cause shall stand for trial
in the court so making the order and shall proceed to trial as if the
order for such change had not been made. Provided, further, That if
any judge of the supreme court shall consent to come to the county
where said suit is pending and try said cause on or before the next term
of court after the date of the order directing the cause to be tried by
judei*
fmm
other
him.no
be °granted
county may sit, , ' change
b of venue
. . shall
. for any
* of the causes mentioned
when,
in the last four subdivisions of section 165, but the case shall there
after be tried and determined by said supreme judge, who shall have
full authority and jurisdiction to hear and determine the same, as fully,
to all intents and purposes, as if the case had been originally brought
before him.

Sec. 169.) No change of venue shall be granted in vaca&
tion unless the opposite party has had ten days' previous notice in writ
ing of the time and place of the hearing of the application.

Sec. 170.) In all civil actions in any of the district courts change of venue

n su'ts against
of this territory brought and pending in a county where said county is county.
a party, the opposite party shall be entitled to a change of venue to some
other county in the territory without making any affidavit therefore, but
the party desiring such change shall be entitled thereto by applying to
the court or judge on that ground alone : Provided, however, That in
any such case the party applying shall pay the costs of the change and
give an undertaking to the opposite party as heretofore provided in other

Sec.
171.)' Nothing
Genaserai
provtsx
° herein shall authorize
... the granting of 'ons
10 coanpe
more than one change of venue or one change of judge in any case, but of venueeach party shall be heard to urge his objections to any county or judge
in the first instance, and the change of venue shall be to the most con
venient county to which the objections of parties do not apply or are
'fast applicable and the same rules shall govern in the selection of
another judge : Provided, however, That if the parties agree upon a
countv or judge, as the case may be, then such county or judge shall be
elected.

Sec. 172.) No application for a change of venue shall be
,°f a™.£
tmertained in term time unless at least five days' notice thereof has been tlm6'
dren to the opposite party, and no change of venue shall be granted in
any civil action until the answer has been filed.
1382. 
Sec.
173.)
Judge

^ The *judge
° of anv
* district court of_ the territorv
* change
on hismay
own
may on his own motion change the venue of any case, civil or criminal, motion, when,
landing before him, or select another judge to try the same when, for
My reason, he is disqualified from trying the same.

Sec. 174.) No application for continuance shall be heard
Wore the defendant files his defense, nor shall any continuance be
granted except for sufficient cause, supported by affidavit, or by con
sent of the parties, or by operation of law.

Sec. 175.) On any application for continuance, if the
ground for such application be the want of testimony, the party applvA pplicatlonto for
'•ontlnuance
be
heard, when.

Affidavit on apn 1 1 c a 1 1 o n on
eround of want of
testimony.

conUnianc^mlTst
deposuions of w?£
party! °

unfinished
ness
to stand bustconmentdof' t° rm.urn
ing therefore shall make affidavit that such testimony is material, showing
the materiality thereof, and that he has used due diligence to procure
such testimony, stating such diligence and the cause of failure, if known,
that such testimony can not be obtained from any other source ; and if it
be for the absence of a witness, he shall state the name and residence of
the witness, and what he expects to prove by him ; and he shall also state
that the continuance is not sought for delay only, but that justice may be
done. But if the adverse party will admit that such evidence would be
given and that it will be considered as actually given on the trial, or
offered and overruled as improper, the trial shall not be continued.
Such evidence may be controverted the same as if the witness were
personally present.

Sec. 176.) The party obtaining a continuance of a trial
shall also, if required by the adverse party, consent that the testimony
of any witness or such adverse party who is in attendance be taken by
deposition before a judge or clerk of the court, or stenographer or notary
public to be named by the court, which shall accordingly be done ; and
the testimony so taken may be read on the trial by either party with the
same effect and subject to the same objections as if the witnesses were
produced.
1386. 
Sec.

' / If from any
J cause the court shall not be held at
tue ^me prescribed by law, or if the business before the court be not
determined before the adjournment therof, such business, of whatsoever
nature, remaining undetermined shall stand continued until the next
succeeding term of court, without an order and without cost.
cause may pro
Sec. 178.) Where there are several defendants, some of
s we r i dk defend- whom have answered and others have made default, judgment may be
entered against those who have not answered, and the cause may pro
ceed against the others.
Order of trial of

Sec. 179.) Causes shall be called and tried in their order
causes.
on the docket unless otherwise ordered by the court.
Calling for dock
1389. 
Sec. ISO.) On the first day of the term, or on such day aet.
may be fixed by the court, the docket shall be called, and if a jury is
demanded by either party, such demand shall then be made, and if not
then made, the right to a trial by jury shall be regarded as waived and
the cause shall be tried by the court, unless the court shall otherwise
order. The party in whose favor the verdict of the jury shall be, shall
pay to the clerk of the court the amount of the per diem of the jurors
before the verdict shall be recorded. In case of a disagreement of the
jury, the party who demanded the jury in the first instance shall pay
to the clerk of the court the per diem of the jurors at the time of the dis
charge of the jury or within such time as the court may order. All
sums so paid shall be taxed and allowed as part of the costs of the party
paying the same, if judgment be finally rendered in his favor. In all
cases, both at law and in equity, either party shall have the right to sub
mit all issues of fact to a jury.
1390. (See. 181.) When a case is called for trial, the issues of law
arising on the pleadings, and all pleas in abatement and other dilatory
pleas remaining undisposed of shall be determined, and it shall be no
cause for the postponement of trial of the issues of law that a party is
not prepared to try the issues of fact. When juries are demanded, all
issues of law and all pleas which do not go to the merits of the case shall
be disposed of by the court before the case is called for trial on the
merits. The rules hereinafter prescribed for the trial of causes before
the jury shall govern in trials by the court so far as may be applicable.

Sec. 182.) The parties may in any case submit the matter
in controversy between them to the court upon an agreed statement of
facts made out and signed by them or counsel, and filed with the clerk,
upon whicli judgment shall be rendered as in other cases, and in such
case the statement so agreed to and signed, and certified by the court to
be correct, and the judgment rendered thereon, shall constitute the record
of the cause.

Sec. 183.) In all cases brought up from inferior courts,
whether by appeal or certiorari, the case shall be tried de novo.

Sec. 184.) In suit tried by a jury the trial shall proceed
in the following order, unless the court should for good cause, to be
stated in the record, otherwise direct :
1. The plaintifff or his counsel shall read his complaint to the jury
and make a statement of his case before introducing his evidence.
2. The defendant or his counsel shall read his answer and then make
» statement of his case to the jury, or he may, at his election, defer
making such statement until after the close of the testimony on behalf
of the plaintifff.
3. The statement referred to in this section shall be confined to a
concise and brief statement of the facts which the parties propose to es
tablish by evidence on the trial.
Jury trial of
right In all cases.
Issues, order of
disposition of.

S u b m Isslon on
agreed ease.

Trial de novo on
appeal.
Order of trial In
oases tried by
jury.

Omission In tes
timony may be
supplied.

Charge of the
court and argu
ment to the Jury.

N o n-sult. when
may be taken.

Conduct nf Jury
after retiring.

Duties of officer
In charge of Jury.

Jury must be ad
monlshed on sep
aration.
4. Xothing herein shall be deemed obligatory on either plaintifff or
defendant to make the statement herein provided for, but either party
may decline to make such statement.
5. The plaintifff shall then introduce his evidence.
6. _ The defendant shall then introduce his evidence.
7. The intervenor, if any, shall then introduce his evidence.
8. The parties shall then be confined to rebutting testimony on each
side.

Sec. 185.) The court may, at its discretion, at any time
before the conclusion of the argument, where it appears to be necessary
to the due administration of justice, allow a party to supply an omission
in the testimony, on such terms and under such limitations as the court
may prescribe.

Sec. 186.) After the evidence is closed and before the com
mencement of the argument, the court shall charge the jury. The
parties may then submit the case to the jury in argument; the party
having under the pleadings the burden of proof on the whole case shall
be entitled to open and close the argument; where there are several
parties having several claims or defenses, and represented by different
counsel, the court shall prescribe the order of argument between them.

Sec. 187.) At any time before the jury have retired the
plaintifff may take a non-suit, but he shall not thereby prejudice the
right of an adverse party to be heard on his own claim for affirmative
relief ; when the case is tried by the judge, such non-suit may be taken
at any time before the decision is announced.

Sec. 188.) The jury may either decide the case in court
or retire for deliberation. If they retire, they shall be kept together
in some convenient place, under the charge of an officer, until they
agree upon a verdict, or are discharged by the court ; but the court may,
in its discretion, permit them to separate temporarily for the night
and at their meals and for other proper causes.

Sec. 189.) The officer having the jury under his charge
shall not suffer any communication to be made to them, or make any
himself, except to ask them if they have agreed upon their verdict, unless
by order of the court. And he shall not, before the verdict is rendered,
communicate to any person the state of their deliberations or the verdict
agreed upon.

Sec. 190.) If the jury are permitted to separate, either dur
ing the trial or after the case is submitted to them, they shall be admon
ished by the court that it is their duty not to converse with or suffer
themselves to be addressed by any other person on any subject connected
with the trial.

Sec. 191.) When the jury wish to communicate with the
court they shall make their wish known to the officer having them in
charge, who shall inform the court thereof, and they may he brought
into open court, and, through their foreman, shall state to the court,
either verbally or in writing, what they desire to communicate.

Sec. 192.) The jury may, after the cause is submitted to
them, be discharged by the court when they can not agree and both par
ties consent to their discharge, or when they have been kept together for
such time as to render it altogether improbable that they can agree.

Sec. 193.) They may also be discharged by the court when
any calamity, sickness or accident may, in the opinion of the court, re
quire it.

Sec. 194.) The final adjournment of the court before the
jury have agreed upon a verdict discharges them.

Sec. 195.) Where a jury has been discharged as herein
provided, without having rendered a verdict, the cause may again be
tried at the same or another term.

Sec. 196.) The court may during the retirement of a jury,
proceed to other business and adjourn from time to time, but shall be
deemed open for all purposes connected with the case before the jury.

Sec. 197.) In all cases where a trial of an issue of fact is
held by the courts of record of the territory, the decision of the court
shall be in writing, and filed with the clerk within thirty days after the
trial takes place. In giving the decision, the facts found and the con
clusions of law shall be separately stated. Judgment upon the decision
shall be entered accordingly.

Jury may commanic ate with
court, how.

D 1 s c h a r ge of
Jury without
agreement.

D ischarge from
sickness, etc.

Final adjourn
ment discharges.
Cause to be tried
again after disa
greement of Jury.
Court may trans
act business after
retirement of
jury.
Decision by
court, when and
how rendered.

CHAPTER XII.
CHARGES AND INSTRUCTIONS TO THE JURY.
Charge of the

Sec. 198.) Before the argument of a cause the judge may, court,
when and
H open court, deliver a charge to the jury on the law of the case. The how given.
charge shall be in writing, unless waived, and signed by the judge. If
a stenographer takes down the charge, the writing may be dispensed
Kith, but the same shall, at the request of either party, be written and
filed in the case, and shall be signed by the judge when so written.
to state

Sec. 199.) The charge shall not comment on the weight of theCharge
law only.
evidence, but shall instruct the jury as to the law arising on the facts,
and the charge shall submit all controverted questions of fact solely to
the decision of the jury.
Requests for In

Sec. 200.) Either party may, before the charge is given,
structions.
present to the court, in writing, such instructions as he desires to have
given to the jury, and for this purpose a reasonable time therefore shall
be given ; the court shall pass on the same, and either give or refuse the
same as asked ; if given, the judge shall, on the margin of each instruc
tion, write the word "given" in ink, and sign his name thereto in ink;
and if refused, he shall, in like manner, write the word "refused," and
sign his name thereto.
Chan re to be

Sec. 201.) Xo further instructions shall be given to the
deemed excepted
to.
jury after the argument begins. The charge of the court and all in
structions asked by either party shall be filed with the clerk and shall
constitute a part of the record, and shall be regarded as excepted to and
subject to revision for error, without the necessity of taking exceptions
thereto. The charge and instructions given by the judge may be used
by the parties or their attorneys in the argument to the jury.

Sec. 202.) When the jury have agreed upon their verdict
Proceedings
when Jury have
airreed upon a ver they shall be conducted into court by the officer having them in charge,
dict.
and their names shall be called by the clerk, and they shall deliver their
verdict to the clerk.
Verdict must be

Sec. 203.) The verdict shall be in writing and signed by
In writ ing and
signed by fore the foreman.
man.

Sec. 204.) In all trials of civil cases, except cases cog
Verdict by threefourths of jury. In
what cases.
nizable at common law, in the courts of this territory, where a jury of
twelve persons shall be empaneled to try such cause, the concurrence of
three-fourths of such jury shall be sufficient to render a verdict therein.
And in all such jury trials, when the said jury of twelve persons shall
unanimously agree upon a verdict, said verdict shall be signed by the
foreman thereof, and returned into court ; but where such jury do not
unanimously agree upon a verdict, but three-fourths thereof do agree,
then said three-fourths of such jury shall sign the verdict so agreed
upon by them, and notify the court of such fact, and thereupon all of
said jury shall be returned into court, and shall then deliver to the court
the verdict so signed by three-fourths of such jury ; and the court shall
receive and cause to be read and recorded such verdict in the cause, and
judgment shall be entered thereon as in other cases now provided by law.

Sec. 205.) The clerk or the court shall read the verdict
aloud and the court shall inquire of the jury if such is their verdict.
If any juror disagrees to the verdict, they shall again be sent out to
further consider the case, but if not, the court shall receive the same and
order the same to be entered in the minutes, and the jury shall be dis
charged ; Provided, That in cases where a verdict may be rendered by
three-fourths of the jury, the verdict shall be received unless more than
three jurors disagree thereto.

Sec. 206.) When the verdict is announced either party
may require the jury to be polled, which is done by the clerk or judge
asking each juror separately if such is his verdict. If any juror
answers in the negative, the jury shall again be sent out for further
deliberation; but if each juror concurs in the verdict, the same shall
be received and noted in the docket, except in cases provided for in
the two succeeding sections, and the jury shall be discharged. Pro
vided, That in cases where a verdict may be rendered by three-fourths
of the jury, the verdict shall be received unless more than three jurors
answer in the negative.

Sec. 207.) If the verdict is informal or defective, the
court may direct it to be reformed at the bar, and where there has been
a manifest miscalculation of interest, the court may direct a computa
tion thereof at the bar, and the verdict may, if the jury assent thereto,
be reformed in accordance with such computation.

Sec. 208.) If the verdict is not responsive to the issue sub
mitted to the jury, the court shall call their attention thereto, and send
them back for further deliberation.

Sec. 209.) The verdict of the jury is either general or
special. A general verdict is one whereby the jury pronounces gener
ally in favor of one or more parties to the suit upon all or any of the
issues submitted to them. A special verdict is one wherein the jury
finds the facts only on issues submitted to them under the direction of
the court.

Sec. 210.) The special verdict must find the facts as estab
lished by the evidence, and note the evidence by which they are estab
lished, and the findings must be such as that nothing remains for the
court but to draw from such facts the conclusions of law.

Sec. 211.) A special verdict so found shall, as between
the parties, be conclusive as to the facts found.

Sec. 212.) Where the court does not instruct the jury to
Verdict, how re
ceived.

Polling the ju
ry.

Informal verdict
may be corrected.

Verdict not re
sponsive to Issue.

General and soeclal verdicts.

Sue clal verdict
to find what.

S p e clal verdict
conclusive as to
facts found.
Verdict to be gen
eral unless other
wise directed.
find a special verdict, the verdict shall he general,
comprehend "the
1422, C^*5- 2 13.) The verdict shall comprehend the whole issue, or
whole issue.
a]j the
submitted to them.
amountd'or ^eco'v
Sec- 2140 When a verdict is found for the plaintifff in an
eiy'
action for the recovery of money or for the defendant, when a counter

verdict,
of
form
In notwant
to Invalidate judgment.

claim for the recovery of money is established exceeding the amount
of the plaintifff's claim as established, the jury shall also find the amount
of the recovery.

Sec. 215.) In an action for the recovery of a specific per
sonal property, if the property has not been delivered to the plaintifff,
or the defendant, by his answer, claim a return thereof, the jury, if
their verdict be in favor of the plaintifff, or if, being in favor of the de
fendant, they also find that he is entitled to a return thereof, shall find
the value of the property, and may at the same time assess the damages,
if any are claimed in the complaint or answer, which the prevailing
party has sustained by reason of the taking or detention of such property,
1
Sec. 216.)s Xo special
form of verdict is required,
r
i
> and
where there has been a substantial compliance with the requirements

sealed verdict.

of the law in rendering a verdict, the judgment shall not be arrested or
reversed for mere want of form therein.

Sec. 217.) The court may direct the jury to bring in a

lions3!)? replevin"

sealed verdict at the opening of the court in case of an agreement dur
ing a recess or adjournment for the day.
i
n
t
erroRatoriea
1427. 
Sec.
218.)' In all cases,' whether law or chancerv, where
may be submitted
x
to jury, when.
more than one material issue of fact is joined, interrogatories may, under
proper instructions, be submitted to the jury by the court in writing,
and they shall be answered by the jury : Provided, That such interrog
atories shall be plain,* terse, direct and simple, shall each be confined
to a single question of fact, and shall be so framed as to be answered by
yes or no, and shall be so answered.

Sec. 219.) The judgment of the court shall conform to
the pleadings, the nature of the case proved, and the verdict, if any and
shall be so framed as to give the party all the relief to which he may be
entitled either in law or equity.

Sec. 220.) Judgment may in a proper case be given for
or against one or more of several plaintifffs, or against or for one or
more of several defendants or intervenors.

Sec. 221.) When the judgment is for the conveyance of
real estate, or for the delivery of personal property, the decree may pass
the title to such property without any act to be done on the part of the
party against whom the judgment is rendered.

Sec. 222.) The court shall cause its judgment and decree
to be carried into execution, and when the judgment is for personal
property, and it is shown by the pleadings and evidence and verdict, if
any, that such property has an especial value to the plaintifff, the court
may award a special writ for the seizure and delivery of such property
to the plaintifff and the court may, in addition to the other relief granted
in such case, enforce its judgment by attachment, fine and imprison
ment.

Sec. 223.) Judgments for the foreclosure of mortgages
and other liens shall be that the plaintifff recover his debt, damages and
costs, with a foreclosure on the plaintifff's lien on the property subject
thereto, and (except in judgments against executors, administrators
and guardians) that an order of sale shall issue to the sheriff or any con
stable of the county where such property may be, directing him to seize
and sell the same as under execution, in satisfaction of the judgment ;
and if the property can not be found, or if the proceeds of such sale be
insufficient to satisfy the judgment, then to make the money, or any
balance thereof remaining unpaid out of any other property of the
defendant, as in case of ordinary executions.

Sec. 224.) If the debt for which the mortgage, lien or in
cumbrance is held be not all due, so soon as sufficient of the property has
fen sold to pay the amount due, with costs, the sale shall cease, and
afterward, as often as more becomes due for principal and interest, the
court may, on motion, order more to be sold. But if the property can
not be sold in portions without injury to the parties, the whole may be
ordered to be sold in the first instance and the entire debt and costs
paid, there being a rebate of interest where such rebate is proper.

For or against
one or more of
several parties.
J u d gment may
pass title.

lad ement. how
enforced.

Judgment In ac
tion to foreclose
in ii r t a a ges and
other liens.

Property affect
ed by Judgment,
how sold.

J udgments

Sec. 225.) When a recovery of money is had against an
against executors,
esecutor, administrator or guardian as such, the judgment shall state a d m 1 n 1 strators
and guardians.
that it is to be paid in the due course of administration, and no execution
shall issue. Such judgment shall not be a lien on the real property of
a decedent.
J u d g m e nt on

Sec. 226.) Where service of process has been made by pub service
by publi
lication and no answer has been filed within the time prescribed by law, cation.
judgment shall be rendered as in other cases ; but in every such case a
statement of the evidence, approved and signed by the judge, shall be
filed with the papers of the cause as a part of the record thereof, except
in cases where the clerk is authorized to enter final judgment for money
or damages only.
Judgment
-: a Inst partners
pmn. rs

Sec. 227.) Where suit is against several partners, jointly
^Teda11 aie not indebted upon contract, and the summons has been served upon some
wL.
served
of such partners, but not \ipon all, judgment may be rendered therein
against such partnership and against the partners actually served, but
no personal judgment or execution shall be awarded against those not
served.
confession
of
1
Sec. 228.)' . !N"o Jjudgment
bv confession shall be entered in
ludgment.
6
any of the courts of this territory upon any note, bond or other instru
ment in writing for the payment of money, under the authority of a
power of attorney to confess judgment thereon unless such authority be
executed and duly acknowledged in the manner prescribed by law for
the acknowledgment of deeds, on a day subsequent to the date on which
the indebtness to be confessed became due and payable,
other judgments
1438. 
Sec. -229.) The court may render such other judgments
and in such form as may be authorized by law.
a g a" n sKt "heMir
1439, (^ec. 230-) If an action be brought against a sheriff for
conclusive, when. an act ^one fa virtne of his office, and he give written notice thereof to
the sureties on any bond of indemnity received by him, the judgment
recovered therein shall be conclusive evidence of his right to recover
against such sureties, and the court, or judge in vacation, may, on mo
tion, upon notice of five days, order judgment to be entered up against
them for the amount so recovered, including costs.
enteredItbyiacierk

Sec. 231.) In actions arising upon contract for the recove° oniy.n for mon' ei7 °^ money or damages only, if no answer has been filed within the
time specified in the summons, the clerk, upon the application of the
plaintifff, shall enter the default of the defendants served, and if the ac
tion be against defendants jointly liable, he shall immediately thereafter
enter judgment in the amount sued for in the complaint, including the
costs, against all the defendants thus jointly liable, and such judgment
may be enforced against the joint property of all and the separate prop
erty of the defendants served. If the action be against the defendants
severally liable, he shall enter judgment against all the defendants
served in the same manner as if they were the only defendants.
Default
and
an1
Sec. 232.)' In other actions, if no answer has been filed
plication for judgment.
within the time specified in the summons, the clerk shall enter the de
fault of the defendant, and thereafter the plaintifff may apply at the first
or any subsequent term of the court for the relief demanded in the com
plaint. If the taking of an account or proof be necessary to enable the court to give judgment or to carry the judgment into effect, the court
may take the account or hear the proof, or may, in its discretion, order
a reference foj that purpose, and where the action is for the recovery of
damages in whole or in part, the court may order the damages to he as
sessed by a jury, or if, to determine the amount of damages, the exami
nation of a long account be necessary, by a reference as above provided.

Sec. 233.) A judgment may be entered in term time or
vacation.

Sec. 234.) Immediately after entering the judgment, the

J entered* when17
Judgment roil,

clerk shall attach together and file the following papers, which shall
constitute the judgment roll :
1. In case the complaint be not answered by any defendant, the sum
mons, with the return of service, and the complaint, with a memoran
dum indorsed on the complaint that the default of the defendant in not
answering was entered, and a copy of the judgment.
2. In all other cases the summons, pleading and a copy of the judg
ment, and any orders relating to a change of the parties.
1
Sec. 235.) When a judgment is recovered against any one
or more of several persons by proceedings, provided in this title, those
who were not originally served with the summons and did not appear
to the action may be summoned to show cause why they should not be
bound by the judgment in the same manner as though they had been
originally served with the summons.

Sec. 236.) The summons, as provided in the last section,
shall describe the judgment, and require the person summoned to show
cause why he should not be bound by it, and shall be served in the same
manner and returnable within the same time as the original summons.
It shall not be necessary to file a new complaint.

Sec. 237.) The summons shall be accompanied by an affi
davit of the plaintifff, his agent, representative or attorney, that the
judgment or some part thereof remains unsatisfied, and shall specify
the amount due thereon.

Sec. 238.) Upon such summons, the defendant may answer
within the time specified therein, denying the judgment, or setting up
any defense which may have arisen subsequently ; or he may deny his

J o In t d e Mors
not served may be
summoned to
show cause, when.

Sum mons, con
tents of.

Summons to be
a c c o m uanled by
affidavit.

Answer of joint
debtor.
liability on the obligation upon which the judgment was recovered, ex
cept a discharge from such liability by the statute of limitation.
fading in such

Sec. 239.) If the defendant in his answer deny the judg
ment, or set up any defense which may have arisen subsequently, the
summons, with the affidavit annexed, and the answer, shall constitute
the written allegations in the case. If he deny his liability on the ob
ligation upon which the judgment was recovered, a copy of the original
complaint and judgment, the summons, with the affidavit annexed, and
the answer, shall constitute such written allegations.
issue, how tried.
1449. (g^ 240.) The issue framed may be tried as in other
cases ; but when the defendant denies in his answer any liability on the
obligation upon which the judgment was rendered, if a verdict be found
against him, it shall be for the amount remaining unsatisfied on such
original judgment, with interest thereon.

Sec. 241.) Any party in whose favor a verdict or judg
ment has been rendered may, in open court, remit any part of such ver
dict or judgment, and such remitter shall be noted on the docket and
entered in the minutes, and execution shall thereafter issue for the bal
ance only of such judgment after deducting the amount remitted, but
Not to affect such remitter shall not affect the right of the opposite party to appeal
right of appeal.
from the judgment, and for that purpose the amount of the original
ca?ion!tter '° Ta

judgment shall be considered the amount in controversy.

Sec. 242.) Any party may make such remitter in vacation

by executing and filing with the clerk a release in writing, signed by
him or his attorney of record, and attested by the clerk with the seal of
his office ; such release shall constitute a part of the record of the cause,
and any execution thereafter issued shall be for the balance only of the
judgment after deducting the amount remitted.
corV^ed^in^pen

Sec. 243.) Where there shall be a mistake in the record of
court.
any judgment or decree, the judge may, in open court, and after notice
of the application therefore has been given to the parties interested in
such judgment or decree, amend the same according to the truth and
justice of the case, and thereafter the execution shall conform to the
judgment as amended.

Sec. 244.) Where in the record of any judgment or decree
of anv court there shall be a mistake, miscalculation or misrecital of any
sum or sums of money, or of any name or names, and there shall be
among the records of the cause any verdict or instrument of -writing
whereby such judgment or decree may be safely amended, it shall be the
duty of the court in which such judgment or decree shall be rendered,
and the judge thereof in vacation, on application if either party, to
amend such judgment or decree thereby according to the truth and jus
tice of the case ; but the opposite party shall have reasonable notice of
the application for such amendment.

Sec. 245.) The judge making such correction in vacation
shall embody the same in a judgment, and shall certify thereto and de
liver the same to the clerk, who shall enter the same in the minutes.
Such judgment shall constitute a part of the record of the cause, and
any execution thereafter issued shall conform to the judgment as cor
rected.

Sec. 246.) A remitter or correction made as provided in
any of the preceding sections shall, from the making thereof, cure any
error in the verdict or judgment by reason of such excess.

Sec. 247.) Whenever any judgment shall have heretofore
teen rendered or shall hereafter be rendered in any of the courts of this
territory upon the judgment of any other state, territory or foreign coun
try, and such foreign judgment shall, after the rendition of a judgment
thereon in any court of this territory, be reversed by the court of appeals
or court of last resort of the state, territory or foreign country in which
such judgment was rendered, it shall be the duty of the court in which
such judgment was so rendered as aforesaid in this territory, upon due
proof being made to it of the reversal of such foreign judgment by the
foreign state or territorial court as aforesaid, to set aside, vacate and
annul the judgment so rendered in such court in this territory upon such
foreign judgment.

Sec. 248.) All rulings, the giving or refusal of instruc
tions, or other action of a district court, made, announced, given, had or
fone in any case pending before it, shall be deemed to be excepted to at
the time.

M 1 8 t a kes and
misrecitnls may be
corrected.

Corrections to be
embodied In judg
ment.

Remitter or cor
rection cures er
rors.
Judgment based
on foreign judg
ment to be set
aside, wben.

All rulings
dee med excepted
to.

CHAPTER XVII.
BILL OF EXCEPTIONS.

Sec. 249.) Whenever in the progress of a cause either r,,Hwe Sftlo<SnrtI
party is dissatisfied with any ruling, opinion or other action of the court, ,a en w enhe may except thereto at the time the same is made or announced, and at
his
request
time shall be given
to embody
in a written bill.
Requisites of bill

J such exception

of exceptions.

Sec. 250.) No particular form of words shall be required
in a bill of exceptions, but the objection to the ruling or action of the
court shall be stated, with such circumstances or so much of the evidence
as may be necessary to explain it and no more, and the whole as briefly
as possible.
orMpaayrtCof thenev"

Sec. 251.) The bill of exceptions may contain all the evidencedence, or so much thereof as may be necessary to explain the exceptions,
and if all the evidence or sufficient thereof to explain the exceptions is
contained in the bill of exceptions, no statement of facts shall be nec
essary.
t heVt1cat*0D "of

Sec. 252.) The partv preparing the bill of exceptions may
bill of exceptions.

include therein as many exceptions as he may deem necessary or proper,
and the signature of the judge at the end of the bill of exceptions shall
be a sufficient authentication thereof.
factsamaym be' re1
Sec. 253- ) Where the statement of facts contain all the eviferred to. when.
dence requisite to explain the bill of exceptions, it shall not be necessary
to set out the evidence in the bill of exceptions, but it shall be sufficient
to refer to the same as it appears in the statement of facts,
i nGBVl?is?ructeioUn8

Sec. 254.) The ruling or other action of the court in the
deemed excepted gjyjjjg^ refusing or qualifying of instructions to the jury shall be re
garded as excepted to in all cases,
tion" no't nec!£

Sec. 255.) Where the ruling or other action of the court apai)pearshof record' Pears otherwise of record, no bill of exceptions shall be necessary to re
serve an exception thereto.
tioU'U0eVtoCebe*

Sec. 256.) It shall be the duty of the party taking any bill
presented.
0f exception to reduce the same to writing, and present the same to the
judge for allowance during the term, or within ten days after the term,
if tried less than ten days before the end of the term, and the time may
be further extended twenty additional days : Provided, The order mak
ing such extension be made before the expiration of the term of court.
toWP?efenta?ionnt9

Sec. 257.) If the same shall be handed to the opposite at
torney or lodged with the clerk, it shall be deemed to have been pre
sented to the judge at that date, and the bill of exceptions as finally
settled shall be signed by the judge as of that date,
s en" Vd b during

Sec. 258.) It shall be the duty of the party taking any
term or within ten i_-n »
days after.
bill ot exceptions to reduce the same to writing, and present the same
to the judge for allowance during the term and within ten days after
the conclusion of the trial.

Sec. 259.) It shall be the duty of the judge to submit such
ted to opposite
bill of exceptions to the opposite party or his counsel, if in attendance

new trial and arrest of judgment.

on the court, and if the same is found to be correct, it shall be signed by
the judge without delay and filed with the clerk.

Sec. 260.) Should the judge find such bill of exceptions to co^^onts° ™hae*e
be incorrect, he shall suggest to the party or his counsel who drew it such
corrections as he may deem necessary therein, and if they are agreed to,
he shall make such corrections and sign the same and file it as provided
in the preceding section.

Sec. 261.) Should the party not agree to such corrections, ne"wdbui of except
the judge shall return the bill of exceptions to him, with his refusal in
dorsed thereon, and shall make out, sign and file with the clerk such a
bill of exceptions as will, in his opinion, present the ruling of the court
in that behalf as it actually occurred.

Sec. 262.) Should the party be dissatisfied with the bill aSJ may b?™l
of exceptions filed by the judge, as provided in the preceding section, he ere? when.bystand
may, upon procuring the signatures of three respectable bystanders, citi
zens of this territory, attesting the correctness of the bill of exceptions
as presented by him, have the same filed as a part of the record of the
cause, and the truth of the matter in reference thereto may be contro
verted and maintained by affidavits, not exceeding five in number on
each side, to be filed with the papers of the cause within ten days after
the filing of such bill of exceptions, and to be considered as a part of the
record relating thereto.

NEW TRIALS AND ARREST OF JUDGMENT.

Sec. 263.) New trials may be granted and judgments may
* set aside or arrested on motion for good cause on such terms and
conditions as the court shall direct.

Sec. 264.) Every motion for new trial shall be in writing,
and shall specify generally the grounds upon which the motion is
founded, and the same may be amended at any time before finally passed
"pon by the court.

Sec. 265.) Upon the general ground alleged that the court
wed in admitting or rejecting evidence, the court shall review all rulngs during the trial upon questions of evidence.

Sec. 266.) Upon the general ground that the court erred in
charging the jury and in refusing instructions asked, the court shall reNew trials may
be granted.

Motion to be In
writing and to
state grounds.

Error In admit
ting or rejecting
evidence.
Giving and refusing instruc
tions.
view all the charge and every portion thereof and the ruring refusing
any instruction asked, and it shall not he necessary in the motion to set
out the particular portion alleged as erroneous.
Evidence
insnffl1476. 
Sec.
267.)' Upons
ground
that the evidence does
dent
to sustain
»
r the general
judgment or ver- noi sustain the judgment or the verdict, the court shall review the suf
ficiency of the evidence in the case to maintain the judgment or verdict
without heing more particularly specified in the motion.
Notnew
more
1477. 
Sec.
268.)' Not more than two new trials shall he °granted
two
trialsthan
to
v
be granted.
j0 either party in the same cause, except when the jury have been guilty
of some misconduct or have erred in matters of law.
madetl0within8tfive

Sec. 269.) All motions for new trials in arrest of judgorTjudsmenterdIct ment or *° se* aside a judgment shall be made within five days after the
rendition of verdict or judgment, if the term of court shall continue so
long ; if not, then before the end of the term.
mfnedtatbeterdmteart
1479, (^ec- 2^0-) All motions for new trials in arrest of judgmade.c h m 0 tIon ment or to set aside a judgment shall be determined at the term of the
court at which the motion shall be made, unless continued for good
cause.
judKmetntaon eel"
(^ec. 271.) In cases in which judgment has been rendered
Ice by publication. on servjce 0f process by publication, where the defendant has not ap
peared in person or by an attorney of his own selection, a new trial may
be granted by the court, upon the application of the defendant, for good
cause shown, supported by affidavit filed within one year after rendition
of such judgment.
cess^nd'compiafnt

Sec. 272.) In the case mentioned in the preceding section
Id °tnes p™™edi°nB a complaint shall be filed and service of process made upon the parties
section.
adversely in the judgment as in other cases.
Bond
given,
when.to be

1482. 
Sec.
273.)' In the cases mentioned in the two preceding
v
r
c
sections process on such judgment shall not be suspended unless the de
fendant or party applying therefore shall give bond, with two or more
good and sufficient sureties, to be approved by the clerk, in double the
amount of the judgment or value of the property adjudged, payable to
the plaintifff in the judgment, conditioned that the party will prosecute
his complaint for new trial to effect, and will perform such judgment
as may be rendered by the court should its decision be against him.
chaser1 at° execu
Sec. 274.) Where, in such case as is mentioned in the
fectedsaby default three preceding sections, property has been sold under the judgment and
'" '"

execution before the process was suspended, the defendant, should he de
feat the plaintifff's action, shall not recover the property so sold, but
shall have judgment against the plaintifff in the judgment for the pro
ceeds of such sale.
tions and cost bins

Sec. 275.) Copies of all motions and cost bills filed in a
to be Berved.

THE RECORD,
case shall be, at the time of their filing, served on the adverse attorney ;
and no motion shall be submitted to the court or heard by it uutil notice
thereof be first given the adverse attorney.

Sec. 276.)

Every paper filed in a case shall constitute a thYbrecord.stltntes

a part of the record of the case, including depositions and all written
eridence and exhibits offered or admitted in evidence; and no papers
thus filed or admitted in evidence, or offered in evidence and rejected
by the court, need be incorporated in a statement of facts in order to
make it a part of the record.

Sec. 277.) Either party to a suit may, if he so desire, make facts,
the oral evidence given in the case a part of the record of the case, either
by a statement of facts or, at his election, by causing the court reporter's Transcript ot recotes of the trial to be extended by him, and duly certified over his hand porters notes"
as being a full, true and correct copy of all the questions propounded
to jurors and witnesses and their answer thereto, as well also all remarks,
nilings, opinions and judgments given and rendered during the trial
thereof by the judge presiding at the trial, and that it contains all the
oral evidence given in the case ; but in no case shall such extended notes
contain a copy of any written evidence, depositions, exhibits or argu
ments of counsel. When thus made, certified and filed, it shall consti
tute a part of the record of the case.

Sec. 278.) There shall be appointed in each judicial dis- noVaUp^^UT<^ter•
■net by the judge thereof a court reporter, who shall be skilled in sten'craphy, sober, and who shall bear a good reputation for honesty and
industry, and who shall hold his office at the pleasure of the judge ap
pointing such reporter. The court reporter so appointed shall receive
>n annual salary of $1,500 ; said salary shall be paid as follows : The
presiding judge in eaeh judicial district shall by order apportion among g ]
(
r'c several counties composing said district the amount of said salary reporter.
ffMch each county shall pay, having regard as nearly as possible to the
volume of judicial business in each of said counties composing said
district, which said order shall be filed with the clerk of the district
court in each of said counties, and a certified copy thereof shall be filed
m the office of the board of supervisors of each of said counties. Whenever said order is filed as above provided, the amount apportioned to
each county by the terms thereof shall be a charge against said county,
and shall be paid quarterly in the same manner as the salaries of county
officers.
to°bVanPo»-»5

Sec. 279.) The said reporter shall be allowed his actual
traveling ei.
. .
uenses.
traveling expenses m attending any district court, his account lor which.
when approved by the presiding judge, shall be allowed and paid as
other claims against the county wherein said court is held,
scrip? of °noteaan'

Sec. 280.) In addition to said salary the court reporter
shall receive for every transcript furnished by him in each case, from
the parties ordering the same, before the same is delivered, fifteen cents
per folio for the first copy and five cents per folio for each subsequent
copy; and no further compensation than in this section is provided
shall be paid a court reporter for taking down or transcribing the testi
mony and other proceedings in any case tried by the district court.
facts8 toeconsitst0of

Sec. 281.) The statement of facts shall consist of the name
of the juror, in case his evidence on his voir dire is desired to be pre
served, and the evidence given by him thereon, to be stated concisely
and in narrative form. Should, during the trial, objection be made
to any question propounded to any juror or witness, and if the ruling of
the court is desired to be preserved, it can be done by inserting in the
statement of facts the question in full, the objection thereto, and the
ruling of the court thereon.
facts.a howenmade
1491, (See. 2S2.) After the trial, either party may, at any time
and authenticated. during the term, or within the time stipulated, or within such reason
able time as shall be allowed by the court by an order for such purpose
made and entered, tender to the opposite attorney a statement of facts,
which must, in narrative form, contain all the evidence given in the
case, hut without repetition, prolixity or uncertainty. On its receipt
by the opposite attorney he shall, within a reasonable time, not to exceed
ten days in any case, unless the time be extended by a written stipula
tion duly signed and filed, return it to the one who tendered or caused
it to be tendered, together with a written statement signed by him.
wherein he shall agree that the same is true and correct, or, he shall state
that it is not correct, specifying where it is faulty, and setting forth such
changes and amendments as he may deem necessary to make it correct :
and thereupon such statement of facts and the agreement thereto of the
opposing attorney ; or the changes and amendments suggested shall be
presented to the trial judge, who shall either certify thereto that the same
is true and correct and sign such certificate, or first correct it as it mav
require, and then add his certificate thereto and sign it. Failure on
the part of the attorney to whom the statement of facts is tendered. t.>
agree to the correctness thereof or to suggest changes or amendments
thereto within the time above specified, shall be deemed an admission of
its correctness. When so certified, signed and filed it shall become a
part of the record of the case.

Sec. 283.) In cases where a particular ruling or rulings, indudelnX evi"
or a particular instruction or instructions are complained of, it shall ofnfacts.8tatement
not be necessary to transcribe all the evidence in the case or to insert it
in a statement of facts in order to get a ruling thereon in the supreme
court ; but in every such case only so much of the evidence as is pertinent
to the error or errors alleged need be preserved.

Sec. 284.) An appeal or writ of error may be taken to
the supreme court from any final judgment of the district court rendered
in civil cases, and from any of the orders mentioned in section 1214,
which the supreme court has jurisdiction to review.

Sec. 285.) The party taking the appeal is called the appel
lant, the adverse party the appellee.

Sec. 286.) The party suing out a writ of error is called the
"plaintifff in error," the adverse party the "defendant in error."

Sec. 287.) An appeal may, in cases where an appeal is
allowed, be taken during the term of the court at which the final judg
ment or order is rendered, by the appellants giving notice of appeal in
open court, which shall be noted on the docket and entered of record,
and by filing with the clerk an appeal bond or affidavit in lieu thereof,
as hereinafter provided, during the term, or within twenty days after
the expiration of the term.

Sec. 288.) In cases where the appellant is not required by
law to give bond on appeal, the appeal is perfected by the notice provided
for in the preceding section.

Sec. 289.) The writ of error may in cases where the same
is allowed be sued out at any time within one year after the finat judg
ment or order was rendered, and not thereafter, except in the case of
infants and persons of unsound mind, who shall have one year after the
removal of their respective disabilities within which to sue out such writ.

Sec. 200.) The party desiring to sue out a writ of error
shall file with the clerk of the court in which the judgment or order was

Appeal, when
lies.

Parties to ap
peal.
Parties to writ
of error.
Appeal, how
taken.

Appeal, when
perfected without
bond.
Wilt of error
when may be sued
out.

Petition fur writ
of error.

Contents of pe
tition.

Bond or affidavit
on writ of error.

Summons in er
ror.

Contents of
summons.

Writ of error,
when returnable.
Sum mons, how
served a nd returned.
S u mmons may
be served on at
torney or by pub
lication, when

Bond on appeal
or writ of error.

Affidavit In lieu
of bond.
rendered a petition in writing signed by him and addressed to such
clerk.

Sec. 291.) The petition shall state the names and residences
of the parties adversely interested, shall describe the judgment or
order with sufficient certainty to identify it and shall state that he desires
to remove the same to the supreme court for revision and correction.

Sec. 292.) The plaintifff shall also at the time of filing such
petition file with the clerk a writ of error, bond or affidavit in lieu
thereof as hereinafter provided.

Sec. 293.) Upon the filing of the petition and bond men
tioned in the three preceding sections it shall be the duty of the clerk
to issue forthwith a summons for the defendant in error, and if there
be several defendants residing in different counties one summons shall
issue to each of such counties.

Sec. 294.) Such summons shall be styled, dated and listed
by the clerk as other writs, and the date of its issuance shall be noted
thereon. It shall state the date of the filing of the petition in error, the
names and residences of the parties as alleged in the petition, the de
scription of the judgment as therein given, and that the writ of error has
been granted and shall require the defendant in error to appear and
defend such writ before the supreme court at the next term thereof.
Such writ shall be made returnable within sixty days from the issuance
of the same.

Sec. 295.) Such summons shall be served and returned as
in other cases, and if on the return it appears that the defendant has not
been found an alias or pluries writ shall issue.

Sec. 296.) Where it appears from the allegations in the
petition that the defendant is a non-resident, or is absent from the
territory, or where it appears from the return of the officer that he can
not be found in the county of his residence, the summons may be served
on his attorney of record. Service may also be made by publication
as in other cases.

Sec. 297.) The appellant or plaintifff in error, as the case
may be, shall execute a bond with two or more good and sufficient
sureties, to be approved by the clerk, payable to the appellee or defend
ant in error, in a sum at least double the probable amount of the costs
of the suit of both the appellate court and the court below, to be fixed by
the clerk, conditioned that such appellant or plaintifff in error, shall
prosecute his appeal or writ of error with effect, and shall pay all costs
which have accrued in the court below, or which may accrue in the ap
pellate court.

Sec. 298.) Where the appellant or plaintifff in error is
unable to pay the costs of appeal, or give security therefore, he shall
nevertheless be entitled to prosecute his appeal ; but in order to do so,
he shall be required to make strict proof of his inability to pay the costs
or any part thereof. Such proof shall be made before the probate judge
of the county where such party resides or before the court trying the
case, and shall consist of the affidavit of said party stating his inability
to pay the costs, which affidavit may be contested by any officer of the
court or party to the suit, whereupon it shall be the duty of the court
trying the case, if in session, or the probate judge of the county in which
the suit is pending, to hear evidence, and to determine the right of the
party under this title to his appeal.

Sec. 299.) When the bond, or affidavit in lieu thereof,
provided in the preceding sections, has been filed and the previous
requirements of this title have been complied with, the appeal or writ
of error, as the case may be, shall be held to be perfected.
1
Sec. 300. ) The bond or affidavit in lieu thereof provided in
the three preceding sections, shall not have the effect to suspend the
judgment, but execution shall issue thereon as if no such appeal or writ
of error had been taken.

Sec. 301.) Should the appellant or plaintifff in error, as
the case may be, desire to suspend the execution of the judgment, he
may do so by giving instead of the bond or affidavit in lieu thereof men
tioned in the four preceding sections or in addition to such bond, a bond
with two or more good and sufficient sureties to be approved by the clerk,
payable to appellee or defendant in error in a sum at least double the
amount of the judgment and costs, conditioned that such appellant or
plaintifff in error shall prosecute his appeal or writ of error with effect,
and in case the judgment of the appellate court shall be against him,
that he shall perform his judgment, sentence or decree, and pay all such
damages as may be awarded against him upon the appeal.

Sec. 302.) Where the judgment is for the recovery of land
or other property the bond shall be further conditioned that the appel
lant or plaintifff in error shall, in case the judgment is affirmed, pay to
appellee or defendant in error the value of the rent or hire of such
property in any suit which may be brought therefore.

Sec. 303.) Whenever a writ of error is sued out of the
supreme court, or an appeal is taken to the supreme court from any
judgment or order of the district court, and no other provision is made
bv the statute for the staying the execution of such judgment, or order,
on appeal or writ of error, the court or judge thereof from whose judg
ment or order the appeal or writ of error is taken, shall, on application
of the appellant or plaintifff in error, stay the execution of such judgment
30

Appeal or writ
of error, when
deemed perfected.

Bond or affidavit
does not suspend
execution.

S u p e r s e deas
bond.

Supersed cas
bond In actions
for land.

Court t o fix
amount of super
sedeas bond,
when.
COURTS.

or order until the final determination of such appeal or writ of error in
the supreme court, upon the appellant or plaintifff in error executing to
the opposite party an undertaking with at least two or more sufficient
sureties to be approved by the court or judge thereof in such amount as
such court or judge thereof shall direct, conditioned that the appellant
or plaintifff in error, as the case may be, will pay to the opposite party all
damages which said party may sustain by the not doing the particular
act or thing directed to be done by the judgment or order from which
said appeal or writ of error is taken.
bondUsnulpendsde"

Sec. 304.) Upon the filing of the bonds mentioned in the
two preceding sections the appeal or writ of error shall be held to be
perfected, and the execution of the judgment shall be stayed, and should
execution have been issued thereon the clerk shall forthwith issue a
supersedeas.
n u irrre d'Tto0tKirve

Sec- 305-) The Territory of Arizona shall not be required
1)0
to give bond on any appeal or writ of error taken by it in any civil case.
Executor*,
etc.
1515. 
Sec.
306.)' Executors,' administrators and guardians
apnot required to

Rive bond.
pointed by the courts of this territory shall not be required to give bond
t Affidavit of suree x c e p t ion to
sufficiency of sureties.

error
InAppeal
case ofor deatb
of partv.

in any appeal or writ of error taken by them in their fiduciary capacity.
1513. ( gee. 307. ) A bond on appeal or writ of error shall be of no
effect unless accompanied by the affidavit of each of the sureties that he
is worth the amount for which he has signed over and above his just
debts and liabilities exclusive of property exempt from execution. The
adverse partv mav except to the sufficiency of the sureties within five

days after the tiling ot the bond, and unless they or their sureties justify
before a judge of the court below or the district clerk within five days
thereafter (upon notice to the adverse party) the appeal shall be re
garded as if no such bond had been given.
1517. 
Sec.
308.) In case of the death of anv
v
%• partv
r j entitled to an
appeal or writ of error, the same may be taken by his executor, admin

istrator or heir. '

Sec. 309.) When an appeal
or writ...
of error has been perLL
fected, the clerk of the court shall, upon application of either party
make out and deliver to him a transcript of the record of the cause.
contents of

Sec. 310.) The transcript shall contain a eopv of all the
transcript.

minute entries, judgments and decrees of the court, and the original
files of the case, and the same shall be transmitted to the supreme court
as the record, and it shall not be necessary to file in the supreme court
copies of the papers on file in the district court,
summons and

Sec. 311.) If the pleadings or the judgment show an apHuae,Qininnottran- pearance of the defendant in person or by attorney, the summons and
script, when.

returns shall not be copied into the transcript.

to make
outcierk
tra
1521. (Sec. 312.) The parties may, by an agreement in writing,
with the approval of the judge, direct the clerk in making up the trans
cript for the appellate court to omit therefrom any designated portion
of the proceedings not deemed material to the disposition of the case in
such appellate court and in such case the transcript shall not embrace
such portions of the proceedings.

Sec. 313.) The parties may, without the necessity of set
ting out all the proceedings at length, agree upon such a brief statement
of the case and of the fact proven with or without copies of any part of
the proceedings as shall, in their opinion, enable the appellate court to
determine whether there has been any error in the judgment, and, if
the judge shall approve and sign such statement, the same shall be filed
among the papers of the cause and shall constitute part of the record,
and on appeal or writ of error, shall be copied into the transcript in lieu
of such proceedings themselves.

Sec. 314.) The transcript shall in all cases contain a copy
of the final judgment, notice of appeal, petition for writ of error and
summons in error with return of service thereon, bond on appeal, or
writ of error or affidavit in lieu thereof, an assignment of errors or
such of them as there may be and a statement of the costs that have
accrued in the cause.

Sec. 315.) The clerk shall certify to the correctness of the
transcript and sign the same officially with the seal of the court attached.
Such certificate shall state whether the same be a transcript of all the
proceedings in the cause, pr the transcript provided for in sections 311,
312 and 313. He shall indorse on the transcript the day on which it
was demanded and by whom, and the day on which it was delivered and
to whom, and shall sign his name officially thereto.

Sec. 316.) Where a cause shall be moved by appeal or writ
of error to the appellate court, the cause shall remain or be replaced on
the docket to await the mandate of the appellate court.

Sec. 317.) Upon the return of the mandate if the judg
ment of the court below be reversed by the appellate court, the cause
shall stand for trial in its order on the docket.

Sec. 318.) If the judgment of the court below be affirmed
in the appellate court, the court below shall make such orders as may
be necessary to carry out the judgment of the appellate court, and the
same shall be dropped from the docket.

Parties m ay
agree upon transcript.

Parties may
attree upon state
ment of the case.

Transcript must
contain what.

Certi fl c at e to
transcript.

Cause to remain
on docket to await
action of appellate
court.
Cause to stand
for trial If re
versed.
Judgment of af
firmance to be car
ried out.

Sec. 319.) When it is admitted by the plaintifff or ex
erty may be order
ed to be deposited amination of a party that he has in his possession, or under his control
in court.
any money or other things capable of delivery which, being the subject
of litigation, are held by him as trustee for another party, or which
belong or are due to another party, the court may order the same upon
motion to be deposited in court or delivered to such party upon such
conditions as may be just, subject to the further direction of the court.
Duty of officer

Sec. 320.) Whenever any money, debt, instrument of writ
with whom money
or property Is de ing or other article is paid or deposited in court to abide the result of
posited.
any legal proceedings, the officer having custody thereof shall seal up the
identical article received by him in a secure package, and deposit it in
some safe or bank vault, keeping it always accessible and subject to the
control of the court, and shall also enter in the minutes of the court, and
as part of the records of the cause a correct statement, showing each and
every item of money and property so received by him, on what account
received and what disposition has been made of the same.
Officer to turn

Sec. 321.) On the expiration of his term of office such
over m o n ey or
property deposited
officer shall turn over to his successor all such trust funds and other
to successor.
property and shall take his receipt therefore.
Officer not ex

Sec. 322.) The provisions of the two preceding sections
empted from lia
bility, when.
shall not exempt any officer or his sureties from liability on his official
bond, for any neglect or other default in regard to the funds therein
mentioned, for each shall be severally and jointly liable therefore.
Receivers,
when _ 15
Sec. 323.) . Judges of...
the district courts,
term time or
may
be appointed.
. in..
in vacation, may appoint a receiver in suits pending in said courts,
when no other adequate remedy is given by law for the protection and
preservation of property, or the rights of parties therein pending liti
gation in respect thereto.
Application, how

Sec. 324.) The application for the appointment of a re
ceiver shall be in writing, supported by affidavit. The adverse partv
shall be permitted to file counter affidavits, and the same with such other
testimony as the court may desire to admit shall be considered on the
hearing of the application.

Sec. 325.) Before appointing a receiver, the court or
judge shall require reasonable notice of the application to be given to
the adverse party, and in the meantime may restrain such adverse party
from removing, secreting or otherwise disposing of the property to the
injury of the applicant.

Sec. 326.) The order for the appointment of a receiver
shall fix the amount of the obligation to be filed by him in such sum as
the court shall deem sufficient to insure the faithful performance of
his duties.

Sec. 327.) No party, attorney or person interested in a
suit shall be appointed receiver therein.

Sec. 328.) Before entering upon his duties, the receiver
must be sworn to perform them faithfully and file a bond, with two or
more good and sufficient sureties, to be approved by the clerk, in the
amount fixed by the order of appointment, to the effect that he wall
faithfully discharge the duties of receiver in the suit and obey the
orders of the court therein.

Sec. 329.) When the bond of the receiver has been ap
proved and he has taken the oath faithfully to perform his duties,
which oath shall be indorsed on the bond, the clerk shall deliver to him
a certificate of his appointment, which shall contain a description of
the property.

Sec. 330.) The receiver shall have power, subject to the
control of the court, to bring and defend suits, to take and keep posses
sion of the property, to receive rents, to collect debts and generally to
do such acts respecting the property as may be authorized by the court.

Sec. 331.) The court may at any time, with or without an
application therefore and with or without notice, remove the receiver
and appoint another.

Sec. 332.) In all matters relating to the appointment of
receivers, and to their powers, duties and liabilities, and to the powers
of the court in relation thereto, the rules of equity shall govern, when
ever the same are not inconsistent with the provisions of this title.

Notice to ad
verse party.

Amount of re
ceiver's bond.

Who may not be
appointed r ecetvOath and bond
of receiver.

Certificate of ap
pointment.

Powers of re
ceiver.

Removal of re
ceiver.

Rules of equity
to govern.
Each party
re1542. . 
Sec.
333.)' . Each party
for
sponsible
for his
v
r J to any
J suit shall be responsible
r
own costs.
the costs incurred by him.
to8SSSw IcoSSty

Sec. 334.) The successful party to a suit shall recover of
his adversary all the costs expended or incurred therein, except where
it is or may be otherwise provided by law.
tioCns.8tB °n m°"

Sec. 335.) On all motions the court may give or refuse
costs at its discretion, except where it is otherwise provided by law.
axon's wwTh1

Sec- 3360 Where any plaintifff shall bring in the same
joined. have bee° court several suits against the same defendant for causes of action,
which should have been joined, he shall recover the costs of one action
only, and the costs of the other actions shall be adjudged against him
unless sufficient reasons appear to the court for instituting several
actions.
trfai°s8tB of new

Sec. 337.) The costs of all new trials may either abide the
event of the suit or may be taxed against the party to whom the new
trial is granted, as may be adjudged by the court at the time of grant
ing such new trial.
pleadings* are7 a<£

Sec. 338.) When the judgment is arrested or the verdict
?ient.>ed lnsuffl' set aside because of the insufficiency of the pleadings of the party in
whose favor the verdict or judgment is rendered, the costs thereof shall
be taxed against the party whose pleadings shall have been so adjudged
insufficient.
costs
on
appeal
1548. 
Sec.
339.)J In cases of appeal
or certiorari taken bv
or certiorari.
v
rr
- the
party against whom the judgment was rendered in the court below, if
the judgment of the court above be against him, but for a less amount,
such party shall recover the costs of the court above, but shall be ad
judged to pay the costs of the court below ; if the judgment be against
him for the same or a greater amount than in the court below, the
adverse party shall recover the costs of both courts.
Costs
on
appeal
1549. 
Sec.
340.)' In cases of appeal
or certiorari taken bv the
or certiorari.
x
rr
party in whose favor the judgment was rendered in. the court below, if
the judgment of the court above be in his favor for a greater amount,
such party shall recover the costs of both courts ; if the judgment be in
his favor but for the same or less amount than in the court below, he
shall recover the costs of the court below and pay the costs of the court
above.
costs may be de
Sec. 341.) All costs shall be payable at the time when the
mnnded before ser.
.
Tice performed.
service is rendered, except where otherwise provided by law, and any
officer may refuse to perform any service in any suit or proceeding,
criminal proceedings excepted, until such fees are paid.

Sec. 342.) At any time before trial, on motion of the de
fendant, supported by affidavit showing that the plaintifff is a non-resi
dent of the territory or that the plaintifff is not the owner of property
out of which the costs could be made by execution sale, the court shall
rule the plaintifff to give security for the costs ; and if the plaintifff fail
so to do within ten days next after the order is made, the case shall
stand dismissed.

Sec. 343.) All bonds given in security for costs shall au
thorize judgment against all the obligors in such bond for the said costs
to be entered in the final judgment of the cause.

Sec. 344.) If the plaintifff is a bona fide resident of the
territory and shall within five days after the rule to give security for the
costs shall have been made, make strict proof of his inability to give
the required security, then the rule to give security shall be vacated.
Such proof may be made by affidavits filed in the case ; but if exception
thereto be made by the defendant, then the plaintifff shall submit him
self to the court, on some day to be named by the court, when he can be
examined orally touching his inability to give such security.

Sec. 345.) The territory, nor the county, nor any execu
tor, administrator or guardian appointed by any court of this territory,
shall not in any case be required to give security for costs.

Sec. 346.) The provisions of this title relating to security
for costs by the plaintifff shall also apply to an intervenor, and to a
defendant who seeks a judgment against the plaintifff on a counterclaim
after the plaintifff shall have discontinued his suit under the provisions
of this title relating to discontinuance.

Sec. 347.) Where the costs are secured by the provisions
of an attachment or other bond filed by the party required to give
security for costs, no further security shall be required.

Sec. 348.) The party in whose favor judgment is rendered
and who claims his costs, shall file a statement of his costs, and shall
serve a copy thereof on the opposing attorney. In his statement he
may include therein the fees of officers, of witnesses, cost of taking
depositions, compensation of referees, and such other disbursements as
may have been made or incurred pursuant to any order of court or
agreement of the parties. The statement must be filed within ten days
next after judgment, unless, for good cause shown, the time shall be
extended by the court.

Sec. 349.) At any time within five days after receipt of a
copy of a statement of the costs by the opposing attorney, he may file

Security for
costs.

Terms of bond
for costs.

When plaintifff is
unable to elye se
curity for costs.

Who not re
quired to give se
curity for costs.
Inter Tenor or
defendant may be
required to Rive
security for costs,
when.

Bond not requir
ed when costs al
ready secured.
S t a t e m ent of
costs.

Eioep tions to
statement for
costs.
exceptions thereto, serving a copy thereof on the opposing attorney,
whereupon the court shall pass upon the same and by its order correct
the same to the extent that it requires correction.
est:°on "rdictteto

Sec. 350.) The clerk shall include the judgment entered
judgment! n ded lu by him the costs and interest on the verdict from the time it was ren
dered.

Sec. 351.) Words used in this title in the present tense
shall be deemed to include the future as well as the present ; words used
in the singular number shall be deemed to include the plural, and the
plural the singular; writing shall be deemed to include printing or
printed paper ; oath to include affirmation or declaration ; signature or
subscription to include mark when the person can not write, his name
being written near it, and witnessed by a person who writes his own
name as a witness.
issaebd0enas' bow
1561, (^ec- 3520 Subpoena shall be issued without the seal of

.deTuate^amaKes".
a oneoSunt good.

Actions may be
consolidated.

the court, and may be made returnable forthwith, or for any future day
of the term of court, and the same may be issued and signed by an
attorney of record in the case.

Sec. 353.) New trials may be granted as well when the
damages are manifestly too small as when they are too large.

Sec. 354.) Where there are several counts in the com
plaint and entire damages are given, the verdict or judgment, as the
case may be, shall be good notwithstanding one or more of such counts
may be defective.
1564. 
Sec.
355.) Whenever
several suits may be pending in the

same court by the same plaintifff against the same defendant for causes
of action which may be joined, or where several suits are pending in
the same court by the same plaintifff against several defendants which
may be joined, the court in which the same are pending may in its dis
cretion order such suits to be consolidated.

Sec. 356.) Every officer neglecting or refusing to perform
any duty required by him under the provisions of this title, shall, in
addition to the punishment prescribed by the penal laws of this terri
tory, be punished as for contempt and shall also be liable to damages
at the suit of any person injured.

Sec. 357.) The time in which any act provided by law is
to be done is to be computed by excluding the first day and including
the last day, unless the last day is a holiday, and then it is also excluded.

Sec. 358.) The clerk shall keep a motion docket in which
he shall enter every motion filed in his court, and number of the suit
in which it is made, if it relate to a suit pending the names of the par
ties or their attorneys with a brief statement of the nature thereof.

Sec. 359.) Whenever in the commencement or progress of
any suit it shall be necessary to serve any notice on any party to such
suit such notice may be served either by an officer authorized by law to
serve original process of the court in which suit is brought, or may be
pending, or by any person who would be a competent witness upon the
trial of such suit, every such notice may be served as an original writ
either on the party or his attorney of record and the return of such
notice when made by an officer or when made by any other person and
verified by the affidavit of such person, shall be received as evidence of
the fact of service subject to be repelled by contrary proof.

Sec. 360.) All motions relating to a suit pending which
do not go to the merits of the case may be disposed of at any time before
the trial of a cause.

Sec. 361.) Where a motion does not relate to a pending
suit and where the time of service is not otherwise prescribed, the ad
verse party is entitled to three days' notice of the motion.

Sec. 362.) All motions not relating to a suit pending shall
be taken up and disposed of in their order as other suits are required
to be.

Sec. 363.) Whenever in any suit it shall appear that an
investigation of accounts or examination of vouchers is necessary for
the purpose of justice between the parties, the court shall appoint one
or more auditors, not exceeding three, to state the accounts between the
parties and to make report thereof to the court as soon as may be.

Sec. 364.) The report of the auditor shall be verified by
his affidavit stating that he has examined carefully the state of the
account between the parties and that his report contains a true state
ment thereof so far as the same has come to his knowledge.

Sec. 365.) The report of the auditor shall be admitted in
evidence, but may be contradicted by evidence from either party when
exception to the same or any of the items thereof are made before the
trial

Sec. 366.) The court shall award reasonable compensation
to such auditor, which shall be allowed and taxed in the bill of costs as
in other eases.

Motion docket.

Service of no
tices.

D I s p osltlon of
motions.

Three days' no
tice of motion.

Order of disposi
tion of motions.

A ppolntinent of
auditor.

Report of audi
tor to be verified.

Effect of repor t
of auditor.

Compensation of
auditor.

COURTS.
1576i

(gec_ 367_)

Whenever the records and papers of a cause or

any part thereof may be lost or destroyed, either before or after the trial,
the same may be supplied by either party on motion before the court,
on three days' notice to the adverse party or his attorney.
iost°re0eords.supply

Sec. 368.) Such motion shall be in writing and signed by
the party or his attorney, and shall be verified by affidavit. It shall
state the loss or destruction of such records or papers, and shall be
accompanied by certified copies of the originals, if they can be had, and
if not, then substantial copies thereof as near as may be.
Procedure when

Sec. 369.) If the adverse party admit the correctness of
correctness of cop
ies Is admitted.
such copies and the court be satisfied that they are correct copies in sub
stance of the original, an order shall be made substituting such copies
for the originals.
correctndes8eo? cop
Sec. 370.) If their correctness is denied, or if the court do
Ios Is doDied.
not find them to be correct, the parties shall submit their respective
statements to the judge, and he shall hear proofs as to the contents of
such lost records and papers, and correct copies thereof shall be made
up under the direction of the judge.
aV5 T8uprpfyparrecy
Sec. 371.) The adverse party may in the same proceedings
may
orcl
supply any other portions of such records and papers desired by him.
agreVupon Tost
15^- (
Sec. 372.) The parties may, by consent in writing, with
records.
the approval of the judge, agree on a brief statement of the matters
contained in such lost records and papers, and the court may, by an
order, substitute such statement for the lost originals. Such substi
tuted copies or brief statement of their contents, as the case may be,
shall be filed with the clerk and shall constitute a part of the record in
the catise, and shall have all the force and effect of the originals.
fiiedein°sup r e°mbe
1582. (See. 373.) On taking an appeal or suing out a writ of
r
error the appellant or plaintifff in error shall cause to be filed in the
PROCEEDINGS IN CIVIL CASES.

supreme court, within thirty days next after the record of the case in,
the district court shall have been completed and the appeal shall have
been perfected, or, in case of a writ of error, the summons shall have
been served, the original record of the case, together with a copy of all
minute entries made in the case, the same to be certified to by the clerk
of the district court, with the seal of the court affixed, that it contains
a true copy of all minute entries made in the case, and that the papers
thereunto attached are all the papers constituting the record of the case.
On demand therefore by either party to the case, or his attorney, the
clerk shall cause such copy to be made and be certified to by him, shall
affix thereto the record of the case and shall transmit them to the clerk
of the supreme court, who shall, on their receipt, docket the case and
file the papers therein as one paper.

Sec. 374.) In case the appellant or plaintifff in error shall
fail to file a transcript of the record as directed in the preceding section,
then it shall be lawful for the appellee or defendant in error to file
with the clerk of the supreme court a certificate of the clerk of the dis
trict court in which any such appeal or writ of error may have been
taken, attested by the seal of his court, stating the time when such
appeal was perfected or such summons was served, whereupon it shall
be the duty of the supreme court to affirm the judgment of the court
below unless good cause be shown why such record was not filed by the
appellant or plaintifff in error; and in cases where a bond has been
given by the appellant or plaintifff in error, if a copy of such bond
accompanies such certificate of the clerk of the district court, the judg
ment shall, in like manner, be affirmed against the sureties in such
bond.

Sec. 375.) In all cases where the supreme court shall have
affirmed the judgment of the court below, under the provisions of the
preceding section, said court may, at any time during the term at which
anv such judgment was so affirmed, permit the transcript to be filed by
the appellant or plaintifff in error, and the case to be tried on its merits ;
provided, the appellant or plaintifff in error shall show to the court good
cause why the record was not filed by him in accordance with the pro
visions hereof.
Judgment to be
affirmed if record
not filed.

Court may per
mit record to be
filed.

Causes may bo

Sec. 376.) When any cause or suit may be taken up from submitted
on
briefs.
anv inferior court to the supreme court, whether by appeal, writ of
error or otherwise, it shall be lawful for the attorney, both for plaintifff
and defendant, to file in the papers of said suit or cause his written
brief or argument ; and the judges of said court shall be required to
notice the same as if it were the personal appearance of such attorney,
and shall not dismiss any suit or cause, where such brief or argument of counsel is filed with the papers, for want of other or further prose
cution.
ofBandVmb«,to

Sec. 377.) At a time not later than twenty days next after
be filed.
the filing of the record in the supreme court, appellant or plaintifff in
error shall file six copies of his brief and argument in the supreme
court, which must be printed or typewritten. This brief and argument
must plainly state the errors complained of by him and refer to the page
errors3 ' Knment of or pages of the record wherein the error is alleged by him to exist. It
shall also contain a brief statement of so much of the evidence in the
case as is relevant to the error alleged, and a citation of the authorities
relied on to support the allegation of error.
premedcoujt when

Sec. 378.) No judge of the supreme court shall sit in any
dtsquaiifle .
cause wherein he may be interested in the question to be determined, or
where either of the parties may be connected with him by affinity or
consanguinity within the third degree, or where he shall have been of
counsel in the cause.
want ofVform tor

Sec. 379.) There shall be no reversal on an appeal or writ
of error, nor shall the same be dismissed for want of form, provided
sufficient matter or substance be contained in the record to enable the
court to decide the cause upon its merits ; and when the court shall be
of opinion that an appeal or writ of error has been taken for delay and
that there was not sufficient cause for taking such appeal, then, and in
that case, the appellant or plaintifff in error, if he be the defendant in
the court below, shall pay ten per cent on the amount in dispute as
frPvSiou! appeaifor damages, together with the judgment, interest and cost of suit thereon
accruing. If in any judgment rendered in the district court there
shall be an excess of damages rendered, and before the plaintifff has
Release of ex- entered a release of the same in such court in the manner provided by
cesslve damages.
law, such judgment shall be removed to the supreme court, it shall be
lawful for the party in whose favor such excess of damages has been ren
dered to make such release in the supreme court in the same manner as
such release is required to be made in the district court ; and upon such
release being filed in said supreme court, the said court, after revising
said judgment, shall proceed to give such judgment as the court below
ought to have given if the release had been made and filed therein.

Sec. 380.) If any party to the record, in any cause now
pending in or hereafter taken to the supreme court, by appeal or writ partyof error, shall have died heretofore or shall hereafter die after ,the
appeal or writ of error bond has been filed and approved, or after the
writ of error has been served and before such cause has been decided by
the supreme court, such cause shall not abate by such death, but the
court shall proceed to adjudicate such cause and render judgment
therein as if all the parties thereto were still living, and such judgment
shall have the same force and effect as if rendered in the lifetime of all
the parties thereto : Provided, however, That this title shall not apply
to any suit or action in which the cause of action does not survive in
favor of or against the legal representatives of a deceased person.

JUDGMENT OF THE COUKT.

Sec. 381.) In all cases decided by the supreme court, the
judgment or decree of the court may be rendered in term time or in
vacation, and the opinion of the court shall be reduced to writing, and
such opinion shall be recorded by the clerk of the court in a book kept
by him for that purpose.

Sec. 382.) When the judgment or decree of the court
below shall be reversed the supreme court shall proceed to render such
judgment or decree as the court below should have rendered, except
when it is necessary that some matter of fact be ascertained, or the dam
ages to be assessed, or the matter to be decreed is uncertain, in either of
which cases the cause shall be remanded for a new trial in the court
below.

Sec. 383.) Whenever the supreme court, on the trial of a
cause brought from any inferior court shall affirm the judgment or de
cree of such inferior court, or when said court shall proceed to render
such judgment or decree as should have been rendered by the court be
low, and such judgment shall be for the same or a greater amount, or of
the same nature as rendered in the court below, said court shall render
judgment against the appellant or plaintifff in error and his sureties
on the appeal bond, a copy of which shall always accompany the tran
script of the record ; and said supreme court shall, in their discretion,
also include in their judgment or decree such damages, not exceeding
ten per cent on the amount of the original judgment, as the court may

Opinions to be
In writing.

Pro ceedlngs on
reversal of Judg
ment.

Pro ceedlngs on
affirmance of Judg
ment.

COURTS.
deem proper; and the judgment or decree of said court rendered as
contemplated in this section shall he final.
^Mandate, issued
1593< (g^ 384_) All judgments rendered by the supreme court
shall be final, and the clerk shall issue the mandate thereon within fif
teen days after the judgment is rendered ; but a mandate may issue on
any judgment before the expiration of said fifteen days by an order on
the minutes of the court, upon good cause shown therefore, on a written
application supported by proof satisfactory to said court.
issueIldtiitie motion

Sec. 385.) When a motion for a rehearing is made, the
posed of.
mandate shall not issue until the same is disposed of.
certifledento court

Sec- 38f30 When judgment is rendered on appeal or writ
of error it shall be certified by the clerk of the supreme court to the
clerk with whom the judgment roll is filed. The clerk shall attach the
certificate to the judgment roll and enter a minute of the judgment of
the supreme court on the docket against the original entry, and return
therewith the record in the case.

1596Sec. 387.)

Any party desiring a rehearing of any matter

determined by said court may, within fifteen days after the date of
entry of the judgment or decision and opinion of the court, file with the
clerk of said court his motion, in writing, for a rehearing thereof, in
which motion the ground relied upon for the rehearing shall be speci
fied, and a copy thereof shall be served on the opposite party or his at
torney.


