CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE.

ACT No. VIII. or 1859.

[Received the Assentof the Governor General on the 22nd
Mamh, 1859.]

AN ACT FOR SIMPLIFYING THE PROCEDURE on THE
COURTS or CIVIL JUDIOATURE NOT ESTABLISHED
BY ROYAL CHARTER.

WHEREAS it is expedient to simplify the Procedure of the
Courts of Civil Judicature not established by Royal Charter,
It is enacted as follows :—

CHAPTER I.

OF THE JURISDICTION OF THE CIVIL COURTS.

1. The Civil Courts shall take cognizance of all suits of a
Civil nature, with the exception of suits of which their cognizance is barred by any Act of Parliament, or by any Regulation of the Codes of Bengal, Madras and Bombay respectively,
or by any Act of the Governor General of India in Council.

2. The Civil Courts shall not take cognizance of any suit
brought on a cause of action which shall have been heard and

determined by a Court of competent jurisdiction in a former
suit between the same parties or between parties under whom
they claim.

3. The judgments of the Civil Courts shall not be subject
to revision, otherwise than by those Courts under the rules
contained in this Act applicable to reviews of judgment, and
by the constituted Courts of Appellate Jurisdiction.

4. No person whatever shall, by reason of place of birth, or
by reason of descent, be in any Civil proceeding whatever
excepted from the jurisdiction of any of the Civil Courts.

5. Subject to such pecuniary or other limitations as are or
shall be prescribed by any law for the time being in force, the
Civil Courts of each grade shall receive, try, and determine
all suits hereby declared to be cognizable by those Courts, if
in the case of suits for land or other immoveable property
such land or property shall be situate within the limits to
which their respective jurisdictions may extend, and in all
other cases if the cause of action shall have arisen, or the
defendant at the time of commencement of the suit shall
dwell, or personally work for gain, within such limits.

6. Every suit shall be instituted in the Court of the lowest
grade competent to try it. But it shall be lawful for the
District Court to withdraw any suit instituted in any Court
subordinate to such District Court, and to try such suit itself,
or to refer it for trial to any other Court subordinate to its
authority and competent in respect of the value of the suit to
try the same, whenever it may see sullicient cause ‘for so
doing. In like manner the ’ Sudder Court may order that the
cognizance of any suit or appeal which may be instituted in
any Court subordinate to such Sudder Court’ shall be transferred to any other Court subordinate to its authority and
competent in respect of the value of the suit or appeal to try
the same. 1 V

7. Every suit shall include the whole of the claim arising
out of the cause of action, but a plaintih‘ may relinquish any
portion of his claim in order to bring the suit within the
jurisdiction of any Court. If a plaintifff relinquish or omit to

sue for any portion of his claim, a suit for the portion so relinquished or omitted, shall not afterwards be entertained.

8. Causes of action by and against the same parties, and
cognizable by the same Court, may be joined in the same suit,
provided the entire claim- in respect of the amount or value

of the property in suit do not exceed the jurisdiction of such
Court.

9. If two or more causes of action be joined in one suit,
and the Court shall be of opinion that they cannot conveniently be tried together, the Court may order separate
trials of such causes of action to be held.

10. A claim for the recovery of land and a claim for the
mesne profits of such land shall be deemed to be distinct
causes of action within the meaning of the two last preceding
Sections.

11. If the suit be for land or other immoveable property
situate within the limits of a digle District, but within the
jurisdiction of diferent Courts, the suit may be brought in the
Court within the jurisdiction of which any portion of such
land or other immoveable property is situate, provided the
entire claim in respect of the value of the property in suit be
cognizable by such Court; but in such case the Court in
which the suit is brought shall apply to the District Court for
authority to proceed with the same.

12. In like manner, if the property be situate within the
limits of different Districts, the suit may be brought in any
Court, otherwise competent to try it, within the jurisdiction of
which any portion of the land or other immoveable property
in suit is situate, but in such case the Court in which the suit
is brought shall apply to the Sudder Court for authority to
proceed with the same; if the suit is brought in any Court
subordinate to a District Court, the application shall be submitted through the District Court to which such Court is
subordinate.

13. If the Districts within the limits of which the property
is situate, are subject to diiferent Sudder Courts, the application shall be submitted to the Sudder Court to which the
District, in which the suit is brought, is subject; and the
Sudder Court to which such application is made, may, with
the concurrence of the Sudder Court to which the other
District is subject, give authority to proceed with the same.

14. If, in a suit for land situate on the borders of the
Court's local jurisdiction,'the defendant object to the hearing
of the suit on the ground that the land is not included within
the local jurisdiction of the Court, the Court shall have power
to determine the point; and if the Court shall find that the
land is included within its local jurisdiction, it shall proceed
to try the suit. Provided that, if it be shown that the land in
dispute has been adjudged by competent authority to belong
to an estate, village, or other known division of land situate
within the local jurisdiction of another Court, the Court in
which the suit is brought shall reject the plaint, or return it
to the plaintifff in order to its being presented in the proper
Court.

15. No suit shall be open to objection on the ground that

a merely declaratory decree or order is sought thereby, and it
shall be lawful for the Civil Courts to make binding declarations of right without granting consequential relief.

CHAPTER II.

PRELIMINARY RULES.

16. All applications to any Civil Court, and all appearances
of parties in any Civil Court, except when otherwise specially
provided by this Act, shall be made by the party in person,
or by his recognized agent, or by a pleader duly appointed to
act on his behalf.

17. The  agents of parties by whom such applications and appearances may be made arelst. Persons holding general powers of attorney from parties
not within the jurisdiction of the Court, authorizing them to
make such applications and appearances on behalf of such
parties. a

Zndly. Persons carrying on trade or business for and in the
name of parties not within the jurisdiction of the Court in
matters connected with such trade or business only, where no
other agent is expressly authorized to make such applications
or appearances.

3rdly. Persons being ex—ofl'icio or otherwise authorized to
act for Government in respect of any suit or judicial proceeding.

4thly. Persons specially appointed by order of Government
at the request of any Sovereign Prince, or Independent Chief,
whether residing within or without the British territories, to
prosecute or defend a suit on his behalf.

Whenever the personal appearance of a party to a suit is
required by this Act, such appearance may be made by his
recognised agent, unless the Court shall otherwise direct; and
anything which by this Act is required or permitted to be
done by a party in person may be done by his recognized
agent. Notices given to or processes served on a recognized
agent relative to a suit shall be as efectual for all purposes
in relation to the suit as if the same had been given to or
served on the party in person, unless the Court shall otherwise direct; and all the provisions of this Act relative to the
service of notices or processes on a party to a suit shall be
applicable to the service of notices and processes on such

recognized agent. .
18. The appointment of a pleader to make any such application or appearance as aforesaid shall be in writing, and shall
be filed in the Court. When so filed, it shall be considered

to be in full force until revoked by a  filed in the Court.
All notices given to, or processes served on the pleader of any
party, or left at the office or ordinary residence of such
pleader, relative to a suit, and whether the same be for the
personal attendance of the party or not, shall be presumed to
be duly communicated and made known to the party whom
the pleader represents, and shall be as efectual for all purposes in relation to the suit as if the same had been given to
or served ontheparty in person,unless the Court shall otherwise direct.

, 19. When an odicer or soldier in the service of the Govemment is a party to a suit, and cannot obtain a furlough or
leave of absence for the purpose of prosecuting or defending
the suit in person, he may authorize any member of his
family or any other person to commence, conduct, and
manage the suit or the defense, as the case may be, in his
stead. The authority shall be in writing, and shall be signed
by the odicer or soldier in the presence of his commanding
odicer, who shall countersign the san1e, and it shall be filed
in the Court. When so filed, the counter signature of the
commanding odicer shall be suilicient proof that the authority

was duly executed, and that the odicer or soldier by whom it
was granted could not obtain a furlough or leave of absence
for the purpose of prosecuting or defending the suit in person.

' 20. Any person who may be authorized, as in the last preceding section mentioned, by an oilicer or soldier to prosecute
or defend a suit in his stead, shall be competent to prosecute
or defend it in person in the same manner as the odicer or
soldier could do if present; or he may appoint a pleader of
the Court to prosecute or defend the suit on behalf of such
officer or soldier. And all notices or processes relative to the
suit which may be served upon any person who shall be so
authorized as aforesaid by an oiiic er or soldier, or upon any
pleader who shall be appointed as aforesaid by such person to

act for or on behalf of such oilicer or soldier, shall be as effectual
for all purposes relative to the suit as if the same had been
served on the party in person or on a pleader appointed by

him.

-21. Women, who according to the custom and manners of

the country ought not to be compelled to appear in public,
shall be exempt from personal appearance in Court.

22. The Government may at its discretion exempt from

personal appearance in Court anypersonwhose rankinthe
opinion of the Government entitles him to the privilege of exemption, and may at its discretion withdraw such privilege.
The names of the persons so exempted (if any) residing within
the jurisdiction of the  Civil Court of each District
shallfrom time to time be forwarded to such Court by the
local Government, and a list of such persons (if any) shall be

kept in such Court and in the several subordinate Com'ts of
the District.

23. Every process required to be issued under this Act,
shall be served at the expense of the party at whose instance
it is issued, unless otherwise specially directed by the Court;
and the sum required to defray the cost of such service shall
be paid into Court before the process is issued.

24. If any plaint, written statement, or declaration in
writing required by this Act to be verified shall contain any
averment which the person making the verification shall know

_ or believe to be false, or shall not know or believe to be true,

such person shall be subject to punishment according to the
provision of the law for the time being in force for the punishment of giving or fabricating false evidence.

CHAPTER III.
or A surr TILL FINAL DEGREE.

OF THE DIBTITUTION OF SUITS.

25. All suits shall be commenced by a plaint which, except
when otherwise specially provided by this Act, shall be presented to the Court by the p1ainti&' in person, or by his
recognised agent, or by a pleader duly appointed to act on
his behalf.

26. The plaint shall be distinctly written in the language
in ordinary use in proceedings before the Court and shall
contain the following particulars :—1.—The name, description, and place of abode of the
plaintin‘.

2.—The name, description, and place of abode of the defendant, so far as they can be ascertained

3.—The relief sought for, the subject of the claim, the
cause of action and when it accrued: and, if the cause of
action accrued beyond the period ordinarily allowed by any
law for commencing such a suit, the ground upon which
exemption from the law is claimed.

The following are instances :—
If the suit be for money due on a bond or other written instrument :—Payment of due on (a band
or other written instrument as the oasegnay be), for the sum

of , bearing date the
day of - , and payable on the

day of , namely,-—
Interest . . . . .
Amount paid (if any)

Balance due

If the plaintifff claim exemption from any law of limitation,
say—“ The plaintifff was an infant (or as the case may be)

from the day of to the
day of .”

If the suit be for the price of goods sold :—Payment of
on account of maunds

of (rice, indigo, sugar, or as the case may be) sold on the
day of , and the price of

which became payable on the day of

, as per acwunt at foot.

If the suit be for damages for an injury done :—Payment of
on account of injury done to the
plaintifff, [here set out the nature Qf the injury, and state the

particulars qf the pecuniary loss (zjf any) 

4.—When the claim is for any property other than money,
its estimated value.

The following is an instance :—

If the suit be for an estate or for a share in an estate
paying revenue to Government :—Possession of the estate or
of share in the estate, called ,
situate in the Zillah of the sudder 
of which is and estimated value
(of which the plaintifff was dispossessed (or forcibly or fraudulently dispossessed, if the case be so) on the day of

p ; or to which the plaintifff became entitled
by inheritance from‘ (or by gift, purchase,
or otherwise, as the case may be) on or about the
day of

5.—When the claim is for land or for any interest in land,
the nature of the tenure or interest must be specified; and if
the claim be for land forming part of a  or other known
division, or for a house, garden, or the like, its situation shall
be described by the setting forth of boundaries, or in such
other manner as may suiiice for its identification.

6.—In all suits by or against the Government, or one of its
oihcers in his ohicial capacity, or any Corporation, or any
Company authorized to sue and be sued in the name of an
oaicer or trustees, the words “ The Government,” or “ The
Collector of ,” or otherwise as the
case may be, or the name of the Corporation, or the name or
names ofthe odicer or trustees of the Company, shall be inserted in Nos. 1 and 2 instead of the name and description
of the plaintifff or defendant. But in all other cases it shall
benecessarytospecifythenamesofalltheparties.

27. The plaint shall be subscribed by the plaintiff and his
pleader (if any). and shall be verified at the foot by the
plaintiff in the manner following or to the like efect :I (A. B.) the plszintifnamed in the above plaint do declare
thatwhatisstatedthcrcin is truetotlwbatofmyiufonnation
and belief.

28. If the plaintifff, by reason of absence or for other good
cause, be unable to subscribe and verify the plaint, the Court
may allow the plaint to be subscribed and verined on behalf
of the plaintiff by any person whom the Court may consider
competent to make the verification. In suits by a Corporation
or a Company authorized to sue and be sued in the name of
an officer or trustees, the plaint shall be subscribed and
verified on behalf of the Corporation or Company by any
Director, Secretary, or other principal oiiicer of the Corporation or Company who may be able to depose to the facts of
the case.

29. If the plaint do not contain the several particulars
hereinbefore required to be specified therein, or if it contain
particulars other than those required to be speciiied whether
relevant to the suit or not, or if the statement of particulars
be unnecessarily prolix, or if the plaint be not subscribed
andveriiied as hereinbefore required, the Court may reject

the plaint, or at its discretion may allow the plaint to be
amended.

30. If the amount or estimated value of the claim, as
stated by the plaintiff, be beyond the jurisdiction of the Court,
the plaint shall be returned to the plaintifff in order to its

being presented in the proper Court.

31. If it appear to the Court that the claim is improperly
valued, or being properly valued that the plaint is written
upon stamped paper of inadequate value, and the plaintifff,
on being required by the Court to correct such improper
valuation or to supply such additional stamp paper as may be
necessary, shall not comply with the requisition, the Court
shall reject the plaint.

32. If upon the face of the plaint, or after questioning the
plaintifff, it appear to the Court that the subject matter of the
plaint does not constitute a cause of action, or that the right
of action is barred by lapse of time, the Court shall reject the
plaint. Provided that the -Court may in any case allow the
plaint to be amended, if it appear proper to do so.

33. If it appear to the Court that the cause of action did
not arise,'~or that the defendant is not dwelling or personally
working foxgain within the limits of the jurisdiction of the
Court, or, if ' the claim relate to land or other immoveable
property, that such land or other property is not situate
within such limits, the Court shall return the plaint to the
plaintifff in order to its being presented in the proper Court.

34. A suit by a party ordinarily residing out of the British
territories in India, and not possessing any land or other
immoveable property within those territories independent of
the property in suit, shall not be entertained unlem the
plaintiff, at the time of presenting the plaint or within such
time as the Court shall order, furnish security for the payment
of all costs that may be incurred by the defendant in the

suit. In the event of such security not being furnished, the
Court shall return the plaint to the plaintiff.

35. If in any stage ofa suit it shallappeartotheCourt
that the plaintiff  sole plaintiff) is a person residing
out of the British territories in India, the Court may order
him, within a time to be fixed by such order, to furnish
security for the payment of all costs incurred and to be incurred by the defendant in the suit. In the event of such
security not being furnished within the time so fixed, the
Court shall pass judgment against the plaintiff by default,
unless he be permitted to withdraw from the suit under the
provisions of Section 97.

36. Whenever a plaint is rejected under any of the foregoing Sections, an appeal shall lie from the order rejecting
the plaint. The rejection of a plaint on any of the grounds
mentioned in Sections 29 and 31 shall not preclude a plaintifff
from presenting a fresh plaint in respect of the same cause of
action.

37. If the suit be for land or other immoveable property
situate partly within the jurisdiction of the Court and partly
within the jurisdiction of some other Court or Courts, the
Court shall proceed according to the rules contained in
Section 11, Section 12, or Section 13, as the case may be.

38. If the Court consider the plaint admissible, the particulars mentioned in Section 26 shall be entered in a book to
be kept for the purpose, and called the Register of Civil Suits ;
and the entries shall be numberd in every year according to
the order in which the plaint is presented. The Register shall
be kept in the form contained in the Schedule (A) hereunto
annexed.

39. When the plaintifff sues upon any written document or
relies upon any such document as evidence in support of his

claim, he shall produce the same in Court when the plaint is

presented, and shall at the same time deliver a copy of the
document to be filed with the plaint; if the document be an
entry in a shop-book or other book, the plaintifff shall produce the book to the Court together with a copy of the entry
on which he relies. The Court shall forthwith mark the
document for the purpose of identification; and after examining and comparing the copy with the original, shall return
the document to the plaintifff. The plaintifff may, if he think
proper, deliver the original document to be filed instead of the
copy. The Court may, if it see suilicient cause, direct any
written document so produced to be impounded and kept in
the custody of some officer of the Court, for such period and
subject to such conditions as to the Court shall seem meet.
Any document not produced in Court by the p1aintiE' when
the plaint is presented, shall not be received in evidence on
his behalf at the hearing of the suit without the sanction of

the Court.

40. If the plaintifff require the production of any written
document in the possession or power of the defendant, he
may, at the time of presenting the plaint, deliver to the
Court a description of the document, in order that the defendant may be required to produce the same.

OF SUMMONING THE DEFENDANT.

41. When the plaint has been registered, a summons under
the signature of the Judge and the seal of the Court shall be
issued to the defendant to appear and answer the claim, on a
day to be therein specified, in person or by a pleader of the
Court duly instructed and “able to answer all material questions relating to the suit, or by a pleader who shall be accompanied by some other person ableto answer all such questions.

The Court shall determine at the time of issuing the summons
whether it shall be for the settlement of issues only or for the

final disposal of the suit, and the summons shall contain a
direction accordingly.

42. If the Court see reason to require the personal attendance of the defendant, the summons shall order the defendant
to appear personally in Court on the day therein specified.
If the Court see reason to require the personal attendance of
the plaintiff on that day, it may make an order for such
attendance. Provided that no plaintifff or defendant shall be
orderedtoattendinperson, who at the time is bondfideresiding ata distance of more than fiity miles from the place
where the Court is held, unless he be resident within the
limits of the jurisdiction of the Court.

43. The summons to appear shall order the defendant to
produce any written document in his possession or power, of
which the plaintiff demands inspection, or upon which the
defendant intends to rely in support of his defense.

44. The summons shall be in the Form contained in the
Schedule  hereunto annexed or to the like effect.

45. The day for the appearance of the defendant shall be
fixed by the Court with reference to the place of residence of
the defendant, and the time necessary for the service of the
summons; and the day shall be so fixed as to allow the defendant a sullicient time to enable him to appear and answer in
person or by a pleader on such day.

46. In suits against a Corporation or a Company authorized
tosueandbesuedinthe name ofanofficer or trustees, the
Court may, if it think proper, require the personal attendance
of any Director, Secretary, or other principal officer of the

Corporation or Company who may be able to answer all
material questions relating to the suit.

SERVICE OF SUMMON8 ON THE DEFENDANT.

47. The summons shall be delivered to the Nazir or other

proper officer of the Court to be served by himself or one of

his subordinates, and such officer shall be responsible for its
due service.

48. Service of the summons shall be made by delivering or
tendering a copy thereof under the signature of the Judge
and seal of the Court; and when there are more defendants

than one, service of the summons shall be made on each
defendant.

49. Whenever it may be practicable the service shall be on
the defendant in person, unless he have an agent empowered

to accept the service, in which case service on such agent
shall be suiiicient.

50. Besides the recognized agents described in Section 17,
any person  within the jurisdiction of the Court may
be appointed an agent to receive the service of summonses
and other processes.

51. The appointment of such agent shall be in writing, and
the original appointment, or a copy thereof if the appointment be a general one, shall be filed in the Court.

52. The Government pleader in each Court shall be accounted the agent of the Government for the purpose of
receiving services of summonses and other judicial processes
against the Government, issuing out of the Court in which he
may be the pleader of Government.

53. When the defendant cannot be found, and has no

agent empowered to accept the service of the summons, it

may be made on any adult male member of his family residing with him. '

54. In all cases where the summons is served on the defendant personally or any agent or other person on his behalf,
the serving officer shall require the signature of the person on
whom the service may be made, to an acknowledgment of
service, to be endorsed on the original summons or on a copy

thereof under the seal of the Court. If such person refuse to
sign the acknowledgment, the service of the summons shall
nevertheless be held sufficient, if it be otherwise proved to the
satisfaction of the Court.

55. When the defendant cannot be found, and there is no
agent empowered to accept the service, nor any other person
on whom the service can be made, the serving oilicer shall fix
the copy of the summons on the outer door of the house in

which the defendant is dwelling; and if he is not dwelling in
the place mentioned in the summons, the serving officer shall
return the summons to the Court from whence it issued, with
an endorsement thereon that he has been unable to serve it.
Provided that, if the serving oihcer is informed that the defendant is to be found or has his dwelling in a place within
the jurisdiction er the Court other than that indicated in the

summons, the. oaicer may proceed to that place to serve the
summons.

56. The serving officer shall, in all cases in which the summons has been served, endorse on the o ' ' summons or on

a copy thereof under the seal of the Court, the time when
and the manner in which it was served.

57. When a summons is returned to the Court without
having been served, if the plaintifff shall satisfy the Court that
there is reasonable ground for believing that the defendant is
keeping out of the way of its officer for the purpose of avoiding the service of the summons, the Court shall order’ the
summons to be served by fixing up a copy thereof upon some
conspicuous place in the Court-house, and also upon the door
of the house in which the defendant shall have last resided, if
it be known where he last resided; or that the summons shall
be served in such other manner _as the Court shall think
proper. And the service which shall be substituted by order
of the Court, shall be as eh'ectual to all intents and purposes
as if it had been effected in the manner above specified.

58. Whenever service shall be substituted by order of the
Court by virtue of the power contained in the last preceding
section, the Court shall fix such time for the appearance of
the defendant as the case may require.

59. If the defendant be resident within the jurisdiction of
any Court other than that in which the suit is instituted, and
have no agent empowered to accept the service, the Court in
which the suit is instituted shall transmit the summons, either
by an officer of the Court or by post, to any Court having
jurisdiction at the place where the defendant resides, by which
it can be most conveniently served, and shall fix such time
for the appearance of the defendant as. the case may require;
and the Court to which the summons is transmitted, shall,
upon receipt of the summons, deliver the same to the N azir
or other proper oEicer of such Court, to be‘ served in the
manner above directed ; and upon the return of the summons

by the serving officer, it shall be re-transmitted to the ‘Court
from whence it originally issued. °

60. If the defendant be resident out of the British territories in India, and have no agent empowered to accept the
service, the summons shall be addressed to the defendant at
the place where he may reside, and forwarded to him by post:
in such case the time for the appearance of the defendant
shall be regulated by the time which may be required for
communication by post between the place at which the Court
is held and the place where the defendant resides; and if,
on the day fixed for the hearing of the suit, or on any day to
which the hearing may be adjourned, the defendant shall not

‘ appear in person or by pleader, the plaintiff may apply to the

Court, and it shall be lawful for the Court to direct that the
plaintiE shall be at liberty to proceed with his suit in such
manner and subject to such conditions as to the Court may
seem meet.

61. When the suit is for land or other immoveable property,

and the summons for any reason cannot be served on the
defendant in person, and the defendant has no agent empowered to accept the service, the summons may be served

on any agent of the defendant in charge of such land or other
immoveable property.

62. When the defendant is in the service of the Government, the Court may transmit a copy of the summons to the
head officer of the oiiice in which the defendant is employed,
for the purpose of being served on him, if it shall appear to
the Court that the summons may be most conveniently so
served. If the defendant be an o&icer or soldier, the Court
shall transmit a copy of the summons to the commanding
o$cer of the corps to which the defendant belongs, for the
purpose of being served on him. The officer to whom the
summons is transmitted, after causing the summons to be
served on the person to whom it is addressed, if practicable,
shall return it to the Court with the written acknowledgment
of such person endorsed thereon. If from any cause the
summons cannot be served upon the person to whom it is
addressed, it shall be returned to the Court by which it was
transmitted with information of the cause which has prevented
the service. ~ In such case the Court sliall adopt such other
means of serving the summons as it may deem proper.

, 63. When the suit is against a corporation or a company
authorized to sue and be sued in the name of an odicer or
trustees, the summons may be served by leaving the same
at the registered odice (if any) of the company, or sending it
through the postnoffice by a letter addressed to such office, or
by giving it to any director, secretary, or other principal
officer of the corporation or company.

64. Nothing contained in the preceding rules shall be construed to prevent the Court from substituting for the summons
a letter or other appropriate communication under the signature of the Judge and seal of the Court, when the person

whose appearance is required is of a rank which entitles him
to such mark of consideration. The letter or other communication shall contain all the particulars required to be stated

in the summons, and shall be treated in all respects as a
summons.

65. When a letter or other communication is substituted
for a summons under the authority of the last preceding
section, it may be transmitted through the post-office, or by a
special messenger selected by the Court, or in any other
manner which the Court may deem sullicient; unless the
party shall have an agent empowered to accept service of
judicial process, in which case delivery to such agent shall
be deemed sufficient service.

66. Whenever it is provided that any summons, letter, or
other communication may be transmitted to the person to whom
it is 'addressed through the post-oilice, proof that the same
was correctly addressed to such person at his place of residence, and that it was duly posted and registered according
to Section XXXVIII. of Act XVII. of 1854 (for the management of the post-017%-e, for the regulation of the duties of postage,
and for the punishment of ofences against the post—o17Ece), shall
be sufficient proof of the due service and delivery of the summons, letter, or ‘other communication, in the absence of evidence to the contrary.

OF SUITS AGAINST GOVERNMENT AND l’UBLIC OFFICERS.

67. If the suit be against the Government, the summons
shall be served on the Government pleader. The Court, in
fixing the day for the Government to answer to the, plaint,
shall allow a reasonable time for the necessary communication with the Government through the proper channels, and
for the issue of instructions to the Government pleader to
appear and answer on behalf of the Government, and may
extend the time at its discretion on the application of the

Government pleader. The Court may also, if it think proper,
direct the attendance of a person who may be able to answer
all material questions relating to the suit.

68. If the suit be against an officer of the Government for
an act which the plaintifff alleges to have been done by such
officer in his ollicial capacity, the summons shall be served
upon such oEicer in the manner hereinbefore provided.

69. If the oilicer on receiving the summons shall consider
it proper to make a reference to Government before answering to the plaint, he may move the Court to grant such extension of the time fixed in the summons as may be necessary
to enable him to make such reference and to receive orders
thereon through the proper channels; and the Court upon
such motion may extend the time for so long as shall appear
to it to be requisite.

70. If the Government shall undertake the defense of the

1 suit, the Government pleader shall be furnished with authority
y to appear and answer to the plaint; and, upon motion made
r_ by him, the Court shall order a note to thateifect to be

entered in the Register.
71. If such motion shall not be made by the Government

; pleader on or before the day fixed in the notice for the de; fendant to appear and answer to the plaint, the case shall

r proceed as in a suit between private parties, except that the
-. defendant shall not be liable to arrest before judgment.

: V.’ 72. If in any such suit the Court shall require the personal

3

L

appearance of the defendant, and the defendant shall satisfy
the Court that he cannot absent himself from his duty without
injury to the public service, the Court shall exempt him from
such appearance, but he shall be liable to be examined in any
way in which an absent witness may be examined.

HOW PERSONS NOT, BEFORE THE COURT MAY BE MADE
PARTIES TO A SUIT.

73. If it appear to the Court, at any hearing of a suit, that

all the persons who may be entitled to, or who claim some ‘

share or interest in the subject matter of the suit, and who
may be likely to be a&'ected by the result, have not been
made parties to the suit, the Court may adjourn the hearing
of the suit to a future day to be fixed by the Court, and direct
that such persons shall be made either plaintiffs or defendants
in the suit as the case may be. In such case the Court shall
issue a notice to such persons in the manner provided in this
Act for the service of a summons on a defendant.

OF ARREST BEFORE JUDGMENT.

74. If in any suit, not being a suit for land or other immoveable property, the defendant, with intent to avoid or delay
the plaintifff, or to obstruct or delay the execution°of any decree

‘ that may be passedvagainst him, is about to leave the jurisdiction of the Court, or has disposed of or removed from the jurisdiction of the Court his property or any part thereof, the
plaintiff may, either at the institution of the suit, or at any
time thereafter until final judgment, make an application to
the Court that security be taken for the appearance of the
defendant to answer any judgment that may be passed against
him in the suit. , ‘ _,.

75. If the Court, after examining the applicant and making
such further investigation as it may consider necessary, shall
be of opinion that there is probable cause for believing that
the defendant is about to leave its jurisdiction with the intent
of avoiding or delaying the plaintifff, or that he has disposed
of or removed from the jurisdiction of the Court his property
or any part thereof with the intent to obstruct or delay the
execution of any decree, it shall be lawful for the Court to

issue a warrant to the proper ohicer, enjoining him to bring
the defendant before the Court, that he may show cause why
he should not give good and suilicient bail for his appearance.

76. If the defendant fail to show such cause, the Court
shall order hin1 to give bail for his appearance at any time
when called upon while the suit is pending, and until execution or satisfaction of any decree that may be passed 
him in the suit; and the surety or sureties shall undertake, in
default of such appearance, to pay any sum of money that
may be adjudged  the defendant in the suit, with costs.
Any order made by the Court, under the provisions of this
section, shall be open to appeal by the defendant.

77. Should a defendant offer, in lieu of bail for his appearance, to deposit a sum of money or other valuable property
sufficient to answer the claim against him, with the costs of
the suit, the Court may accept such deposit.

78. In the event of the defendant neither furnishing security
nor offering a suiiicient deposit, he may be committed to
custody until the decision of the suit, or if judgment be given
against the defendant until the execution of the decree, if the
Court shall so order.

79. If it shall appear to the Court that the arrest of the
defendant was applied for on insuhicient grounds, or if the
suit of the plaintiff is dismissed or judgment is given against
him by default or otherwise, and it shall appear to the Court
that there was no probable ground for instituting the suit, the
Court may (on the application of the defendant) award against
the p1aintiE in its decree such amount, not exceeding the sum
of one thousand rupees, as it may deem a reasonable compensation to the defendant for any injury or loss which he may
have sustained by reason of such arrest. Provided that the
Court shall not award a larger amount‘ of compensation under
this section than it is competent to such Court to decree in

an action for damages An award of compensation under this
sectionshallbaranysuitfordamagesin respectofsuch
arrest. ‘

80. If in any suit the defendant is about to leave the
British territories in India, with intent to remain absent so
long that the plaintifff will or may thereby be obstructed or
delayed in the execution of any decree that may be passed
against the defendant, the p1aintiE may make an application
to the Court to the effect and in the manner aforesaid, and
the procedure thereupon shall be in all respects the same as
hereinbefore provided.

f
OF ATTACHMENT BEFORE JUDGMENT.

(J ' 81. If the defendant, with intent to obstruct or delay the
execution of any decree that may be passed against him, is
about to dispose of his property or any part thereof, or to
remove any such property from the jurisdiction of the Court
where the suit is pending, the plaintiff may apply to the
Court, either at the time of the institution of the suit or at
any time thereafter until final judgment, to call upon the
defendant to furnish sufiicient security to fulfil any decree
that may be passed against him in the suit, and, onhis failing
to give such security, to direct that ‘any property, moveable
or immoveable, belonging to the defendant, shall be attached
until the further order of the Court.

82. The application shall contain a specification .of the
property required to be attached, and the estimated value of
each article or item thereof; and the plaintiff shall, at the
time of  the application, declare that the defendant is

about to  of or remove his property with such intent
as aforesaid.

83. If the Court, after examining the applicant, and 
such further investigation as it may consider necessary, shall

be satisfied that the defendant is about to dispose of or remove
his property, with intent to obstruct or delay the execution of
the decree, it shall be lawful for the Court to issue a warrant
to the proper oEicer, commanding him to call upon the defendant, within a time to be fixed by the Court, either to
furnish security in such sum as may be specified in the order
to produce and place at the disposal of the Court when required the said property or the value of the same or such
portion thereof as may be suilicient to fulfil the .decree, or to
appear and show cause why he should not furnish security.
The Court may also in the warrant direct the attachment
until further order of the whole or any portion of the property
specified in the application.

84. If the defendant fail to show such cause or to furnish
the required security within the time fixed by the Court, the
Court may direct that the property specified in the application,
if not already attached, or such portion thereof as shall be
sufficient to fulfil the decree, shall be attached until further
order. If the defendant show such cause, or furnish the required security, and the property specified in the application
or any portion of it shall have been attached, the Court shall
order the attachment to be withdrawn.

85. The attachment shall be made according to the nature
of the property to be attached, in the manner hereinafter prescribed for the attachment of property in execution of a
decree for money. Any order for the attachment of property

under the preceding section shall be open to appeal by the
defendant.

86. In the event of any claim being preferred to the property attached before judgment, such claim shall be investigated in the manner hereinafter prescribed for the investigation of claims to property attached in execution of a decree
for money.

87. In all cases of attachment before judgment, the Court
which passed the order for the attachment shall at any time
remove the same, on the defendant furnishing security as
above required, together with security for the costs of the
attachment.

88. If it shall appear to the Court that the attachment was
applied for on insufiicient grounds, or if the suit of the plaintifff
is dismissed or judgment is given against him by default or
otherwise, and it shall appear to the Court that there was no
probable ground for instituting the suit, the Court may (on the
application of the defendant) award against the plaintifff in its
decree such amount, not exceeding the sum of one thousand
rupees, as it may deem a reasonable compensation to the defendant for the expense or injury occasioned to him by the
attachment of his property. Provided that the Court shall
not award a larger amount of compensation under this section
than it is competent to such Court to decree in an action,for
damages. An award of compensation under this section shall
bar any suit for damages in respect of such attachment. .

89. Attachments before judgment shall _not affect the
rights of persons not parties to the suit, nor bar any person
holding a decree against the defendant from applying for the
sale of the property under attachment in execution of such
decree.

90. If it shall appear to the Court by whose order the
property may have been attached before judgment, that there
is reasonable ground for supposing that the decree, in satisfaction of which the sale of the property is applied for, was
obtained by fraud or other improper means, the Court ‘may
refuse to allow the property to be sold in execution, if the
decree be a decree of that Court; or if it be a decree of
another Court, may stay the proceedings for a reasonable
time to enable the plaintifff in the pending suit to adopt proceedings to set aside the decree.

91. Whenever lands paying revenue to Government or a
tenure liable to summary sale under the provisions of
Regulation VIII. 1819 of the Bengal Code (to declare the
validity of certain tenure: and to define the relative rights of
Zemindars and Putnee Talookdars, gfc.) form the subject of a
suit,ifthepartyinpossession of such lands or tenure shall
neglect to pay the Government revenue or the rent due to
the proprietor’ of the estate, as the case may be, and a public
sale shall in consequence be ordered to take place, the party
not in possession shall, upon payment of the revenue or rent
due previously to the sale (and with or without security at
the discretion of the Court), be put in immediate possession
of the lands or tenure; and the Court in its decree may
award against the defendant the amount so paid, with interest
thereupon at such rate as to the Court may seem fit, or may
charge the amount so paid, with interest thereupon, at such
rate as the Court may order, in any adjustment of accounts
which may be directed in the final decree upon the suit.

OF INJUNCTIONS.

92. In any suit in which it shall be shown to the satisfaction
of the Court that any property which is in dispute in the
suit is in danger of being wasted, damaged, or alienated by
anypartytothe suit, it shall belawfulforthe Courttoissue
an injunction to such party, commanding him to refrain from
doing the particular act complained of, or to give such other
orders for the purpose of staying and preventing him from
wasting, damaging, or alienating the property, as’ to the
Court may seem meet. And in all cases in which it may
appear to the Court to be necessary for the preservation or
the better management or custody of any property which is
in dispute in a suit, it shall be lawful for the Court to appoint
a receiver or manager of such property, and, if need be, to
remove the person in whose possession or custody the property may be from the possession or custody thereof, and to
commit the same to the custody of such receiver or manager,
and to grant to such receiver or manager all such powers for
the management or the preservation and improvement of the
property, and the collection of the rents and profits thereof,
and the application and disposal of such rents and profits, as
to the Court may seem proper. If the property be land
paying revenue to Government, and it is considered that the
interests of those concerned will be promoted by the management of the Collector, the Court may appoint the Collector
to be receiver and manager of such land, unless the Government shall by any general order prohibit the appointment
of Collectors for such purpose, or shall in any particular case
prohibit the appointment of the Collector to be such receiver.

93. In any suit for restraining the defendant from the
committal of any breach of contract or other injury, and
whether the same be accompanied with any claim for damages
or not, it shall be lawful for the plaintiE, at any time after
the commencement of the suit, and whether before or after
judgment, to apply to the Court for an injunction to restrain
the defendant from the repetition, or the continuance of the
breach of contract or wrongful act complained of, or the committal of any breach of contract or injmy of a like kind
arising out of the same contract or relating to the same
property or right; and such injunction may be granted by
the Court on such terms as to the duration of the injunction,
keeping an account, giving security, or otherwise, as to such
Court shall seem reasonable and just, and in case of disobedience such injunction may be enforced by imprisonment in
the same manner as a decree for specific performance: provided always that any order for an injunction may be discharged or varied or set aside by the Court, on application
made thereto by any party dissatisfied with such order.

94. Any order made under either of the last two preceding
sections shall be open to appeal by the defendant.

95. The Court may in every case before granting an injunction direct such reasonable notice of the application for
the same to be given to the opposite party as it shall see fit.

96. If it shall appear to the Court that the injunction was
applied for on insufficient grounds, or if the claim of the
plaintifff is dismissed or judgment is given  him by
default or otherwise, and it shall appear to the Court that
there was no probable ground for instituting the suit, the
Court may (on the application of the defendant) award
against the plaintifff in its decree such sum, not exceeding
one thousand rupees, as it may deem a reasonable compensation to the defendant for the expense or injury occasioned
to him by the issue of the injunction. Provided that the
Court shall not award a larger amount of compensation under
this section than it is competent to such Court to decree in
an action for damages. An award of compensation under
this section shall bar any suit for damages in respect of the
issue of the injunction.

OF THE WITIIDRAWAL AND ADJUSTMENT OF SUITS.

97. If the plaintifff at any time before final judgment satisfy
the Court that there are suilicient grounds for permitting him
to withdraw from the suit with liberty to bring a fresh suit
for the same matter, it shall be competent to the Court to
grant such permission on such terms as to costs or otherwise
as it may deem proper. In any such fresh suit the p1ainti&'
shall be bound by the rules for the limitation of actions in the
same manner as if the first suit had not been brought. If
the plaintifff withdraw from the suit without such permission,
he shall be precluded from bringing a fresh suit for the same
matter.

98. If a suit shall be adjusted by mutual agreement or
compromise, or if the defendant satisfy the plaintifff in respect
to the matter of the suit, such agreement, compromise, or
satisfaction shall be recorded, and the suit shall be  of
in accordance therewith. On the application of the plaintifff
reciting the substance of such agreement, compromise, or
satisfaction, the Court, if satisfied that such agreement, compromise, or satisfaction has been actually entered into or
made, shall grant a certificate to the plaintifff authorizing him
to receive back from the Collector the full amount of stamp
duty paid on the plaint if the application shall have been presented before the settlement of issues, or half the amount if
presented at any time after the settlement of issues and before
any witness has been examined. Provided however that no
such certificate shall be granted if the adjustment between
the parties be such as to require a decree to pass on which
process of execution can be taken out.

OF THE DEATH, MARRIAGE, AND BANKRUPTCY, OR INSOLVENCY
OF PARTIES.

99. The death of a plaintifff or defendant shall not cause
the suit to abate if the cause of action survive.

100. If there be two or more plaintifffs or defendants and
one of. them die, and if the cause of action survive to the
surviving plaintifff or plaintifffs alone, or against the surviving
defendant or defendants alone, the suit shall proceed at the
instance of the surviving plaintifff or plaintifffs, and against
the surviving defendant or defendants.

101. If there be two or more p1ainti&‘s, and one of them
die, and if the cause of action shall not survive to the surviving plaintiE or plaintifffs alone but shall survive to them
and the legal representative of the deceased plaintifff jointly,
the Court may, on the application of the legal representative
of the deceased plaintifff, enter the name of such representative in the Register of the suit in the place of such deceased
plaintifff, and the suit shall proceed at the instance of the
surviving plaintifff or plaintifffs and such legal representative
of the deceased plaintidl If no application shall be made to
the Court by any person claiming to be the legal representative of the deceased plaintifff, the suit shall proceed at
the instance of the surviving plaintifff or plaintiffs; and the
legal representative of the deceased plaintifff shall be interested in and shall be bound by the judgment given in the
suit in the same manner as if the suit had procwded at his
instance conjointly with the surviving plaintifff or plaintifffs.

102. In case of the death of a sole plaintifff or sole
surviving plaintiff, the Court may, on the application of the
legal representative of such plaintim enter the name of such
representative in the place of such plaintifff in the Register
of the suit, and the suit shall thereupon proceed; if no such
application shall be made to the Court within what it may
consider a reasonable time by any person claiming to be the
legal representative of the deceased sole plaintifff or sole
surviving plaintifff, it shall be competent for the Court to pass
an order that the suit shall abate, and to award to the defendant the reasonable cost which he may have incurred in
defending the suit, to be recovered from the estate of the
deceased sole plaintifff or surviving plaintiE; or the Court
may, if it think proper, on the application of the defendant,
and upon such terms as to costs as may seem fit, pass such
other order for bringing in the legal representative of the
deceased sole plaintifff or surviving plaintifff, and for proceeding with the suit in order to a final determination of the
matters in dispute, as may appear just and proper in the
circumstances of the case.

103. If any dispute arise as to who is the legal representative of a deceased plaintifff, it shall be competent to the Court
either to stay the suit until the fact has been duly determined in another suit, or to decide at or before the hearing
of the suit who shall be admitted to be such legal representative for the purpose of prosecuting the suit.

104. If there be two or more defendants, and one of them
die, and the cause of action shall not survive against the
surviving defendant or defendants alone, and also in case of
the death of a sole defendant or sole surviving defendant,
where the action survives, the plaintifff may make an application to the Court, specifying the name, description, and place
of abode of any person whom the plaintifff alleges to be the
legal representative of such defendant, and whom he desires
to be made the defendant in his stead; and the Court shall
thereupon enter the name of such representative in the
Register of the suit in the place of such defendant, and shall
issue a summons to him to appear on a day to be therein
mentioned to defend the suit; and the case shall thereupon
proceed in the same manner as if such representative had

originally been made a defendant and had been a party to
the former proceedings in the suit.

105. The marriage of a woman, plaintifff or defendant,
shall not cause the suit to abate, but the suit may, notwithstanding, be proceeded with to judgment, and the decree
thereupon may be executed upon the wife alone; and if the
case is one in which the husband is by law liable for the
debts of his wife, the decree may, with the permission of the
Court, be executed against the husband also; and in case of
judgment for the wife, execution of the decree may, with the
permission of the Court, be issued upon the application of
the husband, where the husband is by law entitled to the
money or thing which may be the subject of the decree.

106. The bankruptcy or insolvency of the plaintifff in any

suit which the assignee might maintain for the benefit of the
creditors shall not be a valid objection to the continuance of

such suit, unless the assignee shall decline to continue the

suit and to give security for the costs thereof within such
reasonable time as the Court may order; if the assignee
neglect or refuse to continue the suit and to give such
security within the time limited by the order, the defendant
may, within eight days after such neglect or refusal, plead
the bankruptcy or insolvency of the plaintifff as a reason for
abating the suit.

OF NOTICES T0 PRODUCE, AND HOW THEY ARE TO BE SERVED.

107. Whenever any of the parties to a suit is desirous that
any document, writing, or other thing, which he believes to
be in the possession or power of another of the parties thereto, should be produced at any hearing of the suit, and the
production of such document, writing or other thing has not
previously been required, under the provisions of Sections 40
and 43, he shall at the earliest opportunity deliver to the
Court two notices in writing to the party in whose possession
or power he believes the document, writing, or other thing
to be, calling upon him to produce the same; and one of
such notices shall be filed in Court, and the other shall be
delivered by the Court to the N azir or other proper oliicer,
to be served upon such party.

108. In all cases in which a party to a suit has not appointed a pleader to act for him, all notices and other

judicial processes shall be served upon such party in the

manner hereinbefore provided for the service of a summons
upon a defendant to appear and answer.

OF THE APPEARANCE OF THE PARTIES, AND CONSEQUENCES
OF NON-APPEARANCE.

109. On the day fixed in the summons for the defendant
to appear and answer, the parties shall be in attendance at
the Court-house in person or by a pleader, and the suit shall
then be heard, unless the hearing be adjourned to a future
day which shall be fixed by the Court.

110. If, on the day fixed for the defendant to appear and
answer, or any other day subsequent thereto to which the
hearing of the suit may be adjourned, neither party shall
appear either in person or by a pleader when duly called
upon by the Court, the suit shall be dismissed. Whenever
a suit is dismissed under the provisions of this section, the
plaintifff shall be at liberty to bring a fresh suit, unless precluded by the rules for the limitation of actions; or if he
shall within the period of thirty days satisfy the Court that
there was a sufficient excuse for his non-appearance, the

Court may issue a fresh summons upon the plaint already
filed.

111. If the plaintifff shall appear in person or by a pleader,
and the defendant shall not appear in person or by a pleader,
and it shall be proved to the satisfaction of the Court that
the summons was duly served, the Court shall proceed to
hear the suit ea: parte. If the defendant appear on any subsequent day to which the hearing of the suit is adjourned,
and shall assign good and sufficient cause for his previous
non-appearance, he may, upon such terms as the Court may
direct as to payment of costs or otherwise, be heard in answer
to the suit in like manner as if he had appeared on the day
fixed for his appearance.

112. If the plaintifff shall appear in person or by a pleader,
and the defendant shall not appear in person or by a pleader,
and it shall not be proved to the satisfaction of the Court
that the summons was duly served in any of the modes of
service hereinbefore provided, the Court may direct a second
summons to the defendant to be issued in any of the said
modes.

113. If the plaintifff shall appear in person or by a pleader,
and the defendant shall not appear in person or by a pleader,
and.it shall be proved to the satisfaction of the Court that the

summons was served on the defendant, but not in sufficient

time to enable the defendant to appear and answer on the
day fixed in the summons, the Court shall postpone the
hearing of the suit to a future day to be fixed by the Court,

and may direct notice of such day to be given to the
defendant.

114. If the defendant shall appear in person or by a
pleader, and the plaintifff shall not appear in person or by a
pleader, the Court shall pass judgment against the plaintifff
by default, unless the defendant admit the claim, in which
case the Court shall pass judgment against the defendant
upon such admission. When judgment is passed  a
plaintifff by default, he shall be precluded from bringing a
fresh suit in respect of the same cause of action.

115. When there are two or more plaintills, any one or
more of them may be authorized to appear, plead, and act
for the other or others of them; and in like manner, when
there are two or more defendants, any one or more of them
may be authorized to appear, plead, and act for the other or
others of them; provided that the authority shall in all cases
be in writing, and shall be filed in the Court; when so filed,
it shall be as e&'ectual to all intents and purposes as if the

person so authorized to appear, plead, and act, were a pleader
of the Court.

116. If there are two or more plaintifffs, and one or more
of them shall appear in person or by a pleader or by a coplaintiff duly authorized, and the other or others of them
shall not appear in person or by a pleader or by a co-plaintin‘ duly authorized, it shall be competent to the Court to
proceed with the suit at the instance of the plaintifff or plaintifffs who shall have appeared, in the same way as if all the
plaintifffs had appeared, and to pass such order as may be
just and proper in the circumstances of the case; and if
there are two or more defendants, and one or more of them

shall appear in person or by a pleader or by a co-defendant '

duly authorized, and the other or others of them shall not
appear in person or by a pleader or by a co-defendant duly
authorized, the Court shall proceed with the suit to judgment, and shall at the time of  judgment give such
order with respect to the defendant or defendants who shall
not have appeared as shall be just and proper in the circumstances of the case.

117. If any plaintifff or defendant who shall have been
ordered or summoned to appear personally under the provisions of Section 42, shall not appear in person, or show
sufficient cause to the satisfaction of the Court for failing so
to appear, such plaintifff or defendant shall be subject to all
the provisions of the foregoing sections applicable to plaintifffs
and defendants respectively, who do not appear either in
person or by pleader. f '

118. In support of the cause shown by a plaintifff or
defendant for failure to appear in person, the Court shall
receive any declaration in writing on unstamped paper, if
signed by such plaintiff or defendant and verified in the
manner hereinbefore provided for the verification of plaints.

119. No appeal shall lie from a judgment passed ex: parte
against a defendant who has not appeared, or from a judgment against a plaintifff by default for non-appearance. But
in all cases in which judgment maybe passed exparte against
a defendant, he may apply, within a reasonable time, not
exceeding thirty days after any process for enforcing the
judgment has been executed, to the Court by which the judgment was passed, for an order to set it aside; and if it shall
be proved to the satisfaction of the Court that the summons
was not duly served, or that the defendant was prevented by
any sufficient cause from appearing when the suit was called
on for hearing, the Court shall pass an order to set aside the
judgment, and shall appoint a day for proceeding with the

suit. In all cases of judgment against a plaintiff by default,
he may apply, within thirty days from the date of the judgment, for an order to set it aside; and if it shall be proved
to the satisfaction of the Court that the plaintifff was prevented by any sufiicient cause from appearing when the suit
was called on for hearing, the Court shall pass an order to
set aside the judgment by default, and shall appoint a day
for proceeding with the suit. But no judgment shall be set
aside on any such application as aforesaid, unless notice
thereof have been served on the opposite party. In all cases
in which the Court shall pass an order under this section for
setting aside a judgment, the order shall be final ; but in all
appealable cases in which the Court shall reject the application, an appeal shall lie from the order of rejection to the
tribunal to which the final decision in the suit would be
appealable, provided that the appeal be preferred within the
time allowed for an appeal from such final decision, and be
written upon stamp paper of the value prescribed for petitions
to the Court where a stamp is required for petitions.

OF WRITTEN STATEMENTS.

120. The parties or their pleaders may tender at the first
hearing of the suit written statements of their respective
cases, and the Court shall receive the same and put them on
the record. Such statements shall be written on the stamp
paper prescribed for petitions to the Court where a stamp is
required for petitions.

121. If in a suit for debt the defendant desire to set»o&'
against the claim of the plaintifff the amount of any debt due
to him from the plaintifff, he shall tender a written statement
containing the particulars of his demand, and the Court shall
thereupon inquire into the same. Provided that, if the sum
claimed by the defendant exceed the amount cognisable by
the Court, the defendant shall not be allowed to set-oh‘ the
same unless he abandon the excess. —

122. No written statement shall be received after the first
hearing of the suit, unless called for by the Court. But it
shall be competent to the Court, at any time before iinal
judgment, to call for a written statement, or an additional
written statement, from any of the parties. When such statements are called for by the Court, they shall be received on I

plain paper.

123. Written statements shall be as brief as the nature of
the case will admit, and ‘shall not be argumentative, nor by
way of answer one to the other; but each statement shall be
con£ned, as much as possible, to a simple narrative of the
facts which the party by whom or on whose behalf the
written statement is made believes to be material to the case,
and which he believes he will be able to prove if called upon
by the Court. Written statements shall be subscribed and
verified in the manner hereinbefore provided for subscribing
and verifying plaints, and no written statement shall be
received unless it be so subscribed and verified.

124. If it shall appear to the Court that any written statement presented by or on behalf of a party, whether the same
have been spontaneously tendered or have been called for by

the Court, is argumentative or unnecessarily prolix, or that
it contains matter irrelevant to the suit, the Court may reject
the same, and return it to the party with the order of rejection endorsed thereon; and it shall not be competent to ‘a
party whose written statement has been rejected for any of
these causes to present another written statement, unless it
shall be expressly called for or allowed by the Court.

|

OF THE EXAMINATION OF THE PARTIES.

125. At the first hearing of the suit, and if necessary at
any subsequent hearing, any party who appears in person or
is present in Court, or the pleader of any party who appears
by a pleader, or if the pleader be accompanied by another

person able to answer all material questions relating to the
suit, then such other person may be examined orally by the
Court. Such examination shall (unless the pleader be the
person examined) be upon oath or allirmation or otherwise,
according to the provisions of the law for the time being in
force in relation to the examination of witnesses. The substance of the examination shall be reduced to writing and
form part of the record.

126. If any party who appears in person or is present in
Court shall, without lawful excuse, refuse to answer any material question relating to the suit which the Court may think
proper to put to such party, the Court may pass judgment
against him, or make such other order in relation to the suit
as it may deem proper in the circumstances of the case.

127. If the pleader of any party who shall appear by a
pleader shall refuse or be unable to answer any material
question relating to the suit which the Court is of opinion
that the party whom he represents ought to answer, and is
likely to be able to answer, if interrogated in person, the
Court may postpone the hearing of the suit to a future day,
and direct that such party shall attend in person on such
day; and if the party so directed to attend shall, without
lawful excuse, fail to appear in person on the day to be so
appointed, the Court may pass judgment against him, or
make such other order in relation to the suit as it may deem
proper in the circumstances of the case.

OF THE PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS.

128. The parties or their pleaders shall bring ‘with them,
and have in readiness at the first hearing of the suit to be
produced when called upon by the Court, all their documentary evidence of every description’ which may not already
have been filed in Court, and all documents, writings, or other

things which may have been speciiied in any notice which may
have been served on them respectively within a reasonable
time before the hearing of the suit; and no documentary evidence of any kind, which the parties or any of them may desire
to produce, shall be received by the Court at any subsequent
stage of the proceedings, unless good cause be shown to its
satisfaction for the non-production thereof at the first
hearing.

129. All exhibits produced by the parties shall be received
and inspected by the Court; but it shall be competent to the
Court, after inspection, to reject any exhibit which it may
consider irrelevant or otherwise inadmissible, recording the
grounds of such rejection.

130. If the exhibit be a deed, instrument, or writing,
chargeable with stamp duty under any Regulation or Act for
the time being in force, and it shall appear to the Court that
the deed, instrument, or writing, although written on stamp
paper, does not bear a suiiicient stamp, the Court shall nevertheless receive the same in evidence, saving all just exceptions on other grounds, if the party producing it or requiring
its production shall pay into Court the deficiency of the
stamp duty and a penalty equal to ten times the amount of
the deficiency. Provided that, if it shall appear to the Court
that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the deed,
instrument, or writing was not properly stamped with the
intention of evading the stamp laws, the Court may reject the
same. '

I

131. An entry of the fact of such payment and of the
amount thereof shall be made in a book to be kept in the
Court, and shall also be endorsed on the back of such deed,
instrument, or writing under the signature of the Judge of
the Court. The Court shall, at the end of every month,
make a return to the Collector of Revenue of the District of
the monies (if any) which it has so received by way of duty

or penalty, distinguishing between such monies, and stating
the number and title of the suit, and the name of the party
from whom such monies were received, and the date (if any)
and description of the document, for the purpose of identifying the same; and the Court shall pay over the said monies
to the Collector of Revenue, or to such person as he may
appoint to receive the same; and the Collector of Revenue
or other proper authority shall, upon production of the deed,
instrument, or writing, with the endorsement hereinbefore
mentioned, cause such additional stamp as may be necessary
to be affixed to such deed, instrument, or Writing in respect of
the sums so paid as aforesaid.

132. When an exhibit is received by the Court and admitted in evidence, it shall be endorsed with the number and
title of the suit, the name of the party producing it, and the
date on which it  produced, and shall be filed as part of
the record. Provided that, if the exhibit be an entry in any
shop book or other book, the party on whose behalf such
book is produced shall furnish a copy of the entry, which
copy shall be endorsed as aforesaid, and shall be filed as part
of the record, and the book shall be returned to the party
producing it.

133. No stamp ‘duty shall be leviable in respect of the
production or filing of any exhibit, anything contained in
any Regulation or Act notwithstanding.

134. When an exhibit is rejected by the Court, it shall be
endorsed in the manner specified in Section 132, with the

addition of the word “ rejected,” and the endorsement shall
be subscribed by the Judge. The exhibit shall then be
returned to the party who produced it, unless the Court shall
think proper, for special reasons (as on suspicion of forgery),
to detain it.

135. When the time for preferring an appeal from the
decision passed in the suit has elapsed, or if an appeal has

been preferred from such decision, then after the appeal has
been finally disposed of, any person, whether a party to the
suit or not, who may be desirous of receiving back any
exhibit produced by him in the suit, shall be entitled, on
application to the Court in which such exhibit may be, to
receive back the same unless the further use of such exhibit
has been superseded by the terms of the decree, or the Court
has direxzted it to be detained for purposes of public justice.

136. Any exhibit may be returned before the time mentioned in the last preceding section, if the Court in which the
document may be shall think proper, for special reasons, to
order its return. But in every case a copy, properly certified, and made at the expense of the applicant, shall be substituted for the original in the record of the suit.

137. Whenever an exhibit once received by a Court of
Justice and admitted in evidence is returned, a receipt shall

be given by the party receiving it in a receipt-book kept for «

the purpose.

138. Any Civil Court may of its own accord, or upon the
application of any of the parties to a suit, send for, either
from its own record or from any other public o$ce or court,
the record of any other suit or case, or any other oiiicial
papers (not being documents relating to affairs of State, the
production of which would be contrary to good policy), and
inspect the same, when the inspection of such record or
papers shall appear likely to elucidate the facts of the suit
before the Court, and to promote the ends of justice.

OF THE SETTLEMENT OF ISSUES.

139. At the first hearing of the suit the Court shall
inquire and ascertain upon what questions of law or fact the
parties are at issue, and shall thereupon proceed to frame
and record the issues of law and fact_ on which the right

decision of the case may depend. The Court may frame the
issues from the allegations of fact which it collects from the
oral examination of the parties or their pleadem, notwithstanding any ditference between such allegations of fact and
the allegations of fact contained in the written statements,
if any, tendered by the parties or their pleaders.

140. If the Court shall be of opinion that the issues cannot
be correctly framed without the examination of some person
other than the persons already before the Court or without
the reading of some document not produced by any of such
persons, it may adjourn the framing of the issues to a future
day, to be fixed by the Court, and may compel the attendance
of such person, or the production of the document by the
person in whose hands it may be, by summons or other
suitable process.

141. At any time before the decision of the case, the Court
may amend the issues or frame additional issues on such

terms as to it shall seem fit, and all such amendments as

may be necessary for the purpose of determining the real
question or controversy between the parties shall be so made.

OF ISSUES BY AGREEMENT OF PARTIES.

142. When the parties to a suit are agreed as to the question or questions of fact or of law to be decided between
them, they may state the same in the form of an issue, and
enter into an agreement in writing, which shall not be subject to any stamp duty, that upon the finding of the Court
in the adirmative or the negative of such issue, a sum of
money specified in the agreement, or to be ascertained by the
Court upon a question inserted in the issue for that purpose,
shall be paid by one of the parties to the other_of them, or
that upon such  some property specified in the agreement, and in dispute in the suit, shall be delivered by one
of the parties to the other of them, or that upon such 

one or more of the parties shall do or perform some particular
legal act, or shall refrain from doing or performing some
particular act, specified in the agreement, and having reference
to the matter in dispute.

143. If the Court shall be satisfied, after an examination
of the parties or their pleaders, and taking such evidence as
it may deem proper, that the agreement was duly executed
by the parties, and that the parties have a bond jide interest
in the decision of such question, and that the same is fit to
be tried and decided, it may proceed to record and try the
same, and deliver its finding or opinion thereon in the same
manner -as if the issue had been framed by the Court, and
may, upon the finding or decision on such issue, give judgment for the sum so agreed on or so ascertained as aforesaid,
or otherwise, according to the terms of the agreement; and
upon the judgment which shall be so given, decree shall
follow, and may be executed in the same way as if the judgment had been pronounced in a contested suit.

WHEN THE SUIT MAY BE DISPOSED OF AT THE FIRST
HEARING.

144. If at the first hearing of a suit_ it shall appear that
the parties are not at issue on any question of law or fact,
the Court may at once give judgment.

145. When the parties are at issue on some question of
law. or fact, and issues have been framed by the Court as
hereinbefore provided, if the Court shall be satisfied that no
further argument or evidence than such as the parties or
their pleaders can at once supply is required upon any such
of the issues of law or fact as may be suiiicient for the decision of the suit, the Court, after hearing such argument and
evidence, may proceed to determine such issue or issues, and
if the finding thereon is sufficient for the decision, may pronounce judgment accordingly, whether the summons shall

have been issued for the settlement of issues only or for the
final  of the suit; otherwise the Court shall postpone
the further hearing of the suit, and shall fix a day for the production of such further evidence or for such further argument
as the case may require. Provided that if the summons
shall have been issued for the final  of the suit and
either party shall fail without sufficient cause to produce the
evidence on which he relies, the Court may at once give
judgment.
OF ADJOURNMENTS.

146. The Court may, if sutiicient cause be shown, at any
stage of the suit, grant time to the parties, or to either of
them, and may from time to time adjourn the hearing of the
suit; and in all such cases the Court shall fix a day for the
further hearing of the suit. Provided that in all such cases
the party applying for time shall pay the costs occasioned by
such adjournment, unless the Court shall otherwise direxzt.

147. If, on any day to which the hearing of the suit may
be adjourned, the parties or either of them shall not appear
in person or by pleader, the Court may proceed to dispose

of the suit in the manner specified in Section 110, Section 111,
or Section 114, as the case may be, or may make such other

order as may appear to be just and proper in the circumstances of the case. .

148. If either party to a suit to whom time may have
been granted shall fail to produce his proofs, or to cause the
attendance of his witnesses, or to perform any other act for

which time may have been allowed, the Court shall proceed

to a decision of the suit on the record, notwithstanding such
default.

0]!‘ SUMMONING WITNESSES.

149. The parties or their pleaders may, at any time after
the issue of the summons to the defendant, if the summons

be for the final disposal of the suit, or alter the issues have
been recorded if the summons to the defendant be for the
settlement of issues only, obtain, on application to the Court,
summonses to witnesses or other persons to attend either to
give evidence or to produce documents, and in any such

summons the names of any number of persons may be
inserted.

150. N 0 stamp duty shall be leviable in respect of any
application for the summons of a witness or other person to
attend either to give evidence or to produce a document, anything contained in any Regulation or Act notwithstanding.

151. The person applying for a summons shall pay into
Court such a sum of money as shall appear to the Court to
be reasonable, to defray the travelling and other expenses
of each witness, or other person mentioned in the summons,
in passing to and from the Court in which he may be required
to attend, and for one day’s attendance. If the Court be a
subordinate Court, regard shall be had, in fixing the scale
of such expenses, to the rules  any) established by the
Court to which such Court shall be immediately subordinate.
The sum so paid into Court shall be tendered to the witness
or other person at the time of serving the summons, if it .can
be served personally. If it shall appear to the Court that
the sum paid into Court on account of the travelling and
other expenses of the witness or other person in passing to
and from the Court is not sufficient to cover such expenses,
the Court may direct such further sum to be paid to the
witness or other person as may appear to be necessary on that
account, and, in case of default in payment, may order such
sum to be levied by attachment and sale of the goods of
the person ordered to pay the same, or may discharge the
witness without requiring him to give evidence. If it shall

be necessary to detain the witness or other person summoned
for a longer period than one day, the Court may from time

to time order the party at whose instance he was summoned
to pay into Court such sum as may be suiiicient to defray the
expenses of his detention for such further period, and, in
default of such’ deposit being made, may order the witnes
to be discharged without requiring him to give evidence.

152. Every summons for the attendance of a witnem or
other person shall specify the time and place at which he is
required to attend, and also whether his attendance is required
for the purpose of giving evidence or to produce a document, or for both purposes; and any particular document
which the witness or other person may be called on to
produce, shall be described in the summons with convenient
certainty.

153. Any person, whether a party to a suit or not, may
be_summoned to produce a document, without being summoned
to give evidence; and any person, summoned merely to produce a document, shall be deemed to have complied with the
summons, if he cause such document to be produced instead

of attending personally to produce the same.

SERVICE OF SUMMONS ON A WITNESS.

154. Every summons to a witness or other person shall be
served by exhibiting the original, and delivering or tendering
a copy; and the service shall in all cases be made a sufficient
time before the time specified in the summons for the attendance of the witness or other person, to allow him a reasonable
.time for preparation, and for travelling to the place at which
his attendance is required.

155. Whenever it may be practicable, the service of the
summons shall be upon the person thereby required to
attend; but when he cannot be found, the service may be
made on any adult male member of his family residing with
him.

156. When the person required to attend cannot be found,
and there is no adult male member of his family on whom the
summons can be served, the serving officer shall return the
summons to the Court from whence it issued, with an endorsement thereon that he has been unable to serve it.

157. The serving officer shall, in all cases in which the
summons has been served, endorse on the original summons
the time when, and the manner in which it was served.

158. If the person required to attend be resident within the
jurisdiction of any other Court than that in which the suit is
pending, the summons shall be transmitted by the Court in
which the suit is pending, to any Court having urisdiction at
the place where the witness resides by which it can be most
conveniently served; and the Court to which the summons is
sent shall, upon receipt thereof, deliver the same to the Nazir
or other proper officer of such Court, to be served in the
manner above directed; and upon the return of the summons
by the serving officer, it shall be transmitted to the Court from
whence it originally issued.

_ 159. Ifthe summons for the attendance of any person either
to give evidence or to produce a document, cannot be served in
either of the ways hereinbefore specified, the Court, on being
certified thereof by the return of the serving officer, and upon
proof that the evidence of such witness or the production of
the document is material, and that the witness or other person
absconds or keeps out of the way for the purpose of avoiding
the service of the summons, may cause a proclamation requiring the _attendance of such person to give evidence, or
produce the document, at a time and place to be named
therein, to be alhxed in some conspicuous place upon his
house or place of abode; and if such person shall not attend
at the time and place named in such proclamation, the Court
may, at the instance of the party on whose application the
summons was issued, make an order for the attachment of the

moveable and immoveable property of such person, to such
amount as the Court shall deem reasonable, not being in
excess of the amount of the costs of attachment and of any
tine to which the person may be liable under the provisions of
the following section.

160. If, on the attachment of the property, such witness or
other person shall appear and satisfy the Court that he did
not abscond or keep out of the way to avoid service of the
summons, and that he had not notice of the proclamation in
time to attend at the time and place named therein, the
Court shall direct that the property be released from attachment, and shall make such order in regard to the costs of
the attachment as it shall deem {it If such witness or
other person shall not appear, or appearing shall fail to
satisfy the Court that he did not abscond or keep out of the
way to avoid service of the summons, and that he had not
such a notice of the proclamation as aforesaid, it shall be
lawful for the Court to order the property attached, or any
part thereof, to be sold for the purpose of satisfying all costs
incurred in consequence of such attachment, together with the
amount of any fine which the Court may impose upon such
witness or other person under the provisions of any law for
the time being in force for the punishment of a witness who
may abscond or keep out of the way in order to avoid the
service of the summons. I If the witness or other person shall
pay into Court the costs and fine as aforesaid, the Court shall
order the property to be released from attachment.

0]!‘ THE EXAMINATION OF PARTIES AS WITNESSES.

161. When a party to a suit appears in person at any
hearing of the suit, he may be examined as a witness, either
in his own behalf or on behalf of any other party to the suit,
in the same way as if he were not a party thereto.

162. If any party to a suit shall require to enforce the

attendance of any other party thereto as a witness, he shall,
by. himself or his pleader, make a special application to the
Court for an order requiring the attendance of the party, and
shall show to the satisfaction of the Court sufficient grounds
in support of such application, otherwise a summons shall not

be issued.

163. The Court, if it think fit, may, before making such

order, cause notice to be given to the party or his pleader,
fixing a day for such party to show cause why he should not
attend and give evidence; and may also, from time to time,
if necessary, for good and suiiicient reason, enlarge the time
for such purpose. '

164. In support of the cause shown, the Court shall receive
any declaration in writing of the party, on unstamped paper,
if signed by him and verified in the manner hereinbefore provided for the verification of plaints, and delivered into the
Court by himself or his pleader.

165. If no suiiicient cause be shown on the day fixed, or
upon any subsequent day to which the Court shall enlarge
the time for that purpose, the Court shall issue its order requiring the party to attend and give evidence.

166. If the Court shall think it necessary for the ends of
justice to examine any party to the suit or to inspect any
document in his possession or power, the Court may of its own
accord in any stage of the suit cause such party to be summoned to attend as a witness to give evidence or to produce
such document if in his possession or power on a day to be
appointed in the summons, and may examine such party as a
witness in open Court, or may cause such party to be examined in such other manner as the Court may direct.

ATTENDANCE or wITNEssEs, AND CONSEQUENCE or NoNATTENDANCE.

167. Any person who shall be summoned to appear and
give evidence in a suit shall be bound to attend at the time
and place named in the summons for that purpose.

168. If any person, on whom any summons to give evidence
or produce a document shall have been served in either of the
ways speciiied in Section 155, shall, without lawful excuse,
fail to comply with the summons, the Court may order such

person to be apprehended and brought before the Court. If
such person abscond or keep out of the way, so that he cannot
be apprehended or brought before the Court, his property
shall be liable to attachment and sale in the manner and subject to the rules provided in Sections 159 and 160 with respect
to a witness or other person on whom the service of a summons cannot be effected.

169. If any witness, attending or being present in Court,
shall, without lawful excuse, refuse to give evidence, or to produce any document in his custody or possession named in
such summons as aforesaid, upon being required by the Court
so to do, the Court may commit such witness to close custody
for such reasonable time as it may deem proper, unless he
shall, in the meantime, consent to give his evidence, or to
produce the document. If after the expiration of such time
the witness shall persist in his refusal, the Court may proceed
to deal with him according to the provisions of any law for

the time being in force for the punishment of persons refusing
to give evidence.

170. If any person, being a party to the suit, who shall be
ordered to attend to give evidence or produce a document,
shall, without lawful excuse, fail to comply with such order,

or, attending or being present in Court, shall, without lawful
excuse, refuse to give evidence, or to produce any document

in his custody or possession named in such summons as aforesaid, upon being required by the Court so to do, the Court
may either pass judgment against the party so failing or refusing, or make such other order in relation to the suit as the
Court may deem proper in the circumstances of the case.‘

171. Any person present in Court, whether a party to the
suit or not, may be called upon by the Court to give evidence
and to produce any document then and there in his actual
possession or in his power, in the same manner and subject to
the same rules as if he had been summoned to attend and
give evidence or to produce such document, and shall be
liable to be dealt with by the Court as a party or witness, as
the case may be, would, under any of the preceding provisions, be liable to be dealt with for any refusal to obey the
order of the Court.

WHEN AND HOW WITNESSES ARE TO BE  D.

172. On the day appointed for the hearing of the suit, or
on some other day to which the hearing may be adjourned,
the evidence of the witnesses in attendance shall be taken
orally in open Court, in the presence and hearing, and under
the personal direction and superintendence of the Judge. In
cases in which an appeal lies to a higher tribunal, the evidence of each witness given upon such examination shall be
taken down in writing, in the language in ordinary use in proceedings before the Court, by, or in the presence and under the
personal direction and superintendence of the Judge, not
ordinarily in the form of question and answer but in that of a
narrative, and, when completed, shall be read over in the
presence of the Judge and of the witness, and also in the
presence of the parties to the suit or their pleaders, or such of
them as are in attendance, and shall, if necessary, be corrected,
and shall be signed by the Judge. If the evidence be taken
down in a different language from that in which it has been

given, and the witness does not understand the language in
which it is taken down, the witness may require his deposition
as taken down in writing to be interpreted to him in the
language in which it was given. Where all the parties to
the suit present, and the pleaders of such as are absent, consent to have such evidence as is given in English taken down
in English, the Judge may so take it down in his own hand.
It shall be in the discretion of the Court to take down, or
cause to be taken down, any particular question and answer,
if there shall appear any special reason for so doing, or any
party or his pleader shall require it. If any question put to
a witness be objected to by either of the parties or their
pleaders, and the Court shall allow the same to be put, the
question and answer shall be taken down, and the objection,
and the name of the party making it, shall be noticed in
taking down the depositions, together with the decision of the
Court upon the objection. The Court shall record such remarks as it may think material respecting the demeanour of
the witness while under examination. In cases in which the
evidence is not taken down in writing by the Judge himself,
he shall be bound, as the examination of each witness proceeds, to make a memorandum of the substance of what such
witness deposes, and such memorandum shall be written and
signed by the Judge with his own hand, and shall accompany
the record. In cases in which an appeal does not lie to a
higher tribunal, it shall not be necessary to take down the
depositions of the witnesses in writing at length; but the
Judge, as the examination of each witness proceeds, shall
make a memorandum of the substance of what such witness
deposes, and such memorandum shall be written and signed by
the Judge with his own hand, and shall form part of the
record. If the Judge shall be prevented from  a
memorandum as above required, he shall record the reason of
his inability to do so, and in cases not appealable shall cause

such memorandum to be made in writing from his dictation
in open Court, and shall  the same, and such memorandum
shall form part of the record.

17 3. If a witness be about to leave the jurisdiction of the
Court, or other good and sufficient cause can be shown to the
satisfaction of the Court why his examination should be taken
immediately, it shall be competent to the Court, upon the
application of either party or of the witness, at any time after
the institution of the suit, to take the examination of such
witness forthwith, or on any day that may be fixed for that
purpose, of which due notice shall be given to the parties if
the day be fixed in their absence. The witness shall be
examined, and his deposition shall be taken down in writing,
in the manner hereinbefore prescribed; and the deposition
so taken down may be read in evidence at any hearing of the
suit.

174. All witnesses shall be examined upon oath or ailirmation, or otherwise according to the provisions of the law for
the time being in force in relation to the examination of
witnesses.

OF COMMISSIONS TO EXAMINE ABSENT WITNESSES AND
MAKE LOCAL ENQUIRIES.

175. When the evidence of a witness is required who is
resident at some place distant more than a hundred miles
from the place where the Court is held, or who is unable
from sickness or infirmity to attend before the Court to be
personally examined, or is a person exempted by reason of
rank or sex from personal appearance in Court; the Court
may, of its own motion, or on the application of any of the
parties to the suit, or on the representation of the witness,
order a Commission to issue for the examination of such
witness on interrogatories or otherwise; and may, by the
same or any subsequent order, give all such directions for

taking such examinations as may appear reasonable and just.
If the witness be resident within the jurisdiction of the Court
issuing the Commission, the Commission may be issued to
any oHicer of the Court, or to any subordinate Court, or to
any other person or persons whom the Court issuing the
Commission may think proper to appoint. If the witness be
resident at some place which is beyond the jurisdiction ‘of the
Court issuing the Commission, and not within the local jurisdiction of Her Majesty’s Supreme Court, but within the
jurisdiction of the Sudder Court, the Commission shall ordinarily be issued to the Court within whose jurisdiction the
witness may reside, and which can most conveniently execute
the same; but, under special circumstances, the Commission
may be issued to any other person or persons whom the Court
issuing the Commission may think proper to appoint.

176. If the witness be resident within the local jurisdiction
of Her Majesty's Supreme Court, the Commission shall ordinarily be issued to the Court of Small Causes held under
A.ctIX.of1850 (fm-thsmora¢as,yrecoveryofm.alldebtsand
demands in Calcutta, Madras, and Bombay), but may, under
special circumstances, be directed to any person or persons
whom the Court issuing the Commission may think proper to
appoint.

17 7 . When the evidence of a witness is required, who is
resident at some place not within the jurisdiction of the
Sudder Court or of Her Majesty's Supreme Court, but within
the British territories in India or within the territories of a
Native Prince or State in alliance with the British Government, the Court, if it be satished that the evidence of such
witness is necessary, may, of its own motion or on the representation of any of the parties to the suit, issue a Commission
for the ‘examination of the witness; provided that, if the suit
be pending in any Court subordinate to the principal Civil
Court of a District, such subordinate Court shall not issue the

Commission, but the principal Civil Court of the District

may issue the Commission on the application of the subordinate Court.

17 8. When the evidence of a witness is required, who is
resident at some place beyond the said territories and not
within the territories of a Native Prince or State in alliance
with the British Government, the Sudder Court, if the suit in
which the evidence of the witness is required be pending in
that Court and the Court be satisfied that such evidence is
necessary, may, of its own motion or on the application of
any of the parties to the suit, issue a Commission to examine
the witness; if the suit be not pending in the Sudder Court,
that Court may issue the Commission on the application of
the Court inwhich the suit is pending. In all suchcases,
the Commission may be issued to any person or persons
whom the Sudder Court may think proper to appoint.

179. After the Commission has been duly executed, it
shall be returned, together with the deposition of the witness
who may have been examined thereunder, to the Court out
of which the Commission issued, unless otherwise directed by
the order for issuing the Commission, in which case it shall
be returned in terms of such order, and the Commission and
the return thereto and the deposition of the witness who may
have been examined under such Commission shall in all
cases form part of the record of the suit. But no deposition
taken under a Commission shall be read in evidence without
the consent of the party against whom the same may be
oR'ered, unless it be proved that the deponent is beyond the
jurisdiction of the Court, or dead, or unable from sickness or
infirmity to attend to be personally examined, or distant,
without collusion, more than a hundred miles from the place
where the Court is held, or exempted by reason of rank or
sex from personal appearance in Court, or unless the Court

shall, at its discretion, dispense with the proof of any of the

above circumstances, or shall authorize the deposition of any
witness being read in evidence, notwithstanding proof that
the causes for  such deposition have ceased at the time

of reading the same.

180. In any suit or other judicial proceeding in which the
Court may deem a local investigation to be requisite or
proper for the purpose of elucidating the matters _in dispute,
or of  the amount of any mesne profits or damages,
the Court may issue a Commission to an officer of the Court
appointed to execute such Commissions, or, if there be no
such officer, to any suitable person, directing him to make
such investigation and to report thereon to the Court. In
all such cases, unless otherwise directed by the order of
appointment, the Commissioner shall have power to examine
any witnesses who may be produced to him by‘ the parties or
any of them, the parties themselves, and any other persons
whom he may think proper to call upon to give evidence in
the matters referred to him; and also to call for and examine
documents and other papers relevant to the subject of inquiry;
and persons not attending on the requisition of the Commissioner, or refusing to give their testimony or to produce any
documents or other papers, shall be subject to the like disadvantages, penalties, and punishments, by order of the
Court on the report of the Commissioner, as they would
incur for the same offenses in suits tried before the Court.
The Commissioner, after such local inspection as he may
deem necessary, and after reducing to writing, in the manner
hereinbefore prescribed for taking the depositions of witnesses
in the presence of the Judge, the depositions taken by him,
shall return the depositions, together with his report in
writing, subscribed with his name, to the Court. The report
and depositions shall be taken as evidence in the suit and
shall form part of the record; but it shall be competent to
the Court, or to the parties to the suit or any of them, with

the permission of the Court, to examine the Commissioner
personally in open Court, touching any of the matters referred
to him or mentioned in his report, or the manner in which he
may have conducted the investigation.

18]. In any suit or other judicial proceeding in which an
investigation or adjustment of accounts may be necessary,
it shall  lawful for the Court to appoint such officer or other
person as aforesaid to be a Commissioner for the purpose of
making such investigation or adjustment, and to direct that
the parties or their attorneys or pleaders shall attend upon
the Commissioner during such investigation or adjustment.
In all such cases, the Court shall furnish the Commissioner
with such part of the proceedings and such detailed instructions as may appear necessary for his information and
guidance, and the instructions shall distinctly specify whether
the Commissioner is merely to transmit the proceedings
which he may hold on the inquiry or also to report his own
opinion on the. point referred for his investigation. The proceedings of the Commissioner shall be received in evidence
in the case, unless the Court may have reason to be dissatisfied with them; in which case the Court shall make such
further inquiry as may be requisite, and shall pass such
ultimate judgment or order as may appear to it to be right
and proper in the circumstances of the case.

182. Whenever a Commission is issued either for taking
evidence or for a local investigation or an investigation into
accounts, the Court, before  the Commission, may
order such sum as may be thought reasonable for the expenses
of the Commission to be paid into Court by the party at
whose instance or for whose benefit the Commission is issued.

OF JUDGMENT AND DEGREE.

183. When the exhibits have been perused, the witnesses
examined, and the parties heard in person or by their respective pleaders, the Court shall pronounce its judgment.
The judgment shall be pronounced in open Court either
immediately or on some future day of which due notice shall
be given to the parties or their pleaders.

184. The judgment shall be written in the vernacular
language of the Judge. Provided that if the vernacular

language of the Judge be not English and the Judge be
suiliciently conversant with the English language to be able

to write a clear and intelligible decision in that language»
and prefer to write his judgment in it, the judgment may be
written in English. 185. The judgment shall contain the point or points for
determination, the decision thereupon, and the reasons for the
decision, and shall be dated and signed by the Judge in open
Court at the time of pronouncing it. Whenever the judgment
is written in any other language than that which is in ordinary
use in the Court, the judgment shall be translated into the

language in ordinary use in the Court, and the translation
shall also be signed by the Judge.

186. In all suits in which issues have been framed, the
Court shall state its finding or decision on each separate
issue, unless the finding upon any one or more of the issues
he suilicient for the decision of the suit.

187. The judgment shall in all cases direct by whom the
costs of each party are to be paid, whether by himself or by

another party, and whether in whole or in what part or proportion; and the Court shall have full power to award and

apportion costs in any manner it may deem proper.

188. Under the denomination of costs are included the
whole of the expenses necessarily incurred by either party on
account of the suit, and in enforcing the decree passed therein,
such as the expense of stamps, of summoning the defendants
and witnesses, and of other processes, or of procuring copies

of documents, fees of pleaders, charges of witnesses, and expenses of Commissioners either in taking evidence or in local
investigations or in investigations into accounts.

189. The decree shall bear date the day on which the
judgment was passed. It shall contain the number of the
suit, the names and descriptions of the parties, and particulars of the claim, as stated in the Register of the suit, and
shall specify clearly the relief granted or other determination
of the suit It shall also state the amount of costs incurred
in the suit, and by what parties and in what proportions they
are to be paid; and shall be signed by the Judge and sealed
with the seal of the Court.

190. When the suit is for land or other immoveable property with specified boundaries, if the decree be for the recovery of a portion only of such property, it shall specify the
boundaries of the land or property adjudged.

191. When the suit is for moveable property, if the decree

be for the delivery of such property, it shall also state the

amount of money to be paid as an alternative if delivery
cannot be had.

192. When the suit is for damages for breach of contract,
if it appear that the defendant is able to perform the contract,
the Court with the consent of the plaintifff may decree the
specific performance of the contract within a time to be fixed
by the Court, and in such case shall award an amount of
damages to be paid as an alternative if the contract is not
performed.

193. When the suit is for a sum of money due to the
p1aintiE, the Court may in the decree order interest to be
paid on the principal sum adjudged from the date of suit to
the date of payment at such rate as the Court may think
proper.

194. In all decrees for the payment of money, the Court

may for any sumcient reason order that the amount shall be
paid by instalments with or without interest.

195. If the defendant shall have been allowed to set-oh‘ any
demand  the claim of the plaintiff, the decree shall
state what amount is due to the plaintifff and what amount (if
any) is due to the defendant, and shall be for the recovery of
any sum which shall appear to be due to either party. The
decree of the Court with respect to any sum awarded to the
defendant shall have the same effect and be subject to the
same rules as if such sum had been claimed by the defendant
in a separate suit against the plaintifff.

196. When the suit is for land or other property paying
rent, the Court may provide in the decree for the payment of
means profits or rent on such land or other property from the
date of the suit until the date of delivery of possession to the
decree-holder with interest thereupon at such rate as the
Court may think proper.

197. When the suit is for land and for mesne profits which
have accrued thereon during a period prior to the date of suit,
and the amount of such profits is disputed, the Court may
either determine the amount prior to passing a decree for the
land, or may pass a decree for the land and reserve the inquiry
into the amount of means profits for the execution of the
decree according as may appear most convenient.

198. Certified copies of the decree and judgment shall be
furnished to the parties or their pleaders on application to the
Court, and on the production of the necessary stamps whens
stamps are required by any law for the time being in force.
The application may be made either orally or by writing on
unstamped paper.

CHAPTER IV.

EXECUTION OF DEGREES.

199. If the decree be for land or other immoveable property, the same shall be delivered over to the party to whom
it shall have been adjudged.

200. If the decree be for any specific moveable, or for the
specific performance of any contract, or for the performance
of any other particular act, it shall be enforced by the seizure,
if practicable, of the specific moveable and the delivery thereof
to the party to whom it shall have been adjudged, or by imprisonment of the party against whom the decree is made, or by
attaching his property and keeping the same under attachment
until further order of the Court, or by both imprisonment and
attachment if necessary; or if alternative damages be awarded,
by levying such damages in the mode hereinafter provided
for the execution of a decree for money.

201. If the decree be for money, it shall be enforced by
the imprisonment of the party  whom the decree is
made, or by the attachment and sale of his property, or by
both if necessary; and if such party be other than a defendant, the decree may be enforced against him in the same
manner as a decree may be enforced under the provisions of
this chapter against a defendant. When the decree is
against Government or against any oilicer acting on behalf of
Government, if the officer whose duty it is to satisfy the decree neglect or refuse to satisfy the same, the Court shall
report the case through the Sudder Court for the orders of
Government, and execution shall not issue on the decree
unless the same shall remain unsatisfied for the space of three
months from the date of such report.

202. If the decree be for the execution of a conveyance or
for the endorsement of a negotiable instrument, and the party
ordered to execute or endorse such conveyance or negotiable
instrument shall neglect or refuse so to do, any party interested in having the same executed or endorsed may prepare
a conveyance or endorsement of the instrument in accordance
with the terms of the decree, and tender the same to the
Court, for execution upon the proper stamp  any is required
by law), and the signature thereof by the Judge shall have
the same eifect as the execution or endorsement thereof by
the party ordered to execute.

203. If the decree be against a party as the representative
of a deceased person, and such decree be for money to be
paid out of the property of the deceased person, it may be
executed by the attachment and sale of any such property,
or, if no such property can be found and the defendant fail to
satisfy the Court that he has duly applied such property of the
deceased as shall be proved to have come into his possemion,
the decree may be executed against the defendant to the
extent of the property not duly applied by him, in the same
manner as if the decree had been against the defendant personally. '

204. Whenever a person has become liable as security for
the performance of a decree or of any part thereof, the decree
may be executed against such person to the extent to which
he has rendered himself liable, in the same manner as a decree may be enforced against a defendant.

205. The following property is liable to attachment and
sale in execution of a decree, namely, lands, houses, goods,
money, bank-notes, cheques, bills of exchange, promissory
notes, Government securities, bonds, or other securities for
money, debts, shares in the capital or joint-stock of any railway, banking, or other public company or corporation, and
all other property whatsoever, moveable or immoveable, belonging to the defendant, and whether the same be held in

his own name or by another person in trust for him, or on his
behalf.

206. All monies payable under a decree shall be paid into
the Court, whose duty it is to execute the decree, unless such
Court or the Court which passed the decree shall otherwise
direct. No adjustment of a decree in part or in whole shall
be recognized by the Court unless such adjustment be made
through the Court or be certified to the Court by the person in

whose favour the decree has been made or to whom it has been
transferred.

APPLICATION FOR EXECUTION.

207. When any party in whose favour a decree has been
made is desirous of enforcing the same, he shall apply to the
Court whose duty it is to execute the decree either in person
or through his pleader in the suit or some other pleader duly

appointed to act for him in that behalf. If there be two or
more decree-holders, one or more of them may make the application, if the Court shall see sufiicient cause for allowing
him or them to make such application; and the Court shall
in such case pass such order as it may deem necessary for protecting the interests of the other decree-holders.

208. If a decree shall be transferred by assignment or by
operation of law from the original decree-holder to any other
person, application for the execution of the decree may be
made by the person to whom it shall have been so transferred
or his pleader; and if the Court shall think proper to grant
such application, the decree may be executed in the same

manner as if the application were made by the  decree-holder.

209. If there be cross-decrees between the same parties for

the payment of money, execution shall be taken out by that
party only who shall have obtained a decree for the larger

sum, and for so much only as shall remain after deducting the
smaller sum, and satisfaction for the smaller sum shall be
entered on the decree for the larger sum as well as satisfaction
on the decree for the smaller sum, and if both sums shall be
equal, satisfaction shall be entered upon both decrees.

The above rules shall apply to decrees sent to a Court for
execution as well as to decrees in the same Court.

Whenever a suit shall be pending in any Court against the
holder of a decree of such Court, by the person or persons
against whom the decree was passed, the Court may, if it
appear just and reasonable to do so, stay execution on the
decree either absolutely or on such terms as it may think just,
until a decree shall be passed in the pending suit.

210. If any person against whom a decree has been made
shall die before execution has been fully had thereon, application for execution thereof may be made against the legal
representative or the estate of the person so dying as aforesaid; and if the Court shall think proper to grant such application, the decree may be executed accordingly.

211. If the decree be ordered to be executed against the
legal representative it shall be executed in the manner provided in Section 203 for the execution of a decree for money
to be paid out of the property of a deceased person.

212. The application for execution of a decree shall be in
writing, and shall contain in a tabular form the following particulars, namely, the number of the suit, the names of the
parties, the date of the decree, whether any appeal has been
preferred from the decree, and whether any and what adjustment of the matter in dispute has been made between the
parties subsequently to the decree; the amount of the debt
or damages due upon it, or other relief granted by the decree; the amount of costs, if any were awarded; the name
of the person against whom the enforcement of the decree is
sought; and the mode in which the assistance of the Court is

required, whether by the delivery of property specifically
decreed, the arrest and imprisonment of the person named,

or attachment of his property, or otherwise as the case
may be.

213. When the application is for an attachment of any
land or other immoveable property belonging to the defendant, it shall be accompanied with an inventory or list of such
property, containing such a description of the property as
may be sufficient to identify it, together with a specification
of the defendant’s share or interest therein, to the best of the
applicant’s belief and so far as he has been able to ascertain
the same. And where the property is an estate paying
revenue to Government or any portion of such estate, the
application for an attachment shall be accompanied with an
authenticated extract from the Register of the Collector's
Oliice, specifying the revenue of such estate, and the names
and (where registered) the shares of the registered proprietors.

214. Where the application is for an attachment of the
defendant’s moveable property or any part thereof, it may be
accompanied with an inventory or list of the property to be
attached, containing a reasonably accurate description thereof;
or the applicant may apply for a general attachment of the
defendant’s moveable property wheresoever the same can be
found, to the amount of the judgment and costs.

215. The Court, on receiving any application for execution
of a decree containing the particulars above mentioned, or
such of them as may be applicable to the case, shall cause
the same to be compared with the original decree contained
in the record of the suit, and if they shall be found to correspond therewith, shall enter a note of the application, and the
date on which it was made, in the register of the suit. If the
particulars shall not be found to correspond with the original
decree, the Court shall either return the application for correction to the person making it, or shall, with the consent of
such person, cause the necessary correction to be made. .If
the application be admitted, the Court shall order execution

of the decree according to the nature of the application.

MEASURES REQUIRED IN CERTAIN CASES PRELIMINARY TO
THE ISSUE OF THE WARRANT.

216. If an interval of more than one year shall have
elapsed between the date of the decree and the application for
its execution, or if the enforcement of the decree be applied
for against the heir or representative of an original party to

the suit, the Court shall issue a notice to the party 
whom execution may be applied for requiring him to show

cause, within a limited period to be fixed by the Court, why
the decree should not be executed against him. Provided
that no such notice shall be necessary in consequence of an
interval of more than one year having elapsed, between the
date of the decree and the application for execution, if the
application be made within one year from the date of the last
order passed on any previous application for execution; and
provided further that no such notice shall be necessary in
consequence of the application being against an heir or representative, if upon a previous application for execution
against the same person, the Court shall _have ordered execution to issue  him.

217. When such notice is issued, if the party shall not
attend in person or by" a pleader, or shall not show suilicient
cause to the satisfaction of the Court why the decree should
not be forthwith executed, the Court shall order it to be executed accordingly. If the party shall attend in person or by
a pleader, and shall offer any objection to the enforcement of
the decree, the Court shall pass such order as in the circumstances of the case may appear to be just and proper.

218. Where the application is for a general attachment of

the moveable property of the defendant, it shall be competent
to the Court, if it shall think proper, before issuing an order
for such attachment, to require the applicant to give security
to the satisfaction of the Court, in such sum as may be considered adequate, for any injury that may be occasioned by
the attachment of property belonging to any other person
than the defendant.

219. Before granting the order for a general attachment or
at the instance of the plaintifff at any time after judgment
and before complete execution of the decree, the Court may
summon the person against whom the application is made
and examine him as to the property liable to be seized in
satisfaction of the judgment. The Court may also, of its own
motion or at the instance of any person interested in the
inquiry, summon any other person whom it may think
necessary and examine him in respect to such property, and
may require the person summoned to produce all deeds and
documents in his possession or power relating to such property.

220. In all cases in which a summons may be issued for
the attendance of a party to a suit or any other person at any
time after judgment, the rules applicable to the summoning
and examination of parties and witnesses after issues recorded,
shall apply to the party or witnesses so summoned.

ISSUE OF THE WARRANT.

221. When all necessary preliminary measures have been
taken, where any such are required, the Court, unless it see

cause to the contrary, shall issue the proper warrants for the
execution of the decree.

222. Every warrant for the execution of a decree shall bear
the date of the day on which it is issued, and shall be signed by
the Judge and sealed with the seal of the Court, and delivered

to the Nazi: or other proper officer of the Court. A day shall
be specified in the warrant on or before which it must be
executed, and the Nazir or other proper officer shall endorse
upon the warrant the day and the manner in which it was
executed, or if it was not executed the reason why it was not

executed, and shall return it with such endorsement to the
Court from which it issued.

OF THE EXECUTION OF DEGREES FOB IMMOVEABLE
PROPERTY.

223. If the decree be for a house, land, or other immoveable property in the occupancy of a defendant or some person
on his behalf, or of some person claiming under a title created
by the defendant subsequently to the institution of the suit,
the Court shall order delivery thereof to be made by putting
the party to whom the house, land, or other immoveable property may have been adjudged, or any person whom he may
appoint to receive delivery on his behalf, in possession thereof,
and if need be, by removing any person who may refuse
to vacate the same.

224. If the decree be for land or other immoveable property in the occupancy of ryots or other persons entitled to
occupy the same, the Court shall order delivery thereof to be
made by ailixing a copy of the warrant in some conspicuous
place on the land or other immoveable property, and proclaiming to the occupants of the property by beat of drum, or
in such,other mode as may be customary, at some convenient
place or places, the substance of the decree in regard to the
property.

225. If the decree be for the division of an estate or for
the separate possession of a share of an undivided estate paying revenue to Government, the division of the estate or the
separation of the share shall be made by the Collector under
the orders of the Court according to the rules in force for the
partition of an estate paying revenue to Government.

226. If in the execution of a decree for land or other immoveable property, the officer executing the same shall be 
resisted or obstructed by any person, the person in whose f
favour such decree was made may apply to the Court at any ‘
time within one month from the time of such resistance or
obstruction. The Court shall fix a day for investigating the

complaint, and shall summon the party against whom the
complaint is made to answer the same.

227. If it shall appear to the satisfaction of the Court, that
the obstruction or resistance was occasioned by the defendant,
or by some person at his instigation on the ground that the
land or other immoveable property is not included in the
decree, or on any other ground, the Court shall inquire into
the matter of the complaint and pass such order as may be
proper under the circumstances of the case.

228. If the Court shall be satisfied, after such investigation
of the facts of the case as it may deem proper, that the resistance or obstruction complained of was without any just
cause, and that the complainant is still resisted ‘V or obstructed
in obtaining effectual possession of the property adjudged to
him by the decree, by the defendant or some person at his
instigation, the Court may, at the instance of the plaintifff and
without prejudice to any proceedings to which such defendant
or other person may be liable under any law for the time
being in force for the punishment of such resistance or obstruction, commit the defendant or such other person to close
custody for such period not exceeding  days as may be

necessary to prevent the continuance of such obstruction or
resistance.

229. If it shall appear to the satisfaction of the Court that
the resistance or obstruction to the execution of the decree
has been occasioned by any person, other than the defendant’
claiming bond jide to be in possession of the property on his
own account or on account of some other person than the

defendant, the claim shall be numbered and registered as a
suit between the decree-holder as plaintiff and the claimant
as defendant, and the Court shall, without prejudice to any
proceedings to which the claimant may be liable under any
law for the time being in force for the punishment of such
resistance or obstruction, proceed to investigate the claim in
thesamemannerand withthe likepower asifasuitfor the
property had been instituted by the decree-holder against the
claimant under the provisions of this Act, and shall pass such
order for staying execution of the decree, or executing the
same, as it may deem proper in the circumstances of the
case.

230. If any person other than the defendant shall be dispossessed of any land or other immoveable property in execution of a decree, and such person shall dispute the right of
the decree-holder to  him of such property under the
decree on the ground that the property was bond jide in his
possession on his own account or on account of some other
person than the defendant, and that it was not included in
the decree, or, if included in the decree, that he was not a
party to the suit in which the decree was passed, he may apply
to the Court within one month from the date of such dispossession; and if, after examining the applicant, it shall appear
to the Court that there is probable cause for making the application, the application shall be numbered and registered as
a suit between the applicant as plaintifff, and the decreeholder as defendant, and the Court shall proceed to investigate the matter in dispute in the same manner and with the
like powers as if a suit for the property had been instituted
by the applicant against the decree-holder.

231. The decision passed by the Court under either of the
last two sections shall be of the same force as a decree in an

ordinary suit, and shall be subject to appeal under the rules
applicable to appeals from decrees; and no fresh suit shall

be entertained in any Court between the same party or parties
claiming under them in respect of the same cause of action.

OF THE EXECUTION OF DEGREES FOR MONEY BY ATTACHMENT OF PROPERTY.

232. If the decree be for money, and the amount thereof is
to be levied from the property of the person against whom the
same may have been pronounced, the Court shall cause the
property to be attached in the manner following.

233. VVhere‘ the property shall consist of goods, chattels, or
other moveable property in the possession of the defendant,
the attachment shall be made by actual seizure, and the Nazir
or other officer shall keep the same in his own custody, or in
the custody of his subordinates, and shall be responsible for
the due custody thereof.

234. Where the property shall consist of goods, chattels, or
other moveable property to which the defendant is entitled,
subject to a lien or right of some other person to the immediate possession thereof, the attachment shall be made by a
written order prohibiting the person in possession from giving
over the property to the defendant.

235. Where the property shall consist of lands, houses, or
other immoveable property, the attachment shall be made by
a written order prohibiting the defendant . from alienating the
property by sale, gift, or in any other way,-and all persons
from receiving the same by purchase, gift, or otherwise.

236. Where the property shall consist of debts not being
negotiable instruments, or of shares in any railway, banking,
or other public company or corporation, the attachment shall
be made by a written order prohibiting the creditor from
receiving the debts, and the debtor from making payment
thereof to any person whomsoever, until the further order of
the Court, or prohibiting the person in whose name the shares

may be  from making any transfer of the shares or
receiving payment of any dividends thereof, and the manager,
secretary, or other proper oliicer of the company or corporation from permitting any such transfer or making any such
payment until such further order. 7

237. Where the property shall consist of money, or of any

security, in deposit in any Court of Justice or in the hands of

any oliicer of Government, which is or may become payable
to the defendant or on his behalf, the attachment shall be

made by a notice to such Court or officer requesting that the
money or security may be held subject to the further order of

the Court by which the notice may be issued. Provided that,
if such money or security is in deposit in any Court of Justice,
any question of title or priority which may arise between the
decree-holder and any other person, not being the defendant,
claiming to be interested in such money or security by virtue
of any assignment, attachment, or otherwise, shall be determined by the Court in which such money or security is in
deposit.

238. Where the property shall consist of a negotiable instrument, the attachment shall be made by actual seizure,
and the Nazir or other officer shall bring the same into Court,
and such instrument shall be held subject to the further orders
of the Court.

239. In the case of goods, chattels, or other moveable property not in the possession of the defendant, the written order
shall be fixed up in some conspicuous part of the Courthouse,
and a copy of the order shall be delivered or sent registered
by post to the person in possession of the property. In the
case of lands, houses, or other immoveable property, the
written order shall be read aloud at some place on or adjacent
to such lands, houses, or other property, and shall be fixed up
in some conspicuous part of the Court-house; and when the
property is land or any interest in land, the written order shall

also be fixed up in the office of the Collector of the zillah in
which the land may be situated. In the case of debts, the
written order shall be fixed up in some conspicuous part of
the Court-house, and copies of the written order shall be
delivered or sent registered by post to each individual debtor.
And in the case of shares in the capital or joint-stock of any
railway, banking, or other public company or corporation, the
written order shall in like manner be fixed up in some conspicuous part of the Court-house, and a copy of the order
shall be delivered or sent registered by post to the manager,
secretary, or other proper officer of the company or corporation.

240. After any attachment shall have been made by actual
seizure, or by written order as aforesaid, and in the case of an
attachment by written order after it shall have been duly
intimated and made known in manner aforesaid, any private
alienation of the property attached, whether by sale, gift, or
otherwise, and any payment of the debt or debts or dividends

or shares to the defendant during the continuance of the
attachment, shall be null and void.

241. In every case in which a debtor shall be prohibited
from maldng payment of his debt to the creditor, he may pay
the amount into Court, and such payment shall have the same
effect as payment to the party entitled to receive the debt.

242. In all cases of attachment under the preceding sections, it shall be competent to the Court, at any time during
the attachment, to direct that any part of the property so
attached as shall consist of money or bank-notes, or a suilicient
part thereof‘, shall be paid over to the party applying for
execution of the decree; or that any part of the property so
attached as may not consist of money or bank-notes, so far as
may be necessary for the satisfaction of the decree, shall be
sold, and that the money which may be realized by such sale,
or a sumcient part thereof, shall be paid to such party.

243. When the property attached shall consist of debts due
to the party who may be answerable for the amount of the
decree, or of any lands, houses, or other immoveable property,
it shall be competent to the Court to appoint a manager of
the said property, with power to sue for the debts, and to
collect the rents or other receipts and profits of the land or other
immoveable property, and to execute such deeds or instruments in writing as may be necessary for the purpose, and to
pay and apply such rents, profits, or receipts towards the payment of the amount of the decree and costs; or when the
property attached shall consist of land, if the judgment debtor
can satisfy the Court that there is reasonable ground to believe
that the amount of the judgment may be raised by the mortgage of the land, or by letting it on lease, or by disposing by
private sale of a portion of the land or of any other property
belonging to the judgment debtor, it shall be competent to
the Court, on the application of the judgment debtor, to postpone the sale for such period as it may think proper to enable
the judgment debtor to raise the amount. In any case in which
a manager shall be appointed under this section, such manager
shall be bound to render due and proper accounts of his receipts
and disbursements from time to time as the Court may direct.

244. When in any district, where land paying revenue to
Government is ordinarily sold by the Collector, as provided in
Section 248, the property attached shall consist of any such
land, or of a share in any such land, if the Collector shall
represent to the Court that the public sale of the land or share
is objectionable, and that satisfaction of the decree may be
made within a reasonable period by a temporary alienation of
the land or share, the Court may authorize the Collector, on
security for the amount of the decree or for the value of such
land or share being given, to make provision for such satisfaction in the manner recommended by the Collector, instead of
proceeding to a public sale of the land or share.

245. If the amount decreed with costs and all charges and
expenses which may be incurred by the attachment be paid
into Court, or if satisfaction of the decree be otherwise made,
an order shall be issued for the withdrawal of the attachment;
and if the defendant shall desire it and shall deposit in Court
a sum sufficient to cover the expense, the order shall be proclaimed or intimated in the same manner as hereinbefore
prescribed for the proclamation or intimation of the attachment; and such steps shall be taken as may be necessary for
staying further proceedings in execution of the decree.

OF CLAIMS TO ATTACHED PROPERTY.

246. In the event of any claim being preferred to, or objection offered against the sale of lands or any other immoveable
or moveable property which may have been attached in execution of a decree or under any order for attachment passed
before judgment, as not liable to be sold in execution of a
decree against the defendant, the Court shall, subject to the
proviso contained in the next succeeding section, proceed to
investigate the same with the like powers as if the claimant
had been originally made a defendant to the suit, and also

with such powers as regards the summoning of the original

defendant as are contained in Section 220. And if it shall
appear to the satisfaction of the Court that the land or other
immoveable or moveable property was not in the possession of
the party  whom execution is sought, or of some other
person in trust for him, or in the occupancy of ryots or cultivators or other persons paying rent to him at the time when
the property was attached, or that, being in the possession of
the party himself at such time, it was so in his possession not
on his own account or as his own property, but on account of
or in trust for some other person, the Court shall pass an
order for releasing the said property from attachment. But

if it shall appear to the satisfaction of the Court that the land

or other immoveable or moveable property was in possession
of the party  whom execution is sought, as his own
property, and not on account of any other person, or was in
the possession of some other person in trust for him, or in the
occupancy of ryots or cultivators or other persons paying rent
to him at the time when the property was attached, the Court
shall disallow the claim. The order which may be passed by
the Court under this section shall not be subject to appeal,
but the party against whom the order may be given shall be
at liberty to bring a suit to establish his right at any time
within one year from the date of the order.

247. The claim or objection shall be made at the earliest
opportunity to the Court which shall have ordered the attachment; and if the property to which the claim or objection
applies, shall have been advertized for sale, the sale may (if it
appears necessary) be postponed for the purpose of making
the investigation mentioned in the last preceding section.
Provided that no such investigation shall be made if it appear
that the making of the claim or objection was designedly and
unnecessarily delayed, with a view to obstruct the ends of
justice. The order disallowing the investigation shall not be
subject to appeal, and the claimant shall be left to prosecute
his claim by a regular suit.

or SALES IN EXECUTION or nsoanss.

248. Sales in execution of decrees shall be conducted by an
oiiicer of the Court or by any other person whom the Court may
appoint, and shall in all cases be made by public auction in manner hereinafter mentioned. Provided that if the property to be
sold shall consist of negotiable securities or of shares in any railway, banking, or other public company or corporation, it shall
be competent to the Court, instead of directing the sale to be
made by public auction, to authorize the sale of such securities

or shares through a broker at the market-rate of the day. If
the property to be sold shall be land paying revenue to
Government and the Government shall so direct, the sale

shall be conducted by the Collector on the requisition of the
Court.

249. In all cases of intended sale by public auction, whether
of moveable or immoveable property, in execution of a decree,
a proclamation of the intended sale, specifying the time and
place of sale, the property to be sold, the revenue assessed
upon the estate when the property to be sold is an estate or a
part of an estate paying revenue to Government, and the
amount for the recovery of which the sale is ordered, together
with any other particulars that the Court may think necessary,
shall be made in the current language of the district. The
proclamation shall also declare that the sale extends only to
the right, title, and interest of the defendant in the property
specified therein. Such proclamation shall be made on the
spot where the property is attached by beat of drum or in
such other mode as may be customary; and a written notification to the same effect shall be allixed in the Court-house
of the Judge who shall have ordered the sale, and in some
conspicuous spot in the town or village in which the attachment may have taken place. When the property ordered to
be sold may consist of land or of any right or interest in land,
the written notification shall also be affixed in the office of the
Collector of the district in which such land is situate and in
the Courthouse of the principal Civil Court of the district
where the Court which ordered the sale is subordinate to such
Court. The sale shall not take place until after the expiration of at least thirty days in the case of immoveable property,
and of at least fifteen days in the case of moveable property,
calculated from the date on which the notification shall have
been affixed in the Court-house of the Judge ordering the
sale.

250. The usual process for attachment and sale when the
property to be attached consists of goods, chattels, or other
personal estate other than debts, may be issued either successively or simultaneously as the Court directing the sale may
in each instance think proper.

251. In all cases of sale of moveable property, the price of
everylotshallbepaid foratthetimeofsale orassoon after
as the oilicer holding the sale shall direct, and in default of
such payment the property shall forthwith be  put up
and sold. On payment of the» purchase money, the ohicer
holding the sale shall grant a receipt for the same, and the
sale shall become absolute.

252. N o irregularity in the sale of moveable property under
an execution, shall vitiate the sale; but any person who may
sustain any injury by reason of such irregularity may recover
damages by a suit in Court.

253, In all cases of sale of immoveable property, the party
who is declared to be the purchaser shall be required to deposit immediately twenty-five per centum on the amount of
his bid, and in default of such deposit the property shall forthwith be again put up and sold.

254. The full amount of purchase money shall be made
good by the purchaser before sunset of the fifteenth day from
that on which the sale of the property took place, or if the
fifteenth day be a Sunday or other close holiday, then on the
first office day after the fifteenth day; and in default of payment within such -period, the deposit, after defraying the
expenses of the sale, shall be forfeited to Government, and
the property shall be resold and the defaulting purchaser shall
forfeit all claim to the property or to any part of the sum for
which it may subsequently be sold. If the proceeds of the
sale which is eventually consummated be less than the price
bid by such defaulting purchaser, the difference shall be

leviable from him under the rules for enforcing the payment
of money in satisfaction of a decree of Court.

255. Every re-sale of immoveable property in default of
payment of the purchase money shall be made after the issue

of a fresh notification in the manner and for the period prescribed for original sales.

256. No sale of immoveable property shall become absolute
until the sale has been confirmed by the Court. At any time
within thirty days from the date of the sale, application may
be made to the Court to set aside the sale on the ground of
any material irregularity in publishing or conducting the sale,
but no sale shall be set aside on the ground of such irregularity unless the applicant shall prove to the satisfaction of
the Court that he has sustained substantial injury by reason
of such irregularity.

257. If no such application as is mentioned in the last preceding section be made, or if such application be made and
the objection be disallowed, the Court shall pass an order confirming the sale; and in like manner if such application be
made, and if the objection be allowed, the Court shall pass an
order setting aside the sale for irregularity. If the objection
be allowed, the order made to set aside the sale shall be final;
if the objection be disallowed, the order confirming the sale
shall be open to appeal; and such order, unless appealed

m, and if appealed from then the order passed on the

%p)peal, shall be final; and the party against whom the same
has been given shall be precluded from bringing a suit for
Establishing his claim.

258. Whenever a sale of immoveable property is set aside,
the purchaser shall be entitled to receive back his purchase
money with or without interest, in such manner as it may
appear proper to the Court to direct in each instance.

259. After a sale of immoveable property shall have become absolute in manner aforesaid, the Court shall grant a
certificate to the person who may have been declared the
purchaser at such sale, to the effect that he has purchased the
right, title, and interest of the defendant in the property sold,
and such certificate shall be taken and deemed to be a valid
transfer of such right, title, and interest.

260. The certificate shall state the name of the person who
at the time of sale is declared to be the actual purchaser, and
any suit brought against the certified purchaser on the ground
that the purchase was made on behalf of another person not
the certified purchaser, though by agreement the name of the
certified purchaser was used, shall be dismissed with costs.

261. Where the property sold shall consist of goods, chattels, or other moveable property in the possession of the
defendant, or to the immediate possession of which the dc.»
fendant is entitled, and of which actual seizure has been
made, the property shall be delivered to the purchaser.

262. Where the property sold shall consist of goods, chattels, or other moveable property to which the defendant is
entitled subject to a lien or right of any person to the immediate possession thereof, the delivery to the purchaser shall, as
far as practicable, be made by giving notice to the person in
possession prohibiting him from delivering possession of the
property to any person except the purchaser thereof.

263. If the property sold shall consist of a house, land, or
other immoveable property, in the occupancy of a defendant
or some person on his behalf, or of some person claiming
under a title created by the defendant tubsequently to the
attachment of such property, the Court shall order delivery
thereof to be made by putting the party to whom the house,
land, or other immoveable property may have been sold, or
any person whom he may appoint to receive delivery on his
behalf, in possession thereof, and, if need be, by removing any
person who may refuse to vacate the same.

264. If the property sold shall consist of land or other immoveable property in the occupancy of ryots or other persons
entitled to occupy the same, the Court shall order delivery
thereof to be made by ailixing a copy of the certificate of sale
in some conspicuous place on the land or other immoveable
property, and proclaiming to the occupants of the property
by beat of drum, or in such other mode as may be customary,
at some convenient place or places, that the right, title, and

interest of the defendant has been transferred to the purchaser.

265. Where the property sold shall consist of debts not
being negotiable instruments or of shares in any railway,
banking, or other public company or corporation, the delivery
thereof shall be by a written order of the Court prohibiting
the creditor from receiving the debts, and the debtor from
making payment thereof to any person or persons except the
purchaser, or prohibiting the person in whose name the shares
may be standing, from making any transfer of the shares to
any person except the purchaser, or receiving payment of any
dividends thereon, and the manager, secretary, or other proper
officer of the company or corporation from permitting any
such transfer or making any such payment to any person
except the’ purchaser.

266. Where the property sold shall consist of negotiable

securities of which actual seizure has been made, the same
shall be delivered to the purchaser thereof.

267. If the endorsement or conveyance of the party in
whose name any negotiable security or any share in a public
company or corporation is standing, shall be required to
transfer the same, the Judge may endorse the security or the
certificate of the share, or may execute such other document
as may be necessary for transferring the same. The endorsement or execution shall be in the following form or to the

like effect—“ A. B. by C. D. Judge of the Court of (or as the

case may .be); in a suit by E. F. versus A. B.” Until the
transfer of such security or share, the Judge may, by order,
appoint some person to receive any interest or dividend due
thereon, and to sign receipts for the same; and any endorsement made or document executed or receipts signed as aforesaid
shall be as valid and effectual for all purposes, as if the same
had been made or executed or signed by the party himself.

268. If the purchaser of any immoveable property sold in
execution of a decree shall be resisted or obstructed in obtaining possession of the property, the provisions contained in
Sections 226, 227, and 228 relating to resistance or obstruction to a party in whose favour a suit has been decreed_in
obtaining possession of the property adjudged to him, shall
be applicable in the case of such resistance or obstruction.

269. If it shall appear that the resistance or obstruction to
the delivery of possession was occasioned by any person other
than the defendant claiming a right to the possession of the
property sold as proprietor, mortgagee, lessee, or under any
other title, or if in the delivery of possession to the purchaser
any such person claiming as aforesaid shall be 
the Court, on the complaint of the purchaser, or of such
person claiming as aforesaid, if made within one month from
the date of such resistance or obstruction or of such 
sion as the case may be, shall inquire into the matter of the
complaint and pass such order as may be proper in the circumstances of the case. The order shall not be subject to
appeal, but the party against whom it is given shall be at
liberty to bring a suit to establish his right at any time within
one year from the date thereof.

270. Whenever property is sold in execution of a decree,
the person on whose application such property was attached
shall be entitled to be first paid out of the proceeds thereof.

notwithstanding a subsequent attachment of the same property by another party in execution of a prior decree.

271. If, after the claim of the person on whose application
the property was attached has been satisfied in full from the
proceeds of the sale, any surplus remain, such surplus shall
be distributed rateably amongst any other persons who prior
to the order for such distribution may have taken out execution of decrees against the same defendant and not obtained
satisfaction thereof. . Provided that, when any property is sold

subject to a mortgage, the mortgagee shall not be entitled to
share in any surplus arising from such sale.

272. If it shall appear to the Court, upon the application
of a decree-holder, that any other decree under which property has been attached was obtained by fraud or other improper means, the Court may order that the applicant shall
be satisfied out of the proceeds of the property attached so
far as the same may suflice for the purpose if such other
decree be a decree of that Court, or, if it be a decree of

another Court, may stay the proceedings to enable the applicant to obtain a similar order from the Court by which the
decree was made.

OF ARREST IN EXECUTION OF DEGREES FOR MONEY.

273. Any person arrested under a warrant in execution
of a decree for money may, on being brought before the
Court, apply for his discharge on the ground that he has no
present means of paying the debt, either wholly or in part,
or, if possessed of any property, that he is  to place
whatever property he possesses at the disposal of the Court.
The application shall contain a full account of all property
of whatever nature belonging to the applicant, whether in
expectancy or in possession, and whether held exclusively by
himself or jointly with others, or by others in trust for him
(except the necessary wearing apparel of himself and his
family and the necessary implements of his trade), and of
the places respectively where such property is to be found,

or shall state that, with the exceptions above—mentioned., the
applicant is not possessed of any property, and the application shall be subscribed and verified by the applicant in the
manner hereinbefore prescribed for subscribing and verifying
plaints.

27 4. Upon such application being made, the Court shall
examine the applicant in the presence of the plaintiff or his
pleader as to his then circumstances, and as to his future
means of payment, and shall call upon the plaintii to show
cause why he does not proceed  any property of which
the defendant is possessed, and why the defendant should not
be  ; and should the p1aintiE fail to show such
cause, the Court may direct the discharge of the defendant
from custody. Pending any inquiry which the Court may
consider it necessary to make into the allegations of either
party, the Court may leave the defendant in the custody of
the oilicer of the Court to whom the service of the warrant
was entrusted, on the defendant  the necessary deposit
for paying the fees of such oilicer; or if the defendant furnish
good and sullicient security for his appearance at any time
when called upon while such inquiry is being made, his surety
or sureties undertaking. in default of such appearance to pay
the amount mentioned in the warrant, the Court may release
the defendant on such security.

275. The discharge of the defendant under the last preced: ing section shall not protect him h-om being arrested again and

imprisoned if it should be shown that, in the application made
by him, he had been guilty _of any concealment or of willfully
making any false statement  the property belonging
to him, whether in possession or in expectancy or held for him
in trust, or had fraudulently concealed, ‘transferred, or removed
any property, or had committed any other act of bad faith;
nor shall such discharge exempt from attachment and sale any

property then in the possession of the defendant, or of which
he may afterwards become possessed. .. .. . ...

OF THE ‘EXECUTION OF DEGREES BY IHPBISONMENT.

276. When a defendant is committed to prison in execution
of a decree, the Court shall fix whatever monthly allowance it
shall think sufficient for his subsistence, not exceeding four
annas per day, which shall be supplied by the party at whose
instance the decree may have been executed, to the proper
officer of the Court or of the gaol where the defendant may
be in custody, by monthly payments in advance, before the
first day of each month; the first payment to be made for
such portion of the current month as may remain unexpired

before the defendant is committed to prison.

277. The Court may, in case of illness or for other special
cause, fix the monthly allowance at such sum not exceeding
six annas per day as shall appear necessary. The order 
such allowance may from time to time be revised and altered
on due cause being shown.

278. A defendant shall be released at any time on the
decree being fully satisfied, or at the request of the person at
whose instance he may have been imprisoned, or on such
person omitting to pay the allowance as above directed. N 0
person shall be imprisoned on accotmt of a decree for a longer
period than two years, or for a longer period than six months
if the decree be for the payment of money not exceeding five
hundred rupees, or for a longer period than three months if

the decree be for the payment of money not exceeding fifty
rupees.
279. Sums disbursed by a plaintifff for the subsistence of a

defendant in gaol shall be added to the costs of the decree,
and shall be recoverable by the attachment and sale of the

property of the defendant under the foregoing rules; but the

defendant shall not be detained in custody or arrested on
account of any sums so disbursed.

280. Any person in confinement under a decree may apply
to the Court for his discharge. The application shall contain
a full account of all property of whatever nature belonging to
the applicant, whether in expectancy or in possession, and
whether held exclusively by himself or jointly with others, or
by others in trust for him (except the necessary wearing
apparel of himself and his family and the necessary implements of his trade), and of the places respectively where such
property is to be found ; and such application shall be subscribed and verified by the applicant in the manner hereinbefore provided for subscribing and verifying plaints.

281. On such application being made, the Court shall cause
the plaintifff to be furnished with a copy of the account of the
defendant’s property, and shall fix a reasonable period within
which the plaintifff may cause the whole or any part of such
property to be attached and sold or may make proof that the
defendant, for the purpose of procuring his discharge without
satisfying the decree, has willfully concealed property, or his
right or interest therein, or fraudulently transferred or removed property, or committed any other act of bad faith. If
within such period the plaintiil’ shall fail to make such proof,
the Court shall cause the defendant to be set at liberty. If
the plaintifff shall within the time specified, or at any subsequent
period, prove to the satisfaction of the Court that the defendant
has been guilty of any of the acts abovementioned, the Court
shall, at the instance of the plaintifff, either retain the defendant in confinement, or commit him to prison, as the case
may be, unless he shall have already been in confinement two
years on account of the decree; and may also, if it shall think
proper, send the defendant to the Magistrate to be dealt with
according to law.

282. A defendant once discharged shall not again be imprisoned on account of the same decree, except under the

operation of the last preceding section, but his property shall
continue liable, under the ordinary rules, to attachment and
sale until the decree shall be fully satisfied, unless the decree
shall be for a sum less than one hundred rupees and on account of a transaction bearing date subsequently to the passing
of this Act. When the decree shall be for a sum less than
one hundred rupees, and on account of a transaction bearing
date as above, the Court may declare a defendant who shall

be  as aforesaid absolved from further liability under
that decree.

283. All questions ' regarding the amount of any mesne
proiits which by the terms of the decree may have been
reserved for adjustment in the execution of the decree, or of
any mesne protits or interest which may be made payable in
respect of the subject matter of a suit between the date of the
institution of the suit and execution of the decree, as well as
questions relating to sums alleged to have been paid in discharge or satisfaction of the decree or the like, shall be determined by order of the Court executing the decree and not by

separate suit; and the order passed by the Court shall be
open to appeal.

OF EXECUTION OF A DECREE OUT OF THE JURISDICTION OF
THE COURT BY WHICH IT WAS PASSED.

284. A decree of any Civil Court within any part of the
British territories in India, or established by the authority of
the Governor General of India in Council in the territories of
any foreign Prince or State, which cannot be executed within
the jurisdiction of the Court whose duty it is to execute the
same, may be executed within the jurisdiction of any other
such Court in the manner following.

285. The plaintifff in such case may apply to the Court
whose duty it is to execute the decree, to‘ transmit a copy
thereof, together with a certificate that satisfaction of such
decree has not been obtained by execution within the 
tion of the said Court, and a copy of any order for execution
of such decree that may have been pamed, to the Court by
which the applicant may wish the decree to be executed.

286. The Court, unless there be any suiiicient reason to
the contrary, shall cause such copies and certificate to be prepared: and the same, after being signed by the Judge and
sea1edwiththesealoftheCourt,shallbe transmitted tot-he
Court indicated by the applicant if that Court be within the
same district, otherwise to the principal Civil Court of original
jurisdiction in the district in which the applicant may wish
the decree to be executed; and the_ Court to which such
copies and certificates are transmitted shall cause the same to
be filed therein, without any proof of the judgment or order
for execution, or of the copies thereof, or of the seal or jurisdiction of any Court, or of the signature of any Judge, unles
it shall, under any peculiar circumstances to be speciiied in
an order, require such proof.

287. The copy of any decree, or of any order for execution,
when filed in the Court to which it shall have been transmitted for the purpose of being executed as aforesaid, shall
for such purpose have the same effect as a decree or order for
execution made by such Court, and may, if the Court be the
principal Civil Court of original jurisdiction in the district, be
executed by such Court, or any Court subordinate thereto, to
which it may entrust the execution of the same.

288. When application shall be made to any Court to
execute the decree of any other Court as aforesaid, the Court
to which the application shall be made or referred shall proceed to execute the same according to its own rules in the
like cases; provided that such Court shall have no power to

inquire into ‘the validity of the decree unless it appear upon
the face of the decree that the Court by which it was made
had no jurisdiction to make the same.

289. The Court to which such application is made or referred for execution as aforesaid, shall take cognizance of and
punish all wrongful acts or irregularities done or committed
in executing such decree; and all persons disobeying or obstructing the execution of such decree shall be punishable by

such Court in the same manner as if the decree had been
made by such Court.

290. The Court to which such application is made may,
upon good and suiiicient cause being shown, stay the execution of the decree for a reasonable time, to enable the defendant to apply to the Court by which the decree was passed, or
to any Court having appellate jurisdiction in respect of the
decree or the execution thereof, for an order to stay the execution, or for any other order relating to the decree or the
execution thereof, which such Court of first instance or Court
of Appeal might have made if execution had been issued by
such Court of first instance, or if application for execution
had been made to such Court; and in case the property or
person of the defendant shall have been seized under an execution, the Court which issued the execution may order the
restitution of the property or the discharge of the person of
the defendant pending the result of such application.

291. Before making an order to stay execution, or for the
restitution of property, or the discharge of the defendant
under the last preceding section, the Court may require such

security from, or impose such conditions upon the defendant
as it may deem reasonable.

292. Any order of the Court in which the decree was

passed, or of such Court of Appeal as aforesaid, shall be binding upon the Court to which the application for execution was

made, and shall be a sumcient indemnity for all persons acting in execution of process issued by such last-mentioned
Court.

293. N o discharge of a defendant under the provisions of
Section 290, shall prevent him from being retaken in execution of the decree.

294. All orders of a Court for executing the decree of
another Court shall be subject to the same rules, in respect to

appeal, as if the decree had been originally passed by the
Court  such order.

295. If, in execution of a decree, a warrant of arrest or
other process is to be enforced within the limits of a garrison,
cantonment, military station, or military bazaar, the officer entrusted with the execution of such warrant or other process
shall carry the same to the Commanding Oilicer, or, in his
absence, to the Senior Oflicer actually present in the garrison,
cantonment, station, or military bazaar; and the 
Oflicer, or such Senior Oflicer, upon such warrant or other
process being produced to him, shall hack the same with his
signature, and, in the case of a warrant of arrest, shall cause
the person named in the warrant to be arrested if within the
limits of his command and delivered,  to the exigency of the warrant, to the civil officer charged with the
execution thereof.

296. The rules contained in this chapter shall be applicable
to the execution of any judicial process for the sale of property, or for the payment of money which may be ordered by
a Civil Court in any civil proceeding.

CHAPTER V.

OF PAUPER SUITS.

297. A SUIT may be brought in formd‘ pauper-as in the Court

having jurisdiction over the claim, subject to the following
rules :—

298. No pauper-suit shall be brought for the recovery of
any sum of money on account, of damages for loss of caste,
slander, abusive language, or assault.

299. The application to the Court for permission to sue in
forma pauperis shall be by petition, which shall be written on
a stamp paper of the value of eight annas.

300. The petition shall contain the particulars required by

Section 26 of this Act, in regard to plaints, and shall have
annexed to it a Schedule of any moveable or immoveable
property belonging to the petitioner, with the estimated value
thereof, and shall be subscribed and verified in the manner
hereinbefore prescribed for the subscription and verification
of plaints.

301. The petition shall be presented to the Court by the
petitioner in person; but if the petitioner satisfy the Court
that he is prevented by sickness from attending the Court in
person, or if the petitioner be a female, who, according to the
custom and manners of the country, ought not to be compelled
to appear in public, the petition may be presented by a duly
authorized agent who may be able to answer all material
questions relating to the application, and who shall be liable
to be examined in the same manner as the party represented
by him might have been examined had such party attended
in person.

302. If the petition be not framed or presented in the
mannerlaiddowninthelasttwoprecedingsections, the
Court shall reject the petition.

303. If the petition be in form and duly presented, the
Court shall proceed to examine the petitioner, or the agmt
of the petitioner, as the case may be, regarding the merits of
the claim and the property of the petitioner. When the petition is presented by an agent, the Court may also, if it think
proper, order that the petitioner be examined in the manner
hereinbefore prescribed for the examination of absent witnesses.

304. If it appear to the Court upon such examination that
the defendant, or the matter of the suit, is not within the
jurisdiction of the Court, or that the claim is barred by the
Statute of Limitations, or that the allegations of the petitioner do not constitute a reasonable ground of action, or (if
none of the objections above stated exist) that the petitioner
has failed to show that he is not possessed of sufficient means
to enable him to pay for the stamps required for the institution and prosecution of the suit, or that the petitioner has
recently  of any property fraudulently, or with a view
to obtain the benefit of this chapter, the Court shall refuse to
allow the petitioner to sue as a pauper.

305. If upon such examination the Court shall see no
reason to refuse the application on any of the grounds stated
in the last preceding section, it shall fix a day (of which at
least ten days’ previous notice shall be given to the opposite
party) for receiving such evidence as the petitioner may addues in proof of his pauperism, and for hearing any evidence
which the opposite party may bring forward in disproof of the
pauperism of the petitioner.

306. On the day appointed for the hearing, or as soon after
as the business of the Court will permit, the Court shall eonsider any objections made by the opposite party, and shall
examine any witnesses produced by either party, and make a
memorandum of the substance of their evidence, and shall
either allow or refuse to allow the petitioner to sue as a
pauper.

307. Previously to passing a final order in the case, the
Court may, if it deem fit, institute a local inquiry, in the
manner laid down in Section 180 of this Act, regarding the

property of the petitioner, or regarding the amount or value
of the property claimed.

308. If the application of the petitioner be granted and
numbered, it. shall be registered and shall be deemed the
plaint in the suit, and the suit shall proceed in all other respects as an ordinary suit, except that the plaintifff shall not
be liable to any further stamp duty in respect of any petition,
appointment of a pleader, or other proceeding connected with
the suit or with the execution of any decree passed in it.

309. On the decision of the suit, the Court shall calculate
the amount of stamps which would have been paid by the
plaintiff if he had not been permitted to sue as a pauper, and
such amount shall be recoverable by Government from any

party ordered by the decree to pay the same, in the same
manner as costs of suit are recoverable.

310. The refusal to allow the petitioner to sue as a pauper

shall be a bar to any subsequent application of the like nature in respect of the same cause of action; but the plaintiii‘
shall beatlibertytoinstitute asuit in the usual manner in

respect of such cause of action, unless precluded by the rules
for the limitation of suits.

311. The orders passed by the Court under the provisions
of this chapter shall not be subject to appeal.

REFERENCE TO ARBITRATION.

312. IF the parties to a suit are desirous that the matters
in difference between them in the suit, or any of such matters, shall be referred to the final decision of one or more
arbitrator or arbitrators, they may apply to the Court at any
time before final judgment for an order of reference.

313. The application shall he made by the parties in person, or by their pleaders, specially authorized in that behalf
by an instrument in writing, which shall be presented to the
Court at the time of making the application, and shall be filed
with the proceedings in the suit.

314. The arbitrator or arbitrators shall be nominated by
the parties in such manner as may be agreed upon between
them. If the parties cannot agree with respect to the nomination of the arbitrator or arbitrators, or if the person or
persons nominated by them shall refuse to accept the arbitration, and the parties are desirous that the nomination shall
be made by the Court, the Court shall appoint the arbitrator
or arbitrators.

315. The Court shall, by an order under its seal, refer to
the arbitrator or arbitrators the matters in difference in the
suit which he or they may be required to determine, and shall
fix such time as it may think reasonable for the delivery of

the award, and the time so fixed shall be specified in the
order.

316. If the reference be to two or more arbitrators, provision shall be made in the order for a diiference of opinion
among the arbitrators, by the appointment of an umpire, or

by declaring that the decision shall be with the majority, or
by empowering the arbitrators to appoint an umpire, or otherwise as may be agreed upon between the parties; or if they
cannot agree, as the Court may determine

317. When a reference is made to arbitration by an order
of Court, the Court shall issue the same processes to the
parties and witnesses whom the arbitrator or arbitrators or
umpire may desire to have examined, as the Court is authorized to issue in suits tried before it; and persons not
attending in consequence of such process, or making any
other default, or refusing to give their testimony, or being
guilty of any contempt to the arbitrator or arbitrators or umpire during the investigation of the suit, shall be subject to
the like disadvantages, penalties, and punishments, by order
of the Court on the representation of the arbitrator or arbitrators or umpire, as they would incur for the same offenses in
suits tried before the Court.

318. When the arbitrator or arbitrators shall not have been
able to complete the award within the period specified in the
order, from the want of the necessary evidence or information,
or other good and sufficient cause, the Court may from time
to time enlarge the period for the delivery of the award, if it
shall think proper. In any case in which an umpire shall
have been appointed, it shall be lawful for him to enter on
the reference in lieu of the arbitrators, if they shall have
allowed their time or their extended time to expire without
making an award, or shall have delivered to the Court or to
the umpire a notice in writing stating that they cannot
agree. Provided that an award shall not be liable to be set
aside only by reason of its not having been completed within
the period allowed by the Court, unless on proof that the
delay in completing the award arose from corruption or misconduct of the arbitrator or arbitrators or umpire, or unless
the award shall have been made after the issue of an order

by the Court superseding the arbitration and recalling the
suit.

319. If, in any case of reference to arbitration by an order
of Court, the arbitrator or arbitrators or umpire shall die, or
refuse or become incapable to act, it shall be lawful for the
Court to appoint a new arbitrator or arbitrators or umpire, in
the place of the person or persons so dying, or refusing or
becoming incapable to act. Where the arbitrators are empowered by the terms of the order of reference to appoint an
umpire and do not appoint an umpire, any of the parties may
serve the arbitrators with a written notice to appoint an umpire; and if within seven days after such notice shall have
been served, no umpire be appointed, it shall be lawful for
the Court, upon the application of the party having served
such notice as aforesaid, and upon proof to its satisfaction of
such notiw having been served, to appoint an umpire. In
any case of appointment under this section, the arbitrator or
arbitrators, or umpire so appointed, shall have the like power
to act in the reference, as if their name or names had been
inserted in the original order of reference.

320. When an award in a suit shall be made either by the
arbitrator or arbitrators, or by the umpire, it shall be submitted to the Court under the signature of the person or
persons by whom it may be made, together with all the proceedings, depositions, and exhibits in the suit.

321. It shall be lawful for the arbitrator or arbitrators or
umpire, upon any reference, by an order of Court if he or
they shall think fit, and if it is not provided to the contrary,
to state his or their award as to the whole or any part thereof, in the form of a special case for the opinion of the Court.

322. The Court may, on the application of either party,
modify or correct an award where it appears that a part of

the award is upon matters not referred to the arbitrators, pro- vided such part can be separated from the other part, and

does not effect the decision on the matter referred; or where
the award is imperfect in form, or contains any obvious error
which can be amended without aEecting such decision. The
Court may also on such application make such order as it
thinks just respecting the costs of the arbitration, if any
question arise respecting such costs and the award contain no
suliicient provision concerning them.

323. In any of the following cases the Court shall have
power to remit the award or any of the matters referred to

arbitration to the reconsideration of the same arbitrator or
arbitrators or umpire, upon such terms as it may think proper
(that is to say)If the award has left undetermined some of the matters
referred to arbitration, or if it determine matters not referred
to arbitration.

If the award is so indefinite as to be incapable of execution.

If an objection to the legality of the award is apparent upon
the face of the award.

324. No award shall be liable to be set aside except on
the ground of corruption or misconduct of the arbitrators or
umpire. Any application to set aside an award shall be
made within ten days after the same has been submitted to
the Court.

325. If the Court shall not see cause to remit the award or
any of the matters referred to arbitration for reconsideration
in manner aforesaid, and if no application shall have been
made to set aside the award, or if the Court shall have refused
such application, the Court shall proceed to pass judgment
according to the award, or according to its own opinion on
the special case if the award shall have been submitted to it
in the form of a special case; and upon the judgment which
shall be so given decree shall follow and shall be carried into
execution in the same manner as other decrees of the Court.

In every case in which judgment shall be given according to
the award, the judgment shall be final.

326. When any persons shall by an instrument in writing
agree that any diderences between them or any of them
shall be referred to the arbitration of any person or persons
named in the agreement, or to be appointed by any Com-t
having jurisdiction in the matter to which it relates, application may be made by the parties thereto, or any of them, that
the agreement be filed in such Court. On such application
being made, the Court shall direct such notice to be given to
any of the parties to the agreement, other than the applicants, as it may think necessary, requiring such parties to
show cause, within a time to be specified, why the agreement
should not be filed. The application shall be written on a
stamp paper of one-fourth of the value prescribed for plaints
in suits, and shall be numbered and registered as a suit
between some or one of the parties interested or  to
be interested as plaintifffs or plaintifff, and the others or other
of them as defendants or defendant, if the application have
been presented by all the parties, or, if otherwise, between
the applicant as plaintifff, and the other parties as defendants.
If no suilicient cause be shown against the agreement, the
agreement shall be filed and an order of reference to arbitration shall be made thereon. The several provisions of this
chapter, so far as they are not inconsistent with the terms of

any agreement so filed, shall be applicable to all proceedings
under an order of reference made by the Court, and to the

award of arbitration and to the enforcement of such award.

327. When any matter has been referred to arbitration
without the intervention of any Court of Justice, and an award
has been made, any person interested in the award may, within
six months from the date of the award, make application

to the Court having jurisdiction in the matter to which the
award relates, that the award be filed in Court. The Court

shall direct notice to be given to the parties to the arbitration
other than the applicant, requiring such parties to show
cause, within a time to be specified, why the award should
not be filed. The application shall be written on the stamp
paper required for petitions to the Court where a stamp is
required for petitions by any law for the time being in force,
and shall be numbered and registered as a suit between the
applicant as plaintifff and the other parties as defendants. If

no sullicient cause be shown  the award, the award
shall be filed, and may be enforced as an award made under
the provisions of this chapter.

CHAPTER VII.

OF PROCEEDINGS ON AGREEMENT OF PARTIES.

BOW QUESTIONS MAY BE RAISED FOR THE DECISION OF A
CIVIL COURT BY ANY PERSONS INTERESTED.

328. PARTIES interested or claiming to be interested in the
decision of any question of fact or law, may enter into an
agreement, which shall be subject to the same stamp duty as
prescribed for plaints in suits, that upon the  of a
Court in the aillrmative or negative of such question of fact
or law, a sum of money fixed by the parties, or to be determined by the Court, shall be paid by one of the parties to
the other of them; or that some property, moveable or immoveable, specified in the agreement, shall be delivered by
one of the parties to the other of them; or that one or more
of the parties shall do or perform some particular legal act,
or shall refrain from doing or performing some particular
act speciiied in the agreement. Where the agreement is for
the delivery of some property moveable or immoveable, or
for the doing or performing, or the refraining to do or perform any particular act, the estimated value of the property
to be delivered, or to which the act specified may have reference, shall be stated in the agreement.

329. The agreement may be filed in any Court having
jurisdiction in the matter, and, when so filed, shall be numbered and registered as a suit between some or one of the
parties interested or claiming to be interested as plaintiEs or
plaintiH, and the others or other of them as defendants or
defendant; and notice shall be given to all the parties to the
agreement other than the party or parties by whom it was
presented. ‘

330. After the agreement shall have been filed, all the
parties to it shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the Court,
and shall be bound by the statements contained therein.

331. The case shall be set down for hearing as an ordinary
suit; and if the Court shall be satisfied, after an examination of the parties or their pleaders, or taking such evidence
as it niay deem proper, that the agreement was duly executed by the parties, and that they have a bond jide interest
in the question of fact or law stated therein, and that the
same is fitto be tried or decided, it shall proceed to record
and try, or hear the same, and deliver its  or opinion
thereon, in the same way as in an ordinary suit; and shall,
upon its finding or deciding upon the question of fact or law,
give judgment for the sum fixed by the parties, or so ascertained as aforesaid, or otherwise, according to the terms of the
agreement, and upon the judgment which shall be so given,
decree shall follow and may be executed in the same way as
if the judgment had been pronounced in a contested suit.

CHAPTER VIII.

OF APPEALS.

332. EXCEPT when otherwise expressly provided in this or
any other Regulation or Act for the time being in force, an
appeal shall lie from the decrees of the Courts of original
jurisdiction to the Courts authorized to hear appeals from the
decisions of those Courts. If the appeal lie to the Sudder

Court it shall be heard and determined by a Court consisting
of three or more Judges of that Court.

HOW APPEALS ARE TO BE PREFERRED. '

333. Appeals shall be made in the form of a memorandum
which shall be presented in the Appellate Court within the
period hereinafter specified, unless the appellant shall show
sufiicient cause to the satisfaction of the Appellate Court for
not having presented it within such limited period; that is
tosay, withinthirtydaysiftheappealbetoaDistrictCourt,
and within ninety days if the appeal be to the Sudder Court.
The days shall be reckoned from and exclusive of the day on
which judgment was pronounced, and also exclusive of such
time as may be requisite for obtaining a copy of the decree

appealed against.

334. The memorandum of appeal shall set forth concisely,
and under distinct heads, the grounds of objection to the
decision appealed against, without any argument or narrative,
and such grounds shall be numbered consecutively. The
appellant shall not, without the leave of the Court, urge or

be heard in support of any other ground of objection, but the

Court in deciding the appeal shall not be confined to the
grounds set forth by the appellant.

335. The memorandum of appeal shall be in the following
form, or to the fohowing efect, and shall be accompanied by

a copy of the decree appealed against :—

Memorawzdum of Appeal.
(Name, &c., as in Register.) Plaintidi
(Name, &c., as in  Defendant.

[Name of Appellant] Plaintiff [or Defendant] above-named
appeals to the Sudder Court at [or Zillah Court
at ,asthecasemaybe],againstthedecreeof

in the above suit, dated the day of ;

for the following reasons, namely, [here state the reasons.]

336. If the memorandum be not drawn up in the manner
hereinbefore prescribed, the Court may reject it, or may
return it to the party for the purpose of being corrected. If
the memorandum be not presented within the prescribed
period, and no suiiicient cause be shown for the delay, the
appeal shall be rejected.

337. If there be two or more plaintifffs, or two or more
defendants in a suit, and the decision of the Lower Court
proceed on any ground common to all, any one of the plaintifffs or defendants may appeal against the whole decree, and
the Appellate Court may reverse or modify the decree in
favour of all the plaintiffs or defendants.

OF BTAYING AND EXECUTING DEGREES UNDER APPEAL

338. Execution of a decree shall not be stayed by reason
only of an appeal having been preferred against such decree;
but the Appellate Court may, for suliicient cause shown,
order that execution be stayed If application for execution
be made before the time allowed for appeal has expired, and
the Lower Court has not received intimation of an appeal
having been preferred, the Lower Court, if sufficient cause
be shown, may stay the execution. Before making an order

to stay execution, the Court making the order shall require

security to be given by the party  whom the decree
was passed for the due performance of the decree or order of
the Appellate Court.

339. When an order is made for the execution of a decree
against which an appeal has been preferred, it shall be lawful
for the Court which pronounced the decree to require security
to be given for the restitution of any property which may be
taken in execution of the decree or of the value thereof, and
for the due performance of the decree or order of the Appellate
Court.

340. In suits instituted or defended under the authority
and at the expense of Government, no such security as is
mentioned in the last two preceding sections shall in any case
be required from Government or from any Public Oflicer.

OF PROCEDURE IN APPEALS FROM DEGREES.

341. When a memorandum of appeal is presented in the
prescribed form and within the time allowed, the Appellate
Court, or the proper Oflicer of that Court, shall endorse
thereon the date of presentment, and shall register the appeal
in a book to be kept ‘for the purpose, and called the Register
of Appeals. Such Register shall be in the form contained in
the Schedule (C.) hereunto annexed.

342. It shall be in the discretion of the Appellate Court to
demand security for costs from the appellant or not, as it shall
see ~£t, before the respondent is called upon to appear and
answer. Provided that the Court shall demand such security
in all cases in which the appellant is residing out of the
British territories in India, and is not possessed of any land
or other immoveable property within those territories independent of the property to which the appeal relates; and
in the event of such security not being furnished at the time

of presenting the memorandum of appeal, or within such time
as the Court shall order, the Court shall reject the appeal.

343. When the memorandum of appeal has been 
tered, the Appellate Court shall send intimation thereof to
the Lower Court. If the appeal be from a Court the records
of which are not deposited in the Appellate Court, the Lower
Court shall, upon the receipt of the intimation, transmit to
the Appellate Court, with all practicable dispatch, all material
papers in the suit, or such papers as may be specially called
for by the Appellate Court. Either party may give notice
in writing to the Lower Court, specifying any exhibits of
which he requires copies to be made and deposited in the
Lower Court, -and copies of such exhibits shall be prepared
at the expense of the party giving the notice, and shall be
deposited in the Lower Court.

344. A day shall be fixed _by the Appellate Court for
the hearing of the appeal. The day shall be so fixed, with
reference to the place of residence of the respondent and the
time necessary for the service of the notice of appeal, as to
allow the respondent a sufficient time to enable him to appear
in person or by a pleader on such day. '

345. Notice of the day which has been fixed for hearing
the appeal shall be affixed in the Appellate Court, and a like
notice shall be sent by the Appellate Court to the Lower
Court, and shall be served on the respondent in the same way
as hereinbefore 'provided for the service of a summons to a
defendant to appear and answer, and all rules applicable to
such summons and to proceedings with reference to the
service thereof, shall apply to the service of such notice.
The notice to the respondent shall contain an intimation that,
if he does not appear in the Appellate Court on the day so
£xed for the hearing of the appeal, the case will be heard and
decided ea: parte in his absence. Provided that, if the respondent has appointed a pleader to appear in his behalf in

the Appellate Court, the service of the notice on such pleader
shall be sufficient.

346. If on the day fixed for hearing the appeal, or any
other day subsequent thereto to which the hearing of the
appeal may be adjourned, the appellant shall not appear in
person or by a pleader, the appeal shall be dismissed for
default. If the appellant shall appear in person or by a
pleader, and the respondent shall not appear in person or by

a pleader, the appeal shall be heard ea: parte in his absence.

347. If an appeal be dismissed for default of prosecution,
the appellant may, within thirty days from the date of the
dismissal, apply to the Appellate Court for the re-admission
of the appeal; and if it shall be proved to the satisfaction of
the Court that the appellant was prevented by any sullicient
cause from appearing when the appeal was called on for
hearing, the Court may re-admit the appeal.

348. Upon the hearing of the appeal, the respondent may
take any objection to the decision of the Lower Court which
he might have taken if he had preferred a separate appeal

from such decision.

349. The Appellate Court, after hearing the appeal, shall
proceed to give its judgment in the manner hereinbefore
prescribed for  judgment in Courts of original 
diction.

350. The judgment may be for confirming or reversing or
modifying the decree of the Lower Court. But no decree
shall be reversed or modified, nor shall any case be remanded
to the Lower Court, on account of any error, defect, or irregularity, either in the decision or in any interlocutory order
passed in the suit not affecting the merits of the case or the
jurisdiction of the Court.

351. If the Lower" Court shall have  of the case
upon any preliminary point so as to exclude any evidence of
fact which shall appear to the Appellate Court essential to
the rights of the parties, and the decree of the Inwer Court
upon such preliminary point shall be reversed by the decree
in appeal, the Appellate Court may, if it think right, remand
the case, together with a copy of the decree in appeal, to the
Lower Court, with directions to restore the suit to its original
number in the Register, and proceed to investigate the merits
of the case and pass a decree therein.

352. It shall not be competent to the Appellate Court to
remand a case for a second decision by the Lower Court,
except as provided in the last preceding section.

353. When the evidence upon the record of the Lower
Court is sufficient to enable the Appellate Court to pronounce
a satisfactory judgment, the Appellate Court shall finally
determine the case, notwithstanding that the judgment of the
Lower Court has proceeded wholly upon some other ground.

354. If the Lower Court shall have omitted to raise or
try any issue, or to determine any question of fact which
shall appear to the Appellate Court essential to the right
determination of the suit upon the merits, and the evidence
upon the record is not sufficient to enable the Appellate Court
to determine such issue or question of fact, the Appellate
Court may frame an issue or issues for trial by the Lower
Court, and may refer the same to the Lower Court for trial.
Thereupon the Lower Court shall proceed to try such issue or
issues, and shall return to the Appellate Court its finding
thereon, together with the evidence. Such finding and evidence shall become part of the record in the suit; and either
party may, within a time to be fixed by the Appellate Court,
file a memorandum of any objection to the finding; and

after the expiration of the period so fixed, the Appellate
Court shall proceed to determine the appeal.

355. It shall not be competent to the parties in an appeal
to produce additional evidence in the Appellate Court,
whether of exhibits or witnesses; but if it appear that the
Lower Court refused to admit competent evidence, or if the
Appellate Court require any exhibits to be produced or witnesses examined to enable it to pronounce a satisfactory judgment, or for any other substantial cause, the Appellate Court
may allow additional exhibits to be received and any necessary witnesses to be examined, whether such witnesses shall
have been previously examined in the Court below or not;
provided that, whenever additional evidence is admitted by
an Appellate Court, the reasons for the admission» shall be

recorded on the proceedings of such Court.

356. Whenever additional evidence is permitted to be
received, it shall be competent to the Appellate Court to take

‘ such evidence before itself, or to require the Lower or any

other Court or to empower any person to take such evidence,
and to transmit the evidence so taken to the Appellate Court.

It shall also be competent to the Appellate Court to prescribe the manner in which such evidence shall be taken.

357. In all cases where additional evidence is permitted to
be taken, the Appellate Court shall define the point or points
to which the evidence is to be confined, and record the same

on its proceedings.

358. The Appellate Court shall have all the like powers in
regard to the granting of time, adjourning the hearing of the
suit, examining the parties or their pleaders, and awarding
costs, or otherwise, as are hereinbefore contained in regard to
Courts of original jurisdiction.

359. The judgment of the Appellate Court shall be pronounced in open Court. It shall contain the point or points

for determination, the decision thereupon, and the reasons for
the decision, and shall be dated and signed by the Judge or

by the Judges concurring therein at the time of pronouncing
it. The judgment shall be written in the English language;
but if the Judge shall not be able to write an intelligible
judgment in that language, the judgment shall be written in
the vernacular language of the Judge. When the language
in which the judgment is written is not the language in
ordinary use in proceedings before the Court, the judgment
shall be translated into such language, and the translation
shall be signed by the Judge or Judges. A.ny Judge dissenting from the judgment of the Court shall state his opinion in
writing, which shall form part of the record.

360. The decree of the Appellate Court shall bear date
the day on which the judgment was passed. It shall contain
the number of the suit, the names and description of the
parties appellant and respondent, and the memorandum of
appeal, and shall specify clearly the relief granted or other
determination of the appeaL It shall also state the amount
of costs incurred in the appeal, and by what parties and in
what proportions such costs and the costs in the original suit
are to be paid. The decree shall be signed by the Judge or
Judges who passed it, and shall be sealed with the seal of the
Court. If there be a difference of opinion among the Judges
of the Court, it shall not be necessary for any Judge disJ senting from the judgment of the Court to sign the decree,

but the opinion of such Judge shall be recited in the decree.
Certified copies of the decree shall be furnished to the parties

in the same manner as hereinbefore provided in regard to the
decrees of Courts of original jurisdiction.

361. A copy of the decree or other order  of the

, appeal, certified by the Appellate Court or the proper Oiiicer

of such Court, and sealed with the seal of the Court, shall be
transmitted to the Court which passed the first decree in the

suit appealed from, and shall be filed with the original proceedings in the suit, and an entry of the judgment of the

Appellate Court shall be made in the original Register of
the suit.

362. Application for execution of the decree of an Appellate Court shall be made to the Court which passed the first
decree in the suit, and shall be executed by that Court, in
the manner and according to the rules hereinbefore contained
for the execution of original decrees.

APPEALS FROM ORDERS.

363. No appeal shall lie from any order passed in the
course of a suit and relating thereto prior to decree; but if
the decree be appealed against, any error, defect, or irregularity in any such order affecting the merits of the case or the
jurisdiction of the Court, may be set forth as a ground of
objection in the memorandum of appeaL

364. No appeal shall lie from any order passed after
decree and relating to the execution thereof, except as is
hereinbefore expressly provided.

365. All orders as to fines or the levying thereof, or as to
imprisonment under this Act (except when the imprisonment
is in execution of a decree), shall be subject to appeaL

366. When an appeal from any order is allowed, the
period for preferring the appeal and the procedure thereon
shallbeinallrespectsthe sameasinanappealfroma
decree.

CHAPTER IX.

OF APPEALS IN FORMA PAUPERIS.

367. ANY party to a suit who may be unable to pay for the
stamps required for the prosecution of an appeal from the

decision passed therein, may be allowed to appeal as a pauper
from such decision, subject to all the rules contained in the
last preceding chapter and in Chapter V. in so far as they
are applicable.

. 368. The application to be allowed to appeal in for-ma
E pauperis shall be written on a stamp paper of the value of one
rupee if the appeal lie to the District Court, and on a stamp
paper of the value of two rupees if the appeal lie to the
Sudder Court, and shall be presented in the Appellate Court
within the period allowed for the presentation of a memorandum of appeal.

369. The application shall contain the particulars required
to be set forth in the memorandum of appeal, and shall be
drawn up in the like manner. It shall have annexed to it a
Schedule of any moveable or immoveable property belonging
to the applicant, with the estimated value thereof’, and shall

also be accompanied by copies of the judgment and decree
from which the appeal is made.

370. If the Appellate Court, upon a perusal of the application and of the judgment and decree of the Court below,
shall see no reason to think that the decision of that Court is
contrary to law, or to some usage having the force of law, or
is otherwise erroneous or unjust, it shall reject the application. If the application be not rejected upon any of the
grounds above mentioned, inquiry shall be made into the
alleged pauperism of the applicant, and such inquiry may be
conducted either ' by the Appellate Court or by the Court
from whose decision the appeal is made under the orders of
the Appellate Court. Provided that, if the applicant was
allowed to sue in formd  in the Court below, no further inquiry in respect of his pauperism shall be necessary,
unless the Appellate Court shall see special cause to direct
such inquiry. ’ '

371. The order passed by the Appellate Court on an application to be allowed to appeal in formd pauperis, whether for
the admission or rejection of the application, shall be final;
but, if the application be rejected, the Appellate Court may,
if it think proper, allow the applicant a reasonable time for

A preferring an appeal on a stamp of the value prescribed for

appeals from decrees.

CHAPTER X.

OF SPECIAL APPEALS.

372. UNLESS otherwise provided by any law for the time
being in force, a special appeal shall lie to the Sudder Court
from all decisions passed in regular appeal by the Courts
subordinate to the Sudder Court, on the ground of the decision being contrary to some law or usage having the force of
law, or of a substantial error or defect in law in the procedure or investigation of the case which may have produced
error or defect in the decision of the case upon the merits,
and on no other ground.

373. The application for the admission of a special appeal
shall be presented in the Sudder Court within the period
prescribed for the presentation of a memorandum of appeal,
and shall be accompanied by copies of the judgments and
decrees of the Lower Appellate Court and of the Court of
first instance. The application shall be written on a stamp
paper of the value prescribed for regular appeals; but if the
applicant be unable to pay for the stamps required for the
prosecution of the appeal, the Sudder Court may admit him
to appeal as a pauper, subject to all the rules contained in
Chapter IX. in respect to appeals from decrees in formé‘
pauperia in so far as the same may be applicable.

374. The application shall set forth concisely the grounds
of objection to the decision appealed against, without argument or narrative, and such grounds shall be numbered consecutively. The applicant shall not, without the leave of the
Court, be heard in support of any other ground of objection;
but the determination of the Court may be upon any ground

on which a special appeal would lie.

375. If the application be not drawn up in the manner
hereinbefore prescribed, the Court may reject it or may
return it to the party for the purpose of being corrected.
When the application is correctly drawn up, it shall be 
tered in a book to be kept for that purpose, which shall be in
the , form contained in the Schedule (D.) hereunto annexed,
and the case shall proceed in all other respects as a regular
appeal, and shall be subject to all the miles hereinbefore
provided for such appeals, so far as the same may be
applicable.

0 H A P T E R XI.
REVIEW OF JUDGMENT.

376. ANY person considering himself aggrieved by a
decree of a Court of original jurisdiction, from which no
appeal shall have been preferred to a Superior Court——or by
a decree of a District Court in appeal, from which no 
appeal shall have been admitted by the Sudder Court-—or by
a decree of the Sudder Court, from which either no appeal
may have been preferred to Her Majesty in Council, or an
appeal having been preferred, no proceedings in the suit have
been transmitted to Her Majesty in Council—'and who from
the discovery of new matter or evidence which was not
within his knowledge, or could not be adduced by him at the
time when such decree was passed, or from any other good

and suiiicient reason, may be desirous of obtaining a review
of the judgment passed against him—may apply for a review
of judgment by the Court which passed the decree.

377. The application shall be made within ninety days
from the date of the decree, unless the party preferring the

same shall be able to show just and reasonable cause, to the 

satisfaction of the Court, for not having preferred such application within the limited period. If the application be made
within the period ‘above-mentioned, it shall be written on the
stamp paper prescribed for petitions to the Court where a
stamp is required; but, if made after the expiration of that
period, it shall be written on the stamp paper prescribed for
plaints.

378. If the Court shall be of opinion that there are not
any suiiicient grounds for a review, it shall reject the application; but if it shall be of opinion that the review desired is
necessary to correct an evident error or omission, or is otherwise requisite for the ends of justice, the Court shall grant

- the review, and its order in either case, whether for rejecting

the application or granting the review, shall be final. Provided that no review of judgment shall be granted without
previous notice to the opposite party to enable him to appear

and be heard in support of the decree of which a review is
solicited.

379. If the Court to which the application for a review of
its judgment has been presented be a Court consisting of two
or more Judges, whenever the Judge or Judges who may have
passed the decree, or if the decree have been passed by two
or more Judges, when any of such Judges shall continue attached to the Court at the time when the application for a
review is presented, and shall not be precluded by absence or
other cause, for a period of six months after the application,
from considering the judgment to which the application refers,

it shall not be competent to any other Judge or Judges of the
same Court to enter upon a consideration of the merits of the
application, and record an order or opinion thereon.

380. When an application for a review of judgment is
granted, a note thereof shall be made in the Register of Suits
or appeals (as the case may be), and the Court shall give such
order in regard to the re-hearing of the suit as it may deem
proper in the circumstances of the case.

CHAPTER XII.

MISCELLANEOUS.

381. THE Sudder Court shall have power to make and issue
general rules for regulating the practice and proceedings of
the Subordinate Civil Courts, and also to frame forms for
every proceeding in the said Courts for which it shall think
necessary that a form he provided, and for keeping all books,
entries, and accounts to be kept by the oilicers, and from time
to time to alter any such rule or form; provided that such

rules and forms be not inconsistent with the provisions of this V

Act or of any other law in force.

382. Except so far as relates to the examination of witnesses under Commission and to the execution of decrees out
of the jurisdiction of the Courts by which they were pamed,
this Act shall not extend to any suit instituted in any Court
of Judicature established by Royal Charter, or in any Court
for the more easy recovery of small debts and demands in
Calcutta, Madras, and Bombay.

383. Nothing in this Act shall be held to alter or afect the
jurisdiction or procedure in Civil cases of Village Moonsilfs
or Village or District Punchayets, under the provisions of the
Madras Code; or the jurisdiction or procedure of Military

Courts of Request; or the jurisdiction or procedure of a single
officer duly authorized and appointed under the rules in force
in the Presidencies of Fort St. George and Bombay respectively, for the trial of small suits in military bazars at cantonments and stations occupied by the troops of those Presidencies respectively; or by Punchayets in regard to suits
against military persons, according to the rules in force under
the Presidency of Fort St. George.

384. Nothing in this Act shall be held to afect the jurisdiction exercised by certain J agheerdars and other authorities
invested with powers under the provisions of Regulation XD1.
1830 of the Bombay Code (for vesting certain Jagheerdars,
Surinjameedars, and Enamdars with the power of deciding
suits within the boundaries of their respective estates) and Act
XV; of 1840 (for extending Regulations X V. 1827 and XIII.
1830 of the Bombay Code to the Agents of Foreign Sovereigns), or
their procedure in the exercise of such jurisdiction; or to
aifect suits instituted under Regulation XI. 1816 of the Bengal
Code ( for receiving, trying, and deciding claims to the right of
inheritance or succession in certain Tributary estates in Zillah
Cuttaclc), or cases of the nature defined in Regulation XXIX.
1827 (for bringing under the operation of the Regulations the
Bombay Territories in the Dekkan and Khandesh), Regulation
VII. 1830 ( for bringing under the operation of the Regulations
the Territories comprised in the Southern Mahratta Country),
Regulations I. and XVI. 1831 of the Bombay Code ( for extending the jurisdiction of the Agent of Government in the
Delckan and Khandesh and of the Political Agent in the Southern Mahratta Country over suits in which certain privileged
persons are concerned), Act XIX. of 1835 (relating to the jurisdiction and authority of the Assistant to the Agent for Sirdars
in the Deklcan), and Act XIII. of 1842 (to enable the holders
of revenue which has been alienated to them by the state to collect
that revenue within the Presidency of Bombay), except that

such suits and cases and the regular and special appeals to
the Civil Courts allowed therein, shall be received, heard, and
determined under the rules laid down in this Act, unlem
where those rules are inconsistent with any specific provisions

contained in theRegulations and Acts above quoted.

385. This Act shall not take effect in any part of the territories not subject to ‘the general Regulations of Bengal,
Madras, and Bombay, until the same shall be extended thereto
by the Governor General of India in Council, or by the Local
Government to which such territory is subordinate, and notiiied
in the Gazette. ' n

386. The following words and expressions in this Act shall
have the meanings hereby assigned to them, unless there be
something in the subject or context repugnant to such construction (that is to say) :—

\Vords importing the singular number shall include the
plural number, and words importing the plural number shall
include the singular number.

Words importing the masculine gender shall include
females.

The local jurisdiction of a Principal Civil Court of original
jurisdiction shall be deemed a district for the purposes of this
Act; and the words “ District Court” shall mean such Court.

In any part of the British territories in India to which this
Act may be extended under the provisions of Section 385, the
expression “ Sudder Court ” shall be deemed to include the
highest Civil Court of Appeal in such part of the said territories.

387. This Act shall come into operation in the Presidency
of Bengal from the 1st day of July 1859, and in the Presidencies of Madras and Bombay from the 1st day of January
1860, or from such earlier day as the Local Government in
those‘ Presidencies respectively shall fix, and shall publicly


