AN ACT to regulate proceedings in Civil Cases, in the Courts of
Justice of this State.

Passed April 29, 1851.

77:5th of the State of California, represented in Senate and
Assembly, do enact as follows :

T I T L E 1.
0f the Form of Civil Actions, and of the Parties thereto.

§ 1. There shall be in this State but one form of Civil Action, for
the enforcement or protection of private right, and the redress or prevention of private wrongs.

§2. In such action the party complaining shall be known as the
plaintifff, and the adverse party as the defendant.

§ 3. When a question of fact not put in issue by the pleadings is to
be tried by a jury, an order for the trial may be made, stating distinctly
and plainly the question of fact to be tried; and such order shall be the
only authority necessary «for a trial.

§ 4. Every action shall be prosecuted in the name of the real party
in interest, except as otherwise provided in this Act.

§ 5. In the case of an assignment of a thing in action, the action by
the assignee shall be without prejudice to any set-off or other defense,
existing at the time of, or before. notice of, the assignment; but this
section shall not apply to a negotiable promissory note, or bill of exchange,
transferred in good faith, and upon good consideration before due.

§ 6. An executor or administrator, a trustee of an express trust, or a
person expressly authorized by statute, may sue without joining with '
him the persons for whose benefit the action is prosecuted.

§77. When a married woman is a party, her husband shall be joined
with her; except that,

let. When the action concerns her separate property, she may
sue alone :

2d. When the action is between herself and her husband, she
may sue or be sued alone.

§ 8. If a husband and wife be sued together, the wife may defend
for her own right.

§9. When an infant is a party he shall appear by guardian, who
may be appointed by the Court in which the action is prosecuted, or by
a Judge thereof, or a County Judge.

§ 10. The guardian shall be appointed as follows :

let. When the infant is plaintifff, upon the application of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years; or if under that age, upon
the application of 'a relative or friend of the infant:

2d. When the infant is defendant, upon the application of the
infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, and apply within ten days
aRer the service of the summons: if he be under the age of fourteen,
or neglect so to apply, then upon the application of any other party to
the action, or of a relative or friend of the infant. .

§ 11. A father, or in case of his death or desertion of his family, the

mother, may maintain an action for the injury or death of a child; and
a guardian for the injury or death of his ward.

§ 12. All persons having an interest in the subject of the action, and
in obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined as plaintifffs, except
when otherwise provided in this Act. . ‘

§ 13. Any person may be made a defendant, who has or claims an
interest in the controversy, adverse to the plaintifff, or who is a necessary party to a complete determination or settlement of the question
involved therein.

§ 14. Of the parties to the action, those who are united in interest
shall be joined as plaintifffs, or defendants; but if the consent of any
one who should have been joined as plaintifff cannot be obtained, he
may be made a defendant, the reason thereof being stated in the complaint; and when the question is one of a common or general interest,
of many persons, or when the parties are numerous, and it is impracticable to bring them all before the Court, one or more may sue or defend
for the benefit of all.

§ 15. Bersons severally liable upon the same obligation or instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange and promissory notes
and sureties on the same or separate instruments, may all or any of
them be included in the same action, at the option of the plaintifff.

§ 16. An action shall not abate by the death, or other- disability of

a party; 'or by the transfer of any interest therein, if the cause of
action survive or continue. In case of the death, or other disability of
a party, the Court, on motion, may allow the action to be continued by
or against his representative or successor in interest. In case of any
other transfer of interest, the action may be continued in the name of
the original party; or the Court may allow the person to whom the
transfer is made, to be substituted in the action.

§ 17. The Court may determine any controversy between parties
before it, when it can be done without prejudice to the rights of others,
or by saving their rights; but when a complete determination of the
controversy cannot be had without the presence of other parties, the
Court shall order them to be brought in.

T I T L E I I .
0f the Place of Trial of Civil Actions.
§ 18. Actions for the following causes shall be tried in the county in
which the subject of the action, or some part thereof, is situated, subject to the power of the court to change the place of trial, as provided
in this Act:
lst. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate, or interest therein, or for the determination, in any form,- of such right or
interest, and for injuries to real property :
2d. For the partition of real property:
3d. For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property. ,
§ 19. Actions for the following causes shall be tried in the county
where the cause, or some part thereof, arose, subject to the like power
of the Court to change the place of trial :
lst. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by
statute ; except, that when it is imposed for an offense committed on a
lake, river, or other stream of water, situated in two or more counties,
the actionmay be brought in any county bordering on such lake, river,
or stream, and opposite to the place where the offense was committed :
2d. Against a public officer or person especially appointed to
execute his duties, for an act done by him in virtue of his odice, or
against a person who, by his command, or in his aid, does. anything
touching the duties of such odicer.
§ 20. In all other cases, the action shall be tried in the county in
which the parties, or some of them, reside at the commencement of the .
action; or if none of the parties reside in the State, the same may be
tried in any county which the plaintifff may designate in his complaint:
subject, however, to the power of the court to change the place of trial,
as provided in this act.
§ 21. The Court may, on motion, change the place of trial in the l
following cases : ‘
lst. When the county designated in the complaint is not the
proper county. '

2d. When there is reason to believe that an impartial trial cannot
be had therein :

3d. When the convenience of witnesses and the ends of justice
would be promoted by the change :

4th. When from any cause the Judge is disqualified from acting
in the action.

T I T L E - I I I .
0f the Manner of Commencing Civil Actions.

§ 22. Civil actions in the District Courts, Superior Court of the
City of San Francisco, and the County Courts, shall be commenced by
the filing of a complaint with the Clerk of the Court in which the action
is brought, and the issuance of a summons thereon.
-. § 23. The Clerk shall endorse on the complaint the day, month, and
year the same is filed; and at any time after the filing, the plaintifff may
havea summons issued. The summons shall be signed by the Clerk,
and directed to the defendant, and be issued under the Seal of the Court.
§ 24. The summons shall state generally the nature of the action;
the parties thereto; the Court in which it is brought; the County in
which the complaint is filed; and require the defendant to appear and
answer the complaint within the time mentioned in the next sectjon,
after the service of summons, exclusive of the day of service; or that
judgment, by default, will be taken against him.
§ 25. The time in which the summons shall require the defendant to
answer the complaint, shall be as follows: .
1st. If the defendant is served within the County in which the
action is brought, ten days:
2d. If the defendant is served out of the County, but in the
District in which the action is brought, twenty days:
3d. In all other cases, forty days.
§ 26. There shall also be inserted in the summons 9. notice, in substance, as follows:
lst. In an action arising on contract for the recovery only of
money or damages, that the plaintifff will take judgment for a sum specified therein, if the defendant fail to answer the complaint:
2d. In other actions, that if the defendant fail to answer the
complaint, the plaintifff will apply to the Court for the relief demanded
therein.
§ 27. In an action affecting the title to real property, the plaintifff at
the time of filing the complaint, or at any time afterwards, may file with
the Recorder of the county in which the property is situated, a notice of
the pendency of the action, containing the names of the parties, the
object of the action, and a description of the property in that county
affected thereby. From the time of filing only, shall the pendency of
the action be constructive notice to a purchaser or incumbranoer of the
property affected thereby.

§ 28. The summons shall be served by the Sheriff of the county
where the defendant is found, or by his deputy, or by a person specially
appointed by him, or appointed by a Judge of the Court in which the
action is brought. A copy of the complaint, certified by the clerk, shall
be served with the summons. The summons shall be returned with the
certificate or affidavit of the officer, of its service, and of the service of the
copy of the complaint, to the office of the clerk from which the summons
issued.
§ 29. The summons shall be served by delivering a copy thereof
attached to the certified copy of the complaint, as follows:
lst. If the suit be against a corporation, to the president or other
head of the corporation, secretary, cashier, or managing agent thereof:
2d. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years, to such
minor personally, and also to his father, mother, or guardian; or if there
be none within the State, then to any person having the care and
control of such minor, or with whom he resides, or in whose service he
is employed:
3d. If against a person judicially declared to be of unsound
mind, or incapable of conducting his own affairs, and for whom a guardian has been appointed, to such guardian :
4th. In all other cases, to the defendant personally.
§ 30. When the person on whom the service is to be made, resides
out of the State, or has departed from the State; or cannot, after due
diligence, be found within the State; or conceals himself to avoid the!
service of summons, and the fact shall appear by atiidavit to the satisfaction of the Court, or a Judge thereof, or a county Judge, and it shall
in like manner appear, that a cause of action exists against the defendant in respect to whom the service is to be made, or that he is a necessary or proper party to the action, such Court or Judge may grant an
order that the service be made by the publication of the summons.
§ 31. The order shall direct the publication to be made in a news-'
paper to be designated, as most likely to give notice to the person to be
served, and for such length of time as may be deemed reasonable, at
least once a week: Provided, that publication against a defendant
residing out of the State, or absent therefrom, shall not be less than
three months. In case of publication where the residence of a nonresident or absent defendant is known, the Court or Judge shall also
direct a copy of the summons and complaint to be forthwith deposited in
the Post oilice, directed to the person to be served, at his place of residence. When publication is ordered, personal service of a copy of the
summons and complaint, out of the State, shall be equivalent to publication and deposit in the Post office. In either case, the service of the
summons shall be deemed complete at the expiration of the time prescribed by the order for publication. In actions upon contracts for the
direct payment of money, the Court in its" discretion may, instead of
ordering publication, or may, after publication, appoint an Attorney to

appear for the non-resident, absent, or concealed defendant, and conduct
the proceedings on his part.
§ 32. Where the action is against two or more defendants, and the
summons is served on one or more, but not on all of them, the plaintid'
’ may proceed as follows:
lst. If the action be against the defendants jointly indebted upon
a contract, he may proceed against the defendant served, unless the
Court otherwise direct; and if he recover judgment, it may be entered
against all the defendants thus jointly indebted, so far only as that it may
be enforced against the joint property of all, and the separate property
of the defendant served; or, 2d. If the action be against defendants severally liable, be may
proceed against the defendants served, in the same manner as if they
were the only defendants.
§ 83. Proof of the service of the summons shall be as follows:
lst. If served by the Sheriff or his deputy, the atiidavit or certificate of such Sheriff or deputy; or,
2d. If by any other person, his afIidavit thereof; or,
3d. In case of publication, the affidavit of the printer, or his foreman, or principal clerk, showing the same; and an atiidavit of a deposit
of a copy of the summons in the Post oHice, if the same shall have been
deposited ; or, . . _ ‘
4th. The written admission of the defendant.
§ 34. In case of service otherwise than by publication, the certificate
or affidavit shall state the time and place of the service.
§ 35. From the time of the service of the summons and copy of complaint in a civil action, the Court shall be deemed to have acquired jurisdiction, and to have control of all the subsequent proceedings. A
voluntary appearance of a defendant shall be equivalent to personal
service of the summons upon him.

T I T L E I V . .
0f the Pleadings in Civil Actions.

§ 36. The pleadings are the formal allegations by the parties of their
respective claims and defenses, for the judgment of the Court.

§ 37. All the forms of pleadings in civil actions, and the rules by which
the sudiciency of the pleadings shall be determined, shall be those prescribed in this act.

§38. The only pleading on the part of the plaintifff shall be the
complaint or demurrer to defendant’s answer, and the only pleading on
the part of the defendant shall be the demurrer, or the answer.

§ 39. The complaint shall contain :

lst. The title of the action, specifying the name of the court and

the name of the county in which the action is brought, and the names of
the parties to the action, plaintifff and defendant:

2d. A statement of the facts constituting the cause of action in
ordinary and concise language :
3d. A demand of the'relief which the plaintifff claims. If the
recovery of money, or damages be demanded, the amount thereof shall
be stated. ‘ '
' § 40. The defendant may demur to the complaint within the time I).
required in the. summons to answer, when it appears upon the face 0
thereof, either: a
1st. That the Court has no jurisdiction of the person of the
defendant, or the subject of the action; or, '
2d. That the plaintifff has not legal capacity to sue; or,
3d. That there is another action pending between the same parties for the same cause; or,
4th. That there is a defect of parties, plaintifff or defendant; or,
5th. That several causes of action have been improperly
united: or,
, 6th. That the complaint does not state facts-sudicient to constitute a cause of action.
§ 41,. The demurrer shall distinctly specify the grounds upon which :
any of the objections to the complaint are taken. Unless it do so, it
may be disregarded. '
§ 42. The defendant may demur to the whole complaint, or to one 1
or more of several causes of action stated therein, and answer the '
residue ; or may demur and answer at the same time.
- § 43. If the complaint be amended, the amendments shall be filed, 4
and a copy served upon ~the defendant, or his attorney, if he has ap.
peared by attorney, otherwise a new summons shall issue thereon.
§ 44. When any of the matters enumerated in section forty do t

not appear upon the face of the complaint, the objection may be taken ‘
by answer.
§ 45. If no such objection be taken, either by demurrer or answer, ‘
the defendant shall be deemed to have waived the same, excepting only '.
the objection to the jurisdiction of the Court, and the objection that the
complaint does not state facts sudicient to constitute a cause of action.
§ 46. The answer of the defendant shall contain :
lst. In respect to each allegation of the complaint controverted
by the defendant, a general or specific denial thereof, or a denial thereof
according to his information and belief, or of any knowledge thereof
sufficient to form a belief:
2d. A statement of any new matter, constituting a defense or
counterclaim, in ordinary and concise language.
§ 47. The counterclaim mentioned in the last section shall be one
existing in favor of the defendant, and against a plaintiff}; between whom
a several judgment might be had in the action, and-arising out of one

of the following causes of action:
let. A cause of action arising out of the transaction set forth in

the complaint as the foundation of the plaintifff ’3 claim, or connected
with the subject of the action:
2d. In an action arising upon contract, any other cause of action

arising also upon contract, and existing at the commencement of the
action.

§ 48. When cross demands have existed between persons, under such
circumstances, that if one had brought an action against the other, a
counterclaim could have been set up, neither shall be deprived of the
benefit thereof, by the assignment or death of the other; but the
two demands be deemed compensated, so far as they equal each
other.

§ 49. The defendant may set forth by answer as manydefenses and
counterclaims as he may have. They shall each be separately stated,
and the several defenses shall refer to the causes of action which they
are intended to answer, in a manner by which they may be intelligibly
distinguished.

§ 50. Sham answers and defenses may be stricken out, on motion.

§ 51. Every pleading shall be subscribed by the party, or his attorney, and when the complaint is verified by affidavit, the answer shall be
verified also, except as provided in the next section.

§ 52. The verification of the answer required in the last section may
be omitted when an admission of the truth of the complaint might subject the party to prosecution for felony.

§ 53. When an action is brought upon a written instrument, and the
complaint contained a copy of such instrument, or a copy is annexed
thereto, the genuineness and due execution of such instrument shall be
deemed admitted, unless the answer denying the same be verified.

§ 54. When the defense to an action is founded upon a written instrument, and a copy thereof is contained in the answer, or a copy is
annexed thereto, the genuineness and due execution of such instrument
shall be deemed admitted, unless the plaintifff file with the Clerk five
days previous to the commencement of the term at which the action is
to be tried an affidavit denying the same.

§ 55. In all cases of the verification of a pleading, the affidavit of the
party shall state that the same is true of his own knowledge, except as
to the matters which are therein stated on his information or belief, and as
to those matters, that he believes it.to be true. And where a pleading
is verified, it shall be by the affidavit of the party, unless he be absent
from the county where the Attorney resides, or from some cause unable
to verify it, or the facts are within the knowledge of his Attorney, or
other person verifying the same. When the pleading is verified by the
Attorney, or any other person except the party, he shall set forth in the
affidavit the reasons why it is not made by the party. When a corporation is a party, the verification may be made by any ofIicer thereof; or
when the State, or any oilicer thereof in its behalf, is a party, the verification may be made by any person acquainted with the facts, except that

in actions prosecuted by the Attorney General in behalf of the State
the pleadings need not, in any case, be verified.

§ 56. It shall not be necessary for a party to set forth in a pleading
the items of an account therein alleged, but he shall deliver to the adverse party, within five days after a demand thereof in writing, a copy
of the account, or be precluded from giving evidence thereof. The
Court, or a Judge thereof, or a County Judge, may order a further
account, when the one delivered is too general, or is defective in any
particular.

§ 57. If irrelevant or redundant matter be inserted in a pleading, it
may be stricken out by the Court on motion of any person aggrieved
thereby.

§ 58. In an action for the recovery of real property, such property
shall be described, with its metes and bounds, in the complaint.

§ 59. In pleading a judgment or other determination of a Court or
Oflicer of especial jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary to state the
facts conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment or determination may
be stated to have been duly given or made. If such allegation be controverted, the party pleading shall be bound to establish on the trial the
facts conferring jurisdiction.

§ 60. In pleading the performance of conditions precedent in a contract, it shall not be necessary to state the facts showing such performance; but it may be stated generally that the party duly performed
all the conditions on his part; and if such allegation be controverted,
the party pleading, shall establish, on the trial, the facts showing such
performance.

§ 61. In pleading a private Statute, or a right derived therefrom, it
shall be sufficient to refer to such Statute by its title and the day of
its passage, and the Court shall thereupon take judicial notice
thereof.

§ 62. In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be necessary to
state in the complaint any extrinsic facts for the purpose of showing the
application to the plaintifff of the defamatory matter out of which the
cause of action arose; but it shall be stitiicient to state generally, that
the same was published or spoken concerning the plaintifff, and if such
allegation be controverted, the plaintifff shall establish on the trial that
it was so published or spoken.

§ 63. In the actions mentioned in the last section, the defendant may, ‘
in his answer, allege both the truth of the matter charged as defamatory and any mitigating circumstances to reduce the amount of damages; and whether he prove the justification or not, he may give in
evidence the mitigating circumstances.

§ 64. The plaintifff may unite several causes of action in the same
complaint, when they all arise out of :

lst. Contracts, express or implied; or,
2d. Claims to recover specific real property, with or without

damages, for the withholding thereof, or for waste committed thereon,
and the rents and profits of the same; or,
3d. Claims to recover specific personal property, with or without
damages, for the withholding thereof; or,
4th. Claims against a trustee, by virtue of a contract, or by

operation of law; or,

5th. Injuries to character; or,

6th. Injuries to person; or,

7th. Injuries to property. But the causes of action so united shall
all belong to one only of these classes, and shall affect all the parties to
the action, and not require different places of trial, and shall be separately stated.

§ 65. Every material allegation of the complaint, not specincally
controverted by the answer, shall, for the purposes of the action, be taken
as true. But the allegation of new matter in the answer shall be
deemed controverted by the adverse party, as upon a direct denial, or
avoidance, as the case may require.

§ 66. A material allegation in a pleading is one essential to the
claim, or defense, and which could not be stricken from the pleading
without leaving it insufficient.

§ 67. After the decision of a demurrer, and on the payment of the
costs of the same, the defendant may answer.

§ 68. The Court may, in furtherance of justice and on such terms
as may be proper, amend any pleading or proceeding, by adding or
striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the
name of a party or a mistake in any other respect. The Court may:
likewise, upon aHidavit showing good cause therefore, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon such terms as may be just, an amendment to
any pleading or proceedihg in other particulars; and may, upon like
terms, allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this Act,
or by an order enlarge such time ; and may, upon such terms as may
be just, and upon payment of costs, relieve a party or his legal representatives from a judgment order, or other proceeding, taken against
him through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.
When from any cause, the summons and a copy of the complaint in an
action have not been personally served on the defendant, the Court may
allow, on such terms as may be just, such defendant or his legal representatives, at any time within six months after the rendition of any
judgment in such action, to answer to the merits of the original action.

§ 69. When the plaintifff is ignorant of the name of a defendant,
such defendant may be designated in any pleading or proceeding by
any name; and when his true name is discovered, the pleading or proceeding may be amended accordingly.

§ 7 O. In the construction of a pleading for the purpose of determining its effects, its allegations shall be liberally construed, with a view to
substantial justice between the parties.

§ 7]. The Court shall, in every stage of an action, disregard any 1
error or defect in the pleadings, or proceedings, which shall not affect r
the substantial rights of the parties; and no judgment shall be reversed
or affected by reason of such error or defect.

_ TITLE v.
0f the Provisional Remedies in can Actions.

CHAPTER I.

ARREST AND BAIL.

§ 7 2. No person shall be arrested in a civil action, except as prescribed :
by this Act.
§ 73. The defendant may be arrested as hereinafter prescribed, in the '1
following cases arising after the passage of this Act:
lst. In an action for the recovery of money or damages on a
cause of action arising upon contract express or implied, when the de—
fendant is about to start from the State, with intent to defraud his credi—
tom, or where or when the action is for willful injury to person, to
character, or to property, knowing the property to belong to another:
2d. In an action for a fine or penalty, or for money or property
embezzled, or fraudulently misapplied, or converted to his own use, by a
public officer; or an odicer of a corporation, or an attorney, factor,
broker, agent, or clerk, in the course of his employment as such ; or by
any other person in a fiduciary capacity, or for misconduct or neglect in
odioe, or in a professional employment; or for a willful violation of duty:
3d. In an action to recover the possession of personal property,
unjustly detained, when the property, or any part thereof, has been
concealed, removed, or disposed of, so that it cannot be found, or taken
by the Sheriff.
4th. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in contracting the debt, or incurring the obligation, for which the action is brought;
or in concealing, or disposing of the property, for the taking, detention,
or conversion of which the action is brought:
5th. When the defendant has removed or disposed of his property, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his creditors.
§ 74. An order for the arrest of the defendant shall be obtained
from a Judge of the Court injwhich the action is brought, or from a
County Judge.
§ 75. The order may be made whenever it shall appear to the Judge
by the affidavit of the plaintifff, or some other person, that a sudicient
cause of action exists; and that the case is one of those mentioned in
section seventy-three. The affidavit shall be either positive, or upon
information and belief; and when upon information and belief, it shall
state the facts upon which the information and belief are founded. If
an order of arrest be made, the affidavit shall be filed with the Clerk of
the County.

§ 76. Before making the order, the Judge shall require a written
undertaking on the part of the plaintid', with sureties, to the effect that
if the defendant recover judgment, the plaintifff will pay all costs and
charges that may be awarded to the defendant, and all damages which

he may sustain by reason of the arrest, not exceeding the sum specifled
in the undertaking, which shall be at least five hundred dollars. Each
of the sureties shall annex to the undertaking an athdavit that he is a
resident and householder, or freeholder, within the State, and worth
double the sum specified in the undertaking, over and above all his debts
and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution. The undertaking shall be filed with the Clerk of the Court.

§ 77. The order may be made to accompany the summons, or any
time afterwards before judgment. It shall require the Sheriff of the
County where the defendant may be found forthwith to arrest him and
hold him to bail in a specified sum, and to return the order at a time
therein mentioned to the Clerk of the Court in which the action is
pending.

§ 78. The order of arrest, with a copy of the allidavit upon which it
is made, shall be delivered to the Sheriff, who, upon arresting the defendant, shall deliver to him the copy of,the affidavit; and also, if desired,

a copy of the order of arrest.
§ 79. The Sheriff shall execute the order by arresting the defendant

and keeping him in custody until discharged by law.

§ 80. The defendant, at any time before execution, shall be discharged
from the arrest either upon giving bail, or upon depositing the amount
mentioned in the order of arrest, as provided in this chapter.

§ 81. The defendant may give bail, bycausing a written undertaking
to be executed by two or more sufficient sureties, stating their places of
residence and occupations, to the effect that they are bound in the amount
mentioned in the order of arrest; that the defendant shall at all times
render himself amenable to the process of the Court, during the pendency
of the action, and to such as may be issued to enforce the judgment
therein; or that they will pay to the plaintifff the amount of any judgment which may be recovered in the action.

§ 82. At any time before judgment, or within ten days thereafter,
the bail may surrender the defendant in their exoneration: or he may
surrender himself to the Sheriff of the County where he was arrested.

§ 83. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the bail at any
time or place before they are finally charged, may themselves arrest
him; or by a written authority, endorsed on a certified copy of the undertaking, may empower the Sheriff to do so. Upon the arrest of the
defendant by the Sheriff, or upon his delivery to the Sheriff by the bail,
or upon his own surrender, the bail shall be exonerated: Provided, Such
arrest, delivery, or surrender, take place before the expiration of ten
days after judgment; but if such arrest, delivery, or surrender, be not
made within ten days after judgment, the bail shall be finally charged on

their undertaking, and be bound to pay the amount of the judgment,
within ten days thereafter.

§ 84. If the bail neglect or refuse to pay the judgment within ten
days aher they are finally charged, judgment against such bail for the
amount of such original judgment, may be, by order of the Court, upon
atiidavit of such neglect or refusal, entered against the bail.

§ 85. The bail shall also be exonerated by the death of the defendant,
or his imprisonment in a State Prison; or by his legal disdiarge from
the obligation to render himself amenable to the process.

§ 86. Within the time limited for that purpose, the Sheriff shall file
the order of arrest in the otfice of the Clerk of the Court in which the
action is pending, with his return endorsed thereon, together with a copy
of the undertaking of the bail. The original undertaking he shall retain
in his possession until filed, as herein provided. The plaintiti', within
ten days thereafter, may serve upon the Sherid' a notice that he does
not accept the bail, or he shall be deemed to have accepted them, and
the Sheriff shall be exonerated from liability. If no notice be served
within ten days, the original undertaking shall be filed with the Clerk of
the Court. '

§ 87. Within live days after the receipt of notice, the Sheriff or 1
defendant may give to the plaintifff, or his attorney, notice of the justifi- 1
cation of the same, or other bail, (specifying the places of residence and
occupations of the latter) before a Judge of the Court, or County Judge,
or County Clerk, at a specified time and place; the time to be not less
than five, nor more than ten days thereafter, except by consent of
parties. In case other bail be given, there shall be a new undertaking.

§ 88. The qualifications of bail shall be as follows :

lst. Each of them shall be a resident, and householder, or freeholder, within the County :
2d. Each shall be worth the amount specified in the order of

arrest, or the amount to which the order is reduced, as provided in this
chapter, over and above all his debts and liabilities, exclusive of property
exempt from execution; but the Judge, or County Clerk, on justification,
may allow more than two sureties to justify severally, in amounts less
than that expressed in the order, if the whole justification be equivalent
to that of two sutiicient bail.

§ 89. For the purpose of justification, each of the bail shall attend j
before'the Judge, or County Clerk, at the time and place mentioned in '
the notice, and may be examined on oath, on the part of the plaintifff,
touching his sutiiciency, in such manner as the Judge or County Clerk,
in his discretion, may think proper. The examination shall be reduced
to writing, and subscribed by the bail, if required by the plaintifff.

§ 90. If the Judge, or Clerk, find the bail sutiicient, he shall annex
the examination to the undertaking, endorse his allowance thereon, and
cause them to be filed, and the Sheriff shall thereupon be exonerated
from liability.

§ 91. The defendant may, at the time of his arrest, instead of giving
bail, deposit with the Sheriff the amount mentioned in the order. In
case the amount of the bail be reduced, as provided in this chapter, the
defendant may deposit such amount instead of giving bail. In either
case, the Sheriff shall give the defendant a certificate of the deposit
made, and the defendant shall be discharged out of custody.

§ 92. The Sheriff shall immediately after the deposit pay the same
into Court, and take from the Clerk receiving the same, two certificates
of such payment; the one of which he shall deliver or transmit to the
plaintifff, or his attorney, and the other to the defendant. For any
default in making such payment the same proceedings may be had on
theotiicial bond of the Sheriff, to collect the sum deposited, as in other
cases of delinquency.

§ 93. If money be deposited, as provided in the last two sections, bail
may be given, and may justify upon notice, at any time before judgment; and on the filing of the undertaking and justification with the
Clerk, the money deposited shall be refunded by such Clerk to the
defendant. ‘

§ 94. Where money shall have been deposited, if it remain on
deposit at the time of the recovery of a judgment in favor of the plaintifff,
the Clerk shall, under the direction of the Court, apply the same in
satisfaction thereof; and after satisfying the judgment, shall refund the
surplus, if any, to the defendant. If the judgment be in favor of the
defendant, the Clerk shall, under like direction of the Court, refund to
him the whole sum deposited and remaining unapplied.

§ 95. If, after being arrested, the defendant escape or be rescued, the
Sheriff shall himself be liable as bail; but he may discharge himself
from such liability, by the giving and justification of bail, at any time
before judgment. '

§ 96. If a judgment be recovered against the Sherid’, upon his liability as bail, and an execution thereon be returned unsatisfied in whole or
in part, the same proceedings may be had on his official bond, for the
recovery of the whole or any deficiency, as in other cases of delinquency.

§ 97. A defendant arrested may at any time before the justification
of bail apply to the Judge who made the order, or the Court in which
the action is pending, upon reasonable notice to the plaintifff to vacate
the order of arrest, or to reduce the amount of bail. If the application
be made upon adidan'ts, on the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose the same by affidavits or other proofs, in
addition to those on which the order of arrest was made.

§ 98. If upon such application it shall satisfactorily appear that there
was not sumcient cause for the arrest, the order shall be vacated; or if

it satisfactorily appear that the bail was fixed too high, the amount
shall be reduced.

CHAPTER II.

CLAIMS AND DELIVERY OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.

§ 99. The plaintifff, in an action to recover the possession of personal
property, may, at the time of issuing the summons, or at any time before
answer, claim the delivery of such property to him, as provided in this
chapter. _
§ 100. Where a delivery is claimed, an affidavit shall be made by
the plaintifff, or by some one in his behalf, showing :
lst. That the plaintifff is the owner of the property claimed (particularly describing it), or is lawfully entitled to the possession thereof:
2d. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant:
3d. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, according to his
best knowledge. information, and belief:
4th. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or
fine, pursuant to a Statute; or seized under an execution, or an attachment against the property of the plaintifff; or if so seized, that it is by
Statute exempt from such seizure ; and,
5th. The actual value of the property.
§ 101. A Judge of the Court in which the action is brought, or a
County Judge, shall thereupon, by an endorsement in writing upon the
aEidavit, order the Sheriff of the County where the property claimed
may be, to take the same from the defendant, and deliver it to the plaintifff, upon receiving the undertaking mentioned in the next section.
§ 102. Upon the receipt of the affidavit and order, with a written
undertaking, executed by'two or more sufficient sureties, approved by the
Sherin', to the effect that they are bound in double the value of the property as stated in the affidavit, for the prosecution of the action for the
return of the property to the defendant, if return thereof be adjudged, and
for. the payment to him of such sum as may, for any cause, be recovered
against the plaintid', the Sheriff shall forthwith take the property described
in the affidavit, if it be in the possession of the defendant or his agent,
and retain it in his custody. He shall also, without delay, serve on the
defendant a copy of the affidavit, order, and undertaking, by delivering
the same to him personally, if he can be found, or to his agent, from
whose possession the property is taken; or if neither can be found, by
leaving them at the usual place of abode of either, with some person of
suitable age and discretion ; or if neither have any known place of abode,
by putting them into the nearest Post-oilice directed to the defendant.
§ 103. The defendant may, within two days after the service of a
copy of the affidavit and undertaking, give notice to the Sheriff that he
excepts to the sufliciency of the sureties. If he fails to do so, he shall
be deemed to have waived all objection to them. When the defendant
excepts, the sureties shall justify on notice in like manner as upon bail
on arrest; and the Sheriff shall be responsible for the suthiency of the
sureties until the objection to them is either waived, as above provided,

or until they justify. If the defendant except to the sureties, he cannot
reclaim the property as provided in the next section.

§ 104. At any time before the delivery of the property to the plaintifff, the defendant may, if he do not except to the sureties of the plains
tiff, require the return thereof, upon giving to the Sheriff a written undertaking, executed by two or more suHicient sureties, to the effect that
they are bound in double the value of the property, as stated in the affldavit of the plaintifff, for the delivery thereof to the plaintifff, if such
delivery be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as may,
for any cause, be recovered against the defendant. If a return of the
property be not so required within five days after the taking and service
of notice to the defendant, it shall be delivered to the plaintifff, except as
provided in section 109.

§ 105. The defendant’s sureties, upon notice to the plaintifff of not
less than two or more than five days, shall justify. before a Judge or
County Clerk, in the same manner as upon bail on arrest; and upon
such justification, the Sheriff shall deliver the property to the defendant.
The Sheriff shall be responsible for the defendant’s sureties until they justify, or until the justification is completed or expressly waived, and may
retain the property until that time; if they, or others in their place, fail

to justify at the time and place appointed, he shall deliver the property
to the plaintifff.
, § 106. The qualification of sureties and their justification shall be
such as are prescribed by this Act, in respect to bail upon an order of
arrest.

§ 107. If the property, or any part thereof, be concealed in a building or enclosure, the Sheriff shall publicly demand its delivery; if it be
not delivered, he shall cause the building or enclosure to be broken open,
and take the property into his possession; and if necessary, he may call
to his aid the power of his county.

§ 108. When the Sheriff shall have taken property, as in this chapter
provided, he shall keep it in a secure place, and deliver it to the party
entitled thereto, upon receiving his lawful fees for taking, and his necessary expenses for keeping the same. ‘

§ 109. If the property taken be claimed by any other person than the
defendant or his agent, and such person make affidavit of his title thereto, or right to possession thereof, stating the grounds of such title or
right, and serve the same upon the Sheriff, the Sheriff shall not be bound
to keep the property, or deliver it to the plaintifff, unless the plaintifff, on
demand of him or his agent, indemnify the Sheriff against such claim:
by an undertaking, by two sudicient sureties, accompanied by their
affidavits, that they are each worth double. the value of the prOperty as
specified in the affidavit of the plaintifff, over and above their debts and
liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution, and are freeholders, or householders in the county; and no claim to such property

by any other person than the defendant or his agent, shall be valid
against the Sheriff, unless so made. § 1 10. The Sheriff shall file the order and allidavit, with his proceedings thereon, with the Clerk of the Court in which the action is pending,
within twenty days after taking the property mentioned therein; or if
the Clerk reside in another county, shall mail or forward the same within
that time.

CHAPTER III.

INJUNCTION.

§ 111. An injunction is a writ or order, requiring a person to refrain
from a particular act. The order or writ, may be granted by the Court
in which the action is brought, or by a Judge thereof, or by a County
Judge; and when made by a Judge, may be enforced as the order of
the Court.
§ 112. An injunction may be granted in the following cases :
lst. When it shall appear by the complaint that the plaintiE is
entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief, or any part thereof, consists in restraining the commission or continuance of the act complained
of, either for a limited period or perpetually:
2d. When it shall appear by the complaint or affidavit that the
commission or continuance of some act during the litigation would produce great or irreparable injury to the plaintifff :
3d. When it shall appear during the litigation that the defendant is doing, or threatens, or is about to do, or is procuring or suffering
to be done, some act in violation of the plaintifff ’8 rights, respecting the
subject of the action, and tending to render the judgment ineffectual.
§ 1 l 3. The injunction may be granted at the time of issuing the summons upon the complaint; and at any time afterwards, before judgment,
upon affidavits. The complaint in the one case, and the affidavits in the
other, shall show satisfactorily that sufficient grounds exist therefore. N 0
injunction shall be granted on the complaint, unless it be verified by the
oath of the plaintifff, or some one in his behalf, that he the person making
the oath has read the complaint, or heard the complaint read, and
knows the contents thereof, and the same is true of his own knowledge,
except the matters therein stated on information and belief, and that as
to those matters he believes it to be true. When granted on the complaint, a copy of the complaint and verification attached shall be served
with the injunction; when granted upon affidavit, a copy of the affidavit
shall be served with the injunction.
§ 114. An injunction shall not be allowed alter the defendant has
answered,'unless upon notiée, or upon an order to show cause; but in ‘
such case the defendant may be restrained until the decision of the Court
or Judge granting or refusing the injunction.
§ 115. On granting an injunction, the Court or Judge shall require,
except where the people of the State are a party plaintid', a written

undertaking, on the part of the plaintid', with sufiicient sureties, to the
effect that the plaintifff will pay to the party enjoined such damages, not
exceeding an amount to be specified, as such party may sustain by
reason of the injunction, if the Court finally decide that the plaintifff was
not entitled thereto.

§ 116. If the Court or Judge deem it proper that the defendant, or
any of several defendants, should be heard before granting the injunction,
an order may be made requiring cause to be shown, at a specified time
and place, why the injunction should not be granted; and the defendant
may, in the meantime, be restrained. J

§ 117. An injunction to suspend the general and ordinary business
of a corporation, shall not be granted except by the Court; nor shall
it be granted without due notice of the application therefore to the
proper odicers of the corporation, except when the people of this State
are a party to the proceeding.

§ 118. If an injunction be granted without notice, the defendant at
any time before the trial may apply upon reasonable notice to the
Judge who granted the injunction, or to the Court in which the action
is brought, to dissolve or modfy the same. The application may be
made upon the complaint and the affidavit on which the injunction was
granted, or upon atiidavit on the part of the defendant, with or without the answer. If the application be made upon affidavits on the
part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose the
same by affidavits, or other evidence, in addition to those on which the
injunction was granted.
. § 119. If upon such application it satisfactorily appear that there is
i not sufficient ground for the injunction, it shall be dissolved; or if it

satisfactorily appear that the extent of the injunction is too great, it shall
be modified.

CHAPTER IV.

ATTACHMENT.

§ 120. In an action upon a contract, express or implied, made after
the passage of this Act, for the direct payment of money, which con- ‘
tract is made, or is payable in this State, and is not secured by a
mortgage upon real or personal property, the plaintifff at the time of
issuing the summons, or at any time afterwards, may have the property
of the defendant attached as security for the satisfaction of any judgment that may be recovered, unless the defendant give security to pay
such judgment as hereinafter provided.

§ 121. The Clerk of the Court shall issue the writ of attachment
upon receiving an affidavit, by or on behalf of the plaintifff, which shall
be filed, showing that the defendant is indebted to the plaintifff (specifying the amount of such indebtedness over and above all legal set~otisy
or counterclaims), upon a contract express or implied, for the direct
payment of money, and that such contract was made after the passage

of this Act, and was made, or is payable in this State, and that the
payment of the same has not been secured by any mortgage on real or
personal property. '
§ 122. Before issuing the writ the Clerk shall require a written ‘
undertaking on the part of the plaintifff, in a sum not less than two
hundred dollars, not exceeding the amount claimed by the plaintifff,
with sufficient sureties, to the effect, that if the defendent recover judgment, the plaintid’ will pay all costs that may be awarded to the
defendant, and all damages which he may sustain by reason of the
attachment, not exceeding. the sum specified in the undertaking.
§ 123. The writ shall be directed to the Sheriff of any County in
which property of such defendant may he, and require him to attach
and safely keep all the property of such defendant within his county,
not exempt from execution, or so much thereof as may be suEicient to
satisfy the plaintiE’s demand, the amount of which shall be stated in
conformity with the complaint, unless the defendant give him security
by the undertaking, of at least two sufficient sureties, in an amount
sut’licient to satisfy such demand, besides costs; in which case, to take
such undertaking. Several writs may be issued at the same time, to
the Sheriffs of different Counties.
§ 124. The rights or shares which the defendant may have in the
stock of any corporation or company, together with the interest and
pronts thereon, and all debts due such defendant, and all other property
in this State of such defendant not exempt from execution, may be
attached, and if judgment be recovered, be sold to satisfy the judgment
and execution.
§ 125. The Sheriff to whom the writ is directed and delivered, shall
execute the same without delay, and if the undertaking mentioned in
section 123 be not given, as follows:
1st. Real property shall be attached by leaving a copy of the
writ with the occupant thereof; or if there be no occupant, by posting
a copy in a conspicuous place thereon, and filing a copy, together with
a description of the property attached, with the. Recorder of the
County:
2d. Personal property capable of manual delivery, shall be
attached by taking it into custody:
8d. Stock or shares, or interest in stock or shares, of any corporation or company, shall be attached, by leaving with the President,
or other head of the same, or the Secretary, Cashier, or managing
Agent thereof, a copy of the writ, and a notice stating that the stock or
interest of the defendant is attached in pursuance of such writ:
4th. Debts and credits, and other personal property, not capable
of manual delivery, shall be attached by leaving with the person owing
such debts, or having in his possession, or under his control such credits,
or other personal property, a copy of the writ, and a notice that the
debts owing by him to the defendant, or the credits and other personal

property in his possession, or under his control, belonging to the defendant, are attached in pursuance of such writ. .
§ 126. Upon receiving information in writing from the plaintifff, or
this attorney, that any person has in his possession, or under his control,
any credits or other personal property belonging to the defendant, or is
owing any debt to the defendant, the Sheriff shall serve upon such
person a copy of the writ, and a notice that such credits, or other property
or debts, as the case may be, are attached in pursuance of such writ.
§ 127. All persons having in their possession, or under their control,
any credits or other personal property, belonging to the defendant, or
owing any debts to the defendant at the time of service upon them of
a copy of the writ and notice, as provided in the last two sections, shall
be, unless such property be delivered up or transferred, or such debts
be paid to the Sheriff, liable to the plaintid', for the amount of such
credits, property, or debts, until the attachment be discharged: or any
judgment recovered by him be satisfied.

7 § 128. Any person owing debts to the defendant, or having in his
possession, or under his control, any credits or other personal property
belonging to the defendant, may be required to attend before the Court
or Judge, and be examined on oath respecting the same. The defendant may also be required to attend for the purpose of giving
information respecting his property, and may be examined on oath.
The Court or Judge may, after such examination, order personal property
capable of manual delivery, to be delivered to the Sheriff on such terms
as may be just, having reference to any liens thereon, or claims against
the same, and a memorandum to be given of all other personal property,
containing the amount and description thereof.

§ 129. The Sheriff shall make a full inventory of the property
attached, and return the same with the writ. To enable him to make
such return as to debts and credits attached, he shall request, at the
time of service, the party owing the debt, or having the credit, to
give him a memorandum.stating the amount and description of each ;
and if such memorandum be refused, he shall return the fact of refusal
with the writ. The party refusing to gin the memorandum may be
required to pay the costs of any proceedih taken for the purpose of
obtaining information respecting the amouriGaé and description of such
debt or credit.

§ 130. If any of the property attached ‘be perishable, the Sheriff
shall sell the same in the manner in which such prroperty is sold on
execution. The proceeds, and other property attached by him, shall be
retained by him to answer any judgment that may be recovered in the
actionh unless sooner subjected to execution upon another judgment
recovered previous to the issuing of the attachment. Debts and credits
attached may be collected by him, if the same can be done without

suit. The Sheriti’s receipt shall be a sufficient discharge for the
amount paid.

§ 131. If any personal property attached be claimed by a third
person as his property, the Sheriff may summon a jury of six men to
try the validity of such claim ; and such proceedings shall be had thereon,
with the like effect, as in case of a claim after levy upon execution.

§ 132. If judgment be recovered by the plaintifff, the Sheriff shall
satisfy the same out of the property attached by him which has not
been delivered to the defendant, or a claimant as hereinbefore provided,
or subjected to execution on another judgment recovered previous to the
issuing of the attachment, if it be sutiicient for that purpose:

1st. By paying to the plaintifff the proceeds of all sales of
perishable property sold by him, or of any debts or credits collected by
him, or so much as shall be necessary to satisfy the judgment:
2d. If any balance remain due, and an execution shall have

been issued on the judgment, he shall sell under the execution so much
of the property, real or personal, as may be necessary to satisfy the
balance, if enough for that purpose remain in his hands. Notices of
the sales shall be given, and the sales conducted as in other cases. of
sales on execution. b

§ 133. If after selling all the property attached by him‘remaining in
his hands, and applying the proceeds, together with the proceeds of any
debts or credits collected by him, deducting his fees, to the payment of
the judgment, any balance shall remain due, the Sheriff shall proceed
tocollect such balance as upon an execution in other cases. Whenever
the judgment shall have been paid, the Sheriff, upon reasonable demand,
shall deliver over to the defendant the attached property remaining in
his hands, and any proceeds of the property attached unapplied on the
judgment.

§ 134. If the execution be returned unsatisfied in whole or in part,
the plaintifff may prosecute any undertaking given pursuant to section ‘
123 or section 137, or he may proceed as in other cases upon the return
of an execution.

§ 135. If the defendant recover judgment against the plaintifff any 3
undertaking received in the action, all the proceeds of sales and money I
collected by the Sheriff, and all the property attached remaining in the
Sheriff’s hands, shall be delivered to the defendant or his agent; the
order of attachment shall be discharged, and the property released
therefrom. A

§ 136. Whenever the defendant shall have appeared in the action, 
he may apply, upon reasonable notice to the plaintifff, to the Judge who t
'nsued the attachment, or to the Court, for an order to discharge the 1
same, upon the execution of the undertaking mentioned in the next section; and if the application be granted, all the proceeds of sales and
monies collected by the Sheriff, and all the property attached remaining
in his hands, shall be released from the attachment, and delivered to the
defendant upon the justification of the sureties on the undertaking, if
required by the plaintifff.

§ 137. Upon such application the defendant shall deliver to the
Court or Judge an undertaking executed by at least two sureties, residents and freeholders in the county, to the effect that the sureties will,
on demand, pay to the plaintifff the amount of judgment that may be
recovered against the defendant in the action, not exceeding the sum
specified in the undertaking, which shall be sudicient to satisfy the
amount claimed by the plaintifff in his complaint, and the costs. The
sureties may be required to justify, on application before the Judge or
Court, and the property attached shall not be released from the attachment without their justification, if the same be required.

§ 138. The defendant may also, any time before the time for answering expires, apply on motion, upon reasonable notice to the plaintifff, to
the Judge who made the order, or the Court in which the action is
brought, that the attachment be discharged, on the ground that the
writ was improperly issued.

§ 139. If the motion be made upon affidavits, on the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose the same by affidavits
or other evidence, in addition to those on which the order of attachment
was made.

§ 140. If upon such application it shall satisfactorily appear that the
writ of attachment was improperly issued, it shall be discharged.

§ 141. The Sheriff shall return the writ of attachment with the
summons, if issued at the same time; otherwise, within twenty days
after its receipt, with a certificate of his proceedings endorsed thereon, or
attached thereto. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any
suits already commenced, but so far as such suits may beconcerned, the
Act entitled an .Act to regulate proceedings against debtors by attachment, passed April 22d, 1850, shall be deemed in full force and effect.

‘ ' CHA v.

naposrr IN 0 Car.

§ 142. When it is admitted, by the pleading or examination of a
party, that he has in his possession, or under his control, any money, or
other thing, capable of delivery, which, being the subfect of the litigation,
is held by him as trustee for another party, or which belongs, or is due,
to another party, the Court may order the same, upon motion, to be
deposited in Court, or delivered to such party, upon such conditions as
may be just, subject to the further direction of the Court.

§ 143. \Vhenever, in the exercise of its authority, a Court shall have
ordered the deposit or delivery of money or other thing, and the order
is disobeyed, the Court, besides punishing the disobedience, may make
an order requiring the Sheriff to take the money or thing, and deposit
or deliver it in conformity with the direction of the Court.

f

o TITLE v1.
0f the Trial and Judgment in Civil Actions.

CHAPTER I.
JUDGMENT IN GENERAL.

§ 144. A judgment is the final determination of the rights of the E
parties in the action or proceeding, and may he entered in term or ‘
vacation. ‘

§ 145. Judgment may be given for or against one or more of several ;
plaintifffs, and for or against one or more of several defendants; and it
may, when the justice of the case requires it, determine the ultimate
rights of the parties on each side, as between themselves. ‘

§ 146. In an action against several defendants, the Court may, in its discretion, render judgment against one or more of them, leaving the action
to proceed against the others, whenever a several judgment is proper.

§ 147. The relief granted to the plaintifff, if there be no answer,
shall not exceed that which he shall have demanded in his complaint;
but in any other case, the Court may grant him any relief consistent
with the case made by the complaint, and embraced within the issue.

§ 148. An action may be dismissed, or a judgment of nonsuit
entered, in the following cases:

lst. By the plaintifff himself, at any time before trial, upon the
payment of costs, if a counterclaim has not been made. If a provisional
remedy has been allowed, the undertaking shall thereupon be delivered
by the Clerk to the defendant, who may have his action thereon :

2d. By either party, upon the written consent of the other:

3d. By the Court, when the plaintifff fails to appear on the trial,
and the defendant appears and asks for the dismissal :

4th. By the Court, when upon the trial, and before the final
submission of the case, the plaintifff abandons it:

5th. By the Court, upon motion of the defendant, when upon
the trial the plaintid' fails to prove a sudicient case for the Jury. The
dismissal mentioned in the first two subdivisions, shall be made by an
entry in the Clerk’s Register. Judgment may thereupon be entered
accordingly.

§ 149. In every case, other than those mentioned in thezlast section,

the judgment shall be rendered on the merits}

, CHAPTER II.
JUDGMENT UPON FAILURE 'ro ANSWER.

§ 150. Judgment may be had, if the defendant fail to answer the
complaint, as follows:

lst. In an action arising upon contract for the recovery of money
or damages only, if no answer has been filed with the Clerk of the Court
within the time specified in the summons, or such further time as may

have been granted, the Clerk, upon" application of the plaintiffl; shall

enter the default of the defendant, and immediately thereafter enter
judgment for the amount specified in the summons, including the costs,
against the defendant, or against one or more of several defendants in
the cases provided for in section 32:

2d. In other actions, if no answer has been filed with the Clerk
of the Court within the time specified in the summons, or such further
time as may have been granted, the Clerk shall enter the default of the
defendant; and thereafter the plaintifff may apply at the first or any
subsequent term of the Court for the relief demanded in the complaint.
If the taking of an account, or the proof of any fact, be necessary to
enable the Court to give judgment, or to carry the judgment into
effect, the Court may take the account or hear the proof; or may, in its
discretion, order a reference for that purpose. And where the action is
for the recovery of damages, in whole or in part, the Court may order
the damages to be assessed by a Jury ; or if, to determine the amount
of damages, the examination of a long account be necessary, by a
reference as above provided :

3d. In actions, where the service of the summons was by publication, the plaintiffi; upon the expiration of the time designated in the
order of publication, may, upon proof of the publication, and that no
answer has been filed, apply for judgment; and the Court shall thereupon require proof to be made of the demand mentioned in the complaint: and if the defendant be not a resident of the State, shall require
the plaintifff or his agent to be examined on oath, respecting any payments that have been made to the plaintifff, or to any one for his use, on
account of such demand, and may render judgment for the amount
which he is entitled to recover.

CHAPTER III.

OF ISSUES, AND THE MARKER OF THEIvamPOSHION.

§ 151. An issue arises when a fact or conclusion of law is maintained by the one party, and is controverted by theothsr. Issues are of
two kinds : if!
lst. Of law: and,  _ 
2d. or fact. if?
§ 152. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the complaint, or
to some part thereof. '
§ 153. An issue of fact arises:
lst. Upon a material allegation in the. complaint, controverted
by the answer: or,
2d. Upon new matter in the answer.
§ 154. An issue of law shall be tried by the Court, unless it be
referred, upon consent, as provided in Chapter VL of this Title.
§ 155. An issue of fact shall be tried by a Jury, unless a Jury trial
is waived, or a reference be ordered, as provided in this Act. Where

there are issues both of law and fact to the same complaint, the issues
of law shall be first disposed of. '

§ 156. The Clerk shall enter causes upon the Calendar of the Court, :
according to the date of the issue. Causes once placed on the Calendar ‘
for a general or special term, if not tried or heard at such term, shall
remain upon the Calendar from Court to Court, until finally disposed of.

§ 157. Either party may bring the issue/to trial, or to a hearing, and :
in the absence of the adverse party, unless the Court for good cause i
otherwise direct, may. proceed with his case, and take a dismissal of the
action, or a verdict or judgment, as the case may require.

§ 158. A motion to postpone a trial on the ground of the absence of I
evidence, shall only be made upon affidavit, showing the materiality of l
the evidence expected to be obtained, and that due diligence has been
used to procure it. The Court may also require the moving party to
state, upon affidavit, the evidence which he expects to obtain, and if the
adverse party thereupon admit that such evidence would be given, and
that it be considered as actually given on the trial, or otfered and overruled as improper, the trial shall not be postponed.

CHAPTER IV.

TRIAL BY JURY.

ARTICLE I.
Formation of the Jury.

§ 159. When the action is called for trial by Jury, the Clerk shall .
7 prepare separate ballots containing the names of the Jurors summoned I
who have appeared and not been excused, and deposit them in a box.
He shall then draw from the box twelve names, and the persons whose
names are drawn shall constitute the Jury. If the ballots become
exhausted before the Jury is complete, or if from any cause a Juror or
Jurors be excused or discharged, the Sheriff shall summon, under the
direction of the Court, from the citizens of the county and not from bystanders, so many qualified persons as may be necessary to complete the
Jury. The Jury shall consist of twelve persons, unless the parties consent to a less number. The parties may consent to any number not
less than three. Such consent shall be entered by the Clerk in the
minutes of the trial.

§ 160. As soon as the Jury is completed, an oath or amrmation shall
be administered to the jurors, in substance, that they each of them will
well and truly try the matter in issue between the plaintifff, and
the defendant, and a true verdict render according to the evidence.

§ 161. Either party may challenge the Jurors, but when there are
several parties on either side, they shall join in a challenge before it can
be made. The challenges shall be to individual Jurors, and shall either
be peremptory, or for cause. Each party shall be entitled to four
peremptory challenges.

 

 

§ 162. Challenges for cause may be taken on one or more of the following grounds:

lst. A want of any of the qualifications prescribed by Statute to
render a person competent as a Juror :

2d. Consanguinity or atIinity within the third degree to either
party :

3d. Standing in the relation of guardian and ward, master and servant, employer and clerk, or principal and agent to either party; or
being a member of the family of either party ; or a partner in business
with either party: or being security on any bond or obligation for either
party.

4th. Having served as a Juror or been a witness on a previous trial
between the same parties for the same cause of action :

5th. Interest on the part of the Juror in the event of the action, or in
the main question involved in the action :

6th. Having formed or expressed an unqualitied opinion or belief as
to the merits of the action:

7th. The existence of a state of mind in the Juror evincing enmity

against or bias to either party. '
§ 163. Challenges for cause shall be tried by the Court. The Juror
challenged, and any other person, may be examined as a witness on the

trial of the challenge.

ARTICLE II.
Conduct of the Trial.

§ 164. If, after the empanelling of the Jury, and before verdict, a
Juror become sick, so as to be unable to perform his duty, the Court
may order him to be discharged. In that case the" trial may proceed with the other Jurors, or a new Jury may be sworn, and the trial
begin anew; or the Jury may be discharged, and a new Jury then or
afterwards em paneled. .

§ 165. In charging the Jury the Court shall state to them all matters
of law which it thinks necessary for their information in giving their
verdict; and if it state the testimony of the case, it shall also inform the
Jury that they are the exclusive judges of all questions of fact. The
Court shall furnish to either party, at the time, upon request, a statement in writing of the points of law contained in the charge; or shall
sign, at the time, a statement of such points prepared and submitted by
the Counsel of either party.

§ 166. After hearing the charge, the Jury may either decide in
Court, or retire for deliberation. If they retire, they shall be kept
together in a room provided for them, or some other convenient place,
under the charge of one or more Odicers, until they agree upon their
verdict, or are discharged by the Court. The Otiicer shall, to the
utmost of his ability, keep the Jury together, separate from other persons; he shall not suffer any communication to be made to them,

or make any himself, unless by order of the Court, except to ask them
if they have agreed upon their verdict; and he shall not, before
the verdict is rendered, communicate to any person the state of their deliberations, or the verdict agreed upon. ‘

§ 167. Upon retiring for deliberation the Jury may take with them i
all papers (except depositions), which have been received as evidence in 7
the cause, or copies of such papers as ought not, in the opinion of the 1
Court, to be taken from the person having them in possession : and they
may also take with them notes of the testimony, or other proceedings on
the trial, taken by themselves, or any of them; but none taken by any
other person.

§ 168. After the Jury have retired for deliberation, if there be a dis- 
agreement between them as to any part of the testimony, or if they I
desire to be informed of any point of law arising in the cause, they may
require the Officer to conduct them into Court. Upon their being
brought into Court, the information required shall be given in the presence of, or after notice to, the parties or Counsel.

§ 169. In all cases where a Jury are discharged, or prevented from 
giving a verdict, by reason of accident or other cause, during the I
progress of the trial, or after the cause is submitted to them, the action
may be again tried immediately, or at a future time, as the Court shall
direct.

§ 170. While the Jury are absent, the Court may adjourn, from-1
time to time, in respect to other business; but it shall nevertheless i
be deemed open for every purpose connected with the cause submitted
to the Jury, until a verdict is rendered, or the Jury discharged. The
Court may direct the Jury to bring in a sealed verdict, at the opening :
of the Court, in caseof an agreement during a recess, or adjournment
for the day. A final adjournment. of the Court for the term shall discharge the Jury.

§ 1 71. When the Jury have agreed upon their verdict, they shall be .
conducted into Court by the othcer having them in charge. Their 5
names shall then be called, and they shall be asked by the Court, or the '
Clerk, whether they have agreed upon their verdict; and if the foreman
answer in the adirmative, they shall, on being required, declare the
same.

§ 172. If the verdict be informal, or insutiicient, in not covering the
whole issue or issues submitted, the verdict may be corrected by the
jury, under the advice of the Court, or the jury may be again sent out.

§ 17 3. When the verdict is given, and is not informal or insufficient,
the Clerk shall immediately record it, in full, in the minutes, and shall
read it to the jury, and inquire of them whether it be their verdict. If
any juror disagree, the jury shall be again sent out; but if no disagreement be expressed, the verdict shall be complete, and the jury shall be
discharged from the case.

ARTICLE III.
The Verdict.

§ 174. The verdict of a jury is either general or spwial. A general
verdict is that by which they pronounce generally upon all or any of the
issues, either in favor of the plaintifff or defendant; a special verdict is
that by which the jury find the facts only, leaving the judgment to the
Court. The special verdict shall present the conclusions of fact as established by the evidence, and not the evidence to prove them ; and those
conclusions of fact shall be so presented, as that nothing shall remain to
the Court but to draw from them conclusions of law.

§ 175. The Court may instruct the jury to hnd a special verdict:
when not so instructed, the verdict shall be general.

§ 176. When a verdict is found for the plaintifff, in an action for the
recovery of money, or for the defendant, when a counter ‘claim for the
recovery of money is established, exceeding the amount of the plaintiffs
claim as established, the jury shall also find the amount of the recovery.

§ 177. In an action for the recovery of specific personal property, if
the property has not been delivered to the plaintifff, or the defendant, by
his answer, claim a return thereof, the jury, if their verdict be in favor of
the plaintifff, or if, being in favor of the defendant, they also find that he
is entitled to a return thereof, shall find the value of the property, and
may, at the same time, assess the damages, if any are claimed in the
complaint or answer, which the prevailing party has sustained by reason
of the taking or detention of such property.

§ 178. Upon receiving a verdict, an entry shall be made by the
Clerk in the minutes of the Court, specifying the time of trial, the names
of the jurors and witnesses, and the verdict; and where the special verdict is found, either the judgment rendered thereon, or if the case be
reserved for argument or further consideration, the order thus reserving it.

CHAPTER V.

TRIAL BY THE COURT.

§ 17 9. Trial by jury may be waived by the several parties to an issue
of fact, in actions arising on contract; and with the assent of the Court
in other actions, in the manner following:
1st. By failing to appear at the trial:
2d. By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with the
Clerk.
3d. By oral consent in open Court, entered in the minutes.
The Court may prescribe by rule what shall be deemed a waiver in
other cases.
§ 180. Upon the trial of an issue of fact by the Court, its decision
shall be given in writing, and filed with the Clerk, within ten days after
the trial took place. In giving the decision, the facts found, and the

conclusions at law, shall be separater stated Judgment upon the
decision shall be entered accordingly.

§ 181. On a judgment upon an issue of law, if the taking of an
account be necessary to enable the Court to complete the judgment, a
reference may be ordered.

CHAPTER VI.

OF REFERENCES, AND TRIAL BY REFEREEB.

§ 182. A reference may be ordered upon the agreement of the par- ‘
ties filed with the Clerk, or entered in the minutes:
lst. To try any or all of the issues in an action or proceeding,
whether of fact or of law ; and to report a judgment thereon.
2d. To ascertain a fact necessary to enable the Court to proceed
and determine the case. ‘
§ 183. When the parties do not consent, the Court may, upon the '
application of either, or of its own motion, direct a reference in the following cases:
lst. When the trial of an issue of fact requires the examination
of a long account on either side; in which case the referees may be
directed to hear and decide the whole issue, or report upon any specific
question of fact involved therein :

. 2d. When the taking of an account is necessary for the information of the Court before judgment, or for carrying a judgment or
order into effect:

3d. When a question of fact, other than upon the pleadings,
arises upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of the action; or,
4th. When it is necessary for the information of the Court in a
special proceeding.
§ 184. A reference may be ordered to any person or persons, not ex— j
ceeding three, agreed upon by the parties. If the parties do not agree, ‘
the Court or Judge shall appoint one or more referees, not exceeding
three, who reside in the county in which the action or proceeding is
triable, and against whom there is no legal objection.
§ 185. Either party may object to the appointment of any person as
referee, on one or more of the following grounds :
lst. A want of any of the qualifications prescribed by Statute to
render a person competent as a juror:
2d. Consanguinity or adinity, within the third degree, to either
party :
3d. Standing in the relation of guardian and ward, master and
servant, employer and clerk, or principal and agent to either party; or
being a member of the family of either party; or a partner in business
with either party ; or being security on any bond or obligation for either
party :
4th. Having served as a juror, or been a witness on any trial
between the same parties for the same cause of action :

5th. Interest on the part of such person in the event of the action, or in the main question involved in the action :
6th. Having formed or expressed an unqualified opinion or belief
as to the merits of the action:
7th. The existence of a state of mind in such person evincing
enmity against or bias to either party.
§ 186. The objections taken to the appointment of any person as
referee shall be heard and disposed of by the Court. Atlidavits may
be read, and any person examined as a witness, as to such objections.
§ 187. The referees shall make their report within ten days after the
testimony before them is closed. Their report upon the whole issue
shall stand as the decision of the Court, and upon filing the report with
the Clerk of the Court, judgment may be entered thereon in the same
manner as if the action had been tried by the Court. The decision of
the referees may be excepted to and reviewed in like manner as if made
by the Court. When the reference is to reportthe facts, the report shall
have the effect of a Special verdict.

CHAPTER VII.
GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATING 10 mars.

ARTICLE I.
Exceptions.
§ 188. An exception is an objection taken at the trial to a decision
upon a matter of law, whether such trial be by jury, Court, or referees,
and whether the decision be made during the formation of -a jury, or in
the admission of evidence, or in the charge to a jury, or at any other
time from the calling of the action for trial to the rendering of the verdict or decision. But no exception shall be regarded on a motion for a
new trial, or on an appeal, unless the exception be material, and affect
the substantial rights of the parties.
§ 189. The point of the exception shall be particularly stated, and
may be delivered in writing to the Judge, or if the party require it,
shall be written down by the Clerk ; when delivered in writing, or
written down by the Clerk, it shall be made conformable to the truth,
or be at the time corrected until it is so made conformable. When not
delivered in writing, or written down as above, it may be entered in the
J udge’s minutes, and afterwards settled in a statement of the case, as
provided in this Act.
§ 190. No particular form of exception shall be required. The objection shall be stated, with so much of the evidence, or other matter, as is
necessary to explain it, but no more; and the whole as briefly as
possible.
§ 191. When a cause has been tried by the Court, or by referees, and
the decision ,or report is not made immediately after the closing of the
testimony, the decision or report shall be deemed excepted to on

motion for a new trial or on appeal, without any special notice that an
exception is taken thereto. ‘

ARTICLE II.
New Trials.

§ 192. A new trial is a reexamination of an issue of fact, in the same
court, after a trial and decision by a jury, Court, or referees.
§ 193. The former verdict or other decision may be vacated and a
new trial granted, on the application of the party aggrieved, for any of
the following causes materially affecting the substantial rights of such
party:
lst. Irregularity in the proceedings of the Court, jury, or adverse
party, or any order of the Court, or abuse of discretion by which either
party was prevented from having a fair trial :
2d. Misconduct of the jury :
3d. Accident, or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not
have guarded against:
4th. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party making
the application, which he could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced at the trial:
5th. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under the
inanence of passion or prejudice:
6th. Insufiiciency of the evidence to justify the verdict, or other
decision; or that it is against law:
7th. Error in law, occurring at the trial, and excepted to by the
party making the application.
§ 194. When the application is made for a cause mentioned in the
first, second, third, and fourth subdivisions of the last section, it shall be
made upon affidavit; for any other cause, it shall be made upon a statement prepared as provided in the next section.
§ 195. The party intending to move for a new trial, shall give notice
of the same within two days after the trial, and shall, within 5ve days
aher such notice, prepare and file with the clerk the affidavit required by
the last section, or a statement of the grounds upon which he intends to
rely. If no affidavit or statement be filed within five days after the
notice, the right to move for a new trial shall be deemed waived. The
statement shall contain so much of the evidence, or reference thereto, as
may be necessary to explain the grounds taken, and no more. .Such
statement, when containing any portion of the evidence of the case and
not agreed to by the adverse party, shall be sealed by the Judge upon
notice. On the argument, reference may also be made to the pleadings,
depositions, and documentary evidence on file, and to the minutes of the
court. If the application be made upon atiidavits filed, the adverse
party may use counter athdavits on the hearing. Any counter affidavits
shall be filed with the clerk one day at least previous to the hearing.

§ 196. The application for a new trial shall be made at the earliest
period practicable after tiling the affidavit or statement.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE MANNER OF GIVING AND ENTERING JUDGMENT.

§ 197. When trial by jury has been had, judgment shall be entered
by the clerk, in conformity to the verdict, within twenty-four hours alter
the rendition of the verdict, unless the Court order the case to be
reserved for argument, or further consideration, or grant a stay of prooeedings.

§ 198. When the case is reserved for argument, or further consideration, as mentioned in the last section, it may be brought by either party
before the Court for argument at the first special term.

§ 199. If a counterclaim, established at the trial, exceed the plaintiE’s demand, so established, judgment for the defendant shall be given
for the excess; or if it appear that the defendant is entitled to any other
ailirmative relief, judgment shall be given accordingly.
’ § 200. In an action to recover the possession of personal property,
judgment for the plaintifff may be for the possession, or the value thereof,
in case a delivery cannot be had, and damages for the detention. If
the property have been delivered to the plaintifff, and the defendant
claim a return thereof, judgment for the defendant may be for a return
of the property, or the value thereof in case a return cannot be had, and
damages for taking and withholding the same.

§ 201. The Clerk shall keep among the records of the Court a book
for the entry of Judgments, to be called the “ Judgment Book,” in which
such judgment shall be entered, and shall specify clearly‘ the relief
granted, or other determination of the action. .

§ 202. If a party die alter a verdict or decision upon any issue of
, fact, and before judgment, the Court may nevertheless render judgment
thereon. Such judgment shall not be a lien on the real property of th:
deceased party, but shall be payable in the cchlrse of administration on
his estate.

§ 203. Immediately after entering the judgment, the Clerk shall
attach together and file the following papers, which shall constitute the
judgment roll :

3113?? In case the complaint be not answered by any defendant,
the summons with the al’ddavit or proof of service, and the complaint,
with a memorandum endorsed on the complaint, that the default of the
defendant in not answering was entered, and a copy of the judgment:

2d. In all other cases, the summons, pleadings, and a copy of

the judgment, and any orders relating to a change of the parties.
§ 204. Immediately after filing a judgment roll the Clerk shall
make the proper entries of the judgment, under appropriate heads, in
the docket kept by him; and from the time the judgment is docketed,
it shall become a lien upon all the real property of the judgment debtor,

not exempt from execution in the county owned by him at the time,
or which he may afterwards acquire, until the said lien expires. The
lien shall continue for two years, unless the judgment be previously
satisfied.

§ 205. The docket mentioned in the last section is a book which the
Clerk shall keep in his odice, with each page divided into eight columns,
and headed as follows : Judgment Debtors; Judgment Creditors;
Judgment: Time of Entry; Where entered in Judgment Book; Appeals,
when taken; Judgment of Appellate Court; Satisfaction of Judgment,
when entered. If judgment be for the recovery of money or damages,
the amount shall be stated in the docket under the head of judgment;
if the judgment be for any other relief, a memorandum of the general
character of the relief granted shall be stated. The names of the defendants shall be entered in the docket in alphabetical order.

§ 206. The docket kept by the Clerk shall be open at all times
during office hours for the inspection of the public, without charge;
and it shall be the duty of the Clerk to arrange the several dockets
kept by him in such a manner as to facilitate their inspection.

§ 207. A transcript of the original docket certified by the Clerkmay be filed with the Recorder of any other county, and from the time
of the filing the judgment shall become a lien upon all the real
property of the judgment debtor not exempt from execution in such
county owned by him at the time, or which he may afterwards acquire,
until the said lien expires. The lien shall continue for two years, unless
the judgment be previously satisfied.

§ 208. Satisfaction of a judgment may be entered in the Clerk’s
docket upon an execution returned satisfied, or upon an acknowledgment
of contract filed with the Clerk, made in the manner of an acknowledgment of a conveyance of real property, by the judgment Creditor; or
within one year after the judgment by the Attorney, unless a revocation
of his authority be previously filed. Whenever a judgment shall be
satisfied in fact, otherwise than upon an execution,_it shall be the duty
of the party, or Attorney, to give such acknowledgment, and upon
motion the Court may compel it, or may order the‘ entry of satisfaction
to be made without it.

T I T L E V I I .
0f the Execution of the Judgment in Civil Actions.

CHAPTER I.

ma EXECUTION.
§ 209. The party in whose favor judgment is given, may, at any time
within five years after the entry thereof, issue a writ of execution for its

enforcement, as prescribed in this chapter.
§ 210. The writ of execution shall be issued in the name of the

people, sealed with the seal of the Court, and subscribed by the clerk,

and shall be directed to the Sheriff, and shall intelliginy refer to the
judgment, stating the Court, the County where the judgment roll is
filed, the name of the parties, the judgment, and if it it be for money,
the amount thereof, and the amount actually due thereon, and shall
require the Sheriii' substantially as follows :
1st. If it be against the property of the judgment debtor, it
shall require the Sheriff to satisfy the judgment, with interest, out of the
personal property of such debtor, and if sufficient personal property cannot be found, then out of his real property; or if the judgment be a
lien upon real property, then out of the real property belonging t6 him
on the day when the judgment was docketed, or if the execution be
issued to a county other than the one in which the judgment was
recovered on the day when the transcript of the docket was filed in the
odice of the Recorder of such county, stating such day, or at any time
thereafter:
2d. If it be against real or personal property, in the hands of
the personal representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants of real
property, or trustees, it shall require the Sheriff to satisfy the judgment,
with interest, out of such property:
3d. If it be against the personof the judgment debtor, it shall
require the Sheriff to arrest such debtor, and commit him to the jail of
the county, until he pay the judgment, with interest, or be discharged '
according to law:
4th. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or personal property, it shall require the Sheriff to deliver the possession of the
same, particularly describing it, to the party entitled thereto, and may at
the same time require the Sheriff to satisfy any costs, damages, rents, or
profits, recovered by the same judgment, out of the personal property
of the party against whom it was rendered, and the value of the property
for which the judgment was recovered, to be specified therein, if a
delivery thereof cannot be had; and if sufficient personal property cannot be found, then out of real property, as provided in the first subdivision of this section.
§ 211. When a writ of execution is issued on a judgment recovered
against two or more persons, in an action upon a joint contract, in which
action all the defendants were not served with summons, or did not
appear, it shall direct the Sherid‘ to satisfy the judgment out of the joint
property of all the defendants, and, the individual property only of the
defendants who were served, or who appeared in the action. In other
respects, the writ shall contain the directions specided in the first subdi- ‘
vision of the last section.
§ 212. The execution may be made returnable at any time, not less
than ten nor more than sixty days aher its receipt by the Sherid; to the
Clerk with whom the judgment roll is filed.
§ 213. Where a judgment requires the payment of money, or the
delivery of real or personal property, the same shall be enforced in those

respects, by execution. Where it requires the performance of any other
set, a certified copy of the judgment may be served upon the party
against whom it is given, or upon the person or officer who is required
thereby, or by law, to obey the same, and his obedience thereto enforced.
§ 214. After the lapse of five years from the entry of judgment, an
execution shall be issued only by leave of the Court, on motion. Such
leave shall not be given, unless it be established by the oath of the party,
or other proof, that the judgment, or some part thereof, remains unsatistied and due.
§ 215. Notwithstanding the death of a party aner the judgment,
execution thereon against his property may, upon permission granted by
the Probate Court, be issued and executed in the same manner, and
with the same effect, as if he were still living.
§ 216. Where the execution is against the property of the judgment
debtor, it may be issued to the Sheriff of any county in the State.
Where it requires the delivery of real or personal property, it shall be
issued to the Sheriff of the County where the property, or some part
thereof, is situated. Executions may be issued, at the same time, to
did‘erent Counties.
§ 217. All property, real and personal, of the judgment debtor, not
exempt by law, shall be liable to execution. Until a levy, property
shall not be affected by the execution.
§ 218. If the property levied on be claimed by a third person as his
property, the Sheriff shall summon from his county six persons qualified
as jurors between the parties, to try the validity of the claim: He
shall also give notice of the claim and of the time of trial to the
plaintifff, who may appear and contest the claim before the jury. The
jury and the witnesses shall be sworn by the Sherid‘, and if their verdict
be in favor of the claimant, the Sheriff may relinquish the «levy, unless
the judgment creditor give him a sutiicient indemnity for proceeding
thereon. The fees of the jury, the Sheriff, and the witnesses, shall be
paid by the claimant, if the verdict be against him; otherwise by the
plaintifff. On the trial the defendant and the claimant may be examined
by the plaintifff as witnesses.
§ 219. The following property shall be exempt from execution,
except as herein otherwise specially provided :
1st. Chairs, tables, desks, and books, to the value of one hundred dollars, belonging to the judgment debtor :
2d. Necessary household, table, and kitchen furniture, belonging
to the judgment debtor, including stove, stove pipe, and stove furniture,
wearing apparel, beds, bedding and bedsteads, and provisions actually,
provided for individual or family use sudicient for one month :
3d. The farming utensils, or implements of husbandry, of the
judgment debtor; also two oxen, or two horses, or two mules, and their
harness, and one cart or wagon, and food for such oxen, horses, or
mules, for one month :

4th. The tools and implements of a mechanic, necessary to
carry on his trade, the instruments and chests of a surgeon, physician,
surveyor, and dentist, necessary to the exercise of their professions, with
their professional library, and the law libraries of an attorney or counsellor :
5th. The tent and furniture, including a table, camp stools, bed
and bedding of a miner; also his rocker, shovels, spade, wheelbarrows,
pumps, and other instruments used in mining, with provisions necessary
for his support for one month :
6th. Two oxen, or two horses, or two mules, and their harness,
and one cart or wagon, by the use of which a cartman, teamster, or
other laborer, habitually earns his living; and food for such oxen,
horses, or mules for one month, and a horse, harness, and vehicle used
by a physician or surgeon in making his professional visits:
7th. All arms and accoutrements required by law to be kept by
any person. But no article mentioned in this section shall be exempt
from an execution issued on a judgment recovered for its price, or upon
a mortgage thereon.
§ 220. The Sheriff shall execute the writ against the property of the
judgment debtor, by levying on a sufficient amount of property, if there
be sufficient; collecting or selling the things in action, and selling the
other property, and paying to the plaintifff or his attorney so much of
the proceeds as will satisfy the judgment, or depositing the amount with
the Clerk of the Court; any excess in the proceeds over the judgment
and the Sheriffs fees shall be returned to the judgment debtor. When
“there is more property of the judgment debtor than is sufficient to
'satisfy the judgment and the Sheriff’s fees, within the view of the
Sheriff, he shall levy only on such part of the property as the judgment
debtor may indicate: Provided, That the judgment debtor be present
at, and indicate at the time of the levy, such part; and provided, that the
property indicated he amply sutiicient to satisfy such judgment and fees.
§ 221. Before the sale of property on execution, notice thereof shall
be given as follows :—
lst. In case of perishable property, by posting written notice of
the time and place of sale, in three public places of the township' er city where the sale is to take place, for such a time as may be
reasonable, considering the character and condition of the property :
2d. In case of other personal property, by posting a similar
notice in three public places of the township or city where the sale is
to take place, not less than live nor more than ten days successively:
3d. In case of real property, by posting a similar notice,
particularly describing the property, for twenty days successively, in
three public places of the township or city where the property is situated, and also where the property is to be sold; and publishing a copy

thereof once a week, for the same period, in a newspaper in the county,
if there be one.

§ 222. An officer selling without the notice prescribed by the last
section, shall forfeit five hundred dollars to the aggrieved party, in addition to his actual damages; and a person willfully taking down or
defacing the notice posted, if done before the sale or the satisfaction of
the judgment, (if the judgment be satisfied before sale), shall forfeit five
hundred dollars. ‘

§ 223. All sales of property under execution shall be made at
auction to the highest bidder, and shall be made between the hours of
nine in the morning and live in the afternoon ; after sufficient property
has been sold to satisfy the execution, no more shall be sold. Neither
the officer holding the execution, nor his deputy, shall become a
purchaser, or be interested in any purchase at such sale. When the
sale is of personal property, capable of manual delivery, it shall be
within view of those who attend the sale, and be sold in such parcels as
are likely to bring the highest price; and when the sale is of real
property, and consisting of several known lots or parcels, they shall be
sold separately; or when a portion of such real property is claimed by
a third person, and he requires it to be sold separately, such portion
shall be thus sold. The judgment debtor, if present at the sale, may
also direct the order in which property, real or personal, shall be
sold, when such property consists of several known lots or parcels, or of
articles which can be sold to advantage separately ; and the Sheriff shall
be bound to follow such directions.

§ 224. If a purchaser refuse to pay the amount bid by him for :
property struck off to him at a sale under execution, the oilicer may 1
again sell the pr0perty at any time to the highest bidder, and if any ’
loss be occasioned thereby, the oilicer may recover the amount of such
loss, with costs, by motion upon previous notice of five days before any
Court, or before any Justice of the Peace, if the same shall not exceed
his jurisdiction.

§ 225. Such Court or Justice shall proceed in a summary manner ‘
and give judgment, and issue execution therefore forthwith, but the
defendant may claim a jury. And the same proceedings may be had
against any subsequent purchaser who shall refuse to pay, and the oilicer may, in his discretion, thereafter reject the bid of any person so
refusing.

§ 226. The two preceding sections shall not be construed to make
the officer liable for any more than the amount bid by the second, or
subsequent purchaser, and the amount collected from the purchaser
refusing to pay.

§ 227. When the purchaser of any personal property capable of
manual delivery shall pay the purchase money, the officer making the
sale shall deliver to the purchaser the property, and if desired shall
execute and deliver to hima certificate of the sale and payment. Such
certificate shall convey to the purchaser all the right, title, and interest

which the debtor had in and to such property on the day the execution
was levied.

§ 228. When the purchaser of any personal property not capable of
manual delivery shall pay the purchase money, the odicer making the
sale shall execute and deliver to the purchaser a certiticate of sale and
payment. Such certificate shall convey to the purchaser all right, title,
and interest which the debtor had in and to such property on the' day
the execution was levied.

§ 229. Upon a sale of real property, when the estate is less than a
leasehold of two years’ unexpired term, the sale shall be.absolute. In all
other cases, the real property shall be swject to redemption, as provided
in this chapter. The odicer shall give to the purchaser a certificate of
the sale, containing

lst. A particular description of the real property sold:

2d. The price bid for each distinct lot or parcel:

3d. The whole price paid :

4th. When subject to redemption, it shall be so stated, a duplicate of which certificate shall be filed by the odicer with the Recorder
of the county.

§ 230. Property sold subject to redemption, as provided in the last
section, or any part sold separately, may be redeemed in the manner
hereinafter provided, by the following persons, or their successors in
interest : ‘

1st. The judgment 'debtor, or his successor in interest, in the
whole or any part of the property:

26. A creditor, having a lien by judgment or mortgage on the
property sold, or on some share or part thereof, subsequent to that on
which the property was sold. The persons mentioned in the second
subdivision of this section are, in this chapter, termed redemptioners.

‘ § 231. The judgment debtor, or a redemptioner, may redeem the
‘ property from the purchaser within six months after the sale, on paying
the purchaser the amount of his purchase, with eighteen per cent. thereon in addition, together with the amount of any aSsessments or taxes
which the purchaser may have paid thereon after the purchase, and interest on such amount; and if the purchaser be also a creditor, having
a lien prior to that of the redemptioner, the amount of such lien with
interest.

§ 232. If the property be so redeemed by a redemptioner, either the
judgment debtor, or another redemptioner may, within sixty days after the
last redemption, again redeem it from the last redemptioner, on paying
the sum paid on such last redemption, with six per cent. thereon in addition, and the amount of any assessments or taxes which the said last
redemptioner-may have paid thereon, after the redemption by him, with
interest. on such amount; and the amount of any liens held by said last
redemptioner prior to his own, with interest. The property may be
again, and as alien as the debtor or any redemptioner is so disposed,

redeemed from any previous redemptioner, within sixty days ader the
last redemption, on paying the sum paid on the last previous redemption,
with six per cent. thereon in addition, and the amount of any assessments
or taxes which the said last previous redemptioner paid aRer the redemption by him, with interest thereon; and the amount of any liens held
by the said last redemptioner, previous to his own,with interest. Notice
of redemption shall be given to the Sheriff. If no redemption be made
within six months alter the sale, the purchaser shall be entitled to a conveyance ; or if so redeemed, whenever sixty days have elapsed, and no
other redemption has been made, and notice thereof given, the time for
redemption shall have expired, and the last redemptioner shall be entitled
to a Sheriff’s deed. If the debtor redeem at any time before the time
for redemption expires, the effects of the sale shall be terminated, and he
be restored to his estate.

§ 233. The payment mentioned in the last two sections may be
made to the purchaser or redemptioner, as the case may be, or for him,
to the officer who made the sale; and a tender of the money shall be
equivalent to payment.

§ 234. A redemptioner shall produce to the officer or person from
whom he seeks to redeem, and serve with his notice to the Sheriff:

lst. A copy of the docket of the judgment under which he
claims the right to redeem, certified by the Clerk of the Court, or of the
County where the judgment is docketéd; or if he redeem upon a mortgage or other lien, a note of the record thereof certified by the Recorder:
2d. A copy of any assignment necessary to establish his claim,

verified by the atiidavit of himself, or of a subscribing witness thereto :

3116,
3d. An affidavit by himself, or his agent, showing the amount

then actually due on the lien.
§ 235. Until the expiration of the time allowed for redemption, the

Court may restrain the commission of waste on the property, by order
granted with or without notice, on the application of the purchaser or
the judgment creditor. But it shall not be deemed waste for the person
in possession of the property at the time of sale, or entitled to possessionafterwards, during the period allowed for redemption, to continue to use
it in the same manner in which it was previously used; or to use it in
the ordinary course of husbandry ; or to make the necessary repairs of
buildings thereon ; or to use wood or timber on the property therefore ;'
or for the repair of fences; or for fuel in his family, while he occupies the
property. .

§ 236. The purchaser from the time of the sale until a redemption,
and a redemptioner, from the time of his redemption until another
redemption, shall be entitled to receive from the tenant in possession
the rents of the property sold, or the value of the use and occupation

thereof.

§ 237. If the purchaser of real property sold on execution, or his
successor in interest, be evicted therefrom in consequence of irregularity
in the proceedings concerning the sale, or of the reversal or discharge
of the judgment, he may recover the price paid, with interest, from the
judgment creditor. If the recovery be in consequence of the irregularity in the proceedings concerning the sale, the judgment may, by order
of the Court, upon notice to the judgment debtor, be revived, and a new
erecution issued for the price paid on the sale, with interest. Such

judgment shall be a lien on the real estate of the judgment debtor only
from the time of its revival. (

CHAPTER II.

PROCEEDINGS SUPPLEMENTARY TO THE EXECUTION.

§ 238. When aniexecution against property of the judgment debtor,
or of any one of several debtors in the same judgment, issued to the
Sheriff of the county where he resides ; or if he do not reside in this State,
to the Sheriff of the county where the judgment roll is filed; is returned
unsatisfied in whole or in part, the judgment creditor, at any time after
such return is made, shall be entitled to an order from the Judge of the
Court, or a County Judge, requiring such judgment debtor to appear
and answer concerning his property, before such Judge, or a referee
appointed by him, at a time and place specified in the order; but no .
judgment debtor shall be required to attend before a Judge or referee
out of the county in which he resides, when proceedings are taken under
the provisions of this chapter.

§ 239. After the issuing of an execution against property, and upon
proof by aliidavit of a party, or otherwise to the satisfaction of the Court,
or a Judge thereof, or County Judge, that any judgment debtor has
property which he unjustly refuses to apply towards the satisfactioh of
the judgment, such Court or Judge may, by an order, require the judgment debtor to appear at a specified time and place, before such Judge,
or a referee appointed by him, to answer concerning the same; and
such proceedings may thereupon be had for the application of the property.
(if the judgment‘debtor towards the satisfaction of the judgment, as are
provided upon the return of an execution.

§ 240. After the issuing of an execution against property, any person
, indebted to the judgment debtor may pay to the Sheriff the amount of
his debt, or so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy the execution;
and the Sheriff’s receipt shall be a sufiicient discharge for the amount so
paid. .

§ 241. After the issuing or return of an execution against property
of the judgment debtor, or of any one of several debtors in the same
judgment, or upon proof by affidavit or otherwise, to the satisfaction of
the Judge, that any person or corporation has property of such judgment debtor, or is indebted to him in an amount exceeding fifty dollars,

the Judge may, by an order, require such person or corporation, or
any odicer or member thereof, to appear at a specified time and place,
before him or a referee appointed by him, and answer concerning the
same. ~

 242. Witnesses may be required to appear and testify before the
Judge, or referee, upon any proceeding under this chapter in the same
manner as upon the trial of an issue.

§ 243. The Judge or referee may order any property of the judgment debtor, not exempt from execution, in the hands of such’ debtor or
any other person, or due to the judgment debtor, to be applied towards
the satisfaction of the judgment; except that the earnings of the debtor
for his personal services, at any time within thirty days next preceding
the order, shall not be so applied, when it shall be made to appear by
the debtor’s affidavit, or otherwise, that such earnings are necessary for
the use of a family supported wholly or partly by his labor.

§ 244. If it appear that a person or corporation alleged to have property of the judgment debtor, or indebted to him, claims an interest in the
property adverse to him, or denies the debt, the Court or Judge may'
authorize, by an order made to that effect, the judgment creditor to institute an action against such person or corporation, for the recovery of such
interest or debt; and the Court or Judge may, by order, forbid a transfer or other disposition of such interest or debt, until an action can be
commenced and prosecuted to judgment. Such order may be modified
or vacated by the Judge granting the same, or the Court in which the
action is brought, at any time upon such terms as may be just. ’

§ 245. If any person, party or witness, disobey an order of the‘
referee, properly made in the proceedings before liim under this chapter,
he may be punished by the Court or Judge ordering the reference for a
contempt.

T I T L E V I I I .
Actions in Particular Cases.

CHAPTER I.

ACTIONS FOR THE FORECLOSURE 0F MORTGAGES.

§ 246. In an action for the foreclosure or satisfaction of a mortgage
of real property, or the satisfaction of a lien or encumbrance upon
property, real or personal, the Court shall have power by its judgment
to direct a sale of the property, or any part of it; the application of the
proceeds to the payment of the amount due on the mortgage, lien, or
encumbrance, with costs, and execution for the balance.

§ 247. If there be surplus money remaining after payment of the
amount due on the mortgage, lien, or encumbrance with costs, the Court
may cause the same to be paid to the person entitled to it, and in the
meantime may direct it to be deposited in Court.

§ 248. If the debt, for which the mortgage, lien, or encumbrance is .

O

held, be not all due, so soon as sutiicient of the property has been sold
to pay the amount due, with costs, the sale shall cease: and afterwards
as often as more becomes due, for principal or interest, the Court may,
on motion, order more to be sold. But if the property cannot be sold
in portions, without injury to the parties, the whole may be ordered to
be sold in the first instance, and the entire debt and costs paid, there
being a rebate of interest where such rebate is proper.

CHAPTER II.

ACTIONS FOR NUISANCE, WASTE AND WILFUL‘ TRESPABS, IN CERTAIN
CASES, ON REAL PROPERTY.

§ 249. Anything which is injurious to health, or indecent, or offensive
to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, is a nuisance,
and the subject of an action. Such action may be brought by any person whose property is injuriously affected, or whose personal enjoyment
is lessened by the nuisance; and by the judgment, the nuisance may be
enjoined or abated, as well as damages recovered.

§ 250. If a guardian, tenant for life or years, joint tenant, or tenant
in common of real property, commit waste thereon, any person aggrieved
by the waste may bring an action against him therefore, in which action
there may be judgment for treble damages.

§ 251. Any person who shall cut down, or carry od‘, any wood or
underwood, tree or timber, or girdle or otherwise injure any tree or
timber on thebland of another person, or on the street or highway in
front of any person’s house, village or city lot, or cultivated grounds; or
on the commons or public grounds, of any city or town; or on the street
or highway, in front thereof, without lawful authority, shall be liable to
the owner of such land, or to such city or town, for treble the amount
of damages which may be assessed therefore, in a civil action, in any
.Court having jurisdiction.

§ 252. Nothing in the last section shall authorize the recovery of
more than the just value of the timber, taken from uncultivated wood
land, for the repair of a public highway or bridge upon the land, or
adjoining it. ’

§ 253. If a person recover damages for a forcible or unlawful entry
in or upon, or detention of, any building or any cultivated real property, judgment may be entered for three times the amount at which the
actual damages are assessed.

CHAPTER III.

ACTIONS TO DETERMINE CONFLICTING CLAIMS TO REAL PROPERTY, AND
OTHER PROVISIONS RELATING TO ACTIONS CONCERNING REAI. ESTATE.

§ 254. An action may be brought by any person in possession, by
himself or his tenant, of real property, against any person who claims

an estate or interest therein adverse to him, for the purpose of determining such adverse claim, estate, or interest.

§ 255.‘If the defendant in such action disclaim, in his answer, any
interest or estate in the property, or suffer judgment to be taken against
him without answer, the plaintifff shall not recover costs.

§7256. In an action for the recovery of real property, where the
plaintifff shows a right to recover at the time the action was commenced,
but it appears that his right has terminated during the pendency of the
action, the verdict and judgment shall be according to the fact; and the
plaintifff may recover damages for withholding the property.

§ 257. When damages are claimed for withholding the property
recovered, upon which permanent improvements have been made by a
defendant, or those under whom he claims, holding under color of title
adversely to the claims of the plaintiti‘, in good faith, the value of such
improvements shall be allowed as a set-off against such damages;

§ 258. The Court in which an action is pending for the recovery of ‘
real property may on motion, upon notice by either party, for good 3
cause shown, grant an order allowing to such party the right to enter 1
upon the property and make survey and measurement thereof, for the
purposes of the action.

§ 259. The order shall describe the property, and a copy thereof 1
shall be served on the owner or occupant; and thereupon such party
may enter upon the property, with necessary surveyors and assistants,
and make such survey and measurements : but if any unnecessary injury
be done to the property, he shall be liable therefore.

§ 260. A mortgage of real property shall not be deemed a con- :
veyance, whatever its terms, so as to enable the owner of the mortgage to
recover possession of the real property, without a foreclosure and sale.

§ 261. The Court may, by injunction, on good cause shown, restrain
the party in possession from doing any act to the injury of real property during the foreclosure of a mortgage thereon : or after a sale on
execution, before a conveyance.

§ 262. When real property shall have been sold on execution, the
purchaser thereof, or any person who may have succeeded to his interest,
may, after his estate becomes absolute, recover damages for injury to
the property by the tenant in possession, after sale and before possession
is delivered under the conveyance.

§ 263. An action for the recovery of real property against a person 3
in possession cannot be prejudiced by any alienation made by such ‘
person, either before or after the commencement of the action.

CEAPTER Iv.

ACTIONS iron was PARTITION or REAL PROPERTY.

§ 264. When several persons hold and are in possession of real
property, as joint tenants, or as tenants in common, in which one or
more of them have an estate of inheritance, or for life, an action may be

brought by one or more of such persons for a partition thereof, according
to the respective rights of the persons interested therein; and for sale of
such property, or a part of it, if it appear that a partition cannot be made
without great prejudice to the owners.

§ 265. The interests of all persons in the property, whether such
persons be known or unknown, shall be set forth in the complaint specifically and particularly, as far as known to the plaintifff; and if one or
more of the parties, or the share or quantity of interest of any of
the parties, be unknown to the plaintifff, or be uncertain or contingent,
or the ownership of the inheritance depend upon an executory devise,
or the remainder be a contingent remainder, so that such parties cannot
be named, that fact shall be set forth in the complaint.

§ 266. No persons who have or claim any liens Upon the property, by
mortgage, judgment, or otherwise, need be made parties to the action,
unless such liens be matters of record.

§ 267. Immediately after filing the complaint, the plaintid' shall file
with the Recorder of the County in which the property is situated, a
notice of the pendency of the action, containing the names of the parties
so far as known, the object of the action, and a description of the property to be ad'ected thereby. From the time of the filing, it shall be
deemed notice to all persons.

§ 268. The summons shall be directed to all the joint tenants and'
tenants in common, and all persons having any interest in, or any liens
of record by mortgage, judgment, or otherwise, upon the property, or
upon any particular portion thereof; and generally, to all persons
unknown, who have or claim any interest in the property.

§ 269. If a party having a share or interest is unknown, or any one
of the known parties reside out of the State, or cannot be found therein,
and such fact is made to appear by atiidavit, the summons may be
served on such absent or unknown party, by publication, as in other
cases. When publication is made, the summons, as published, shall be
accompanied by a brief description of the property which is the subject
of the action.

§ 270. The defendants who have been personally served with the
summons, and a certified copy of the complaint, shall set forth in their
answers, fully and particularly, the nature and extent of their interest
in the property; and if such defendants claim a lien upon the prOperty,
by mortgage, judgment, or otherwise, they shall state the amount and
date of the same, and the amount remaining due thereon, and whether
the amount has been secured in any other way or not; and if secured,
the extent and nature of the security; or they shall be deemed to have
waived their right to such lien.

§ 271. The rights of the several parties, plaintifffs as well as defendants, may be put in issue, tried and determined by such action; and
when a sale of the premises is necessary, the title shall be ascertained
by proof to the satisfaction of the Court, before the judgment of sale

shall be made; and where service of the complaint has been made by
publication, like proof shall be required of the right of the absent or
unknown parties, before such judgment is rendered ; except that where
there are several unknown persons having an interest in the property,
their rights may be considered together in the action, and not as
between themselves.

§ 272. The plaintifff shall produce to the Court, on the hearing of I
the case, the certificate of the Recorder of the county where the E
property is situated, showing whether there were or 'not any liens
outstanding of record upon the property, or any part thereof, at the
time of the commencement of the action.

§ 273. If it appear by the certificate of the Recorder that there 3
were outstanding liens of record at the time of the commencement of z
the action, and the persons holding or claiming such liens are not
made parties to the action, the Court shall either order such parties to
be brought in by an amendment, or supplemental complaint, or appoint
a referee to ascertain whether their liens have been paid; or if not
paid, what amount remains due, and their order among the liens held
by the parties who have appeared and answered; and whether the
amount remaining due thereon has been secured in any way, and if
secured, the extent and nature of the security.

§ 274. The plaintiE shall cause a notice to be served a reasonable
time previous to the day for appearance before the referee appointed, as
provided in the last section, on each person having outstanding liens of
record, who is not a party to the action, to appear before the referee at
a specified time and place, to make proof by his own atIidavit or
otherwise of the true amount due, or to become due, contingently or
absolutely thereon. In case such person be absent, or his residence be
unknown, service may be made by publication, or notice to his agents,
under the direction of the Court, in such manner as may be proper.
The report of the referee thereon shall be made to the Court, and shall
be confirmed, modified, or set aside, and a new reference ordered, as the
justice of the case may require.

§ 275. If it be alleged in the complaint, and be established by ;
evidence, or if it appear by the evidence without such allegation, in
the complaint, to the satisfaction of the Court, that the property, or any
part of it, is so situated that partition cannot be made without great
prejudice to the owners, the Court may order asale thereof. Otherwise,
upon the requisite proofs being made, it shall order a partition, according to the respective rights of the parties, as ascertained by the Court,
and appoint three referees therefore; and shall designate the portion to
remain undivided for the owners whose interests remain unknown, or
are not ascertained.

§ 276. In making the partition, referees shall divide the property,
and allot the several portions thereof to the respective parties, quality
and quantity relatively considered, according to the respective rights of

_._‘._4

the parties, as determined by the Court, designating the several portions
by proper land marks; and may employ a surveyor, with- the necessary
assistants, to aid them therein.
§ 277. The referees shall make a report of their proceedings, specifying therein the manner of executing their trust, describing the property divided, and the shares allotted to each party, with a particular
description of each share. ,
§ 278. The Court may confirm or set aside the report, and if necessary appoint new referees. Upon the report being confirmed, judgment
shall be rendered that such partition be effectual for ever; which judgment shall be binding and conclusive :

1st. On all persons named as parties to the action, and their
legal representatives, who have at the time any interest in the property
divided, or any part thereof, as owners in fee, or as tenants for life, or
for years; or as entitled to the reversion, remainder, or the inheritance
of such property, or of any part thereof after the termination of a
particular estate therein; and who, by any contingency, may be
entitled to a beneficial interest in the property, or who have an interest
in any undivided share thereof, as tenants for years or for life:

2d. On all persons interested in the property who may be
unknown, to whom notice shall have been given of the action for partition by publication: and,

3d. On all other persons claiming from such parties or persons,
or either of them.

L § 279. But such judgment and partition shall not affect tenants for
years less than ten, to the whole of the pr0perty which is the subject of
the partition.

§ 280. The expenses of the referees, including those of a surveyor
and his assistant, when employed, shall be ascertained and allowed by
the Gourt; and the amount thereof, together with the fees allowed by
law to the referees, shall be apportioned among the different parties to
the action.
§ 281. When a lien is on an undivided interest or estate of any of
the parties, such lien, if a partition be made, shall thenceforth be a
charge only on the share assigned to such party ; but such share shall
be first charged with‘its just proportion of the costs of the partition, in
preference to such lien.
§ 282. When a part of the property only is ordered to he sold, if
there be an estate for life, or years, in an undivided share of the whole
property, such estate may be set off in any part of the property not
ordered to be sold.
§ 283. The proceeds of the sale of the incumbered property shall be
applied under the direction of the Court as follows:
lst. To pay its just proportion of the general costs of the
action:
2d. To pay the costs of the reference :

8d. To satisfy and cancel of record the several liens in their order
of priority, by payment of the sums due and to become due; the
amount due to be verified by affidavit at the time of payment:
4th. The residue among the owners of the property sold,
according to their respective shares therein.
§ 284. Whenever any party to an action who holds a lien upon the
property, or any part thereof, has other securities for the payment of the
amount of such lien, the Court may, in its discretion, order such securitiw to be exhausted before a distribution of the proceeds of sale, or may
order a just deduction to be made from the amount of the lien on the
property, on account thereof.
§ 285. The proceeds of sale, and the securities taken by the referees, or any part thereof, shall be distributed by them to the persons
entitled thereto, whenever the Court so directs. But in case no direction be given, all such proceeds and securities shall be paid into Court,
or deposited therein, or as directed by the Court.
§ 286. When the proceeds of sales of any shares or parcels belonging to persons who are parties to the action, and who are known, are
paid into Court, the action may be continued as between such parties,
for the determination of their respective claims thereto, which shall be
ascertained and adjudged by the Court. Further testimony may be
taken in Court, or by a referee, at the discretion of the Court, and the
Court may, if , necessary, require such parties to present the facts or law
in controversy, by pleadings, as in an original action.
§ 287. All sales of real property, made by referees under this chap
ter, shall be made by public auction to the highest bidder, upon notice
published in the manner required for the sale of real property on execution. The notice shall state the terms of sale, and if the property or
any part of it is to be sold, subject to a prior estate, charge, or lien, that
shall be stated in the notice.
§ 288. The Court shall, in the order for sale, direct the terms of
credit which may be allowed for the purchase money of any portion of
the premises of which it may direct a sale on credit, and for that portion of which the purchase money is required, by the provisions hereinafter contained, to be invested for the benefit of unknown owners, infants
or parties, out of the State.
§ 289. The referees may take separate mortgages and other securities for the whole or convenient portions of the purchase money, of such
parts of the property as are directed by the Court to be sold on credit,
in the name of the Clerk of the Court and his sucwssors in office ; and
for the shares of any known owner of full age, in the name of such
owner; and for the shares of an infant, in the name of the guardian of
such infant.
§ 290. The person entitled to a tenancy for life, or years, whose estate
shall have been sold, shall be entitled to receive such sum as may be
deemed a reasonable satisfaction for such estate, and which the person

so entitled may consent to accept instead thereof, by an instrument in
writing filed with the Clerk of the Court. Upon the filing of such
consent, the Clerk shall enter the same in the minutes of the Court.

§ 291. If such consent be not given, filed and entered, as provided
in the last section, at or before a judgment of sale is rendered, the Court
shall ascertain and determine what proportion of the proceeds of the sale,
after deducting expenses, will be a just and reasonable sum to be allowed on
account of such estate ; and shall order the same to be paid to such
party, or deposited in Court for him, as the case may require.

§ 292. If the persons entitled to such estate for life or years be unknown, the Court shall provide for the protection of their rights, in the
same manner, as far as may be, as if they were known and had appeared.

§ 293. In all cases of sales when it appears that any person has a
vested or contingent future right or estate in any of the property sold,
the Court shall ascertain and settle the proportional value of such contingent, or vested right or estate, and shall direct such pr0portion of
the proceeds of the sale to be invested, secured, or paid over, in such
manner as to protect the rights and interests of the parties.

§ 294. In all cases of sales of property, the terms shall be made
known at the time; and if the premises consist of distinct farms or lots,
they shall be sold separately.

§ 295. Neither of the referees, nor any person for the benefit of
either of them, shall be interested in any purchase; nor shall a guardian of an infant party be interested in the purchase of any real property, being the subject of the action, except for the benefit of the in'
fant. All sales contrary to the provisions of this section shall be
void.

§ 296. After completing a sale of the property, or any part thereof
ordered to be sold, the referees shall report the same to the Court, with
a description of the different parcels of land sold to each purchaser;
the name of the purchaser; the price paid or secured; the terms and
conditions of the sale; and the securities, if any, taken. The report
shall be filed in the office of the Clerk of the county where the property is situated.

§ 297. If the sale be confirmed by the Court, an order shall be entered,
directing the referees to execute conveyances and take securities pursuant
to such sale; which they are hereby authorized to do. Such order may
also give directions to them respecting the disposition of the proceeds of
the sale.

§ 298. When a party entitled to a share of the property, or an encumbrancer entitled to have his lien paid out of the sale, becomes a
purchaser, the referees may take his receipt for so much of the proceeds of the sale as belongs to him.

§ 299. The conveyances shall be recorded in the county where the
premises are situated, and shall be a bar against all persons interested
in the property in any way, who shall have been named as parties in

the action ; and against all such parties and persons as were unknown,
if the summons have been served by publication, and against all persons
claiming from them, or either of them.
§ 300. When there are proceeds of a sale belonging to an unknown
owner, or to a person without the State, who has no legal representative
within it, the same shall be invested in securities on interest, for the
benefit of the persons entitled thereto.
§ 301. When the security of the proceeds of sale is taken, or when
an investment of any such proceeds is made, it shall be done, except as
herein otherwise provided, in the name of the Clerk of the county where
the papers are filed, and his successors in oliice, who shall hold the same
for the use and benefit of the parties interested, subject to the order of
the Court.
§ 302. When security is taken by the referees on a sale, and the
parties interested in such security, by an instrument in writing under
their hands delivered to the referees, agree upon the shares and proportions to which they are respectively entitled; or when shares and proportions have been previously adjudged by the Court, such securities
shall be taken in the names of, and payable to, the parties respectively
entitled thereto ; and shall be delivered to such parties upon their
receipt therefore. Such agreement and receipt shall be returned and filed
with the Clerk.
§ 303. The Clerk in whose name a security is taken, or by whom an
investment is made, and his successors in oilice, shall receive the interest
and principal as it becomes due, and apply and invest the same as the
Court may direct; and shall file in his othce all securities taken, and
keep an account in a book provided and kept for that purpose, in the
Clerk’s office, free for inspection by all persons, of investments and
monies received by him thereon, and the disposition thereof.
§ 304. When it appears that partition cannot be made equal between
the parties, according to their respective rights, without prejudice to the
rights and interests of some of them, and a partition be ordered by
judgment, the Court may adjudge compensation to be made, by one
party to another, on account of the inequality of partition. But such
compensation shall not be required to be made to others, by owners
unknown, nor by infants, unless, in case of an infant, it appear that he
has personal property sutiicient for that purpose, and that his interest
will be promoted thereby.
§ 305. When the share of an infant is sold, the proceeds of the sale
may be paid by the referee making the sale to his general guardian, or
the special guardian appointed for him in the action, upon giving the
security required by law, or directed by order of the Court.
§ 306. The guardian who may be entitled to the custody and management of the estate of an insane person, or other person adjudged incapable of conducting his own affairs, whose interest in real property shall
have been sold, may receive, in behalf of such person, his share of the

proceeds of such real property, from the referees, on executing with sufficient sureties, an undertaking approved by a Judge of the Court, or by
a County Judge, that he will faithfully discharge the trust reposed in
him, and will render a true and just account to the penson entitled, or to
his legal representative.

§ 307. The general guardian of an infant, and the guardian entitled
to the custody and management of the estate of an insane person, or
other person adjudged incapable of conducting his own affairs, who is
interested in real estate held in joint tenancy, or in common, or in any
other manner so as to authorize his being made a party to an action for
the partition thereof, may consent to a partition without action, and agree
upon the share to be set ad to such infant, or other person entitled, and
may execute a release in his behalf to the owners of the shares, of the
parts to which they may be respectively entitled, upon an order of the
Court.

§ 308. The costs of partition, including fees of referees and other
disbursements, shall be paid by the parties respectively entitled to share
in the lands divided, in proportion to their respective interests therein,
and may be included and specified in the judgment. In that case they
shall be a lien on the several shares, and the judgment may be enforced
by execution against such shares, and against other property held by the
respective parties. When, however, a litigation arises between some of
the parties only, the Court may require the expense of such litigation to
be paid by the parties thereto, or any of them.

§ 309. The Court, with the consent of the parties, may appoint a
single referee, instead of three referees, in the proceedings under the
provisions of this chapter; and the single referee, when thus appointed,
shall have all the powers and perform all the duties required of the three
referees.

CHAPTER V.

ACTIONS FOR THE UBURPATION OF AN OFFICE OB FRANCHISE.

§ 310. An action may be brought by the Attorney General in the
name of the people of this State, upon his own information, or upon the
complaint of a private party, against any person who usurps, intrudes
into, or unlawfully holds or exercises any public office, civil or military:
or any franchise within this State. And it shall be the duty of the
Attorney General to bring the action, whenever he has reason to believe
that any such office or franchise has been usurped, intruded into, or
unlawfully held or exercised by any person, or when he is directed to do

so by the Governor.
§ 311. Whenever such action is brought, the Attorney General, in

addition to the statement of the cause of Action, may also set forth in
the complaint the name of the person rightly entitled to the ofIice, with
a statement of his right thereto ; and in such case, upon proof by affidavit that the defendant has received fees or emoluments belonging

to the odice, and by means of his usurpation thereof, an order may be
granted by a Judge of the Supreme Court, or a District Judge,
for the arrest of such defendant, and holding him to bail; and thereupon he may be arrested, and held to bail, in the same manner, and with
the same effect, and subject to the same rights and liabilities, as in other
civil actions where the defendant is subject to arrest.

§ 312. In every such case, judgment may be rendered upon the
right of the defendant, and also upon the right of the party, so alleged
to be entitled; or only upon the right of the defendant, as justice shall
require.

§ 313. If the judgment be rendered upon the right of the person so
alleged to be entitled, and the same be in favor of such person, he shall
be entitled, aner taking the oath of odice, and executing such odicial
bond as may be required by law, to take upon himself the execution of
the ofIice.

§ 314. If judgment be rendered upon the right of the person so
alleged to be entitled, in favor of such person, he may recover, by action,
the damages which he shall have sustained, by reason of the usurpation
of the odice by the defendant.

§ 315. When several persons claim to be entitled to the same office
or franchise, one action may be brought against all such persons, in
order to try their respective rights to such office or franchise.

§ 316. When a defendant, against whom such action has been
brought, is adjudged guilty of usurping or intruding into, or unlawfully
holding any office, franchise, or privilege, judgment shall be rendered
that such defendant be excluded from the oilice, franchise, or privilege,
and that he pay the costs of the action. The Court may also, in its
discretion, impose upon the defendant a line not exceeding five thousand
dollars ; which fine, when collected, shall be paid into the Treasury of
the State.

CHAPTER VI.
or sorrows soamsr STEAMERS, vsssan, AND nous.

§ 317. All steamers, vessels, and boats shall be liable :

1st. For supplies furnished for their use at the request of their respective owners, masters, agents, or consignees:

2d. For services rendered on board at the request of, or on contract
with, their respective owners, masters, agents, or consignees.

3d. For materials furnished in their construction, or repair, or equipment:

4th. For their wharfage and anchorage within the State:

5th. For non-performance or mal-performauce of any contract for the
transportation of persons or property, made by their respective owners,
masters, agents, or consignees.

6th. For injuries committed by them to persons or property:
Provided, that the wages of mariners, boatmen, and others employed in

the service of such steamers, vessels, and boats, shall have preference
over all other demands.

§ 318. Actions for demands arising upon any of the grounds specified in the preceding section, may be brought directly against such
steamers, vessels, or boats.

§ 319. The complaint shall designate the steamer, vessel, or boat by
name, and shall be verified by the oath of the plaintifff, or some one on
his behalf.

§ 320. The summons attached to a certified copy of the complaint,
may be served on the master, mate, or any person having charge
of the steamer, vessel, or boat, against which the action is brought.

§ 321. The plaintifff, at the time of issuing the summons, or at any
time afterwards, may have the steamer, vessel, or boat, against which the
action is brought, with its tackle, apparel, and furniture attached, as
security for the satisfaction of any judgment that may be recovered
therein.

§ 322. The Clerk of the Court shall issue a writ of attachment, on
the application of the plaintifff, upon receiving a written undertaking on
behalf of the plaintifff, executed by two or more sudicient sureties, to the
effect, that if judgment be rendered in favor of the steamer, vessel, or boat,
as the case may be, he will pay all costs and damages that may
be awarded against him, and all damages ‘which may be sustained by
such steamer, vessel, or boat from the attachment, not exceeding the sum
specified in the undertaking, which shall in no case be less than five
hundred dollars when the attachment is issued against a steamer
or vessel, or less than two hundred dollars when issued against a boat.
The undertaking shall be accompanied by an affidavit of each of the
sureties, that he is a resident and freeholder or householder of the
County, and worth double the amount specified in the undertaking over
and above all his just debts and liabilities. The Clerk shall file the undertaking and affidavits.

§ 323. The writ shall be directed to the Sheriff of the county within
which the steamer, vessel, or boat lies, and direct him to attach such
steamer, vessel, or boat, with its tackle, apparel, and furniture, and keep
the same in his custody until discharged by due course of law ; unless
the owner, master, agent, or consignee thereof, give him security by the
undertaking of at least two sufficient sureties, in an amount sutIicient to
satisfy the demand in suit, which shall be specified in the writ, besides
costs ; in which case, to take such undertaking.

§ 324. The Sheriff to whom the writ is directed and delivered shall
execute the same without delay, and shall, unless the undertaking mentioned in the last~section‘be given, attach and keep in his custody the
steamer, vessel, or boat named therein, with its tackle, apparel, and furniture, until discharged by due course of law; but the Sheriff shall not
be authorized by any such writ to interfere with the discharge of any
merchandise on board of such steamer, vessel, or .boat, nor will the

removal of any trunks or other property of passengers, or of the captain,
mate, seaman, steward, cook, or other persons employed on board.
§ 325. The owner, master, agent, or consignee of the steamer, vessel, 1
or boat, against which the action is brought, may appear and answer, or
plead to the action ; and may except to the sutliciency of the suretics on
the undertaking filed on the behalf of the plaintifff, and may require
suretia to justify, as in actions against individuals upon bail on arrest.
§ 326. All proceedings in actions under the provisions of this chapter 1
shall be conducted in the same manner as in actions against individuals:
except as otherwise herein provided : and in all proceedings subsequent
to the complaint, the steamer, vessel, or boat may be designated as
defendant.
§ 327. Aher the appearance to the action, of the owner, master, i
agent, or consignee, the attachment may, on motion, be discharged, in
the same manner, and on like terms and conditions, as attachments in
other cases, subject to the provisions of section 329.
§ 328. If the attachment be not discharged, and a judgment be 
recovered in the action in favor of the plaintifff, and an execution be
imued thereon, the Sheriif shall sell at public auction, after publication
of notice of such sale for ten days, the steamer, vessel, or boat, with its
tackle, apparel, and furniture, or such interest therein as may be necessary,
and shall apply the proceeds of sale, as follows:
1st. When the action is brought for demands other than the
wages of mariners, boatmen, and others employed in the service of the
steamer, vessel, or boat sold, to the payment of the amount of such
wages, as specified in the execution:
2d. To the payment of the judgment and costs, including his
fees: and,
3d. He shall pay any balance remaining to the owner, master,
agent, or consignee, who may have appeared in the action; or if there
be no appearance, then into Court, subject to the claim of any party or
parties legally entitled thereto.
§ 329. Any mariner, boatman, or other person employed in the service
of the steamer, vessel, or boat attached, who may wish to assert his claim
for wages against the same, the attachments being issued for other than
such wages, shall file an affidavit of his claim setting forth the amount
and the particular service rendered, with the Clerk of the Court; and
thereafter no attachment shall be discharged upon filing an undertaking,
unless the amount of such claim, or the amount determined as provided
- in the next section, be covered thereby in addition to the other requirements ; and any execution issued against such steamer, vessel, or boat,
upon judgment recovered thereafter, shall direct the application of the
proceeds of any sale: first, to the payment of the amount of such claims
fil.or the amount determined, as provided in the next section which
the Clerk shall insert in the writ; and second, to the payment of the
judgment and costs, and Sheriff’s fees; and shall direct the payment of

any balance to the owner, master, or consignee who may have appeared
in the action; but if no appearance by them be made therein, it shall
direct a deposit of the balance in Court.

§ 330. If the claim of the mariner, boatman, or other person, filed
with the Clerk of the Court, as provided in the last section, be not contested within tive days after notice of the tiling thereof by the owner,
master, agent, or consignee of the steamer, vessel, or boat against which
the claim is filed,it shall be deemed admitted; but if contested, the Clerk
shall endorse upon the affidavit thereof a statement that it is contested,
and the grounds of the contest; and shall immediately thereafter order
the matter to a single referee for his determination, or he may hear the
proofs and determine the matter himself. The judgment of the Clerk,
or referee, may be received by the County Judge either in term or vacation, immediately after the same is given, and the judgment of the
County Judge shall be final. On the review, the County Judge may
use the minutes of the proofs taken by the Clerk, or referee, or may take
the proofs anew.

§ 331. The notice of sale published by the Sherid' shall contain a
statement of the measurement and tonnage of the steamer, vessel, or
boat, and a general description of her condition.

§ 332. From orders and judgments under this chapter, an appeal
may be taken by the owner, master, agent, or consignee, on the same
terms and conditions as appeals in actions against individuals.

T I T L E I X .
0f Appeals in Civil Actions.

CHAPTER I. ,

APPEALS IN GENERAL. 1

§ 333. A judgment or hrder in a civil action may be reviewed as
prescribed by this title, and not otherwise.

§ 334. An order made out of Court, without notice to the adverse
party, may be vacated or modified, without notice, by the Judge who
made it; or may be vacated or modified on notice, in the manner in
which other motions are made. n

§ 335. Any party aggrieved may appeal in the cases prescribed in
this title. The party appealing shall be known as the appellant, and
the adverse party as the respondent.

§ 336. An appeal may be taken :

, 1st. From a final judgment in an action, or special proceeding,
commenced in the Court in which the judgment is rendered, within one
year after the rendition of the judgment.

2d. From a judgment rendered on an appeal from an inferior
Court, within ninety days after the rendition of the judgment. 1"

3d. From an order made at a special term within sixty days
atter the order is made, and entered in the minutes of the Clerk.

This section shall not extend to appeals to the District Courts
from orders or judgments of the Probate Courts, but shall extend to
judgments rendered in the District Courts upon such appeals.

§ 337. The appeal shall be made by filing with the Clerk of the
-Court, with whom the judgment or order appealed from is entered, a
notice stating the appeal from the same, or some specific part thereof,
and serving a copy of the notice upon the adverse party or his attorney.

§ 338. When the party who has the right to appeal wishes a state
ment of the case to be annexed to the record of the judgment or order,
he shall, within twenty days after the entry of such judgment or order,
prepare such statement, which shall contain the grounds upon which he
intends to rely on the appeal, and so much of the evidence as may be
necessary to explain the grounds, and no more; and shall serve a copy
thereof upon the adverse party. The respondent may, within five days
thereafter, prepare amendments to the statement, and serve a copy on
the appellant. If such amendments are admitted, the statement shall
be corrected accordingly; and if not admitted, the statement and
amendments shall be presented to the Judge who tried or heard the
case, upon notice of two days to the respondent, and a true statement
shall thereupon be settled by such Judge.

§ 339. If the party shall admit to make a statement within the time
above limited, he shall be deemed to have waived his right thereto; and
when a statement is made and the parties shall omit within the several
times above limited, the one party to propose amendments, the other to
notify an appearance before the Judge, they shall respective] y be deemed,
the former to have agreed to the statement as proposed, and the latter
to have agreed to the amendments as proposed.

§ 340. The several periods of time above limited may be enlarged,
upon good cause shown by the Judge before whom the cause was tried.

§ 341. The statement, when settled by the Judge, shall be signed
by him, with his certificate that the same has been allowed and is correct: when the statement is agreed upon by the parties, they or their
Attorneys shall sign the same with their certificate that it has been
agreed upon by them, and is correct. In either case, when settled or
agreed upon, it shall be filed with the Clerk.

§ 342. The Clerk shall annex the statement, if the appeal be from ‘
a final judgment, to the judgment roll; if the appeal be from an order,
to such order, or to a copy thereof.

§ 343. The provisions of the last five preceding sections shall not Y
apply to appeals taken from an order made at a special term upon at’ri- i
davits filed; but such affidavits shall be annexed to the order in the
place of the statement mentioned in those sections.

§ 344. Upon an appeal from a judgment, the Court may review 
any intermediate order involving the merits, and necessarily ad‘ecting
the judgment.

§ 845. Upon an appeal from a judgment or order, the Appellate '

Court may reverse, amrm, or modify the judgment or order appealed
from, in the respect mentioned in the notice of appeal, and as to any or
all of the parties; and may set aside or'contirm, or modify any or all of
the proceedings subsequent to or dependent upon such judgment or
order, and may, if necessary or proper, order a new trial. When the
judgment or order is reversed or modified, the Appellate Court may
make complete restitution of all property and rights lost by the erroneous judgment or order, and when it appears to the Appellate Court that
the appeal was made for delay, it may add to the costs such damages
as may be just.

§ 346. On an appeal from a final judgment, the appellant shall fur‘ nish the Court a copy of the notice of appeal, the judgment roll, and
the statement annexed, certified by the Clerk to be a correct copy.

On appeal from a judgment rendered on an appeal, or from an order
made at a special term, the appellant shall furnish the Court with a
copy of the notice of appeal, the judgment or order appealed from, and
a copy of the papers used on the hearing of the Court below; such
copies to be certified by the Clerk to be correct. If any written Opinion
be given on rendering the judgment or making the order in the Court
below, a copy shall be furnished. If the appellant, fail to furnish the
requisite papers the appeal may be dismissed.

CHAPTER II.

APPEALS TO THE SUPREME COURT FROM THE DIBTRICT COURTS, AND
THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO.

§ 347 . An appeal may be sent to the Supreme Court from the Districts Courts, and the Superior Court of the City of San Francisco, in the
following cases :

lst. From the judgment rendered in an action or special proceeding, commenced in those Courts, or brought into those Courts from
another Court:
2d. From an order made at a special term granting or refusing

a new trial, or which affects a substantial right in an action or special
proceeding. ,

§ 348. To render an appeal eEectual for any purpose, in any case, a
written undertaking shall be executed on the part of the appellant, by at
least two sureties, to the effect that the appellant will pay all damages
and costs which may be awarded against him on the appeal, not exceeding three hundred dollars; or that sum shall be deposited with the Clerk,
with whom the judgment or order was entered, to abide the event of
the appeal. Such undertaking shall be filed, or such deposit made with
the Clerk within five days after the notice of appeal is filed.

§ 349. If the appeal be from a judgment or order directing the payment of money, it shall not stay the execution of the judgment or order
unless a written undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant
by two or more sureties, stating their places of residence and occupation, to

the effect that they are bound in double the amount named in the judgment or order, that if the judgment or order appealed from, or any part
thereof be atiirmed, the appellant shall pay the amount directed to be
paid by the judgment or order, or the part of such amount as to which the
judgment or order shall be adirmed, if affirmed only in part; and all
damages and costs which shall be awarded against the appellant, upon
the appeal.

§ 350. If the judgment or order appealed from, direct the assignment or delivery of documents, or personal property, the execution of
the judgment or order shall not he stayed by appeal, unless the things
required to be assigned or delivered, be placed in the custody of such
oEoer or receiver as the Court may appoint; or unless an undertaking
be entered into, on the part of the appellant, with at least two sureties,
and in such amount as the Court or the Judge thereof, or County
Judge, may direct, to the sheet that the appellant will obey the order of
the Appellate Court upon the appeal.

§ 351. If the judgment or order appealed from direct the execution
of a conveyance or other instrument, the execution of the judgment or
order shall not be stayed by the appeal, until the instrument is executed
and deposited with the Clerk, with whom the judgment or order is entered, to abide the judgment of the Appellate Court.

§ 352. If the judgment or order appealed from direct the sale, or
delivery of possession of real property, the execution of the same shall
not he stayed, unless a written undertaking be executed on the part of
the appellant, with two or more sureties, to the effect that during the
possession of such property by the appellant, he will not commit,
or suffer to be committed, any waste thereon, and that if the judgment
be adirmed, he will pay the value of the use and occupation of the property, from the time of the appeal until the delivery of possession
thereof, pursuant to the judgment or order, not exceeding a sum to be
fixed by the Judge of the Court by which the judgment was rendered
or order made, and which shall be specified in the undertaking. When ‘
the judgment is for the sale of mortgaged premises, and the payment of
a deficiency arising upon the sale, the undertaking shall also provide for
the payment of such deficiency.

§ 353. Whenever an appeal .is perfected, as provided by the 1
preceding sections in this chapter, it shall stay all further proceedings in
the Court below, upon the judgment or order appealed from, or upon
the matter embraced therein ; but the Court below may proceed upon
any other matter included in the action, and not ad'scted by the judgment or order appealed from. And the Court below may, in its ;
discretion, dispense with, or limit the security required by said sections,
when the appellant is an executor, administrator, trustee, or other person acting in another’s right. ,

§ 354. The undertaking prescribed by sections 348, 349, 850, and ‘

352, may be in one instrument, or several, at the option of the
appellant.
- § 355. An undertaking upon an appeal shall be of no effect, unless
i it be accompanied by the affidavit of the sureties, that they are each
worth double the amount specified therein, over and above all their just
debts and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution. The
adverse party may, however, except to the sufficiency of the sureties,
within tivedays after the filing of the undertaking; and unless they or '
l other sureties justify before a Judge of the Court below, or a County
Judge, or the County Clerk, within live days thereafter (upon notice to
the adverse party), the appeal shall be regarded as if no such undertaking
had been given.
§ 356. In cases not provided for in sections 349, 350, 351, and 852,
, the perfecting of an appeal, by giving the undertaking, and the justification of the sureties thereon, if required, or making the deposit mentioned
in section 348, shall stay proceedings in the Court below upon the
judgment or order appealed from; except that where it directs the sale
of perishable property, the Court below may order the property to be
sold, and the proceeds thereof to be deposited, to abide the judgment of
the Appellate Court.
§ 357. Appeals in the Supreme Court from a final judgment, and
from a judgment rendered on an appeal, and from an order granting or
refusing a new trial, shall be heard at a general term. Appeals in all
other cases shall be held ata special term.
§ 358. When judgment is rendered upon the appeal, it shall be certified by the Clerk of the Supreme Court to the Clerk with whom
the judgment roll is filed, or the order appealed from is entered. In
cases of appeal from the judgment, the Clerk with whom the roll is filed
shall attach the certificate to the judgment roll, and enter a minute of
the judgment of the Supreme Court on the docket against the original
entry. In cases of appeal from an order, the Clerk shall enter at length
in the records of the Court the certificate received, and minute against
the entry of the order appealed from a reference to the certificate, with
a brief statement that such order has been adirmed, reversed, or modi—
fied, as the case may be, by the Supreme Court, on appeal.

CHAPTER III.

APPEALS TO THE DISTRICT COURTS FROM THE COUNTY COURTS.

§ 359. An appeal may be taken to the District Courts from the
County Courts, of the county or counties comprising any judicial district
in the following cases :
1st. From a final judgment rendered in an action, or special proceeding commenced therein:
2d. From a judgment rendered on an appeal from a Justice’s
Court or a Recorder’s Court, in a case involving the legality of any tax,

fees, toll, impost, license, municipal or other line, or the possession of
real property:
3d. From an order granting or refusing a new trial, or which

sheets a substantial right in an action or special proceeding.

§ 360. Security shall be given upon such appeal, in the same manner
and to the same extent as upon an appeal to the Supreme Court, and
like justification on the part of the sureties may be required.

§ 361. Appeals to the District Courts, as provided in this chapter,
shall be heard at the special terms of those Courts, and shall be brought
on to a hearing at the earliest period practicable.

§ 362. The appellant shall furnish the papers to the Appellate Court,
in the same manner as upon an appeal to the Supreme Court. ' 7

CHAPTER IV.

APPEALS TO THE DISTRICT COURTS FROM THE PROBATE COURTS.

§ 363. An appeal may be taken from a Probate Court to the District Court of the District in which the Probate Court is held, in the

following cases:
1st. From an order or decree admitting a will to probate, or

refusing the same :

2d. From an order setting apart property, or making an allowance for the widow or children :

3d. From an order granting letters testamentary or of administration, or appointing a guardian of an infant, or of an insane person, or
of a person incompetent to manage his property, or refusing to grant
such letters, or to make such appointment, or making such letters or

appointment.
4th. From an order directing the sale or conveyance of real

property:
5th. From an order or decree by which a debt, claim, legacy, or
distributive share is allowed, or payment thereof directed ; or by which ,

such allowance or direction is refused : ‘
6th. From an order made on the settlement of an executor,

administrator, or guardian.
§ 364. The appeal shall be taken within thirty days after the order ,
or decree appealed from is entered with the Clerk. ‘
§ 365. Appeals from the Probate Courts shall be heard at the special i
terms of the District Courts, and be brought on at the earliest period
practicable.

CHAPTER V.

APPEALS TO THE COUNTY COURTS FROM JUSTICES’ AND RECORDERS’
COURTS.

§ 366. Judgments in all civil cases rendered by 'Justices’ and Recorders’ Courts may be reviewed by the County Court. The manner of ‘

appealing, and the papers to be furnished, and the security to be given,
are prescribed in Titles XVI. and XVII. of this Act.

§ 367. Upon an appeal the Court may review all orders affecting the
judgment, and may reverse, allirm, or modify the judgment appealed
from; and may set aside, or confirm, or modify any or al lof the proceedings subsequent to, and dependent upon, such judgment, and may, if
necessary or proper, order a new trial.

T I T L E X .
Miscellaneous Proceedings.

CHAPTER I.

PROCEEDINGS AGAINST JOINT DEBTORS.

7 § 368. When a judgmentis recovered against one or more of several
, persons, jointly indebted upon an obligation, by proceeding, as pro’ vided in section 32, those who were not originally served with the
summons, and did not appear to the action, may be summoned to show
cause why they should not be bound by the judgment, in the same
manner as though they had been originally served with the summons.
§ 369. The summons, as provided in the last section, shall describe
the judgment, and require the person summoned to show cause why he
should not be bound by it, and shall be served in the same manner, and
returnable within the same time, as the original, summons. It shall not
be necessary to file a new complaint.

 370. The summons should be accompanied by an affidavit of the
plaintiil‘, his agent, representative, or attorney, that the judgment or
some part thereof remains unsatisiied; and shall specify the amount due
thereon.

§ 37]. Upon such summons the defendant may answer within the
time specified therein, denying the judgment, or setting up any defense
which may have arisen subsequently ; or he may deny his liability on
the obligation upon which the judgment was recovered, except a discharge from such liability by the statute of limitation. .

§ 372. If the defendant in his answer deny the judgment, or set up
any defense, which may have arisen subsequently, the summons, with
the aliidavit annexed, and the answer, shall constitute the written allegations in the case: if he deny his liability on the obligation upon which
the judgment was recovered, a copy of the original complaint and judg—
ment, the summons, with the affidavit annexed, and the answer, shall
constitute such written allegations.

§ 373. The issues formed may be tried as in other cases; but when
the defendant denies, in his answer, any liability on the obligation upon
which the judgment was rendered, if a verdict be found against him, it
shall be for the amount remaining unsatished on such original judgment,
with interest thereon.

CHAPTER II.

CONFESSION OF JUDGMENT WITHOUT ACTION.

§ 374. A judgment by confession may be entered without action, ‘
either for money due, or to become due, or to secure any person ‘
against contingent liability on behalf of the defendant, or both, in the
manner prescribed by this chapter.
§ 37 5. A statement in writing shall be made, signed by the defendant, and verified by his oath, to the following eEect:
lst. It shall authorize the entry of judgment for a specified
sum:
2d. If it be for money due, or to become due, it shall state concisely the facts out of which it arose, and shall show that the sum confessed therefore is justly due, or to become due:
3d. If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintifff against a
contingent liability, it shall state concisely the facts constituting the
liability, and shall show that the sum confessed therefore does not exceed
the same.
§ 376. The statement shall be filed with the Clerk of the County in
which the judgment is to be entered, who shall endorse upon it, and
enter in the Judgment Book a judgment of such Court, for the amount
copfessed, with ten dollars costs. The statement and affidavit, with the
judgment endorsed, shall thereupon become the judgment roll.

CHAPTER III.

SUBMITTING A CONTROVERSY WITHOUT ACTION.

§ 377. Parties to a question in difference, which might be the sub- ‘
ject of a civil action, may, without action, agree upon a case containing 1
the facts upon which the controversy depends, and present a submission '
of the same to any Court which should have jurisdiction, if an action
had been brought. But it must appear, by athdavit, that the controversy is real, and the proceedings in good faith, to determine the rights
of the parties. The Court shall thereupon hear and determine
the case, and render judgment thereon, as if an action were
depending.

§ 378. Judgment shall be entered in the Judgment Book, as in
other cases, but without costs, for any proceeding prior to the trial.
The case, the submission, and a copy of the judgment shall constitute
the judgment roll.

§ 379. The judgment may be enforced in the same manner as if it
had been rendered in an action, and shall be in the same manner subject to appeal.
CHAPTER IV.

OF ARBITRATIONB.

§ 880. Persons capable of contracting may submit to arbitration
any controversy which might be the subject of a civil action between

them, except a question of {title to real property in fee or for life.
This qualification shall not include questions relating merely to the partition or boundaries of real property.
§ 381. The submission to arbitration shall be in writing, and may be
to one or more persons.
§ 382. It may be stipulated in the submission, that it be entered as
an order of the County Court, or of the District Court, for which purpose it shall be filed with the Clerk of the County where the parties, or
one of them, reside. The Clerk shall, thereupon, enter in his register
of actions a note of the submission, with the names of the parties, the
names of the arbitrators, the date of the submission, when filed, and
the time limited by the submission, if any, within which the award
shall be made. When so entered, the submission shall not .be revoked
'without the consent of both parties. The arbitrators may be compelled
by the Court to make an award, and the award may be enforced by the
Court, in the same manner as a judgment. If the submission be not
made an order of the Court, it may be revoked at any time before the
award is made.
§ 383. Arbitrators shall have power to appoint a time and place for
hearing, to adjourn from time to time, to administer oaths to witnesses,
to hear the allegations and evidence of the parties, and to make an
award thereon. ‘
’ § 384. All the arbitrators shall meet and act together during the
investigation; but when met, a majority may determine any question.
Before acting, they shall be sworn before an odicer authorized to administer oaths, faithfully and fairly to hear and examine the allegations
and evidence of the parties, in relation to the matters in controversy,
and to make a just award according to their understanding.
§ 385. The award shall be in writing, signed by the arbitrators, or a
majority of them, and delivered to the parties. When the submission
is made an order of the Court, the award shall be filed with the Clerk,
and a note thereof made in his register. After the expiration of five
days from the filing of the award, upon the application of a party, and
on filing an allidavit, showing that notice of filing the award has been
served on the adverse party or his Attorney, at least four days prior to
such application, and that no order staying the entry of judgment has
been served, the award shall be entered by the Clerk in the Judgment
Book, and shall thereupon have the effect of a judgment.
§ 386. The Court, on motion, may vacate the award upon either of
the following grounds, and may order a new hearing before the same
arbitrators, or not, in its discretion :
1st. That it was procured by corruption or fraud:
2d. That the arbitrators were guilty of misconduct, or committed gross error in refusing, on cause shown, to postpone the
hearing, or in refusing to hear pertinent evidence, or otherwise acted
improperly, in a manner by which the rights of the party were prejudiced :

That the arbitrators exceeded their powers in making their award ;
or that they refused, or imprOperly omitted, to consider a part of the
matters submitted to them; or that the award is indefinite, or cannot
be performed.

§ 387. The Court, may, on motion, modify or correct the award,
where it appears:
lst. That there was a miscalculation in tigures, upon which it
was made, or that there is a mistake in the description of some person
or property therein :

2d. When a part of the award is upon matters not submitted,
which part can be separated from other parts, and does not affect the
decision on the matter submitted:

3d. When the award, though imperfect in form, could have
been amended if it had been a verdict, or the imperfection disregarded.

§ 388. The decision upon the motion shall be subject to appeal in the
same manner as an order which is subject to appeal in a civil action ; but
the judgment entered before a motion is made shall not be subject to appeal.

§ 389. If a submission to arbitration be revoked, and an action be
brought therefore, the amount to be recovered shall only be the costs and
damages sustained in preparing for and attending the arbitration.

CHAPTER V.

OFFER OF THE DEFENDANT T0 COMPROMISE THE WHOLE OR A PART
OF AN ACTION.

§ 390. The defendant may, at any time before the trial or judgment,
serve upon the plaintifff an offer to allow judgment to be taken against
him, for the sum or property, or to the effect therein specified. If the
plaintifff accept the offer, and give notice thereof within five days, he
may file the summons, complaint, and od'er, with an aliidavit of notice
of acceptance, and the Clerk shall thereupon enter judgment accordingly. If the notice of acceptance be not given, the offer shall be deemed
withdrawn, and shall not be given in evidence; and if the plaintid' fail
to obtain a more favorable judgment, he shall not recover costs, but
shall pay the defendant’s costs, from the time of the offer.

T I T L E X I .
0f Witnesses, and of the Manner of Obtaining Evidence.

CHAPTER I.

0F WITNESSES.

§ 391. All persons, without exception, otherwise than as specified in
this chapter, may be witnesses in any action or proceeding.

1
1

A

4

l

l
t

1

§ 392. No person offered as a witness shall be excluded by reason of 1
his interest in the event of the action or proceeding; nor on account of 1

Opinions on matters of religious belief.
§ 393. The provision of the last section that no person shall be exeluded by reason of his interest in the event of an action or proceeding,
shall not apply to a party in such a proceeding, nor to any person for
whose immediate benefit it is prosecuted or defended. The examination of such party or person shall be taken as provided in chapter
third in this Title.
§ 394. The following persons shall not be witnesses: ‘
lst. Those who areof unsound mind at the time of their production for examination:
2d. Children under ten years of age, who appear incapable of
receiving just impressions of the facts respecting which they are
examined, or of relating them truly: and,
3d. Indians, or persons having one fourth or more of Indian
blood, in an action or proceeding to which a white person is a party:
4th. Negroes, or persons having one half or more Negro blood,
in an action or proceeding to which a white person is a party.
§ 395. A husband shall not be a witness for or against his wife, nor
a wife a witness for or against her husband; nor can either, during the
marriage, or aherwards, be, without the consent of the other, examined
as to any communication made by one to the other during the marriageBut this exception shall not apply to an action or proceeding by one
against the other. ‘
§ 396. An Attorney or Counsellor shall not, without the consent of
his client, be examined as a witness as [to] any communication made
by the client to him, or his advice given thereon, in the course of professional employment.
§ 397. A clgrgyman or priest shall not, without the consent of the
person making the confession, be examined as a witness as to any confession made to him in his professional character, in the course of discipline
enjoined by the church to which he belongs.
§ 998. A licensed physician or surgeon shall not, without the consent of his patient, be examined as a witness, as to any information
acquired in attending the patient, which 'was necessary to enable him to
prescribe or act for the patient.
§ 399. A public officer shall not be examined as a witness as to
communications made to him in otiicial confidence, when the public
interest would suffer by the disclosure.
§ 400. The Judge himself, or any Juror, may be called as a witness
by either party; but in such case it shall be in the discretion of the
Court or Judge to order the trial to be postponed or suspended, and to
take place before another Judge or Jury.
§ 401. When a witness does not understand and speak the English
language, an interpreter shall be sworn  interpret for him.

CHAPTER II.

manna or coMPnLuNe ms arrannsxcn or wrmnssss, AND mam
moms AND nouns.
§ 402. A subpoena may require not only the personal attendance of 1
the person to whom it is directed at a particular time and place, to testify as a witness, but may also require him to bring with him any books,
documents, or other things under his control. No witnesses shall be
required to attend before any Court, Judge, Justice, or other officer, out
of the county in which he resides.
§ 403. The subpmna shall be issued as follows: I
let. To require attendance before a Court, or at the trial of an
issue therein, it shall be issued in the name and under the seal of the
.Court before which the attendance is required, or in which the issue is
pending:
2d. To require attendance out of Court before a Judge, Justice,
or other officer, authorized to administer oaths, or take testimony in any
matter, under the laws of this State; it shall be issued by the Judge,
J 6am other ot‘n‘cer before whom the attendance is required :
Q . To require attendance before a commissioner appointed to take
tee 'mony by a Court of any other State or County, it may be issued by
any Judge or Justice of the Peace, in places within their respective
jurisdich'sms.
§ 404. 3 6 service of a subpoena shall be made by showing the origi- I
. as], and d vering a copy, or a ticket containing its substance, to the
witness personally, giving or offering to him at the same time, if
demanded by him, the fees to which he is entitled for travel to and
from the place designated, and one day’s attendance there. Such service may be made by any person.
§ 405. If a witness be concealed in a building or vessel, so as to pre- I
vent the service of a subpoena upon him, any Court or Judge, or any i
odicer issuing the subpoena, may, upon proof by atiidavit of the concealment and, of. the materiality of the witness, make an order that the
Sheriff of the county serve the subpoena; and the Sheriff shall serve it
accordingly, and for that purpose may break into the building or vessel
where the witness is concealed.
§ 406. A person present in Court, or before a judicial officer, may be 1
required to testify, in the same manner as if he were in attendance upon 1
a subpoena issued by such Court or officer. ‘
§ 407. It shall be the duty of atwitness, d served with a subpoena, ‘
to attend at the time appointed, with any pers Junder his control i
required by the subpoena, to answer all perti ' t and legal questions;
and unlem sooner discharged, to remain till th . timony is closed.
§ 408. A witness shall answer questions legal and pertinent to the
matter in issue, though his answer may establish a claim against himself; but he need not give an answer which will have a tendency to

subject him to punishment for a felony; nor need give an‘answer which
will have a direct tendency to degrade his character, unless it be to the
very fact in issue, or to a fact from which the fact at issue would be presumed. But a witness shall answer as to the fact of his previous conviction for felony.

§ 409. Disobedience to a subpoena, or a refusal to be sworn, or to
answer as a witness, or to subscribe an aleavit or deposition when
required, may be punished as a contempt by the Court, or officer issuing
the subpoena, or requiring the witness to be sworn; and if the witness be
a party, his complaint may be dismissed, or his answer stricken out.

§ 410. A witness disobeying a subpoena shall also forfeit to the party
' aggrieved the sum of one hundred dollars, and all damages which he
may sustain by the failure of the witness to attend; which forfeiture and
damages may be recovered in a civil action. '

§ 411. In case of failure of a witness to attend, the Court or emcer
’ issuing the subpoena, upon proof of the service thereof, and of the failure
of the witness, may issue a warrant to the Sherid‘ of the County to arrest
the witness and bring him before the Court or emcer where his attendance was required.

§ 412. If the witness be a prisoner, confined in a jail or prison
‘ within this State, for any other cause than a sentence for felony, an
order for his examination in the prison upon deposition, or for his temporary removal and production before a Court or officer for the purpose
of being orally examined, may be made, as follows :
lst. By the Court itself, in which the action or special proceeding
is pending: ' '

2d. By a Judge of the Supreme Court, District Court, or County

Judge of the County where the action or proceeding is pending, if
before a Judge or other person out of Court.

§ 413. Such order can only be made upon affidavit, showing the
nature of the action or proceeding, the testimony expected from the
witness, and its materiality.

§ 414. If the witness be imprisoned in the County where the action
or proceeding is pending, and for a cause other than a sentence for
felony, his production may be required. In all other cases, his examination, when allowed, shall be taken upon deposition.

§ 415. Every person who has been in good faith served with a sub
poena to attend as a witness before a Court, Judge, Commissioner,
Referee, or other person, in a case where the disobedience of the witness
may be punished as a contempt, shall be exonerated from arrest, in a
civil action, while going to the place of attendance, necessarily remaining
there, and returning therefrom.

§ 416. The arrest of a witness contrary to the last section shall be
void; but an other shall not be liable to the party for making the arrest
in ignoranw of the facts creating the exoneration, but shall be liable for

any subsequent detention of the party, if such party claim the exemption
and make an affidavit stating:

1st. That he has been served with a subpoena to attend as a witness before a Court, other, or other person; specifying the same, the
place of attendance, and the action or proceeding in which the subpmna
was issued; and,

‘ 2d. That he has not been thus served by his own procurement

with the intention of avoiding an arrest:

3d. That he is at the time going to the place of attendance, or
returning therefrom, or remaining there in obedience to the subpoena.
The affidavit may be taken by the oHicer, and shall exonerate him from
liability for discharging the witness when arrested.

0 CHAPTER IIL

OF THE EXAMINATION OF PARTIES TO AN ACTION OR PROCEEDING,
AND OF PERSONS FOR WHOSE IMMEDIATE BENEFIT SUCH ACTION
OR PROCEEDING IS PROSECUTED OR DEFENDED.

§ 417. No action to obtain a discovery under oath, in aid of the
prosecution or defense of another action or proceeding, shall be allowed,
nor shall any examination of a party he had on behalf of the adverse
party, except in the manner prescribed by this chapter.

§ 418. A party to an action or proceeding may be examined as a
witness, at the instance of the adverse party, or of any one of several
adverse parties; and for that purpose may be compelled, in the same
manner, and subject to the same rules of examination as any other
witness, to testify at the trial, and he may be examined on a commission.

§ 419. The examination of a party, thus taken, may be rebutted by
adverse testimony.

§ 420. If a party refuse to attend and testify at the trial, or to give
his deposition before trial, or upon a commission when required, his
complaint, answer, or reply may be stricken out, and judgment be taken
against him; and he may be also, in the discretion of the Court, proceeded against as in other cases for a contempt. _

§ 421. A party examined by an adverse party, as in this chapter
provided, may be examined on his own behalf in respect to any matter
pertinent to the issue. But if he testify to any new matter not responsive to the inquiries put to him by the adverse party, or necessary to
explain or qualify his answer thereto; or to discharge, when his answer
would charge himself, such adverse party may offer himself as a witness on his own behalf in respect to such new matter; and shall be so
received.

§ 422. A person for whose immediate benefit the action is prosecuted
or defended, though not a party to the action, may be examined as a
witness, in the same manner, and subject to the same rules of examination, as if he were named as a party.

§ 423. A party may be examined on the part of his co-plaintifff
or a co-defendant; but the examination thus taken shall not be used
on behalf of the party examined, except as against the examining

party.

CHAPTER IV.
ON arrrnsvrrs.

§.424. An affidavit to be used before any Court, Judge, or other of
this State, may be taken before any Judge or Clerk of any Court, or
any Justice of the Peace, or Notary Public in this State.

§ 425. An atiidavit taken in another State of the United States, to
be used in this State, shall be taken before a Commissioner appointed
by the Governor of this State to take atiidavits and depositions in
such other State, or before any Judge of a Court of record having a.
seal.

§ 426. An affidavit taken in a foreign country to be used in this
State, shall be taken before an ambassador, minister, or consul of the
United States, or before any Judge of a Court of record having a seal
in such foreign country.

§ 427. When an aHidavit is taken before a Judge of a Court in
another State, or in a foreign country, the genuineness of the signature
of the Judge, the existence of the Court, and the fact that such Judge
is a member thereof, shall be certified by the Clerk of the Court under

the seal thereof.
CHAPTER V.

0]? DEPOSITIONB TAKEN IN THIS STATE.

§ 428. The testimony of a witness in this State may be taken by
deposition in an action at any time after the service of the summons or
the appearance of the defendant; and in a special proceeding, after a
question of fact has arisen therein, in the following cases :
lst. When the witness is a party to the action or proceeding, or
a person for whose immediate benefit the action or proceeding is prosecuted or defended :
2d. When the witness resides out of the county in which his
testimony is to be used:
3d. When the witness is about to leave the county where the
action is to be tried, and will probably continue absent when the testimony is required:
4th. When the witness, otherwise liable to attend the trial, is
nevertheless too infirm to attend. .
§ 429. Either party may have the deposition taken of a witness in
this State, before any Judge or Clerk, or any Justice of the Peace, or
Notary Public in this State, on serving upon the adverse party previous
notice of the time and place of examination, together with a copy of an
affidavit, showing that the case is one mentioned in_ the last section.

Such notice shall be at least five days, and in addition one day for every
twenty-live miles of the distance of the place of examination from the
residence of the person to whom the notice is given, unless for a cause
shown, a Judge, by order, prescribe a shorter time. When a shorter
time is prescribed, a copy of the order shall be served with the
notice.

§ 430. Either party may attend such examination and put such questions, direct and cross, as may be proper. The deposition, when completed, shall be carefully read to the witness and corrected by him in
any particular, if desired; it shall then be subscribed by the witness,
certified by the Judge or officer taking the deposition, inclosed in an
envelope or wrapper sealed, and directed to the Clerk of the Court in
which the action is pending, or to such person as the parties in writing
mayagree upon, and either delivered by the Judge or officer to the Clerk
or such person, or transmitted through the mail, or by some safe private
opportunity ; and thereupon such deposition may be used by either
party upon the trial, or other proceeding, against any party giving or
receiving the notice, subject to all legal exceptions. But if the parties
attend at the examination, no objection to the form of an interrogatory
shall be made at the trial, unless the same was stated at the time of the
examination. If the deposition be taken by the reason of the absence
or intended absence from the county of the witness, or because he is-too
infirm to attend, proof by affidavit or oral testimony shall be made at
the trial that the witness continues absent, or infirm, to the best of the
deponent’s knowledge or belief. The deposition thus taken may be also
read in case of the death of the witness.

§ 431. When a deposition has been once taken, it may be read in any
stage of the same action or proceeding by either party, and shall then
be deemed the evidence of the party reading it.

CHAPTER VI.

03' DEPOSITIONB TAKEN OUT OF THIS STATE.
0

§ 432. The testimony of a witness out of the State may be taken by
deposition in an action at any time after the service of the summons or
the appearance of the defendant; and in a special proceeding, at any
time after a question of fact has arisen therein.

§ 433.~The deposition of a witness out of this State shall be taken
upon commission issued from the Court, under the seal of the Court, upon
an order of the Judge, or Court, or County Judge, on the application of
either party, upon five days’ previous notice to the other. It shall be
issued to a person agreed upon by the parties, or if they do not agree,
to any Judge or Justice of the Peace selected by the officer granting the
commission, or to a commissioner appointed by the Governor of this
State to take affidavits and depositions in other States.

§ 434. Such proper interrogatories, direct and cross, as the respective
parties may prepare, to be settled if the parties disagree as to their form,

l

by the Judge or officer granting the order for the commission, at a day
fixed in the order, may be annexed to the commission; or when the
parties agree to that mode, the examination may be without written
interrogatories.

§ 435. The commission shall authorize the commissioner to administer
an oath to the witness, and to take his deposition in answer to the interrogatories, or when the examination is to be without interrogatories, in
respect to the question in dispute; and to certify the deposition to the
Court, in a sealed envelope directed .to the Clerk or other person designated or agreed upon, and forwarded to him by mail or other usual channel of conveyance.

§ 436. A trial, or other proceeding, shall not be postponed by reason
of a commission not returned, except upon evidence satisfactory to the
Court that the testimony of the witness is necessary, and that proper
diligence has been used to obtain it.

CHAPTER VII.

OI" PROCEEDINGS TO PERPETUATE TESTIMONY.

§ 437. The testimony of a witness maybe taken and perpetuated, as
provided in this chapter.
§ 438. The applicant shall produce to a District Judge, or to a
County Judge, an affidavit stating: '
lst. That the applicant expects to be a party to an action, in a
Court of this State :
2d. That the testimony of a‘ witness residing in this State, whose
place of residence is stated, is necessary to the prosecution or defense of
such action ; and generally the facts expected to be proved:
3d. That the party named who is expected to be adverse to the
applicant resides or is at the time in this State. The Judge may,
thereupon, in his discretion, make an order allowing the examination,
and prescribing how long before the examination the order and notice
of the time and place thereof shall be served.
§ 439. Upon proof of personal service upon the person who is
expected to be the adverse party of the order, copy of the affidavit,
and of a notice that the examination will be taken before a District
Judge, or County Judge of the county wherein the witness resides, or
may be at a specified time and place; such Judge may take the deposition of the witness, and the examination may, if necessary, be
adjourned from time to time.
§ 440. The examination shall be by question and answer, unless the
parties otherwise agree. The deposition, when completed, shall be
carefully read to and subscribed by the witness, then certified by the
Judge, and immediately thereafter filed in the office of the Clerk of the
County where it was taken ; together with the order for the examination of the witness, the atiidavit on which the same was granted, and
the atiidavit of service of the affidavit, order, and notice.

§ 441. The aliidavits filed with the deposition, or a certified copy 1
thereof, shall be primary evidence of the facts stated therein, to show i
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.

§ 442. If a trial he had between the persons named in the affidavit i
as parties expectant, or their successors in interest, upon proof of the death i
or insanity of the witness, or of his inability to attend the trial by
reason of age, sickness, or settled infirmity, the deposition or a certified
copy thereof may be used by either party subject to all legal objections.
But if the parties attend at the examination no objection to the form of
an interrogatory shall be made at the trial, unless the same was stated
at the time of the examination.

CHAPTER VIII.

ADMINISTRATION OF DATES AND AFFIRHATIONS.

§ 443. Every Court of this State, every Judge or Clerk of any ‘
Court, every Justice of the Peace, and every Notary Public, and every i
officer authorized to take testimony or to deside upon evidence in any
proceeding, shall have power to administer oaths or allirmations.

§ 444. When a person is sworn who believes in any other than the 1
Christian religion, he may be sworn according to the peculiar ceremonies of his religion, if there be any such.

§ 445. Any witness who desires it may, at his option, instead of 3
taking an oath, make his solemn adirmation or declaration, by assenting, ‘
when addressed, in the following form: “ You do solemnly adirm,

that the evidence you shall give in this issue (or matter), pending
between and , shall be the truth, the whole truth, and
nothing but the truth.” Assent to this atBrm‘ation shall be made by
the answer, “ I do.” A false atIirmation or declaration shall be deemed 1

peljury, equally with a false oath.

er

 

 

CHAPTER IX.

INSPECTION OF DOCUMENTS, AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS AS TO
RECORDS AND WRITINGS.

§ 446. Any Court in which an action is pending, or a Judge thereof,
or a County Judge, may, upon notice, o'rder either party to give to the
other within a specified time an inspection and copy, or permission to
take a copy of any book, document, or paper in his possession, or under
his control, containing evidence relating to the merits of the action, or
the defense therein. If compliance with the order be refused, the
Court may exclude the book, document, or paper, from being given in
evidence; or if wanted as evidence by the party applying, may direct
the jury to presume it to Much as he alleges it to be; and the Court
may also punish the party refusing for a contempt. This section shall
not be construed to prevent a party from compelling another to produce
1300'“, papers, or documents, when he is examined as a witness.

§ 447. There shall be no evidence of the contents of a writing, 7

other than the writing itself, except in the following cases:

lst. When the original has been lost or destroyed; in which
case proof of the loss or destruction shall first be made :

2d. When the original is in the possession of the party against
whom the evidence is offered, and he fails to produce it ader reasonable notice: ‘

3d. When the original is a record or other document, in the
custody of a public officer :

4th. When the original has been recorded, and a certified copy
of the record is made evidence by statute:

‘ 5th. When the original consists of numerous accounts or other
documents, which cannot be examined in, Court without great loss of
time, and the evidence sought from them is only the general result of
the whole.

§ 448. The party producing a writing as genuine, which has been
altered, or appears to have been altered, aRer its execution, in a part
’ material to the question in dispute, and such alteration is not noted on
the writing, shall account for the appearance or alteration. He may
show that the alteration was made by another, without his concurrence,
or was made with the consent of the parties affected by it, or otherwise
properly or innocently made. If he do that, he may give the writing
in evidence, but not otherwise.

§ 449. A judicial record of this State, or of the United States, may
be proved by the production of the original, or a copy thereof, certitied
by the Clerk, or other person having the legal custody thereof, under
the seal of the Court, to be a true copy of such record.

§ 450. A judicial record of a sister State may be proved by the
production of a copy thereof, certified by the Clerk or legal keeper of
the record under the seal of the Court, to be a true copy of such record.
together with the certificate of a Judge of the Court, that the person
making the certificate is the Clerk of the Court, or legal keeper of the
record, and in either case that the signature is genuine, and the certificate in due form.

§ 451. A judicial record of a foreign country may be proved by the
production of a copy thereof, certified by the Clerk, with the seal of the
Court annexed, if there be a Clerk and seal; or by the legal keeper of
the record with the seal of his office annexed, if there be a seal, to be a
true copy of such record: together with a certificate of a Judge of the
Court, that the person making the certificate is the Clerk of the Court,
or the legal keeper of the record, and in either case, that the signature
is genuine, and the certificate in due form; and also together with the
certificate of the minister or ambassador of the United States or of a
consul of the United States, in such foreign country, that there is such
a Court, specifying generally the nature of its jurisdiction, and verifying

the signature of the Judge and Clerk," or other legal keeper of the
record.
§ 452. A copy of the judicial record of a foreign country shall also '
be admissible in evidence upon proof:
lst. That the wpy offered has been compared by the witness
with the original, and is an exact transcript of the whole of it :
2d. That such original was in the custody of the Clerk of the
Court, or other legal keeper of the same: and,
3d. That the copy is duly attested by a seal, which is proved to
be the seal of the Court where the record remains, if it be the record
of a Court; or if there be no such seal, or if it be not a record of a
Court, by the signature of the legal keeper of the original.
§ 453. Printed copies in volumes of statutes, code, or other written
law, enacted by any other State, or territory, or foreign government,
purporting or proved to have been published by the authority thereof,
or proved to be commonly admitted as evidence of the existing law, in
the Courts and judicial tribunals of such State, territory, or government, shall be admitted by the Courts and officers of this State, on all
occasions, as presumptive evidence of such laws. .
§ 454. A seal of a Court or public office, when required to any writ
or process, or proceeding, or to authenticate a copy of any record or
document, may be impressed with wax, wafer, or any other substance,
and then attached to the writ, process, or proceeding, or to the copy
of the record or document, or it may be impressed on the paper
alone.

T I T L E X I I .
0f the Writ of Certiorari and qf Mandamus.

CHAPTER I.

THE WRIT OI“ CERTIOBARI, OR REVIEW.

§ 455. The writ of certiorari may be denominated the writ of
review. ‘

§ 456. This writ may be granted on application by any Court of this
State, except a Justice’s, or Recorder’s, or Mayor’s Court; the writ shall
be granted in all cases when an inferior tribunal, board, or officer, exercising judicial functions, has exceeded the jurisdiction of such tribunal,
board, or odicer; and there is no appeal, nor, in the judgment of the
Court, any plain, speedy, and adequate remedy.

§ 457. The application shall be made on aHidavit by the party bene- ,
ticially interested, and the Court may require a notice of the application :
to be given to the adverse party, or may grant an order to show cause
why it should not be allowed, or may grant the writ without notice.

§ 458. The writ may be directed to the inferior tribunal, board or‘
officer, or to any other person having the custody of the record or pro.ceedings to be certified. When directed to a tribunal, the clerk, if there
be one, shall return the writ with the transcript required.
§ 459. The writ of review shall command the party to whom it is
directed to certify fully to the Court issuing the writ, at a specified time
and place, and annex to the writ a transcript of the record and proceed
ings (describing or referring to them, with convenient certainty), that
the same may be reviewed by the Court; and requiring the party in
the meantime to desist from further proceedings in the matter to bereviewed. § 460. If a stay of proceedings be not intended, the words 
the stay shall be omitted from the writ; these words may be inserted or
omitted in the sound discretion of the Court; but if omitted, the power
of the inferior Court or officer shall not be suspended, nor the proceedings
stayed.
§ 461. The writ shall be served in the same manner as a summons
in civil action, except when otherwise expressly directed by the Court.
§ 462. The review upon this writ shall not be extended further than
to determine whether the'inferior tribunal, board, or officer has regularly
pursued the authority of such tribunal, board, or officer.
§ 463. If the return to the writ be defective, the Court may order a
further return to be made. When a full return has been made, the
Court shall proceed to hear the parties, or such of them as may attend
for that purpose, and may thereupon give judgment, either affirming, or
annulling, or modifying the proceedings below.
§ 464. A copy of the judgment, signed by the Clerk, shall be transmitted to the inferior tribunal, board, or otIicer having the custody of the
record or proceeding certified up.
§ 465. A copy of the judgment, signed by the Clerk, entered upon,
or attached to, the writ and return, shall constitute the judgment roll. If
the proceeding be had in any other than the Supreme Court, an appeal
may be taken from the judgment in the same manner, and upon the
same terms, as from a judgment in a civil action.

CHAPTER II.
THE warr or manna, on. nannuws.

§ 466. The writ of mandamus may be denominated the writ of
mandate. ‘

§ 467. It may be issued by any Court in this State, except a J ustice’s, Recorder’s, or Mayor’s Court, to any inferior tribunal, corporation,
board, or person, to compel the performance of an act, which the law
specially enjoins, as a duty resulting from an othe, trust, or station; or
to compel the admission of a party to the use and enjoyment of a right,
or office to which he is entitled, and from which he is unlawfully precluded by such inferior tribunal, corporation, board, or person.

§ 468. This writ shall be issued in all cases where there is not a
plain, speedy, and adequate remedy, in the ordinary course of law. It

shall be issued upon affidavit, on the application of the party benefrciall y
interested.

§ 469. The writ shall be either alternative or peremptory; the alter- 
native writ shall state generally the allegation against the party to :
whom it is directed, and command such party, immediately aRer the
receipt of the writ, or at some other specified time, to do the act required
to be performed, or to show cause before the Court, at a specified time
and place, why he has not done so. The peremptory writ shall be in a
similar form, except that the words requiring the party to show cause
why he has not done as commanded shall be omitted, and a return day
shall be inserted. ‘

§ 470. When the application to the Court is made without notice to l
the adverse party, and the writ be allowed, the alternative shall be first :
issued; but if the application be upon due notice, and the writ be :
allowed, the peremptory may be issued in the first instance. The notice
of the application, when given, shall be at least ten days. The writ shall
be granted by default. The case shall be heard by the Court, whether
the adverse party appear or not.

§ 471. On the return day of the alternative, or the day on which the I
application of the writ is noticed, or such further day as the Court may i
allow, the party on whom the writ or notice shall have been served may '
show cause by answer under oath, made in the same manner as an
answer to a complaint in a civil action.

§ 472. If an answer be made, which raises a question as to a matter r
of fact essential to the determination of the motion, and affecting the :
substantial rights of the parties, and upon the supposed truth of the alle- ‘
gation of which the application for the writ is based, the Court may, in
its discretion, order the question to be tried before a jury, and postpone
the argument until such trial can be had, and the verdict certified to the
Court. The question to be tried shall be distinctly stated in the order
for trial, and the county shall be designated in which the same shall be
had. The order may also direct the jury to assess any damages which
the applicant may have sustained in case they find for him.

§ 473. On the trial, the applicant shall not be precluded by the:
answer of any valid objection to its sufiiciency, and may countervail it i
by proof either in direct denial or by way of avoidance. 1

§ 474. If either party he dissatisfied with the verdict of the jury, hej
may move for a new trial upon a statement prepared as provided in sec- '
tion 195. The motion for a new trial may, upon reasonable notice, be
brought on before the Judge of the Court in which the cause was tried,
either in term or vacation. If a new trial be granted, the jury shall,
within five days thereaiter, unless the parties agree on a longer time, be
summoned to try the issue. After a second verdict in favor of the same
party, a new trial shall not be had.

§ 475. If no notice for a new trial be given, or if given, be denied,
the Clerk, within five days after the rendition of the verdict or denial of

the motion, shall transmit to the Court in which the application for the
writ is pending, a certified copy of the verdict attached to the order of
trial; aRer which either party may bring on the argument of the application, upon reasonable notice to the adverse party.

§ 476. If no answer be made, the case shall be heard on the papers .
of the applicant. If an answer be made which does not raise a question
such as is mentioned in section 472, but only such matters as may be
explained or avoided by a reply, the Court may, in its discretion, grant
time for replying. If the answer, or answer and reply, raise only questions of law, or put in issue immaterial statements, not affecting the substantial rights of the parties, the Court shall proceed to hear, or fix a
day for hearing the argument of the case.
_ § 477. If judgment be given for the applicant, he shall recover the

damages which he shall have sustained as found by the jury, or as may

be determined by the Court, or referees, upon a reference to be ordered,
together with costs; and for such damages and costs, an execution may
issue; and a peremptory mandate shall also be awarded without delay.

§ 478. The writ shall be served in the same manner as a summons
in a civil action, except when otherwise expressly directed by order of
the Court.

§ 479. When a peremptory mandate has been issued and directed to
any inferior tribunal, corporation, board, or person, if it appear to the
Court that any member of such tribunal, corporation, or board, or such
person upon whom the writ has been personally served, has, without
just excuse, refused or neglected to obey the same, the Court may, upon
motion, impose a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars. In case of
persistance in a refusal of obedience, the Court may order the party to
be imprisoned for a period not exceeding three months, and may take
any orders necessary and proper. for the complete enforcement of the
writ. If a fine be imposed upon a judge or oHicer who draws a salary
from the State or County, a certified copy of the order shall be forwarded
to the Comptroller, or County Treasurer, as the case may be, and the
amount thereof may be retained from the salary of such judge or officer.
Such judge or oHicer for his willful disobedience shall also be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor in office.

T I T L E X I I 1.
0f C’on tempts and their Punishments.

§ 480. The following acts or omissions shall be deemed contempts:

lst. Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior towards the
Judge whilst holding Court, or engaged in his judicial duties at Cham.
here, or towards Referees or Arbitrators whilst sitting on a reference or
arbitration, tending to interrupt the due course of a trial, reference, or
arbitration, or other judicial proceeding:

2d. A. breach of the peace, boisterous conduct, or violent disturbance in presence of the Court or its immediate vicinity, tending to interrupt the due course of a trial, or other judicial proceeding:
8d. Disobedience or resistance to any lawful writ, order, rule, or
process, issued by the Court, or Judge at Chambers:
4th. Disobedience of a subpoena duly served, or refusing to be
sworn or answer as a witness : \
5th. Rescuing any person or property in the custody of any Officer, by virtue of an order of process of such Court or Judge at
Chambers.
§ 481. When a contempt is committedin the immediate view and
presence of the Court, or Judge at Chambers, it may be punished summarin ; for which an order shall be made reciting the facts as occurring
in such immediate view and presence, adjudging that the person
proceeded against is thereby guilty of a contempt, and that he be pun'nhed as therein prescribed. When the contempt is not committed in
the immediate view and presence of the Court, or Judge at Chambers,
an affidavit shall be presented to the Court or Judge, of the facts
constituting the contempt, or a statement of the facts by the Referees or
Arbitrators.
§ 482. When the contempt is not committed in the immediate view
and presence of the Court or Judge, a warrant of attachment may be
issued to bring the person charged to answer, or without a previous
arrest, a warrant of commitment may upon notice, or upon an order to
show cause, be granted; and no warrant of commitment shall be issued
without such previous attachment to answer, or such notice or order to
show cause.
§ 483. Whenever a warrant of attachment is issued pursuant to this
chapter, the Court or Judge shall direct whether the person charged
may be let to bail for his appearance upon the warrant, or detained in
custody without bail; and if he may be bailed, the amount in which he
may be let to bail. The directions given in this respect shall be specined in the warrant, or endorsed thereon.
§ 484. Upon executing the warrant of attachment, the Sheriff shall
keep the person in custody, bring him before the Court or Judge, and
detain him until an order be made in the premises, unless the
person arrested entitle himself to be discharged, as provided in the next
section. “
§ 485. When a direction to let the person arrested to bail is contained in the warrant of attachment, or endorsed thereon, he shall be
discharged from the arrest, upon executing and delivering tothe Oliicer,
at any time before the return day of the warrant, a written undertaking,
with two suHicient sureties, to the effect that the person arrested will
appear on the return of the warrant, and abide the order of the Court
or Judge thereupon; or they will pay as may be directed, the sum

speciEed in the warrant.
§ 486. The Officer shall return the warrant of arrest and the undertaking, if any, received by him from the person arrested, by the return
day specified therein.

§ 487. When the person arrested has been brought up or appeared,
the Court or Judge shall proceed to investigate the charge and shall
hear any answer which the person arrested may make to the same, and
may examine witnesses for or against him, for which an adjournment
may be had from time to time, if necessary.

§ 488. Upon the answer and evidence taken, the Court or Judge
shall determine whether the person proceeded against is guilty of the
contempt charged, and if it be adjudged that he is guilty of the contempt,
a line may beimposed on him not exceeding live hundred dollars, or
he may be imprisoned not exceeding five days, or both.

§ 489. When the contempt consists in the omission to perform an
act which is yet in the power of the person to perform, he may be
imprisoned until he have performed it, and in that case the act shall be
specified in the warrant of commitment.

§ 490. Persons proceeded against according to the provisions of this
chapter, shall also be liable to indictment for the same misconduct, if it
be an indictable offense; but the Court before which a conviction is had
on the indictment, in passing sentence, shall take into consideration the
punishment before indicted.

§ 491. When the warrant of arrest has been returned served, if the
person arrested do not appear on the return day, the Court or Judge
may issue another warrant of arrest, or may order the undertaking to be
prosecuted, or both. If the undertaking be prosecuted, the measure of
damages in the action shall be the extent of the loss or injury sustained
by the aggrieved party, by reason of the misconduct for which the
warrant was issued, and the costs of the proceeding.

§ 492. Whenever by the provisions of this chapter an of’ricer is
required .to keep a person arrested on a warrant of attachment in
custody, and to bring him before a Court or Judge, the inability from
illness or otherwise of the person to attend shall be a sudicient excuse
for not bringing him up; and the oliicer shall not confine a person
arrested upon the warrant in a prison or otherwise restrain him of
personal liberty, except so far as may be necessary to secure his personal
attendance.

§ 493. The judgment and orders of the Court or Judge made in,
‘ cases of contempt, shall be final and conclusive. The punishment shall
be by line or by imprisonment, but no tine shall exceed the sum of five
hundred dollars, and no imprisonment shall exceed the period of five
days, except as provided in section 489.

TITLE XIV.
OfC'osts.

§ 494. The measure and mode of compensation of attorneys and
counsellors shall be left to the agreement, express or implied, of the

parties. But there shall be allowed to the prevailing party certain
sums by way of indemnity for his expenses in the action, or special
proceedings in the nature of an execution, which allowances are in this
Act termed costs. .
§ 495. Costs shall be allowed of course to the plaintifff, upon a judgment in his favor, in the following cases:
1st. In an action for the recovery of real property.
2d. In an action to recover the possession of personal property,
when the value of the property amounts to over two hundred dollars.
Such value shall be determined by the Jury, Court, or referee by whom
the action is tried:
3d. In an action for the recovery of money or damages where
the plaintifff recovers over two hundred dollars:
4th. In a special proceeding in the nature of an action.
§ 496. When several actions are brought on one bond, undertaking,
promissory note, bill of exchange, or other instrument in writing, or in
any other case for the same cause of action, against several parties who
might have been joined as defendants in the same action, no costs shall
be allowed to the plaintifff in more than one of such actions, which may
be at his election, if the party proceeded against in the other actions
were at the commencement of the previous action openly within this
State; but the disbursements of the plaintih‘ shall be allowed to him in
each section. § 497. Costs shall be allowed of course to the defendant upon a
judgment in his favor in the actions mentioned in section 495, and in a ;
special proceeding in the nature of an action.
§ 498. In other actions than those mentioned in section 495, costs
may be allowed or not; and if allowed, may be apportioned between
the parties, on the same or adverse sides, in the discretion of the Court;
but no costs shall be allowed in an action for the recovery of money or
damages when the plaintifff recovers less than two hundred dollars, nor
in an action to recover the possession of personal property, when the
value of the property is less than two hundred dollars.
§ 499. When there are several defendants in the actions mentioned
in section 495, not united in interest, and making separate defenses by ‘
separate answers, and the plaintiE fails to recover judgment against all,
the Court shall award costs to such of the defendants as have judgment
in their favor.
' § 500. In the following cases the costs of an appeal shall be in the
discretion of the Court: .
1st. When a new trial is ordered:
2d. When a judgment is modified.
§ 501. When allowed, costs shall be as follows:
1st. For all proceedings previous to the issue, twenty dollars.
2d. For the trial of every issue of fact, and the argument of

every issue of law in an action, or special proceeding in the nature of

an action, thirty dollars. Attendance of counsel prepared for such trial
or argument, ten dollars; but only one attendance shall be allowed at
the same term :
8d. For the argument of every contested motion in the progress
of an action, or special proceeding in the nature of an action, or the
attendance of counsel prepared for such argument, ten dollars; but only
one attendance shall be allowed at the same term:
4th. For proceedings subsequent to trial or argument, until
judgment or appeal, ten dollars :
5th. For the argument of every appeal, thirty dollars. Attendance of counsel prepared for such argument, twenty dollars; but only
. one attendance shall be allowed at the same term:
6th. For proceedings subsequent to the argument of the appeal
until judgment is entered thereon, twenty dollars.
§ 502. In actions for the recovery of money or damages, or the possession of personal property, or for the recovery of real property, the
plaintifff shall be entitled to the additional allowance of five per cent. on
the first one thousand dollars,‘and two per cent. on all over that sum,
upon the amount of the verdict, or the value of the property recovered;
such value to be determined at the trial, or at the time the judgment is
applied for, in case no answer shall have been put ‘in. In the actions
specified in this section, the defendant, in case of judgment for the
defendant, shall be entitled to a similar per centage on, the amount
or the value of the property claimed by the plaintifff. But such allowance shall in no case exceed five hundred dollars.
§ 503. When recovery is had upon failure of the defendant to
answer, the plaintifff shall be entitled to recover as follows:
lst. In actions for the recovery of real property, and in actions
in which the taking of an account, or,the examination of a long account,
or the proof of any fact, shall be necessary to enable the Court to carry
the judgment into effect, and a reference be ordered to take or examine
the account, or determine the fact; and in actions in which a jury shall
be called to determine a fact necessary to carry the judgment into effect,
or to assess damages, the same costs as in actions in which issues are
joined.
2d. In other actions, thirty dollars.
§ 504. The fees of referees shall be five dollars to each for every
day spent in the business of the reference; but the parties may agree in
writing upon any other rate of compensation, and thereupon such rate
shall be allowed.
§ 505. When an application is made to a Court or referee to postpone a trial, the payment to the adverse party of a sum not exceeding
twenty dollars, besides the fees of witnesses, may be imposed, as the
condition of granting the postponement.
§ 506. When in an action for the recovery of money only, the
defendant alleges in his answer that before the commencement of the

action he tendered to the plaintifff the full amount to which he was
entitled, and thereupon deposits in Court for the plaintid' the amount so
tendered, and the allegation be found to be true, the plaintifff shall not
recover costs, but shall pay costs to the defmdant.

§ 507. In an action prosecuted or defended by an executor, administrator, trustee, or express trust, or a person expressly authorized by
statute, costs may be recovered, as in action by and against a person
prosecuting or defending in his own right; but such costs shall, by the
judgment, be made chargeable only upon the estate, fund, or party
represented, unless the Court shall direct the same to be paid by the
plaintifff or defendant, personally, for mismanagement or bad faith in the
action or defense.

§ 508. When the decision of a Court of inferior jurisdiction in a
special proceeding, is brought before a Court of higher jurisdiction
for a review in any other way than by appeal, the same costs shall be
allowed as in cases on appeal, and may be collected by execution, or in
such manner as the Court may direct, according to the nature of the case.

§ 509. On the commencement of an action, the plaintifff, and on the
tiling of notice of appeal from a final judgment, the appellant shall pay
to the Clerk three dollars, to be applied to the payment of the salary of
the Judge or Judges of the Court in which the payment is made. Each
Clerk shall keep an account of money so received, and shall pay over the
same at the end of each month to the Judge or Judges of the Court,,
taking duplicate receipts of each payment, one of which shall be filed
by the Clerk in his own Court. ~ On the first day of each month the
Clerk of each County Court shall deliver to the Treasurer of his County,
and the Clerk of the Superior Court of the City of San Francisco to the
Treasurer of said City an account of all sums received, specifying the
cases in which received, and of all sums paid out, with the receipts of
the Judge or Judges therefore; at the same time a like account shall be
forwarded by the Clerks of the District Courts to the Comptroller of the
State, of the sums paid into their respective Courts, and of the sums
paid out, with the receipts of the Judges therefore. In paying the salary
of any District Judge, the Comptroller, and in paying the salary of the
Judge or Judges of the Superior Court of the City of San Francisco, the
City Treasurer, and in paying the salary of any County Judge, the
County Treasurer, shall deduct the amount paid to such Judge or Judges,
under the provisions of this section, as shown by the receipts of the
Judge or Judges in their respective oiiices.

§ 510. The party in whose favor judgment is rendered, and who claims
his costs, shall deliver to the Clerk of the Court a memorandum of the
items of the costs to which he is entitled. He may include in the costs
all the necessary disbursements in the action or proceeding, including the
fees of odicers allowed by law,‘ the fees of witnesses, the necessary
expenses, taking depositions by commission or otherwise, the compensation of referees, and "the fees paid on the commencement of the action,

or on filing the notice of appeal. The memorandum shall be accompanied by the affidavit of the party, that the items are correct to the best
of his knowledge and belief, and that the disbursements have been necessarily incurred in the. action. The memorandum and affidavit shall be
delivered to the Clerk within twenty-four hours after the rendition of the
verdict, or the costs shall be deemed waived.

§ 511. The Clerk shall include in the judgment entered~up by him:
the costs, the per centage allowed, and any interest on the verdict from
the time it was rendered.

§ 512. When the plaintifff in an action resides out of the State, or is
a foreign corporation, security for the costs and charges which may be
awarded against such plaintifff may be required by the defendant. When
required, all proceedings in the action shall be stayed until an undertaking, executed by two or more persons, be filed with the Clerk, to the
ed‘ect that they will pay such costs and charges as may be awarded
against the plaintifff by judgment, or in the progress of the action, not
exceeding the sum of three hundred dollars. A new or an additional
undertaking may be ordered by the Court or Judge upon proof that the
original undertaking is insutiicient security, and proceedings in the
action stayed until such new or additional undertaking be executed
and filed.

§ 513. Each of the sureties on the undertaking mentioned in the last
section shall annex to the same an affidavit that he is a resident and
householder or freeholder within the County, and is worth double the
amount specified in the undertaking, over and above all‘his just debts
and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution.

§ 514. After the lapse of thirty days from the service of notice that
security is required, or of an order for new or additional security, upon
proof thereof, and that no undertaking as required has been filed, the
Court or Judge may order the action to be dismissed.

, T I T L E X V .
0f Motions, Orders, Notices, Service of Papers, and Miscellaneous
Provisions.

§ 515. Every direction of a Court or Judge made or entered in
writing, and not included in a judgment, is denominated an order. An
application for an order is a motion.

§ 516. Motions shall be made in the county in which the action is
brought, or in an adjoining county in the same district.

§ 517. When a written notice of a motion is necessary, it shall be
given, if the Court be held in the same district with both parties, tive
days before the time appointed for the hearing; otherwise, ten days;
but the Court or Judge may, by an order to show cause, prescribe a
shorter time.

§ 518. When a notice of a motion is given, or an order to show
cause is made returnable before a Judge out of Court, and at the time

fixed for the motion, or on the return day of the order, the Judge is
unable to hear the parties, the matter may be. transferred by his order to
some other Judge, before whom it might originally have been brought.

§ 519. Written notices and other papers, when required to be served ;
on the party or attorney, shall be served in the manner prescribed in
the ‘next three sections, when not otherwise provided; but nothing in
this Title shall be applicable to original or final process, or any proceedings to bring a party into contempt.

§ 520. The service may be personal, by delivery to the party or
attorney, on whom the service is required to be made, or it may be as
follows:

1st. If upon an attorney, it may be made during his absence
from his allies, by leaving the notice or other papers with his Clerk
therein, or with a person having charge thereof; or when there is no
person in the odice, by leaving them, between the hours of eight in the
morning and six in the afternoon, in a conspicuous place in the odice;
or if it be not open, so as to admit of such service, then by leaving
them at the attorney’s residence, with some person of suitable age and
discretion; and if his residence be not known, then ’by putting the
same, enclosed in an envelope, into the post-odice, directed to such
attorney :
2d. If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the notice or

other paper at his residence between the hours of eight in the morning
and six in the evening, with some person of suitable age and discretion;
and if his residence be not known, by putting the same, enclosed in an
envelope, into the post-odice directed to such party.

§ 521. Service by mail may be made, where the person making the ;
service, and the person on whom it is to be made, reside in different
places, between which there is a regular communication by mail.

§ 522. In case of service by mail, the notice or other paper shall be
deposited in the post-odice, addressed to the person on whom it is to be
served, at his place of residence, and the postage" paid. And in such
case, the time of service shall be increased one day for every twenty
miles distance between the place of the deposit and the place of the
address. .

§ 523. A defendant shall be deemed to appear in an action when
he answers, demurs, or gives the plaintifff written notice of his appearance, or when an attorney gives notice of appearance for him. After
appearance, a defendant or his attorney shall be entitled to notice of all
subsequent proceedings of which notice is required to be given. But
where a defendant has not appeared, service of notice or papers need
not be made upon him, unless he be imprisoned for want of bail.

§ 524. When a plaintifff or a defendant who has appeared resides
out of the State, and has no attorney in the action or proceeding, the
service may be made on the Clerk for him. But in all cases where a
party has no attorney in the action or proceeding, the service of papers,

when required, shall be upon the attorney instead of the party, except
of subpoenas, of writs, and other process issued in the suit, and of
papers to bring him into contempt.

§ 525. Successive actions may be maintained upon the same contract
or transaction, whenever, after the former action, a new cause of action
arises therefrom. '

§ 526. Whenever two or more actions are pending at one time
between the same parties, and in the same Court, upon causes of action
which might have been joined, the Court may order the actions to be
consolidated into one.

§ 527. An action may be brought by one person against another,
for the purpose of determining an adverse claim which the latter makes
against the former, for money or property, upon an alleged obligation;
and also against two or more persons, for the purpose of compelling one
to satisfy a debt due to the other, for which the plaintiR‘ is bound m
security.

§ 528. The Clerk shall keep among the records of _the Court a
register of actions. He shall enter therein the title of the action, with
brief notes under it, from time to time, of all papers filed and proceedings had therein.

§ 529. When there are three referees, or three arbitrators, all shall
meet, but two of them may do any act which might be done by all. ,

§ 530. The time within which an act is to be done, as provided in
this Act, shall .be computed by excluding the tirst day, and including
the last. If the last day be Sunday, it shall be excluded.

§ 531. An atiidavit, notice, or other paper, withouf the title of the
action or proceeding in which it is made, or with a defective title, shall
be as valid and effectual for any purpose as if duly entitled, if it intelliginy refer to such action or proceeding.

§ 532. When a cause of action has arisen in another State, or in a
foreign country, and by the laws thereof an action thereon cannot there
be maintained against a person by reason of the lapse of time, an action
thereon shall not be maintained against him in this State, except in favor

of a citizen thereof, who has held the cause of actio'n from the time it
accrued.

IT I T L E X v 1.
0f Proceedings in Civil Cases in Justices’ Courts.

CHAPTER I.

or m mam AND m TIME AND PLACE or comxcme ACTIONS
m msucns’ covers.

§ 533. The provisions of Title I. of this Act, as to parties to actions,

. shall be applicable to actions of which a Justice’s Court has jurisdiction. ~~ '
_ § 534. Parties in Justices’ Courts may prosecute or defend in person,
or by Attorney; and any person, on the request of a party, may act as

his attorney, except that the constable by whom the summons or jury
process was served, shall not appear or act on the trial in behalf of either
party.
§ 535. No person shall be held to answer to any summons issued
against him from a Justice’s Court, in civil action, in any township or
city other ‘ than the one in which he shall reside, except in the cases
following :
1st. Where there shall be no Justice’s Court for the township or
city in which the defendant may reside, or no Justice wmpetent to act
on the case:
2d. Where two or more persons shall be jointly, or jointly and
severally, bound in any debt or contract, or otherwise jointly liable. in
the same action, and reside in different townships or different cities of
the same county, or in different counties, the plaintifff may prosecute his
action in a Justice’s Court of the township or city in which any of the
debtors or other persons liable may reside:
3d. In cases of injury to the person, or to real or personal propertyuthe plaintifff may prosecute his action in the township or city
where the injury was committed :
4th. Where personal property unjustly taken or detained is
claimed, or damages therefore are claimed, the plaintiE may bring his
action in any township or city in which the property may be found,ior
in which the property was taken : '
5th. Where the defendant is a non-resident of the county, he
may be sued in any township or city wherein he may be found:
6th. When a person has contracted to perform any obligation
at a particqu place, and resides in another township or city, he may
be sued in the township or city in which such obligation is to be performed, or in which he resides : "
7th. Where the foreclosure of a mortgage or the enforcement
of alien upon personal property is sought by the action, the plaintifff
may sue in the township or city where the property is situated.
§ 536. Judgment upon confession may be entered up in any Justice’s
Court in the State specified in the confession.
§ 537. Justices’ Courts shall have jurisdiction of an action upon the
voluntary appearance of the parties without summona‘without regard
to their residences, or the place where the cause of action arose, or the
subject matter of the action may exist.

CHAPTER II.
smons, aaaxsr, amacmm, AND cum or PERSONAL PROPERTY.

§ 538. Actions in Justices’ Courts shallbe commenced by filings copy
of the account, note, bill, bond, or instrument upon which the action is
brought, or a concise. statement in writing of the cause of action, and
the issuance of a summons thereon, or by the voluntary sppearancqand

pleadings of the parties without summons. In the latter case the action
shall be deemed commenced at the time of appearance.
§ 539. When a guardian is necessary, he shall be appointed by the

Justice as follows :

let. If the infantbe plaintiE, the appointment shall be made before
the summons is issued, upon the application of the infant, if he be of the
age of fourteen years or upwards; if under that age, upon the application of some relative or friend. The consent in writing of the guardian
to be appointed, and to-be responsible for costs, if he fail in the action,
shall be first filed with the Justice.

2d. If the infant be defendant, the guardian shall be appointed at
the time the summons is returned, or before the pleadings. It shall be the
right of the infant to nominate his own guardian, if the infant be over
fourteen years of age, and the proposed guardian be present and consent
in writing to be appointed. Otherwise, the Justice may appoint any .
suitable person who gives such consent.

'§ 540. The summons shall be addressed to the defendant by name,
Or if his name be unknown, by a fictitious name; and shall summon
him to appear before the Justice at his 06cc,  its township or
city, and at a time specified therein, to answer the complaint of
the plaintifff, for a cause of action therein described in general terms, sufficient to apprise the defendant of ‘ the nature of the claim against him ;
and in action for money or damages, shall state the amount for which
the plaintili‘ will take judgment, if the defendant N1 to appear and answer. It shall be subscribed by the Justice before whom it is returnable.

§ 541. The time mentioned in the summons for the appearance of

the defendant, and the time of service, shall be as follows:

1st. Where the summons is accompanied by an order to arrest
the defendant, it shall be returnable immediately : ‘

2d. When the defendant is not a resident of the township or
city, or where the plaintiii‘ is not a resident, and givm the security
required by this Act, it shall be returnable not more than two days from
its date, and shall be served at least one day before the time for
appearance:

3d. In aJl other cases it shall be returnable in not less than two
nor more than ten days from its date, and shall be served at least two
days before the time for appearance. '

§ 542. The summons shall be served by the SheriE or a Constable

of the County as follows : ,

1st. If the action be against a corporation, by delivery of a copy
to the President or other head of the corporation, or to the secretary,
cashier, or managing agent thereof; or when no such officer resides
in the County, to a director resident therein:

2d. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years, by delivery of a copy to such minor, and also to his father, mother, or

guardian; or if there be none within the County, then to any person
having the care or control of such minor, or with whom he resides, or
in whose service he is: _
3d. If against a person judicially declared to be of unsound
mind, or incapable of conducting his own affairs, and for, whom a
guardian has been appointed, by delivery of a copy to such guardian:
4th. In allother cases, by delivery of a copy to the defendant
personally. § 543. If the plaintifff annex to his complaint, or file with the Justice,
at the time of issuing the summons, a copy of the account or promissory
note, bill of exchange, or other obligation, for the payment of money, or
for a specified amount of property at a valuation fixed therein, upon
which the action is brought, the defendant shall be deemed to admit
such account, note, bill, or obligation, unless be specifically deny the same
in his answer, and verify the answer by his oath.
§ 544. An order to arrest the defendant may be endorsed on a summons issued by the Justice, and the defendant may be' arrested thereon
by the Sheriff or Constable, at the time of serving the summons,
and brought before the Justice, and there detained until duly discharged
in the following casea arising after the passage of this Act : 0
lst. In an action for the recovery of money, or damages, on a
cause of action arising upon contract, express or implied, when the defendant is about to depart from the State, with intent to defraud his
creditors; or where the action is for a willful injury to the person, or for
taking, detaining, or injuring personal property :
2d. In an action for a line or penalty, or for money or property
embezzled, or fraudulently misapplied, or converted to his own use by
an attorney, factor, broker, agent, or clerk, in the course of his employment as such, or by any other person in a fiduciary capacity:
3d. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in contracting the debt, or incurring the obligation for which the action is brought:
4th. When the defendant has removed, concealed, or disposed of
his property, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his creditors.
But no female shall be arrested in any action.
§ 545. Before an order for an arrest shall be made, the party applying shall prove to the satisfaction of the Justice, by the affidavit of himself
or some other person,the facts on which the application 'is founded.
The plaintifff shall also execute and deliverto the J ustice a written undertaking, with two or more sureties, to the sheet that if the defendant
recover judgment, the plaintifff will pay tdi' him all costs that may be
awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he may sustain by
reason of the arrest, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking,
which shall he.at least two hundred dollars.
§ 546. The defendant, immediately upon being arrested, shall be
taken to the office of the Justice who made the order, and if he be absent

or unable to try the action, or if it be made to appear to him by the a3

davit of defendant, that he is a material witness in the action, the otIicer
shall immediately take the defendant before the next Justice of the city
or township, who shall take cognizance of the action, and proceed thereon:
as if the summons had been issued and the order of arrest made by him.
§ 547. The oEcer making the arrest shall immediately give notiw
thereof to the plaintifff or his attorney, or agent, and endorse on the summons, and subscribe a certificate, stating the time of serving the same,
the time of the arrest, and of his giving notice to the plaintifff.
_ § 548. The oliicer making an arrest shall keep the defendant in custody until duly discharged by order of the Justice.
§ 549. The defendant under arrest on his appearance'with the odicer
may demand a trial immediately; and upon such demand being made,
the trial shall not be delayed beyond three hours, except by the trial of
another action pending at the time; or he may have an adjournment,
and be diScharged on giving bail, as provided in the next section. An
adjournment at the request of the plaintifff, beyond three hours, shall
discharge the defendant from arrest, but the action may proceed notwithstanding; and the defendant shall be subject to arrest on the execution in the same manner as if he had not been so discharged.
§ 550. If the defendant on his appearance demand an adjournment,
the same shall be granted, on condition that he execute and file with the
Justice an undertaking, with two or more sufiicient sureties, to be ap- proved by the Justice, to the effect that he will render himself amenable
to the process of the Court during the pendency of the action, and such
as may be issued to enforce the judgment therein ; or that the sureties
will pay to the plaintifff the amount of any judgment which he may recover in the action. be filing the undertaking specified in this section,
the Justice shall order the defendant to be discharged from custody.
§ 551. In an action upon a contract, eipress or implied, made after
I the passage of this Act, for the direct payment of money, which contract
is made or payable in this State, and is not secured by mortgage upon
real or personal property, the plaintifff at the time of issuing the summons.
or at any time afterwards, may have the property of the defendant attached as security for the satisfaction of any judgment that may be
recovered, unless the defendant give security to pay such judgment, as
hereinafter provided. '
§ 552. A writ to attach the property of the defendant shall be issued
by the Justice, on receiving an atiidav‘it by «or on behalf of the plaintifff,
showing that the defendant is indebted to the plaintifff (specifying the
amount of such indebtedness over and above all legal set-offs, or counter
claims) upon a contract express or implied, for the direct payment of
money, that such contract was made after the passage of this Act, and
was made or is payable in this State, and that the payment of the same
has not been secured by any mortgage on real or persoan property.
§ 553. Before issuing the writ the Justice shall require a written
undertaking on, the part of the plaintifff, with two or more suliicient

sureties, to the effect that if the defendant recover judgment, the plaintiE will pay all costs that may be awarded to the defendant, and all
damages which he may sustain by reason of the attachment.
§ 5547‘Fhe writ may be directed to the Sheriff or any constable of
the county, and shall require him to attach. and safely keep all the
property within his County not exempt from execution, or so much
thereof as may be sufficient to satisfy the plaintifff’s demand, the amount
of which shall be stated in conformity with the complaint, unless the
defendant give him security by the undertaking of two suiiicient sureties,
in an amgunt suliicient to satisfy such demand besides costs ; in which
case, to take such undertaking. r '
§ 555. The Sections of this Act, from section one hundred and
twenty-four to section one hundred and forty—one, both inclusive, shall
be applicable to attachments issued in Justices’ Courts, the word “ Constable ” being substituted for the word “ Sherid’,” whenever the writ is
directed to a Constable, and the word “ Justice ” being substituted for
the word “ Judge.”
§ 556. The plaintifff in an action to recover the possession of personal
property, may at the time of issuing the summons, or at any time
before answer, claim the delivery of such property to him, as provided
in this chapter. ‘
§ 557. When a delivery is claimed, an affidavit shall be made by the
plaintifff, or by some one in his behalf, showing:
lst. That the plaintifff is the owner of the property claimed
(particularly. describing it), or is lawfully entitled to the possession
thereof:
. 2d. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant:
3d. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, according to his
best knowledge, information, and belief:
4th. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or
fine, pursuant to a statute ; 9r seized under an execution, on an attachment against'the property of the plaintiff, or if seized, that it is by statute
exempt from such seizure: and '
5th. The actual value of the property.
§ 558. The Justice shall thereupon, by an endorsement in writing
upon the affidavit, order the Sheriff or a constable of the County to take
the same from the defendant, and deliver it to the plaintifff, upon receiving
the undertaking mentioned in the following section.
§ 559. Upon the receipt of the affidavit, and order, with a written
undertaking, executed by two or more sufficient sureties, approved by
the officer, to the effect that they are bound in double the value of the
property as stated in the affidavit,- for the prosecution of the action, for
the return of the property to the defendant, if return thereof be adjudged,
and for the payment to him of such sum as may, for any cause, be
recovered against the plaintifff, the officer shall forthwith take the property
described in the affidavit, if it be in the possession of the defendant, or

his agent, and retain it in his custody. He shall also, without delay,
serve on the defendant 3 copy of the affidavit, ordqp and undertaking,
by delivering the same to him personally, if he can be found within the
County, or to his agent, from whose possession the property is taken, or
if neither can be fbund within the County, by leaving them at the usual
place of abode of either within the County, with serge person of suitable
age and discretion, or if neither have any known place of abode within
the county, by putting them into the nearest post-ethos directed to the
defendant.

§ 560. The defendant may .within two days after the service of a copy
of the affidavit and undertaking, give notice to the oHicer that he excepts
to the sufficiency of the sureties. If he fails to do so, he shall be deemed
to have waived all objection to them. When the defendant excepts, the
sureties shall justify on notice before the Justice; and the emcer shall
be responsible for the sutiiciency of the sureties until the objection to
them is either waived as above provided, or until they justify. .If the
defendant except to the sureties, he cannot reclaim the property as provided in the next section.

§ 561. At any time before the delivery of the property to the plaintifff, the defendant may, if he do not except to the sureties of the plain.
tiff, require the return thereof, upon giving to the office a written
undertaking, executed by two or more sufiicient sureties, to the ed'ect
that they are bound, in double the value of the property, as stated in
the atiidavit of the plaintifff, for the delivery thereof to the plaintifff, if
such delivery be adjudged, andfor the payment to him of such sum as
may for any cause he recovered against the defendant. If a return of
the property be not so required within two days after the taking and
service of notice to the defendant, it shall be delivered to the plaintifff, except as provided in this chapter.

§ 562. The defendant’s sureties, upon reasonable notice to the plaintifff, shall justify before the Justice; and upon such justification, the
odicer shall deliver the property to the defendant. The oilicer shall be
responsible for the defendant’s sureties until they justify, or until the
justification is completed or expressly waived, and may retain the property until that time; but if they, or others in their place, fail to
justify at the time appointed, he shall deliver the property to the plaintifff.

§ 563. If the property or any part thereof be concealed in a building,
or enclosure, the Otiicer shall publicly demand its delivery; and if it be
not delivered, he shall cause the building or enclosure to be broken open,
and take the property into his possession.

§ 564. When the Officer shall have taken property, as in this
chapter provided, he shall keep it in a secure place, and deliver it to the
party entitled thereto, upon receiving his lawful fees for taking, and his
necessary expenses for keeping the same.

§ 565. If the property taken be claimed by any other person than
the defendant or his agent, and such person make affidavit of his title
thereto, or right to the possession thereof, stating the grounds of such

title or right, and serve the same upon the Odicer, the Officer shall not
be bound to keep the property, or deliver it to the plaintifff, unless the
plaintiE; on demand of him or his agent, indemnify the Officer against
such claim, by an undertaking, executed by two sufficient sureties, accompanied by their aHidavits, that they are each worth double
the value of the property as specified in the affidavit of the plaintifff,
over and above their debts and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt
from execution, and are freeholders or householders of the County; and

no claim to such property by any other person than the defendant or his

agent shall be valid against the Officer, #39 made.
§ 566. The Officer shall return the or el and affidavit, with his proceedings thereon, to the Justice within five days after taking the
property mentioned therein. a -- ~§ 567. The qualilication of sureties on the several undertakings required by this chapter, shall be as follows:
1st. Each of them shall be a resident, and householder, or freeholder within the County:
2d. Each shall be worth double the amount stated in the undertaking, over and above all his debts and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution.
§ 568. For the purpose of justification, each of the sureties shall ,
attend before the Justice at the time mentioned in the notice, and may '
be examined on oath, on the part of the adverse party, touching his
sut’dciency, in such manner as the Justice, in his discretion, may
think proper. The examination shall be reduced to writing, and subscribed by the sureties, if required.
§ 569. If the Justice find the sureties sufficient, he shall annex i
the examination to the undertaking, endorse his allowance thereon,

and file the same, and the Otlicer shall thereupon be exonerated from
I. 1.]. ty.

CHAPTER III.
PLEADINGS AND TRIAL.

§ 570. The pleadings in Justices’ Courts shall be :
1st. The complaint by the plaintifff, stating the cause of
action : 2d. The answer by the defendant, stating the ground of the
defense.
§ 571. The pleadings shall be in writing, and verified by the oath of
the party, his agent or attorney, when the action is :
1st. For the foreclosure of any mortgage or the enforcement of
any lien on personal property :
2d. For a forcible or unlawful entry upon, or a forcible or unlawful detention of lands, tenements, or other possessions :
8d. To recover possession of a “mining claim.’

the pleadings may be oral or in writing.

’ In other cases

§ 572. When the pleadings are oral, the substance of them shall be
entered by the Justice in his docket; when in writing they shall be filed
in his odice, and a reference to them made in the docket. Pleadings
shall not be required to be in any particular, form, but shall be such as
to enable a person of common understanding to know what is intended.
- § 578. The complaint shall state in a plain and direct manner the
facts constituting the cause of action.

§ 57 4. The answer may gontain a denial of any of the material facts
stated in the complaint, which the defendant believes to be untrue, and
also a statement, in a ledirect manlggbgqf anygo‘.‘ ' “p. facts constituting a defense, or a com; er,"‘claim upon-which .agéction may be
brought by the defendant against the plaintifff in a  usticés’ Court.
W. A statement in answer that the party has not sumcient knowledge or information in respect to a particular allegation iii-the previous
pleading of the adverse party to form a belief, shall be deemed equivalent to a denial.

§ 576. When the cause of action or counterclaim arises upon an
account or instrument for the payment of money only, it shall be sufficient for the party to deliver a copy of the account to the Court, and to
state that there is due to him thereupon, from the adverse party, a specilied sum, which he claims to recover or set-off. The Court may, at the
time of the pleading, require that the original account or instrument be
exhibited to the inspection of the adverse party, and a copy to be fur.
nished ; or if it be not. so exhibited and a copy furnished, may prohibit
its being afterwards given in evidence.

§ 577. When the defendant answers the complaint, every material
allegation therein, not denied by the answer, shall, on the trial, be taken
to be true.

§ 578. Either party may object to a pleading of his adversary, or
to any part thereof, that it is not sumciently explicit to enable him to
understand it, or that it contains no cause of action or defense, although
it be taken as true. If the Court deem the objection well founded, it
shall order the pleading to be amended, and if the party refuse to amend,
the defective pleading shall be disregarded.

. § 579. A variance between the proof on the trial and the allegations

' in a pleading, shall be disregarded as immaterial, unless the Court be
satisfied that the adverse party has been misled to his prejudice thereby.

§ 580. The pleadings may be amended at any time before the trial,
to supply a deficiency or omission, when by such amendment substantial
justice will be promoted. If the amendment be made after the issue,
and it be made to appear to the satisfaction of the Court, by oath, that
an adjournment is necessary to the adverse party in consequence of such
amendment, an adjournment shall be granted. The Court may also, in
its discretion, require as a condition of an amendment, the payment of
costs to the adverse party, to be fixed by the Court, not exceeding twenty
dollars; but such payment shall not be required unless an adjournment is

made necessary by the amendment; nor shall an adjournment be allowed
after a witness is sworn on the trial, when an adjournment thereby will
be made necessary.

§ 581. The parties shall not be at liberty to give evidence by which '.
the question of title to real property shall be raised on the trial before a i
Justice, and if it appear from the plaintiTs own showing on the trial,
or from the swer ol' the (letbndant, veritietl by his oath, or that of his
agent or ( ._\., that '
involve ll] "‘iun (1i. '
shall $119.

  
  
  
   
 
  
  
    
  

  
 
  
  
   

e determinatioi

  
  
 

he action uill inrcuxssarily
(liter-lion o' 0 real pioluxrtv, the Justice

rt '1 *t’llllf" " " 1, and Certify the pleadoral,
. let Court of the en '0111 the tim )
rs or tlanscrilit with the County (_.- erh. the his

r the. action the same jurisdiction :14 it it. wrote

'ilt

it: same li'oiil his

   
 

commei ierein. I’i'm'irr’nl, that when t.helile:u.li11gs or transcript

are oer the lli‘Etriet Court upon the answer of the (lefemlant, he
shall file undertaking with two or more sullieient snreties, to be
approved by the .l'ustiee, to the otl'wct that they will pay all costs of the
action if it he (.leeitlml agaimt him lay the District. (hurt.
§ 5823. Upon the return day of the sunnnons, it' a jury be required,
or if the Justice he actually engaged in other ollicial business, he may
adjourn the trial without the consent of either party as iiillows:
15L. \Vhen a party who is not a.  ' oi" the County is in
attendance, the :nljournnwnt not to excee

   
  
  
 

1' hours; when the

defendant in attendance is under arrest, l 1 [cent not to exceed

three hours :
2d. In other (race not to exceed five days:

If the trial he not adjourned, it shall take place immediately
upon the return of the summons, or innnediately after the termination
of a pending trial.

§ 583. The trial may he :uljourmbd by consent, or upon application 1
of either party, without the consent of the other, for a period not
exceeding ten days (except as provided in the next section), as follows :

let. The party asking the adjournment shall, if required by his
adversary, prove by his own oath, or otherwise, that he cannot, for want
of material testimony, which he expects to procure, safely proceed to
trial :

2d. The party asking the adjournment shall also, if required
by the adverse party, consent that the testimony of any witness of such
advhrse party, who is in attendance, be then taken by deposition before
the justice, which shall accordingly be done; and the testimony so
taken may be read on the trial with the same effect, and subject to the
same objections, as if the witness were produced.

§ 584. An adjournment may be had, either at the time of joining
the issue, or at any subsequent time to which the cause may stand
adjourned, on application of either party, for a period longer than ten

days, but not to exceed ninety days from the time of the summons
upon return of the proof, by the oath of the party, or otherwise, to the
satisfaction of the Justice, that such party cannot be ready for trial
before the time to which he desires an adjournment, for the want of
material evidence, describing it; and that the delay has not been made
necessary by any act or negligence on his part, since the action was
commenced, and that he expects to pram-urn; the L‘\'ll._ltfl]Ct3 at. the time
stated by him.

§ 585. No mljuurnnwn
ten days, upon the :11} I
that such part j; '

3 *1 lCt.‘, tn the 1'? 1'?

   
 
  
   
  
 

 
  

any jullgn

g .3813. lf the plaintifff fail to appear at the return (la

mons, the action shall he Lllrél'lllriréu’tl. If the :_lt:1‘e._~l§l;-mt till
the return day ef the smmnuns, or if till“)? party fail t .- 1d .at. a
day to which the trial has been adjourned, or fail to make the necessary
pleading or proof on his part, the case may, nevertheless, proceed, at
the request of the adverse party, and judgment shall be given in
conformity with the pleadings and proofs. ‘

§ 587. A trial by jury shall be demanded at the time of joining
issue; and shall I)" ' ~ ml waived, if neither party then demand it.
When demanded. tl the case shall be adjourned, until a time
and place fixed for. of the jury. If neither patty desire an

_adjournment, the. Iim. place shall be determined by the Justice,

and shall be on the same ay, or within the next two days. The jury
shall be summoned upon an order of the Justice from the citizens of
the city or township, and not from the bystanders.

§ 588. At the time appointed for the trial, the Justice shall proceed
to call, from the jurors summoned, the names of the persons to constitute the jury for the trial of the issue. The jury by consent of the
parties may consist of any number not more than twelve nor less than
three.

§ 589. If a suHicient number of competent and indifferent jurors do
not attend, the Justice shall direct others to be summoned from the
vicinity, and not from the bystanders, suliicient to complete the jury.

§ 590. Either party may challenge the jurors. The. challenges shall
be either peremptory, or for cause. Each party shall be entitled to
three peremptory challenges. Either party may challenge for cause, on
any grounds set forth in Section 162. ° Challenges for cause shall be
tried by the Justice in a summary manner, who may examine the juror
challenged, and witnesses.

O Slllll‘
11133? at

 
   
  
 
  

""ll-\l"l‘l£li IV.

 
   
   
 

  

ll lstLlC'llet .

  
  
 
 

§ 591. may]:
a new actio , ay 1» {3H
lst. When [11»: I}
it is dually submitted.
2d. When «he fails to appear at the time specified in the summons, or upon adjournment, or within one hour thereafter:
3d. When it is objected at the trial, and appears by the evidence,
that the action is brought in the wrong county, or township, or city;
but if the objection be taken and overruled, it shall be cause only of
reversal on appeal, and shall not otherwise invalidate the judgment; if
not taken at the trial, it shall be deemed waived, and shall not be cause
of reversal.
§ 592. When the defendant fails to appear and answer, judgment .
shall be given for the plaintti‘ as follows : 1
lat. When a copy of the account, note, bill, or other obligation
upon which the action is brought, was filed with the J ustiee at the time
the summons was issued, judgment shall be given without further evidence, for the sum specified in the summons :
2d. In other cases the Justice shall hear the evidence of the
plaintim and render judgment for such sum only as shall appear by the
evidence to‘be just; but in no case exceeding the amount specified in
the summons. ,
§ 593. Upon issue joined, if a jury trial he not demanded, the Jus- '
tics shall hear the evidence,’ and decide all questions of fact and of law, I
and render judgment accor ly.
§ 594. Upon a verdict e Justice shall immediately render judg- .
ment accordingly. When the trial is by the Justice, judgment shall be I
entered immediately after the close of the trial, if the defendant has '
been arrested andis still in custody; in other cases it shall be entered
within four days after the close of the trial.
§ 595. When the amount found due to either party exceeds the
sum for which the Justice is authorized to enter judgment, such party
may remit the excess, and judgment may be rendered for the residue.
§ 596. If the defendant, at any time before the trial, offer in writing
to allow judgment to be taken against him for a specified-sum, the
plaintifff may immediately have judgment therefore, with the coats then'
accrued; but if he do not\aceept such offer before the trial, and fail to
recover in the action a sum equal to the offer, he shall not recover costs,
but costs shall be adjudged against him, and if he recover, deducted
from his recovery. But the offer and failure to accept it shall not be
given in evidence to affect the recovery otherwise than as to costs, as
above provided.

mm in: Illsrrtln'wl William Inn-indict" to Vllll {rmh in llt“ lidhruitrg l..";t-l_‘:~‘-: I

‘ Vllllllllill‘th dismiss-1- 11m :ugtiun l'xwl'orc

 
 
    
 

silt. is I‘wH'l-i-wl in 2: L'Ltw Wll-‘l" l_.l1r- eliri-ndant

lr-Rtllll't'iv-‘Tli lllz.‘l'=_'i)l 'lmil lw w strum] in the

   
   
   
  
   
 

   

Pill, . ll". tlnl'iir'i

Ylli'li ill-3.

     

'.-\':1llin_g‘ Imt L‘ul‘l‘? lw' ills chapter,
lllt‘ -l'.:.-1“.-'j*»'+ shrill ;t«.l<'l tl'n-il' ninumir to ' c, or 111995 :1. failure
nil llll‘ lililllllll-l lu l‘I_'-'_"_I\'u'_-I', 01‘ ill (2'14" Inl' L mail ill. I. r. (US-iiun. 
(mtg-r up jr1«l_;'1:1-._-nt in law!" of tho lttT-wlnn lie aim-Inn? «it .“lltjll costs.

 309, Tim -lll*lll."_"._ ran Ilwmuu-l '4' t; T_\‘ in slum? iii-mn- judg.
111cm is rc-Iulcrml. rill-Ill g’li'w llllll :1 Irwriwl'iirt 1lil'z‘m.II‘,=\‘.'liitxl1 Illa-V l-e 

:uul c_l:__n_'l<<.-It_wl in tin”). villi-I? of ill“ i'iwt‘k ml llll‘ {futility \t-llwi‘uff lll-’ judgment was rendered. The time of the receipt of the transcript by the
County Clerk shall be noted by him thereon, and entered in the docket;
and from that time executions may be issued by the County Clerk on
such judgments to the sheriff of any other county of the State, in the
same manner as upon judgments recovered in the higher Courts. All
process upon judgments recovered in Justices’ Courts, to be executed
within the same county, shall be issued by the Justice, or his successors
in odice. ‘

§ 600. Execution for the enforcement of a judgment in a Justice’s
Court, may be issued on the application of the party entitled thereto, at
any time within five years from the entry of judgment.

§ 601. The execution, when issued by a Justice, shall be directed to
the sheriff or to a constable of the county, and subscribed by the Justice
by whom the judgment was rendered, or by his successor in office, and
shall bear date' the day of its delivery to the office to be executed. It
shall intelliginy refer to the judgment, by stating the names of the
parties, and the name of the Justice before whom, and of the county,
and the township, or city, where, and the time when, it was rendered;
the amount of judgment, if it be for mo?; and if less than the whole
is due, the true amount due thereon. shall contain, in like cases,
similar directions to the sheriff or constable as are required by the provisions of Title VII. of this Act, in an execution to the sheriff.

§ 602. The sheriff or constable t6 whom the execution is directed:
shall proceed to execute the same in the same manner as the sheriff is
required by the provisions of Title VII. of this Act, to proceed upon
executions directed to him; and the constable, when the execution is

directed to him, shall be vested, for that purpose, with all the powers of
sheriff. ‘ "

CHAPTER V.
GENERAL PROVISIONS.

I § 603. Those provisions of this Act, and no other, which are referred
to in this Title, and in respect to which no special provision is made in this Title, shall be applicable to Justices’ Courts, and proceedings
therein.

§ 604. Every Justice shall ‘keep a book denominated “ A Docket,”
in which he shall enter:

.‘. _ nrrrfw
let. The title of every action or proceediiig;  3
2d. The object of the action or prmeedilig, and"?  of
money be claimed, than-mint of the demandtii‘“ 9'. “f ' ‘ '3d.;;The date of the“ summons, and the time of its return ; and if
an order team-rest we’rggemam. be made, or a writ of attachment be
issued, a statement of these facts:
4th. The time when the parties or either of them appear, or
their non—appearance, if default be made ; a minute of the pleadings ; if
in writing, referring to them ; if not in writing, a concise statement of
the material parts of the pleading:
5th. Every adjournment, stating on whose application, whether
on oath, evidence, or consent, and to what time :
6th. The demand for a trial by jury, when the same is made,
and by whom made; the order for the jury, and the time appointed for
the trial and return of the jury: I:
7th. The names of the jury who appear and are sworn; the
names of all witnesses sworn, and at whose request :
8th. The verdict of the jury, and when received; if the jury disagree, and are discharged, the fact of such disagreement and discharge :
9th. The judgment of the Court, specifying the costs included,
and the time when rendered :
10th. The issuing of execution, when issued, and to whom ; the
renewals thereof, if any, and when made ; and a statement of any money
paid to the Justice, and when, and by whom :
‘ 11th. The receipt of a notice of appeal, if any be given.
§ 605. The several particulars of the last section specified shall be ‘
entered under the title of the action to which they relate, and at the time i
when they occur. Such entries in a J ustice’s docket, or a transcript
thereof, certified by the Justice or his successor in odice, shall be primary
evidence to prove the facts so stated therein.
§ 606. A JustiCe shall keep an alphabetical index to his docket, in
which shall be entered the names of the parties to each judgment, with
a reference to the page of entry. The names of the plaintifffs shall be
entered in the index, in the alphabetical order of the first letter of the
family names.
§ 607. It shall be the duty of every justice, upon the expiration of
his term of office, to deposit with his successor his odicial dockets, as
well his own as those of his predecessors, which may be in his custody,
to be kept as public records. If the office of a Justice become vacant by
his death, or removal from the township or city, or otherwise, before his
successor is elected and qualified, the dockets in possession of such dustice shall be deposited with the County Clerk of the county, to be by
him delivered to the successor in office of the Justice.
§ 608. Any Justice with whom the docket of his predecessor is deposited,_may issue execution on a judgment there entered and unsatislied,

in the same manner and with the same effect as the Justice by whom the
judgmenfwas entered might have done.

§ 609. The Justice elected to fill a vac'andf shall be deemed the
successor of the Justice whose oliice became vacant before the expiration of a full term. When a full term satires, the same or another
person elected to take office in the same township, or city, from that
time shall be deemed the successor.

§ 610. When two or more Justices are equally entitled under the
last section to be deemed the successors in office of the Justice, the County Judge shall, by a certificate, subscribed by him and filed in the ot‘nce
of the County Clerk, designate which Justice shall be the successor of a
Justice going out of oliice, or whose odice has become vacant.

§ 611. The summons, execution, and every other paper made or
issued by a Justice, except a subpoena, shall be filed without a blank left
to betued by another, otherwise it shall be void.

§ 612. In casqof the sickness, other disability, or necessary absence
of a Justice on a return of a summons, or at the time appointed for a
trial, another Justice of the same township or city may, at his request,
attend in his behalf, and shall thereupon become vested with the power,
for the time being, of the Justice before whom the summons was returnable. In that case the proper entry of the proceedings before the attending Justice, subscribed by him, shall be made in the docket of the
Justice before whom the summons was returnable. If the case be
adjourned, the Justice before‘whom the summons was returnable, may
resume jurisdiction.

§ 613. A Justice may, at the request of a party, and on being satisfied that it is expedient, specially depute any discreet person of suitable
age, and not interested in the action, to serve a summons or execution
with or without an order to arrest the defendant, or with or without a
writ of attachment. Such deputation shall be in writing on the
process.

§ 614. The person so deputed shall have the authority of a constable
in relation to the service, execution, and return of such process, and
shall be subject to the same obligations. '

§ 615. A constable, notwithstanding the expiration of his term of
office, may proceed and complete the execution of all final process
which he has begun to execute, in the same manner as if he still continued in oHice, and his snreties shall be liable to the same extent.

§ 616. A Justice may punish as for contempt, persons guilty of the
following acts, and no other:

lst. Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior towards the
Justice while holding the Court, tending to interrupt the due course of
a trial, or other judicial proceeding: .
2d. A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct, or violent di

turbance in the presence of the Justice, or in the immediate vicinity of

the Court, held by him, tending to interrupt the due course of a trial,
or other judicial proceeding: '
3d. Disobedience or resistance to the execution of a lawful order,
or process, made or issued by him:
4th. Disobedience to a subpoena duly served, or refusing to be
sworn, or answer as a witness:
5th. Rescuing any person or property in the custody of any officer,
by’ virtue of an order or process of the Court held by him.
§ 617. When a contempt is committed in the immediate view and
presence of the Justice, it may be punished summarily, for which an
order shall be made reciting the facts, as occurring in such immediate
view and presence, adjudging that the person proceeded against is thereby
guilty of a contempt, and that he be punished as therein prescribed.
When the contempt is not committed in the immediate view and
presence of the Justice, a warrant of arrest may be issued by such
Justice, on which the person so guilty may be arrested and brought
before the Justice immediately, when an opportunity to be heard in his
defense or excuse shall be given. The Justice may thereupon discharge
him, or may convict him of the offense. A Justice may punish for contempts, by fine or imprisonment, or both; such fine not to exceed in
any case one hundred dollars, and such imprisonment one day.
§ 618. The conviction specifying particularly the offense and the
judgment thereon, shall be entered by the Justice in his docket.
§ 619. Justices of the Peace may issue subpmnas in any action or
proceeding in the Courts 'held by them, and final process on any judgment recovered therein, to any part of the County.
§ 620. Justices of the Peace may issue commissions to take the
depositions of witnesses out of this State, and settle interrogatories to be
annexed thereto, and direct the manner in which the com issions shall
be returned. The provisions of Title XI. of this Act, so far the same
are consistent with the jurisdiction and powers of Justices’ Courts, shall
be applicable to Justices’ Courts, and to actions and proceedings therein.
§ 621. In actions respecting “ Mining Claims,” proof shall be admitted
of the customs, usages, or regulations established and in force at the bar:
or diggings, embracing such claim; and such customs, usages, or regulations, when not in conflict with the Constitution and Laws of this
State, shall govern the decision of the action.
§ 622. A new trial may be granted by the Justice, on motion,
« within ten days after the entry of judgment, for any one of the following causes: '
lst. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not
have guarded against. 4
2d. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under the
induence of passion: or,
3d. lnsuiiiciency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other
decision.

4th. Newly discovered evidence material for the party making

the application, which he could not with reasonable diligence have discovered and produced at the time.

§ 623. The application shall be made upon affidavit and notice.
The affidavit shall be filed with the Justice, with a statement of the
grounds upon which the party intends to rely. The adverse party may
use counter atiidavits on the motion, provided they be filed one day
previous to the hearing of the motion.

§ 624. Any party dissatisfied with a judgment made in a Justice’s
Court, may appeal therefrom to the County Court of the county, any
time within three months atter the rendition of the judgment.

§ 625. The party intending to appeal shall, within five days after
judgment, prepare a statement of the case, and file a my with the
Justice. Within five days thereafter the adverse party may file amendments to such statement. The proposed statement and amendments
shall be settled by the Justice. If no amendments be served, the
original statement shall be adopted. The statement thus adopted, or
as settled by the Justice, with a copy of the docket of the Justice, shall

constitute the papers to be used on the hearing of the appeal before
the County Court.

§ 626. An appeal shall be taken by filing a notice of appeal with
the Justice, and serving a copy on the adverse party. The motion
‘ahall state whether the appeal is taken from the whole or a part of the
judgment, and if from a part, what part.
§ 627. Upon receiving the notice of appeal, and on payment of his
’ fees, and filing an undertaking as required in the next section, the
Justice shall transmit to the Clerk of the County Court a copy of his
docket in the case, and the statement as admitted or settled, and the
notice of appeal received. .
§ 628. The Justice shall not transmit to the County Court a copy
of the docket, and the statement and notice of appeal, until an undertaking be filed with two or more sutiicient sureties thereon, in the sum
of one hundred dollars for the payment of the costs; or if a stay of
proceedings be claimed, in a sum equal to twice the'amount of the
judgment, for the payment of .the costs and the judgment, provided the
appeal he atiirmed by the County Court; or if adirmed only in part,
then to the extent in which it may be atiirmed.
§ 629. If an execution be issued, on the tiling of the undertaking,
staying all proceedings, the Justice shall, by order, direct the officer to
stay all proceedings on the same. - Such oHicer shall, upon payment of
his fees for services rendered on the execution, thereupon relinquish all
property levied upon, and deliver the same to the judgment debtor,
together with all monies collected from sales or otherwise. If his fees
be not paid, the officer may retain so much of the property, or proceed:
thereof, as may be necessary to pay the same.
§ 630. The party appealing shall furnish to the County Court a

copy of the papers to be used on the hearing of the appeal, certilied by
the Justice to be correct.
§ 631. Costs shall be allowed to the prevailing party in a Justice’s 1

Court, as follows:
lst, To the plaintifff, ten per cent. on the amount of the money,

or the value of the property recovered, if the action was litigated; five

per cent. if the action was not liquidated:
2d. To the defendant, ten per cent on the amount or the value

of the property claimed by the plaintiff in his complaint.

§ 632. In addition to the costs, as allowed by the last section, the A
prevailing party shall be allowed his money disbursements in the action. 1

§ 633. Justices of the Peace shall receive from the Sheriff or Con- .
stables of their county, all monies collected on any process or order 
issued by their Courts respectively, and all monies paid to them in ‘
their odicial capacity, and shall pay the same over to the parties entitled
or authorized to receive them without delay. For a violation of this
section they may be removed from their oliice, and shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor.

§ 634. Justices of the Peace may, in all cases, require a deposit of
money, or an undertaking, as security for costs of Court, before issuing

asurnmons.
§ 635. The provisions of sections 519, 520, 523, 525, 526, 527

531, and 532, shall be applicable to Justices’ Courts and actions
therein.

T I T L E X V I I .
0f Proceedings in Civil Cases in Recorders’ and Mayors’ Courts.

§ 636. Civil actions in Recorders’ and Mayors’ Courts shall be commenced by filing a complaint, setting forth the violation of the ordinance
complained of, with such particulars of time, place, and manner of
violation, as to enable the defendant to understand distinctly the cha-p
raster of the violation complained of, and to answer the complaint. The
ordinance may be referred to by its title. The complaint shall be
verified by the oath of the party complaining, or of his attorney, or
agent.

§ 637. Immediately after tiling the complaint, a summons shall be
issued, directed to the defendant, and returnable either immediately, or
at any time designated therein, not exceeding four days from the date
of its issuance.

 638. On the return of the summons the defendant may plead to
the complaint, or he may answer or deny the same. Such plea, answer,
or denial, may be oral or in writing, and immediately thereafter the
case shall be tried, unless for good cause shown an adjournment be
granted.

§ 639. In all actions for violation of an ordinance where the fine,
forfeiture, or penalty imposed by‘ the ordinance is less than fifty dollars,

the trial shall be by the Court. In actions where the fine, forfeiture, or
penalty imposed by the ordinance is over fifty dollars, the defendant
shall be entitled, if demanded by him, to a jury of six persons.

§ 640. From a judgment in a civil action in a Recorder’s or Mayor’s
Court, an appeal may be taken to the County Court. The appeal shall
be taken and the proceedings thereon conducted in the same manner as
appeals are taken from a judgment in a civil action in a Justice’s Court,
and as the proceedings thereon are conducted.

§ 641. All proceedings in civil actions in Recorders’ and Mayors’
Courts, except as herein otherwise provided, shall be conducted in the
same manner as in civil actions in Justices’ Courts.

§ 64 2. The provisions of this Title shall be applicable to civil actions
in Recorders’ and Mayors’ Courts already established, or which may
hereafter be established in any incorporated city of this State.

TITLE XVIII.
Miscellaneous Provisions.

§ 643. The Supreme Court may make rules not inconsistent with
the Constitution and laws of the State, for its own government, and
the government of the District Courts, and the Superior Court of the
City of San Francisco; but such rules shall not be in force until thirty

days after their adoption and publication.

§ 644. The County Clerk shall be the Clerk of the County Court, the
Court of Sessions, and the Probate Court of his County. Until otherwise provided by law, the. Clerk of the Superior Court of the City of
San Francisco shall be appointed by the said Court.

§ 645. If an action be brought against a Sheriff for an act done by
virtue of his office, and he give written notice thereon to the sureties on
any bond of indemnity received by him, the judgment recovered therein
shall be conclgive evidence of his right to recover against such sureties;
and the Courtc’ or Judge in vacation may, on motion, upon notice of five
days, order judgment to be entered up against them for the amount so
recovered, including costs.

§ 646. Whenever a summons, or other process, is served upon a
party who is unable to read, or who does not understand the English
language, it shall be the duty of the emcer making the service to
explain to such party the nature of the summons, or other process. In
the Counties of Santa Clara. Santa Cruz, Monterey, San Luis Obispo,
Santa Barbara, Contra Costa, Los Angeles, and San Diego, it shall be
the duty of the oliicer to give to the defendant, if said defendant shall
require it, a copy of the summons or other process in the Spanish language; and in the Counties of Santa Barbara, San Luis Obispo, Los
Angeles, and San Diego, it shall be lawful, with the consent of both parties, to have the process, pleadings, and other proceedings in a cause in
the Spanish language.

§ 647. Words used in this Act in the present tense shall be deemed

to include the future as well as the present; words used in the singular
number shall be deemed to include the plural, and the plural the singular; writing shall be deemed to include printing or printed paper; oath
to include atiirmation or declaration ; signature or subscription, to include
mark when the person cannot write, his name being written near it, and
witnessed by a person who writes his own name as a witness.
§ 648. The following Statutes, namely: the Act entitled “ An Actto
regulate proceedings in Civil Cases in the District Court, the Superior
Court of the City of San Francisco, and the Supreme Court,” passed
April twenty-second, eighteen hundred and fifty; the Act entitled “ An
Act to regulate proceedings against Debtors by Attachment,” passed
April twenty-second, eighteen hundred and fifty; the Act entited “An
Act providing for the collection of demands against Vessels and Boats,”
passed April tenth, eighteen hundred and fifty; the Act entitled “An
Act to regulate proceedings in Courts of Justices of the Peace in Civil
Cases,” passed April tenth, eighteen hundred and fifty; and the Act
entitled “An Act to regulate proceedings in the County Courts in Cases
of Appeal from the Courts of Justices of the Peace,” passed April
eleventh, eighteen hundred and fifty; the Act entitled “ An Act respecting set-0&3,” passed [April] twenty-second, eighteen hundred and fifty,
are hereby repealed; but such repeal shall not invalidate any judgment
rendered, or order made, or any proceeding already taken by virtue of
said Statutes.
§ 649. This Act shall take effect on the first day of July of the present year.


