§ 1. This act shall be known as the code of civil procedure of California, and is divided into four parts, as follows: Part I. of courts of justice. II. of civil actions. III. Of special proceedings of a civil nature. Iv. of evidence.

§ 2. This Code takes effect at twelve o’clock noon,
on the first day of January, eighteen hundred and
seventy-three.

§ 3. No part of it is retroactive, unless expressly so
declared.

§ 4. The rule of the common law, that statutes in
derogation thereof are to be strictly construed, has no
application to this Code. The Code establishes the
law of this State respecting the subjects to which it
relates, and its provisions and all proceedings under it
are to be liberally construed, with a view to effect its
objects and to promote justice.

§ 5. The provisions of this Code, so far as they are
substantially the same as existing statutes, must be
construed as continuations thereof, and not as new
enactments.

§ 6. All persons who at the time this Code takes
effect hold office under any of the Acts repealed, continue to hold the same according to the tenure thereof;
except those offices which are not continued by one of
the Codes adopted at this session of the Legislature.

§ 7. When any office is abolished by the repeal of
any Act, and such Act is not in substance reénacted
or continued in either of the Codes, such office ceases
at the time the Codes take effect.

§ 8. No action or proceeding commenced’ before this
Code takes effect, and no right accrued, is affected by
its provisions, but the proceedings therein must conform to the requirements of this Code as far as applicable.

§ 9. When a limitation or period of time prescribed
in any existing statute for acquiring a right or barring
a remedy, or for any other purpose, has begun to run
before this Code takes effect, and the same, or any
limitation, is prescribed in this Code, the time of limitation continues to run and has the like effect as if the
whole period had begun and ended after its adoption.

§ 10. Holidays, Within the meaning of this Code, are:
every Sunday, the first day of January, the twentysecond day of February, the fourth day of July, the
twenty-fifth day of December, every day on which an
election is held throughout the State, and every day
appointed by the President of the United States, or by
the Governor of this State, for a public fast, thanksgiving, or holiday.

§ 11. If the first day of January, the twenty-segfj
day of February, or the twenty-fifth day of December
falls upon a Sunday, the Monday following is a holiday.

§ 12. The time in Which any act provided by law is
to be done is computed by excluding the first day, and
including the last, unless the last day is a holiday, and
then it is also excluded.

§ 13. Whenever any act of a secular nature, other
than a Work of necessity or mercy, is appointed by law
or contract to be performed upon a particular day,
which day falls upon a holiday, such act may be performed upon the next business day with the same effect
as if it had been performed upon the day appointed.

§ 14. When the seal of a Court, public officer, or
person is required by law to be afhxed to any paper,
the word “seal” includes an impression of such seal

upon the paper alone as well as upon Wax or a wafer
ed thereto. J

§ 15. Words giving a joint authority to three or more
public officers or other persons are construed as giving
such authority to a majority of them, unless it is otherWise expressed in the Act giving the authority.

§ 16. Words and phrases are construed according to
the context and the approved usage of the language;
but technical Words and phrases, and such others as
have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law, or are defined in the succeeding section, are to be
construed according to such peculiar and appropriate

meaning or definition,

§ 17. Whenever the terms mentioned in this section
' are employed in this Code they are employed in the
senses hereafter afhxed to them, except Where a
diiferent sense plainly appears:
1’ ‘+The term “ signature” includes any name, mark,
9 .gn, Written with intent to authenticate any instrument or Writing.

2. The term “ writing ” includes both printing and
writing.

3. The term “land,” and the phrases “real estate ”
and “real property," includes lands, tenements, and
hereditaments, and all rights thereto, and interests
therein. .

4. The Words “ personal property ” include money,
goods, chattels, evidence of debt, and “things in
action."

5. The Word “property” includes personal and
real property.

6. The Word “month” means a calendar month,
unless otherwise expressed; and the word “year,”

a‘ (1 also the abbreviation “A. D.,” is equivalent to
tlli: expression “ year of our Lord.”
7. The word “ oath” includes “affirmation ’ in all

cases ere an afhrmation may be substituted an
oath; an in like cases the word “swear” mcludes
the word “afhrm.” Every mode of oral statement
under oath or affirmation is embraced by the term
“testify,” and every written one in the term “depose.”

8. The Word “ State,” when applied to the different
parts of the United States, includes the District of
Columbia and the Territories; and the Words “United
States ” may include the District and Territories.

9. VVhere the term. “ person” is used in this Code
to" designate the party whose property may be the
subject of any offense, action, or proceeding, it includesnthis State, any other State, Government, or
country which may lawfully own any property Within
this State, and all public and private corporations or
joint associations, as well as individuals.

10. The iword “ person” includes bodies politic and
corporate.

11. The singular number includes the plural,
the plural the singular.

12. Words used in the masculine gender comprehend as well the feminine and neuter.

13. Words used in the present tense include the
future, but exclude the past.
14. The word “ Will" includes codicils.

15. The word “writ ” signifies an order or precept
in writing, issued in the name of the people, or of a
Court, or judicial officer.

16. “ Process" is a Writ or summons issued in the
course of judicial proceedings.

17. The word “vessel,” when used with reference
to shipping, includes ships of all kinds, steamboats,
and steamships, canal boats, and every structure
adapted to be navigated from place to place.

18. The term “peace officer” signifies any one of

the officers mentioned in Section 817 of THE PENAL
Cons.

19. The term “ magistrate” signifies any one of the
officers mentioned in Section 808 of THE PENAL Coma.

§ 18. No statute, law, or rule is continued in force
because it is consistent with the provisions of this Code
on the same subject; but in all cases provided for by
this Code, all statutes, laws, and rules heretofore in
force in this State, whether consistent or not with the
provisions of this Code, unless expressly continued in
force by it, are repealed and abrogated. This repeal
or abrogation does not revive any former law heretofore repealed, nor does it affect any right already
existing or accrued, or any action or proceeding already
taken, except as in this Code provided; nor does it
affect any private statute not expressly repealed.

§ 19. This Act, Whenever cited, enumerated, referred
to, or amended, may be designated simply as “THE
Conn or CIVIL Paoci-JDURE,” adding, when necessary,
the number of the section.

§ 20. Judicial remedies are such as are administered
by the Courts of justice, or by judicial oiiicers empowered for that purpose by the Constitution and statutes
of this State.

§ 21. These remedies are divided into two classes:
1. Actions; and,
2. Special proceedings.

§ 22. An action is an ordinary proceeding in a Court
of justice by which one party prosecutes another for
the enforcement or protection of a right, the redress
or prevention of a wrong, or the punishment of a public offense.

§ 23. Every other remedy is a special proceeding.

§ 24. Actions are of two kinds:
1. Civil; and,
2. Criminal.

§ 25. A civil action arises out of:
1. An obligation;
2. An injury.

§ 26. An obligation is a legal duty, by which one
person is bound to the performance of an act towards
another, and arises from:

1. The contract of the parties; or,
2. The operation of law.

§ 27. An injury is of two kinds:
1. To the person; and,
2. To property.

§ 28. An injury to property consists in depriving its
owner of the benefit of it, which is done by taking,
withholding, deteriorating, or destroying it.

§ 29. Every other injury is an injury to the person.

§ 30. A civil action is prosecuted by one party
against another for the enforcement or protection of a
right, or the redress or prevention of a Wrong.

§ 31. THE PENAL Cons defines and provides for’ the
prosecution of a criminal action.

§ 32. When the violation of a right admits of both
a civil and criminal remedy, the right to prosecute the
one is not merged in the other.


§ 33. The following are the Courts of justice of this
State:

The Court for the trial of impeachments;

. The Supreme COl11't;

3. The District Courts;

4. The County Courts;

5. The Probate Courts;

6. The Municipal Criminal Court of San Francisco;


. The Justices’ Courts;
. The Police Courts.

§ 34. The Coiirts enumerated in the first six subdivisions of the preceding section are Courts of record.

§ 35. The Court for the trial of impeachmeuts is
composed of the members of the Senate, or a majority
of them.

§ 36. The Court has power to try impeachments,
when presented by the Assembly, of the Governor,
Lieutenant Governor, Secretary of State, Controller,
Treasurer, Attorney General, Surveyor General, Justices of the Supreme Court, and Judges of the District Courts, for any misdemeanor in office.

§ 37. The oiiicers of the Senate are the officers of
the Court.

§ 38. Proceedings on the trial of impeachments are
provided for in THE PENAL CODE.

§ 40. The Supreme Court consists of a Chief Justice
and four Associate Justices, elected at the judicial

elections, and holding their oiiices for the term of ten

years from the first day of January next after their
election.

§ 41. The Justice having the shortest term to serve
is the Chief Justice.

§ 42. The jurisdiction of this Court is of two kinds:
1. Original; and,
2. Appellate. ‘

§ 43. Its original jurisdiction extends to the issuance of writs of mandate, review, prohibition, habeas
corpus, and all writs necessary to the exercise of its
appellate jurisdiction.

§ 44. Its appellate jurisdiction extends:

1. To all civil actions for relief formerly given in
Courts of equity;

2. To all civil actions in which the subject of litigation is not capable of pecuniary estimation;

3. To all civil actions in which the subject of litigation is capable of pecuniary estimation which involve
the title or possession of real estate, or the legality of
any tax, impost, assessment, toll, or municipal fine, or
in which the demand, exclusive of interest, or the
value of the property in controversy, amounts to three
hundred dollars;

4. To all special proceedings;

5. To all cases arising in the Probate Courts; and, 6. To all criminal actions amounting to felony, on
questions of law alone.

§ 45. The Court may reverse, aftirm, or modify any
order or judgment appealed from, and may direct the
proper judgment or order to be entered, or direct a
new trial or further proceedings to be had. Its judgment must be remitted to the Court from which the
appeal was taken. 0

§ 46. The presence of three Justices is necessary for
the transaction of business, but one or more of the
Justices may transact such business as can be done at
chambers, and may adjourn the Court from day to day,
with the same effect as if all were present. ’

§ 47. The concurrence of three Justices is necessary
to pronounce a judgment; if three do not concur, the
case must be reheard.

§ 48. For the purpose of issuing Writs of mandate,
review, prohibition, habeas corpus, and all Writs neces—
sary to the exercise of its appellate jurisdiction, filing
opinions, and entering orders and judgments, this Court
is always open and in session.

§ 49. There must be four terms in each year, for the
hearing of causes, to commence on the second Monday
of January, April, July, and October. Additional
terms may also be held by order of the Court.

§ 50. The terms of this Court must be held at the
Capital of the State. If proper rooms in which to
hold the Court, and for _the chambers of the Justices,
are not provided by the State, together with attendants, furniture, fuel, lights, and stationery, suitable and
sufficient for the transaction of business, the Court
may direct the Sheriff of the county in which it is
held to provide such rooms, attendants, furniture, fuel,
lights, and stationery; and the expenses thereof, certified by a majority of the Justices to be correct, must
be paid out of the State Treasury.

§ 51. That justice of the supreme court, elected by the people, who has the shortest term to serve under his commission is the chief justice after the expiration fo the term of the present justice.

§ 52. In case two or more of the Justices of the Supreme Court shall be euqally entitled to the office of Chief Justice after the expiration fo the term of the present Chief Justice, and neither of the wo shall voluntarily and in writing waive his right to be such Chief Justice, then such Justices shall determine by lot which of them shall hold such office, and a record fo the allotment or waiver shall be entered in the minutes of the court, and a certified copy thereof shall be transmitted to the Secretary of State, and be filed in his office.

§ 53. Every civil cause on appeal in the Supreme Court must be decided, and the decision of the Court filed, within six months after the same is submitted; if not so decided, an dthe decision filed, the cause may, on notice of either party, of at least thirty days, to the adverse party, be again placed on the calendar for a reargument.

§ 53. Every cause which shall ahve been pending on appeal in said Court, for a period of six months prior to the taking effect of this Act, and shall have been submitted, shall, on notice filed and served, by either party, on the adverse party and the Clerk of the Court, thirty days before the commencement of the next succeeding term, be placed on the calendar for that term for reargument.

§ 54. The State is divided into Seventeen Judicial
Districts.

§ 55. There must be a District Court held in each
of the judicial districts.

§ 56. The Judge thereof is elected by the electors
of the district, at the judicial elections, and holds his

office for the term of six years from the first day of

January next succeeding his election.

§ 57. The jurisdiction of the District Courts extends: a

1. To all civil actions for relief formerly given in
Courts of equity;

2. To all civil actions in which the subject of litigation is not capable of pecuniary estimation;

3. To all civil actions (except actions of forcible
entry and detainer) in which the subject of litigation
is capable of pecuniary estimation, which involve the title or possession of real estate, or the legality of any
tax, impost, assessment, toll, or municipal fine, or in
which the demand, exclusive of interest, or the value
of the property in controversy, amounts to three hundred dollars; '

4. To all special proceedings not within the jurisdiction of the County and Probate Courts, as defined
in this Code;

5. To the issuance of writs of mandate, review, prohibition, habeas corpus, and all writs necessary to the
exercise of its powers;

6. To the trial of all indictments for treason, misprision of treason, murder, and manslaughter.

§ 58. In the First Judicial District, terms of the District Court must be held as follows:

In the County of San Luis Obispo, on the first Monday of January, May, and September;

In the County of Santa Barbara, on the third Monday of February, June, and October.

§ 59. In the Second Judicial District, terms of the
District Court must be held as follows:

In the County of Butte, on the first Monday of
March, third Monday of November, and second Monday of July;

In the County of Lassen, on the second Monday of
June, and second Monday of September;

In the County of Plumas, on the fourth Monday of
May, and first Monday of October;

In the County of Tehama, on the fourth Monday of
October, fourth Monday of January, and first Monday
of May.

§ 60. In the Third Judicial District, terms of the
District Court must be held as follows:

In the County of Alameda, on the third Monday of
February, June, and October;

In the County of Monterey, on the first Monday of
April, and October;

In the County of Santa Clara, on the second Monday of January, May, and September;
. In the County of Santa Cruz, on the second Monday
of April, August, and December.

§ 61. In the Fourth Judicial District, terms of the
District Court must be held as follows:

In the County of San Francisco, on the first Monday
of February, May, August, and November.

§ 62. In the Fifth Judicial District, terms of the
District Court must be held as follows:

In the County of San J oaquin-, on the nrst Monday
of February, May, and August, and on the third Monday of October; ‘

In the County of Stanislaus, on the second Monday
of January, April, and September;

In the County of Tuolumne, on the first Monday of
March and July, and on the third Monday of November.

§ 63. In the Sixth Judicial District, terms of the
District Court must be held as follows:

In the County of Sacramento, on the first Monday
of February, April, June, August, October, and December;

In the County of Yolo, on the third Monday of January, May, and September.

§ 64. In the Seventh Judicial District, terms of the 1
District Court must be held as follows: I

In the County of Lake, on the third Monday of
April, and second Monday of November;

In the County of Marin, on the first Monday of
March and July, and third Monday of November;

In the County of Mendocino, on the second Monday
of April, third Monday of July, and first Monday of
November;

In the County of Napa, on the first Monday of February, June, and October; , v

In the County of Solano, on the third Monday of
January, May, and September;

In the County of Sonoma, on the third Monday of
February, June, and October.

§ 65. In the Eighth Judicial District, terms of the
District Court must be held as follows:

In the County of Del Norte, on the second Monday
of May, August, and November;

In the County of Humboldt, on the second Monday
of March, June, September, and December;

In the County of Klamath, on the second Monday
of April, July, and October.

§ 66. In the Ninth Judicial District, terms of the
District Court must be held as follows:

In the County of Shasta, on the second Monday of
March, June, and November;

In the County of Siskiyou, on the third Monday of
January, May, and September;
In the County of Trinity, on the second Monday of

, April, August, and December.

§ 67. In the Tenth Judicial District, terms of the
District Court must be held as follows:

In the County of Colusa, on the first Monday of
May, September, and December;

In the County of Sierra, on the first Monday of
April, second .Monday of July, and tourth Monday of
October; .

In the County of Sutter, on the fourth Monday of
February and June, and third Monday of October;

In the County of Yuba, on the third Monday of
January, May, and September.

§ 68. In the Eleventh Judicial District, terms of
the District Court must be held as follows:

In the County of Amador, on the second Monday
of March, June, September, and December;

In the County of Calaveras, on the second Monday
of January, April, July, and October;

In the County of El Dorado, on the second Monday

of February and May, and on the third Monday of
August and November.

§ 69. In the Twelfth Judicial District, terms of the
District Court must be held as follows:

In the County of San Francisco, on the first Monday of January, April, July, and October;

In the County of San Mateo, on the third Monday
of March and fourth Monday of June, September,

and December. _
§ 1. The terms of the District Court of the
Twelfth Judicial District, in and for the County of San
Mateo, shall commence on the second Monday in February and the fourth Mondays in May, August, and
November, in each year, and may be continued from
day to day, and adjourned from time to -time, as the
business of the Court shall require. Nothing in this section, however, shall be construed as ending a term
of said Twelfth District Court, in and for the City and
County of San Francisco, by reasorfof the commencement or holding of a regular or adjourned term in the
County of San Mateo; but whenever the Court is about
to open in San Mateo County the Court in San Francisco may be adjourned over, and at the close of the

session in San Mateo County the business of the term
in San Francisco may be resumed.

§ 70. In the Thirteenth Judicial District, terms of
the District Court must be held as follows:

In the County of Fresno, on the third Monday or
January and May, and second Monday of October;

In the County of Mariposa, on the first Monday of
February, June, and October;

In the County of Merced, on the fourth Monday of
January, May, and September;

In the County of Tulare, on the first Monday of
January and May, and third Monday of October.

§ 71. In the Fourteenth Judicial District, terms of
the District Court must be held as follows:

In the County_of Nevada, on the second Monday of
March, June, September, and December;

In the County of Placer, on the first Monday of
February, May, August, and November.

§ 1. Whenever, in the discretion of the Judges
of the District, County, or Probate Courts in and for the
County of Nevada, the ends of justice will be promoted and expenses to the parties interested decreased by
holding sessions of said Courts at the Town of Truckee,
such Judges may, by order, set a time for holding such
sessions and trying such cases as appear regularly upon
the docket from the Township of Meadow Lake, on the
first day of each term.

§ 2. When such sessions are held as heretofore
provided, all the ofdcers of the county ‘rho are required
to attend upon the Court. the session of which has been
appointed, shall be present at said time with all records
and papers required in the trial of said cases in the
respective Courts, and there perform such duties as are
now required by law.

§ 3. The Judges of the Courts herein specified
are authorized, if in their judgment it be necessary, to
appoint Court Commissioners at the Town of Truckee,
who may make such orders and transact such business

. as said Judges are by law authorized to do in chambers;
provided, that all such business must be approved by
the Judges of said Courts.

§ 72. In the Fifteenth Judicial District, terms of the
District Court must be held as follows:

In the" County of Contra Costa, on the third Tuesday
of April, July, and November;

In the City and County of San Francisco, on the
first Monday of March, June, September, and December.

§ 73. In the Sixteenth Judicial District, terms of the
District Court must be held as follows:

In the County of Alpine, on the first Monday of
April and October;

In the County of Inyo, on the first Monday of May
and November;

In the County of Kern, on the third Monday of May
and November;

In the County of Mono, on the third Monday of
April and October.

§ 74. In the Seventeenth Judicial District, terms of
the District Court must be held as follows:

In the County of Los Angeles, on the first Monday
of February, May, August, and November;

In the County of San Bernardino, on the first Monday of January, June, and September;

In the County of San Diego, on the first Monday of
April, July, and October.

§ 75. The terms of the District COurts must be held at the county seats of the several counties.

§ 76. Each term must be held until the business is disposed of, or until a day fixed for the commencement of some other term in the district.

§ 77. The Court may adjourn from time to time during the term, and may, when the public convenience requires, adjourn the term over the time fixed by law for the commencement of another term in the same district.

§ 78. Judgment and orders of this Court may be entered either in term or vacation.

§ 82. There must be a County Court held in each of
the counties, by the County Judge thereof.

§ 83. The County Judge is elected by the electors
of the county, at the judicial elections, and holds his
office for the term of four years from the first day of
January next succeeding his election.

§ 84. The jurisdiction of this Court is of two kinds:
1. Original; and,
2. Appellate.

§ 85. Its original jurisdiction extends:

1. To actions to prevent or abate a nuisance;

2. To actions of forcible entry and detainer;

3. To proceedings in insolvency;

4. To all special casesor proceedings in which the
law giving the remedy or authorizing the proceedings
confers the jurisdiction upon it;

5. To the issuance of writs of mandate, review, prohibition, habeas corpus, and all writs necessary to the
exercise of its powers;

6. To inquire, by the intervention of a Grand Jury,
of all public offenses committed or triable in the
county;

7. To the trial of all indictments, except for treason,
misprision of treason, murder, and manslaughter.

§ 86. Its appellate jurisdiction extends to all cases
arising in Justices’ or Police Courts. °

§ 87. The proceedings of this Court are construed
in the same manner, and with like intendments, as the
proceedings of Courts of general jurisdiction, and to
its records, orders, judgments, and decrees there is
accorded like force, effect, and legal presumptions as
to the records, orders, judgments, and decrees of District Courts. A

§ 88. The terms of the County Courts in the respective counties must be held as follows:

In the County of Alameda, on the first Monday of
January, April, and July, and third Monday of September;

In the County of Alpine, on the first Monday of
February, June, and October;

In the County of Amador, on the first Monday of
February, May, August, and November;

In the County of Butte, on the first Monday of J anuary, March, May, July, September, and November;

In the County of Calaveras, on the first Monday of
March, June, September, and December;

In the County of Colnsa, on the third Monday of J anuary, April, July, and October;

In the County of Contra Costa, on the_first Monday
of March, August, and November;

In the County of Del Norte, on the first Monday of
April, July, and October; '

In the County of El l)orado, on the second Monday
of March, June, September, and December;

In the County of Fresno, on the first Monday of
January, March, May, July, September, and November;

In the County of Humboldt, on the first Monday of
January, March, May, July, September, and November;

In the County of Inyo, on the nrst Monday of J anuary, March, May,'July, September, and November;

In the County of Kern, on the first Monday of January, March, May, July, September, and November;

In the County of Klamath, on the first Monday of
April, July, and October;

In the County of Lake, on the first Monday of January, April, July, and October;

In the County of Lassen, on the first Monday of
February, May, August, and November;

In the County of Los Angeles, on the first Monday
of January, March, May, July, September, and November;

In the County of Marin, on the third Monday of
March, June, September, and December;

In the County of Mariposa, on the first Monday of
January, March, May, July, September, and November;

In the County of Mendocino, on the first Monday of
March, June, September, and December; .

In the County of Merced, on the first Monday of
January, March, May, July, September, and Novemher;

In the County of Mono, on the first Monday of J anuary, May, and September;

In the County of Monterey, on the second Monday
of January and July, and third Monday of March and
September;

In the County of Napa, on the first Monday of
March, September, and December, and third Monday
of June;

In the County of Nevada, on the first Monday of
February, May, August, and November;

In the County of Placer, on the first Monday of
January, March, May, July, September, and November;

In the County of Plnmas, on the first Monday of
March, June, September, and Deceinber;

In the County of Sacramento, on the first Monday
of January, April, July, and October;

In the County of San Bernardino, on the first Monday of January, March, May, July, September, and

November;
In the County of San Diego, on the first Monday of

January, March, May, July, September, and November;

In the County of San Francisco, on the first Monday
of January, March, May, July, September, and N 0vember;
In the County of San Joaquin, on the first Monday
of January, March, May, July, September, and November;
In the County of San Luis Obispo, on the first Monday of March, June, September, and December;

In the County. of San Mateo; on the first Monday of
February and June, and last Monday of September;

In the County of Santa Barbara, on the first Monday
of March, June, September, and December;

In the County of Santa Clara, on the third Monday
of Eebruary, May, August, and November;

In the County of Santa Cruz, on the first Monday of
January, March, May, July, September, and Novemher;

In the County of Shasta, on the lirst Monday of

January, May, and September;
In the County of Sierra, on the third Monday of

‘ April, June, and September, and second Monday of

December; '
In the County of Siskiyou, on the first Monday of

January, March, May, July, September, and November;

In the County of Solano, on the third Monday of
April, August, and December; .

In the County.of Sonoma, on the first Monday of
January, April, July, and October;

In the County of Stanislaus, on the first Monday of
January, March, May, July, September, and Novemher;

In the County of Sutter, on the first Monday of
January, April, July, and October;

In the County of Tehama, on the first Monday of
January, March, May, July, September, and November; ’

In the County of Trinity, on the first Monday of
January, March, May, July, September, and November;

In the County of Tulare, on the first Monday of
January, March, May, July, September, and Novemher;

In the Cotmty of Tuolumne, on the lirst Monday of
January, May, and September;

In the County of Yolo, on the first Monday of January, April, July, and October; '

In the County of Yuba, on the first Monday of January, April, and July, and second Monday of October.

§ 89. For the purpose of hearing and determining actions arising under the forcible entry and detainer Act of this state, motions for new trials, and the entry of orders and judgments, this court is always open and in session.

§ 90. The terms of the county courts must be held at the county seats.


§ 94. There must be a Probate Court held in each
of the counties.

§ 95. The County Judge of each county, except in
the City and County of San Francisco, is the Judge
of the Probate Court.

§ 96. In the City and County of San Francisco the
Probate Court is held by a Probate’ Judge elected by
the electors thereof, at the judicial elections, and Who
holds his office for the term of four years from the
first day of January next succeeding his election.

§ 97. The Probate Court has jurisdiction:

1. To open and receive proof of last Wills and testaments, and to admit them to proof;

2. To grant letters testamentary, of administration
and of guardianship, and to revoke the same;

3. To appoint appraisers of estates of deceased
persons;

4. To compel executors, administrators, and guardians to render accounts;

5. To order the sale of property of estates, or belonging to minors;

6. To order the payment of debts due from estates;

7. To order and regulate all distributions of property or estates of deceased persons;

8. To compel the attendance of witnesses, and the

production of title deeds, papers, and other property
of an estate, or of a minor;

9. To exercise the powers conferred by Title XI,
Part III of this Code;

10. To make such orders as may be necessary to
the exercise of the powers conferred upon it.

§ 98. The proceedings of this Court are construed
in the same manner, and with like intendments, as
the proceedings of Courts of general jurisdiction, and
to its records, orders, judgments, and decrees there is
accorded like force, e&'ect, and legal presumptions as
to the records, orders, judgment, and decrees of District Court.

§ 99. The terms of the Probate Court in the respective counties must be held as follows:

In the County of Alameda, on the first Monday of
January, April, and July, and third Monday of September; I

In the County of Alpine, on the lirst Monday of
February, June, and October;

In the County of Amador, on the lirst Monday of
February, May, August, and November;

In the County of Butte, on the first Monday of January, March, May, July, September, and November;

In the County of Calaveras, on the first Monday of
March, June, September, and December;

In the County of Colusa, on the first Monday of each
month;

In the County of Contra Costa, on the first Monday
of March, August, and November;

In the County of Del Norte, on the first Monday of
April, July, and October;

In the County of El Dorado, on the second Monday
of January, April, July, and October;

In the County of Fresno, on the first Monday of

January, March, May, July, September, and November;

In the County of Humboldt, on the first Monday of
January, March, May, July, September, and November;

In the County of Inyo, on the first Monday of January, March, May, July, September, and November;

In the County of Kern, on the first Monday of January, March, May, July, September, and November;

In the County of Klamath, on the first Monday of
April, July, and October; In the County of Lake, on the first Monday of January, April, July, and October;

In the County of Lassen,’ on the first Monday of
February, May, August, and November;

In the County of Los Angeles, on the first Monday
of January, March, May, July, September, and N ovember;

In the County of Marin, on the third Monday of
March, June, September, and December;

In the County of Mariposa, on the first Monday of
January, March, May, July, September, and November;

In the County of Mendocino, on the first Monday of
March, June, September, and December;

In the County of Merced, on the first Monday of
January, March, May, July, September, and November;

In the County of Mono, on the first Monday of January, May, and September;

In the County of Monterey, on the first Monday of
each month;

In the County of Napa, on the first Monday of
March, September, and December, and third Monday
of June;

In the County of Nevada, on the first Monday of
each month; A

In the County of Placer, on the first Monday of January, March, May, July, September, and November;

In the County of Plumas, on the first Monday of
March, June, September, and December;

In the County of Sacramento, on the first Monday
of January, April, July, and October;

In the County of San Bernardino, on the fourth Monday of each month; ,

In the County of San Diego, on the first Monday of
January, March, May, July, September, and November; .
In the County of San Francisco, on the lirst Monday of each month; .

In the County of San Joaquin, on the first Monday
of January, March, May, July, September, and November;
In the County of San Luis Obispo, on the first Monday of March, June, September, and December;

In the County of San Mateo, on the first Monday of
February and June, and last Monday of September;

In the County of Santa Barbara, on the first Monday
of March, June, September, and December;

In the County of Santa Clara, on the first Monday

of each month;
In the County of Santa Cruz, on the first Monday of

January, March, May, July, September, and Novemher;
In the County of Shasta, on the first Monday of February, April, June, August, October, and December;
In the County of Sierra, on the nrst Monday of each

month; .
In the County of Siskiyou, on the first Monday of

January, March, May, July, September, and Novemher;
In the County of Solano, on the third Monday of
April, August, and December;

In the County of Sonoma, on the nrst Monday of
each month;

In the County of Stanislaus, on the first Monday of
January, March, May, July, September, and November;

In the County of Sutter, on the first Monday of each
month;

In the County of Tehama, on the first Monday of
January, March, May, July, September, and November;

In the County of Trinity, on the first Monday of J anuary, March, May, July, September, and November;

In the County of Tulare, on the first Monday of January, March, May, July, September, and November;

In the County of Tuolumne, on the fourth Monday
of each month; .

In the County of Yolo, on the first Monday of January, April, July, and October;

In the County of Yuba, on the first Monday of each
month.

§ 100. The terms of the Probate Court must be held
at the county seats.

§ 104. The Court known as “The Municipal Criminal Court of San Francisco,” is hereby continued,
with the jurisdiction conferred by this Chapter.

§ 105. The Judge thereof is elected by the electors
of the City and County of San Francisco, and holds
his office for the term of four years from the first day
of January next succeeding his election.

§ 106. Its jurisdiction extends to the trial of all
indictments transmitted to it for trial by the County
Court of the City and County of San Francisco.

§ 107. The proceedings of this Court are construed
in the same manner and with like intendments as the
proceedings of Courts of general jurisdiction, and to
its records, orders, and judgments there is accorded
like force, effect, and legal presumptions, as to the
records, orders, judgment, and decrees of the District

Court.

§ 108. There must be six terms of this Court held
in each year, commencing on the first Monday of ‘January, March, May, July, September, and November.

§ 109. This Court must be held at such place in the
City and County of San Francisco as may be fixed by
the Board of Supervisors.

§ 110. The provisions of Sections 8, 9, 15, and 16,
of an Act to establish a Municipal Criminal Court in
the City and County of San Francisco, approved March
thirty-first, eighteen hundred and seventy, are continued in force.

§ 112. Every Justice of the Peace must hold a Justice's Court in the town or city in which he is elected.

§ 113. Justices of the Peace are elected by the
electors of their respective townships or cities, at the

judicial elections, and hold their offices for two years

from the first day of January next following their
election.

§ 114. The civil jurisdiction of these Courts Within
their respective townships or cities extends:

1. To an action arising on contract, for the recovery
of money only, if the sum claimed, exclusive of interest, does not amount to three hundred dollars;

2. To an action for damages for injury to the person, or for taking or detaining personal property, or
for injuring personal property, or for an injury to real
property, where no issue is raised by the answer involving the plaintifff’s title, or possession of the same,
if the damages claimed do not amount to three hundred dollars;

3. To an action for a line, penalty, or forfeiture, not
amounting to three hundred dollars, given by statute
or the ordinance of an incorporated city or town;

4. To an action. upon a bond or undertaking conditioned for the payment-of money, not amounting to
three hundred dollars, though the penalty exceed that
sum; the judgment to be givenfor the sum actually
due. When the payments are to be made by installments, an action may be brought for each installment
as it becomes due;

5. To an action to recover the possession‘ of personal
property, when the value of such property does not
amount to three hundred dollars;

6. To take and enter judgment on the confession of
a defendant, when the amount confessed, exclusive of
interest, does not amount to three hundred dollars.

§ 115. The jurisdiction conferred by the last section
shall not extend, however: '

1. To a civil action in which the title or possession
of real property is put in issue;

2. Nor to an action or proceeding against ships,
vessels, or boats, or against the owners or masters
thereof, when the suit or proceeding is for the recovery of seamen’s wages for a voyage performed in
whole or in part without the waters of this State.

§ 116. The civil jurisdiction of Justice’s Courts,
within an incorporated city, extends to the limits of
such city, or township in which the city is situated.
Mesne and final process of Justices’ Courts may be

issued to any part of the county in which\ they are
held.

§ 117. These Courts have jurisdiction of the following public otfenses, committed within the respective
counties in which such Courts are established:

1. Petit larceny;

2. Assault and battery, not charged to have been
committed upon a public officer in the discharge of
his duties;

3. Breaches of the peace, riots, affrays, committing
a willful injury. to property, and all misdemeanors punishable by fine not exceeding one thousand dollars, or
imprisonment not exceeding one year, or by both such
fine and imprisonment.

§ 118. These Courts may be held at any place
selected by the Justice holding the same, in the township or city for which he is elected, and they are
always open for the transaction of business.


§ 121. Police Courts are established in incorporated
cities and towns, and their organization, jurisdiction,
and powers provided for in THE POLITICAL Conn, Part
IV.

§ 124. The sittings of every Court of justice are
public, except as provided in the next section.

§ 125. In an action for divorce the Court may direct
the trial of any issue of fact joined therein to be private, and may exclude all persons, except the oiiicers
of the Court, the parties, their witnesses, and counsel.

§ 128. Every Court has power:

1. To preserve and enforce order in its immediate
presence;

2. To enforce order in the proceedings before it, or
before a person or persons empowered to conduct a
judicial investigation under its authority;

3. To provide for the orderly conduct of proceedings before it or its officers;

4. To compel obedience to its judgments, orders,
and process, and to the orders of a Judge out of Court
in an action or proceeding pending therein;

5. To control, in furtherance of justice, the conduct
of its ministerial officers, and of all other persons in
any manner connected With a judicial ptoceeding before it, in every matter appertaining thereto;

6. To compel the attendance of persons to testify in
an action or proceeding pending therein, in the cases
and manner provided in this Code;

7. To administer oaths in an action or proceeding
pending therein, and in all other cases where it may
be necessary in the exercise of its powers and duties;

8. To amend and control its process and orders, so
as to make them conformable to law and justice.

§ 129. Every Court of record may make rules, not
inconsistent with the laws of this State, for its own
government and the government of its officers; but
such rules must neither impose a tax or charge upon
any legal proceeding nor give an allowance to any
officer for services.

§ 130. The rules adopted by the Supreme Court
take effect sixty days, and those adopted by other
Courts, thirty days, after their publication.

§ 133. The Courts of justice may be held, and judicial business may be transacted, on any day except as
provided in the next section.

§ 134. No Court can be opened, nor can any judicial
business be transacted, on Sunday, on the first day
of January, on the fourth of July, on Christmas or
Thanksgiving day, or on a day on which the general
or the judicial election is held, except for the following
purposes:

1. To give, upon their request, instructions to a jury
when deliberating on their verdict;

2. To receive a verdict or discharge a jury;

3. For the exercise of the powers of a magistrate
in a criminal action, or in a proceeding of a criminal
nature.

§ 135. If any of the days mentioned in the last section happen to be the day appointed for the holding
of a Court, or to which it is adjourned, it is deemed
appointed for or adjourned to the next day.

§ 139. If no Judge attend on the day appointed for
holding the Court, or on the day to which it may have
been adjourned, before noon, the Sheriff or Clerk must
adjourn the Court until the next day at ten o’clock; and
if no Judge attend on that day, before noon, the Sheriff
or Clerk must adjourn the Court until the following
day, and so on, from day to day, for one Week.

§ 140. If no Judge attend for one Week, the Sheriff
or Clerk must adjourn the Court for the term, unless

, the Judge, by Written order, directs it to be adjourned

to some day certain, fixed in such order; in which
case, they must so adjourn it.

§ 142. A Judge authorized to hold or preside at a
Court appointed to be held in a county, city, or town,
may, by an order filed with the County Clerk, and
published as he may prescribe, direct that the Court
be held or continued at any other place in the city,
town, or county than that appointed, when War, insurrection, pesfilence, or other public calamity, or the
dangers thereof, or the destruction of the building
appointed for holding the Court, may render it necessary; and may, in the same manner, revoke the order,
and, in his discretion, appoint another place in the
same city, town, or county, for holding the Court.

§ 143. When the Court is held at a place appointed,
as provided in the last section, every person held to
appear at the Court must appear at the place so
appointed.

§ 144. If suitable rooms for holding the District
Courts, County Courts, and Probate Courts, and the
chambers of the Judges of such Courts, be not provided in any county by the Supervisors thereof, together with attendants, furniture, fuel, lights, and
stationery suiiicient. for the transaction of business,
the Courts may direct the Sheriff of such county to
provide such rooms, attendants, furniture, fuel, lights,
and stationery, and the expenses thereof are a charge
against such county.

§ 147. Each of the following Courts has a seal:

1. The Supreme Court;

2. The District Courts;

3. The County Courts ;.

4. The Probate Courts;

5. The Municipal Criminal Court of the City and
County of San Francisco;

6. The Police Court of the City and County of San
Francisco.

§ 148. The seal now used by the Supreme Court
shall be the seal of that Court; and where seals have
been provided for the District, County and Probate
Courts, Municipal Criminal and the Police Court of
the City and County of San Francisco, such seals shall
continue to be used as the seals of those Courts.

§ 149. The several District, County, and Probate
Courts, for which separate seals have not been heretofore provided, shall direct their respective Clerks to

procure seals, which shall be devised by the respective Judges of such Courts, and shall have the following inscriptions surrounding the same:

1. For the District Courts: “District Court, -—County, California.” (Inserting the name of the
county;)

2. For the County Courts: “ County Court, -—County, California.” (Inserting the name of the

county;) ..
3. For the Probate Courts: “Probate Court, -—County, California." (Inserting the name of the
county.)

§ 150. Until the seals devised, as provided in the
last section, are procured, the Clerk of each Court
may use his private seal, Whenever a seal is required.

§ 151. The Clerk of the Court must keep the seal

' thereof.

§ 152. The seal of the Court need not be affixed to
any proceedings therein, except:

1. To a Writ; A

2. To the proof of a Will, or the appointment of an
executor, administrator, or guardian;

3. To the authentication of a copy of a record or
other proceeding of the Court, or an oilicer thereof;
for the purpose of evidence in another Court.

§ 156. No person is eligible to the oiiice of Justice
of the Supreme Court who has notbeeu a citizen of
the United States and a resident of this State, for two

years next preceding his election.

§ 157. No person is eligible to the office of District
Judge who has not been a citizen of the United States
and a resident of this State for two years, and of the
district one year next preceding his election.

§ 158. Each District Judge must reside in his district, and each County and Probate Judge must reside
at the county seat of his respective county.

§ 159. A residence in any part of the City and
County of San Francisco is, Within the meaning of the
two preceding sections, a residence in the judicial districts embracing portions of that city.

§ 160. A District Judge may hold a Court in any
county in this State, upon the request of the Judge of
the district in Which such Court is to be held; and
When, by reason of sickness or absence from the State,
or from any other cause, a Court cannot be held in any
county in a district by the Judge thereof, a certificate
of that fact must be transmitted by the Clerk to the
Governor, who may thereupon direct some other District Judge to hold such Court.

§ 161. Any County or Probate Judge may hold terms,
or portions of terms, of the County or Probate Court,
and perform any or all of the duties of County or Probate Judge in any other county of this State, as well
as in that for which he was elected, in cases of sickness of the proper Judge, or to hear, try, adjudicate,
and determine all causes and matters in which the
County or Probate Judge of the proper county is
interested, or has been employed as an attorney, or is
disqualihed by law from trying or adjudicating.

§ 162. VVhen, from any of the causes mentioned in
the preceding section, a term, or portion of a term, of
the County or Probate Court cannot be held in a county
by a County or Probate Judge thereof, the Judge disqualified may, by consent of the parties to the actions
or proceedings which such Judge is disqualified from
adjudicating, designate the County or Probate Judge
of some other county to hold such term or portion of
a term; and if the parties fail thus to consent, a certificate of the fact of such disqualification, or in the
case of sickness of the Judge, then of the fact of such
sickness, must be transmitted by the County Clerk of
such county to the Governor, who must thereupon
direct some County or Probate Judge of a neighboring
county to hold such term or part of a term.


§ 165. The Justices of the Supreme Court, and each
of them, may, at chambers, grant all orders and writs
which are usually granted in the first instance upon an
ex parte application, except writs of review, mandate,
and prohibition, and may, in their discretion, hear
applications to discharge such orders and writs.

§ 166. District and County Judges, at chambers,
may grant all orders and writs which are usually
granted in the first instance upon ex parte applications,
and may, at chambers, hear and dispose of such writs
and of motions for new trials.

§ 167. The Judges of the Probate Court may, at
chambers, appoint appraisers, receive inventories and
accounts to be filed in the Probate Court; suspend the
powers of executors, administrators, or guardians, in
the cases allowed by law; grant special letters of
administration or guardianship; approve claims and
bonds; and direct the issuance, from the Probate

Courts, of all writs and process necessary in the exercise of their power.

§ 170. A Judge ca11n0t act as such in any of the following cases:

1. In an action or proceeding to which he is a party,
or in which he is interested;

2. When he is related to either party by consanguinity or affinity within the third degree, computed
according to the rules of law; ,

3. VVhen he has been attorney or counsel for either
party in the action or proceeding;

—But this section does not apply to the arrangement
of the calendar or the regulation of the order of business, nor to the power of transferring the_cause to
another county.

§ 171. A Judge cannot act as attorney or counsel in
a Court in which he is Judge, or in an action or proceeding removed therefrom to another Court for trial
or review, or in an action or proceeding from which
an appeal may lie to his own Court.

§ 172. A Justice of the Supreme Court, or Judge
of the District Court, cannot act as attorney or counsel
in any Court of this State, except in an action or proceeding to which he is a party on the record.

§ 173. No Judge or other. elective judicial officer,
or District Court Commissioner, shall have a partner

acting as attorney or counsel in any Court of this
State.

§ 176. A Judge may exercise, out of Court, all the
powers expressly conferred upon a Judge, as contradistinguished from the Court. '

§ 177. Every judicial officer has power:

1. To preserve and enforce order in his immediate
presence, and in the proceedings before him, when he
is engaged in the performance of .an' official duty;

2. To compel obedience to his lawful orders, as provided in this Code;

3. To compel the attendance of persons to testify in
a proceeding before him, in the cases and manner provided in this Code;

4. To administer oaths to persons in a proceeding
pending before him, and in all other cases where it
may be necessary, in the exercise of his powers and
duties. I

§ 178. For the effectual exercise of the powers conferred by the last section, a judicial officer may punish
for contempt, in the cases provided in this Code.

§ 179. The Justices of the Supreme Court, and the
Judges of the District and County Courts, have power
in any part of the State, and Justices of the Peace
within their respective ‘counties, and Police Judges,
and Judges of Municipal Courts, within their respective cities or towns, to take and certify:

1. The proof and acknowledgment of a conveyance
of real property, or of any other written instrument;

2. The acknowledgment of satisfaction of a judgment of any Court;
3. An affidavit or deposition to be used 1n this State.

§ 182. If an application for an order, made to a.
Judge of a Court in Which the action or proceeding is
pending, is refused, in Whole or in part, or is granted
conditionally, no subsequent application for the same
order can be made to any Court Commissioner, or any
other Judge, except of a higher Court; but nothing
in this section applies to motions refused for any
informality in the papers or proceedings necessary to
obtain the order.

§ 183. A violation of the last section may be punished as a contempt, and an order made contrary
thereto may be revoked by the Judge Who made it,
or vacated by a Judge of the Court in which the

action or proceeding is pending.

§ 184. No proceeding in any Court of justice, in an
action or special proceeding pending therein, is
affected by a vacancy in the office of all or any of the
Judges, or by the failure of a term thereof. '

§ 185. Every written proceeding in a Court of justice in this State, or before a judicial officer, except in
the Counties of San Luis Obispo, Santa Barbara, Los
Angeles, and San Diego, must be in the English language, and in the excepted counties may be either in
the English or Spanish language.

§ 186. Such abbreviations as are in common use

may be used, and numbers may be expressed by
figures or numerals in the customary manner.

§ 187. When jurisdiction is, by this Code or by any
other statute, conferred on a Court or judicial officer,
all the means necessary to carry it into effect are also
given; and in the exercise of the jurisdiction, if the
course of proceeding be not specifically pointed out
by this Code or the statute, any suitable process or
mode of proceeding may be adopted which may
appear most conformable to the spirit of this Code.

§ 190. A jury is a body of men temporarily selected
from the citizens of a particular district, and invested
With power to present or indict a person for a public
offense, or to try a question of‘ fact.

§ 191. Juries are of three kind‘:
1. Grand juries;

2. Trial juries;

3. Juries of inquest.

§ 192. A Grand Jury is a body of men, not less than
thirteen nor more than fifteen in number, returned at
stated periods from citizens of the county, before a
Court of competent jurisdiction, and sworn to inquire
of public offenses committed or triable within the
county.

§ 193. A trial jury is a body of men returned from
the citizens of a particular district, before a Court or
oliicer of competent jurisdiction, and sworn to try and
determine, by a unanimous verdict, a question of fact.

§ 194. A trial jury consists of twelve men, unless
the parties to the action or proceeding agree upon a
less number.

§ 195. A jury of inquest is a body of men, su;nmoned from the citizens of a particular district, before
the Sheriff, Coroner, or other ministerial officer, to
inquire of particular facts.

§ 198. A person is competent to act as a juror if he
be:

1. A citizen of the United States, an elector of the
county, and a resident of the township at least three
months before being selected and returned;

2. In possession of his natural faculties and not
decrepit;

3. Possessed of sufficient knowledge of the language in which the proceedings of the Courts are had;

4. Assessed on the last assessment roll of his county,
on property belonging to him.

§ 199. A person is not competent to act as a juror:

1. Who does not possess the qualifications prescribed by the preceding section;

2. Who has been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor, involving moral turpitude.

§ 200. A person is exempt from liability to act as
a juror if he be:

1. A judicial, civil, or military officer of the United
States, or of the State of California;

2. A person holding a county office;

3. An attorney and counselor at law;

4. A minister of the gospel or a priest of any denomination; _

6. A teacher in a college, academy, or school;

6. A practicing physician;

7. An officer, keeper, or attendant of an almshouse,
hospital, asylum, or other charitable institution;

8. Engaged in the performance of duty as officer or
attendant of a County Jail or the State Prison;

9. Employed on board of a vessel navigating the
Waters of this State;

10. An express agent, mail carrier, telegraph operator, or keeper of a public ferry or toll gate;

11. An active member of the fi‘ , department of any
city, town, or village in this State, or an exempt member by reason of five years active service;

12. A superintendent, engineer, or conductor on a
railroad.

§ 201. A juror cannot be excused by the Court for
slight or trivial cause, or for hardship, or inconveni' ence to his business, but only when material injury or

destruction to his property, or that of the public
intrusted to him, is threatened, or When his own
health, or the sickness or death of a member of his
family, requires his absence.

§ 204. The Board of Supervisors of each county
must, at their first regular meeting in each year, or at
any other meeting if neglected at the first, make a
list of persons to serve as jurors in Courts of record
for the ensuing year.

§ 205. They must proceed to select and list from
those assessed on the assessment roll of the previous
year, suitable persons, competent to serve as jurors;
and in making such selection, they must take the
names of such onl___ as are not exempt from serving,
who are in possession of their natural faculties, and
not infirm or decrepit, of fair character, of approved
integrity, and of sound judgment.

§ 206. Such lists must contain not less than one for
every hundred inhabitants of each township or Ward,
having regard to the population of the county, so that
the whole number of jurors selected in the county

shall amount, at least, to one hundred, and not exceed
one thousand.

§ 207. In making such selection, the Board must
not select any of the same persons who actually served
as jurors at any term of Court during the preceding
year; and if such persons are drawn and returned to
serve as trial jurors, it will be the duty of the Court
to strike the names of such persons from the list of
jurors, and direct the Sheriff to iill up the list from
among the neighboring citizens competent to serve as
jurors; and in countieshaving ten thousand or more
inhabitants, it shall be a good cause of challenge that
any trial juror, whether on the regular panel or taken
from among the bystanders, has served as a trial juror

at any time within the year next preceding the making of the list of persons to serve as jurors as hereinbefore provided.

§ 208. Certified lists of the persons selected to serve
as jurors must at once be placed in the possession of
the County Clerk.

§ 209. On receiving such lists, the Clerk must file
the same in his office, and write down the names contained therein on separate pieces of paper, of the same
size and appearance, and fold each piece so as to conceal the name thereon, and deposit them in a box to
be called the “jury box.”

§ 210. The persons whose names are so returned are
known as regular jurors, and must serve for one year,
and until other persons are selected and returned.


§ 214. Not less than ten nor more than thirty days
_ before the commencement of any term of Court, the
Judge thereof, if a jury will be required therefore, must
make and file with the County Clerk an order that one
be drawn. The number to be drawn must be fixed in
the order; if to form a Grand Jury, it must be twentyfour, and if a trial jury, such number as the Judge
may direct.

§ 215. At least one day before the drawing, the
Clerk must notify the Sheriff and County Judge of the
time when such drawing will take place, which time
must not be more than three days after the receipt by
him of the order for such drawing.

§ 216. At the time so appointed, the Sheriff, in person or by deputy, and the County Judge, must attend
at the County Clerk’s office to witness such drawing,
and if they do so, the Clerk must, in their presence,
proceed to draw the jurors.

§ 217. If the officers so notified do not appear, the
Clerk must adjourn the drawing until the next day,
and, by written notice, require two electors of the
county to attend such drawing on the adjourned day.

§ 218. If, at the adjourned day, the Sheriff, County
Judge, and electors, or any two of such persons, appear,
the Clerk must in’ their presence proceed to draw the
jurors.

§ 219. The Clerk must conduct such drawing as
follows:

1. He must shake the box containing the names of
jurors returned to him, from which jurors are required
to be drawn, so as to mix the slips of paper upon
which such names were written, as much as possible;

2. He must then publicly draw out of the box as
many such slips of paper as are ordered by the Judge;

3. A minute of the drawing must be kept by one
of the attending officers, in which must be entered
the name contained on every slip of paper so drawn,
before any other slip is drawn;

4. I13 after drawing the Whole number required, the
name of any person has been drawn who is dead or
insane, or who has permanently removed from the
county, to the knowledge of the Clerk or any other
attending oiiicer, an entry of such fact must be made

in the minute of the drawing, and the slip of paper
containing such name must be destroyed;

5. Another name must then be drawn, in place of
that contained on the slip of paper so destroyed, which
must, in like manner, be entered in the minutes of the
drawing;

6. The same proceedings must be had as often as
may be necessary, until the whole number of jurors
required are drawn;

7. The minute of the drawing must then be signed
by the Clerk and the attending oiiicers or persons, and
filed in the Clerk’s office;

8. Separate lists of the names of the persons so
drawn for trial jurors, and of those drawn for grand
jurors, with their places of residence, and specifying
for what Court they were drawn, must be made and
certified by the Clerk and the attending officers or
persons, and delivered to the Sheriff of the county.

§ 220. After the adjournment of any Court at which
jurors have been returned, as herein provided, the
Clerk must inclose the ballots containing the names
of those who attended and served as jurors in an envelop, under seal, and the ballots of those who did
not attend and serve must be returned to the jury
box The ballots sealed in envelops must not be returned to the jury box until all the ballots therein
have been exhausted.

§ 221. The County Clerk must furnish any person
applying therefore, and paying the fees allowed by law
for the same, a copy of the list of jurors drawn to
attend any Court.


§ 225. As soon as he receives the list of jurors
drawn, the Sheriff must summon the persons named
therein to attend, by giving personal notice to each,
or by leaving a written notice at his place of residence, With some person of proper age, a11d must return the list to the Court at the opening thereof,
specifying the names of those who were summoned
and the manner in which each person was notified.

§ 226. VVhenever jurors are not drawn and summoned to attend any Court of record, or a sufficient
number of jurors fail to appear, such Court may, in
its discretion, order a sufficient number to be forthwith drawn and summoned to attend such Court; or
it may, by an order entered on its minutes, direct the
Sheriff of the county forthwith to summon so many
good and lawful men of his county to serve as jurors
as the case may require. And in either case such
jurors must be summoned in the manner provided by
the preceding section. b

§ 227. When there are not competent jurors enough
present to form a panel, the Court may direct the
Sheriff or other proper officer to summon a sufficient
number of persons, having the qualification of jurors,
to complete the panel, from the body of the county and
not from the bystanders, and the Sheriff must summon
the number so ordered, accordingly, and return the
names to the Court. 2

§ 230. When jurors are required in any Police or
J ustice's Court, they must, upon the order of the Judge
or Justice thereof, be summoned by the Sheriff, Marshal, Policeman, or Constable of the jurisdiction.

§ 231. Such jurors must be summoned from the
persons resident of the city or township, competent to
serve as jurors, by notifying them orally that they are
so summoned, and of the time and place at which their
attendance is required.

§ 232. The officer summoning such jurors must, at
the time fixed in the order for their appearance, return

it, with a list of the persons summoned indorsed
thereon.

§ 235. Juries of inquest must be summoned by the
oiiicer before whom the proceedings are had, or any
Sheriff, Policeman, or Constable, from the persons resident of the county competent to serve as jurors, by
notifying them orally that they are so summoned, and

of the time and place at which their attendance is
required.

§ 238. Any juror summoned who willfully, and without reasonable excuse, fails to attend, may be attached
and compelled to attend, and the Court may also impose a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars, upon
which execution may issue. If the juror was not personally served, the fine must not be imposed until,

upon an order to show cause, an opportunity has been
offered the juror to be heard.

§ 241 . At the opening of each regular term of the
County Court (unless otherwise directed by the Judge),
and as often thereafter as to the Judge may seem proper,
a Grand Jury may be empaneled.

§ 242. When, of the jurors summoned, not less than
thirteen nor more than fiiteen attend, they shall constitute the Grand Jury. If more than fifteen attend,
the Clerk must call over the list summoned, and the
iifceen first answering shall constitute the Grand Jury.
If less than thirteen attend, the panel may be iilled to
fifteen as provided in Section 226.

§ 243. Thereafter such proceedings shall be had in

empaneling the Grand Jury as are prescribed in Part
II of THE PENAL Conn.


§ 246. At the opening of Court, on the day trial
jurors have been summoned to appear, the Clerk must
call the names of those summoned, and the Court may
then hear the excuses of jurors summoned. The Clerk
must then write the names of the jurors present and
not excused,,upon separate slips or ballots of paper,
and fold such slips so that the names are‘ concealed,
and then, in the presence of the Court, deposit the
slips or ballots in a box, which must be kept sealed
until ordered by the Court to be opened.

§ 247. When thereafter an action is called for trial
by the Court, such proceedings shall be had in empaneling the trial jury as are prescribed in Part II of this

Code.


§ 250. At the time appointed for a jury trial, in
Police or Justices’ Courts, the list of jurors summoned
must be called, and the names of those attending must
be Written upon separate slips of paper, folded so as to
conceal the names, and placed in a box, from which
the trial jury must be drawn.

§ 251. Thereafter, if the action is a criminal one,
the jury must be empaneled as provided in Tim Psmu.
CODE. If a civil one, as provided in Part II of this
Code.


§ 254. The mode and manner of empaneling juries
of inquest are provided for in the provisions of the different Codes relating to such inquests.


§ 258. The District Courts may .appoint, for each
county of their respective districts, a Commissioner,

to be designated as “Court Commissioner” of the ‘

county. If portions of a single county are assigned
to different districts, then a Commissioner may be
appointed to reside in each portion of the county thus
assigned.

§ 259. Every such Commissioner has power:

1. To hear and determine ex parte motions for orders
and writs (except orders or Writs of injunction) in the
District and County Courts of the county for which he
is appointed;

2. To take proof and report his conclusions thereon,
as to any matter of fact (other than an issue of fact
raised in the pleadings), upon which information is
required by the Court; but any party to the proceedings may except to such report Within four days after
written notice that the same has been filed, and may
argue his exceptions before the Court, on giving notice
of motion for that purpose;

3. To take and approve bonds and undertakings
whenever the same may be required in actions or proceedings in such District and County Courts, and to
examine the sureties thereon when an exception has
been taken to their sufficiency, and to administer oaths
and affirmations, and take affidavits and depositions in
any action or proceeding in any of the Courts of this
State, or in any matter or proceeding Whatever.

§ 262. The modes of election, powers and duties of
the Attorney General, Clerk of the Supreme Court,
Reporter of the Supreme Court, Clerks, Sheriffs, and
Coroners, are prescribed in Tm: POLITICAL AND Pnmu.

§ 265. The Justices of the Supreme Court may appoint a Secretary and Bailiff.

§ 266. The Secretary and Bailiff hold their offices
at the pleasure of the Justices, and must perform such

duties as may be required of them by the  or
any Justice thereof.

§ 269. The Judge of each Judicial District, and
each County Judge, may appoint a competent shorthand Reporter, to hold office during the pleasure of
the Judge,and who must, at the request of either
party, or in the discretion of the Court, in a civil
action or proceeding, or criminal action or proceeding,
on the order of the Court, the District Attorney, or
the counsel for the defendant, take down in shorthand
all the testimony, the rulings of the Court, the exceptions taken, and oral instructions gitn, and must,
within five days, or such reasonable time after the trial
of such case as the Court may designate, write out the
same in plain, legible, longhand writing, verify and
file it, together with the originalshorthand Writing,
with the Clerk of the Court in which the case was

i tried. The Reporter of the County Court of the City

and County of San Francisco is ex officio Reporter of
the Probate and Municipal Criminal Court of such
city and county.

§ 270. His report, written out in longhand writing,
is prima facie a correct statement of the evidence and
proceedings.

§ 271. He shall receive, as compensation for his

, services, not exceeding ten dollars per day for taking

notes, and not exceeding twenty cents per folio for
transcription, to be paid by the party in whose favor
judgment is rendered, and be taxed up by the Clerk
of the Court as costs against the party against whom
judgment is rendered. In case of failure of a jury
to agree, the°p1aintifi' must pay the Reporter's fees
accrued to that time. In cases where a transcript may
be required by the Court, the expense thereof must
be paid equally by the respective parties to the action,
or either of them, in the discretion of the Court; and
no verdict or judgment can be entered up, except the
Court shall otherwise order, until the Reporter’s fees
are paid, or a sum equivalent thereto deposited with
the Clerk of the Court. In no case shall the transcript
be paid for unless specially ordered by either plaintifff
or defendant, or by the Court; nor shall the Reporter
be required, in any civil case, to transcribe his notes
until the compensation per folio therefore be tendered
to him or deposited in Court for that purpose. In

criminal cases, when the testimony has been taken a

down by order of the Court, the compensation of the
Reporter must be fixed by the Court and paid out of
the Treasury of the county in which the case is tried,
upon the order of the Court.


§ 275.  white male citizen, or white male person, resident of this State, who has bona iide declared
his intention to become a citizen in the manner required by law, of the age of twenty-one years, of good

moral character, and who possesses the necessary qualifications of learning and ability, is entitled to admission as attorney and counselor in all Courts of this

State.

§ 276. Every applicant for admission as attorney
and counselor must produce satisfactory testimonials
of good moral character, and undergo a strict examination, in open Court, as to his qualifications, by the
Justices of the Supreme Court.

§ 277. If, upon examination, he is found qualified,
the Court must admit him as attorney and counselor
in all the Courts of this State, and shall direct an order
to be entered to that effect upon its records, and that
a certificate of such record be given to him by the
Clerk of the Court, which certificate is his license.

§ 278. Everyperson, on his admission, must take an
oath to support the Constitution of the United States
and of this State, and to discharge the duties of attorney and counselor to the best of his knowledge and
ability. A certificate of such oath must be indorsed

on the license.

§ 279. Every white male citizen of the United States,
who has been admitted to practice law in the highest
Court of a sister State, may be admitted to practice in
the Courts of this State, upon the production of his
license and satisfactory evidence of good moral character; but the Court may examine the applicant as to
his qualifications.

§ 280. Each Clerk must keep a roll of attorneys and
counselors admitted to practice by the Court of which
he is Clerk, which roll must be signed by the person
admitted before he receives his license.

§ 281. If any person shall practice law in any Court,
except a J ustice’s or Police Court, Without having
received a license as attorney and counselor, he is guilty
of a contempt of Court. .

§ 282. It is the duty of an attorney and counselor:

1. To support the Constitution and laws of the
United States and of this State;

2. To maintain the respect due to the Courts of justice and judicial officers;

3. To counsel or maintain such actions, proceedings,
or defenses only as appear to him legal or just, except
the defense of a person charged with a public offense;

4. To employ, for the purpose of maintaining the
causes confided to him, such means only as are consistent with truth, and never to seek to mislead the
Judges by an artifice or false statement of fact or law;

5. To maintain inviolate the confidence, and at every
peril to himself‘, to preserve the secrets of his client;

6. To abstain from all offensive personality, and to
advance no fact prejudicial to the honor or reputation
of a party or witness, unless required by the justice of
the cause with which he is charged;

7. Not to encourage either the commencement or
the continuance of an action or proceeding from any
motive of passion or interest;

8. Never to reject, for any consideration personal to
himself, the cause of the defenseless or the oppressed.

§ 283. An attorney and counselor has authority:

1. To bind his client in any of the steps of an action
or proceeding, by his agreement filed with the Clerk,
or entered upon the minutes of the Court, and not
otherwise;

2. To receive money claimed by his client in an
action or proceeding, during the pendency thereof, or

after judgment, unless a revocation of his authority is
filed, and upon the payment thereof, and not otherwise,
to discharge the claim or acknowledge satisfaction of
the judgment. ,

§ 284. The attorney in an action or special proceeding may be changed at any time before judgment or
final determination, as follows:

1. Upon his own consent, filed with the Clerk or
entered upon the minutes;

2. Upon the order of the Court or Judge thereof,
upon the application of the client.

§ 285. When an attorney is changed, as provided in
the last section, written notice of the change and of
the substitution of a new attorney, or of the appearance of the party in person, must be ‘given to the
adverse party; until then, he must recognize the former attorney.

§ 286. When an attorney dies, or is removed or suspended, or ceases to act as such, a party to an action
for whom he was acting as attorney must, before any
further proceedings are had against him, be required
by the adverse party, by written notice, to appoint
another attorney or to appear in person.

§ 287. An attorney and counselor may be removed
or suspended by the Supreme Court, and by the District Courts of the State, for either of the‘ following
causes, arising after his admission to practice:

1. His conviction of a felony, or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, in which case the record of
conviction is conclusive evidence;

2. Willful disobedience or violation of an order of
the Court requiring him to do or forbear an act connected with or in the course of his profession, and any
violation of the oath taken by him or of his duties as
such attorney and counselor;

3. Corruptly and without authority appearing as
attorney for a party to an action or proceeding.

In all cases where an attorney is removed or suspended by a District Court he may appeal to the
Supreme Court, and the judgment or order of the
District Court is subject, on such appeal, to review, as
in civil actions.

§ 288. In case of the conviction of an attorney or
counselor of a felony, or misdemeanor involving moral
turpitude, the Clerk of the Court in which a conviction
is had must, within thirty days thereafter, transmit to
the Supreme Court a certified copy of the record of
conviction.

§ 289. The proceedings to remove or suspend an
attorney and counselor, under the first subdivision of Section 287, must be taken by the Court on the receipt
of a certified copy of the record of conviction. The
proceedings under the second subdivision of Section
287 may be taken by the Court for matters within its
knowledge, or may be taken upon the information of
another.

§ 290. If the proceedings are upon the information
of another, the accusation must be in writing.

§ 291 . The accusation must state the matters charged,
and be verified by the oath of some person, to the
effect that the charges therein contained are true.

§ 292. After receiving the accusation the Court must,
if in its opinion the case require it, make an order requiring the accused to appear and answer the accusa»
tion at a specified time in the same or subsequent
term, and must cause a copy of the order and of the
accusation to be served upon the accused within a prescribed time before the day appointed in the order.

§ 293. The accused must appear at the time appointed in the order, and answer the accusation, unless
for sufficient cause the Court assign another day for
that purpose; if he do not appear, the Court may proceed and determine the accusation in his absence.

§ 294. The accused may answer to the accusation
either by objecting to its sufliciency or denying it.

§ 295. If he object to the sufliciency of the accusation, the objection must be in writing, but need not be
in any speciiic form, it being sufficient if it presents
intelligibly the grounds of the objection. If he deny
the accusation, the denial may be oral and without
oath, and must be entered upon the minutes.

§ 296. If an objection to the sumciency of the accusation is not sustained, the accused must answer forthwith.

§ 297. If the accused plead guilty, or refuse to answer
the accusation, the Court must proceed to judgment of
removal or suspension. If he deny the matters charged,
the Court must, at such time as it may appoint, proceed to try the accusation.

§ 298. The Court may, in its discretion, order a.

reference to a committee to take depositions in the
matter.

§ 299. Upon conviction, in cases arising under the
first subdivision of Section 287, the judgment of the
Court must be that the name of the party be stricken
from the roll of attorneys and counselors of the Court,
and he be precluded from practicing as such attorney
or counselor in all the Courts of this State; and, upon
conviction in cases under the second subdivision of Section 287, the judgment of the Court may be according to the gravity of the offense charged—deprivation

§ 307. There is in this State but one form
of civil actions for the enforcement or protection of
private rights and the redress or prevention of
private wrongs.

§ 308. In such action the party complaining
is known as the plaintifff, and the adverse party as the
defendant.

§ 309. A question of fact not put in issue by
the pleadings may be tried by a jury, upon an order
for the trial, stating distinctly and plainly the question
of fact to. be tried; and such order is the only
authority necessary for a trial.

§ 312. Civil actions can only be commenced Within
the periods prescribed in this Title, after the cause of
action shall have accrued, except Where, in special
cases, a different limitation is prescribed by statute.

§ 315. The people of this State will not sue any
person for or in respect to any real property, or the
issues or profits thereof, by reason of the right or title
of the people to the same, unless:

1. Such right or title shall have accrued within ten
years before any action or other proceeding for the
same is commenced; or,

2. The people, or those from whom they claim, shall
have received the rents and profits of such real property, or of some part thereof, within the space of ten
years.

§ 316. No action can be brought for or in respect
to real property by any person claiming under letters
patent or grants from this State, unless the same might
have been commenced by the people as herein specified, in case such patent had not been issued or grant
made.

§ 317. Wheti letters patent or grants of real property, issued or made by the people of this State, are
declared void by the determination of a competent
Court, rendered upon an allegation of a fraudulent
suggestion, or concealment, or forfeiture, or mistake,
or ignorance of a material fact, or Wrongful detaining,

or defective title, in such case an action for the recovery of the property so conveyed may be brought
either by the people of this State or by any subsequent patentee or grantee of the same property, his
heirs or assigns, within five years after such determination, but not after that period.

§ 318. No action for the recovery of real property,
or for the recovery of the possession thereof, can be
maintained, unless it appear that the plaintifff, his
ancestor, predecessor, or grantor, was seized or possessed of the property in question, Within five years
before the commencement of the action.

§ 319. No cause of action, or defense to an action,
arising out of the title to real property, or to rents or
proiits out of the same, can be effectual, unless it
appear that the person prosecuting the action, or making the defense, or under whose title the action is
prosecuted, or the defense is made, or the ancestor,
predecessor, or grantor of such person was seized or
possessed of the premises in question within five years
before the commencement of the Act in respect to
which such action is prosecuted or defense made.

§ 320. No entry upon real estate is deemed suiiicient
or valid as a claim, unless an action be commenced
thereupon within one year after making such entry,
and within five years from the time when the right to
make it descended or accrued.

§ 321. In every action for the recovery of real property, or the possession thereof, the person establishing
a legal title to the property is presumed to have been
possessed thereof Within the time required by law, and
the occupation of the property by any other person is
deemed to have been under and in subordination to
the legal title, unless it appear that the property has

been held and possessed adversely to such legal title,
for five years before the commencement of the action.

§ 322. When it appears that the occupant, or those
under whom he claims, entered into the possession of
the property under claim of title, exclusive of other
right, founding such claim upon a Written instrument,
as being a conveyance of the property in question, or
upon the decree or judgment of a competent Court,
and that there has been a continued occupation and
possession of the property included in such instrument,
decree, or judgment, or of some part of the property,
under such claim, for five years, the property so included is deemed to have been held adversely, except
that when it consists of a tract divided into lots, the
possession of one lot is not deemed a possession of any
other lot of the same tract.

§ 323. For the purpose of constituting an adverse
possession by any person claiming a title founded upon
a written instrument, or a judgment or decree, land is
deemed to have been possessed and occupied in the
following cases:

1. Where it has been usually cultivated or improved;

2. Where it has been protected by a substantial enclosure;

3. “Where, although not inclosed, it has been used
for the supply of fuel, or of fencing timber for the
purposes of husbandry, or for pasturage, or for the
ordinary use of the occupant;

4. Where a known farm or single lot has been
partly improved, the portion of such farm or lot that
may have been left not cleared, or not inclosed according to the usual course and custom of the adjoining
country, shall be deemed to have been occupied for
the same length of time as the part improved and cultivated.

§ 324. Where it appears that there has been an
actual continued occupation of land, under a claim of title, exclusive of any other right, but not founded
upon a written _instrument, judgment, or decree, the
land so actually occupied, and no other, is deemed to
have been held adversely.

§ 325. For the purpose of constituting an adverse
possession, by a person claiming title not founded upon
a written instrument, judgment, or decree, land is
deemed to have been possessed and occupied in the
following cases only:

1. 'Where it has been protected by a substantial
enclosure; _ 2. Where it has been usually cultivated or improved.

§ 326. When the relation of landlord and tenant has.
existed between any persons, the possession of the
tenant is deemed the possession of the landlord until
the expiration of five years from the termination of
the tenancy, or, Where there has been no written lease,
until the expiration of five years from the time of the
last payment of rent, notwithstanding that such tenant
may have acquired another title, or may have claimed
to hold adversely to his landlord. But such presumptions cannot be made after the periods herein limited.

§ 327. The right of a person to the possession of
real property is not impaired or affected by a descent
cast in consequence of the death of a person in possession of such property.

§ 328. If a person entitled to commence an action
for the recovery of real property, or for the recovery
of the possession thereof, or to make any entry or

defense founded on the title to real property, or to
rents or services out of the same, be at the time such title first descends or accrues, either:

1. Within the age of majority; or,
2. Insane; or,
3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution,

upon conviction of a criminal offense, for a term less
than for life; or,

4. A married woman, and her husband be a necessary party with her in commencing such action or
making such entry or defense;

—The time during which such disability continues is
not deemed ‘any portion of the time in this Chapter
limited for the commencement of such action or the
making of such entry or defense; but such action may
be commenced, or entry or defense made, within the
period of five years after such disability shall cease,
or after the death of the person entitled who shall die
under such disability; but such action shall not be

commenced, or entry or defense made, after that
period.



§ 335. The periods prescribed for the commencement of actions other than for the recovery of rea
property, are as follows: '

§ 336. Within five years:
An action upon a judgment or decree of any Court

of the United States, or of any State within the United
States. v

§ 387. Within four years:
An action upon any contract, obligation, or liability
founded upon an instrument in writing.

§ 1. Where bankers’ certificates of deposit
have heretofore been given to any party since deceased
and not found until alter administration of his or her
estate, an action may be maintained thereon by the
heirs or legal representatives at any time within six

months after such finding.
§ 1. There shall be no limitation upon the
right to maintain an action for the recovery of money
or other property deposited with any bank, banker,
trust company, or savings and loan society.

SEC. 2. All Acts and parts of Acts in confiict herewith, so far as the same are in coniiict, are hereby

repealed.
SEC. 3. This Act shall take effect from and after its

passage.

§ 338. Within three years:
1. An action upon a liability created by statute,

other than a penalty or forfeiture;

2. An action for trespass upon real property;

3. An action for taking, detaining, or injuring any
goods or chattels, including actions for the specific
recovery of personal property;

4. An action for relief on the ground of fraud or
mistake. The cause of action in such case not to be
deemed to have accrued until the discovery, by the

aggrieved party, of the facts constituting the fraud or
mistake.

§ 339. Within two years:

1. An action upon a contract, obligation, or liability,
not founded upon an instrument of Writing;

2. An action against a Sheriff, Coroner, or Consta

ble, upon the liability incurred by the doing of an act
in his official capacity, and in virtue of his office, or

by the omission of an oiiicial duty, including the nonpayment of money collected upon an execution. But
this subdivision does not apply to an action for an
escape; .

3. An action upon a judgment, or upon a contract,
--bligation, or liability for the payment of money or
damages, founded upon an instrument in Writing, executed out of this State;

4. An action to recover damages for the death of
one caused by the wrongful act of another.

§ 340. Within one year:

1. An action upon a statute for a penalty or forfeit
me, Where the action is given to an individual, or to
an individual and the State, except where the statute
imposing it prescribes a different limitation;

2. An action upon a statute for a forfeiture or penalty
to the people of this State; ‘

3. An action for libel, slander, assault, battery, or
false imprisonment;

4. An action against a Sheriff, or other oiiicer, for
the escape of a prisoner, arrested or imprisoned on
civil process;

5. Upon a contract, obligation, or liability for the

payment of money incurred out of this State and not
founded upon a written contract.

§ 341. Within six months: An action against an
officer, or officer de facto, engaged in the collection of
taxes:

1. For money paid to any such officer under protest,
or seized by such officer in his otiicial capacity as a
collector of taxes, and which, it is claimed, ought to
be refunded;

2. To recover any goods, Wares, merchandise, or
other property seized by any such ofdcer in his official
capacity as tax collector, or to recover the price or
value of any goods, wares, merchandise, or other personal property so seized, or for damages for the seizure,
detention, sale of or injury to any goods, wares, merchandise, or other personal property seized, or for

damages done to any person or property in making
any such seizure.

§ 342. Actions on claims against a county, which
have been rejected by the Board of Supervisors, must

be commenced within six months after the first rejection thereof by such Board.

§ 343. An action for relief not hereinbefore provided

for must be commenced within four years after the
cause of action shall have accrued. '

§ 344. In an action brought to recover a balance
due upon a mutual, open, and current account, Where
there have been reciprocal demands between the parties, the cause of action is deemed to have accrued

from the time of the last item‘ proved in the account
on either side.

§ 345. The limitations prescribed in this Chapter
apply to actions brought in the name of the State, or
for the benefit of the State, in the same manner as to
actions by private parties.

§ 346. An action to redeem a mortgage of real property, with or without an account of rents and profits,
may be brought by the mortgagor or those claiming
under him, against the mortgagee in possession, or
those claiming under him, unless he or they have
continuously maintained an adverse possession of the
mortgaged premises for five years after breach of some
condition of the mortgage.

§ 347. If there is more than one such mortgagor,
or more than one person claiming under a mortgagor,
some of whom are not entitled to maintain such an
action under the provisions of this Chapter, any one
of them who is entitled to maintain such an action
may redeem therein a divided or undivided part of
the mortgaged premises, according as his interest may
appear and have an accounting, for a part of the rents
and profits proportionate to his interest in the mortged premises, on payment of a part of the mortgage
money, bearing the same proportion to the whole of
such money as the value of his divided or undivided
interest in the premises bears to the Whole of such
premises.


§ 350. An action is commenced, within the meaning
of this Title, when the complaint is filed.

§ 351. If, when the cause of action accrues against
a person, he is out of the State, the action may be
commenced within the term herein limited, after his
return to the State, and if, after the cause of action
accrues, he departs from the State, the time of his
absence is not part of the time limited for the commencement of the action.

§ 352. If a person entitled to bring an action, mentioned in Chapter III of this Title, be, at the time the
cause of action accrued, either:

1. Within the age of majority; or,

2. Insane; or,

3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution
under the sentence of a criminal Court for a term less
than for life; or, _

4. A married woman, and her husband be a necessary party with her in commencing such action:
—The time of such disability is not a part of the time
limited for the commencement of the action.

§ 353. If a person entitled to bring an action die
before the expiration of the time limited for the commencement thereof, and the cause of action survive,
an action may be commenced by his representatives,
after the expiration of that time, and within six months

from his death. If a person against whom an action
may be brought die before the expiration of the time
limited for the commencement thereof, and the cause
of action survive, an action may be commenced
against his representatives, after the expiration of that
time, and Within one year after the issuing of letters
testamentary or of administration.

§ 354. “Then a person is an alien subject, or citizen
of a country at war with the United States, the time
of the continuance of the War is not part of the period
limited for the commencement of the action.

§ 355. If an action is commenced within the time
prescribed therefore, and a judgment therein for the
plaintifff be reversed on appeal, the plaintifff, or if he

, die and the cause of action survive, his representatives,

may commence a new action within one year after the
reversal.

§ 356. VVhen the commencement of an action is
stayed by injunction or statutory prohibition, the time
of the continuance of the injunction or prohibition is
not part of the time limited for the commencement of
the action.

§ 357. No person can avail himself of a disability,
unless it existed when his right of action accrued.

§ 358. \Vhen two or more disabilities coexist at the
time the right of action accrues, the limitation does
not attach until they are removed.

§ 359. This title does 11ot affect actions against
Directors or stockholders of a corporation, to recover a
penalty or forfeiture imposed, or to enforce a liability
created by law; but such actions must be brought
Within three years after the discovery by the aggrieved
party of the facts upon which the penalty or forfeiture
attached, or the liability was created.

§ 360. No acknowledgment or promise is suliicient
evidence of a new or continuing contract, by which to
take the case out of the operation of this Title, unless
the same is contained in some writing, signed by the
party to be charged thereby.

§ 361. When a cause of action has arisen in another
State, or in a foreign country, and by the laws thereof
an action thereon cannot there be maintained against
a person by reason of the lapse of time, an action
thereon shall not be maintained against him in this
State, except in favor of one who has been a citizen
of this State, and who has held the cause of action
from the time it accrued.

§ 362. This Title does not extend to actions already
commenced, nor to cases where the time prescribed in
any existing statute for acquiring a right or barring a
remedy has fully run, but the laws now in force are
applicable to such actions and cases, and are repealed
subject to the provisions‘of this section.

§ 363. The word “ action ” as used in this Title is to
be construed, whenever it is necessary so to do, as including a special proceeding of a civil nature.


§ 367. Every action must be prosecuted in

the name of the real party in interest, except as provided in Section 369.

§ 368. In the case of an assignment of a
thing in action, the action by the assignee is without
prejudice to any set-off, or other defense existing at
the time of, or before, notice of the assignment; but
this section does not apply to a negotiable promissory
note or bill of exchange, transferred in good faith, and
upon good consideration, before maturity.

§ 369. An executor or administrator, or trustee of an express trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute, may sue without joining with him the
persons for whose benefit the action is prosecuted. A
person with Whom, or in whose name, a contract is
made for the benefit of another, is a trustee of an
express trust, within the meaning of this section.

§ 370. When a married woman is a party,
her husband must be joined with her, except:

1. When the action concerns her separate property,
or her right or claim to the homestead property, she

may sue alone;
2. \Vhen the action is between herself and her husband, she may sue or be sued alone;
3. When she is living separate and apart from her

husband, she may sue or be sued alone.

§ 371. If a husband and wife be sued together,
the wife may defend for her own right, and if the husband neglect to defend, she may defend for his right

also.

§ 372. \Vhen an infant is a party he must
appear by his general guardian, if he has one; and
if not, by a guardian who may be appointed by the

.Court in which the action is prosecuted, or by a Judge

thereof, or a County Judge.

§ 373. \Vhen a guardian is appointed by the Court,
he must be appointed as follows:

1. When the infant is plaintili: upon the application of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years;
or if under that age, upon the application of a relative
or friend of the infant;

2. \-Vhen the infant is defendant: upon the application of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen
years and apply within ten days after the service of
the summons; if he be under the age of fourteen, or
neglect so to apply, then upon the application of any
other party to the action, or of a relative or friend of
the infant.

§ 374. An unmarried female may prosecute, as
plaintifff, an action for her own seduction, and may

recover therein such damages, pecuniary or exemplary,

as are assessed in her favor.

§ 375. A father, or, in case of his death or desertion
of his family, the mother, may prosecute as plaintiE
for the seduction of the daughter, and the guardian
for the seduction of the ward, though the daughter or
ward be not living with or in the service of the plaintifff at the time of the seduction or afterwards, and
there be no loss of service.

§ 376. A father, or, in case of his death or
desertion of his family, the mother, may maintain an
action for the injury or death of a-child, and a guardian for the injury or death of his Ward.

§ 377. When the death of a person is caused by the
wrongful act or neglect of another, his heirs or personal representatives may maintain an action for
damages against the person causing the death; or
when the death of a person is caused by an injury
received in falling through any opening or defective
place in any sidewalk, street, alley, square, or wharf,
his heirs or personal representatives may maintain an
action for damages against the person whose duty it
was, at the time of the injury, to have kept in repair
such sidewalk or other place. In every such action
the jury may give such damages, pecuniary or exemplary, as, under all the circumstances of the case, may
to them seem just.

§ 378. All persons having an interest in the
subjectgof the action, and in obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined as plaintifffs, except when
otherwise provided in this Title.

§ 379. Any person may be made a defendant who has or claims an interest in the controversy
adverse to the plaintifff, or who is a necessary party to
a complete determination or settlement of the question involved therein. And in an action to determine
the title or right of possession to real property which,
at the time of the commencement of the action, is in
the possession of a tenant, the landlord may be joined

as a party defendant.

§ 380. In an action brought by a person out of possession of real property to determine an adverse claim
of an interest or estate therein, the person making
such adverse claim and all persons in possession must
be joined as defendants.

§ 381. Persons claiming an interest in lands under
a common source of title may unite as plaintifffs in an
action against any person claiming an adverse interest
therein, for the purpose of determining such adverse
claim, or of establishing such common source of title,
or of declaring the same to be held in trust, or for
removing a cloud thereon.

§ 382. Of the parties to the action, those
who are united in interest must be joined as plaintifffs or defendants; butif the consent of any one who
should have been joined as plaintifff cannot be obtained, he may be made a defendant, the reason
thereof being stated in the complaint; and when the
question is one of a common or general interest, of
many persons, or when the parties are numerous, and
it is impracticable to bring them all before the Court,
one or more may sue or defend for the benefit of all.

§ 383. Persons severally liable upon the
same obligation or instrument, including the parties
to bills of exchange and promissory notes, and sureties
on the same or separate instruments, may all or any
of them be included in the same action, at the option

of the plaintifff.

§ 384. All persons holding as tenants in common,
joint tenants, or coparceners, or any number less than
all, may jointly or severally commence or defend any
civil action or proceeding for the enforcement or protection of the rights of such party.

§ 385. An action or proceeding does not
abate by the death, marriage, or other disability of a
party, or by the transfer of any interest therein, if the
cause of action survive or continue. In case of the
death, marriage, or other disability of a party, the
Court, on motion, may allow the action or proceeding
to be continued by or against his representative or
successor in interest. In case of any other transfer
of interest, the action or proceeding may be continued
in the name of the original party, or the Court may
allow the person to whom the transfer is made to be
substituted in the action or proceeding.

§ 386. A defendant against whom an action
is pending upon a contract, or for specific personal
property, may, at any time before answer, upon affidavit that a person not a party to the action makes
against him, and without any collusion with him, a
demand upon the same contract, or for the same property, upon notice to such person and the adverse
party, apply to the Court for an order to substitute
such person in his place, and discharge him from liability to either party, on his depositing in Court the
amount claimed on the contract, or delivering the
property, or its value, to such person as the Court may

direct; and the Court may, in its discretion, make the
order. '

§ 387. Any person may, before
the trial, intervene in an action or proceeding, who
has an interest in the matter in litigation, in the success of either of the parties, or an interest against

both. An intervention takes place when a third person is permitted to become a party to an action or
proceeding between other persons, either by joining
the plaintifff in claiming what is sought by the complaint, or by uniting with the defendant in resisting
the claims of the plaintifff, or by demanding anything
adversely to both the plaintifff and the defendant; and
is made by complaint, setting forth the grounds upon
which the intervention rests, filed by leave of the

Court and served upon the parties to the action or proceeding, who may answer it as if it were an original

complaint.

§ 388. When two or more persons, associated in any business, transact such business under a
common name, whether it comprises the names of
such persons or not, the associates may be sued by
such common name, the summons in such cases being
served on one or more of the associates; and the judgment in the action shall bind the joint prope'rty of all
the associates, in the same manner as if all had been
named defendants and had been sued upon their joint
liability.

§ 389. The Court may determine any controversy between parties before it, when it can be done
without prejudice to the rights of others, or by saving
their rights; but when a complete determination of
the controversy cannot be had without the presence of
other parties, the Court must then order them to be
brought in. And when, in an action for the recovery
of real or personal property, a person not a party to
the action, but having an interest in the subject
thereof, makes application to the Court to be made a
party, it may order him to be brought in, by the
proper amendment.


§ 392. Actions for the following causes
must be tried in the county in which the subject of
the action, or some part thereof, is situated, subject to
the power of the Court to change the place of trial,
as provided in this Code:

1. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate or interest therein, or for the determination, in
any form, of such right or interest, and for injuries to
real property;

2. For the partition of real property;

3. For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property.

Where the real property is situated partly in one
county and partly in another, the plaintifff may select
either of the counties, and the county so selected is
the proper county for the trial of such action.

§ 393. Actions for the following causes must
be tried in the county where the cause, or some part
thereof‘, arose, subject to the like power of the Court
to change the place of trial:

1. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by statute; except, that when it is imposed for
an offense committed on a lake, river, or other stream

of water, situated in two or more counties, the action
may be brought in any county bordering on such lake,
river, or stream, and opposite to the place where the
offense was committed;

2. Against a public officer, or person especially
appointed to execute his duties, for an act done by him
in virtue of his office; or against. a person who, by his
command or in his aid, does anything touching the
duties of such oiiicer. C

§ 394. Actions against counties may be commenced
and tried in any county in the Judicial District in
which such county is situated, unless such actions are
between counties, in which case they may be commenced and tried in any county not a party thereto.

§ 395. In all other cases the action must
be tried in the county in which the defendants, or

'some of them, reside at the commencement of the

action; or, if none of the defendants reside in the
State, or, if residing in this State, the county in which
they reside is unknown to the plaintifff, the same may
be tried in any county which the plaintifff may designate in his complaint; and if the defendant is about
to depart from the State, such action may be tried in
any county where either of the parties reside or service
is had; subject, however, to the power of the Court to
change the place of trial as provided in this Code.

§ 396. If the county in which the action is commeneed is not the proper county for the trial thereof,
the action may, notwithstanding, be tried therein,
unless the defendant, at the time he appears and
answers or demurs, files an affidavit of merits, and
demands, in writing, that the trial be had in the proper

county.

§ 397. The Court may, on motion, change
the place of trial in the following cases:

1. When the county designated in the complaint is
not the proper county;

2. When there is reason to believe that an impartial trial cannot be had therein;

3. When the convenience of witnesses and the ends
of justice would be promoted by the change;

4. When from any cause the Judge is disqualified
from acting.

§ 398. If an action or proceeding is commenced or
pending in a Court, and the Judge or Justice thereof
is disqualified from acting as such, or if for any cause
the Court orders the place of trial to be changed, it
must be transferred for trial to a Court the parties may
agree upon by stipulation in Writing, or made in open
Court and entered in the minutes; or, if they do not
so agree, then to the nearest Court where the like
objection or cause for making the order does not exist,
as follows:

1. If in the District Court, to another District Court;

2. If in a County Court, to some other County Court;

3. If in the Probate Court, to some other Probate
Court;

4. If in a J ustice’s Court, to another J ustice’s Court
in the same county.

§ 399. When an order is made transferring an action
or proceeding for trial, the Clerk of the Court, or
Justice of the Peace, must transmit the pleadings and
papers therein to the Clerk or Justice of the Court to
which it is transferred. The costs and fees thereof,
and of iiling the papers anew, must be paid by the
party at whose instance the order was made. The
Court to which an action or proceeding is transferred
has and exercises over the same the like jurisdiction
as if it had been originally commenced therein.

§ 400. When an action or proceeding affecting the title to or possession of real estate has been brought in
or transferred to any Court of a county other than the
county in which the real estate, or some portion of it,
is situated, the Clerk of such Court must, after final
judgment therein, certify, under his seal of oilice, and
transmit to the corresponding Court of the county in
which the real estate affected by the action is situated, a copy of the judgment. The Clerk receiving
such copy must file, docket, and record the judgment
in the records of the Court, briefly designating it use
judgment transferred from Court (naming the
proper Court).



§ 405. Civil actions in the Courts of this
State are commenced by filing a complaint and the
issuing of summons thereon.

§ 406. The Clerk must indorse on the complaint the day, month, and year that it is filed, ‘and at

any time within one year thereafter the plaintifff may
have summons issued. But at any time after the complaint is filed the defendant may, in writing, or by
appearing and answering or demurring, waive the
issuing of summons.

§ 407. The summons must be
directed to the defendant, signed by the Clerk, and
issued under the seal of the Court, and must contain:

1. The names of the parties to the action, the Court
in which it is brought, and the county in which the
complaint is filed;

2. The cause and general nature of the action;

3. A direction that the defendant appear and answer
the complaint within ten days, if the summons is
served within the county in which the action is
brought; within twenty days, if served out of the
county but in the district in which the action is
brought, and within forty days if served elsewhere;

4. In an action arising on contract, for the recovery
of money or damages only, a notice that unless the
defendant so appears and answers the plaintifff will
take judgment for the sum demanded in the complaint (stating it);

5. In other actions, a notice that unless defendant so
appears and answers the plaintifff will apply to the
Court for the relief demanded in the complaint.

The name of the plaintifff’ s attorney must be indorsed on the summons.

§ 408. If the summons is returned without being
served on any or all of the defendants, the Clerk, upon
the demand of the plaintifff, may issue an alias summons in the same form as the original.

§ 409. In an action affecting real property,
the plaintifff, at the time of filing the complaint, and
the defendant, at the time of filing his answer, when

afiirmative relief is claimed in such answer, or at any
time afterwards, may file with the Recorder of the
county in which the property is situated, a notice of
the pendency of the action, containing the names of
the parties to, and the object of, the action or defense,
and a description of the property in that county affected thereby. From the time of filing, only, is the
pendency of the action constructive notice to a purchaser or encumbrancer of the property aifected

thereby.

§ 27. In an action affecting the title to real
property, or the right to the possession of real property,
the plaintifff, at the time of filing his complaint, and
the defendant, at the time of filing his answer, when
amrmative relief is claimed in such answer, or at any
time afterwards, may record with the County Recorder
of the county in which the property is situated, a notice
of the pendency of the action, containing the names of
the parties to and the object of the action, and a
description of the property in that county affected
thereby; and the defendant may also, in such notice,
state the nature and extent of the relief claimed in the
answer. From the time of filing for record only shall
the pendency of the action be constructive notice tea
purchaser or encumbrancer of the property affected
thereby.

§ 410. The summons may be served by the
Sheriif of the county where the defendant is found, or
by any other person not a party to the action. A copy
of the complaint must be served with the summons,
unless there is more than one defendant residing in
the same county, in Which case a copy of the complaint
must be served upon one of them. When the summons is served by the Sheriff it must be returned,
with his certificate of its service, and of the service
of a copy of the complaint, to the office of the Clerk
from which it issued. When it is served by any other
person it must be returned to the same place, with an
affidavit of such person of its service, and of the service of a copy of the complaint.

§ 411. The summons must be served by
delivering a copy thereof, as follows:

1. If the suit is against a corporation: to the President, or other head of the corporation, Secretary,
Cashier, or managing agent thereof ;

2. If the suit is against a foreign corporation, or a
non-resident joint stock company or association doing
business and having a managing or business agent,
Cashier, or Secretary Within this State: to such agent,
Cashier, or Secretary;

3. If against a minor under the age of fourteen
years: to such minor personally, and also to his father,
mother, or guardian; or if there be none within the
State, then to any person having the care or control of
such minor, or with Whom he resides, or in Whose
service he is employed;

4. If against a person judicially declared to be of
unsound mind or incapable of conducting his own
affairs, and for whom a guardian has been appointed:
to such guardian;

5. If against a county, city, or town: to the President of the Board of Supervisors, President of the
Council or Trustees, or other head of the legislative
department thereof; 6. In all other cases: to the defendant personally.

§ 412. Where the person on whom the service is to be made resides out of the State, or has
departed from the State, or cannot, after due diligence,
be found Within the State, or conceals himself to avoid

the service of summons, or is a foreign corporation
having no managing or business agent, Cashier, or
Secretary within the State, and the fact appears by
affidavit to the satisfaction of the Court, or a Judge
thereof, or a County Judge, and it also appears by
such affidavit, or by the verified complaint on file, that
a cause of action exists against the defendant in respect
to whom the service is to be made, or that he is a
necessary or proper party to the action, such Court or
Judge may make an order that the service be made
by the publication of the summons.

§ 413. The order must direct the publication to be made in a newspaper to be designated, as
most likely to give notice to the person to be served,
and for such length of time as may be deemed reasonable, at least once a week; but publication against a
defendant residing out of the State, or absent therefrom, must not be less than two months. In case of
publication, where the residence of a non-resident or
absent defendant is known, the Court or Judge must
direct a copy of the summons and complaint to be
forthwith deposited in the Post Oiiice, directed to the
person to be served, at his place of residence. When
publication is ordered, personal service of a copy of
the summons and complaint, out of the State, is equivalent to publication and deposit in the Post Ofiice. In
either case, the service of the summons is complete at
the expiration of the time prescribed by the order for
publication. In actions upon contracts for the direct
payment of money, the Court in. its discretion may,
instead of ordering publication, or may after publication, appoint an attorney to appear for the non-resident,
absent, or concealed defendant, and conduct the proceedings on his part.

§ 414. When the action is against two or
more defendants jointly or severally liable on a contract, and the summons is served on one or more, but
not on all of them, the plaintifff may proceed against
the defendants served in the same manner as if they
were the only defendants.

§ 415. Proof of the service of summons
and complaint must be as follows:

1. If served by the Sheriff, his certificate thereof;

2. If by any other person, his affidavit thereof; or,

3. In case of publication, the affidavit of the printer,
or his foreman, or principal clerk, showing the same;
and an affidavit of a deposit of a copy of the summons
in the Post Oliice, if the same has been deposited; or,

4. The Written admission of the defendant.

In case of service otherwise than by publication,
the certificate or affidavit must state the time and
place of service.

§ 416. From the time of the service of the
summons and copy of complaint in a civil action, the
Court is deemed to have acquired jurisdiction, and to
have control of all the subsequent proceedings. The
voluntary appearance of a defendant is equivalent to
personal service of the summons upon him. .

§ 420. The pleadings are the formal allegations by the parties of their respective claims and
defenses, for the judgment of the Court.

§ 421. The forms of pleading in civil actions,
and the rules by which the sufficiency of the pleadings
is to be determined, are those prescribed in this Code.

§ 422. The only pleadings allowed on the
part of the plaintifff are:

1. The complaint; '

2. The demurrer to the answer.

And on the part of the defendant:

1. The demurrer to the complaint;

2. The answer.

§ 425. The first pleading on the part of the plaintifff
is the complaint.

§ 426. The complaint must contain:

1. The title of the action, the name of the Court and
county in which the action is brought, and the names
of the parties to the action;

2. A statement of the facts constituting the cause of
action, in ordinary and concise language;

3. A demand of the relief which the plaintifff claims.
If the recovery of money or damages be demanded, the
amount thereof must be stated.

§ 427. The plaintifff may unite several causes of action in the same complaint, Where they all arise
out of:

1. Contracts, express or implied; A

2. Claims to recover specific real property, with or
without damages for the Withholding thereof, or for
Waste committed thereon, and the rents and proiits of
the same;

3. Claims to recover specific personal property, With,

or Without damages for the Withholding thereof;

4. Claims against a trustee by virtue of a contract,
or by operation of law;

5. Injuries to character,

6. Injuries to person;

7. Injuries to property.

The causes of action so united must all belong to
one only of these classes, and must affect all the parties to the action, and not require different places of

trial, and must be separately stated; but an action for
malicious arrest and prosecution, or either of them, may

be united with an action for either an injury to character or to the person.

§ 430. The defendant may demur to the
complaint within the time required in the summons

to answer, when it appears upon the face thereof,
either: '

1. That the Court has no jurisdiction of_ the person

i of the defendant or the subject of the action; or,

2. That the plaintifff has not legal capacity to sue;
or,

3. That there is another action pending between the
same parties for the same cause; or,

4. That there is a defect or misjoinder of parties
plaintifff or defendant; or,

5. That several causes of action have been improperly united; or, ~

6. That the complaint does not state facts sufiicient
to constitute a cause of action; or,

7; That the complaint is ambiguous, unintelligible,
or uncertain.

§ 431. The demurrer must distinctly
specify the grounds upon which any of the objections
to the complaint are taken. Unless it do so it may be
disregarded. It may be taken to the whole complaint
or to any of the causes of action stated therein, or the
defendant may demur and answer at the same time.

§ 432. If the complaint is amended, a copy
of the amendments must be filed, or the Court may,
in its discretion, require the complaint, as amended,
to be filed, and a copy of the amendments to be served
upon the defendants affected thereby. The defendant
must answer the complaint, as amended, within such
time as the Court may direct, and judgment by default
may be entered upon failure to answer, as in other
cases.

§ 433. When any of the matters enumerated
in Section 430 do not appear upon the face of the complaint, the objection may be taken by answer.

§ 434. If no objection be taken, either by
demurrer or answer, the defendant must be deemed to
have waivedithe same, excepting only the objection to
the jurisdiction of the Court, and the objection that
the complaint does not state facts sufiicient to constitute a cause of action. .

§ 437. The answer of the defendant shall contain:

1. If the complaint be verified, a specific denial to
each allegation of the complaint controverted by the
defendant, or a denial thereof according to his information and belief. If the complaint be not verified,
then a general denial to each of said allegations; but
a general denial only puts in issue the material allege»
tions of the complaint; I

2. A statement of any new matter in avoidance, or
constituting a defense or counterclaim.

§ 438. The counterclaim mentioned in the
last section must be one existing in favor of a defendant and against a plaintifff, between whom a several judgment might be had in the action, and arising
out of one of the following causes of action:

1. A cause of action arising out of the transaction
set forth in the complaint as the foundation of the
plaintiii"s claim, or,connected with the subject of the
action;

2. In an action arising upon contract; any other
cause of action arising also upon contract and existing
at the commencement of the action.

§ 439. If the defendant omit to set up a counter
claim in the cases mentioned in the first subdivision
of the last section, neither he nor his assignee can
afterwards maintain an action against the plaintifff
therefore. '

§ 440. When cross demands have existed
between persons, under such circumstances that, if one

had brought an action against the other, a counter
claim could have been set up, neither can be deprived
of the benefit thereof by the assignment or death of
the other; but the two demands must be deemed compensated so far as they equal each other. But a claim
existing in favor of the maker of a negotiable instrument and against a holder after maturity, intermediate
between the payee and the last holder, is not a cross
demand.

§ 441. The defendant may set ,forth by
answer as many defenses and counterclaims as he may
have. They must be separately stated, and the several defenses must refer to the causes of action which
they are intended to answer, in a manner by which
they may be intelligibly distinguished. The defendant may also answer one or more of the several causes
of action stated in the complaint and demur to the
residue. ‘

§ 443. The plaintifff may, within the same
length of time after service of the, answer as the defendant is allowed to answer after service of summons,

demur to the answer of the defendant.

§ 444. The demurrer may be taken upon one or
more of the following grounds:

1. ‘That several causes of counterclaim have been
improperly joined;

2. That the answer does not state facts sufiicient to
constitute a defense or counterclaim;

3. That the answer is ambiguous, unintelligible, or
uncertain.

§ 446. Every pleading must be subscribed by the party or his attorney; and when the

complaint is verified, or when the State, or any officeri

of the State, in his ofiicial capacity, is plaintifff, the
answer must be verified, unless an admission of the
truth of the complaint might subject the party to a
criminal prosecution, or unless an oilicer of the State,
in his ofiicial capacity, is defendant. In all cases of a
verification of a pleading, the affidavit of the party
must state that the same is true of his own knowledge,
except as to the matters which are therein stated on

' his information or belief, and as to those matters,

that he believes it to be true; and where a pleading is
verified, it must be by the affidavit of a party, unless
the parties are absent from the county where the
attorney resides, or from some cause unable to verify
it, or the facts are Within the knowledge of his attorney

or other person verifying the same. When the plead-_

ing is verified by the attorney, or any other person
except one of the parties, he must set forth in the anidavit the reasons why it is not made by one of the
parties. When a corporation is a party, the verification may be made by any officer thereof.

§ 447. When an action is brought upon a
Written instrument, and the complaint contains a copy

of such instrument, or a copy is annexed thereto, the

genuineness and due execution of such instrument are
deemed admitted, unless the answer denying the same

be verified.

§ 448. When the defense to an action is
founded on a Written instrument, and a copy thereof is
contained in the answer, or is annexed thereto, the

geuuineness and due execution of such instrument are
deemed admitted, unless the plaintifff file with the
Clerk, live days before the commencement of the
term at which the action is to be tried, an affidavit

denying the same.

§ 449. But the execution of the instruments
mentioned in the two preceding sections, is not deemed
admitted by a failure to deny the same under oath, if
the party desiring to controvert the same, is, upon
demand, refused an inspection of the original.

§ 452. In the construction of a pleading, for
the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations
must be liberally construed, with a view to substantial
justice between the parties. '

§ 453. Sham and irrelevant answers,
and irrelevant and redundant matter inserted in a
pleading, may be stricken out, upon such terms as the
Court may, in its discretion, impose.

§ 454. It is not necessary for a party to set
forth in a pleading the items of an account therein

alleged, but he must deliver to the adverse party,‘

within five days after a demand thereof in writing, a
copy of the account, or be precluded from giving evidence thereof. The Court, or a Judge thereof, or a
County Judge, may order a further account, when the

one delivered is too general, or is defective in any particular.

§ 455. In an action for the recovery of real
property, it must be described in the complaint with
such certainty as to enable an officer, upon execution,
to identify it.

§ 456. In pleading a judgment or other
determination of a Court, officer, or Board, it is not
necessary to state the facts conferring jurisdiction, but
such judgment or determination may be stated to have
been duly given or made. If such allegation be controverted, the party pleading must establish on the
trial the facts conferring jurisdiction.

§ 457. In pleading the performance of conditions precedent in a contract, it is not necessary to
state the facts showing such performance, but it may
be stated generally that the party duly performed all
the conditions on his part, and if such allegation be
controverted, the party pleading must establish, on the
trial, the facts showing such performance.

§ 458. In pleading the Statute of Limitations it is
not necessary to state the facts showing the defense,
but it may be stated generally that the cause of action
is barred by the provisions of Section (giving the
number of. the section and subdivision thereof, if it is
so divided, relied upon) of THE CODE or CIVIL PaoCEDURE; and if such allegation be controverted, the
party pleading must establish, on the trial, the facts
showing that the cause of action is so barred.

§ 459. In pleading. a private statute, or a
right derived therefrom, it is suiiicient to refer to such

‘ statute by its title and the day of its passage.

§ 460. In an action for libel or slander it is
not necessary to state in the complaint any extrinsic
facts for the purpose of showing the application to the
plaintifff of the defamatory matter out of which the
cause of action arose; but it is sufiicient to state, generally, that the same was published or spoken concerning the plaintifff; and if such allegation be controverted, the plaintifff must establish on the trial that it
was so published or spoken.

§ 461. In the actions mentioned in the last section the defendant may, in his answer, allege both
the truth of the matter charged as defamatory, and
any mitigating circumstances, to reduce the amount

‘of damages; and Whether he prove the justification or

not, he may give in evidence the mitigating circumstances.

§ 462. Every material allegation of the
complaint, not controverted by the answer, must, for
the purposes of the action, be taken as true; the statement of any new matter in the answer, in avoidance
or constituting a defense or counterclaim, must, on
the trial, be deemed controverted by the opposite

party.

§ 463. A material allegation in a pleading
is one essential to the claim or defense, and which
could not be stricken from the pleading Without leaving it insufficient.

§ 464. The plaintifff and defendant, respectively, may be allowed, on motion, to make a supplemental complaint or answer, alleging facts material
to the case occurring after the former complaint or
answer.

§ 465. All pleadings subsequent to the complaint
must‘ he filed with the Clerk and served upon the adverse party or his attorney.

§ 469. No variance between the allegation
in a pleading and the proof is to be deemed material,
unless it have ac"tually misled the adverse party to his
prejudice, in maintaining his action or defense upon
the merits. Wheiiever it is alleged that a party has
been so misled, that fact must be proved to the satisfaction of the Court, and thereupon the Court may
order the pleading to be amended, upon such terms as
may be just.

§ 470. Where the variance is not material, as provided in the last section, the Court may direct the
fact to- be found according to the evidence, or may
order an immediate amendment, without costs.

§ 471. Where, however, the allegation of the claim
or defense to which the proof is directed, is unproved,
not in some particular or particulars only, but in its
general scope and meaning, it is not to be deemed a
case of variance, within the last two sections, but a
failure of proof.

§ 472. Any pleading may be amended once
by the party of -course, and without costs, at any time
before answer or demurrer filed, or after demurrer and
before the trial of the issue of law thereon, by filing
the same as amended and serving a copy on the adverse
party, who may have ten days thereafter in which to
answer or demur to the amended pleading. A demurrer is not waived by filing an answer at the same time;
and when the demurrer to a complaint is overruled
and there is no answer filed, the Court must allow an
answer to be filed. If ‘a demurrer to the answer is
overruled, the facts alleged in the answer must be considered as denied, to the extent mentioned in Section 462.

§ 473. The Court may, in furtherance of
justice, and on such terms as may be proper, amend
any pleading or proceedings, by.adding or striking out
the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in
the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect;
and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for ahswer
or demurrer. The Court may likewise, upon affidavit
showing good cause therefore, after notice to the adverse
party, allow, upon such terms as may be just, a11 amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may, upon like terms, allow an answer to be

made after the time limited by this Code; and may,
upon such terms as may be just, and upon payment
of costs, relieve a party, or his legal representatives,
from a judgment, order, or other proceeding taken
against him through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect; and when, for any cause
satisfactory to the Court, or the Judge at chambers,
the party aggrieved has been unable to apply for the
relief sought during the term at. which such judgment,
order, or proceeding complained of was taken, the
Court, or the Judge at chambers, in vacation, may
grant the relief upon application made within a reasonable time, not exceeding five months after the adjournment of the term. When, from any cause, the summons and a copy of the complaint in an action have
not been personally served on the defendant, the Court
may allow, on such terms as may be just, such defendant, or his legal representative, at any time within six
months after the rendition of any judgment in such
action, to answer to the merits _of the original action.

§ 474. When the plaintifff is ignorant of the
name of a defendant, he must state that fact in the
complaint, and such defendant may be designated in
any pleading or proceeding by any name, and when
his true name is discovered, the pleading or proceeding must be amended accordingly.

§ 475. The Court must, in every stage of
an action, disregard any error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings which does not affect the substantial rights of the parties, and no judgment shall be
reversed or affected by reason of such error or defect.


§ 478. No person can be arrested in a civil
action, except as prescribed in this Code.

§ 479. The defendant may be arrested as
hereinafter prescribed, in the following cases:

1. In an action for the recovery of money or damages on a cause of action arising upon contract, express

or implied, when the defendant is about to depart from,

the State, with intent to defraud his creditors;

2. In an action for a fine or penalty, or for money or
property embezzled, or fraudulently misapplied, or
converted to his own use, by a public oiiicer; or an
officer of a corporation, or an attorney, factor, broker,
agent, or clerk, in the course of his employment as
such; or by any other person in a fiduciary capacity,
or for fraudulent misconduct or neglect in office, or in
a professional employment; or for a willful violation of
duty;

3. In an action to recover the possession of personal
property, unjustly detained, when the property, or any
part thereof, has been fraudulently concealed, removed,
or disposed of, so that it cannot be found, or taken by
the Sheriff ; .

4. “Then the defendant has been guilty of a fraud
in contracting the debt, or incurring the obligation for
which the action is brought; or in concealing or disposing of the property, for the taking, detention, or
conversion of which the action is brought;

5. VVhen the defendant has removed or disposed of
his property, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud

his creditors.

§ 480. An order for the arrest of the defendant must be obtained from a Judge of the Court in
which the action is brought, or from a County Judge.

§ 481. The order may be made whenever it
appears to the Judge, by the affidavit of the plaintifff
or some other person, that a sufficient cause of action
exists, and that the case is one of those mentioned in Section 479. The affidavit must be either positive or
upon information and belief; and when upon information and belief, it must state the facts upon which the
information and belief are founded. If an order of
arrest be made, the affidavit must be filed with the
Clerk of the county.

§ 482. Before making the order, the Judge
must require a written undertaking on the part of the
plaintifff, with sureties, to the effect that if the defendant recover judgment the plaintifff will pay all
costs and charges that may be awarded to the defendant,'and all damages which he may sustain by reason
of the arrest, not exceeding the sum specified in the
undertaking, which must be at least five hundred dollars. The undertaking must be filed with the Clerk
of the Court.

§ 483. The order may be made at the time
of the issuing of the summons, or any time afterwards
before judgment. It must require the Sheriff of the
county where the defendant may be found, forthwith
to arrest hlm and hold him to bail in a specified sum,
and to return the order at a time therein mentioned,
to the Clerk of the Court in which the action is pending.

§ 484. The order of arrest, with a copy of
the affidavit upon which it is made, must be delivered
to the Slieriff, who, upon arresting the defendant, must
deliver to him a copy of the affidavit, and also, if
desired, a copy of the order of arrest.

§ 485. The Sheriff must execute the order
by arresting the defendant and keeping him in custody until discharged by law.

§ 486. The defendant, at any time before
execution, must be discharged from the arrest, either

upon giving bail or upon depositing the amount mentioned in the order of arrest.

§ 487. The defendant may give bail by
causing a written undertaking to be executed by two
or more sufficient snreties, to the effect that they are
bound in the amount mentioned in the order of arrest,
that the defendant will at all times render himself
amenable to the process of the Court, during the pendency of the action, and to such as may be issued to
enforce the judgment therein, or that they will pay ‘.3

the plaintifff the amount of any judgment which may
be recovered in the action.

§ 488. At any time before judgment, or
within ten days thereafter, the bail may surrender the
defendant in their exoneration; or he may surrender

himself‘ to the Sheriff of the county where he was
arrested.

§ 489. For the purpose of surrendering the
defendant, the bail, at any time or place before they

are finally charged,‘ may themselves arrest, or, by a
written authority indorsed on a certified copy of the
undertaking, may empower the Sheriff to do so. Upon
the arrest of defendant by the Sheriff, or upon his
delivery to the Sheriff by the bail, or upon his own
surrender, the bail are exonerated, if such arrest,
delivery, or surrender take place before the expiration
of ten days after judgment; but if such arrest., delivery, or surrender be not made within ten days after
judgment, the bail are finally charged on their undertaking, and bound to pay the amount of the judgment
Within ten days thereafter.

§ 490. If the bail neglect or refuse to pay
the judgment within ten days after they are finally
charged, an action may be commenced against such
bail for the amount of the original judgment.

§ 491. The bail are exonerated by the death
of the defendant or his imprisonment in a State Prison,
or by his legal discharge from the obligation to render himself amenable to the process.

§ 492. Within the time limited for that
purpose, the Sheriff must file the order of arrest in
the oilice of the Clerk of the Court in Which the
action is pending, with his return indorsed thereon,
together with a copy of the undertaking of the bail.
The original undertaking he must retain in his possession until filed, as herein provided. The plaintifff,
Within ten days thereafter, may serve upon the Sheriff a notice that he does not accept the bail, or he ‘is
deemed to have accepted them, and the Sheritf is exonerated from liability. If no notice be servedwithin
ten days, the original undertaking must be filed with

the Clerk of the Court.

§ 493. Within five days after the receipt of
notice, the Sheriff or defendant may give to the plaintifff, or his attorney, notice of the justincation of the
same, or other bail (specifying the places of residence
and occupations of the latter), before a Judge of the
Court, or County Judge, or County Clerk, at a’ specified time and place; the time to be not less than five
nor more than ten days thereafter, except by consent
of parties. In case other bail be given, there must be
a new undertaking. '

§ 494. The qualifications of bail are as follows:

1. Each of them shall be a resident and householder,
or freeholder, within the county;

2. Each must be worth the amount specified in the
order of arrest, or the amount to which the order is
reduced, as provided in this Chapter, over and above
all his debts and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution; but the Judge or County Clerk,
on justification, may allow more than two sureties to
justify, severally, in amounts less than that expressed
in the order, if the whole justification be equivalent
to that of two snflicient bail.

§ 495. For the purpose of justification, each
of the bail must attend before the Judge or County
Clerk, at the time and place mentioned in the notice,
and may be examined on oath on the part of the plaintifff, touching his sutliciency, in such manner as the
Judge or Clerk, in his discretion, may think proper.
The examination must be reduced to writing, and
subscribed by the bail, if required by the plaintifff.

§ 496. If the J ndge or Clerk find the bail
suiiicient, he must annex the examination to the undertaking, indorse his allowance thereon, and cause them
to be filed, and the Sheriff is thereupon exonerated
from liability.

§ 497. The defendant may, at the time of
his arrest, instead of giving bail, deposit with the
Sheriff the amount mentioned in the order. In case
the amount of the bail be reduced, as provided in
this Chapter, the defendant may deposit such amount
instead of giving bail. In either case the Sheriff must
give the defendant a certificate of the deposit made,
and the defendant must be discharged from custody.

§ 498. The Sheriff must, immediately after
the deposit, pay the same into Court, and take from the
Clerk receiving the same two certificates of such payment, the one of which he shall deliver to the plaintifff ’s
attorney, and the other to the defendant. For any
default in making such payment, the same proceedings
may be had on the official bond of the Sheriff, to collect the sum deposited, as in other cases of delinquency.

§ 499. If money is deposited, as provided
in the two last sections, bail may be given and may
justify upon notice, at any time before judgment;
and on the filing of the undertaking and justification
with the Clerk, the money deposited must be refunded
to the defendant.

§ 500. VVhere money has been deposited,
if it remain on deposit at the time of the recovery of
a judgment in favor of the plaintifff’, the Clerk must,
under the direction of the Court, apply the same in
satisfaction thereof; and after satisfying the judgment,
refund the surplus, if any, to the defendant. If the
judgment is in favor of the defendant, the Clerk must,
under like direction of the Court, refund to him the
whole sum deposited and remaining unapplied.

§ 501. If, after being arrested, the defendant escape or is rescued, the Sheriff is liable as bail;
but he may discharge himself from such liability by
the giving bail at any time before judgment.

§ 502. If a judgment is recovered against
the Sheriff upon his liability as bail, and an execution
thereon is returned unsatisfied in whole or in part, the
same proceedings may be had on his official bond, for
the recovery of the whole or any deficiency, as in
other cases of delinquency.

§ 503. A defendant arrested may at any

time before the justification of bail apply to the Judge 1
who made the order, or the Court in which the action 1

is pending, upon reasonable notice, to vacate the order

of arrest or to reduce the amount of bail. If the p

application is made upon affidavits on the part of the
defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose
the same by affidavits or other proofs, in addition to
those on which the order of arrest was made.

§ 504. If, upon such ‘application, it appears
that there was not sufficient cause for the arrest, the
order must be vacated; or if it appears that the bail
was fixed too high, the amount must be reduced.

§ 509. The plaintifff in an action to recover
the possession of personal property may, at the time
of issuing the summons, or at any time before answer,
claim the delivery of such property to him as provided
in this Chapter.

§ 510. Where a delivery is claimed, an
affidavit must be made by the plaintifff, or by some
one in his behalf, showing :

1. That the plaintifff is the owner of the property
claimed (particularly describing it), or is entitled to
the possession thereof ;

2. That the property is wrongfully detained by the
defendant;

3. The alleged cause of the detention thereof,
according to his best knowledge, information, and
belief;

4. That it has not been taken for a tax, assessment,
or fine, pursuant to a statute; or seized, under an execution or an attachment against the property of the
plaintifff; or, if so seized, that it is by statute exempt
horn such seizure;

5. The actual value of the property.

§ 511. The plaintifff or his attorney may,
thereupon, by an indorsemeut in writing upon the
affidavit, require the Sheriff of the county where the
property claimed may be, to take the same from the
defendant.

§ 512. Upon a receipt of the afhdavit and
notice, with a written undertaking, executed by two
or more sufiicient sureties, approved by the Sheriff, to
the effect that they are bound to the defendant in
double the value of the property as stated in the athdavit for the prosecution of the action, for the return
of the property to the defendants, if return thereof be
adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as
may from any cause be recovered against the plaintifff,
the Sheriff must forthwith take the propeity described
in the affidavit, if it be in the possession of the defendant or his agent, and retain it in his custody. He
must, without delay, serve on the defendant a copy of
the affidavit, notice, and undertaking, by delivering

the same to him personally, -if he can be found, or to
his agent from whose possession the property is taken;
or, if neither can be found, by leaving them at the
usual place of abode of either, with some person of
suitable age and discretion, or, if neither have any
known place of abode, by putting them in the nearest
Post Office, directed to the defendant.

§ 513. The defendant may, within two days
after the service of a copy of the affidavit and undertaking, give notice to the Sheriff that he excepts to the
sufhciency of the sureties. If he fails to do so, he is
deemed to have waived allobjections to them. When
the defendant excepts, the sureties must justify on
notice in like manner as upon bail on arrest; and the
Sheriff is responsible for the sufiiciency of the sureties
until the objection to them is either waived or until
they justify. If the defendant except to the sureties,
he cannot reclaim the property as provided in the next section.

§ 514. At any time before the delivery of
the property to the plaintifff, the defendant may, if he
do not except to the sureties of the plaintifff, require
the return thereof, upon giving to the Sheriff a written
undertaking, executed by two or more sufficient sureties, to the effect that they are bound in double the
value of the property, as stated in the affidavit of the
plaintifff, for the delivery thereof to the plaintifff, if
such delivery be adjudged, and for the payment to him
of such sum as may, for any cause, be recovered against
the defendant. If a return of the property be not so
required within five days after the taking and service
of notice to the defendant, it must be delivered to the
plaintifff, except as provided in Section 519.

§ 515. The defendant’s sureties, upon
notice to the plaintifff of not less than two or more

than five days, must justify before a Judge or County
Clerk, in the same manner as upon bail on arrest; and
upon such justification the Sheriff must deliver the
property to the defendant. The Sheriff is responsible
for the defendant’s sureties until they justify, or until
the justification is completed or waived, and may retain the property until that time. If they, or others
in their place, fail to justify at the time and place appointed, he must deliver the property to the plaintifff.

§ 516. The qualification of sureties must
be such as are prescribed by this Code, in respect to
bail upon an order of arrest.

§ 517. If the property, or any part thereof,
be concealed in a building or enclosure, the Sheriff
must publicly demand its delivery. If it be not delivered, he must cause the building or enclosure to be
broken open, and take the property into his possession; and, if necessary, he may call to his aid the
power of his county.

§ 518. When the Sheriff has taken property, as in this Chapter provided, he must keep it in a
secure place, and deliver it to the party entitled thereto, upon receiving his fees for taking and his necessary expenses for keeping the same.

§ 519. If the property taken be claimed
by any other person than the defendant or his agent,
and such person make affidavit of his title thereto,
or right to the possession thereof, stating the grounds
of such title or right, and serve the same upon the
Sheriff, the Sheriff is not bound to keep the property
or deliver it to the plaintifff, unless the plaintifff, on
demand of him or his agent, indemnify the Sheriif
against such claim, by an undertaking by two sumcient sureties; and no claim to such property by any

other person than the defendant or his agent is valid
against the Sheriff unless so made.

§ 520. The Sheriff’ must file the notice,
undertaking, and afhdavit, with his proceedings thereon, with the Clerk of the Court in which the action is
pending, within twenty days after taking the property
mentioned therein.

§ 521. In all actions upon undertakings given under
the provisions of this Chapter, when the merits of the
case have not been determined in the trial of the
action in which the same was given, the defendants
may, in their answer, set up as a defense such facts,
and also the title of the person in whose behalf the
undertaking was given to the property in dispute.

§ 525. An injunction is a writ or order
requiring a person to refrain from a particular act. It
may be granted by the Court in which the action is
brought, or by a Judge thereof, or by a County Judge;
and when made by a Judge, it may be enforced as the
order of the Court.

§ 526. An injunction may be granted in
the following cases:
1. When it appears by the complaint that the plaintifff is entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief,
or any part thereof‘, consists in restraining the commission or continuance of the act complained of, either
for a limited period or perpetually;

2. When it appears by the complaint or affidavit
that the commission or continuance of some act during
the litigation would produce waste, great or irreparable

injury to the plaintifff;

3. When it appears during the litigation that the
.defendant is doing, or threatens, or is about to do, or
is procuring or suffering to be done, some act in violation of the plaintifff’s rights, respecting the subject
of the action, and tending to render the judgment
ineffectual. '

§ 527. The injunction may be granted at
the time of issuing the summons, upon the complaint,
and at any time afterwards, before judgment, upon

affidavits. The complaint in the one case, and the
affidavits in the other, must show satisfactorily that
sufiicient grounds exist therefore. No injunction can
be granted on the complaint unless it is verilied.
When granted on the complaint, a copy of the complaint and verification attached must be served with
the injunction; when granted upon affidavit, a copy of
the affidavit must be served with the injunction.

§ 528. An injunction cannot be allowed
after the defendant has answered, unless upon notice,
or upon an order to show cause; but in such case the
defendant may be restrained until the decision of the
Court or Judge granting or refusing the injunction.

§ 529. On granting an injunction the Court
or Judge must require, except where the people of

the State are a party plaintifff, a written undertaking
on the part of the plaintifff, with suilicient sureties, to
the effect that the plaintifff will pay to the party
enjoined such damages, not exceeding an amount to be
specified, as such party may sustain by reason of the
injunction, if the Court finally decide that the plaintifff
was not entitled thereto.

§ 530. If the Court or Judge deem it proper
that the defendant, or any of several defendants, should
be heard before granting the injunction, an order may
be made requiring cause to be shown, at a specihed
time and place, why the injunction should not be
granted; and the defendant may, in the meantime,

be restrained.

§ 531. An injunction to suspend the general and ordinary business of a corporation cannot be
granted except by the Court or a Judge thereof; nor
can it be granted without due notice of the application
therefore to the proper officers or managing agent of
the corporation, except when the people of this State

are a party to the proceeding.

§ 532. If an injunction be granted without
notice, the defendant, at any time before the trial, may
apply, upon reasonable notice to the Judge who granted
the injunction, or to the Court in which the action is
brought, to dissolve or modify the same. The application may be made upon the complaint and the affidavit on which the injunction was granted, or upon
affidavit on the part of the defendant, with or without
the answer. If the application be made upon affidavits
on the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the
plaintifff may oppose the same by affidavits or other
evidence, in addition to those on which the injunction

was granted.

§ 533. If upon such application it satisfactorily appear that there is not suiiicient ground for the
injunction, it must be dissolved; or if it satisfactorily
appear that the extent of the injunction is too great, it
must be modified.

§ 537. The plaintifff, at the time of issuing

the summons, or at any time afterward, may have the

property of the defendant attached as security for the
satisfaction of any judgment that may be recovered,
unless defendant give security to pay such judgment,
as in this Chapter provided, in the following cases:

1. In an action upon a contract, express or implied,
for the direct payment of money, which contract is
made or is payable in this State, and is not secured by
mortgage, lien, or pledge upon real or personal property; or, if so secured, that such security has been
rendered nugatory by the act of the defendant;

2. In an action upon a contract, express or implied,
against a defendant not residing in this State.

§ 538. The Clerk of the Court must issue
the Writ of attachment upon receiving an affidavit by
or on behalf of plaintifff, showing:

1. That the defendant is indebted to the plaintifff
(specifying the amount of such indebtedness, over and
above all legal set-offs or counterclaims,) upon a contract, express or implied, for the direct payment of
money, and that such contract was made or is payable
in this State, and that the payment of the same has
not been secured by any mortgage, lien, or pledge
upon real -and personal property; or,

2. That the defendant is indebted to the plaintifff
(specifying the amount of such indebtedness, as near
as may be, over and above all legal set-offs or counter
claims,) and that the defendant is a non-resident‘ of the
State; and,

3. That the sum for which the attachment is asked
is an actual bona fide existing debt, due and owing from
the defendant to the plaintifff, and that the attachmetff
is not sought, and the action is not prosecuted to linder, delay, or defraud any creditor or creditors of he
defendant.

§ 539. Before issuing the writ, the Jerk
must require a written undertaking on the part f the

plaintifff, in a sum not less than two hundred dollars,
and not exceeding the amount claimed by the plaintifff,
with sufiicient sureties, to the effect that if the defendant recover judgment, the plaintifff Will pay all costs
that may be awarded to the defendant, and all damages
which he may sustain by reason of the attachment,

-not exceeding the sum specified _in the undertaking.

§ 540. The Writ must be directed to the
Sheriff of any county in which property of such defendant may be, and must require him to attach and
safely keep all the property of such defendant Within
his county, not exempt from execution, or so much
thereof as may be sufiicient to satisfy the plaintiff:’t"s
demand, the amount of which must be stated in conformity With the complaint, unless the defendant give
him security by the undertaking of at least two su1licient sureties, in an amount sufiicient to satisfy such
demand, besides costs, or in an amount equal to the
value of the property which has been, or is about to
be, attached; in which case, to take such undertaking.
Several Writs may be issued at the same time to the
Sheriff's of different counties. °

§ 541. The rights or shares which the defendant may have in the stock of any corporation or
company, together with the interest and profit thereon,
and all debts due such defendant, and all other property in this State of such defendant not exempt from
execution, may be attached, and if judgment be recovered, be sold to satisfy the judgment and execution.

§ 542. The Sheriff’ to whom the writ is
directed and delivered, must execute the same without
delay, and if the undertakingmentioned in Section
540 be not given, as follows:

1. Real property, standing upon the records of the
county in the name of the defendant, must be attached,
by iiling with the Recorder of the county a copy of

the Writ, together with a description of the property :
attached, and a notice that it is attached; and by leaving a similar copy of the writ, description, and notice
with an occupant of the property, if there is one, if
not, then by posting the same in a conspicuous place
on the property attached ;

2. Real property, or an interest therein, belonging to
the defendant, and held by any other person, or standing
on the records of the county in the name of any other
person, must be attached, by filing with the Recorder of
the county 3. copy of the Writ, together with a description of the property, and a'notice that’ such real property, and any interest of the defendant therein, held
by or standing in the name of such other person (naming him), are attached; and by leaving With the occupant, if any, and with such other person, or his agent,
if known and Within the county, or at the residence of
either, if Within the county, a copy of the‘Writ, with
a similar description and notice. If there is no occupant of the property, a copy of the writ, together with
such description and notice, must be posted in a conspicuous place upon the property. The Recorder must
index such attachment when filed, in the names, both
of the defendant and of the person by whom the property is held or in Whose name it stands on the records;

3. Personal property, capable of manual delivery,
must be attached by taking it into custody;

4. Stocks or shares, or interest in stocks or shares, of
any corporation or company, must be attached by leaviiig with the President, or other head of the same, or
the Secretary, Cashier, or other managing agent
thereof, a copy of the Writ, and a notice stating that
the stock or interest of the defendant is attached, in
pursuance of such writ; 5. Debts and credits, and other personal property,
not capable of manual delivery, must be attached by
leaving with the person owning such debts, or having

in his possession, or under his control, such credits and
other personal property, or with his agent, a ‘copy of
the writ, and a notice that the debts owing by hini to
the defendant, or the credits and other personal property in his possession, or under his control, belonging

to the defendant, are attached in pursuance of such

writ.

§ 543. Upon receiving information in Writing from the plaintifff or his attorney, that any person
has in his possession, or under his control, any credits
or other personal property belonging to the defendant,
or is owing any debt to' the defendant, the Sheriff
must serve upon such person a copy of the writ, and a
notice that such credits, or other property or debts, as
the case may be, are attached in pursuance of such

Writ.

§ 544. All persons having in their possession, or under their control, any credits or other personal property belonging to the defendant, or owing
any debts to the defendant at the time of service upon

' them of a copy of the writ and notice, as provided in

the last two sections, shall be, unless such property be
delivered up or transferred, or such debts be paid to
the Sheriff, liable to the plaintifff for the amount of
such credits, property, or debts, until the attachment
be discharged, or any judgment recovered by him be
satisfied.

§ 545. Any person owing debts to the defendant, or having in his possession, or under his control, any credits or other personal property belonging
to the defendant, may be required to attend before
the Court or Judge, or a referee appointed by the
Court or Judge, and be examined on oath respecting
the same. The defendant may also be required to‘
attend for the purpose of giving information respecting his property, and may be examined on oath. The

Court or Judge may, after such examination, order
personal property, capable of manual delivery, to be
delivered to the Sheriff on such terms as may be just,
having reference to any liens thereon or claims against
the same, and a memorandum to be given of all other
personal property, containing the amount and description thereof.

§ 546. The Sheriff must make afull inventory of the property attached, and return the same
with the Writ. To enable him to make such return as
to debts and credits attached, he must request, at the
time of service, the party owing the debt or having
the credit to give him a memorandum, stating the
amount and description of each; and if such memorandum be refused, he must return thelfact of refusal
with the writ. The party refusing to give the memorandum may be required to pay the costs of any proceedings taken for the purpose of obtaining information respecting the amounts and description of such
debt or credit.

§ 547. If any of the property attached be
perishable, the Sheriff must sell the same in the manner in which such property is sold on execution. The
proceeds, and other property attached by him, must
be retained by him to answer any judgment that may
be recovered in the action, unless sooner subjected to
execution upon another judgment recovered previous
to the issuing of the attachment. Debts and credits
attached may be collected by him, if the same can be
done without suit. The Sheriff’ s receipt is a suiiicient
discharge for the amount paid. ‘

§ 548. Whenever property has been taken
by an officer under a Writ of attachment, and it is made
to appear satisfactorily to the Court, or a Judge thereof,
or a County Judge, that the interest. of the parties to
the action will be subserved by a sale thereof, the Court

or Judge may order such property to be sold in the
same manner as property is sold under an execution,
and the proceeds to be deposited in the Court, to abide
the judgment in the action. Such order can be made
only upon notice to the adverse party or his attorney,
in case such party has been personally served with a
summons in the action.

§ 549. If any personal property attached
be claimed by a third person as his property, the
Sheriff‘ may summon a jury of six men to try the
validity of such claim; and such proceedings shall be
had thereon, with the like effect, as in case of a claim

after levy upon execution.

§ 550. If judgment be recovered by the
plaintifff, the Sheriff must satisfy the same out of the
property attached by him Which has not been delivered to the defendant, or a claimant as hereinbefore
provided, or subjected to execution on another judgment recovered previous to the issuing of the attachment, if it be sufficient for that purpose:

1. By paying to the plaintifff the proceeds of all
sales of perishable property sold by him, or of any
debts or credits collected by him, or so much as shall
be necessary to satisfy the judgment;

2. If any balance remain due, and an execution shall
have been issued on the judgment, he must sell under
the execution so much of the property, real or per\sonal, as may be necessary to satisfy the balance, if
enough for that purpose remain in his hands. Notices
of the sales must be given, and the sales conducted as
in other cases of sales on execution.

§ 551. If, after selling all the property
attached by him remaining in his hands, and applying
the proceeds, together with the proceeds of any debts
or credits collected by him, deducting his fees, to the
payment of the judgment, any balance shall remain

due, the Sheriff must proceed to collect such balance,
as upon an execution in other cases. Whenever the
judgment shall have been paid, the Sheriif, upon
reasonable demand, must deliver over to the defendant the attached property remaining in his hands, and
any proceeds of the property attached unapplied on the
judgment.

§ 552. If the execution be returned unsatisfied, in Whole or in part, the plaintifff may prosecute
any undertaking given pursuant to Section 540 or Section 555, or he may proceed, as in other cases,
upon the return of an execution.

§ 553. If the defendant recover judgment
against the plaintifff, any undertaking received in the
action, all the proceeds of sales and money collected
by the Sheriff, and all the property attached remaining in the Sheriff ‘s hands, must be delivered to the
defendant or his agent. The order of attachment shall
be discharged, and the property released therefrom.

§ 554. Wlienever the defendant has appeared in the action, he may, upon reasonable notice
to the plaintifff, apply to the Court in which the action
is pending, or to the Judge thereof, or to a County
Judge, for an order to discharge the attachment,
wholly or in part; and upon the execution of the
undertaking mentioned in the next section, an order
may be made, releasing from the operation of the
attachment any ‘or all of the property attached, and all
of the property so released, and all of the proceeds of
the sales thereof, must be delivered to the defendant,
upon the justification of the sureties on the undertaking, if required by the plaintifff.

§ 555. Before the making such order, the
Court or Judge must require an undertaking on behalf

of the defendant, by at least two sureties, residents

and freeholders or householders in the county, to the

effect that in case the plaintifff recover judgment in

the action, defendant will, on demand, redeliver the

attached property so released, to the proper officer, to
be applied to the payment of the judgment, and that
in default thereof the defendant and sureties will, on
demand, pay to the plaintifff the full value of the property released. The Court or Judge making such order
may fix the sum for which the undertaking must be
executed, and if necessary in fixing such sum to know
the value of the property released, the same may be
appraised by three disinterested persons to be appointed for that purpose. The sureties may be required
to justify before the Court or Judge, and the property
attached cannot be released from the attachment without their justification, if the same be required.

§ 556. The defendant may, also, any time
before the time for answering expires, apply, on
motion, upon reasonable notice to the plaintifff, to the
Court in which the action is brought, or to the Judge
thereof, or to a County Judge, that the attachment be
discharged on the ground that the writ was improperly
or irregularly issued.

§ 557. If the motion be made upon affidavits on the part of the defendant, but not otherwise,
the plaintifff may oppose the same by aiiidavits or
other evidence, in addition to those on which the
attachment was made.

§ 558. If, upon such application, it satisfactorily appears that the writ of attachment was improperly or irregularly issued, it must be discharged.

§ 559. The Sheriff must return the writ
of attachment with the summons, if issued at the
same time; otherwise, within twenty days after its

receipt, With a certificate of his proceedings indorsed
thereon or attached thereto.

§ 564. A Receiver may be appointed by
the Court in Which an action is pending, or by the
Judge thereof:

1. In an action by a vendor to vacate a fraudulent
purchase of property, or by a creditor to subject any
property or fund to his claim, or between partners or
others jointly owning or interested in any property or
fund, on the application of the plaintifff, or of any party
whose right to or interest in the property or fund, or
the proceeds thereof‘, is probable, and where it is shown
that the property or fund is in danger of being lost,
removed, or materially injured;

2. In an action by a mortgagee for the foreclosure
of his mortgage and sale of the mortgaged property,
Where it appears that the mortgaged property is in
danger of being lost, removed, or materially injured,
or that the condition of the mortgage has not been
performed, and that the property is probably insufficient to discharge the mortgage debt;

3. After judgment, to carry the judgment into effect;

4. After judgment, to dispose of the property according to the judgment, or to preserve it during the pendency of an appeal, or in proceedings in aid of execution, when an execution has been returned unsatisfied,
or when the judgment debtor refuses to apply his
property in satisfaction of the judgment;

5. In the cases when a corporation has been dissolved, or is insolvent, or in imminent danger of insolvency, or has forfeited its corporate rights;

6. In all other cases Where Receivers have heretofore been appointed by the usages of Courts of equity.

§ 565. Upon the dissolution of any corporation, the
District Court of the county in Which the corporation
carries on its business, or has its principal place of
business, on application of any creditor of the corporation, or of any stockholder or member thereof, may
appoint one or more persons to be receivers or trustees
of the corporation, to take charge of the estate and
effects thereof‘, and to collect the debts and property
due and belonging to the corporation, and to pay the
outstanding debts thereof, and to divide the monies
and other property that shall remain over, among the
stockholders or members.

§ 566. No party, or attorney, or person interested
in an action, can be appointed receiver therein.

§ 567. Before entering upon his duties, the receiver
must be sworn to perform them faithfully, and with
one or more sureties, approved by the Court or Judge,
execute an undertaking to such person, and in such
sum as the Court or Judge may direct, to the etfect
that he Will faithfully discharge the duties of receiver
in the action, and obey the orders of the Court therein.

§ 568. The receiver has, under the control of the

Court, power to bring and defend actions in his own
name, as receiver; to take and keep possession of the
property, to receive rents, collect debts, to compound
for and compromise the same, to make transfers, and

generally to do such acts respecting the property as
the Court may authorize.

§ 569. Funds in the hands of a receiver may be :

invested upon interest, by order of the Court; but no
such order can be made, except upon the consent of
all the parties to the action.

§ 572. When it is admitted by the pleading, or shown upon the examination of a party, that
he has in his possession or under his control any money
or other thing capable of delivery, which, being the
subject of litigation, is held by him as trustee for
another party, or which belongs or is due to another
party, the Court may order the same, upon motion, to
be deposited in Court or delivered to such party, upon
such conditions as may be just, subject to the further

direction of the Court.

§ 573. If the money is deposited in Court it must
be paid to the Clerk, who must deposit it with the
County Treasurer, by him to be held subject to the
order of the Court. For the safe keeping of the

money deposited with him the Treasurer is liable on
his official bond.

§ 574. Whenever, in the exercise of its authority,
a Court has ordered the deposit or delivery of money,
or other thing, and the order is disobeyed, the Court,
beside punishing the disobedience, may make an order

requiring the Sheriff to take the money, or thing, and
deposit or deliver it in conformity with the direction
of the Court. 
§ 577. A judgment is the final determination of the rights of the parties in an action or proceeding.

§ 578. Judgment may be given for or‘

against one or more of several plaintifffs, and for or
against one or more of several defendants; and it may,

when the justice of the case requires it, determine

the ultimate rights of the parties on each side, as between themselves. ‘*1

§ 579. In an action against several defend- .

ants, the Court may, in its discretion, render judgment
against one or more of them, leaving the action to proceed against the others, Whenever a several judgment
is proper.

§ 580. The relief granted to the plaintifff,
if there be no answer, cannot exceed that which he
shall have demanded in his complaint; but in any other
case, the Court may grant him any relief consistent

with the case made by the complaint and embraced
within the issue.

§ 581. An action may be dismissed, or a
judgment of nonsuit entered, in the following cases:

1. By the plaintifff himself, at any time before trial,
upon the payment of costs, if a counterclaim has not
been made. If a provisional remedy has been allowed,
the undertaking must thereupon be delivered by the
Clerk to the defendant, who may have his action
thereon;

2. By either party, upon the Written consent of the
other;

3. By the Court, when the plaintifff fails to appear
on the trial, and the defendant appears and asks for
the dismissal;

4. By the Court, When, upon the trial, and before
the final submission of the case, the plaintifff abandons it;

5. By the Court, upon motion of the defendant,
when, upon the trial, the plaintifff fails to prove a
sufficient case for the jury.

The dismissal mentioned in the first two subdivisions is made by an entry in the Clerk's register.
Judgment may thereupon be entered accordingly.

§ 582. In every case, other than those
mentioned in the last section, judgment must be rendered on the merits.

§ 585. Judgment may be had, if the defendant fail to answer the complaint, as follows:

1. In an action arising upon contract for the recovery of money or damages only, if no answer has been
filed with the Clerk of the Court within the time
specined in the summons, or such further time as may
have been granted, the Clerk, upon application of the
plaintifff, must enter the default of the defendant, and
immediately thereafter enter judgment for the amount
specined in the summons, including the costs, against
the defendant, or against one or more of several defendants, in the cases provided for in Section 414;

2. In other actions, if no answer has been filed with
the Clerk of the Court within the time specined in
the summons, or such further time as may have been
granted, the Clerk must enter the default of the defendant; and thereafter the planitiff may apply at the
fLI‘St or any subsequent term of the Court for the relief
demanded in the complaint. If the taking of an account, or the proof of any fact, is necessary to enable
the Court to give judgment, or to carry the judgment
into effect, the Court may take the account or hear
the proof; or may, in its discretion, order a reference

for that purpose. And where the action is for the recovery of damages, in whole or in part, the Court
may order the damages to be assessed by a jury; or

if, to determine the amount of damages, the examination ot a long account be involved, by a reference as
above provided;

3. In actions Where the service of the summons was
by publication, the plaintifff, upon the expiration of
the time for answering, may, upon proof of the publication, and that no answer has been filed, apply for
judgment; and the ‘Court must thereupon require proof
to be made of the demand mentioned in the complaint; and it the defendant be not a resident of the
State, must require the plaintifff or his agent to be
examined on oath respecting any payments that have
been made to the plaintifff, or to any one for his use,
on account of such demand, and may render judgment
for the amount which he is entitled to recover.


§ 588. Issues arise upon the pleadings when
a fact or a conclusion of law is maintained by the one
party and is controverted by the other. They are of
two kinds:

1. Of law; and,‘

2. Of fact.

§ 589. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the complaint or answer, or to some part thereof.

§ 590. An issue of fact arises:

1. Upon a material allegation in the complaint controverted by the answer; and,

2. Upon new matters in the answer, except an issue
of law is joined thereon.

§ 591. An issue of law must be tried by
the Court, unless it is referred upon consent.

§ 592. An issue of fact must be tried by a
jury, unless a jury trial is waived, or a reference be
ordered, as provided in this Code. Where there are

issues both of law and fact, the issue of law must be
first disposed of. '

§ 593. The Clerk must enter causes upon
the calendar of the Court according to the date of
issue. Causes once placed on the calendar for a general or special term, if not tried or heard at such term,
must remain upon the calendar from Court to Court,
until finally disposed of.

§ 594. Either party may bring an issue to
trial, or to a hearing, and in the absence of the adverse
party, unless the Court, for good cause, otherwise
direct, may proceed with his case, and take a dismissal of the action, or a verdict, or judgment, as the
case may require.

§ 595. A motion to postpone a trial on the
ground of the absence of evidence can only be made
upon affidavit, showing the materiality of the evidence
expected to be obtained, and that due diligence has
been used to procure it. The Court may also require
the moving party to state, upon affidavit, the evidence
which he expects to obtain; and if the adverse party
thereupon admit that such evidence would be given,

and that it be considered as actually given on the
trial, or offered and overruled as improper, the trial
must not be postponed.

§ 596. The party obtaining a postponement of a trial in any Court of record must, if required
by the adverse party, consent that the testimony of
any Witness of such adverse party, Who is in attendance, be then taken by deposition before a Judge or
Clerk of the Court in which the case is pending, or
before such Notary Public as the Court may indicate,
which must accordingly be done; and the testimony
so taken may be read on the trial, with the same
effect, and subject to the same objections, as if the
witnesses were produced.


§ 600. When the action is called for trial
by jury, the Clerk must draw from the trial jury box
of the Court the ballots containing the names of the
jurors, until the jury is completed, or the ballots are

exhausted.

§ 601. Either party may challenge the
jurors, but where there are several parties on either
side, they must join in a challenge before it can be
made. The challenges are to individual jurors, and
are either peremptory or for cause. Each party is
entitled to four peremptory challenges.

§ 602. Challenges for cause may be taken
on one or more of the following grounds:

1. A want of any of the qualifications prescribed by
this Code to render a person competent as a juror;

2. Consanguinity or aflinity, Within the third_degree,
to any party;

3. Standing in the relation of guardian and ward,
master and servant, employer and clerk, or principal
and agent, to either party, or being a member of the
family of either party, or a partner in business with
either party, or surety on any bond or obligation for
either party;

4. Having served as a juror or been a witness on a
previous trial between the same parties, for the same
cause of action;

5. Interest on the part of the juror in the event of
the action, or in the main question involved in the
action, except the interest of the juror as a member
or citizen of a municipal corporation;

6. Having formed or expressed an unqualified opinion or belief as to the merits of the action;

7. The existence of, a state of mind in the juror
evincing enmity against, or bias to, either party.

§ 603. Challenges for cause must be tried
by the Court. The juror challenged and any other
person may be examined as a witness on the trial of
the challenge.

§ 604. As soon as the jury is completed,
an oath must be administered to the jurors, in substance, that they and each of them will well and truly
try the matter in issue between , the plaintifff, and
——, defendant, and a true verdict render according
to the evidence.

§ 607. When the jury has been sworn, the trial must
proceed in the following order, unless the Judge, for
special reasons, otherwise directs:

1. The plaintifff, after stating the issue and his case,
must produce the evidence on his part;

2. The defendant may then open his defense, and
offer his evidence in support thereof;

3. The parties may then respectively offer rebutting
evidence only, unless the Court, for good reason, in
furtherance of justice, permit them to offer evidence
upon their original case;

4. When the evidence is concluded, unless the case
is submitted to the jury on either side or on both sides
Without argument, the plaintifff must commence and
may conclude the argument;

5. If several defendants, having separate defenses,
appear by different counsel, the Court must determine
their relative order in the evidence and argument;

6. The Court may then charge the jury.

§ 608. In charging the jury the Court may
state to them all matters of law which it thinks necessary for their information in giving their verdict; and,
if it state the testimony of the case, it must inform the
jury that they are the exclusive judges of all questions
of fact. The Q-.I‘1rt must furnish to either party, at
the time, upon 1* iest, a statement in writing of the
points of law contained in the charge, or sign, at the
time, a statement of such points prepared and submitted by the counsel of either party.

§ 609. Where either party asks special instructions
to be given to the jury, the Court must either give

such instruction, as requested, or refuse to do so, or '

give the instruction with a modiiication, in such manner that it may distinctly appear what instructions
were given in whole or in part.

§ 610. When, in the opinion of the Cotirt, it is
proper for the jury to have a view of the property
which is the subject of litigation, or of the place in
which any material fact occurred, it may order them
to be conducted, in a body, under the charge of an
oiiicer, to the place, which shall be shown to them by
some person appointed by the Court for that purpose.
VVhile the jury are thus absent, no person, other than
the person so appointed, shall speak to them on any
subject connected with the trial.

§ 611. If the jury are permitted to separate, either
‘during the trial or after the case is submitted to thein,
they shall be admonished by the Court that it is their
duty; not to converse with, or suffer themselves to be
addres‘.sed by any other person, on any subject of the
trial, and that it is their duty not to form or express an

opinion thereon until the case is finally submitted to
them.

§ 612. Upon retiring for deliberation the
jury may take with them all papers which have been
received as evidence in the cause, except depositions,
or copies of such papers as ought not, in the opinion
of the Court, to be taken from the person having
them in possession; and they may also take with them
notes of the testimony or other praaeedings on the
trial, taken by themselves or any, wthem, but none
taken by any other person.

§ 613. When the case is finally submitted

to the jury, they may decide in Court or retire for 

deliberation. If they retire, they must be kept
together, in some convenient place, under charge of
an oiiicer, until they agree upon a verdict or are discharged by the Court. Unless by order of the Court,
the officer having them under his charge must not
suffer any communication to be made to them, or
make any himself, except to ask them if they are
agreed upon their verdict; and he must not, before
their verdict is rendered, communicate to any person
the state of their deliberations, or the verdict agreed
upon.

§ 614. After the jury have retired for
deliberation, if there be a disagreement between them
as to any part of the testimony, or if they desire to be
informed of any point of law arising in the cause,
they may require the officer to conduct them into
Court. Upon their being brought into Court, the
information required must be given in the presence of,
or after notice to, the parties or counsel.

§ 615. If, alter the empaneling of the jury,
land before verdict, a juror become sick, so as to be

unable to perform his duty, the Court may order him
to be discharged. In that case the trial may proceed

’with the other jurors, or another juror may be sworn

and the trial begin anew; or the jury may be discharged, and a new jury then or afterwards empaneled.

§ 616. In all cases where the jury are discharged, or prevented from giving a verdict, by reason of accident or other cause, during the progress of
the trial, or after the cause is submitted to them, the
action may be again tried immediately, or at a future
time, as the Court may direct.

§ 617. While the jury are absent the
Court may adjourn from time to time, in respect to
other business; but it is nevertheless open for every
purpose connected with the cause submitted to the
jury, until a verdict is rendered or the jury discharged.
The Court may direct the jury to bring in a sealed
verdict, at the opening of the Court, in case of an
agreement during a recess or adjournment for the day.
A final adjournment of the Court for the term discharges the jury.

§ 618. When the jury have agreed upon
their verdict, they must be conducted into Court, their
names called by the Clerk, and the verdict rendered
by their foreman. The verdict must be in writing,
signed by the foreman, and must be read by the Clerk
to the jury, and the inquiry made whether it is their
verdict. If any juror disagrees, they must be sent
out again; but if no disagreement be expressed, and
neither party requires the jury to be polled, the verdict is complete a11d the jury discharged from the
case. Either party may require the jury to be polled,
which is done by the Court or Clerk asking each juror
if it is his verdict. If any one answer in the negative,

the jury must again be sent out.

§ 619. When the verdict is announced, if
it is informal or insufiicient, in not covering the issue
submitted, it may be corrected by the jury under the

advice of the Court, or the jury may be again sent
out.

§ 624. The verdict of a jury is either general or special. A general verdict is that by which
they pronounce generally upon all or any of the issues,
either in favor of the plaintifff or defendant; a special
verdict is that by which the jury find the facts only,
leaving the judgment to the Court. The special verdict must present the conclusions of fact as established
by the evidence, and not the evidence to prove them;
and those conclusions of fact must be so presented as
that nothing shall remain to the Court but to draw
from them conclusions of law.

§ 625. In an action for the recovery of
money only, or specific real property, the jury, in
their discretion, may render a general or special verdict. In all other cases the Court may direct the jury
to find a special verdict in Writing upon all or any of
the issues, and in all cases may instruct them, if they
render a general verdict, to find upon particular questions of fact, to be stated in Writing, and may direct a
written finding thereon. The special verdict or finding must be nled with the Clerk and entered upon the

minutes. Where a special finding of facts is inconsistent with the general verdict, the former controls
the latter, and the Court must give judgment accordingly.

§ 626. When a verdict is found for the
plaintifff in an action for the recovery of money, or for
the defendant, when a counterclaim for the recovery
of money is established, exceeding the amount of the
plaintifff ’s claim as established, the jury must also find
the amount of the recovery.

§ 627. In an action for the recovery of
specific personal property, if the property has not
been delivered to the plaintifff, or the defendant, by
his answer, claim a return thereof; the jury, if their
verdict be in favor of the plaintifff, or if being in favor
of the defendant they also find that he is entitled to a
return thereof, must find the value of the property,
and may at the same time assess the damages, if any
are claimed in the complaint or answer, which the
prevailing party has sustained by reason of the taking
or detention of such property.

§ 628. Upon receiving a verdict, an entry
must be made by the Clerk in the minutes of the
Court, specifying the time of trial, the names of the
jurors and witnesses, and setting out the verdict at
length; and Where special verdict is found, either the
judgment rendered thereon, or if the case be reserved
for argument or further consideration, the order thus
reserving it.

§ 631. Trial by jury may be Waived by the

several parties to an issue of fact, in actions arising on
contract, and with the assent of the Court in other
actions, in the manner following:

1. By failing to appear at the trial;

2. By Written consent, in person or by attorney,
filed with the Clerk;

3. By oral consent, in open Court, entered in the
minutes.

The Court may prescribe by rule What shall be
deemed a Waiver in other cases. '

§ 632. Upon the trial of a question of fact by the
Court, its decision must be given in writing and filed
with the Clerk within twenty days after the cause is
submitted for decision, and unless the decision is filed
Within that time the action must again be tried.

§ 633. In giving the decision, the facts found and
the conclusions of law must be separately stated.
Judgment upon the decision must be entered accordingly.

§ 634. Findings of fact may be Waived by the several parties to an issue of fact:

1. By failing to appear at the trial;

2. By consent in writing, filed with the Clerk;

3. By oral consent in open Court, entered in the
minutes.

§ 635. At the time the cause is submitted, the
Judge may direct either or both of the parties to prepare findings of facts, unless they have been waived,
and when so directed, the party must Within two days
prepare and serve upon his adversary, and submit
to the Judge such findings, and may Within two
days thereafter, briefly suggest in writing to the
Judge Why he desires findings upon the points included
Within the findings prepared by himself, or Why he
objects to findings upon the points included Within the
findings prepared by his adversary. The Judge may
adopt, modify, or reject the findings so submitted. If,
at the time of the submission of the cause, the Judge
does not direct the preparation of findings, or if none
are prepared and submitted Within the time prescribed, or those prepared are rejected, then he must
himself prepare the findings.

§ 636. On a judgment for the plaintifff upon an
issue of law, he may proceed in the manner prescribed by the first two subdivisions of Section 585,
upon the failure of the defendant to answer. If judgment be for the defendant upon an issue of law, and
the taking of an account, or the proof of any fact, be
necessary to enable the Court to complete the judgment, 3. reference may be ordered, as in that section
provided.

§ 638. A reference may be ordered upon
the agreement of the parties filed with the Clerk, or
entered in the minutes:

1. To try any or all of the issues in an action or
proceeding, whether of fact or of law, and to report a
finding and judgment thereon;

2. To ascertain a fact necessary to enable the Court
to determine an action or proceeding.

§ 639. When the parties do not consent,
the Court may, upon the application of either, or of
its own motion, direct a reference in the following
cases:

1. When the trial of an issue of fact requires the
examination of a long account on either side; in which
case the referees may be directed to hear and decide
the whole issue, or report upon any specific question of
fact involved therein;

' 2. When the taking of an account is necessary for
the information of the Court before judgment, or for
carrying a judgment or order into effect;

3. When a question of fact, other than upon the
pleadings, arises upon motion or otherwise, in any
stage of the action;

4. When it is necessary for the information of the
Court in a special proceeding.

§ 640. A reference may be ordered to any
person or persons, not exceeding three, agreed upon
by the parties. If the parties do not agree, the Court
or Judge must appoint one or more referees, not exceeding three, who reside in the county in which the
action or proceeding is triable, and against Whom there
is no legal objection, or the reference may be made to
a Court Commissioner of the county Where the cause
is pending.

§ 641. Either party may object to the
appointment of any person as referee, on one or more

of the following grounds:
1. A want of any of the qualifications prescribed by

statute to render a person competent as a juror;

2. Consanguinity or aflinity, within the third degree,
to either party;

3. Standing in the relation of guardian and ward,
master and servant, employer and clerk, or principal
and agent, to either party, or being a member of the
family of either party; or a partner in business with
either party; or being security on any bond or obligation for either party;

4. Having served as a juror or been a witness on
any trial between the same parties for the same cause
of action;

5. Interest on the part of such person in the event
of the action, or in the main question involved in the
action;

6. Having formed or expressed an unqualified opinion or belief as to the merits of the action;

7. The existence of a state of mind in such person
evincing enmity against or bias to either party.

§ 642. The objections taken to the appointment of any person as referee must be heard
and disposed of by the Court. Aliidavits may be
read and witnesses examined as to such objections.

§ 643. The referees or Commissioner must
report their findings in writing to the Court within
twenty days after the testimony is closed, and the
facts found and conclusions of law must be separately
stated therein.

§ 644. The finding of the referee or commissioner
upon the whole issue must stand as the finding of the
Court, and upon filing of the finding with the Clerk of
the Court, judgment may be entered thereon in the

same manner as if the action had been tried by the
Court.

§ 645. The findings of the referee or commissioner

may be excepted to and reviewed in like manner as if i

made by the Court. When the reference is to report

the facts, the finding reported has the effect of a special verdict.

§ 646. Exceptions may be taken by either party to
any ruling or decision made by a Court or Judge,
either before or after judgment, in any action or proceeding, but, except in the cases provided for in the
next section, must be taken at the time the ruling is

made.

§ 647. The adverse party is deemed to have excepted
to the verdict of the jury, or the iinal decision of the
Court or referee, to an order granting or refusing a
new trial, sustaining or overruling a demurrer, striking

out a pleading or any part thereof, granting or refusing
a continuance, granting or refusing to change the place
of trial; and is also deemed to have excepted to every
order, ruling, or proceeding made or had in the action
or proceeding, either before or after judgment, upon

an ex parte application.

§ 648. No particular form of exception is
required. The objection must be stated, with so much
of the evidence or other matter as is necessary to
explain it, and no more. But when the exception is
to the verdict or decision, upon the grounds of the
insuiiiciency of the evidence to sustain it, the objection
must specify the particulars in which such evidence is
alleged to be insufficient.

§ 649. A bill containing the exception to any ruling
may be presented to the Judge at the time the ruling
is made. It must be conformable to the truth, or be

at the time corrected until it is so, and signed by the
Judge, and filed with the Clerk.

§ 650. If a bill is not presented at the time of the
ruling, a bill containing the exceptions, or any of them,
relating to any ruling had up to the time of the entry
of judgment, may, upon one day’s notice to the adverse party, at any time after such ruling is made, and
Within thirty days after the entry of judgment, be
presented to the Judge and settled, as provided in
the preceding section,

§ 651. A bill containing the exceptions to any ruling
made after judgment, except to a ruling made granting or refusing a new trial, may be presented to the
Judge at the time of such ruling, and be settled as
provided-in Section 649; and, if not so presented,
may, upon one day’s notice, and at any time after, and
Within ten days of, such ruling, be presented and
settled as in such section provided.

§ 652. If the Judge in any case refuse to allow an
exception in accordance with the facts, the party
desiring the bill settled may apply by petition to the
Supreme Court to prove the same. The application
may be made in the mode and manner, and under
such regulations as that Court may prescribe; and the
bill, when proven, must be certified by the Chief
Justice as correct, and filed with the Clerk of the
Court in which the action was tried, and when so filed
it has the same force and effect as if settled by the
Judge who tried the cause.

§ 653. If the Judge who presided at the trial ceases
to hold office before the bill is tendered or settled, he
may, nevertheless, settle such bill, or the party may,
as provided in the preceding section, apply to the
Supreme Court to prove the same.

§ 656. A new trial is a reexamination of
an issue of fact in the same Court after a trial and
decision by a jury or Court, or by referees.

§ 657. The former verdict or other decision may be vacated and a new trial granted, on the 3
application of the party aggrieved, for any of the 7

following causes, materially affecting the substantial
rights of such party:

1. Irregularity in the proceedings of the Court, jury,
or adverse party, or any order of the Court or abuse
of discretion by which either party was prevented from
having a fair trial;

2. Misconduct of the jury; and whenever any one
or more of the jurors have been induced to assent to
any general or special verdict, or to a finding on any
question submitted to them by the Court, by a resort
to the determination of chance, such misconduct may
be proved by the affidavit of any one of the jurors;

3. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence
could not have guarded against;

4. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party
making the application, which he could not, with
reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced at
the trial;

5. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given
under the iniiuence of passion or prejudice;

6. Insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other decision, or that it is against law;

7. Error in law, occurring at the trial and excepted
to by the party making the application.

§ 658. When the application is made for a cause
mentioned in the fifth, sixth, and seventh subdivisions
of the last section, it is made upon bills of exception
on file; for any other cause it is made upon affidavit.
If the application is made upon affidavits, the aiiida
vits of the moving party must be filed with the Clerk
and served upon the adverse party, Within twenty-five
days after the verdict or decision is made. The
adverse party may file counter affidavits within five
days thereafter, and, upon leave of the Court or Judge,
the moving party may Within five days file affidavits
in rebuttal. '

§ 659. The party intending to move for a new trial
must, within thirty days after the decision or verdict,

file with the Clerk and serve upon the adverse party a
notice of his intention, designating therein generally
the grounds upon which the motion will be made, and
the time and place at which it will be brought on for
hearing. The time designated must be not less than
ten nor more than twenty days after service of the
notice.

§ 660. At the time specified in the notice, or at
such other time as the Court or Judge may adjourn
the hearing to, not exceeding ten days, the motion
must be heard. If the moving party fail to appear at
either time it must be dismissed, and the case will
stand as though no motion had ever been noticed or
made. If heard by the Court or Judge, it must be
decided Within ten days after the hearing.

§ 661. The Court or Judge deciding the motion
must immediately thereafter file with the Clerk of the
Court a statement in writing, under his hand, containing:

1. The name of the Court and title of the cause;

2. A reference to all pleadings, papers, bills of
exception, and aiiidavits used on the motion;

3. A statement that the pleadings, etc., so referred
to are made part of the statement;

4. The decision of the Court on the motion;

5. The grounds upon which the decision rests;

6. A statement that the party against Whom the
decision is rendered excepts to the decision.

And the statement so made and filed constitutes and
has all the force and effect of a bill-of exception to
the order granting or refusing the motion.


§ 664. When trial by jury has been had,
judgment must be entered by the Clerk, in conformity
to the verdict, Within twenty-four hours after the rendition of the verdict, unless the Court order the case
to be reserved for argument or further consideration,
or grant a stay of proceedings.

§ 665. When the case is reserved for
argument or further consideration, as mentioned in
the last section, it may be brought by either party
before the Court for argument.

§ 666. If a counterclaim, established at
the trial, exceed the plaintifff ’s demand, judgment for
the defendant must be given for the excess; or if it
appear that the defendant is entitled to any other
afrirmative relief, judgment must be given accordingly.

§ 667. In an action to recover the possession of personal property, judgment for the plaintifff
may be for the possession or the value thereof, in case

a delivery cannot be had, and damages for the detention. If the property has been delivered to the plaintifff, and the defendant claim a return thereof, judgment for the defendant may be for a return of the
property or the value thereof, in case a return cannot
be had, and damages for taking and Withholding the
same. In an action on a contract or obligation in

writing, for the direct payment of money, made pay- .

able in a specified kind of money or currency, judgment for the plaintifff, Whether it be by default or after
verdict, may follow the contract or obligation, and be
made payable in the kind of money or currency specified therein; and in all actions for the recovery of
money, if the plaintifff allege in his complaint that the
same was understood and agreed by the respective parties to be payable in a specified kind of money or ourrency, and this fact is admitted by the default of the
defendant or established by evidence, the judgment
for the plaintifff must be made payable in the kind of
money or currency so alleged in the complaint; and in
an action against any person for the recovery of money
received by such person in a fiduciary capacity, or to
the use of another, judgment for the plaintifff must be
made payable in the kind of money or currency so
received by such person.

§ 668. The Clerk must keep, with the records of the Court, a book to be called the “judgment
book,” in which judgments must be entered.

§ 669. If a party die after a verdict or
decision upon any issue of fact, and before judgment,
the Court may nevertheless render judgment thereon.
Such judgment is not a lien on the real property of the
deceased party, but is payable in the course of administration on his estate.

§ 670. Immediately after entering the judgment, the Clerk must attach together and file the following papers, which constitute the judgment roll:

1. In case the complaint be not answered by any
defendant, the summons, with the affidavit or proof of
service, and the complaint, with a memorandum indorsed upon the complaint that the default of the
defendant in not answering was entered, and a copy of
the judgment;

2. In all other cases, the pleadings, verdict of the
jury, or finding of the Court, Commissioner, or referee,
all bills of exception taken and filed, copies of orders
sustaining or overruling demurrers, a copy of the judgment, and copies of any orders relating to a change of
parties.

§ 671. Immediately after filing a judgment roll, the Clerk must make the proper entries of
the judgment, under appropriate heads, in the docket
kept by him; and from the time the judgment is docketed it becomes a lien upon all the real property of the
judgment debtor, not exempt from execution, in the
county, owned by him at the time or which he may
afterwards acquire, until the lien expires. The lien
continues for two years, unless the judgment. be previously satisfied.

§ 672. The docket mentioned in the last section is a book which the Clerk keeps in his office,
with each page divided into eight columns, and
headed as follows: Judgment debtors; judgment
creditors; judgment——time of entry; where entered
in judgment book; appeals—when taken; judgment
of appellate Court; satisfaction of judgment; when
entered. If judgment be for the recovery of money
or damages, the amount must be stated in the docket
under the head of judgment; if the judgment be for
any other relief‘, a memorandum of the general

character of the relief granted must be stated. The
names of the defendants must be entered in alphabetical order.

§ 673. The docket kept by the Clerk is
open at all times, during office hours, for the inspection of the public, Without charge. The Clerk must
arrange the several dockets kept by him in such a
manner as to facilitate their inspection.

§ 674. A transcript of the original docket,
certified by the Clerk, may be filed with the Recorder
of any other county, and from the time of the filing
the judgment becomes a lien upon all the real property of the judgment debtor, not exempt from execution, in such county, owned by him at the time, or
which he may afterwards, and before the lien expires,
acquire. The lien continues for two years, unless the
judgment be previously satisfied.

§ 675. Satisfaction of a judgment may be
entered in the Clerk's docket upon an execution returned satisfied, or upon an acknowledgment of satisfaction filed with the Clerk, made in the manner of
an acknowledgment of a conveyance of real property,
by the judgment creditor; or by the attorney, unless
a revocation of his authority is filed. \Vhenever a
judgment is satisfied in fact, otherwise than upon an
execution, the party or attorney must give such
acknowledgment, and, upon motion, the Court may
compel it, or may order the entry of satisfaction to be
made without it. '

§ 681. The party in whose favor judgment
is given, may, at any time within five years after the
entry thereof, have a Writ of execution issued for its
enforcement.

§ 682. The Writ of execution must be
issued in the name of the people, sealed with the seal
of the Court, and subscribed by the Clerk, and be
directed to the Sheriff, and it must intelligibly refer
to the judgment, stating the Court, the county where
the judgment roll is filed, and if it be for money, the
amount thereof, and the amount actually due thereon,
and if made payable in a specified kind of money or
currency, as provided in Section 667, the execution
must also state the kind of money or currency in
which the judgment is payable, and must require the
Sheriff substantially as follows:

1. If it be against the property of the judgment

‘debtor, it must require the Sheriff to satisfy the judgment, with interest, out of the personal property of
such debtor, and if sufficient personal property cannot

be found, then out of his real property; or if the judgment be a lien upon real property, then out of the real
property belonging to him on the day when the judgment Was docketed, or at any time thereafter; or if
the execution be issued to a county other than the one
in which the judgment was recovered, on the day
when the transcript of the docket was filed in the
oiiice of the Recorder of such county, stating such
day, or any time thereafter;

2. If it be against real or personal property in the
hands of the personal representatives, heirs, devisces,
legatees, tenants, or trustees, it must require the Sheriff

to satisfy the judgment, with interest, out of such '

property;

3. If it be against the person of the judgment
debtor, it must require the Sheriff to arrest such
debtor and commit him to the jail of the county until
he pay the judgment, with interest, or be discharged
according to law; '

4. If it be issued on a judgment made payable in a
specified kind of money or currency, as provided in Section 667, it must also require the Sheriff to satisfy
the same in the kind of money or currency in which
the judgment is made payable, and the Sheriff must
refuse payment in any other kind of money or currency; and in case of levy and sale of the property of
the judgment debtor, he must refuse payment from
any purchaser at such sale in any other kind of money
or currency than that specified in the execution. The
Sheriff collecting money or currency in the manner
required by this Chapter, must pay to the plaintifff or
party entitled to recover the same, the same kind of
money or currency received by him, and in case of
neglect or refusal so to do, he shall be liable on his
oiiicial bond to the judgment creditor in three times
the amount of the money so collected;

5. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real

or personal property, it must require the Sheriff to
deliver the possession of the same, describing it, to
the party entitled thereto, and may at the same time
require the Sheriff to satisfy any costs, damages, rents,
or profits recovered by the same judgment, out of the
personal property of the person against Whom it Was
rendered, and the value of the property for Which the
judgment was rendered to be specified therein if a
delivery thereof cannot be had; and if sufficient personal property cannot be found, then out of the real
property, as provided in the first subdivision of this section.

§ 683. The execution may be made returnable, at any time not less than ten nor more than
sixty days after its receipt by the Sheriff, to the Clerk
with whom the judgment roll is filed. Wllen the
execution is returned, the Clerk must attach it to the
judgment roll. 11' any real estate be levied upon, the
Clerk must record the execution and the return
thereto at large, and certify the same under his hand
as true copies, in a book to be called the “ execution
book,” which book must be-indexed, with the names
of the plaintifffs and defendants‘ in execution alphabetically arranged, and kept open at all times during
office hours for the inspection of the public, without
charge. - It is evidence of the contents of the originals
whenever they, or any part thereof, may be destroyed
or mutilated. *

§ 684. Where the judgment requires the
payment of money or the delivery of real or personal
property, the same may be enforced by awrit of execution; when it requires the performance of any other
act, a certified copy of the judgment may be served
upon the party against whom the same is rendered, or
upon the person or ofheer required thereby or by law
to obey the same. Obedience thereto may be enforced

by the Court, and after a final judgment of -partition,
the Court has power to enforce a severance of the
possession.

§ 685. In all cases other than for the recovery of money, the judgment may be enforced or
carried into execution after the lapse of five years from
the date of its entry, by leave of the Court, upon
motion, or by judgment for that purpose, founded upon
supplemental pleadings.

§ 686. Notwithstanding the death of a
party after the judgment, execution thereon may be
issued, or it may be enforced, as follows:

1. In case of the death of the judgment creditor,
upon the application of his executor or administrator,
or successor in interest;

2. In case of the death of the judgment debtor, if
the judgment be for the recovery of real or personal
property, or the enforcement of a lien thereon.

§ 687. Where the execution is against the
property of the judgment debtor, it may be issued to
the Sheriff of any county in the State. “There it
requires the delivery of real or personal property, it
must be issued to the Sheriff of the county where the
property, or some part thereof, is situated. Executions
may. be issued, at the same time, to different ‘counties.

§ 688. .All goods, chattels, monies, and
other property, both real and personal, or any interest
therein of the judgment debtor, not exempt bylaw,
and all property and rights of property, seized and
held under attachment in the action, are liable to
execution. Shares and interests in any corporation
or company, and debts and credits, and all other
property, both real and personal, or any interest in
either real or personal property, and all other property
not capable of manual delivery, may be attached on

execution, in like manner as upon Writs of attachments. Gold dust must be returned by the officer as
so much money collected, at its current value, without
exposing the same to sale. Until a levy, property is
not affected by the execution.

§ 689. If the property levied on be claimed
by a third person as his property, the Sheriff may summon from his county six persons qualified as jurors, between the parties, to try the validity of the claim. He
must also give notice of the claim and of the time of
trial to the plaintifff, who may appear,and contest the
claim before the jury. The jury and the witnesses
must be sworn by the Sheriff, and if their verdict be
in favor of the claimant the Sheriff may relinquish
the levy, unless the judgment creditor give him a sufficient indemnity for proceeding thereon. The fees of
the jury, the Sheriff, and the witnesses must be paid
by the claimant, if the verdict be against him; otherwise, by the plaintifff. Each party must deposit with
the Sheriff, before the trial, the amount of his fees,
and the fees of the jury, and the Sheriff must pay the
same to the prevailing party.

§ 690. The following property is exempt

from execution, except as herein otherwise specially
provided:

1. Chairs, tables, desks, and books, to the value of
two hundred dollars, belonging to the judgment
debtor;

2. Necessary household, table, and kitchen furniture
belonging to the judgment debtor, including one sewing machine and one piano, in actual use in a family,

or belonging to a woman; stoves, stovepipe, and stove
furniture, wearing apparel, beds, bedding, and bedsteads, and provisions, actually provided for individual
or family use, sufficient for one month;

3. The farming utensils or implements of husbandry

of the judgment debtor; also, two oxen, or two horses,
or two mules, and their harness, one cart or wagon,
and food for such oxen, horses, or mules for one
month; also, all seed grain or vegetables actually provided, reserved, or on hand for the purpose of planting or sowing at any time within the ensuing six
months, not exceeding in value the sum of two hundred dollars;

4. Tools or implements of a mechanic or artisan
necessary to carry on his trade; the nota-rial seal and
records of a Notary Public; the instruments and chest
of a surgeon, physician, surveyor, and dentist, necessary to the exercise of their profession, with their
scientific and professional libraries; the law professional libraries and office furniture of attorneys, counselors, and Judges, and the libraries of ministers of
the gospel;

5. The cabin or dwelling of a miner, not exceeding
in value the sum of five hundred dollars; also, his
sluices, pipes, hose, Windlass, derrick, cars, pumps,
tools, implements, and appliances necessary for carrying on any kind of mining operations, not exceeding
in value the aggregate sum of five hundred dollars;
and two horses, mules, or oxen, with their harness;
and food for such horses, mules, or oxen for one month,
When necessary to be used in any whim, windlass, derrick, ear, pump, or hoisting gear;

6. Two oxen, two horses, or two mules, and their
harness; and one cart or wagon, one dray or truck, one
coupee, one hack or carriage for one or two horses, by
the use of which a cartman, drayman, truckman, huckster, peddler, hackman, teamster, or other laborer habitually earns his living; and one horse, with vehicle
and harness, or other equipments, used by a physician,
surgeon, or minister of the gospel, in making his professional visits, with food for such oxen, horses, or
mules for one month;

7. Four cows, with their sucking calves, and four
hogs, with their sucking pigs;

8. Poultry not exceeding in value fifty dollars;

9. The earnings of the judgment debtor for his personal services, rendered at any time within thirty days
next preceding the levy of execution, or levy of attachment, When it appears, by the debtor’s affidavit or
otherwise, that such earnings are necessary for the use
of his family, residing in this State, supported Wholly
or in part by his labor;

10. The shares held by a member of a homestead
association duly incorporated, not exceeding in value
one thousand dollars—if the person holding the share
is not the owner of a homestead under the laws of this
State; ‘

11. All monies, benefits, privileges, or immunities
accruing, or in any manner growing. out of any. life
insurance on the life of the debtor, made in any company incorporated under the laws of this State, if the
annual premiums paid do not exceed five hundred
dollars ;

12. All fire engines, hooks and ladders, with the
carts, trucks, and carriages, hose, buckets, implements,
and apparatus thereto appertaining, and all furniture
and uniforms of any fire company or department organized under any law of this State;

13. All arms, uniforms, and accouterments required
by law to be kept by any person;

14. All Court Houses, Jails, public offices and buildings, lots, grounds, and personal property, the fixtures,
furniture, books, papers, and appurtenances belonging
and pertaining to the Court House, Jail, and public
offices belonging to any county of this State; and all
cemeteries, public squares, parks, and places, public
buildings, town halls, markets, buildings for the use or
fire departments and military organizations, and the
lots and grounds thereto belonging and appertaining,

owned or held by any town or incorporated city, or
dedicated by such town or city to health, ornament,
or public use, or for the use of any lire or military
company organized under the laws of this State; but
no article or species of property mentioned in this section is exempt from execution issued upon a judgment
recovered for its price, or upon a mortgage thereon.

§ 691. The Sheriff must execute the writ
against the property of the judgment debtor, by levying on a sufficient amount of property, if there be
sufficient; collecting or selling the things in action,
and selling the other property, and paying to the plaintifff or his attorney so much of the proceeds as will
satisfy the judgment; any excess in the proceeds over
the judgment and the Sheriff ’s fees must be returned
to the judgment debtor. VVhen there is more property of the judgment debtor than is sufficient to satisfy the judgment and the Sheritf"s fees, within the
View of the Sheriff, he must levy only on such part of
the property as the judgment debtor may indicate.

§ 692. Before the sale of property on execution, notice thereof must be given, as follows:

1. In case of perishable property: by posting written notice of the time and place of sale in three public
places of the township or city where the sale is to take
place, for such time as may be reasonable, considering
the character and condition of the property;

2. In case of other personal property: by posting a
similar notice in three public places in the township or
city where the sale is to take place, not less than five
nor more than ten days successively;

3. In case of real property: by posting a similar
notice, particularly describing the property, for twenty
days successively, in three public places of the township or city where the property is situated, and also

when the property is to be sold, and publishing a copy
thereof, once a Week for the same period, in some newspaper published in the county, if there be one;

4. “Then the judgment under which the property is
to be sold is made payable in a specified kind of money
or currency, the several notices required by this section must state the kind of money or currency in which
bids may be made at such sale, which must be the
same as that specified in the judgment.

§ 693. An officer selling without the notice
prescribed by the last section forfeits five hundred
dollars to the aggrieved party, in addition to his actual
damages; and a person willfully taking down or defacing the notice posted, if done before the sale or the
satisfaction of the judgment (if the judgment be satisfied before sale), forfeits five hundred dollars.

§ 694. All sales of propertylunder execution must be made at auction, to the highest bidder,
between the hours of nine in the morning and five in
the afternoon. After suilicient property has been sold
to satisfy the execution, no more can be sold. Neither
the officer holding the execution nor his deputy can
become a purchaser, or be interested in any purchase,
at such sale. VVhen the‘ sale is of personal property,
capable of manual delivery, it must be within view of
those who attend the sale, and be sold in such parcels
as are likely to bring the highest price; and when the
sale is of real property, consisting of several known
lots or parcels, they must be sold separately; or when
a portion of such real property is claimed by a third
person, and he requires it to be sold separately, such
portion must be thus sold. The judgment debtor, if
present at the sale, may also direct the order in which
property, real or personal, shall be sold, when such
property consists of several known lots or parcels, or

of articles which can be sold to advantage separately,
and the Sheriff must follow such directions.

§ 695. If a purchaser refuse to pay the
amount bid by him for property struck off to him at a
sale under execution, the officer may again sell the
property at any time to the highest bidder, and if
any loss be occasioned thereby the officer may recover
the amount of such loss, with costs, by motion, upon
previous notice of five days before any Court, or before any Justice of the Peace, if the same does not
exceed his jurisdiction.

§ 696. Such Court of justice must proceed
in a summary manner and give judgment, and issue
execution therefore forthwith, but the defendant may
claim a’ jury; and the same proceedings may he had
against any subsequent purchaser who refuses to pay,
and the officer may, in his discretion, thereafter reject
the bid of any person so refusing.

§ 697. The two -preceding sections must
not be construed to make the oiizicer liable for any
more than the amount bid by the second or subsequent purchaser, and the amount collected from the
purchaser refusing to pay.

§ 698. “Then the purchaser of any personal property capable of manual delivery pays the
purchase money, the officer making the sale must
deliver to the purchaser the property, and, if desired,
execute and deliver to him a certificate of the sale.
Such certificate conveys to the purchaser all the right
which the debtor had in such property on the day the
execution or attachment was levied.

§ 699. VVhen the purchaser of any personal property not capable of manual delivery pays
the purchase money, the officer making the sale must.

execute and deliver to the purchaser a certificate of
sale. Such certificate conveys to the purchaser all
the right which the debtor had in such property on
the day the execution or attachment was levied.

§ 700. Upon a sale of real property, the
purchaser is substituted to, and acquires all the right, title, interest, and claim of the judgment debtor
thereto; and when the estate is less than a leasehold
of two years’ unexpired term, the sale is absolute. In
all other cases the property is subject to redemption,
as provided in this Chapter. The officer Inust give
to the purchaser a certitic-ate of sale, containing:

1. A particular description of the real property sold;

2. The price bid for each distinct lot or parcel;

3. The whole price paid;

4. ‘When subject to redemption, it must be so
stated.

And when the judgment, under which the ‘sale has
been made, is made payable in a specified kind of
money or currency, the certificate must also show the
kind of money or currency in which such redemption
may be made, which must be the same as that speciiied in the judgment. -A duplicate of such certificate

must be filed by the officer in the office of the
Recorder of the county.

§ 701. Property sold subject to redemption,
as provided in the last section, or any part sold separately, may be redeemed in the manner hereinafter
provided, by the following persons, or their successors
in interest:

1. The judgment debtor, or his successor in interest,
in the whole or any part of the property;

2. A creditor having a lien by judgment or mortgage on the property sold, or on some share or part
thereof, subsequent to that on which the property was
sold. The persons mentioned in the second subdivision of this section are, in this Chapter, termed redemptioners.

§ 702. The judgment debtor or redemptioner may redeem the property from the purchaser
Within six months after the sale, on paying the purchaser the amount of his purchase, with twelve per
eent thereon in addition, together with the amount of
any assessment or taxes which the purchaser may have
paid thereon after the purchase, and interest on such
amount; and if the purchaser be also a creditor having a prior lien to ‘that of the redemptioner, other than
the judgment under which such purchase was made,
the amount of such lien, with interest.

§ 703. If property be so redeemed by a
redemptioner, either the judgment. debtor or another
redemptioner may, within sixty days after the last
redemption, again redeem it from the last redemptioner, on paying the sum paid on such last redemption, with four per cent thereon in addition, and
the amount of any assessment or taxes which the last
redemptioner may have paid thereon after the redemption by him, with interest on such amount, and,
in addition, the amount of any liens held by said last
redemptioner prior to his own, with interest. The
judgment under which the property was sold need not
be so paid as a lien. The property may be again, and
as often as the debtor or a redemptioner is so disposed, redeemed from any previous redemptioner,
within sixty days after the last redemption, with four
per cent thereon in addition, and the amount of any
assessments ortaxes which the last previous redemptioner paid after the redemption by him, with interest
thereon, and the amount of any liens, other than the
judgment under which the property was sold, held
by the last redemptioner previous to his own, with
interest. Notice of redemption must be given to the

Sheriff. If no redemption be made within six months
after the sale, the purchaser, or his assignee, is entitled to a conveyance; or, if so redeemed, whenever
sixty days have elapsed, and no other redemption has
been made, and notice thereof given, and the time for
redemption has expired, the last redemptioner, or his
assignee, is entitled to a Sheriff's deed. If the debtor
redeem at any time before the time for redemption
expires, the effect of the sale is terminated, and he is
restored to his estate.

§ 704. The payments mentioned in the
last two sections may be made to the purchaser or

redemptioner, or for him, to the officer who made the sale. Wheii the judgment under which the sale has
been made is payable in a specified kind of money or
currency, payments must be made in the same kind
of money or currency, and a tender of the money is
equivalent to payment.

§ 705. A redemptioner must produce to
the officer or person from whom he seeks to redeem
and serve With his notice to the Sheriff: _

1. A copy of the docket of the judgment under
which he claims the right to redeem, certified by the
Clerk of the Court, or of the county where the jut gment is docketed; or, if he redeem upon a mortgage
or other lien, a note of the record thereof, certified by
the Recorder;

2. A copy of any assignment necessary to establish
his claim, verified by the affidavit of himself, or of a
subscribing witness thereto;

3. An affidavit by himself or his agent, showing the
amount then actually due on the lien.

§ 706. Until the expiration of the time
allowed for redemption, the Court may restrain the
commission of waste on the property, by order granted
with or without notice, on the application of the purchaser or the judgment creditor. But it is not waste
for the person in possession of the property at the
time of sale, or entitled to possession afterwards, during the period allowed for redemption, to continue to
use it in the same manner in which it was previously
used; or to use in the ordinary course of husbandry;
or to make the necessary repairs of buildings thereon;
or to use Wood or timber on the property therefore; or
for the repair of fences; or for fuel in his family, while
he occupies the property.

§ 707. The purchaser, from the time of the
sale until a redemption, and al1'etIempti’oner,-Iivmabe
time of his redemption until another redemption, is
entitled to receive, from the tenant in possession, the
rents of the propert.y sold, or the value of the use and
occupation thereof. But when any rents or profits
have been received by the judgment creditor or purchaser, or his or their assigns, from the property thus
sold preceding such redemption, the amounts of such
rents and profits shall be a credit upon the redemption
money to be paid; and if the redemptioner or judgment debtor, before the expiration of the time allowed

for such redemption, demands in writing of such pur-O

chaser or creditor, or his assigns, a written and verified

statement of the amounts of such rents and profits thus received, the period for ‘redemption is extended use
days after such sworn statement is given by such purchaser or his assigns, to such redemptioner or debtor.
If such purchaser or his assigns shall, for a period of
one 1nont.h from and after such demand, fail or refuse
to give such statement, such redemptioner or debtor
may bring an action in any Court of competent jurisdiction, to compel an accounting and disclosure of such
rents and profits, and until fifteen days from and after
the ‘dual determination of such action, the right of
redemption is extended to such redemptioner or debtor.

§ 708. If the purchaser of real property
sold on execution, or his successor in interest, be
evicted therefrom in consequence of irregularities in
the proceedings concerning the sale, or of the reversal
or discharge of the judgment, he may recover the
price paid, with interest, from the judgment creditor.
If the purchaser of property at Shcritf’s sale, or his
successor in interest, fail to recover possession in consequence of irregularity in the proceedings concerning
the sale, or because the property sold was not subject
to execution and sale, the Court having jurisdiction
thereof must, after notice and on motion of such party
in interest, or his attorney, revive the original judgment in the name of the petitioner, for the amount
paid by such purchaser at the sale, with interest
thereon from the time of payment at the same rate
that the original judgment bore; and the judgment so
revived has the same force and effect as would an
original judgment of the date of the revival, and no
more.

§ 709. W’hen property, liable to an execution against
several persons, is sold thereon, and more than a due
proportion of the judgment is satisfied_ out of the proceeds of the sale of the property of one of them, or
one of them pays, without a sale, more than his proportion, he may compel contribution from the others;
and when a judgment is against several, and is upon
an obligation of one of them, as security for another,
and the surety pays the amount, or any part thereof,
either by sale of his property or before sale, he may
compel repayment from the principal. In such case,
the person so paying or contributing is entitled to the
benefit of the judgment, to enforce contribution or
repayment, if, within ten days after his payment, he
file with the Clerk of the Court where the judgment
was rendered, notice of his payment and claim to contribution or repayment. Upon a filing of such notice,

the Clerk must make an entry thereof in the margin
of the docket.

§ 714. When an execution against property of the judgment debtor, or of any one of several
debtors in the same judgment, issued to the Sheriff
of the county where he resides, or, if he do not
reside in this State, to the Sheriff of the county where
the judgment roll is filed, is returned unsatisiied, in
whole or in part, the judgment creditor, at any time
after such return is made, is entitled to an order from
the Judge of the Court, or a County Judge, requiring
such judgment debtor to appear and answer concerning his property, before such Judge, or a referee
appointed by him, at a time and place specified in
the order; but no judgment debtor must be required
to attend before a Judge or referee out of the county
in which he resides.

§ 715. After the issuing of an execution
against property, and upon proof by affidavit of a

party or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the Court, or

of a Judge thereof, or County Judge, that any judgment debtor has property which he unjustly refuses to
apply towards the satisfaction of the judgment, such
Court or Judge may, by an order, require the judgment debtor to appear at a specified time and place
before such Judge, or a referee appointed by him, to
answer concerning the same; and such proceedings
may thereupon be had for the application of the property of the judgment debtor toward the satisfaction
of the judgment as are provided upon the return of
an execution. Instead of the order requiring the
attendance of the judgment debtor, the Judge may,
upon affidavit of the judgment creditor, his agent or
attorney, if it appear to him that there is danger of
the debtor absconding, order the Sheriff to arrest the
debtor and bring him before such Judge. Upon
being brought before the Judge he may be, ordered
to enter into an undertaking, with sufficient surety,
that he will attend from time to time before the
Judge or referee, as may be directed, during the
pendency of proceedings and until the final termination thereof‘, and will not in the meantime dispose of
any portion of his property not exempt from execution. In default of entering into such undertaking he
may be committed to prison.

§ 716. After the issuing of an execution
against property, and before its return, any person
indebted to the judgment debtor may pay to the
Sheriff the amount of his debt, or so much thereof
as may be necessary to satisfy the execution; and
the Sheriff ’s receipt is a sufficient discharge for the
amount so paid.

§ 717. After the issuing or return of an
execution against property of the judgment debtor, or
of any one of several debtors in the same judgment,
or upon proof by affidavit or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the Judge, that any person or corporation
has property of such judgment debtor, or is indebted
to him in an amount exceeding fifty dollars, the Judge
may, by an order, require such person or corporation,
or any officer or member thereof, to appear at a specified time and place before him, or a referee appointed
by him, and answer concerning the same.

§ 718. Witnesses may be required to appear and testify before the Judge or referee, upon any
proceeding under this Chapter, in the same manner
as upon the trial of an issue.

§ 719. The Judge or referee may order
any property of a judgment debtor, not exempt from
execution, in the hands of such debtor or any other
person, or due to the judgment debtor, to be applied
towards the satisfaction of the judgment.

§ 720. If it appears that a person or corporation, alleged to have property of the judgment
debtor, or to be indebted to him, claims an interest in
the property adverse to him, or denies the debt, the
Court or Judge may authorize, by an order made to
that effect, the judgment creditor to institute an action
against such person or corporation, for the recovery of
such interest or debt; and the Court or Judge may,
by order, forbid a transfer or other disposition of such
interest or debt, until an action can be commenced
and prosecuted to judgment. Such order may be
modiiied or vacated by the Judge granting the same,
or the Court in which the action is brought, at any
time, upon such terms as may be just.

§ 721. If any person, party, or Witness
disobey an order of the referee, properly made, in the
proceedings before him under this Chapter, he may
be punished by the Court or Judge ordering the reference, for a contempt.

§ 726. There can be but one action for the

recovery of any debt, or the enforcement of any right
secured by mortgage upon real estate or personal prop
erty, which action must be in accordance with the
provisions of this Chapter. In such action, the Court
may, by its judgment, direct a sale of the incumbered
property (or so much thereof as may be necessary),
and the application of the proceeds of the sale to the
payment of the costs of the Court and the expenses of
the sale, and the amount due to the plaintifff ; and if
it appear from the Sheriff's return that the proceeds

are insufficient, and a balance still remains due, judgment can then be docketed for such balance against
the defendant or defendants personally liable for the
debt, and it becomes a lien on the real estate of such
judgment debtor, as in other cases on which execution
may be issued. N 0 person holding a conveyance from
or under the mortgagor of the property mortgaged, or
having a lien thereon, which conveyance or lien does
not appear of record in the proper ofBce at the time
of the commencement of the action, need be made a
party to such action; and the judgment therein rendered, and the proceedings therein had, are as conclusive against the party holding such unrecorded conveyance or lien as if he had been made a party to the
action.

§ 727. If there be surplus money remaining, after payment of the amount clue on the mortgage, lien,—or encumbrance, with costs, the Court may
cause the same to be paid to the person entitled to it,
and in the meantime may direct it to be deposited in
Court.

§ 728. If the debt for which the mortgage,
lien, or encumbrance is held is not all due, so soon as
sufficient of the property has been sold to pay the
amount due, with costs, the sale must cease; and afterwards, as often as more becomes due, for principal or
interest, the Court may, on motion, order more to be
sold. But if the property cannot be sold in portions,
Without injury to the parties, the whole may be ordered
to be sold in the f1rst instance, and the entire debt and
costs paid, there being a rebate of interest where such
rebate is proper.

§ 731. Anything which is injurious to health,
or indecent, or bffensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere with
the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, is a nuisance, and the subject of an action. Such action may
be brought by any person whose property is injuriously
affected, or whose personal enjoyment is lessened by the
nuisance; and by the judgment the nuisance may be
enjoined or abated, as well as damages recovered.

§ 732. If a guardian, tenant for life or
years, joint tenant, or tenant in common of real property, commit waste thereon, any person aggrieved by
the waste may bring an action against him therefore,
in which action there may be judgment for treble
damages.

§ 733. Any person who cuts down or carries off any wood or underwood, tree, or timber, or
girdles or otherwise injures any tree or timber on the
land of another person, or on the street or highway in
front of any person’s house, village, or city lot, or cultivated grounds; or on the commons or public grounds
of any city or town, or on the street or highway in
front thereof, without lawful authority, is liable to the
owner of such land, or to such city or town, for treble

the amount of damages which may be assessed therefore, in a civil action,'in any Court having jurisdiction.

§ 734. Nothing in the last section authorizes the recovery of more than the just value of the
timber taken from uncultivated woodland for the
repair of a public highway or bridge upon the land,
or adjoining it.

§ 735. If a person recover damages fora
forcible or unlawful entry in or upon, or detention of
any building or any cultivated ‘real property, judgment
may be entered for three times the amount at which
the actual damages are assessed.



§ 738. An action may be brought by any person 3
against another who claims an estate or interest in '

real property adverse to him, for the purpose of determining such adverse claim. '

§ 739. If the defendant in such action
disclaim in his answer any interest or estate in the
property, or suffer judgment to be taken against him
without answer, the plaintifff’ cannot recover costs.

§ 740. In an action for the recovery of real
property, where the plaintifff showsa right to recover
at the time the action was commenced, but it appears
that his right has terminated during the pendency of
the action, the verdict and judgment must be according to the fact, and the plaintifff may recover damages
for withholding the property.

§ 741. When damages are claimed for
withholding the property recovered, upon which permanent improvements have been made by a defendant,
or those under whom he claims, holding under color of title adversely to the claim of the plaintifff, in good
faith, the value of such improvements must be allowed
as a set-off against such damages.

§ 742. The Court in which an action is
pending for the recovery of real property, or for damages for an injury thereto, or a Judge thereof, or a
County Judge, may, on motion, upon notice by either
party, for good cause shown, grant an order allowing
to such party the right to enter upon the property and
make survey and measurement thereof, and of any tunnels, shafts, or drifts thereon, for the purpose of the
action, even though entry for such purpose has to be
made through other lands belonging to parties to the
action. '

§ 743. The order must describe the property, and a copy thereof must be served on the owner
or occupant; and thereupon such party may enter upon
the property, with necessary surveyors and assistants,
and make such survey and measurement; but if any

A unnecessary injury be done to the property he is liable

therefore.

§ 744. A mortgage of real property shall
not be deemed a conveyance, whatever its terms, so
as to enable the owner of the mortgage to recover
possession of the real property without a foreclosure
and sale. ‘

§ 745. The Court may, by injunction, on
good cause shown, restrain the party in possession from
doing any act to the injury of real property during the
foreclosure of a mortgage thereon; or, after a sale on
execution, before a conveyance.

§ 746. When real property has been sold
on execution, the purchaser thereof, or any person who
may have succeeded to his interest, may, after his
estate becomes absolute, recover damages for injury to
the property by the tenant in possession after sale, and
before possession is delivered under the conveyance.

§ 747. An action for the recovery of real
property against a person in possession cannot be prejudiced by any alienation made by such person, either
before or after the commencement of the action.

§ 748. In actions respecting mining claims,
proof must be admitted of the customs, usages, or
regulations established and in force at the bar or dig- ‘
gings embracing such claim; and such customs, usages,
or regulations, when not in conflict with the laws of
this State, must govern the decision of the action.

§ 752. When severaleco-tenants hold and

are in possession of real property as parceners, joint
tenants, or tenants in common, in which one or more
of them have an estate of inheritance, or for life or
lives, or for years, an action may be brought by one or
more of such persons for a partition thereof, according
to the respective rights of the persons interested
therein, and.for a sale of such property, or a part
thereof, if it appear that a partition cannot be made
Without great prejudice to the owners.

§ 753. The interests of all persons in the
property, whether such persons be known or unknown,
must be set forth in the complaint specifically and
particularly, as far as known to the plaintifff; and if
one or more of the parties, or the share or quantity
of interest of any of the parties, be unknown to the
plaintifff, or be uncertain or contingent, or the ownership of the inheritance depend upon an executory
devise, or the remainder be a contingent remainder,
so that such parties cannot be named, that fact must
be set forth in the complaint.

§ 754. No person having a conveyance of
or claiming a lien on the property, or some part of it,
need be made a party to the action, unless such conveyance or lien appear of record.

§ 755. Immediately after filing the complaint in the District Court, the plaintifff must file with
the Recorder of the county, or of the several counties
in which the property is situated, either a copy of such
complaint or a notice of the pendency of the action,
containing the names of the parties so far as known,
the object of the action, and a description of the property to be affected thereby. From the time of the
filing it shall be deemed notice to all persons.

§ 756. The summons must be directed to
all the joint tenants and tenants in common, and all
persons having any interest in, or any liens of record
by mortgage, judgment, or otherwise upon the property, or upon any particular portion thereof; and generally, to all persons unknown who have or claim any
interest in the property.

§ 757. If a party having a share or interest
is unknown, or any one of the known parties reside
out of the State, or cannot be found therein, and such

fact is made to appear by aiiidavit, the summons may
be served on such absent or unknown party by publication, as in other cases. Vlfhen publication is made,
the summons, as published, must be accompanied by
a brief description of the property which is the subject of the action.

§ 758. The defendants who have been personally served with the summons and a copy of the
complaint, or who have appeared without such service,
must set forth in their answers, fully and particularly,
the origin, nature, and extent of their respective interests in the property; a11d if such defendants claim a

lien on the property by mortgage, judgment, or otherwise, they must state the original amount and date of
the same, and the sum remaining due thereon; also,
whether the same has been secured in any other way
or not; and if secured, the nature and extent of such
security, or they are deemed to have waived their
right to such lien.

§ 759. The rights of the several parties,
plaintifff as well as defendant, may be put in issue,
tried, and determined in such action; and when a sale
of the premises is necessary, the title must be ascertained by proof to the satisfaction of the Court, before
the judgment of sale can be made; and where service
of the complaint has been made by publication, like
proof must be required of the right of the absent or
unknown parties before such judgment is rendered;
except that where there are several unknown persons
having an interest in the property, their rights may be
considered together in the action, and not as between
themselves.

§ 760. Whenever from any cause it is, in
the opinion of the Court, impracticable or highly inconvenient to make a complete partition, in the first instance, among all the parties in interest, the Court may
first ascertain and determine the shares or interest
respectively held by the original co-tenants, and thereupon adjudge and cause a partition to be made, as if
such original co-tenants Were the parties, and sole parties, in interest, and the only parties to the action, and
thereafter may proceed in like manner to adjudge and
make partition separately of each share or portion so
ascertained and allotted as between those claiming
under the original tenant to Whom the same shall have
been so set apart, or may allow them to remain tenants
in common thereof, as they may desire.

§ 761. If it appears to the Court, by the
certificate of the County Recorder or County Clerk, or
by the sworn or verified statement of any person who
may have examined or searched the records, that there
are outstanding liens or encumbrances of record upon
such real property, or any part or portion thereof, which
existed and were of record at the time of the commencement of the action, and the persons holding such
liens are not made parties to the action, the Court must
either order such persons to be made parties to the
action, by an amendment or supplemental complaint,
or appoint a referee to ascertain Whether or not such
liens or encumbrances have been paid, or if not paid,
what amount remains due thereon, and their order
among the liens or encumbrances severally held by
such persons and the parties to the action, and whether
the amount remaining due thereon has been secured
in any manner, and if secured, the nature and extent
of the security.

§ 762. The plaintifff must cause a notice to
be served, a reasonable time previous to the day for
appearance before the referee appointed as provided in
the last section, on each person having outstanding
liens of record, who is not a party to the action, to

appear before the referee at a specified time and place,
to make proof, by his own aiiidavit or otherwise, of
the amount due, or to become due, contingently or
absolutely thereon. In case such person be absent, or
his residence be unknown, service may be made by
publication or notice to his agents, under the direction
of the Court, in such manner as may be proper. The
report of the referee thereon must be made to the
Court, and must be confirmed, modified, or ‘set aside,

and a new reference ordered, as the justice of the case
may require.

§ 763. If it be alleged in the complaint
and established by evidence, or if it appear by the
evidence without such allegation in the complaint, to
the satisfaction of the Court, that the property, or any
part of it, is so situated that partition cannot be made
without great prejudice to the owners, the Court may
order a sale thereof. Otherwise, upon the requisite
proofs being made, it must order a partition, according
to the respective rights of the parties, as ascertained
by the Court, and appoint three referees therefore; and
must designate the portion to remain undivided for
the owners whose interests remain unknown, or are not
ascertained.

§ 764. In making the partition, the referees
must divide the property and allot the several portions
thereof to the respective parties, quality and quantity
relatively considered, according to the respective rights
of the parties as determined by the Court, pursuant to
the proxdsions of this Chapter, designating the several
portions by proper landmarks, and may employ a surveyor, with the necessary assistants, to aid them.

§ 765. The referees must make a report
of their proceedings, specifying therein the manner
in which they executed their trust, and describing

the property divided, and the shares allotted to each
party, with a particular description of each share.

§ 766. The Court may coniirm, change,
modify, or set aside the report, and, if necessary,
appoint new referees. Upon the report being confirmed, judgment must be rendered that such partition be effectual forever, which judgment is binding
and conclusive:

1. On all persons named as parties to the action, and
their legal representatives, who have at the time any
interest in the property divided, or any part thereof,
as owners in fee or as tenants for life or for years, or
as entitled to the reversion, remainder, or the inheritance of such property, or of any part thereof, after
the determination of a particular estate therein, and
who by any contingency may be entitled to a beneficial interest in the property, or who have an interest
in any undivided share thereof, as tenants for years or
for life.

2. On all persons interested in the property, who
may be unknown, to whom notice has been given of
the action for partition by publication;

3. On all other persons claiming from such parties
or persons, or either of them.

And no judgment is invalidated by reason of the
death of any party before final judgment or decree;
but such judgment or decree is as conclusive against
the heirs, legal representatives, or assigns of such decedent, as if it had been entered before his death.

§ 767. The judgment does not affect tenants for years less than ten to the whole of the property which is the subject of the partition.

§ 768. The expenses of the referees, including those of a surveyor and his assistants, when
employed, must be ascertained and allowed by the

Court, and the amount thereof, together with the fees
allowed by the Court, in its discretion, to the referees,
must be apportioned among the different parties to
the action, equitably.

§ 769. When a lien is on an undivided
interest or estate of any of the parties, such lien, if a
partition be made, shall thenceforth be a charge only
on the share assigned to such party; but such share
must first be charged with its just proportion of the
costs of the partition, in preference to such lien.

§ 770. When a part of the property only
is ordered to be sold, if there be an estate for life or
years, in an undivided share of the whole property,
such estate may be set off in any part of the property
not ordered to be sold.

§ 771. The proceeds of the sale of incumbered property must be applied under the direction of
the Court, as follows:

1. To pay its just proportion of the general costs of
the action; , ‘

2. To pay the costs of the reference; _

' 3. To satisfy and cancel of record the several liens
in their order of priority, by payment of the sums due
and to become due; the amount due to be verified by
affidavit at the time of payment;

4. The residue among the owners of the property
sold, according to their respective shares therein.

§ 772. Whenever any party to an action,
who holds a lien upon the property, or any part thereof,
has other securities for the payment of the amount of
such lien, the Court may, in its discretion, order such
securities to be exhausted before a distribution of the
proceeds of sale, or may order a just deduction to be
made from the amount of the lien on the property, on
account thereof.

§ 773. The proceeds of sale and the securities taken by the referees, or any part thereof‘, must
be distributed by them to the persons entitled thereto,
whenever the Court so directs. But in case no direction be given, all of such proceeds and securities must
be paid into Court, or deposited therein, or as directed
by the Court.

§ 774. When the proceeds of the sale of
any share or parcel belonging to persons who are parties to the action, and who are known, are paid into
Court, the action may be continued as between such
parties, for the determination of their respective claims
thereto, which must be ascertained and adjudged by
the Court. Further testimony may be taken in Court,
or by a referee, at the discretion of the Court, and the
Court may, if necessary, require such parties to present the facts or law in controversy, by pleadings, as
in an original action.

§ 775. All sales of real property, made by
referees, under this Chapter, must be made at public
auction to the highest bidder, upon notice published
in the manner required for the sale of real property
on execution. The notice must state the terms of sale,
and if the property or any part of it is to be sold subject to a prior estate, charge, or lien, that must be
stated in the notice.

§ 776. The Court must, in the order for
sale, direct the terms of credit which may be allowed
for the purchase money of any portion of the premises of which it may direct a sale on credit, and for
that portion of which the purchase money is required,
by the provisions hereinafter contained, to be invested

for the benefit of unknown owners, infants, or parties»

out of the State.

§ 777. The referees may take separate
mortgages and other securities for the Whole, or convenient portions of the purchase money, of such parts
of the property as are directed by the Court to be
sold on credit, for the shares of any known owner of
full age, in the name of such owner; and for the
shares of an infant, in the name of the guardian of
such infant; and for other shares, in the name of the
Clerk of the County and his successors in office.

§ 778. The person entitled to a tenancy
for life, or years, whose estate has been sold, is entitled to receive such sum as may be deemed a reasonable satisfaction for such estate, and which the person
so entitled may consent to accept instead thereof, by
an instrument in writing, filed with the Clerk of the
Court. Upon the filing of such consent, the Clerk
must enter the same in the minutes of the Court.

§ 779. If such consent be not given, filed,
and entered as provided in the last section, at or before a judgment of sale is rendered, the Court must
ascertain and determine What proportion of the proceeds of the sale, after deducting expenses, will be
a just and reasonablesum to be allowed on account of
such estate, and must order the same to be paid to
such party, or deposited in Court for him, as the case
may require.

§ 780. If the persons entitled to such
estate for life or years be unknown, the Court must
provide for the protection of their rights in the same
manner, as far as may be, as if they were known and
had appeared.

§ 781. In all cases of sales, when it appears
that any person has a vested or contingent future right
or estate in any of the property sold, the Court must

ascertain and settle the proportional value of such contingent or vested right or estate, and must direct such
proportion of the proceeds of the sale to be invested,
secured, or paid over, in such manner as to protect
the rights and interests of the parties.

§ 782. In all cases of sales of property the
terms must be made known at the time; and if the
premises consist of distinct farms or lots, they must be

_ sold separately.

§ 783. Neither of the referees, nor any
person for the benefit of either of them, can be interested in any purchase; nor can a guardian of an
infant party be interested in the purchase of any real
property, being the subject of the action, except for
the benefit of the infant. All sales contrary to the
provisions of this section are void.

§ 784. After completing a sale of the
property, or any part thereof ordered to be sold, the
referees must report the same to the Court, with a
description of the different parcels of land sold to
each purchaser; the name of the purchaser; the price
paid or secured; the terms and conditions of the sale,
and the securities, if any, taken. The report must he
filed in the office of the Clerk of the county where
the property is situated.

§ 785. If the sale be confirmed by the
Court an order must be entered, directing the referees
to execute conveyances and take securities pursuant
to such sale, which they are hereby authorized to do.
Such order may also give directions to them respecting the disposition of the proceeds of the sale.

§ 786. VVhen a party entitled to a share

of the property, or an encumbrancer entitled to have
his lien paid out of the sale, becomes a purchaser, the

referees may take his receipt for so much of the proceeds of the sale as belongs to him.

§ 787. The conveyances must be recorded
in the county where the premises are situated, and
shall be a bar against all persons interested in the
property in any way, who shall have been named as
parties in the action; and against all such parties and
persons as were unknown, if the summons was served
by publication, and against all persons claiming under
them, or either of them.

§ 788. ‘When there are proceeds of a sale
belonging to an unknown owner, or to a person without the State, Who has no legal representative within
it, the same must be invested in bonds of this State or
of the United States, for the benefit of the persons
entitled thereto.

§ 789. VVhen the security of the proceeds
of sale is taken, or when an investment of any such
proceeds is made, it must be done, except as herein
otherwise provided, in the name of the Clerk of the
county where the papers are filed, and his successors
in office, who must hold the same for the use and
benefit of the parties interested, subject to the order
of the Court.

§ 790. When security is taken by the referees on a sale, and the parties interested in such
security, by an instrument in Writing, under their
hands, delivered to the referees, agree upon the shares
and proportions to which they are respectively entitled,
or when shares and proportions have been previously
adjudged by the Court, such securities must be taken
in the names of and payable to the parties respectively
entitled thereto, and must be delivered to such parties
upon their receipt therefore. Such agreement and
receipt must be returned and filed with the Clerk.

§ 791. The Clerk in whose name a security
is taken, or by whom an investment is made, and his
successors in office, must receive the interest and principal as it becomes due, and apply and invest the same
as the Court may direct; and must deposit With the
County Treasurer all securities taken, and keep an
account in a book provided and kept for that purpose,
in the Clerk’s office, free for inspection by all persons,
of investments and monies received by him thereon,
and the disposition thereof.

§ 792. When it appears that partition cannot be made equal between the parties, according to
their respective rights, without prejudice to the rights
and interests of some of them, and a partition be
ordered, the Court may adjudge compensation to be
made by one party to another, on account of the
inequality; but such compensation shall not be required to be made to others by owners unknown, nor
by an infant, unless it appears that such infant has personal property sufiicient for that purpose, and that his
interest will be promoted thereby. And in all cases
the Court has power to make compensatory adjustment
between the respective parties, according to the ordinary principles of equity.

§ 793. When the share of an infant is sold,
the proceeds of the sale may be paid by the referee
making the sale to his general guardian, or the special
guardian appointed for him in the action, upon giving
the security required bylaw or directed by order of
the Court.

§ 794. The guardian Who maybe entitled
to the custody and management of the estate of an
insane person, or other person adjudged incapable of
conducting his own affairs, whose interest in real property has been sold, may receive, in behalf of such person, his share of the proceeds of such real property

from the referees, on executing, with sufficient sureties, an undertaking approved by a Judge of the Court,
or by a County Judge, that he will faithfully discharge
the trust reposed in him, and will render a true and just

account to the person entitled, or to his legal representative.

§ 795. The general guardian of an infant,
and the guardian entitled to the custody and management of the estate of an ‘insane person, or other person
adjudged incapable of conducting his own affairs, who
is interested in real estate held in joint tenancy, or in
common, or in any other manner so as to authorize
his being made a party to an action for the partition
thereof, may consent to a partition without action, and
agree upon the share to be set off to such infant or
other person entitled, and may execute a release in
his behalf to the owners of the shares of the parts to

which they may be respectively entitled, upon an
order of the Court.

§ 796. The costs of partition, including reasonable counsel fees, expended by the plaintifff for the
common benefit, fees of referees and other disbursements, must be paid'by the parties respectively entitled to share in the lands divided, in proportion to
their respective interests therein, and may be included and specified in the judgment. In that case they
shall be a lien on the several shares, and the judgment
may be enforced by execution against such shares, and
against other property held by the respective parties.
When, however, a litigation arises between some of
the parties only, the Court may require the expense of
such litigation to be paid by the parties thereto, or any
of them.

§ 797. The Court, with the consent of the
parties, may appoint a single referee, instead of three
referees, in the proceedings under the provisions of

this Chapter; and the single referee, when thus appointed, has all the powers and may perform all the
duties required of the three referees.

§ 798. If it appears to the Court that other actions
or proceedings have been prosecuted or defended by
any of the tenants in common, for the protection, confirmation, or perfecting of the title, or settling the
boundary, or making a survey or surveys of the estate
partitioned, the Court must allow to the parties who
have paid the expense of such necessary litigation, or’

other proceedings, all the expenses necessaril so
incurred ‘therein, 1c s all have accrued to the
common benefit o the other tenants in common, with

 ditu-Q; and the same must be allowed and taxed, and
included in the final judgment as costs are allowed,

taxed, and included in the judgment.

§ 799. If it appears to the Court that it was necessary to have made an abstract of the title to the property to be partitioned, and such abstract shall have
been procured by the plaintifff, or if the plaintifff shall
have failed to have the same made before the commencement of the action, and any one of the defendants shall have had such abstract afterwards made, the
cost of the abstract, with interest thereon from the
time the same is subject to the inspection of the respective parties to the action, must be allowed and
taxed. Whenever such abstract is produced by the
plaintifff, before the commencement of the action, he
must file with his complaint a notice that an abstract
of the title has been made, and is subject to the inspection and use of all the parties to the action, designating therein_ where the abstract will be kept for
inspection. But if the plaintifff shall have failed to
procure such abstract before commencing the action,
and any defendant shall procure the same to be made,

he shall, as soon as he has directed it to be made, file
a notice thereof in the action with the Clerk of the
Court, stating who is making the same, and_where it
will be kept when linished. The Court, or the Judge
thereof, may direct from time to time, during the

progress of the action, who shall have the custody of
the abstract. 5

§ 800. The abstract mentioned in the last preceding section may be made by any competent searcher of
records, and need not be certified by the Recorder or
other officer, but instead thereof it must be verified
by the aiizidavit of the person making it, to the effect
that he believes it to be correct; but the same may

be corrected from time to time if found incorrect,
under the direction of the Court.

§ 801. Wlienever, during the progress of the action
for partition, any disbursements shall have been made,
under the direction of the Court or the Judge thereof,
by a party thereto, interest must be allowed thereon
from the time oiimaking such disbursements.

§ 802. The writ of scire facias, the Writ of quo warranto, and proceedings by information in the nature of
quo Warranto, are abolished. The remedies obtainable
in these forms may hereafter be obtained by civil
actions, under the provisions of this Chapter.

§ 803. An action may be brought by the
Attorney General, in the name of the people of this
State, upon his own information, or upon the complaint
of a private party, against any person who usurps, intrudes into, or unlawfully holds or exercises any public oiiice, civil or military, or any franchise within this
State. And the Attorney General must bring the
action Whenever he has reason to believe that any
such office or franchise has been usurped, intruded
into, or unlawfully held or exercised by any person, or
when he is directed to do so by the Governor.

§ 804. Whenever such action is brought,
the Attorney General, in addition to the statement of
the cause of action, may also set forth in the complaint
the name of the person rightly entitled to the office,
with a statement of his right thereto; and in such
case, upon proof by affidavit that the defendant has
received fees or emoluments belonging to the office,
and by means of his usurpation thereof, an order may
be granted by a Justice of the Supreme Court, or a
District Judge, for the arrest of such defendant and
holding him to bail; and thereupon he may be arrested
and held to bail, in the same manner and with the
same effect, and subject to the same rights and liabilities, as in other civil actions Where the defendant is
subject to arrest.

§ 805. In every such action judgment may
be rendered upon the right of the defendant, and also
upon the right of the party so alleged to be entitled,

or only upon the right of the defendant, as justice may
require.

§ 806. If the judgment be rendered upon
the right of the person so alleged to be entitled, and
the same be in favor of such person, he will be entitled, after taking the oath of oiiice and executing such
official bond as may be required by law, to take upon
himself the execution of the office.

§ 807. If judgment be rendered upon the
right of the person so alleged to be entitled, in favor
of such person, he may recover, by action, the damages
which he may have sustained by reason of the usurpation of the office by the defendant.

§ 808. When several persons claim to be
entitled to the same office or franchise, one action may
be brought against all such persons, in order to try
their respective rights to such office or franchise.

§ 809. VVhen a defendant, against whom
such action has been brought, is adjudged guilty of
usurping or intruding into, or unlawfully holding any
office, franchise, or privilege, judgment must be rendered that such defendant be excluded from the office,
franchise, or privilege, and that he pay the costs of the
action. The Court may also, in its discretion, impose
upon the defendant a line not exceeding five thousand
dollars, which fine, when collected, must be paid into
the Treasury of the State.


§ 813. All steamers, vessels, and boats are
liable:

1. For services rendered on board at the request of,
or on contract with, their respective owners, masters,
agents, or consignees;

2. For supplies furnished for their use at the request of their respective owners, masters, agents, or
consignees;

3. For materials furnished for their construction,
repair, or equipment;

4. For their wharfage and anchorage within this
State;

5. For injuries committed by them to persons or

property.
The several causes of action constitute liens upon

all steamers, vessels, and boats, and have priority in
their order herein enumerated, and have preference
over all other demands; but such liens only continue
in force for the period of one year from the time the
cause of action accrued.

§ 814. Actions for damages, arising upon any
of the grounds specified in the preceding section, may
be brought directly against such steamers, vessels, or
boats.

§ 815. The complaint must designate the

steamer, vessel, or boat by name, and must be verified
by the oath of the plaintifff, or some one on his behalf.

§ 816. The summons, attached to a certified copy of the complaint, maybe served on the master, mate, or person having charge of the steamer,
vessel, or boat against which the action is brought.

§ 817. The plaintifff, at the time of issuing
the summons, or at any time afterwards, may have the
steamer, vessel, or. boat against which the action is
brought, with its tackle, apparel, and furniture, attached
as security for the satisfaction of any judgment that
may be recovered therein.

§ 818. The Clerk of the Court must issue
a writ of attachment, on the application of the plaintifff, upon receiving a written undertaking on behalf
of the plaintifff, executed by two or more sufficient
sureties, to the effect that if the judgment be rendered
in favor of the steamer, vessel, or boat, as the case
may be, he will pay all costs and damages that may
be awarded against him, and all damages that may be
sustained by such steamer, vessel, or boat from the
attachment, not exceeding the sum specified in the
undertaking, which shall in no case be less than five
hundred dollars when the attachment is issued against

a steamer or vessel, or less than two hundred dollars
when issued against a boat.

§ 819. The writ must be directed to the
Sheriff of the county within which the steamer, vessel, or boat lies, and direct him to attach such steamer,
vessel, or boat, with its tackle, apparel, and furniture,
and keep the same in his custody until discharged in
due course of law, unless the owner, master, agent, or
consignee thereof give him security, by the undertaking of at least two sufficient sureties, in an amount
sufiicient to satisfy the demand in suit, besides costs;
in which case, to take such undertaking.

§ 820. The Sheriff to whom the writ is
directed and delivered must execute it without delay,
and must, unless the undertaking mentioned in the last section is given, attach and keep in his custody the
steamer, vessel, or boat named therein, with its tackle,
apparel, and furniture, until discharged in due course
of law; but the Sheriff is not authorized by any such
writ to interfere with the discharge of any merchandise on board of such steamer, vessel, or boat, or with
the removal of any trunks or other property of passengers, or of the captain, mate, seamen, steward, cook,
or other persons employed on board.

§ 821. The owner, master, agent, or consignee of the steamer, vessel, or boat against which
the action is brought may appear and answer, or plead
to the action; and may except to the sufficiency of the
sureties on the undertaking nled on the behalf of the
plaintifff, and may require sureties to justify, as in actions against individuals upon bail on arrest.

§ 822. All proceedings in actions under
the provisions of this Chapter must be conducted in
the same manner as in actions against individuals, except as otherwise herein provided; and in all proceedings subsequent to the complaint, the steamer, vessel,
or boat may be designated as defendant.

§ 823. After the appearance in the action
of the owner, master, agent, or consignee, the attachment may, on motion, be discharged in the same
manner, and on like terms and conditions, as attachments in other cases, subject to the provisions of Section 825.

§ 824. If the attachment be not discharged,
and a judgment be recovered in the action in favor of
the plaintifff, and an execution be issued thereon, the
Sherif must sell at public auction, after publication
of notice of such sale for ten days, the steamer, vessel,
or boat, with its tackle, apparel, and furniture, or such
interest therein as may be necessary, and must apply
the proceeds of the sale as follows:

1. When the action is brought for demands other
than the wages of mariners, boatmcn, and others employed in the service of the steamer, vessel, or boat
sold, to the payment of the amount of such- wages, as
specilied in the execution;

2. To the payment of the judgment and costs, including his fees;

3. He must pay any balance remaining to the owner,
master, agent, or consignee, who may have appeared
in the action; or if there be no appearance, then into
Court, subject to the claim of any party or parties
legally entitled thereto. '

§ 825. Any mariner, boatman, or other
person employed in the service of the steamer, vessel,
or boat attached, who may Wish to assert his claim for
Wages against the same, the attachments being issued
for other demands than such Wages, may file an affidavit of his claim, setting forth the amount and the
particular service rendered, with the Clerk of the

Court; and thereafter no attachment can be discharged
upon filing an undertaking, unless the amount of such
claim, or the amount determined as provided in the
next section, be covered thereby, in addition to xthe
other requirements; and any execution issued against
such steamer, vessel, or boat, upon judgment recovered thereafter, must direct the application of the proceeds of any sale:

1. To the payment of the amount of such claims
filed, or the amount determined, as provided in the
next section, which amount the Clerk must insert in
the writ;

2. To the payment of the judgment and costs, and
Sherifi"s fees, and must direct the payment of any
balance to the owner, master, or consignee, who may
have appeared in the action; but if no appearance by
them be made therein, it must direct a deposit of the
balance in Court.

§ 826. If the claim of the mariner, boatman, or other person, filed with the Clerk of the j

Court, as provided in the last section, be not contested
within five days after notice of the filing thereof, by
the owner, master, agent, or consignee of the steamer,
vessel, or boat, against which the claim is filed, it is
deemed admitted; but if contested, the Clerk must
indorse upon the affidavit thereof a statement that it
is contested, and the grounds of the contest; and must
immediately thereafter order the matter to a single
referee for his determination, or he may hear the
proofs and determine the matter himself. The judginent of the Clerk or referee may be reviewed by the
County Judge, either in term or vacation, immediately
after the same is given, and the judgment of the
County Judge is final. On the review, the County
Judge may use the minutes of the proofs taken by
the Clerk or referee, or may take the proofs anew.

§ 827. The notice of sale published by
the Sheriff must contain a. statement of the measurement and "tonnage of the steamer, vessel, or boat, and
a. general description of her condition.


§ 832. Actions in Justices’ Courts must be
commenced, and, subject to the right to change the
place of trial (as in this Chapter provided), must be
tried:

1. If there is no Justices’ Court for the township
or city in which the defendant resides: in any city or
township of the county in which he resides;

2. VVhen two or more persons are jointly, or jointly
and severally, bound in any debt or contract, or otherwise jointly liable in the same action, and reside in
different townships or different cities of the same
county, or in different counties: in the township or
city in which any of the persons liable may reside;

3. In cases of injury to the person or property: in
the township or city where the injury was committed;

4. If for the recovery of personal property, or the
value thereof, or damages for taking or detaining the
same: in the township or city in which the property
may be found, or in which the property was taken;

5. When the defendant is a non-resident of the

county: in any township or city wherein he may be
found;

6. \Vhen the defendant is a non-resident of the
State: in any township or city i11 the State;

7. When a person has contracted to perform an
obligation at a particular place, and resides in another
county, township, or city: in the township or city in
which such obligation is to be performed, or in which
he resides;

8. Wlien the parties voluntarily appear and plead
without summons: in any township or city in the
State;

9. In all other cases: in the township or city in
which the defendant resides.

§ 833. The Court may, at any time before
the trial, on motion, change the place of trial in the
following cases:

1. When it appears to the satisfaction of the Justice
before Whom the action is pending, by affidavit of
either party, that such Justice is a material Witness for
either party;

2. When either party makes and files an affidavit
that he believes that he cannot have a fair and impartial trial before such Justice, by reason of the interest,
prejudice, or bias of the Justice;

-3. When a jury has been demanded, and either
party makes and files an affidavit that he cannot have
a fair and impartial trial, on account of the bias or
prejudice of the citizens of the township or city against
him;

4. When, from any cause, the Justice is disqualified
from acting;

5. VVhen the Justice is sick or unable to act.

§ 834. The place of trial cannot be changed, on
motion of the same party, more than once, upon any
or all the grounds specified in the first, second, and
third subdivisions of the preceding section.

§ 835. VVhen the Court orders the place of trial to
be changed, the action must be transferred for trial to
‘a Court the parties may agree upon; and if they do
not so agree, then to another J ustice’s Court in the
same county.

§ 836. After an order has been made transferring

the action for trial to another Court, the following proceedings must be had:

1. The Justice ordering the transfer must immediately transmit to the Justice of the Court to which it
is transferred, on payment by the party applying of
all the costs that have accrued, all the papers in the

action, together with a certified transcript from his
docket of the proceedings therein;

2. Upon the receipt by him of such papers, the
Justice of the Court to which the case is transferred
must issue a notice, stating when and where the trial
will take place, which notice must be served upon the
parties at least one day before the time fixed for trial.

§ 837. From the time the order changing the place
of trial is made, the Court to which the actibu is
thereby transferred has the same jurisdiction over it
as though it had been commenced in such Court.

§ 838. The parties to an action in a Justice’s Court cannot give evidence upon any question
which involves the title or possession of real property,
or the legality of any tax, impost, assessment, toll, or
municipal fine, nor can any issue presenting such question be tried by such Court; and if it appear, from the
answer of the defendant, verified by his oath, that the
determination of the action will necessarily involve
the question of title or possession to real property, or
the legality of any tax, impost, assessment, toll, or
municipal fine, the Justice must suspend all further
proceedings in the action and certify the pleadings,
and, if any of the pleadings are oral, a transcript of
the same, from his docket to the Clerk of the District
Court of the county; and from the time of tiling such
pleadings or transcript with the Clerk, the District
Court has over the action the same jurisdiction as if it
had been commenced therein.

§ 839. An action in a Justice’s Court is commenced
by filing a complaint and issuing a summons thereon,
or by the voluntary appearance and pleading of the
parties.

§ 840. The Court must indorse on the
complaint the date upon which it Was filed, and at
any time within one year thereafter the plaintifff may
have summons issued. '

§ 841. At any time after the complaint is filed the
defendant may, in writing, or by appearing and pleading, waive the issuing of summons.

§ 842. Parties in Justices’ Courts may
appear and act in person or by attorney; and any person, except the Constable by whom the summons or
jury process was served, may act as attorney.

§ 843. When a guardian is necessary, he
must be appointed by the Justice, as follows:

1. If the infant is plaintifff, the appointment must
be made before the summons is issued, upon the application of the infant, if he is of the age of fourteen
years or upwards; if under that age, upon the application of some relative or friend. The consent in
writing of the guardian to be appointed to act as such,
and to be responsible for costs if he fail in the action,
must be first filed with the Justice;

2. If the infant is defendant, the guardian must be

appointed at the time the summons is returned, or
before the pleadings. It is the right of the infant to
nominate his own guardian, if the infant is over fourteen years of age, and the proposed guardian is present and consent in writing to be appointed. Otherwise,
the Justice may appoint any suitable person who gives
such consent.

§ 844. The summo11s must be directed to
the defendant and signed by the Justice, and must
contain:

1. The title of the Court, name of the ‘county and
city, or township, in which the action is commenced,
and the names of the parties thereto;

2. A sufficient statement of the cause of action, in
general terms, to apprise the defendant of the nature
of the claim against him;

3. A direction that the defendant appear and answer before the Justice, at his office, at a time specified in the summons;

4. In an action arising on a contract, for the recovcry of money or damages only, a notice that unless
the defendant so appears and answers the plaintifff will
take judgment for the sum claimed by him (stating
it);

5. In other actions, a notice that unless defendant
so appears and answers the plaintifff will apply to the
Court for the relief demanded.

If the plaintiff has appeared by attorney, the name
of the attorney must be indorsed on the summons.

§ 845. The time specified in the summons for the
appearance of the defendant ‘must be as follows:

1. If an order of arrest is indorsed upon the summons, forthwith;

2. In all other cases, not less than three nor more
than twelve days from its date.

§ 846. If the summons is returned without being
served upon any or all of the defendants, the Justice,
upon the demand of the plaintifff, may issue an alias
summons, in the same form as the original, except
that he may iix the time for the appearance of the
defendant at a period not to exceed ninety days from
its date.

§ 847. The Justice may, within a year from the
date of the filing of the complaint, issue as many
alias summons as may he demanded by the plaintifff.

§ 848. The summons cannot be served within two
days of the time fixed therein for the appearance of
the defendant.

§ 849. The summons may be served by a Sheriff or
Constable of the county, or by any male resident of
the county over twenty-one years of age,'not a party
to the suit, and must be served and returned as prescribed in Title V, Part II, of this Code; or it may
be served by publication; and Sections 413 and 412,
so far as they relate to the publication of summons,
are made applicable to Justices’ Courts, the Word
“Justice ” being substituted for the word “Judge,”
Wherever the latter word occurs.

§ 850. The parties are entitled to one hour in which
to appear after the time fixed in the summons, but are
not bound to remain longer than that time, unless both
parties have appeared, and the Justice being present
is engaged in the trial of another cause.

§ 851. Pleadings in Justices’ Courts:

1. Are not required to be in any particular form, but
must be such as to enable a person of common understanding to know what is intended;

2. May, except the complaint, be oral or in writing;

3. Must not be verified, unless otherwise provided
in this Title;

4. If in writing, must be filed with the Justice;

5. If oral, an entry of their substance must he made
in the docket.

§ 852. The pleadings are:
1. The complaint by the plaintifff ;
2. The demurrer to the complaint;
3. The answer by the defendant;
4. The demurrer to the answer.

§ 853. The complaint in Justices’ Courts is a concise statement, in writing, of the facts constituting the
plaintifff ’s cause of action; or a copy of the account,
note, bill, bond, or instrument upon which the action
is based.

§ 854. The defendant may, at any time before
answering, demur to the complaint.

§ 855. The answer may contain a denial of any or
all of the material facts stated in the complaint, which
the defendant believes to be untrue, and also a statement, in a plain and direct manner, of any other facts
constituting a defense or counterclaim, upon which an
action might be brought by the defendant against the
plaintifff in a J ustice’s Court.

§ 856. If the defendant omit to set up a counter

> claim in the cases mentioned in the last section, neither

he nor his assignee can afterwards maintain an action
against the plaintifff therefore.

§ 857. When the answer contains new matter in

l avoidance, or constituting a defense or a counterclaim,

the plaintifff may, at any time before the trial, demur
to the same for insutiiciency, stating therein the
grounds of such demurrer.

§ 858. The proceedings on demurrer are as follows:

1. If the demurrer to the complaint is sustained, the
plaintifff may, Within such time, not exceeding two
days, as the Court allows, amend his complaint;

2. If the demurrer to a complaint is overruled, the
defendant may answer forthwith;

3. If the demurrer to an answer is sustained, the
defendant may amend his answer within such time,
not exceeding two days, as the Court may allow;

4. If the demurrer to an answer is overruled, the
action must proceed as if no demurrer had been interposed.

§ 859. Either party may, at any time before the
conclusion of the trial, amend any pleading; but if
the amendment is made after the issue, and it appears
to the satisfaction of the Court, by oath, that an adjournment is necessary to the adverse party in consequence of such amendment, an adjournment must be

granted. The Court may also, in its discretion, when
an adjournment will, by the amendment, be rendered
necessary, require, as a condition to the allowance of
such amendment, made after issue joined, the payment of costs to the adverse party, to be fixed by the
Court, not exceeding twenty dollars. The Court may
also, on such terms as may be just, and on payment of
costs, relieve a party from a judgment by default
taken against him by his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect; but the application for
such relief must be made within ten days after the

entry of the judgment, and upon an afndavit showing
good cause therefore.

§ 860. When a pleading is amended, the adverse
party may answer or demur to it within such time,
not exceeding two days, as the Court may allow.


§ 861. An order to arrest the defendant
may be indorsed on a summons issued by the Justice,
and the defendant may be arrested thereon by the

Sheriff or Constable, at the time of serving the summons, and brought before the Justice, and there detained until duly discharged, in the following cases:

1. In an action for the recovery of money or damages on a cause of action arising upon contract, express
or implied, when the defendant is about to depart from
the State, with intent to defraud his creditors;

2. In an action for a fine or penalty, or for money or
property embezzled or fraudulently misapplied, or converted to his own use by one who received it in a fiduciary capacity;

3. VVhen the defendant has been guilty of a fraud
in contracting the debt or incurring the obligation for
which the action is brought;

4. When the defendant has removed, concealed, or
disposed of his property, or is about to do so, with
intent to defraud his creditors.

But no female can be arrested in any action.

§ 862. Before an order for an arrest can be
made the party applying must prove to the satisfaction
of the Justice, by the affidavit of himself or some other
person, the facts on which the application is founded.
The plaintifff must also execute and deliver to the Justice a written undertaking, in the sum of three hundred dollars, With two or more sureties, to the effect
that if the defendant recover judgment the plaintifff
will pay to him all costs that may be awarded to the
defendant, and all damages which he may sustain by

reason of the arrest, not exceeding the sum specified
in the undertaking.

§ 863. The defendant immediately upon
being arrested, must be taken to the office of the Justice who made the order, and if he is absent or unable
to try the action, or if it appears to him by the affidavit of the defendant that he is a material witness in
the action, the officer must immediately take the

defendant before another Justice of the township or
city, if there is another, and if not, then before the
Justice of an adjoining township, who must take jurisdiction of the action, and proceed thereon, as if the
summons had been issued and the order of arrest
made by him.

§ 864. The officer making the arrest must ,
immediately give notice thereof to the plaintifff, or his 
attorney or agent, and indorse on the summons, and ‘

subscribe a certificate, stating the time of serving the
same, the time of the arrest, and of his giving notice
to the plaintifff.

§ 865. The officer making the arrest must
keep the defendant in custody until he is discharged
by order of the Justice.

§ 866. A writ to attach the property of
the defendant must be issued by the Justice at the
time of, or after issuing summons and before answer,
on receiving an afhdavit by or on behalf of the plaintifff, showing the same facts as are required to be

shown by the affidavit specified in Section 538 of this
Code.

§ 867. Before issuing the writ, the Justice
must require a written undertaking on the part of the
plaintifff, with two or more sufficient sureties, iii a sum
not less than fifty nor more than three hundred dollars,

to the effect that if the defendant recover judgment
the plaintifff will pay all costs that may be awarded to
the defendant, and all damages which he may sustain
by reason of the attachment, not exceeding the sum
specified in the undertaking.

§ 868. The writ may be directed to the
Sheriff or any Constable of the county, or the Sheriff
of any other county, and must require him to attach
and safely keep all the property of the defendant
within his county, not exempt from execution, or so
much thereof as may be sufiicient to satisfy the plaintifff’s demand, the amount of which must be stated in
conformity with the complaint, unless the defendant
give him security, by the undertaking of two sufiicient
sureties, in an amount sufficient to satisfy such demand
besides costs; in which case, to take such undertaking.

§ 869. The sections of this Code from Section 541 to Section 559, both inclusive, are applicable
to attachments issued in Justices’ Courts, the word
“Constable” being substituted for the word “Sheriff,” whenever the writ is directed to a Constable, and
the Word “Justice” being substituted for the word

“ Judge.”

§ 870. In an action to recover possession of personal
property, the plaintifff may, at the time of issuing
summons or at any time thereafter before answer, claim
the delivery of such property to him; and the sections
of this Code from Section 510 to Section 521, both
inclusive, are applicable to such claim when made in
Justices’ Courts, the powers therein given and duties

imposed on Sheriffs being extended to Constables, and
the word “ Justice ” substituted for “Judge.”

§ 871. When the defendant fails to appear and answer
or demnr, at the time specified in the summons, or
within one hour thereafter, then, upon proof of service
of the summons, the following proceedings must be
had:

1. If the action is based upon a contract, and is for
the recovery of A money or damages only, the Court
must render judgment in favor of plaintifff for the sum
specified in the summons;

2. In all other actions the Court must bear the evidence oifered by the plaintifff, and must render judgment in his favor for such a sum (not exceeding the
amount stated in the summons) as appears by such
evidence to be just. °

§ 872. In the following cases the same proceedings
must be had, and judgment must be rendered in like
manner, as if the defendant had failed to appear and
answer or demur:

1. If the complaint has been amended, and the defendant fails to answer it as amended, within the time
allowed by the Court;

2. If the demurrer to the complaint is overruled,
and the defendant fails to answer at once;

3. If the-demurrer to the answer is sustained, and
the defendant fails to amend the answer within the
time allowed by the Court.


§ 873. Unless postponed as provided in this Chapter, or unless transferred to another Court, the trial of
the action must commence at the expiration of one
hour from the time specified in the summons for the
appearance of defendant, and the trial must be continued, without adjournment for more than twenty-four
hours at any one time, until all the issues therein are
disposed of.

§ 874. The Court may, of its own motion, postpone
the trial:

1. For not exceeding one day, if, at the time fixed
by law or by an order of the Court for the trial, the
Court is engaged in the trial of another action;

2. For not exceeding two days, if, by an amendment
of the pleadings, or the allowance of time to make
such amendment or to plead, a postponement is rendered necessary;

3. For not exceeding three days, if the trial is upon
issues of fact, and a jury has been demanded.

§ 875. The Court may, by consent of the parties,
given in Writing or in open Court, postpone the trial
to a time agreed upon by the parties.

§ 876. The trial may be postponed upon the appli~
cation of either party, for a period not exceeding four
months:

1. The party making the application must prove,

by his own oath or otherwise, that he cannot, for want
of material testimony, which he expects to procure,
safely proceed to trial, and must show in what respect
the testimony expected is material, and that he has
used due diligence to procure it, and has been unable
to do so; .

2. If the application is on the part of the plaintifff,
and the defendant is under arrest, a postponement for
more than three hours discharges the defendant from
custody, but the action may proceed notwithstanding,
and the defendant is subject to arrest on execution, in
the same manner as if he had not been discharged;

3. If the application is on the part of a defendant
under arrest, before it can be granted he must execute
an undertaking, with two or more sufficient sureties,
to be approved by, and in a sum to be fixed by, the

' Justice, to the effect that he will‘ render himself

amenable to the process of the Court during the pendency of the action, and to such as may be issued to
enforce the judgment therein; or that the sureties will
pay to the plaintifff the amount of any judgment which
he may recover in the action, not exceeding the amount
specified in the undertaking. On filing the undertaking specified in this subdivision, the Justice must order
the defendant to be discharged from custody;

4. The party making the application must, if required by the adverse party, consent that the testimony of any witness of such adverse party, Who is in
attendance, may be then taken by deposition before
the Justice, and that the testimony so taken may be
read on the trial, with the same effect, and subject to
the same objections, as if the witness was produced;
—But the Court may require the party making the
application to state, upon affidavit, the evidence which
he expects to obtain; and if the adverse party thereupon admits that such evidence would be given, and
that it be considered as actually given on the trial, or

offered and overruled as improper, the trial must not
be postponed.

§ 877. No adjournment must, unless by
consent, be granted for a period longer than ten days,
upon the application of either party, except upon condition that such party file an undertaking, in an amount
fixed by the Justice, with two sureties, to be approved
by the Justice, to the effect that they will pay to the
opposite party the amount of any judgment which may
be recovered against the party applying, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking.

§ 878. Issues arise upon the pleadings when a fact
or conclusion of law is maintained by the one party
and is controverted by the other. They are of two
kinds: .

1. Of law; and,

2. Of fact.

§ 879. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the
complaint or answer, or to some part thereof.

§ 880. An issue of fact arises:

1. Upon a material allegation in the complaint controverted by the answer; and,

2. Upon new matter in the answer, except an issue
of law is joined thereon.

§ 881. An issue of law must be tried by the Court.

§ 882. An issue of fact must be tried by a jury, unless a jury is waived, in which case it must be tried
by the Court.

§ 883. A jury may be waived:

1. By consent of parties, entered in the docket;

2. By a failure of either party to demand a jury
before the commencement of the trial of an issue of
fact;

3. By the failure of either party to appear at the
time fixed for the trial of an issue of fact.

§ 884. If either party fails to appear at the time
fixed for trial, the trial may proceed at the request of
the adverse party.

§ 885. The challenges are either peremptory or for cause. Each party is entitled to three peremptory challenges. Either party may challenge for
cause on any grounds set forth in Section 602. Challenges for cause must be tried by the Justice.

§ 886. When the cause of action or counterclaim arises upon an account or instrument for the

payment of money only, the Court, at any time before
the trial, may, by an order under his hand, require the
original to be exhibited to the inspection of, and a
copy to be furnished to, the adverse party, at such
time as may be fixed in the order; or, if such order is
not obeyed, the account or instrument cannot be given
in evidence.

§ 887. If the plaintifff annex to his complaint, or file with the Justice at the time of issuing
the summons, the original or a copy of the promissory note, bill of exchange, or other written obligation
for the payment of money, upon which the action is
brought, the defendant is deemed to admit the genuineness of the signatures of the makers, indorsers, or
assignors thereof, unless he specifically deny the same
in his answer, and verify the answer by his oath.


§ 889. Judgments upon confession may be
entered up in any J ustice’s Court specified in the confession.

§ 890. Judgment that the action be dis_ issed, without prejudice to a new action, may be
Etered with costs, in the following cases:

\1,.VVhen the plaintifff voluntarily dismisses the
action before it is finally submitted ;

2. ‘When he fails to appear at the time specified in
the summons, or at the time to which the action has
been postponed, or within one hour thereafter;

3. VVhen, after a demurrer to the complaint has
been sustained, the plaintifff fails to amend it Within
the time allowed by the Court;

4. When it is objected at the trial, and appears by
the evidence, that the action is brought in the wrong
county, or township, or city; but if the objection is
taken and overruled, it is cause only of reversal‘ on
appeal, and does not otherwise invalidate the judgment; if not taken at the trial, it is waived.

§ 891. When a trial by jury has been had, judgment must be entered by the Justice at once, in conformity with the verdict.

§ 892. When the trial is by the Court, judgment
must be entered at the close of the trial.

§ 893. When a judgment is rendered in a
case where the defendant is subject to arrest and imprisonment thereon, the fact that the defendant is so
subject, must be so stated in the judgment.

§ 894. When the amount found due to
either party exceeds the sum for which the Justice is
authorized to enter judgment, such party may remit
the excess, and judgment may be rendered for the
residue.

§ 895. If the defendant, at any time before
the trial, offer in writing to allow judgment to be
taken against him for a specified sum, the plaintifff
may immediately have judgment therefore, with the
costs then accrued; but if he do not accept such offer
before the trial, and fail to recover in the action a sum
equal to the offer, he cannot recover costs; but costs
must be adjudged against him, and if he recover, be

deducted from his recovery. The offer and failure to
accept it cannot be given in evidence, nor affect the
recovery otherwise than as to costs.

§ 896. The Justice must tax and include in the
judgment the costs allowed by law to the prevailing

party.
§ 897. The Justice, on the demand of a party in
whose favor judgment is rendered, must give him an
abstract of the judgment in the following form (filling
blanks according to the facts): '

STATE or CALIFORNIA, County. , plaintifff,
vs. , defendant. In J ustice’s Court, before —,
Justice of the Peace, Township (or city), —,
187—. Judgment entered for plaintifff (or defendant)
for 8:, on the day of I certify that the
foregoing is a correct abstract of a judgment rendered
in said action in In Court, or (as the case may be) in
the Court of , ustice of the Peace, as appears by
his docket, now in my possession, as his successor in
office.

—, Justice of the Peace.

§ 898. The abstract may be filed and docketed in
the office of the County Clerk of the county in which
the judgment was rendered, and must be docketed in
the judgment docket of the County Court. The time i
of the receipt of the abstract by the Clerk must be i
noted by him thereon, and entered in the docket.

§ 899. From the time of docketing in the County )1
Clerk’s office, execution may be issued thereon by the
County Clerk to the Sheriff of any county in the State,
other than the county in which the judgment was rendered, in the same manner and with like effect as if
issued on judgments of the County Courts.

§ 900. A judgment rendered in a J ustice’s Court‘
creates no lien upon any lands of the defendant, unless
such an abstract is filed and recorded in the office of the

Recorder of the county in which the lands are situated.
When so filed and recorded, such a judgment is a lien

upon the lands of the judgment debtor situated in that
county.

§ 901. Execution for the enforcement of a
judgment of a Justice's Court may be issued by the
Justice who entered the judgment, or his successor in
office, on the application of the party entitled thereto,

at any time within five years from the entry of judgment.

§ 902. The execution must be directed to
the Sheriii or to a Constable of the county, and must

be subscribed by the Justice and bear date the day of
its delivery to the oiiicer. It must intelligibly refer to

the judgment, by stating the names of the parties,.

and the name of the Justice before Whom, and of the

county and the township or city where, and the time
when it was rendered; the amount of judgment, if it

be for money; and, if less than the whole is due, the
true amount due thereon. It must contain, in like
cases, similar directions to the Sheriff or Constable, as
are required by the provisions of Title IX, Part II, of
this Code, in an execution to the Sheriff.

§ 903. An execution may, at the request of the judgment creditor, be renewed before the expiration of the
time fixed for its return, by the word “ renewed ”

Written thereon, With the date thereof, and subscribed
by the Justice. Such renewal has the effect of an
original issue, and may be repeated as often as neces—
sary. If an execution is returned unsatisfied, another
may be afterwards issued. '

§ 904. The Sheriff or Constable to Whom
the execution is directed must execute the same in the
same manner as the Sheriff is required by the provisions of Title IX, Part II, of this Code, to proceed upon
executions directed to him; and the Constable, when
the execution is directed to him, is vested for that purpose with all the powers of the Sheriff.

§ 905. The sections of this Code, from 714 to 721,
both inclusive, are applicable to Justices’ Courts, the

,word “ Constable” being substituted, to that end, for

the word “Sheriff,” and the Word “Justice ” for the
word “Judge.”

§ 906. A Justice may punish as for contempt, persons guilty of the following acts, and no
other:

1. Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior
towards the Justice while holding the Court, tending
to interrupt the due course of a trial or other judicial
proceeding;

2. A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct, or
violent disturbance in the presence of the Justice, or

in the immediate vicinity of the Court held by him,
tending to interrupt the due course of a trial or other
judicial proceeding; °

3. Disobedience or resistance to the execution of a
lawful order or process, made or issued by him;

4. Disobedience to a subpoena duly served, or refusing to be sworn or to answer as a witness;

5. Rescuing any person or property in the custody

of an oiiicer by virtue of an order or process of the
Court held by him. '

§ 907. When a contempt is committed in
the immediate view and presence of the Justice, it
may be punished summarily; to that end an order
must be made, reciting the facts as they occurred, and
adj udging that the person proceeded against is thereby

guilty of contempt, and that he be punished astherein
prescribed.

§ 908. When the contempt is not committed in the immediate view and presence of the
Justice, a Warrant of arrest may be issued by such
Justice, on which the person so guilty may be arrested
and brought before the Justice immediately, when an
opportunity to be heard in his defense or excuse must
be given. The Justice may, thereupon, discharge
him, or may convict him of the offense.

§ 909. A Justice may punish for contempts, by fine
or imprisonment, or both; such fine not to exceed, in

any case, one hundred dollars, and such imprisonment
one day. _

§ 910. The conviction, specifying particularly the offense and the judgment thereon, must be
entered by the Justice in his docket.

§ 911. Every Justice must keep a book
denominated a “ docket,” in which he must enter:

1. The title of every action or proceeding;

2. The object of the action or proceeding; and if a
sum of money is claimed, the amount thereof;

3. The date of the summons, and the time of its
return; and if an order to arrest the defendant is
made, or a writ of attachment is issued, a statement
of the fact;

4. The time when the parties, or either of them
appear, or their non-appearance, if default is made; a
minute of the pleadings and motions; if in writing,
referring to them; if not in Writing, a concise statement of the material parts of the pleadings, and of all
motions made during the trial by either party, and his
decisions thereon;

5. Every adjournment, stating on whose application,
whether on oath, evidence, or consent, and to what
time;

6. The demand for a trial by jury, when the same is
made, and by whom made, the order for the jury, and
the time appointed for the return of the jury and for
the trial;

7. The names of the jurors who appear and are
sworn, and the names of all witnesses sworn, and at
whose request;

8. The verdict of the jury, and when received; if
the jury disagree and are discharged, the fact of such
disagreement and discharge;

.9. The judgment of the Court, specifying the costs
included, and the time when rendered;

10. The motion for a new trial, when made, and how
disposed of;

11. The issuing of the execution, when issued, and
to whom; the renewals thereof, if any, and when made,
and a statement of any money paid to the Justice, when
and by whom;

12. The receipt of a notice of appeal, if any be
given, and of, the appeal bond, if any be filed.

§ 912. The several particulars of the last section specified must be‘ entered under the title of
the action to which they relate, and (unless otherwise
inthis Title provided) at the time when they occur.
Such entries in a J ustice’s docket, or a transcript
thereof, certified by the Justice, or his successor in
office, are primary evidence of the facts so stated.

§ 913. A Justice must keep an alphabetical index to his docket, in which must be entered
the names of the parties to each judgment, with a.
reference to the page of entry. The names of the
plaintifffs must be entered in the index, in the alphabetical order of the first letter of the family name.

§ 914. Every Justice of the Peace, upon
the expiration of his term of office, must deposit with
his successor his official dockets and all papers filed in
his office, as well his own as those of his predecessors,
or any other which may be in his custody to be kept
as public records.

§ 915. If the office of ,a Justice become
vacant by his death or removal from the township or
city, or otherwise, before his successor is elected and
qualified, the docket and papers in possession of such
Justice must be deposited in the office of some other
Justice in the township, to be by him delivered to
the successor of such Justice. If there is no other
Justice in the township, then the docket and papers
of such Justice must be deposited in the office of the
County Clerk of the county, to be by him delivered
to the successor in office of the Justice.

§ 916. Any Justice with whom the docket
of his predecessor, or of any other Justice, is deposited, has and may exercise over all actions and
proceedings entered in such docket, the same jurisdiction as if originally commenced before him. In
case of the creation of a new county, or the change of
the boundary between two counties, any Justice into
whose hands the docket of a Justice formerly acting
as such within the same territory may come, is, for
the purposes of this section, considered the successor
of such former Justice.

§ 917. The Justice elected to fill a vacancy
is the successor of the Justice whose office became
vacant before the expiration of a full term. When a
full term expires, the same or another person elected
to take office in the same township or city, from that

time is the successor.

§ 918. When two or more Justices are
equally entitled, under the last section, to be deemed
the successors in office of the Justice, the County
Judge must, by a certificate subscribed by him and
filed in the office of the County Clerk, designate
which Justice is the successor of a Justice going out
of office, or whose office has become vacant.

§ 919. Justices of the Peace may issue i
subpoenas in any action or proceeding in the Courts =

held by them, and final process on any judgment
recovered therein, to any part of the county.

§ 920. The summons, execution, and every
other paper made or issued by a Justice, except a subpmna, must be issued without a blank left to be filled
by another, otherwise it is void.

§ 921. Justices of the Peace must receive
from the Sheriff or Constables of their county, all
monies collected on any process or order issued from
their Courts respectively, and all monies paid to them
in their ofiicial capacity, and must pay the same over
to the .parties entitled or authorized to receive them,
without delay.

§ 922. In case of the sickness or other disability, or necessary absence of a Justice, on a return
of a summons or at the time appointed for a trial,
another Justice of the same township or city may, at
his request, attend in his behalf, and thereupon is
vested with the power, for the time being, of the Justice before whom the summons was returnable. ,In

that case, the proper entry of the proceedings before the

attending Justice, subscribed by_ him, must be made
in the docket of the Justice before whom the summons was returnable. If the case is adjourned, the

Justice before whom the summons was returnable
may resume jurisdiction.

§ 923. Justices may in all cases require a
deposit of money or an undertaking, as security for
costs of Court, before issuing a summons.

§ 924. The prevailing party in Justices’ Courts is
entitled to costs.

§ 925. Justices’ Courts being Courts of peculiar and
limited jurisdiction, only those provisions of this Code
which are, in their nature, applicable to the organization, powers, and course of proceedings in Justices’
Courts, or which have been made applicable by special
provisions in this Title, are applicable to Justices’
Courts and the proceedings therein.

§ 929. Civil actions in Police Courts are
commenced by filing a complaint, setting forth the
violation of the ordinance complained of, with such
particulars of time, place, and manner of violation as
to enable the defendant to understand distinctly the
character of the violation complained of, and toanswer

the complaint. The ordinance may be referred to by
its title. The complaint must be verified by the oath
of the party complaining, or of his attorney or agent.

§ 930. Immediately after filing the complaint a summons must be issued, directed to the
defendant, and returnable either immediately or at any

time designated therein, not exceeding four days from
the date of its issuing. .

§ 931. On the return of the summons, the
defendant may answer the complaint. The answer
may be oral or in Writing, and immediately thereafter

the case must be tried, unless, for good cause shown,
an adjournment is granted.

§ 932. In all actions for violation of an
ordinance, where the fine, forfeiture, or penalty imposed
by the ordinance is less than fifty dollars, the trial must
be by the Court. In actions where the fine, forfeiture,

or penalty imposed by the ordinance is over iifty d'ollars, the defendant is entitled to a trial by jury.

§ 933. All proceedings in civil actions in Police
Courts must, except as in this Title otherwise provided,

he conducted in the same manner as civil actions in
Justices’ Courts.

§ 936. A judgment or order, in a civil
action, except when expressly made final by this Code,
may be reviewed as prescribed in this Title, and not

otherwise.


§ 937. An order made out of Court, without notice to the adverse party, may be vacated or
modified, without notice, by the Judge who made it;
or may be vacated or modified on notice, in the manner in which other motions are made.


§ 938. Any party aggrieved may appeal
in the cases prescribed in this Title. The party appealing is known as ‘the appellant, and the adverse party
as the respondent.

§ 939. An appeal may be taken.
1. From a final judgment in an action or special proceeding commenced in teh Court in which the same is rendered, within one year after the entry of judgment. But an exception to the decision or verdict, on the ground that it is not supported by the evidence, cannot be reviewed on an appeal from the judgment, unless the appeal is taken within sixty days after the rendition of the judgment;
2. From a judgment rendered on an appeal from an inferior Court, within ninety days after the entry of such judgment.
3. From an order granting or refusing a new trial; from an order granting or dissolving an injunction; from an order refusing to grant or dissolve an injunction; from an order dissolving or refusing to dissolve an attachment; from an order granting or refusing to grant a change of the place of trial; from any special order made after final judgment, and from an interlocutory judgment in actions for partition of real property, within sixty days after the order or interlocutory judgment is made and entered int eh minutes of the Court of filed with the clerk.

§ 940. An appeal is taken by:
1. Filing with the clerk of the court in which the judgment or order appealed from is entered or filed a notice stating the appeal from the same, or some specific part thereof; 
2. Filing, at the same time, an undertaking on appeal; and,
3. Serving a copy of the notice of appeal upon the adverse party or his attorney.

§ 941. The undertaking on appeal must
be in writing, and must be executed on the part of
the appellant, by at least two sureties, to the effect
that the appellant will pay all damages and costs
which may be awarded against him on the appeal, or
on a dismissal thereof, not exceeding three hundred

dollars; or that sum must be deposited with the Clerk.

with whom the judgment or order was entered, to
abide the event of the appeal.

§ 942. If the appeal be from a judgment
or order directing the payment of money, it does not
stay the execution of the judgment or order, unless a
written undertaking be executed on the part of the
appellant, by two or more sureties, to the effect that
they are bound in double the amount named in the
judgment or order; that if the judgment or order
appealed from, or any part thereof, be affirmed, or
the appeal be dismissed, the appellant will pay the
amount directed to be paid by the judgment or order,
or the part of such amount as to which the judgment
or order is affirmed, if affirmed only in part, and all

damages and costs which may be awarded against the

appellant upon the appeal.

VVhen the judgment or

order appealed from is made payable in a specified
kind of money or currency, the undertaking required
by this section must be drawn and made payable in

the same kind of money or currency specified in such

judgment.

§ 943. If the judgment or order appealed

from direct the assignment or delivery of documents
or personal property, the execution of the judgment
or order cannot be stayed by appeal, unless the things

required to be assigned or delivered be placed in the
custody of such officer or receiver as the Court may
appoint; or unless an undertaking be entered into on
the part of the appellant, with at least two sureties,
and in such amount as the Court, or the Judge thereof,
or County Judge, may direct, to the effect that the
appellant will obey the order of the appellate Court
upon the appeal.

§ 944. If the judgment or order appealed

from, direct the execution of a conveyance or other .

instrument, the execution of the judgment or order
cannot be stayed by the appeal until the instrument
is executed and deposited with the Clerk with whom
the judgment or order is entered, to abide the judgment of the appellate Court. “

§ 945. If the judgment or order appealed
from, direct the sale or delivery of possession of real
property, the execution of the same cannot be stayed,
unless a written undertaking be executed on the part
of the appellant, with two or more sureties, to the
effect that during the possession of such property by
the appellant, he will not commit, or suffer to be committed, any Waste thereon, and that if the judgment
be athrmed, or the appeal dismissed, he will pay the
value of the use and occupation of the property from
the time of the appeal until the delivery of possession
thereof, pursuant‘ to the judgment or order, not exceeding a sum to be fixed by the Judge of the Court by
which the judgment was rendered or order made, and
which must be specified in the undertaking. When
the judgment is for the sale of mortgaged premises,
and -the payment of a deficiency arising upon the sale, '
the undertaking must also provide for the payment of
such deficiency.

§ 946. Whenever an appeal is perfected,
as provided in the preceding sections of this Chapter,
it stays all further proceedings in the Court below upon
the judgment or order appealed from, or upon the
matters embraced therein; but the Court below may
proceed upon any other matter embraced in the action
and not affected by the order appealed from. And
the Court below may, in its discretion, dispense with
or limit the security required by this Chapter, when
the appellant is an executor, administrator, trustee, or
other person acting in another’s right. An appeal
from an order dissolving an attachment does not continue in force an attachment, unless an undertaking be
executed and filed on the part of the appellant, by at
least two sureties, in double the amount of the debt
claimed by him, that the appellant will pay all costs
and damages which the respondent may sustain by
reason of the attachment, in case the order of the
Court below be sustained, and unless within five days
after the entry of the order appealed from, and such
appeal be perfected.

§ 947. The undertakings prescribed by Sections 941,

942, 943, and 945, may be in one instrument or several,
at the option of the appellant.

§ 948. The adverse party may except to
the sufficiency of the sureties to the undertaking or
undertakings mentioned in Sections 941, 942, 943, and
945, at any time within thirty days after the filing of
such undertaking; and unless they or other sureties,
within twenty days after the appellant has been served
with notice of such exception, justify before a Judge
of the Court below, a County Judge or County Clerk,
upon five days notice to the appellant, execution of
the judgment or decree appealed from is no longer
stayed; and in all cases where an undertaking is
required on appeal by the provisions of this Title, a

deposit in the Court below of the amount of the judg!
ment appealed from, and three hundred dollars in
addition, is equivalent to filing the undertaking; and
in all cases the undertaking or deposit may be waived
by the written consent of the respondent.

§ 949. In cases not provided for in Sections 942, 943, 944, and 9-15, the perfecting of an appeal, by giving the undertaking or making the deposit
mentioned in Section 941, stays proceedings in the

' ' Court below upon the judgment or order appealed

from, except where it directs the sale of perishable
property, in which case the Court below may order
the property to be sold, and the proceeds thereof to
be deposited to abide the judgment of the appellate
Court.

§ 950. On an appeal from a final judgment, the appellant must furnish the Court with a

copy of the notice of appeal, the pleadings, or
amended pleadings, which form the issues tried in the
case, the judgment, bills of exception, and such other
parts of the judgment roll, and no more, as are necessary to present or explain the points relied on.

§ 951. On appeal from a judgment rendered on an appeal, or from an order, except an order
granting or refusing a new trial, the appellant must
furnish the Court with a copy of the notice of appeal,
the judgment or order appealed from, and of the bill
of exceptions relating thereto.

§ 952. On an appeal from an order granting or refusing a new trial, the appellant must furnish the’Courf;
with a copy" of the notice of motion for new trial, and
of appeal, and of the statement provided for in Section
661, and of all the pleadings, papers, bills of exception,
and afhdavits referred to and made part of such statement.

§ 953. The copies provided for in the last
three sections must be certified to. be correct by the
Clerk or the attorneys, and must be accompanied with
a certificate of the Clerk that an undertaking on
appeal, in due form, has been properly filed.

§ 954. If the appellant fails to. furnish the
requisite papers, the appeal may be dismissed; but no
appeal can be dismissed for insufliciency of the undertaking thereon, if a good and sufficient undertaking,
approved by a Justice of the Supreme Court, be filed
in the Supreme Court before the bearing upon motion
to dismiss the appeal.

§ 955. The dismissal of an appeal is in effect an
afiirmance of the judgment or order appealed from,
unless the dismissal is expressly made without prejudice to another appeal.

§ 956. Upon an appeal from a judgment, the Court
may review the verdict or decision, if excepted to, or
any intermediate order, if excepted to, which involves
the merits or necessarily affects the judgment.

§ 957. When the judgment or order is reversed or
modiiied, the appellate Court may make complete restitution of all property and rights lost by the erroneous
judgment or order; and when it appears to the appellate Court that the appeal was made for delay, it may
add to the costs such damages as may be just.

§ 958. When judgment is rendered upon
the appeal, it must be certified by the Clerk of the
Supreme Court to the Clerk with Whom the judgment
roll is filed, or the order appealed from is entered. In
cases of appeal from the judgment, the Clerk with
whom the roll is filed must attach the certificate tothe
judgment roll, and enter a minute of the judgment of
the Supreme Court on the docket, against the original

entry. In cases of appeal from an order, the Clerk
must enter at length in the records of the Court the
certificate received, and minute against the entry of
the order appealed from, a reference to the certificate,
with a brief statement that such order has been

aliirmed, reversed, or modified, by the Supreme Court
on appeal.

§ 959. The provisions of this Chapter do not apply
to appeals to County Courts.

§ 963. An appeal may be taken to the
Supreme Court, from the District Courts, in the following cases:

1. From a final judgment entered in an action or
special proceeding commenced in those Courts, or
brought into those Courts from other Courts;

2. From an order granting or refusing a new trial;
from an order granting or dissolving an injunction;
from an order refusing to grant or dissolve an injunction; from an order dissolving, or refusing to dissolve,
an attachment; from an order changing, or refusing to
change, the place of trial; from any special order
made after final judgment, and from such interlocutory

judgment in actions for partition as determines the

rights and interests of the respective parties, and

directs partition to be made.

§ 966. An appeal may be taken to the
Supreme Court, from the County Courts, in the following cases:

1. From a final judgment in an action of forcible
entry and detainer; in an action to prevent or abate a
nuisance; in a proceeding in insolvency; and in any
special proceeding;

2. From an order granting or refusing a new trial;
from an order granting or dissolving, or an order refusing to grant or dissolve, an injunction; from an
order changing, or refusing to change, the place of

trial; and from any special order made after final judgment in the cases in this section before enumerated.

§ 969. An appeal may be taken to the Supreme
Court, from a judgment or order of the Probate Court:

1. Granting or revoking letters testamentary, or of
administration or of guardianship;

2. Admitting, or refusing to admit, a will to probate;

3. Against or in favor of the validity of a will, or
revoking the probate thereof;

4. Against or in favor of setting apart property, or
making an allowance for a Widow or child;

5. Against or in favor of directing the partition, sale, :

- or conveyance of real property;

6. Settling an account of an executor or administrator, or guardian;

7. Refusing, allowing, or directing the distribution
or partition of an estate, or any part thereof, or the
payment of a debt, claim, legacy, or distributive share; P

8. Overruling motion for a new trial;

9. Confirming report of appraiser setting apart the
homestead.

§ 970. When an executor or administrator who has
given an official undertaking appeals from a judgment
or order of the Probate Court made in the proceedings
had upon the estate of which he is administrator or
executor, his official undertaking stands in the place of
an undertaking on appeal, and the sureties therein are
liable as on such undertaking.

§ 971. When the order or decree appointing an
executor or administrator, or guardian, is reversed on
appeal, all lawful acts in administration upon the estate,
performed by such executor or administrator, or guardian, if he has qualified, are as valid as if such order
or decree had been amrmed.

§ 974. Any party dissatisfied with a judg, ment rendered in a civil action in a Police or Justice’s

Court may appeal therefrom to the County Court of
the county, at any time within thirty days after the
rendition of the judgment. The appeal is taken by
filing a notice of appeal with the Justice or Judge, and
serving a copy on the adverse party. The notice-must
state Whether the appeal is taken from the whole or a
part of the judgment, and if from a part, what part,
and whether the appeal is taken on questions of law or
fact, or both.

§ 975. When aparty appeals to the County
Court on questions of law alone, he must, Within ten
days from the rendition of judgment, prepare a statement of the case, and file the same with the Justice or
Judge. The statement must contain the grounds upon
which the party intends to rely on the appeal, and so
much of the evidence as may be necessary to explain
the grounds, and no more. Within ten days after he
receives notice that the statement is nled, the adverse
party, if dissatisfied with the same, may file amendments. The proposed statement and amendments must
be settled by the Justice or Judge, and if no amendments be filed, the original statement stands as adopted.
The statement thus adopted, or as settled by the Justice
or Judge, with a copy of the docket of the Justice or
Judge, and all motions filed with him by the parties
during the trial, and the notice of appeal, may be used
on the hearing of the appeal before the County Court.

§ 976. When a party appeals to the County
Court on questions of fact, or on questions of both law
and fact, no statement need be made, but the action
must be tried anew in the County Court.

§ 977. Upon receiving the notice of appeal,
and on payment of the fees of the Justice or Judge,

and filing an undertaking as required in the next section, and after settlement or adoption of statement, if
any, the Justice or Judge must, within five days, transmit to the Clerk of the County Court: if the appeal
be on questions of law alone, a certified copy of his
docket, the statement as admitted or as settled, the
notice of appeal and the undertaking filed; or, if
the appeal he on questions of fact, or both law and
fact, a certified copy of his docket, the pleadings, all
notices, motions, and other papers nled in the cause,

the notice of appeal and the undertaking filed; and

the Justice or Judge may be compelled by the County

Court, by an order entered upon motion, to transmit

such papers, and may be fined for neglect or refusal to

transmit the same. A certified copy of such order

may be served on the Justice or Judge by the party

or his attorney. In the County Court, either party

may have the benefit of all legal objections made in

the J ustice’s or Police Court.

§ 978. An appeal from a J ustice’s or Police
Court is not effectual for any purpose, unless an under be filed, with two or more sureties, in the sum
of one hundred dollars, for the payment of the costs
on the appeal; or, if a stay of proceedings be claimed,
in a sum equal to twice the amount of the judgment,
including costs, when the judgment is for the payment
of money; or twice the value of the property, including costs, when the judgment is for the recovery of
specific personal property, and must be conditioned,
when the action is for the recovery of money, that the
appellant will pay the amount of the judgment appealed from and all costs, if the appeal be withdrawn
or dismissed, or the amount of any judgment and all

costs that may be recovered against him in the action
in the County Court. When the action is for the

recovery of specific personal property, the undertaking must be conditioned that the appellant will pay
the judgment and costs appealed from, and obey the
order of the Court made therein, if the appeal be
withdrawn or dismissed, or any judgment and costs
that may be recovered against him in said action in
the County Court, and will obey any order made by
the Court therein. A deposit of the amount of the
judgment, including all costs appealed from, or of the
value of the property, including all costs in actions for
the recovery of specific personal property, with the

Justice or Judge, is equivalent to the filing of the

undertaking; and in such cases the Justice or Judge
must transmit the money to the Clerk of the County
Court, to be by him paid out on the order of the
Court. The adverse party may except to the sumciency of the sureties Within five days after the filing
of the undertaking, and unless they or other sureties
justify before the Justice or Judge before whom the
appeal is taken, within five days thereafter, upon
notice to the adverse party, to the amounts stated in
their affidavits, the appeal must be regarded as if no
such undertaking had been given.

§ 979. If an execution be issued, on the
filing of the undertaking staying proceedings, the Justice or Judge must, by order, direct the officer to stay
all proceedings on the same. Such officer must, upon
payment of his fees for services rendered on the execution, thereupon relinquish all property levied upon
and deliver the same to the judgment debtor, together
with all monies collected from sales or otherwise. If
his fees be not paid, the officer may retain so much of

the property or proceeds thereof as may be necessary
to pay the same.

§ 980. Upon an appeal heard upon a statement of the case, the County Court may review all

orders affecting the judgment appealed from, and
may set aside or confirm, or modify, any or all of the
proceedings subsequent to and dependent upon such
judgment, and may, if necessary or proper, order a
new trial. When the action is tried anew, on appeal,
the trial must be conducted in all respects as trials in
the District Court. The provisions of this Code as to
changing the place of trial, and all the provisions as
to trials in the District Court, are applicable to trials
on appeal in the County Court. For a failure to prosecute an appeal, or unnecessary delay in bringing it to
a hearing, the County Court, after notice, may order
the appeal to be dismissed. Judgments rendered in
the County Court ‘on appeal have the same force and
effect, and may be enforced in the same manner, as
judgments in actions commenced in-the District Court.


§ 989. When a judgment is recovered
against one or more of several persons, jointly indebted
upon an obligation, by proceeding as provided in Section 414, these who were not originally served with
the summons, and did not appear to the action, may
be summoned to show cause why they should not be
bound by the judgment, in the same manner as though
they had been originally served with the summons.

§ 990. The summons, as .provided in the
last section, must describe the judgment, and require
the person summoned to show cause why he should
not be bound by it, and must be served in the same
manner, and returnable within the same time, as the

original summons. It is not necessary to file a new
complaint.

§ 991. The summons must be accompanied
by an affidavit of the plaintiffl, his agent, representae
tive, or attorney, that the judgment, or some part
thereof, remains unsatisfied, and must specify the
amount due thereon.

§ 992. Upon such summons, the defendant
may answer within the time specified therein, denying
the judgment, or setting up any defense which may
have arisen subsequently; or he may deny his liability
on the bbligation upon which the judgment was recovered, except a discharge from such liability by the
Statute of Limitations.

§ 993. If the defendant, in his answer,
deny the judgment, or set up any defense which may
have arisen subsequently, the summons, with the affidavit annexed, and the answer, constitute the written

allegations in the case; if he deny his liability on the
obligation upon which the judgment was recovered, a
copy of the original complaint and judgment, the summons, with the affidavit annexed, and the answer, constitute such written allegations.

§ 994. The issues formed may be tried as i

in other cases; but when the defendant denies, in his
answer, any liability on the obligation upon which the
judgment was rendered, if a verdict be found against
him, it must be for not exceeding the amount remaining unsatislied on such original judgment, with interest thereon.

§ 997. The defendant may, at any time
before the trial or judgment, serve upon the plaintifff
an oifer to allow judgment to be taken against him for
the sum or property, or to the effect therein specified.
If the plaintifff accept the offer, and give -notice thereof
within five days, he may file the summons, complaint,
and offer, with an affidavit of notice of acceptance, and
the Clerk must thereupon enter judgment accordingly.
If the notice of acceptance be not given, the offer is
to be deemed withdrawn, and cannot be given in evidence; and if the plaintifff fail to obtain a more favorable judgment, he cannot recover costs, but must pay
the defendant’s costs from the time of the offer.

§ 1000. Any Court in which an action is
pending, or a Judge thereof or a County Judge, may,
upon notice, order either party to give to the other,
Within a specified time, an inspection and copy, or
permission to take a copy, of any book, document, or
paper in his possession, or under his control, containing evidence relating to the merits of the action or
the defense therein. If compliance with the order be
refused, the Court may exclude the book, document,
or paper from being given in evidence; or, if wanted
as evidence by the party applying, may direct the
jury to presume it to be such as he alleges it_to be;
and the Court may also punish the party refusing, for
a contempt. This section is not to be construed to
prevent a party from compelling another to produce
books, papers, or documents when he is examined as
a Witness.

§ 1003. Every direction of a Court or
Judge, made or entered in Writing, and not included
in a judgment, is denominated an order. An application for an order is a motion.

§ 1004. Motions must be made in the
county in which the action is pending, or in an adjoining county in the same judicial district. Orders made
out of Court may be made by the Judge of the Court
in any part of the State.

§ 1005. When a written notice of a motion
is necessary, it must be given, if the Court is held in
the same district with both parties, live days before
the time appointed for the hearing; otherwise, ten
days. When the notice is served by mail, the number
of days before the hearing must be increased one day
for every twenty-five miles of distance between the

‘ place of deposit and the place of service; such

increase, however, not to exceed in all ninety days;
but the Court, or Judge, or County Judge, may prescribe a shorter time.

§ 1006. When a notice of motion is given,
or an order to show cause is made returnable before a
Judge out of Court, and at the time fixed for the motion,
or on the return day of the order, the Judge is unable
to hear the parties, the matter may be transferred by
his order to some other Judge, before whom it might
originally have been brought.

§ 1007. Whenever an order for the payment of a
sum of money is made by a Court, pursuant to the
provisions of this Code, it may be enforced by execution in the same manner as if it were a judgment.

§ 1010. Notices must be in writing, and
notices and other papers may be served upon the party
or attorney in the manner prescribed in this Chapter,
when not otherwise provided by this Code.

§ 1011. The service may be personal, by
delivery to the party or attorney on whom the service
is required to be made, or it may be as follows:

1. If upon an attorney, it may be made during his
absence from his office, by leaving the notice or other
papers with his clerk therein, or with a person having
charge thereof; or when there is no person in the office,
by leaving them, between the hours of eight in the
morning and six in the afternoon, in a conspicuous
place in the office; or if it be not open so as to admit
of such service, then by leaving them at the attorney's
residence, with some person of suitable age and discretion; and if his residence be not known, then by
putting the same, inclosed in an envelop, into the Post
Office, directed to such attorney;

2. If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the
notice or other paper at his residence, between the
hours of eight in the morning and six in the evening,
with some person of suitable age and discretion; and
if his residence be not known, by putting the same,

inclosed in an envelop, into the Post Office, directed
to such party.

§ 1012. Service by mail A may be made
where the person making the service, and the person
on whom it is to be made, reside in different places,
between which there is a regular communication by
mail.

§ 1013. In case of service by mail, the
notice or other paper must be deposited in the Post
Office, addressed to the person on whom it is to be
served, at his place of residence, and the postage paid.
The service is complete at the time of the deposit; but
if within a given number of days after such service a
right may be exercised, or an act is to be done by the
adverse party, the time within which such right may
be exercised, or act be done, is extended one day for
every twenty-five miles distance between the place of
deposit and the place of address; such extension, however, not to exceed ninety days in all.

§ 1014. A defendant appears in an action
when he answers, demurs, or gives the plaintifff written
notice of his appearance, or when an attorney gives
notice of appearance for him. After appearance, a
defendant or his attorney is entitled to notice of all
subsequent proceedings of which notice is required to
be given. But where a defendant has not appeared,
service of notice or papers need not be made upon

him unless he is imprisoned for want of bail.

§ 1015. When a plaintifff or a defendant,
who has appeared, resides out of the State, and has no
attorney in the action or proceeding, the service may
be made on the Clerk for him. But in all cases where
a party has an attorney in the action or proceeding,
the service of papers, when required, must be upon

the attorney instead of the party, except of subpcsnas,

of writs, and other process issued in the suit, and of i

papers to bring him into contempt.

§ 1016. The foregoing provisions of this Chapter do not apply to the service of a summons or
other process, or of‘ any paper to bring a party into
contempt.

§ 1017. Any summons, Writ, or order in any civil
suit or proceeding, and all other papers requiring
service, may be transmitted by telegraph for service
in any place, and the telegraphic copy of such writ,
or order, or paper so transmitted, may be served or
executed by the officer or person to whom it is sent
for that purpose, and returned by him, if any return
be requisite, in the same manner, and With the same
force and effect in all respects, as the original thereof
might be if delivered to him, and the officer or person serving or executing the same has the same
authority, and is subject to the same liabilities, as if
the copy were the original. The original, when awrit
or order, must also be filed in the Court from which it
was issued, and a certified copy thereof must be preserved in the telegraph office from which it was sent.
In sending it, either the original or the certified copy
may be used by the operator for that purpose. Whenever any document to be sent by telegraph bears a
seal, either private or official, it is not necessary for
the operator, in sending the same, to telegraph a

description of the seal, or any Words or device '

thereon, but the same may be expressed in the telegraphic copy by the letters “L. 8.,” or by the word
“seal.”

§ 1021. The measure and mode of compensation of attorneys and counselors at law is left to
the agreement, express or implied, of the parties; but
parties to actions or proceedings are entitled to costs
and disbursements, as hereinafter provided.

§ 1022. Costs are allowed of course to
the plaintifff, upon a judgment in his favor, in the following cases:

1. In an action for the recovery of real property;

2. In an action to recover the possession of personal
property, where the value of the property amounts to
three hundred dollars or over; such value shall be

determined by the jury, Court, or referee by whom
the action is tried;

3. In an action for the recovery of money or damages, when plaintifff recovers three hundred dollars or
over;

4. In a special proceeding;

5. In an action which involves the title or possession
of real estate, or the legality of any tax, impost, assessment, toll, or municipal time.

§ 1023. When several actions are brought
on one bond, undertaking, promissory note, bill of
exchange, or other instrument in writing, or in any
other case for the same cause of action, against several parties who might have been joined as defendants
in the same action, no costs can be allowed to the
plaintifff in more than one of such actions, which may

be at his election, if the party proceeded against in .

the other actions were, at the commencement of the
previous action, openly within this State; but the disbursements of the plaintifff must be allowed to him in
each action.

§ 1024. Costs must be allowed of course
to the defendant upon a judgment in his favor in the
actions mentioned in Section 1022, and in special proceedings.

§ 1025. In other actions than those mentioned, in Section 1022, costs may be allowed or not,
and, if allowed, may be apportioned between the parties, on the same or adverse sides, in the discretion of

\the Court; but no costs can be allowed in an action
i‘{or the recovery of money or damages, when the plaint{‘;flE' recovers less than three hundred dollars, nor in an

acaion to recover the possession of personal property, 4

whéxn the value of the property is less than three hundyed‘ dollars.

§ 1026. When there are several defendants
in the actions mentioned in Section 1022, not united
in interest, and making separate defenses by separate
answers, and plaintifff fails to recover judgment against
all, the Court must award costs to such of the defendants as have judgment in their favor.

§ 1027. In the following cases the costs of
appeal is in the discretion of the Court:
1. When a new trial is ordered;
2. When a judgment is modified.

§ 1028. The fees of referees are five dollars to each for every day spent in the business of the
reference; but the parties may agree, in writing, upon
any other rate of compensation, and thereupon such
rates shall be allowed. '

§ 1029. When an application is made to a
Court or referee to postpone a trial, the payment of
costs occasioned by the postponement may be imposed,
in the discretion of the Court or referee, as a condition
of granting the same.

§ 1030. When, in an action for the recovery of money only, the defendant alleges in his answer
that before the commencement of the action be tendered to the plaintifff the full amount to which he was
entitled, and thereupon deposits in Court, for plaintifff,
the amount so tendered, and the allegation be found
_to be true, the plaintifff cannot recover costs, but must
pay costs to the defendant.

§ 1031. In an action prosecuted or defended
by an executor, administrator, trustee of express trust,

or a person expressly authorized by statute, costs may 0

be recovered as in action by and against a person
prosecuting or defending in his own right; but such
costs must, by the judgment, be made chargeable only

upon the estate, fund, or party represented, unless the
Court directs the same to be paid by the plaintifff or
defendant, personally, for mismanagement or bad faith
in the action or defense.

§ 1032. When the decision of a Court of
inferior jurisdiction in a special proceeding is brought
before a Court of higher jurisdiction for a review, in
any other way than by appeal, the same costs must be
allowed as in cases on appeal, and may be collected
by execution, or in such manner as the Court may
direct, according to the nature of the case.

§ 1033. The party in whose favor judgment is rendered, and who claims his costs, must deliver to the Clerk of the Court, within two days after
the verdict or decision of the Court, a memorandum
of the items of his costs and necessary disbursements
in the action or proceeding, which memorandum must
be verified by the oath of the party or his attorney,
stating that the items are correct, and that the disbursements have been necessarily incurred in the
action or proceeding.

§ 1034. VVhenever costs are awarded to a
party by an appellate Court, if he claims such costs,
he must, within thirty days after the remittitur is filed
with the Clerk below, deliver to such Clerk a memorandum of his costs, verified as prescribed by the preceding section, and thereafter he may have an execution
therefore as upon a judgment.

§ 1035. The Clerk must include in the
judgment entered up by him, any interest on the verdict or decision of the Court, from the time it was
rendered or made, and the costs, if the same have
been taxed or ascertained; and he must, Within two
days after the same are taxed or ascertained, if not
included in the judgment, insert the same in a blank

left in the judgment for that purpose, and must make
a similar insertion of the costs in the copies and docket
of the judgment. '

§ 1036. When the plaintifff in an action
resides out of the State, or is a foreign corporation,
security for the costs and charges, which may be
awarded against such plaintifff, may be required by
the defendant. When required, all proceedings in the
action must be stayed until an undertaking, executed
by two or more persons, is filed with the Clerk, to the
effect that they will pay such costs and charges as may
be awarded against the plaintifff by judgment, or in
the progress of the action, not exceeding the sum of
three hundred dollars. A new or an additional undertaking may be ordered by the Court or Judge, upon
proof that the original undertaking is insufficient security, and proceedings in the action stayed until such
new or additional undertaking is executed and filed.

§ 1037. After the lapse of thirty days from
the service of notice that security is required, or of

-an order for new or additional security, upon proof

thereof, and that no undertaking as required has been
filed, the Court or Judge may order the action to be
dismissed.

§ 1038. When the State is a party, and costs are
awarded against it, they must be paid out of the State
Treasury.

§ 1039. When a county is a party, and costs are
awarded against it, they must be paid out of the
County Treasury.


§ 1045. If an original pleading or paper be lost, the
Court may authorize a copy thereof to be filed and

used instead of the original.

§ 1046. An affidavit, notice, or other paper,
without the title of the action or proceeding in which
it is made, or with a defective title, is as valid and
effectual for any purpose as if duly entitled, if it intelligibly refer to such action or proceeding.

§ 1047. Successive actions may be maintained upon the same contract or transaction, whenever,
after the former action, a new cause of action arises
therefrom.

§ 1048. Whenever two or more actions
are pending at one time between the same parties and
in the same Court, upon causes of action which might
have been joined, the Court may order the actions to

be consolidated.

§ 1049. An action is deemed to be pending from A

the time of its commencement until its final determination upon appeal, or until the time for appeal has
passed, unless the judgment is sooner satisfied.

§ 1050. An action may be brought by one

person against another for the purpose of determining

an adverse claim, which the latter makes against the
former for money or property upon an alleged obliga
tion; and also against two or more persons, for the
purpose of compelling one to satisfy a debt due to the
other, for which plaintifff is bound as a surety.

§ 1051. On the trial of an action in a
Court of record, if there is no shorthand, reporter of
the Court in attendance, either party may require the
Clerk to take down the testimony in writing.

§ 1052. The Clerk must keep among the
records of the Court a register of actions. He must
enter therein the title of the action, with brief notes

under it, from time to time, of all papers filed and
proceedings had therein.

§ 1053. When there are three referees, or
three arbitrators, all must meet, but two of them may
do any act which might be done by all.

§ 1054. When the act to be done relates j

to the pleadings in the action, or the undertakings to
be filed, or the justification of sureties, or the service
of notices, other than of appeal, the time allowed by
this Code may, before the time expires, be extended,
upon good cause shown, by the Court in which the
action is pending, or the Judge thereof, but such extension cannot exceed twenty days.

§ 1055. If an action is brought against a

Sheriff for an act done by virtue of his office, and he A

gives written notice thereof to the sureties on any
bond of indemnity received by him, the judgment
recovered therein is conclusive evidence of his right
to recover against such sureties; and the Court, or
Judge in vacation, may, on motion, upon notice of five
days, order judgment to be entered up against them
for the amount so recovered, including costs.

§ 1056. In the Counties of Monterey, San
Luis Obispo, Santa Barbara, Los Angeles, and- San
Diego, if the defendant requires it, a copy of the summons or other process, in the Spanish language, must
be delivered to him; and in the Counties of Santa
Barbara, San Luis Obispo, Los Angeles, San Diego,
and Monterey, with the consent of both parties, the
process, pleadings, and other proceedings in a cause
may be in the Spanish language.

§ 1057. In all cases Where an undertaking,
with sureties, is required by the provisions of this
Code, the officer taking the same must require the
sureties to accompany it with an aiiidavit that they are
each residents and householders or freeholders Within
the State, and are each worth the sum specified in the
undertaking, over and above all their just debts and
liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution; but when the amount specified in the undertaking exceeds three thousand dollars, and there are more
than two sureties thereon, they may state in their
affidavits that they are severally Worth amounts less
than that expressed in the undertaking, if the Whole
amount be equivalent to that of two suiiicient sureties.

§ 1058. In any civil action or proceeding wherein
the State or the people of the State is a party plaintifff,
or any State officer, in his official capacity, or on behalf of the State, or any county, city, or town, is a
party plaintifff or defendant, no bond, written underPART III.


§ 1063. The party prosecuting a special proceeding

may be known as the plaintifff, and the adverse party
as the defendant.

§ 1064. A judgment in a special proceeding is the
final determination of the rights of the parties therein.
The definitions of a motion and an order in a civil
action are applicable to similar acts in a special proceeding.


§ 1067. The writ of certiorari must hereafter be known as the writ of review.

§ 1068. A writ of review may be granted
by any Court, except a Police or J ustice’s Court, when
an inferior tribunal, Board, or officer, exercising judicial functions, has exceeded the jurisdiction of such
tribunal, Board, or oiiicer, and there is no appeal, nor,
in the judgment of the Court, any plain, speedy, and
adequate remedy.

§ 1069. The application must be made on
affidavit by the party beneficially interested, and the
Court may require a notice of the application to be
given to the adverse party, or may grant an order 
show cause why it should not be allowed, or may
grant the writ without notice. '

§ 1070. The writ may be directed to the
inferior tribunal, Board, or officer, or to any other person having the custody of the record or proceedings to
be certified. When directed to a tribunal, the Clerk,
if there be one, must return the writ with the transcript required.

§ 1071. The writ of review must command
the party to whom it is directed to certify fully to the
Court issuing the writ, at a speciiied time and place, a
transcript of the record and proceedings (describing
or referring to them with convenient certainty), that
the same may be reviewed by the Court; and requiring the party, in the meantime, to desist from further
proceedings in the matter to be reviewed.

§ 1072. If a stay of proceedings be not
intended, the words requiring the stay must be omitted from the writ; these words may be inserted or

omitted, in the sound discretion of the Court, but if

omitted, the power of the inferior Court or oiiicer is
not suspended or the proceedings stayed.

§ 1073. The writ must be served in the

same manner as a summons in civil action, except when
otherwise expressly directed by the Court.

§ 1074. The review upon this writ cannot
be extended further than to determine whether the
inferior tribunal, Board, or officer has regularly pursued the authority of such tribunal, Board, or oiiicer.

§ 1075. If the return of the writ be defective, the Court may order a further return to be made.
When a full return has been made, the Court must
hear the parties, or such of them as may attend for
that purpose, and may thereupon give judgment, either

aliirming or annulling, or modifying the proceedings
below.

§ 1076. A copy of the judgment, signed
by the Clerk, must be transmitted to the inferior
tribunal, Board, or oiiicer having the custody of the
record or proceeding certified up.

§ 1077. A copy of the judgment, signed

by the Clerk, entered upon or attached to the writ
and return, constitute the judgment roll. _

§ 1084. The Writ of mandamus must hereafter be designated the writ of mandate.

§ 1085. It may be issued by any Court,
except a J ustice’s or Police Court, to any inferior
tribunal, corporation, Board, or person, to compel the
performance of an act which the law specially enjoins,

as a duty resulting from an office, trust, or station; or.

to compel the admission of a party to the use and
enjoyment of a right or office to which he is entitled,

and from which he is unlawfully precluded by such
inferior tribunal, corporation, Board, or person.

§ 1086. The writ must be issued in all
cases where there is not a plain, speedy, and adequate
remedy, in the ordinary course of law. It must be
issued upon affidavit, on the application of the party
beneficially interested.

§ 1087. The writ may be either alterna
tive or peremptory. The alternative writ must state
generally the allegation against the party to whom it
is directed, and command such party, immediately
aRer the receipt of the writ, or at some other speciiied time, to do the act required to be performed, or
to show cause before the Court, at a specified time
and place, why he has not done so. The peremptory
writ must be in a similar form, except that the words
requiring the party to show cause why he has not
done as commanded must be omitted, and a return
day inserted.

§ 1088. When the application to the Court
is made without notice to the adverse party, and the
writ be allowed, the alternative must be first issued;
but if the application. be upon due notice, and the
writ be allowed, the peremptory may be issued in the
first instance. The notice of the application, when
given, must be at least ten days. The writ cannot be
granted by default. The case must be heard by the
Court, whether the adverse party appear or not.

§ 1089. On the return of the alternative,
or the day on which the application for the writ is
noticed, the party on whom the writ or notice has
been served may show cause by answer, under oath,
made in the same manner as an answer to a complaint
in a civil action.

§ 1090. If an answer be made, which
raises a question as to a matter of fact essential to the
determination of the motion, and affecting the substantial rights of the parties, and upon the supposed
truth of the allegation of which the application for the
writ is based, the Court may, in its discretion, order
the question to be tried before a jury, and postpone the
argument until such trial can be had, and the verdict
certified to the Court. The question to be tried must
be distinctly stated in the order for trial, and the
county must be designated in which the same shall be
had. The order may also direct the jury to assess any
damages which the applicant may have sustained, in
case they find for him.

§ 1091. On the trial, the applicant is not
precluded by the answer from any valid objection to
its sufriciency, and may countervail it by proof either
in direct denial or by way of avoidance.

§ 1092. The motion for new trial must be made in
the Court in which the issue of fact is tried.

§ 1093. If no notice of a motion for a new
trial be given, or if given, the motion be denied, the
Clerk, within five days after rendition of the verdict
or denial of the motion, must transmit to the Court in
which the application for the writ is pending, a certified copy of the verdict attached to the order of trial;
aRer which either party may bring on the argument
of the application, upon reasonable notice to the
adverse party.

§ 1094. If no answer be made, the case
must be heard on the papers of the applicant. If an
answer be made which does not raise’ a question such
as is mentioned in Section 1088, but only such matters
as may be explained or avoided by a reply, the Court

may, in its discretion, grant time for replying. If the
answer, or answer and reply, raise only questions of
law, or put in issue immaterial statements, not affecting the substantial rights of the parties, the Court

must proceed to hear, or fix a day for hearing, the
argument of the case.

§ 1095. If judgment be given for the appli- i

cant, he may recover the damages which he has sustained, as found by the jury, or as may be determined
by the Court or referee, upon a reference to be ordered,
together with costs; and for such damages and costs

an execution may issue; and a peremptory mandate
must also be awarded without delay.

§ 1096. The writ must be served in the
same manner as a summons in a civil action, except

when otherwise expressly directed by order of the
Court. Service upon a majority of the members of

any Board or body, is service upon the Board or body,

whether at the time of the service the Board or body
was in session or not.

§ 1097. When a. peremptory mandate has
been issued and directed to any inferior tribunal, corporation, Board, or person, if it appear to the Court
that any member of such tribunal, corporation, or
Board, or such person upon whom the writ has been
personally served, has, without just excuse, refused
or neglected to obey the same, the Court may, upon

motion, impose a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars. In case of persistence in a refusal of obedience,

the Court may order the party to be imprisoned for a.
period not exceeding threemonths, and may make any
orders necessary and proper for the complete enforcement of the writ. If a fine be imposed upon a Judge
or officer who draws a salary from the State or county,
Itcertified copy of the order must be forwarded to the

Controller, or County Treasurer, as the case may be,
and the amount thereof may be retained from the salary of such Judge or officer.

§ 1103. It may be issued by any Court except Police
or J ustice’s Courts, to an inferior tribunal, or to a corporation, Board, or person, in all cases where there is
not a plain, speedy, and adequate remedy in the ordinary course of law. It is issued upon affidavit, on the
application of the person beneticially interested.

§ 1104. The writ must be either alternative or peremptory. The alternative writ must state generally
the allegation against the party to whom it is directed,
and command such party to desist or refrain from
further proceedings_in the action or matter specified
therein, until the further order of the Court from which
it is issued, and to show cause before such Court, at a
specified time and place, why such party should not be
absolutely restrained from any further proceedings in
such action or matter. The peremptory writ must be
in a similar form, except that the words requiring the
party to show cause why he should not be absolutely

restrained, etc., must be omitted and a return day
inserted.

§ 1105. The provisions of the preceding Chapter, ;
except of the first four sections thereof, apply to this 1
proceeding. ‘


§ 1108. Writs of review, mandate, and
prohibition may be issued by any three of the Justices of the Supreme Court, or by any District or
County Judge, in vacation, and may, in the discretion
of the Justices or Judge issuing the writ, be made
returnable and a. hearing thereon be had in vacation.

§ 1109. Except as otherwise provided in this Title,
the provisions of Part II of this Code are applicable
to and constitute the rules of practice in the proceedings mentioned in this Title.

§ 1110. The provisions of Part II of this Code relative to new trials and appeals, except in so far as they
are inconsistent with the provisions of this Title, apply
to the proceedings mentioned in this Title.

§ 1111. Any elector of the county may contest the
right of any person declared elected to an ofliee to be
exercised in and for such county; and, also, any elector of a township may contest the right of any person
declared elected to any office in and for such township,
for any of the following causes:

1. For malconduct on the part of the Board of
Judges, or any member thereof;

2. When the person whose right to the oilice is contested was not, at the time of the election, eligible to,
such office;

3. When the person whose right is contested has
given to any elector or Inspector, Judge, or Clerk of
the election, any bribe or reward, or has offered any
such bribe or reward. for the purpose of procuring his
election, or has com_mitte_d_ any other offense. 

the elective franchise defined in Title IV, Part I of
THE-PENAL Conn; '
4. On account of illegal votes.

§ 1112. No irregularity or improper conduct in the
proceedings of the Judges, or any of them, is such
malconduct as avoids an election, unless the irregularity or improper conduct is such as to procure the
person whose right to the office is contested to be
declared elected whenhe had not received the highest
number of legal votes.

§ 1113. When any election held for an office exercised in and for a county is contested on account of
any malconduct on the part of the Board of Judges of
any township election,‘ or any member thereof‘, the
election cannot be annulled and set aside upon any
proof thereof, unless the rejection of the vote of such
township, or townships, would change the result as to
such oiiice in the remaining vote of the county.

§ 1114. ‘Nothing in the fourth ground of contest,
specified in Section 1111, is to be so construed as to
authorize an election to be set aside on account of
illegal votes, unless it appear that a number of illegal
votes has beeh given to the person whose right to the
office is contested, which, if taken from him, would
reduce the number of his legal votes below the number of votes given to some other person for the same
ohice, after deducting therefrom the illegal votes
which may be shown to have been given to such other
person.

§ 1115. When an elector contests the right of any
person declared elected to such office, he must, within
forty days after the return day of the election, file with

the County Clerk a written statement, setting forth
specihmlly:

1. The name of the party contesting such election,
and that he is an elector of the district, county, or
township, as the case may be, in which such election
was held;

2. The name of the person whose right to the oiiice
is contested;

3. The office;

4. The particular grounds of such contest;
—Which statement must be verified by the affidavit
of the contesting party that the matters and things
therein contained are true.

§ 1116. When the reception of illegal votes is
alleged as a cause of contest, it is sufficient to state
generally, that in one or more specified townships
illegal votes were given to the person whose election
is contested, which, if taken from him, will reduce the
number of his legal votes below the number of legal
votes given to some other person for the same office;
but no testimony can be received of any illegal votes,
unless the party contesting such election deliver to the
opposite party, at least three days before such trial, a

» written list of the number of illegal votes, and by

whom given,- which he intends to prove on such trial;
and no testimony can be received of any’illegal votes
except such as are specified in such list.

§ 1117. No statement of the grounds of contest will
be rejected, nor the proceedings dismissed by any Court
for want of form, if the grounds of contest are alleged
with such certainty as will advise the defendant of the
particular proceeding or cause for which such election
is contested.

§ 1118. Upon the statement being filed, the County
Clerk must inform the Judge of the County Court,

who must give notice and order a special term of Court
to be held at the Court House of the proper county,

on some day ‘to be named by him, not less than ten
nor more than twenty days from the date of such
notice, to hear and determine such contested election.

§ 1119. The Clerk must also, at the same time, issue
a citation for the person whose right to the office is contested, to appear at the time and place specified in the
notice, which citation must be delivered to the Sheriif
and be served upon the party in person, or, if he cannot be found, by leaving a copy thereof at the house
where he last resided.

§ 1120. The Clerk must issue subpoenas for witnesses
at the request of either party, which must be served as
other subpoenas; and the County Court has ml] power
to issue attachments to compel the attendance of witnesses who have been subpoenaed to attend.

§ 1121. The Court must meet at the time and place
designated, to determine such contested election, and
shall have all the powers necessary to the determination thereof. It may adjourn from day to day until
such trial is ended, and may also continue the trial,
before its commencement, for any time not exceeding
twenty days, for good cause shown by either party
upon affidavit, at the costs of the party applying for
such continuance. «

§ 1122. The Court must be governed, in the trial
and determination of such contested election, by the
rules of law and evidence governing the determination
of questions of law and fact, so far as the same may be
applicable; and may dismiss the proceedings if the
statement of the cause or causes of the contest is sufficient, or for want of prosecution. After hearing the
proofs and allegations of the parties, the Court must
pronounce judgment in the premises, either conf1rming or annulling and setting aside such election.

§ 1123. If in any such case it appears that another
person than the one returned has the highest number
of legal votes, the Court must declare such person
elected.

§ 1124. The Clerk, Sheriif, and Witnesses shall receive, respectively, the same fees, from the party
against whom judgment is given, as are allowed for
similar services in the District Court.

§ 1125. If the proceedings are dismissed for insufficiency, or Want of prosecution, or the election is
by the Court confirmed, judgment must be rendered
against the party contesting such election, for costs, in
favor of the party whose election was contested; but
if the election is annulled and set aside, judgment for
costs must be rendered against the party whose electior  contested, in favor of the party contesting the
same. Primarily, each. party is liable for the costs
created by himself, to the officers and witnesses entitled thereto, which may be collected in the same
manner as similar costs are collected in the District
Court.

§ 1126. Either party, aggrieved by the judgment
of the Court, may appeal therefrom to the Supreme
Court, as in other cases of appeal thereto from the
County Court.

§ 1127. Whenever an election is annulled or set
aside by the judgment of the County Court, and ten
days have elapsed and no appeal has been taken, the
commission, if any has issued, is void, and the oiiice
vacant.

§ 1132. A judgment by confession may be
entered without action, either for money due or to
become due, or to secure any person against contingent
liability on behalf of the defendant, or both, in the
manner prescribed by this Chapter. Such judgment
may be entered in any Court having jurisdiction for
like amounts.

§ 1133. A statement in writing must be
made, signed by the defendant, and verified by his
oath, to the following effect:

1. It must authorize the entry of judgment fora
specified sum;

2. If it be for money due, or to become due, it must
state concisely the facts out of which it arose, and show
that the sum confessed therefore is justly due, or to become due;

3. If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintifff
against a contingent liability, it must state concisely
the facts constituting the liability, and_ show that the
sum confessed therefore does not exceed the same.

§ 1134. The statement must be filed with
the Clerk of the Court in which the judgment is to
be entered, who must indorse upon it, and enter in
the judgment book, a judgment of such Court for the
amount confessed, with ten dollars costs. The statement and aiiidavit, with the judgment indorsed, thereupon becomes the judgment roll.

§ 1135. In a Justice’s Court, Where the Court has
authority to enter the judgment, the statement may
be filed with the J ustice, who must thereupon enter
in his docket a judgment of his Court for the amount
confessed, with three dollars costs. If a transcript of
such judgment be filed with the County Clerk, a copy
of the statement must be filed with it.

§ 1138. Parties to a question in difference,
which might be the subject of a civil action, may,
Without action, agree upon a case containing the facts
upon which the controversy depends, and present a
submission of the same to any Court which would
have jurisdiction if an action had been brought; but
it must appear, by affidavit, that the controversy is
real and the proceedings in good nsith, to determine

the rights of the parties. The Court must thereupon
hear and determine the case, and render judgment
thereon, as if an action were depending.

§ 1139. Judgment must be entered in the
judgment book as in other cases, but without costs for
any proceeding prior to the trial. The case, the submission, and a copy of the judgment constitute the

judgment roll.

§ 1140. The judgment may be enforced
in the same manner as if it had been rendered in an
action, and is in the same manner subject to appeal.


§ 1143. Any person confined in jail, on an execution issued on a judgment rendered in a civil action,
must be discharged therefrom upon the conditions in
this Chapter specified.

§ 1144. Such person must cause a. notice, in Writing,
to be given to the plaintifff, his agent, or attorney, that
at a certain time and place he will apply to the Judge

of the District Court of the county in which such person may be confined; or, in case of his absence or inability to act, to the Judge of the County Court of the
county in which such person may be imprisoned, for
the purpose of obtaining a discharge from his imprisonment.

§ 1145. Such notice must be served upon the plaintifff, his agent, or attorney, one day at least before the
hearing of the application.

§ 1146. At the time and place specified in the
notice, such person must be taken before such Judge,
who must examine him under oath concerning his
estate and property and effects, and the disposal thereof,
and his ability to pay the judgment for which he is
committed; and such Judge may also hear any other
legal and pertinent evidence that may be produced by
the debtor or the creditor.

§ 1147. The plaintifff in the action may, upon such
examination, propose to the prisoner any interrogatories pertinent to the inquiry, and they must, if required

by him, be proposed and answered in Writing, and the '

answer must be signed and sworn to by the prisoner.

§ 1148. If, upon the examination, the Judge is satisiied that the prisoner is entitled to his discharge, he
must administer to him the following oath, to Wit: “I,
——, do solemnly swear that I have not any
estate, real or personal, to the amount of fifty dollars,
except such as is by law exempted from being taken
in execution; and that I have not any other estate now

conveyed or concealed, or in any Way disposed of, with .

design to secure the same to my use, or to hinder,
delay, or defraud my creditors, so help me God.”

§ 1149. After administering the oath, the Judge
must issue an order that the prisoner be discharged

from custody, and the officer, upon the service of such
order, must discharge the prisoner forthwith, if he be
imprisoned for no other cause.

§ 1150. If such Judge does not discharge the prisoner, he may apply for his discharge at the end of
every succeeding ten days, in the same manner as
above provided, and the same proceedings must thereupon be had.

§ 1151. The prisoner, a&er being so discharged, is
forever exempted from arrest or imprisonment for the
same debt, unless he be convicted of having willfully
sworn falsely upon his examination before the Judge,
or in taking the oath before prescribed.

§ 1152. The judgment against any prisoner who is
discharged remains in full force against any estate
which may then or at any time afterward belong to
him, and the plaintiff may take out a new execution
against the goods and estate of the prisoner, in like
manner as if he had never been committed.

§ 1153. The plaintifff in the action may at any time
order the prisoner to be discharged, and he is not
thereafter liable to imprisonment for the same cause
of action.

§ 1154. Whenever a person is committed to jail on
an execution issued on a judgment recovered in a
civil action, the creditor, his agent, or attorney must
advance to the jailer, on such commitment, suiiicient
money for the support of the prisoner for one week,
and must make the like advance for every successive
week of his imprisonment; and in case of failure to
do so, the jailer must forthwith discharge such prisoner from custody, and such discharge has the same
effect as if made by order of the creditor.

§ 1159. Every person is guilty of a forcible entry
who either:

1. By breaking open doors, windows, or other parts
of a house,‘or by any kind of violence or circumstance of terror enters upon or into any real property;
or,

2. Who, after entering peaceably upon real property, turns out by force, threats, or menacing conduct,
the party in possession.

§ 1160. Every person is guilty of a forcible detainer

who either:
1. By force, or by menaces and threats of violence,

unlawfully holds and keeps the possession of any real
property, whether the same was acquired peaceably

or otherwise; or, .

2. Who, in the night-time, or during the absence
of the occupant of any lands, unlawfully enters upon
real property, and Who, alter demand made for the
surrender thereof, for the period of five days,’ refuses
to surrender the same to such former occupant.

The occupant of real property, Within the meaning
of this subdivision, is one who, Within five days preceding such unlawful entry, was in the peaceable and
undisturbed possession of such lands.

§ 1161. A tenant of real property, for a term less
than life, is guilty of an unlawful detainer:

1. Where he continues in possession of the property,
or any part thereof, alter the expiration of his term,
without the permission of the landlord; but in case of
a tenancy at Will or sutferance, it must first be terminated by notice, as prescribed in THE CIVIL CODE;

2. Where he continues in possession, after a neglect
or failure to perform the conditions or covenants of the
lease or agreement under which the property is held,
and three days notice, in Writing, requiring the performance of such conditions or covenants, or the possession of the property, shall have been served upon
him;

3. Where he continues in possession, without such
permission, after default in the payment of rent pursuant to the agreement under which the property is
held, and three days notice, in Writing, requiring payment of the rent or possession of the property, shall
have been served upon him.

§ 1162. The notices required by the preceding section may be served, either:

1. By delivering a copy to the defendant personally; or,

2. If he be absent from his place of residence, and
hem his usual place of business, by leaving a copy

with some person of suitable age and discretion at
either place; or,

3. If such place of residence and business cannot
be ascertained, or a person of suitable age or discretion there cannot be found, then by aiiixing a copy in
a conspicuous place on the property, and also delivering a copy to a person there residing, if such person
can be found.

§ 1163. The County Court of the county in which
the property, or some part of it, is situated, has jurisdiction of proceedings under this Chapter.

§ 1164. N 0 person other than the actual occupants
of the premises are necessary parties defendant to
these proceedings, nor will the proceeding abate or
plaintifff be nonsuited for the nonjoinder of any persons Who might or should have been made parties
defendant; but when it appears that any of the parties served with process or appearing in the proceeding are guilty of the offense charged, judgment must
be rendered against the persons thus found guilty.
And in case a married Woman be tenant or occupant,
and her husband is not a resident of the county in
which the premises are situated, her marriage is no
defense; but in case her husband he not joined, or
unless she be doing business as a sole trader, an execution issued upon a judgment against her can only
be enforced against property on the premises at the
time of the commencement of the action.

§ 1165. Except as provided in the preceding section, the provisions of Part II of this Code, relating
to parties to civil actions, are applicable to this proceeding.

§ 1166. The plaintifff must present to the County
Judge his written complaint, setting forth therein the
facts on which he seeks to recover, and describe the

premises with reasonable certainty, and may charge
that the defendant has acted fraudulently in making
the forcible entry or detainer (in case the proceeding
is brought for either), and may claim such damages
therefore as he may deem proper, and in case of rent
due must state the amount thereof. Upon receiving the complaint the Judge must fix a day for the
appearance of the defendant in such action, and indorse the date thus fixed, together with the day of
the presentation of the complaint, upon it; the Judge
must also direct upon the complaint that the summons to be issued thereupon be served upon the
defendant at a day not less than three days previous
to the day set for the appearance of the defendant,
and not more than twenty days from the date of making the order fixing the return day of the summons.

§ 1167. The complaint, thus indorsed, must be liled
with the Clerk of the County Court, and the Clerk
must forthwith issue the summons. It must state the
parties to the proceeding, the Court in which the
same is brought, the nature of the proceeding, in concise terms, and the relief sought, and also the day
fixed for the appearance of the defendant therein, and
the number of days before the time of the appearance that the same is to be served on the defendant.
It must notify the defendant to appear and answer
within the time designated in the summons, or that
the relief sought Will be taken against him. The
‘summons must be directed to the defendant, and must
be served and returned in the same manner as the
summons in a civil action is served and returned.

§ 1168. If the complaint presented establishes, to
the satisfaction of the Judge, fraud, force, or violence
in the entry or detainer, and that the possession held

is unlawful, he may make an order for the arrest of the
defendant.

§ 1169. If, at the time appointed, the defendant do
not appear and defend, the Court must enter his default
and render judgment in favor of the plaintifff as prayed
for in the complaint.

§ 1170. On or before the day fixed for his appearance, the defendant may appear and answer or demur.

§ 171. Whenever an issue of fact is presented by
the pleadings, if either party demand it, a jury must
be summoned to try the issue. The jury must be
summoned and formed as in Justices’ Courts, and the
provisions of this Code, respecting trials by jury in
Justices’ Courts, apply to trials by jury under this Chapter.

§ 72. On the trial of any proceeding for any forcible entry or forcible detainer, the ‘plaintifff shall only
be required to show, in addition to the forcible entry
or forcible detainer complained of, that he was peaceably in the actual possession at the time of the forcible entry, or was entitled tolthe possession at the time
of the forcible detainer. The defendant may show in
his defense that he or his ancestors, or those whose
interest in such premises he claims, have been in the
quiet possession thereof for the space of one whole
year together next before the commencement of the
proceedings, and that his interest therein is not then
ended or determined; and such showing is a bar to the

proceedings. ‘

§ 173. When, upon the trial of any proceeding
under this Chapter, it appears from the evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of either a forcible entry
or a forcible detainer, and other than the offense
charged in the complaint, the Judge must order that
such complaint be forthwith amended to conform to

such proofs. Such amendment must be without 01"‘ ‘

scri be the

imposition of terms. N o continuance musty. ,.--- mitted upon account of such amendment, unless the
defendant, by affidavit filed, shows to the satisfaction
of the Court good cause therefore.

§ 174. If, upon the trial, the verdict of the jury or
the finding of the Court is in favor of the plaintifff and
against defendant, the Clerk must thereupon enter
judgment for the restitution of the premises. The
jury, or the Court, in case the proceeding is tried without jury, must also assess the damages occasioned to
the plaintifff by the forcible entry or detainer, or in
case of rent unpaid, the amount of rent then due, and
thereupon judgment against the defendant for three
times the amount of such damages or rent, as the case

may be, so found or assessed, must be entered.
§ 175. The complaint and answer must be verified.

§ 176. An appeal taken by the defendant does not

stay proceedings upon the judgment unless the County
Judge so directs.

§ 177. Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter
the provisions of Part II of this Code are applicable
to, and constitute the rules of practice in the proceedings mentioned in this Chapter.

§ 178. The provisions of Part II of this Code, relative to new trials and appeals, except in so far as they
are inconsistent with the provisions of this Chapter,

apply to the proceedings mentioned in this Chapter.

§ 80. A lien is a charge imposed upon specific
property, by which it is made security for the performance of an act.

§ 183. Every person performing labor upon, or furnishing materials to be used in the construction, alteration, or repair of any mining claim, building, wharf,
bridge, ditch, flume, tunnel, fence, machinery, railroad, wagon road, aqueduct to create hydraulic power,
or any other structure, or who performs labor in any
mining claim, has a lien upon the same for the work
or labor done or materials furnished by each respectively, whether done or furnished at the instance of
the owner of the building or other improvement, or
his agent, but the aggregate amount of such liens
must not exceed the amount which the owner would
be otherwise liable to pay.

§ 1184. Any person who, at the request of the
owner of any lot in any incorporated city or town,
grades, fills in, or otherwise improves the same, or the
street in front of or adjoining the same, has a lien

upon such lot for his work done and materials furnished. °

§ 1185. The land upon which any building, improvement, or structure is constructed, together with a convenient space about the same, or so much as may be
required for the convenient use and occupation thereof,
is also subject to the liens, if, at the time the work
was commenced or the materials for the same had
commenced to be furnished, the land belonged to
the person who caused said building, improvement, or
structure to be constructed, altered, or repaired; but if
such person owned less than a fee simple estate in
such land, then only his interest therein is subject to
such lien.

§ 186. The liens provided for in this Chapter are
preferred to any lien, mortgage, or other encumbrance
which may have attached subsequent to the time when
the building, improvement, or structure was commenced, Work done, or materials were commenced to
be furnished; also, to any lien, mortgage, or other
encumbrance of which the lienholder had no notice,
and which was unrecorded at the time the building,
improvement, or structure was commenced, work done,
or the materials were commenced to be furnished.

§ 187. Every original contractor, within sixty days
after the completion of his contract, and every person,
save the original contractor, claiming the benefit of
this Chapter, must, Within thirty days after the completion of any building, improvement, or structure, or
after the completion of the alteration or repair thereof,
or the performance of any labor in a mining claim, file
with the County Recorder of the county in which such
property, or some part thereof‘, is situated, a claim containing a statement of his demand, after deducting all
just credits and offsets, with the name of the owner,
or reputed owner, if known, and also the name of the
person by Whom he was employed, or to Whom be
furnished the materials, with a statement of the terms,
time given and conditions of his contract, and alsoa
description of the property to be charged with the lien
suiiicient for identification, which claim must be verified by the oath of himself or of some other person.
If his contract or any part thereof is in Writing, a copy
of such Writing must be filed with and made part of
his claim.

§ 1188. In every casein which one claim is filed
against two or more buildings, mining claims, or other
improvements owned by the same person, the person
filing such claim must at the same time designate the
amount due to him on each of such buildings, mining

claims, or other improvements; otherwise, the lieu of
such claim is postponed to other liens. The lien of
such claimant does not extend beyond the amount
designated, as against other creditors having liens, by
judgment, mortgage, or otherwise, upon either of such
buildings or other improvements, or upon the land
upon which the same are situated.

§ 1189. The Recorder must record the claim in a
book kept by him for that purpose, which record must
be indexed as deeds and other conveyances are required by law to be indexed, and for which he may
receive the same fees as are allowed by law for recording deeds and other instruments.‘

§ 190. No lien provided for in this Chapter binds
any building, mining claim, improvement, or structure
for a longer period than ninety days alier the same
has been filed, unless proceedings be commenced in a
proper Court within that time to enforce the same; or,
if a credit be given, then ninety days a&er the expiration of such credit; but no lien continues in force for
a longer time than two years from the time the work
is completed, by any agreement to give credit.

§ 191. If service of summons be made by publication, the time of publication, where the defendant
resides out of or is absent from the State, or for any
other cause cannot be served personally, need be but
once a week for four successive weeks.

§ 192. All persons entitled to liens on the structure
or improvement, except those who contracted with
the owner thereof, are sub-contractors, and the Court,
in the judgment, must direct the amount due sub-contractors to be paid out of the proceeds of sales before
any part of such proceeds are paid to the contractor.

§ 1193. The Court may also allow, as part of the

costs, the monies paid for filing and recording the
lien, and a reasonable attorney’s fee in the District
and Supreme Courts.

§ 1194. In every case in which different liens are
asserted against property, the Court in the judgment
must declare the rank of each lien or class of liens,
and the proceeds of th'e sale of the property must be

applied to each lien or class of liens in the order of its
rank. ‘

§ 195. Whenever, on the sale of the property subject to the lien, there is a deficiency of proceeds,
judgment may be docketed for the deficiency in like
manner and with like effect as in actions for the foreclosure of mortgages.

§ 196. Any number of persons claiming liens may
join in the same action, and when separate actions are
commenced the Court may consolidate them.

§ 1197. Nothing contained in this Chapter can be
construed to impair or affect the right of any person
to whom any debt may be due for work done, or
materials furnished, to maintain a personal action to
recover such debt against the person liable therefore;
and the person bringing such personal action may
take out an attachment therefore, notwithstanding his
lien, and, in his affidavit to procure an attachment,
need not state that his demand is not secured by a
lien; but the judgment, if any, obtained by the plaintiff in such personal action, cannot be construed to

impair or merge any lien held by plaintifff under this Chapter.

§ 1198. Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, the provisions of Part II of this Code are applicable to, and constitute the rules of practice in, the
proceedings mentioned in this Chapter.

§ 199. The provisions of Part II of this Code relative to new trials and appeals, except in so far as they
are inconsistent with the provisions of this Chapter,
apply to the proceedings mentioned in this Chapter.

§ 1204. In all assignments of property, made by any
person to trustees or assignees, on account of the inability of the person, at the time of the assignment, to
pay his debts, or in proceedings in insolvency, the
wages of the miners, mechanics, salesmen, servants,
clerks, or laborers employed by such person, to the
amount of one hundred dollars, and for services rendered within sixty days, are preferred claims, and must
be paid by such trustees or assignees before any other
creditor or creditors of the assignor.

§ 1205. In case of the death of any employer, the
wages of each miner, mechanic, salesman, clerk, servant, and laborer, for services rendered Within the
forty days next preceding the death of the employer,
not exceeding one hundred dollars, rank in priority
next after the funeral expenses, expenses of the last
sickness, the charges and expenses of administering
upon the estate, and the allowance to the widow and
infant children, and must be paid before other claims
against the estate of the deceased person.

§ 1206. In cases of executions, attachments, and
writs of a similar nature, issued against any person,

miners, mechanics, salesmen, servants, clerks, and
laborers, Who have claims against the defendant for
labor done, may give notice of their claim, and the
amount thereof, sworn to by the person making the
claim, to the officer executing either of such writs, at
any time before the actual sale of property levied on;
and such officers must pay to such persons, out of the
proceeds of the sale, the amount each is entitled to
receive for services rendered within the forty days next
preceding the levy of the Writ, not exceeding one hun' dred dollars. If any or all of the claims so presented,

and claiming preference under this section, are disputed by either the debtor or creditor, the person presenting the same must commence an action Within ten
days for the recovery thereof, and must prosecute his
action with due diligence, or be forever barred from
any claim of priority of payment thereof; but in case
action is rendered necessary by the act of either debtor
or creditor, and judgment be had for the claim, or any
part thereof; carrying costs, the costs taxable therein
are likewise a preferred claim, with the same rank as
the original claim.

§ 1209. The following acts or omissions, in respect
to‘ a Court of justice, or proceedings therein, are contempts of the authority of the Court:

1. Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior
toward the Judge while holding the Court, tending to
interrupt the due course of a trial or other judicial
proceeding;

2. A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct, or violent disturbance, tending to interrupt the due course
of a trial. or other judicial proceeding;

3. Misbehavior in office, or other willful neglect
or violation of duty by an attorney, counsel, Clerk,
Sheriff, Coroner, or other person appointed or elected
to perform a judicial or ministerial service;

4. Deceit or abuse of the process or proceedings of
the Court by a party to an action or special proceeding; '

5. Disobedience of any lawful judgment, order, or
process of the Court;

6. Assuming to be an officer, attorney, counsel of a
Court, and acting as such without authority;

7. Rescuing any person or property, in the custody
of an officer by virtue of an order or process of such
Court;

8. Unlawfully detaining a witness or party to an
action while going to, remaining at, or returning from
the Court where the action is on the calendar for trial;

9. Any other unlawful interference with the process
or proceedings of a Court;

10. Disobedience of a subpoena duly served, or refusing to be sworn or answer as a witness;

11. When summoned as a juror in a Court, neglect
ing to attend or serve as such, or improperly conversing with a party to an action to be tried at such Court,
or with any other person, in relation to the merits of
such action, or receiving a communication from a party
or other person in respect to it, without immediately
disclosing the same to the Court; .

12. Disobedience, by an inferior tribunal, 
trate, or officer, of the lawful judgment, order, or process of a superior Court, or proceeding in an action or
special proceeding contrary to law, after such action
or special proceeding is removed from the jurisdiction
of such inferior tribunal, magistrate, or oiiicer. Disobedience of the lawful orders or process of a judicial officer is also a contempt of the authority of such
officer.

§ 1210. Every person dispossessed or ejected from,
or out of, any real property, by the judgment or process of any Court of competent jurisdiction, and who,
not having right so to do, reénters into or upon, or
takes possession of, any such real property, or induces
or procures any person not having right so to do, or
aids or abets him therein, is guilty of a contempt of
the Court by which such judgment was rendered, or
from which such process issued. Upon a conviction
for such contempt, the Court or Justice of the Peace
must immediately issue an alias process, directed to
the proper officer, and requiring him to restore the
party entitled to the possession of such property,
under the original judgment or process, to such possession.

§ 1211. When a contempt is committed
in the immediate view and presence of the Court, or
Judge at chambers, it may be punished summarily;

for which an order must be made, reciting the facts as
occurring in such immediate view and presence, adjudging that the person proceeded against is thereby
guilty of a contempt, and that he be punished as
therein prescribed. When the contempt is not committed in the immediate view and presence of the
Court, or Judge at chambers, an aihdavit shall be presented to the,Court, or Judge, of the facts constituting
the contempt, or a statement of the facts by the referees or arbitrators, or other judicial officer.

§ 1212. When the contempt is not committed in the immediate view and presence of the
Court or Judge, a Warrant of attachment may be issued
to bring the person charged to answer, or, Without a
previous arrest, a. warrant of commitment may, upon
notice, or upon an order to show cause, be granted;
and no warrant of commitment can be issued Without
such previous attachment to answer, or such notice or
order to show cause.

§ 1213. Whenever a warrant of attachment is issued, pursuant to this Title, the Court or
Judge must direct, by an indorsement on such Warrant,
that the person charged may be let to bail for his

appearance, in an amount to be specified in such
indorsement.

§ 1214. Upon executing the warrant of
attachment, the Sheriff must keep the person in custody, bring him before the Court or Judge, and detain
him until an order be made in the premises, unless the
person arrested entitle himself to be discharged, as
provided in the next section. a

§ 1215. When a direction to let the person
arrested to bail is.-contained in the warrant of attachment, or indorsed thereon, he must be discharged from

the arrest, upon executing and delivering to the oihcer,
at any time before the return day of the warrant, a
written undertaking, with two sufiicient sureties, to
the effect that the person arrested will appear on the
return of the warrant and abide the order of the Court
or Judge thereupon; or they will pay as may be
directed, the sum specified in the warrant.

§ 1216. The officer must return the warrant of arrest and undertaking, if any, received by

him from the person arrested, by the return day speciiied therein.

§ 7. When the person arrested has been
brought up or appeared, the Court or Judge must proceed to investigate the charge, and must hear any
answer which the person arrested may make to the
same, and may examine witnesses for or against him,
for which an adjournment may be had from time to
time, if necessary.

§ 1218. Upon the answer and evidence
taken, the Court or Judge must determine whether
the person proceeded against is guilty of the contempt
charged, and if it be adjudged that he is guilty of the
contempt, a line may be imposed on him not exceeding five hundred dollars, or he may be imprisoned not
exceeding five days, or both.

§ 1219. When the contempt consists in the
omission to perform an act which is yet in the power
of the person to perform, he may be imprisoned until
he have performed it, and in that case the act must be
speciiied in the warrant of commitment.

§ 1220. When the warrant of arrest has
been returned served, if the person arrested do not
appear on the return day, the Court or Judge may
issue another warrant of arrest, or may order the

undertaking to be prosecuted, or both. If the undertaking be prosecuted, the measure of damages in the
action is the extent of the loss or injury sustained by
the aggrieved party by reason of the misconduct for
which the warrant was issued, and the costs of the
proceeding.

§ 1221. Whenever, by the provisions of
this Title, an officer is required to keep a person
arrested on a warrant of attachment in custody, and
to bring him before a Court or Judge, the inability,
from illness or otherwise, of the person to attend, is a
sufficient excuse for not bringing him up; and the
officer must not confine a person arrested upon the
warrant in a prison, or otherwise restrain him of personal liberty, except so far as may be necessary to
secure his personal attendance.

§ 1222. The judgment and orders of the
Court or Judge, made in cases of contempt, are final
and conclusive.

§ 1227. A corporation may be dissolved by the

County Judge of .the county where its office or principal place of business is situated, upon its voluntary

application for that purpose. a

§ 1228. The application must be in writing, and
must set forth:

1. That at a meeting of the stockholders or members called for that purpose, the dissolution of the
corporation was resolved upon by a two-third vote of
all the stockholders or members;

2. That all claims and demands against the corporation have been satisfied and discharged.

§ 1229. The application must be signed by a
majority of the Board of Trustees, Directors, or other
officers having the management of the affairs of the
corporation, and must be verified in the same manner
as a complaint in a civil action.

§ 1230. If the Judge is satisfied that the application is in conformity with this Title, he must order it
to be filed with the Clerk, and that the Clerk give not
less than thirty nor more than fifty days notice of the
application, by publication in some newspaper published in the county, and if there ‘are none such, then
by advertisements, posted up in three of the principal
public places in the county.

§ 1231. At any time before the expiration of the
time of publication any person may file his objections
to the application. '

§ 1232. After the time’ of publication has expired,
the Judge may, ‘upon ‘dve days notice to the persons
who have filed objections, or Without further notice, if

no objections have been filed, proceed to hear and

determine the application; and if all the statements
therein made are shown to be true, he must declare
the corporation dissolved.

§ 1233. The application, notices, and proof of publication, objections (if any), and declaration of dissolution, constitute the judgment roll, and from the judgment an appeal may be taken as from judgments of
the County Courts.


§ 1237. Eminent domain is the right of the people
or Government to take private property for public use.

This right may be exercised in the manner provided
in this Title.

§ 1238. Subject to the provisions of this Title, the
right of eminent domain may be exercised in behalf
of the following public uses:

1. Fortifications, magazines, arsenals, navy yards,
navy and army stations, light houses, range and beacon
lights, coast surveys, and all other public uses authorized by the Government of the United States;

2. Public buildings and grounds for the use of the
State, and all other public uses authorized by the
Legislature of this State; ‘

3. Public buildings and grounds for the use of any
county, incorporated city, or city and county, village,
town; or school districts, canals, aqueducts, flumes,
ditches, or pipes for conducting water for the use of
the inhabitants of any county, incorporated city, or
city and county, village, or town; or for draining any
county, incorporated city, or city and county, village,
or town; raising the banks of streams, removing
obstructions therefrom, and widening, deepening, or
straightening their channels; roads, streets, and alleys,
and all other public uses for the benefit of any county,
incorporated city, or city and county, village, or town,
or the inhabitants thereof, which may be authorized
by the Legislature; but the mode of apportioning and
collecting the costs of such improvements shall be
such as may be provided in the statutes by which the
same may be authorized;

4. Wharves, docks, piers, chutes, booms, ferries,
bridges, toll roads, by-roads, plank and turnpike roads,
steam and horse. railroads; canals, ditches, flumes,
aqueducts, and pipes, for public transportation, supplying mines and farming neighborhoods with Water, and
draining and reclaiming lands, and for floating logs
and lumber on streams not navigable;

5. Roads, tunnels, ditches, flumes, pipes, and dumping places for working mines; also, outlets, natural or ,

otherwise, for the flow, deposit, or conduct of tailings

or refuse matter from mines; also, an occupancy in
common by the owners or possessors of different mines
of any place for‘ the flow, deposit, or conduct of tailings or refuse matter from their several mines;

6. By—roads leading from highways to residences

and farms.
No'r1:.—This section was amended so as to read as

published in the text, by Act of April 1st, 1872.

§ 1239. The following is a classification of the interests, estates, and rights in lands subject to be taken for
public use:

1. A fee simple, when taken for public buildings or.

grounds, or for permanent buildings for use in connection with a right of way, or for an outlet for the flow
or a place for the deposit of tailings from a mine;

2. An easement when taken for any other use;

3. Right of entry upon and occupation of lands,
and the right to take therefrom such earth, gravel,

‘stones, trees, and timber as may be necessary for some

public use.
No'r1c.—This section was amended so as to read as

published in the text by the Act of April 1st, 1872.

§ 1240. The private property which may be taken
under this Title, includes:

1. All real property belonging to any person;

2. Lands belonging to this State, or to any county,
incorporated city, or city and county, village, or town,
not appropriated to some public use;

3. Property appropriated to public use; but such
property shall not be taken unless for a more necessary public use than that to which it has been already
appropriated; .

4. Franchises for toll roads, toll bridges, and ferries,
and all other franchises; but such franchises shall not
be taken unless for free highways, railroads, or other
more necessary public use;

5. All rights of way for any and all the purposes

mentioned in Section 1238, and any and all structures
and improvements thereon, and the lands held or used
in connection therewith, shall be subject to be connected with, crossed, or intersected by any other right
of way or improvements or structures thereon. They
shall also be subject to a limited use, in common with
the owner thereof; when necessary; but such use-s,
crossings, intersections, and connections shall be made
in manner most compatible with the greatest public
benefit and least private injury _;

6. All classes of private property not enumerated
may be taken for public use, when such taking is
authorized by law.

§ 1241. Before property can be taken, it must ap. pear:

_1. That the use to which it is to be applied is a use
authorized by law;

2. That the taking is necessary to such use;

.3. If already appropriated to some public use, that
the public use to which it is to be applied is a more
necessary public use. '

§ 1242. In all cases where land is required for pubhe use, the State, or its agents in charge of such use,
may survey and locate the same; but it must be located in the manner which will be most compatible with
the greatest public good and the least private injury,
and subject to the provisions of Section 1247. The
State, or its agents in charge of such public use, may
enter upon the land and make examinations, surveys,
and ‘maps thereof, and such entry shall constitute no
cause of action in favor of the owners of the land,
except for injuries resulting from negligence, wantonness, or malice.

§ 1243. All proceedings under this Title must be
brought in the District Court for the county in which

the property is situated. They must be commenced
by filing a complaint and issuing a summons thereon.

§ 1244. The complaint must contain:

1. The name of the corporation, association, commission, or person in charge of the public use for
which the property is sought, who must be styled
plaintiiIs;.

2. The names of all owners and claimants of the
property, if known, or a statement that they are unknown, who must be styled defendants;

3. A statement of the right of the plaintifff;

4. If a right of way be sought, the complaint must
show the location, general route, and termini, and must
be accompanied with surveys and maps thereof;

5. A description of each piece of land sought to be
taken, and whether the same includes the whole or
only a part of an entire parcel or tract.

All parcels lying in the county, and required for the
same public use, may be included in the same, or separate proceedings, at the option of the plaintifff, but
the Court may consolidate or separate them, to suit
the convenience of parties.

§ 1245. The Clerk must issue a summons, which
must contain the names of the parties, a general description of the whole property, a ‘statement of the
public use for which it is sought, and a reference to
the complaint for descriptions of the respective parcels, and a notice to the defendants to appear and
show cause why the property described should not be
condemned as prayed for in the complaint. In all
other particulars it must be in the form of a summons
in civil actions, and must be served in like manner.

§ 1246. All persons in occupation of, or having or
claiming an interest in any of the property described
in the complaint, or in the damages for the taking

thereof, though not named, may appear, plead, and
defend, each in respect to his own property or interest,
or that claimed by him, in like manner as if named in
the complaint.

§ 1247. The Court shall have power:
1. To regulate and determine the place and manner
of making connections and crossings, or of enjoying

. the common use mentioned in the fifth subdivision of Section 1240;

2. To hear and determine all adverse or conflicting
claims to the property sought to be condemned, and
to the damages therefore;

3. To determine the respective rights of different
parties seeking condemnation of the same property.

§ 1248. The Court, jury, or referee must hear such
legal testimony as may be offered by any of the parties to the proceedings, and thereupon must ascertain
and assess:

1. The value of the property sought to be condemned, and all improvements thereon pertainingto
the realty, and of each and every separate estate or
interest therein; if it consists of diiferent parcels, the

value of each parcel and each estate or interest therein ‘

shall be separately assessed;

2. If the property sought to be condemned constitutes only a part of a larger parcel, the damages which
will accrue to the portion not sought to be condemned,
by reason of its severance from the portion sought to
be condemned, and the construction of the improvement in the manner proposed by the plaintifff;

3. Separately, how much the portion not soughtto
be condemned, and each estate or interest therein, will
be benefited, if at all, by the _ construction of the
improvement proposed by the plaintifff; and if the
benefit shall be equal to the damages assessed, under Subdivision 2, the owner of the parcel shall be allowed

no compensation except the value of the portion taken;
but if the benefit shall be less than the damages so
assessed, the former shall be deducted from the latter,
and the remainder shall be the only damages allowed
in addition to the value;

4. If the property sought to be condemned be for a
railroad, the cost of good and suihcient fences along
the line of such railroad, and the cost of cattle guards
where fences may cross the line of such railroad;

5. As far as practicable, compensation must be
assessed for each source of damage separately.

§ 1249. For the purpose of assessing compensation
and damages, the right thereto shall be deemed to
have accrued at the date of the summons, and its
actual value, at that date, shall be the measure of
compensation for all property to be actually taken,
and the basis of damages to property not actually
taken, but injuriously affected, in all cases where such
damages are allowed, as provided in Section 1248.
If an order be made letting the plaintifff into possession, as provided in Section 1254, the compensation
and damages awarded shall draw lawful interest from
the date of such order. N o improvements put upon
the property, subsequent to the date of the service of
summons, shall be included in the assessment of compensation or damages. ‘

§ 1250. If the title attempted to be acquired is
found to be defective from any cause, the plaintifff
may again institute proceedings to acquire the same,
as in this Title prescribed.

§ 1251. The plaintifff must, within thirty days after
final judgment, pay the sum of money assessed; but
may, at the time of or before‘ payment, elect to build
the fences and cattle guards; and if he so elect, shall
execute to the defendant a bond, with sureties to be

approved by the Court in double the assessed costof
the same, to build such fences and cattle guards within
eighteen months from the time the railroad is built on
the land taken, and if such bond be given, need not
pay the cost of such fences and cattle guard. In an
action on such bond the plaintifff may recover reasonable attorney’s fees.

§ 1252. Payment may be made to the defendants
entitled thereto, or the money may be deposited in
Court for the defendants, and be distributed to those
entitled thereto. If the money be not so paid or
deposited, the defendants may have execution as in
civil cases; and if the money cannot be made on execution, the Court, upon a showing to that effect, must
set aside and annul the entire proceedings, and restore
possession of the property to the defendant, if possession has been taken by the plaintifff.

§ 1253. When payments have been made and the

~ bond given, if the plaintifff elects to give one, as required

by the last two sections, the Court must make a final
order of condemnation, which must describe the property condemned and the purposes of such condemna. tion. A copy of the order must be filed in the office

of the Recorder of the county, and thereupon the
property described therein shall vest in the plaintifff
for the purposes therein specified.

§ 1254. At any time after service of summons, the
Court may authorize the plaintifff, if already in possession, to continue therein, and if not, then to take
possession of and use the property during the pendency
and until the final conclusion of such proceedings, and
may stay all actions and proceedings against the plaintifff on account thereof; but the plaintifff must give
security, to be approved by such Court or Judge, to
pay as well the compensation in that behalf, when

ascertained, as all damages which may be sustained
by the defendant, if for any cause the property shall
not be finally taken for public use.

§ 1255. Costs may be allowed or not, and if allowed,
may be apportioned between the parties on the same
or adverse sides, in the discretion of the Court.

§ 1256. Except as otherwise provided in this Title,
the provisions of Part II of this Code are applicable
to and constitute the rules of practice in the proceedings mentioned in this Title.

§ 1257. The provisions of Part II of this Code relative to new trials and appeals, except in so far as they
are inconsistent with the provisions of this Title, apply
to the proceedings mentioned in this Title.

§ 1258. With relation to the Acts passed at the
present session of the Legislature, this Title must be
construed in the same manner as if this Code had been
passed on the last day of this session, and from and
after the time this Code takes e&'eet, all laws of this
State in relation to the taking of private property for
public uses are abolished, and all proceedings had in
the exercise of the powers of eminent domain must
conform to the provisions of this Title.

§ 1259. Title VII of Part III of THE Conn or CIVIL
PROCEDURE of the State of California (this Title) shall
be in force and effect from and after the fourth day of
April, one thousand eight hundred and seventy-two.


§ 1260. From and after the time this Title takes
effect, it must be construed in the same manner as it
would be were Sections 4 and 17 of this Code in force
and effect.

§ 1261. No proceeding to enforce the right of eminent domain commenced before this Title takes effect,
is affected by the provisions of this Title.

§ 1262. Until the first day of January, one thousand
eight hundred and seventy-three, at twelve o'clock
noon, the provisions of Sections 1256 and 1257 of this Title are suspended, and until then, except as otherwise provided in this Title, the rules of pleading and
practice in civil actions now in force in this State are
applicable to the proceedings mentioned in this Title,
and constitute the rules of pleading and practice

therein.

§ 1263. Nothing in this Code must be construed to
abrogate or repeal any statute providing for the taking
of property in any city or town for street purposes.

§ 1269. When the Attorney General is informed
that any real estate has escheated to this State, he
must file an information in behalf of the State, in the
District Court of the Judicial District in which such
estate, or any part thereof, is situated, setting forth a

description of the estate, the name of the person last
seized, the name of the occupant and person claiming
such estate, if known, and the facts and circumstances
in consequence of which the estate is claimed to have
escheated, with an allegation that, by reason thereof,
the State of California has right by law to such estate.
Upon such information, a summons must issue to such
person, requiring him to appear and answer the information within the time allowed by law in civil actions;
and the Court must make an order, setting forth briefly
the contents of the information, and requiring all persons interested in the estate to appear and show cause,
if any they have, within forty days from the date of
the order, why the same should not vest in this State;
which order must be published at least one month
from the date thereof, in a newspaper published in the
district, if one be published therein, and in case no
newspaper is published in the district, in some other
newspaper in this State.

§ 1270. The Court, upon the information being filed
and upon the application of the Attorney General,
either before or after answer, upon notice to the party
claiming such estate, if known, may, upon sufiicient
cause therefore being shown, appoint a receiver to take
charge and receive the rents and profits of the same
until the title to such real estate is finally settled.

§ 1271. All persons named in the information may
appear and answer, and may traverse or deny the facts
stated in the information, the title of the State to lands
and tenements therein mentioned, at any time before
the time for answering expires; and any other person
claiming an interest in such estate may appear and be
made a defendant, and by motion for that purpose, in
open Court, within the time allowed for answering;
and if no person appears and answers within the time,
then judgment must be rendered that the State be

seized of the lands and tenements in such information
claimed. But if any person appear and deny the title
set up by the State, or traverse any material fact set
forth in the information, the issue of fact must be tried
as issues of fact are tried in civil actions. If; after the
issues are tried, it appears from the iizcts found or
admitted, that the State has good title to the land and
tenements in the information mentioned, or any part
thereof, judgment must be rendered that the State be
seized thereof‘, and recover costs of suit against the
defendants.

§ 1272. Within twenty years after judgment in any
proceeding had under this Title, a person not a party
or privy to such proceeding may file a petition in the
District Court of the County of Sacramento, showing
his claim or right to the property, or the proceeds
thereof‘. A copy of such petition must be served on
the Attorney General at least twenty days before the
hearing of the petition, who must answer the same;
and the Court thereupon must try the issue as issues
are tried in civil actions, and if it be determined that
such person is entitled to the property, or the proceeds
thereof, it must order the property, if it has not been
sold, to be delivered to him, or if it has been sold and
the proceeds paid into the State Treasury, then it must
order the Controller to draw his warrant on the Treasury for the payment of the same, but without interest
or cost to the State, a copy of which order, under the
seal of the Court, shall be a suiiicient voucher for drawing s_uch warrant. All persons who fail to appear and
file their petitions within the time limited, are forever
barred, saving, however, to infants, married women,
and persons of unsound mind, or persons beyond the
limits of the United States, the right toiappear and
file their petitions at any time within five years after
their respective disabilities cease. - '


§ 1275. Applications for change of names must be
heard and determined by the County Courts.

§ 1276. All applications for change of names must
be made to the County Court of the county where the
person whose name is proposed to be changed resides,
by petition, signed by such person; and if such person is under twenty-one years of age, if a male, and
under the age of eighteen years, if a female, by one
of the parents, if living; or if both be dead, then by
the guardian; and if there be no guardian, then by
some near relative or friend. The petition must specify the place of birth and residence of such person,
his or her present name, the name proposed, and the
reason for such change of name, and must, if the father
of such person be not living, name, as far as known to
the petitioner, the near relatives of such person, and
their plaga of residence.

§ 1277. A copy of such petition must be published
for ‘four successive weeks, in some newspaper printed
in the county, if a newspaper be printed therein, but
if no newspaper be printed in the county, a copy of
such petition must be posted at three of the most public places in the county for a like period, and prooiis
must be made of such publication before the petition
can be considered. '

§ 1278. Such application must be heard at such
time during term as the Court may appoint, and objections may be filed by any person who can, in such
objections, show to the Court good reason against such
change of name. On the hearing the Court may
examine, upon oath, any of the petitioners, remanstrants, or other persons, touching the application, and
may make an order changing the name or dismissing
the application, as to the Court may seem right and
proper.

§ 1281. Persons capable of contracting
may submit to arbitration any controversy which
might be the subject of a civil action between them,
except a question of title to real property in fee or for
life. This qualification does not include questions
relating merely to the partition or boundaries of real

property.

§ 1282. The submission to arbitration must
be in writing, and may be to one or more persons.

§ 1283. It may be stipulated in the submission, that it be entered as an order of the County
Court, or of the District Court, for which purpose it
must be filed with the Clerk of a county where the
parties, or one of them, reside. The Clerk must thereupon enter in his register of actions a note of the submission, with the names of the parties, the names of
the arbitrators, the date of the submission, when filed,
and the time limited by the submission, if any, within
which the award must be made. When so entered,
the submission cannot be revoked without the consent
of both parties. The arbitrators may be compelled
by the Court to ‘make an award, and the award may
be enforced by the Court in the same manner as a
judgment. If the submission is not made an order
of the Court, it may be revoked at any time before
the award is made.

§ 1284. Arbitrators have power to appoint
a time and place for hearing, to adjourn from time to
time, to administer oaths to witnesses, to hear the allegations and evidence of the parties and to make an
award thereon. '

§ 1285. All the arbitrators must meet and
act together during the investigation; but when met,
a majority may determine any question. Before acting,
they must be sworn before an officer authorized to
administer oaths, faithfully and fairly to hear and
examine the allegations and evidence of the parties in
relation to the matters in controversy, and to make a
just award according to their understanding.

§ 1286. The award must be in writing,

signed by the arbitrators, or a majority of them, and
delivered to the parties. When the submission is
made an order of the Court, the award must be filed
with the’ Clerk, and a note thereof made in his register.' After the expiration of five days from the filing
of the award, upon the application of a party, and on
filing an aiiidavit, showing that notice of filing the
award has been served on the adverse party or his
attorney, at least four days prior to such application,
and that no order staying the entry of judgment has
been served, the award must be entered by the Clerk
in the judgment book, and thereupon has the effect of
a judgment.

§ 1287. The Court, on motion, may vacate
the award upon either of the following grounds, and
may order a new hearing before the same arbitrators,
or not, in its discretion: .

1. That it was procured by corruption or fraud;

2. That the arbitrators were guilty of misconduct,
or committed gross error in refusing, on cause shown,
to postpone the hearing, or in refusing to hear pertinent evidence, or otherwise acted improperly, in a
manner by which the rights of the party were prejudiced; ,

3. That the arbitrators exceeded their powers in
making their award; or that they refused, or improperly omitted, to consider a part of the matters submitted to them; or that the award is indefinite, or canT not be performed.

§ 1288. The Court may, on motion, modify.

or correct the award, where it appears:

1. That there was a miscalculation in figures upon.

which it was made, or that there is a mistake in the
description of some person or property therein;

2. When a part of the award is upon matters not

submitted, which part can be separated from other
parts, and does not affect the decision on the matters
submitted; '

‘ 3. When the award, though imperfect in form,

§ 1294. Wills must be proved, and letters
testamentary or of administration granted:

1. In the county of which the decedent was a resident at the time of his death, in Whatever place he
may have died;

2. In the county in which the decedent may have
died, leaving estate therein, he not being a resident
of the State;

3. In the county in which any part of the estate may
be, the decedent having died out of the State, and not
resident thereof at the time of his death;

4. In the county in which any part of the estate may
be, the decedent not being a resident of the State, and
not leaving estate in the county in which he died;

5. In all other cases, in the county Where application
for letters is nrst made. .

§ 1295. When the estate of the decedent is
in more than one county, he having died out of the
State, and not having been a resident thereof at the

time of his death, or being such non-resident and
dying within the State and not leaving estate in the
county Where he died, the Probate Court of that
county in which application is first made for letters
testamentary or of administration, has exclusive jurisdiction of the settlement of the estate.


§ 1298. Every custodian of a will, within
thirty days after receipt of information that the maker
thereof is dead, must deliver the same to the Probate
Court having jurisdiction of the estate, or to the executor named therein. A failure to comply with the

provisions of this section makes the‘ person failing
responsible for all damages sustained by any one injured thereby.

§ 1299. Any executor, devisee, or legatee
named in any will, or any other person interested in
the estate, may, at any time after the death of ‘the
testator, petition the Court having jurisdiction to have
the will proved, whether the same be in writing, in
his possession or not, or is lost or destroyed, or beyond
the jurisdiction of the State, or a nuncupative will.

§ 1300. A petition for the probate of a will
must show:

1. The jurisdictional facts;
2. Whethe1' the person named as executor consents

to act, or renounces his right to letters testamentaiy;

3. The names, ages, and residence of the heirs and
devisees of the decedent;

4. The probable value and character of the property
of the estate; ,

5. The name of the person for whom letters testamentary are prayed.

No defect of form, or in the statement of jurisdictional facts actually existing, shall make void the
probate of a will.

§ 1301. If the person named in a will as
executor, for thirty days after he has knowledge of the
death of the testator, and that he is named as executor, fails to petition the proper Court for the probate
of the will, and that letters testamentary be issued to
him, he may be held to have renounced his right to
letters, and the Court may appoint any other competent person administrator, unless good cause for delay
is shown.

§ 1302. If it is alleged in any petition
that any will is in the possession of a third person,

and the Court is satisfied that the allegation is correct, an order must be issued and served upon the
person having possession of the will, requiring him to
produce it at a time named in the order. If he has
possession of the will and neglects or refuses to produce it in obedience to the order, he may by warrant from the Court be committed to the jail of the
county, and be kept in close confinement until he produces it.

§ 1303. When the petition is filed and
the will produced, the Probate J udge. must fix a day
for hearing the petition, not less than ten nor more
than thirty days from the production of the Will.
Notice of the hearing shall be given by the Clerk of
the Court, by publishing the same in a newspaper of
the county; if there is none, then by three written
or printed notices posted at three of the most public
places in the county. If the notice is published in a
weekly newspaper, it must appear therein on at least
three different days of publication, and if in a newspaper published oftener than once a week, it-shall be
so published that there must b_e at least ten days from
the first to the last day of publication, both the first
and the last day being included. If the notice is by
posting, it must be given at least ten days before the
hearing. .

§ 1304. The heirs of the testator, resident in the county ‘hr State, must have written or
printed copies of the notice of the time fixed for the
probate of the will, addressed to them at their places
of residence, postage paid, and placed in the Post
Ofiice by the petitioner, at the date of the first publication; the notice must be issued by the Clerk, over
his ofiicial seal. Proof of the mailing of the notice
must be made at the hearing; the same notice and

proof of service thereof on the person named as executor must be made, if he be not the petitioner; also, on
any person named as co-executor, not petitioning.

§ 1305. The Probate Judge may, out of
term time or at chambers, receive petitions for the
probate of wills, and make and issue all necessary
orders and Writs to enforce the production of wills and
the attendance of Witnesses, and may appoint special
terms of his Court for hearing the petitions, trials of
issues, and admitting Wills to probate.

§ 1306. At the time appointed for, or to
which the hearing may have been postponed, the Court
must require proof, by affidavit, that the notices herein
before required have been personally served or mailed
and published, which being made, the Court must
hear testimony in proof of the will. If such notice is
not proved to have been given, or if; from any other
cause, it is necessary, the hearing may be postponed
to a day certain, and notice to absentees given thereof;
as original notice is required to be given. The appearance in Court of parties interested is a waiver of notice.

§ 1307. Any person interested may appear
and contest the Will. Devisces, legatees, heirs, or
creditors of .an estate may contest the will through
their guardians, or attorneys appointed by themselves
or by the Court for that purpose; but a contest made
by an attorney appointed by the Court does not bar a
contest after probate, by the party so. represented, if
commenced Within the time provided in Article IV
of this Chapter; nor does the non-appointment of an
attorney by the Court of itself invalidate the probate
of a will.

§ 1308. If no person appears to contest the
probate of a Will, the Court may admit it to probate

on the testimony of one of the subscribing witnesses
only, if he testifies that the will was executed in all
particulars as required by law, and that the testator

was of sound mind at the time of its execution.

§ 1309. An olographic will may be proved in the
same manner that other private writings are proved.

§ 1312. If any one appears to contest the
will, he must file written grounds of opposition to the
probate thereof, and serve a copy on the petitioner
and other residents of the county interested in the
estate, any one or more of whom may demur thereto
upon any of the grounds of demurrer provided for in
Part II, Title VI, Chapter LEI of this Code. If the
demurrer is sustained, the Court must allow the contestant a reasonable time, not exceeding ten days,
Within which to amend his Written opposition. If
the demurrer is overruled, the petitioner and others
interested may jointly or separately answer the contestant’s grounds, traversing, or otherwise obviating
or avoiding the objections. Any issues of fact thus
raised, involving: ‘

1. The competency of the decedent to make a last
will and testament; ‘

2. The freedom of the decedent at the time of the

execution of the will from duress, menace, fraud, or
undue influence;

3. The due execution and attestation of the will by
the decedent or subscribing Witnesses; or,

4. Any other questions substantially affecting the
validity of the will;
—Must, on request of either party in writing (filed
three days prior to the day set for the hearing), be
tried by a jury. If no jury is demanded, the Court
must try and determine the issues joined. On the
trial, the contestant is plaintifff, and the petitioner is
defendant.

§ 1313. When a jury is demanded, the
Probate Court must summons and empanel a juryto

. try the case, in the manner provided for summoning

and empaneling trial juries in Courts of record, and
the trial must be conducted in accordance with the
provisions of Part II, Title VIII, Chapter IV of this
Code. A trial by the Court must be conducted as
provided in Part II, Title VIII, Chapter V of this
Code.

§ 1314. The jury, after hearing thecase,
must return a special verdict upon the issues submit»
ted to them by the Court, upon which the judgment
of the Court must be rendered, either admitting the
will to probate or rejecting it. In either case, the
proofs of the subscribing witnesses must be reduced
to writing. If the will is admitted to probate, the
judgment, will, and proofs must be recorded.

§ 1315. If the Willis contested, all the
subscribing witnesses who are present in the county,
and who are of sound mind, must be produced and
examined; and the death, absence, or insanity of any
of them must be satisfactorily shown to the Court. If
none of the subscribing Witnesses reside in the county

at the time appointed for proving the will, the Court
may admit the testimony of other witnesses to prove
the sanity of the testator and the execution of the
will; and, as evidence of the execution, it may admit
proof of the handwriting of the testator and of the
subscribing witnesses, or any of them.

§ 1316. The testimony of each Witness, reduced to Writing and signed by him, shall be good
evidence in any subsequent contests concerning the
validity of the will, or the sufliciency of the proof
thereof, if the Witness be dead, or has permanently
removed from this State. ‘

§ 1317. If the Court is satisfied, upon the
proof taken or from the facts found by the jury, that
the will was duly executed, and that the testator at the
time of its execution was of sound and disposing mind,
and not acting under duress, menace, fraud, or undue
iniluence, a certificate of the proof ' and the facts found,
signed by the Probate Judge and attested by the seal
of the Court, must be attached to the will.

§ 1318. The will and a certificate of the
proof thereof, together with all the testimony taken,
must be filed by the Clerk, and recorded by him in a
book to be provided for the,purpose.

§ 322. Every will duly proved and allowed
in any other of the United States, or in any foreign
country or State, may be allowed and recorded in the

Probate Court of any county in which the testator shall
have left any estate.

§ 1323. When a copy of the will and the
probate thereof, duly authenticated, shall be produced
by the executor, or by any other person interested in
the will, with a petition for letters, the same must be
filed, and the Court or Judge must appoint a time for
the hearing; notice whereof must be given as hereinbefore provided for an original petition for the probate
of a will.

§ 1324. If, on the hearing, it appears upon
the face of the record that the will has been proved,
allowed, and admitted to probate in any other of the
United States, or in any foreign country, and that it was
executed according to the law of the place in which the
same was made, or in which the testator was at the
time domiciled, or in conformity with the laws of this
State, it must be admitted to probate, and have the
same force and effect as a will first admitted to probate
in this State, and letters testamentary or of administration issued thereon.


§ 1327. When a will has been admitted to
probate, any person interested may, at any time within
one year after such probate, contest the same or the

I

validity of the will. For that purpose he must file in
the Court in which the will was proved a petition in
writing, containing his allegations against the validity
of the will or against the sufiiciency of the proof, and
praying that the probate may be revoked.

§ 1328. Upon the filing of the petition, a 5
citation must be issued to the executors of the will, or E
to the administrators with the will annexed, and to all a

the legatees mentioned in the will residing. in the
State, or to their guardians, if any of them are minors,
or their personal representatives, if any of them are
dead, requiring them to appear before the Court.on
some day of a regular term therein specified, to show
cause why the probate of the will should not be
revoked.

F

§ 1329. At the time appointed for showing
cause, or at any time to which the hearing is postponed, personal service of the citations having been
made upon any persons named therein, the Court must
proceed to try the issues of fact joined in the same
manner as in an original contest of a will.

§ 1330. In all cases of petitionsto revoke
the probate of a will, wherein the original probate was
granted without a contest, on written demand of either
party, filed three days prior to the hearing, a trial by
jury must be had, as in cases of the contest of an
original petition to admit a will to probate. If, upon
hearing the proofs of the parties, the jury shall find,
or, if no jury is had, the Court shall decide, that the
will is for any reason invalid, or that it is not sufficiently
proved to be the last will of the testator, the probate
must be annulled and revoked.

§ 1331. Uponthe revocation being made,
the powers of the executor or administrator with the
will annexed, must cease; but such executor or administrator shall not be liable for any act done in good
faith previous to the revocation.

§ 1332. The fees and expenses must be paid
by the party contesting the validity or probate of the
will, if the will in probate is confirmed. If the probate is revoked, the costs must be paid by the party
who resisted the revocation, or out of the property of
the decedent, as the Court directs.

§ 1333. If no person, within one year after
the probate of a Will, contests the same, or the validity
thereof, the probate of the will is conclusive; saving
to infants, married women, and persons of unsound
mind, a like period of one year after their respective
disabilities are removed.


§ 1338. Whenever any Will is lost or destroyed, the Probate Court must take proof of the
execution and validity thereof, and establish the same,
notice to all persons interested being first given, as
prescribed in regard to proofs of wills in other cases.
All the testimony given must be reduced to Writing,
and signed by the witnesses.

§ 1339. No will shall be proved as a lost or
destroyed will, unless the same is proved to have been
in existence at the time of the death of the testator,
or is shown to have been fraudulently destroyed in
the lifetime of the testator, nor unless its provisions

are clearly and distinctly proved by at least two
credible witnesses.

§ 1340. When a lost will is established, the
provisions thereof must be distinctly stated and certified by the Probate Judge, under his hand and the
seal of his Court, and the certificate, together with
the testimony upon which it is founded, must be filed
and recorded as other wills are filed and recorded, and
letters testamentary or of administration with the will
annexed, must be issued thereon, in the same manner
as upon wills produced and duly proved.

§ 1341. If; before on during the pendency
of an application to prove a 'lost or destroyed will,
letters of administration are granted on the estate of
the testator, or letters testamentary of any previous
will of the testator are granted, the Court may restrain
the administrators or executors, so appointed, from
any acts or proceedings which would be injurious to

the legatees or devisees claiming under the lost or_

destroyed will.

§ 1344. Nuncupative wills may at any time,
within six months after the testamentary words are
spoken by the decedent, be admitted to probate, on
petition and notice as provided in Article I, Chapter
IIof this Title. The petition, in addition to the jurisdictional facts, must allege that the testamentary words
or the substance thereof were reduced to writing

Within thirty days after they were spoken, which writing must accompany the petition.

§ 1345. The Probate Court must not receive
or entertain a petition for the probate of a nuncupa
tive Will, until the lapse of fourteen days from the
death of the testator, nor must such petition at any
time be acted on unless the testamentary words are,
or their substance is, reduced to Writing and filed with
the petition, nor until the surviving husband, or wife
(if any), and all other persons resident in the State or
county, interested in the estate, are notified as hereinbefore provided.

§ 1346. Contests of the probate of nuncupative wills
and appointments of executors and administrators of

the estate devised thereby must be had, conducted,
and made as hereinbefore provided in cases of the

probate of written wills.


§ 1349. The Court admitting a will to probate, after the same is proved and allowed, must issue
letters thereon to the persons named therein as executors, who are competent to discharge the trust, who
must appear and qualify, unless objection is made, as
provided in Section 1351.

§ 1350. No person is competent to serve
as executor who, at the time the will is admitted to
probate, is:

1. Under the age of majority;

'2. Convicted of an infamous crime;

3. Adjudged by the Court incompetent to execute
the duties of the trust by reason of drunkenness, improvidence, or want of understanding or integrity.

If the sole executor or all the executors are incompetent, or renounce or fail to apply for letters, or to
appear and qualify, letters of administration with the
will annexed must be issued.

§ 1351. Any person interested in a will
may file objections in writing, to granting letters testamentary to the persons named as executors, or any
of them; and the objections must be heard and determined by the Court. A petition may, at the same
time, be filed for letters of administration, with the
will annexed.

§ 1352. When an unmarried iavoman,
appointed executrix, marries, her authority is extinguished. When a married Woman is named as exect utrix, she may be appointed and serve in every respect

as a feme sole.

§ 1353. No executor of an executor shall,
as such, be authorized to administer on the estate of
the first testator, but on the death of the sole or surviving executor of any last will, letters of administration with the will annexed, of the_ estate of the first
testator, left unadministered, must be issued.

§ 1354. Where a person absent from the
State, or a minor is named executor—if there is another executor who accepts the trust and qualitiesthe latter may have letters testamentary and administer the estate until the return of the absentee or the
majority of the minor, who may then be admitted as
joint executor. If there is no other executor, letters
of administration, with the will annexed, must be
granted; but the Court may, in its discretion, revoke
them on the return of the absent executor or the arrival of the minor at the age of majority.

§ 1355. When all the executors named are
not appointed by the Court, those appointed have the
same authority topperform all acts and discharge the
trust, required by the will, as effectually for every purpose as if all were appointed and should act together;
where there are two executors or administrators, the
act of one alone shall be effectual, if the other is absent
from the State, or laboring under any legal disability
from serving, or if he has given his co-executor or coadministrator authority,_ in Writing, to act for both;

and where there are more than two executors or
administrators, the act of a majority is valid.

§ 1356. Administrators with the will .
annexed have the same authority over 'the estates A

which executors named in the Will would have, and
their acts are as effectual for all purposes. Their letters must be signed by the Clerk of the Court, and
bear the seal thereof.

§ 1360. Letters testamentary must be substantially in the following form: State of California,
County of The last will of A. B., deceased, a
copy of which is hereto annexed, having been proved
and recorded in the Probate Court of the County of
—, C. D., who is named therein, is hereby appointed

executor. Witness, G. H., Clerk of the Probate Court

. of the County of —, with the seal of the Court

affixed, the — day of —-, A. D. 18-—. (Seal). By
order of the Court, G. H., Clerk.

§ 1361. Letters of administration with the
will annexed must be substantially in the following
form: State of California, County of —-—-. The last
will of A. B., deceased, a copy of which is hereto
annexed, having been proved and recorded in the Probate Court of the County of , and there being no
executor named in the will (or as the case may be),
C. D. is hereby appointed administrator with the will
annexed. Witness, G. H., Clerk of the Probate Court
of the County of ——, with the seal of the Court

affixed, the —— day of —, A. D. 18-—. (Seal). By
order of the Court, G. H., Clerk.

§ 1362. Letters of administration must be
signed by the Clerk, under the seal of the Court, and
substantially in the following form: State of California, County of —. C. D. is hereby appointed administrator of the estate of A. B., deceased. (Seal)
Witness, G. H., Clerk of the Probate Court of the
County of ——, with the seal thereof aifixed, the ——

day of , A. D. 18-. By order of the Court, G.
H., Clerk.


§ 1365. Administration of the estate of a
person dying intestate must be granted to some one or
more of the persons hereinafter mentioned, and they
are respectively entitled thereto in the following order:

1. The surviving husband or wife, or some competent person whom he or she may request to have
appointed;

2. The children;

3. The father or mother;

4. The brothers;

5. The sisters;

6. ‘The grandchildren;

7. The next of kin entitled to share in the distribu

tion of the estate;
8. The creditors;

9. The Public Administrator; 1
10. Any person legally competent. _
If the decedent was a member of a partnership at

the time of his decease, the surviving partner must in
no case be appointed administrator of his estate.

§ 1366. Of several persons claiming and :
equally entitled to administer, males must be preferred to females, and relatives of the whole to those
of the half blood.

1

§ 1367. When there are several persons
equally entitled to the administration, the Court may
grant letters to one or more of them; and when a
creditor is claiming letters the Court may, in its dis- ‘
cretion, at the request of another creditor, grant letters to any other person legally competent.

§ 1368. If any person entitled to administration is a minor, letters must be granted to his or

her guardian, or any other person entitled to letters of
administration, in the discretion of the Court.

§ 1369. No person is competent to serve as
administrator or administratrix Who, When appointed,
1s:
1. Under the age of majority;

2. Convicted of an infamous crime;

3. Adjudged by the Court incompetent to execute
the duties of the trust by reason of drunkenness, improvidence, or want of understanding or integrity.

§ 1370. A married Woman must not be appointed administratrix. When an unmarried Woman
appointed administratrix marries, her authority is
extinguished.

§ 1371. Petitions for letters of administration must be in writing, signed by the applicant or his
counsel, and filed with the Clerk of the Court, stating
the facts essential to give the Court jurisdiction of the
case, and when known to the applicant, he must state
the names, ages, and residence of the heirs of the
decedent, and the value and character of the property.
If the jurisdictional facts existed, but are not fully set
forth in the petition, and are a&erWards proved in the
course of administration, the decree or order of administration and subsequent proceedings are not void on
account of such want of jurisdictional averments.

§ 1372. Letters of administration may be
granted at a regular term of the Court, or at a special
term appointed by the Judge for the hearing of the
application.

§ 1373. When a petition praying for letters
of administration is filed, the Clerk must give notice

‘thereof by causing notices to be posted in at least three

public places in the county, one of which must be at
the place where the Court is held, containing the name
of the decedent, the name of the app1icant,.and the
term of the Court at which the application will be
heard. Such notice must be given at least ten days
before the hearing.

§ 1374. Any person interested may contest
the petition, by filing written opposition thereto, on
the ground of the incompetency of the applicant, or
may assert his own rights to the administration and
pray that letters be issued to himself. In the latter
case the contestant must file a petition and give the
notice required for an original petition, and the Court
must hear the two petitions together.

§ 375. On the hearing, it being first proved
that notice has been given as herein required, the
Court must hear the allegations and proofs of the parties, and order the issuing of letters of administration
to the party best entitled thereto.

§ 1376. An entry in the minutes of the
Court, that the required proof was made and notice
given, shall be conclusive evidence of the fact of such
notice.

§ 1377. Letters of administration must be
granted to any applicant, though it appears that there
are other persons having better rights to the administration, when such persons fail to appear and claim
the issuing of letters to themselves.

§ 1378. Before letters of administration are
granted on the estate of any person who is represented
to have died intestate, the fact of his dying intestate
must be proved by the testimony of the applicant or
others; and the Court may also examine any other
person concerning the time, place, and manner of his
death, the place of his residence at the time, the value
and character of his property, and whether or not the
decedent left any Will, and may compel any person. to
attend as a witness for that purpose.

§ 1379. Administration may be grantedto
one or more competent persons, although not entitled
to the same, at the written request of the person
entitled, filed in the Court. When the person entitled
is a non-resident of the State, afddavits or depositions,
taken ex parte before any ofdcer authorized by the
laws of this State to take acknowledgments and administer oaths out of this State, may be received as
primary evidence of the identity of the party, if free
from suspicion, and the fact is established to the satisfaction of the Court.

§ 1383. When letters of administration have
been granted to any person other than the surviving
husband or wife, child, father, mother, brother, or sister of the intestate, any one of them may obtain the
revocation of the letters and be entitled to the administration, by presenting to the Probate Court a petition
praying the revocation, and that letters of administration may be issued to him.

§ 1384. When such petition is filed, the
Clerk must issue a citation to the administrator to
appear and answer the same on some day of a regular
term of the Court, or a special term appointed by the
Court or Judge for the hearing thereof.

§ 1385. At the time appointed, the citation
ha.\\7‘1'€ng been duly served and returned, the Court must

pro eed to hear the allegations and proofs of the par\

ties; and if the right of the applicant is established,
and he is competent, letters of administration must be
granted to him, and the letters of the former administrator revoked.

§ 1386. The surviving husband or Wife,
when letters of administration have been granted to a
child, father, brother, or sister of the intestate; or
any of such relatives, when letters have been granted
to any other of them, may assert his prior right, and
obtain letters of administration, and have the letters
before granted revoked in the manner prescribed in
the three preceding sections.


§ 1387. Before letters testamentary or of
administration are issued to the executor or administrator, he must take and subscribe an oath before some
ofdcer authorized to administer oaths, that he will
perform, according to law, the duties of executor or
administrator, which oath must be attached to the

. letters. All letters testamentary and of administration issued to, and all bonds executed by executors or
administrators, with the anidavits and certiiiaates
thereon, must be forthwith recorded by the Clerk of
the Court having jurisdiction of the estates, in books
to be kept by him in his oihce for that purpose.

§ 1388. Every person to whom letters testamentary or of administration are directed to issue,
must, before receiving them, execute a bond to the
State of California, with two or more sufficient sureties, to be approved by the Probate Judge. In form,
the bond must be joint and several, and the penalty
must not be less than twice the value of the personal
property, and twice the probable value of the annual
rents, profits, and issues of the real property belonging to the estate, which values must be ascertained by
the Probate Judge, by examining on oath the party
applying, and any other persons.

§ 1389. The Probate Judge must require
an additional bond whenever the sale of any real
estate belonging to an estate is ordered by him; but
no such additional bond must be required when it satisfactorily appears to the Court that the penalty of the
bond given before receiving letters, or of any bond
given in place thereof, is equal to twice the value of
the personal property remaining in, or that will come
into, the possession of the executor or administrator,
including the annual rents, profits, and issues of real
estate, and twice the probable amount to be realized
on the sale of the real estate ordered to be sold.

§ 1390. The bond must be conditioned that
the executor or administrator shall faithfully execute
the duties of the trust according to law.

§ 1391. When two or more persons are
appointed executors or administrators, the Probate
Judge must require and take a separate bond from
each of them.

§ 1392. The bond shall not be void upon
the first recovery, but may be sued and recovered upon
from time to time, by any person aggrieved, in his own
name, until the whole penalty is exhausted.

§ 1393. In all cases where bonds or undertakings are required to be given, under this Title, the
sureties must justify thereon in the same manner and
in like amounts as required by Section 1057 of this
Code, and the certihcate thereof must be attached to,
and filed and recorded with the bond or undertaking.
All such bonds and undertakings must be approved by
the Probate Judge before being filed or recorded.

§ 1394. Before the Probate Judge approves
any bond required under this Title, he may of his own
motion, or at any time after the approval of such bond,
upon the motion of any person interested in the estate,
supported by affidavit that any one or all of such sureties are not Worth as much as they have justihed to,
order a citation to issue, requiring such sureties to
appear before him, at a certain time and place, to testify touching their property and its value; and the
Judge must, at the time such citation is issued, cause
a notice to be issued to the executor or administrator,
requiring his appearance at the return of the citation.
Upon the return of the citation, the Judge may swear
the sureties, and such witnesses as may be produced,
touching the property of such sureties and its value;
and if, upon such investigation, the Judge is satisfied

that the bond is insufficient, he may require suiiicient
additional security, within such time as may be reasonable, not less than five days.

§ 1395. If sui’n"cient security is not given
Within the time fixed by the J udge’s order, the right
of such executor or administrator to the administration shall cease, and the person next entitled to the
administration on the estate, who will execute a sufIicient bond, must be appointed to the administration.

§ 1396. When it is expressly provided in
the will of a testator, that no bond is required of the
executor, letters testamentary may issue and salesof
real estate be made and connrmed without any bond
being given; but an executor to Whom letters are
issued Without bond, may, at any time afterward (when
it appears from any cause necessary or proper), be
required to file a bond as in other cases.

§ 1397. Any person interested in an estate
may, by verified petition, represent to the Probate
Judge that the sureties of - the executor or administrator thereof have become or are becoming insolvent, or
that they have removed or are about to remove from
the State, or that from any other cause the bond is
insui’n"cient, and ask that further security be required.

§ 1398. If the Probate Judge is satisfied
that the maqer requires investigation, a citation must
be issued to the executor or administrator, requiring
him to appear, at a time and place to be therein specified, to show cause why he should not give further
security. The citation must be served personally on
the executor or administrator, at least five days before
the return day. If he has absconded, or cannot be
found, it may be served by leaving a copy of it at his
last place of residence, or by such publication as the
Court or J udge may order.

§ 1399. On the return of the citation, or at
such other time as the Judge may appoint, he must
proceed to hear the proofs and allegations of the parties. If it satisfactorily appears that the security is,
from any cause, insufficient, he may make an order
requiring the executor or administrator to give further
security, or to file a new bond in the usual form within
a reasonable time, not less than five days.

§ 1400. If the executor or administrator
neglects to comply with the order within the time prescribed, the Judge must, by order, revoke his letters,
and his authority must thereupon cease.

§ 1401. When a petition is presented praying that an executor or administrator be required to
give further security, or to give bond, where, by the
terms of the will, no bond was originally required, and
it is alleged, on oath, that the executor or administrator is wasting the property of the estate, the Judge

may, by order, suspend his powers until the matter
can be heard and determined.

§ 1402. When it comes to his knowledge
that the bond of any executor or administrator is, from
any cause, insufficient, the Probate Judge, without any
application, must cause him to be cited to appear and
show cause why he should not give further security,

and must proceed thereon as upon the application of
any person interested.

§ 1403. When a surety of any executor or
administrator desires to be released from responsibility
on account of future acts, he may make application to
the Probate Court or Judge for relief. The Court or
Judge must cause a citation to the executor or administrator to be issued, and served personally, requiring
him to appear at a time and place to be therein specified, and to give other security. If he has absconded,

left, or removed hem the State, or if he cannot be
found after due diligence and inquiry, service may be
made as provided in Section 1398.

§ 1404. If new sureties be given to the atisfaction of the Judge, he may thereupon make an order
that the sureties who applied for relief shall not be
liable on their bond for any subsequent act, default, or
misconduct of the executor or administrator.

§ 1405. If the executor or administrator
neglects or refuses to give new sureties, to the satisfaction of the Judge, on the return of the citation, or
Within such reasonable time as the Judge shall allow,
unless the surety making the application shall consent
to a longer extension of time, the Court or Judge must,
by order, revoke his letters.

§ 1406. The applications authorized by the
nine preceding sections of this Chapter may be heard
and determined out of term time. All orders made
therein must be entered upon the minutes of the
Court.

§ 1411. When there is delay in
granting letters testamentary or of administration,
from any cause, or when such letters are granted
irregularly, or no sufiicient bond is filed as required,
or when no application is made for such letters, or

when an administrator or executor dies, or is suspended or removed, the Probate Judge must appoint
a special administrator to collect and take charge of
the estate of the decedent, in whatever county or
counties the same may be found, and to exercise such
other powers as may be necessary for the preservation
of the estate; or he may direct the Public Administrator of his county to take charge of the estate.

§ 1412. The appointment may be made out
of term time, and without notice, and must be made
by entry upon the minutes of the Court, specifying
the powers to be exercised by the administrator.
Upon such order being entered, and after the person
appointed has given bond, the Clerk must issue letters
of administration to such person, in conformity with
the order. "

§ 1413. ‘In making the appointment of a
special administrator, the Probate Judge must give
preference to the person entitled to letters testamentary or of administration, but no appeal ,must be
allowed from the appointment.

§ 1414. Before any letters issue to any special administrator, he must give bond in such sum as
the Probate Judge may direct, with sureties to the satisfaction of the Judge, conditioned for the faithful performance of his duties; and he must take the usual
oath and have the same indorsed on his letters.

§ 1415. The special administrator must collect and preserve for the executor or administrator, all
the goods, chattels, debts, and effects of the decedent,
all incomes, rents, issues, and profits, claims, and demands, of the estate; must take the charge and management of, enter upon and preserve from damage,
waste, and injury, the real estate, and for any such

and all necessary purposes may commence and maintain, or defend, suits and other legal proceedings, as an
administrator; he may sell such perishable propertyas
the Probate Court may order to be sold, and exercise
such other powers as are conferred upon him by his
appointment, but in no case is he liable to an action
by any creditor on a claim against the decedent.

§ 1416. When letters testamentary or of
administration on the estate of the ‘decedent have
been granted, the powers of the special administrator
cease, and he must forthwith deliver to the executor
or administrator all the property and eifects of the
decedent in his hands; and the executor or administrator may prosecute to final judgment any suit commenced by the special administrator.

§ 1417. The special administrator must render an account, on oath, of his proceedings, in like
manner as other administrators are required to do.ARTICLE VIII.

§ 1423. If, aiter granting letters of administration on the ground of intestacy, a will of the decedent

is duly proved and allowed by the Court, the letters of

administration must be revoked, and the power of the
administrator ceases, and he must render an account
of his administration within such time as the Court
shall direct.

§ 1424. In such case, the executor or the
administrator with the will annexed is entitled to
demand, sue for, recover, and collect all the rights,
goods, chattels, debts, and effects of the decedent
remaining unadministered, and may prosecute to final
judgment any suit commenced by the administrator
before the revocation of his letters of administration.

§ 1425. In case any one of several executors or administrators, to whom -letters are. granted,
dies, becomes lunatic, is convicted of an infamous
crime, or otherwise becomes incapable of executing
the trust; or in case the letters testamentary or of
administration are revoked or annulled, with respect
to any one executor or administrator, the remaining
executor or administrator must proceed to complete

. the execution of the will or administration.

§ 1426. If all such executors or administrators die or become incapable, or the power and
authority of all of them is revoked, the Probate Court
must issue letters of administration with the will
annexed, or otherwise, to the widow, or next of kin,
or others, in the same order and manner as is directed
in relation to original letters of administration. The
administrators so appointed must give bond in the like
penalty, with like sureties and conditions, as hereinbefore required of administrators, and shall have the
like power and authority.

§ 1427. Any executor or administrator
may, at any time, by writing, filed in the Probate
Court, resign his appointment, having first settled his
accounts and delivered up all the estate to the person

whom the Court shall appoint to receive the same.
If, however, by reason of any dela.ys in such settlement and delivering up of the estate, or for any other
cause, the circumstances of the estate or the rights of
those interested therein require it, the Court may, at
any time before settlement of accounts and delivering
up of the estate is completed, revoke the letters of
such executor or administrator, and appoint in his
stead an administrator, either special or general, in the
same manner as is directed in relation to original let

' ters of administration. The liability of the outgoing

executor or administrator, or of the sureties on his
bond, shall not be in any manner discharged, released,
or affected, by such appointment or resignation.

§ 1428. All acts of an executor or administrator, as such, before the revocation of his letters
testamentary or of administration, are as valid, to all
intents and purposes, as if such executor or administrator had continued lawfully to execute the duties of
his trust.

§ 1429. A transcript from the minutes of
the Court, showing the appointment of any person as
executor or administrator, together with the certificate
of the Clerk, under his hand and the seal of his Court,
that such person has given bond and been qualified,
and that letters testamentary or of administration have
been issued to him and have not been revoked, shall
have the same effect in evidence as the letters themselves. '

§ 1430. No Probate Court shall admit'to
probate any will, or grant letters testamentary or of
administration, in any case Where the Judge thereof
is interested as next of kin to the decedent, or as a
legatee or devisee under the Will, or when he is named
as executor or trustee in the will, or is a Witness

thereto, or is in any other manner interested or disqualified from acting.

§ 1431. When a petition is filed in the
Probate Court, praying for admission to probate of a
will, or for granting letters testamentary or of administration, or when proceedings are pending in the Probate Court for the settlement of an estate, and the
presiding Judge of the Court is disqualified to act
from any cause, upon his own or the motion of any
person interested in the estate, he must make an order
transferring the proceeding to the Probate Court of
an adjoining county; and the Clerk of the Court
ordering the transfer must transmit, to the Clerk of
the Court to which the proceeding is ordered to be
transferred, a certified copy of the order, and all the
papers on file in his office in the proceeding; and
thereafter the Probate Court to which the proceeding
is transferred shall exercise the same authority and
jurisdiction over the estate, and all matters relating to
the administration thereof, as if it had original jurisdiction of the Qtate.

§ 1432. The transfer of a proceeding from
one Court to another, as provided for in the preceding section, shall not affect the right of any person to letters testamentary or of administration on the estate
transferred, but the same persons are entitled to letters
testamentary or of administration on the estate in the

order hereinbefore provided. If, before the administration is closed of any estate so transferred, as herein
proyided, another person is elected or appointed, and
qualified, as Probate Judge of the county wherein such
proceeding was originally commenced, who is not dis
qualiiied to act in the settlement of the estate, and the
causes for which the proceeding was transferred no
longer exist, any person interested in the estate may
have the proceeding returned to the Court from which
it was originally transferred, by filing a petition setting
forth these facts, and moving the Court therefore.

§ 1433. On hearing the motion, if the facts
required by the preceding section to be set out in the
petition are satisfactorily shown, and it further appears
to the Court that the convenience of parties interested
would be promoted by such change, the Judge must
make an order transferring the proceeding back to
the Probate Court where it was originally commenced;
and the Clerk of the Court ordering the transfer must
transmit to the Clerk of the Court in which the proceeding was originally commenced a certified copy of
the order, and all the original papers on file in his office
in the proceeding; and the Court where the proceeding was originally commenced shall thereafter have.

jurisdiction and power to make all necessary orders
and decrees to close up the administration of the estate.

§ 1436. Whenever the Probate Judge has
reason to believe, from his own knowledge or from
credible information, that any executor or administrator has wasted, embezzled, or mismanaged, or is
about to waste or embezzle the property of the estate
committed to his charge, or has committed or is about
to commit a fraud upon the estate, or is incompetent
to act, or has permanently removed from the State, or
has wrongfully neglected the estate, or has long neglected to perform any act as such executor or administrator, he must, by an order entered upon the minutes
of the Court, suspend the powers of such executor or
administrator until the matter is investigated.

§ 1437. When such suspension is made,

notice thereof must be given to the executor or administrator, and he must be cited to appear and show cause
why his letters should not be revoked. If he fail to
appear in obedience to the citation, or, if appearing,
the Court is satisfied that there exists cause for his
removal, his letters must be revoked, and letters of
administration granted anew, as the case may require.

§ 1438. At the hearing, any person interested in the estate may appear and file his allegations
in writing, showing that the executor or administrator
should be removed; to which the executor or administrator may demur or answer, as hereinbefore provided.

The issues raised must be heard and determined by
the Court.

§ 1439. If the executor or administrator
has absconded or conceals himself, or has removed or
absented himself from the State, notice may be given
him of the pendency of the proceedings by publication, in such manner as the Court may direct, and the
Court may proceed upon such notice as if the citation
had been personally served.

§ 1440. In the proceedings authorized by

I the preceding sections of this Article, for the removal

of an executor or administrator, the Court may compel
his attendance by attachment, and may compel him to
answer questions, on oath, touching his administration,
and, upon his refusal so to do, may commit him until
he obey, or may revoke his letters, or both.

§ 1443. Every executor or administrator
must make and return to the Court, at its first term
after his appointment, a true inventory and appraisement of all the estate of the decedent, including the
homestead, if any, which has come to his possession
or knowledge.

§ 1444. To make the appraisement, the
Probate Judge or Court must appoint three disinterested persons (any two 'of Whom may act), who are
entitled to receive a reasonable compensation for their
services, not to exceed five dollars per day, to be
allowed by the Court or Judge. The appraisers must,
with the inventory, file a verified account of their services and disbursements. If any part-of the estate is
in any other county than that in which letters issued,
appraisers thereof may be appointed, either by the
Probate Judge having jurisdiction of the estate or by
the Probate Judge of such other county, on request of
the Judge having jurisdiction.

§ 1445. Before proceeding to the execution of their duty, the appraisers, before any officer ,
authorized to administer oaths, 'must take and sub- A

scribe an oath, to be attached to the inventory, that
they will truly, honestly, and impartially appraise the
property exhibited to them, according to the best of
their knowledge and ability. They must then proceed
to estimate and appraise the property; each article
must be set down separately, with the value thereof
in dollars and cents, in figures, opposite to the articles respectively; the inventory must contain all the
estate of the decedent, real and personal, a statement
of all debts, partnerships, and other interests, bonds,
mortgages, notes, and other securities for the payment
of money belonging to the decedent, specifying ‘the
name of the debtor in each security, the date, the
sum originally payable, the indorsements thereon (if
any), with their dates, and the sum which, in the
judgment of the appraiser, may be collected on each

debt, interest, or security; the inventory must show,
so far as the same can be ascertained by the executor
or the administrator, what portion of the property is
community property and what portion is the separate
property of the decedent.

§ 1446. The inventory must also contain
an account of all monies belonging to the decedent
which have come to the hands of the executor or
administrator, and if none, the fact must be so stated
in the inventory. If the Whole estate consists of
money, there need not be an appraisement, but an
inventory must be made and returned as in other
cases.

§ 1447. The naming of a person as executor does not thereby discharge him from any just
claim which the testator has against him, but the
claim must be included in the inventory, and the
executor is liable for the same, as for so much money
in his hands, when the debt or demand becomes due.

§ 1448. The discharge or bequest in a will,
of any debt or demand of the testator against the
executor named, or any other person, is not valid
against the creditors of the decedent, but is a specific
bequest of the debt or demand. It must be included
in the inventory, and, if necessary, applied in the payment of the debts. If not necessary for that purpose,
it must be paid in the same manner and proportion as
other specific legacies.

§ 1449. The inventory must be signed by
the appraisers, and the executor or administrator must
take and subscribe an oath before an officer authorized
to administer oaths, that the inventory contains a true
statement of all the estate of the decedent which has
come to his knowledge and possession, and particularly
of all money belonging to the decedent, and of all just

claims of the decedent against the atiiant. The oath
must be indorsed upon or annexed to the inventory.

§ 1450. If an executor or administrator
neglects or refuses to return the inventory within the
time prescribed, or within such further time, not exceeding two months, which the Court or Judge shall,
for reasonable cause, allow, the Court may, upon notice,
revoke the letters testamentary or of administration,
and the executor or administrator is liable on his bond
for any injury to the estate, or any person interested
therein, arising from such failure.

§ 1451. Whenever property not mentioned
in an inventory that is made and filed, comes to the
possession or knowledge of an executor or administrator, he must cause the same to be appraised in the
manner prescribed in this Article, and an inventory
thereof to be returned within two months after the
discovery; and the making of such inventory may be

enforced, after notice, by attachment or removal from
office.

§ 1452. The executor or administrator is
entitled to the possession of all the real and personal
estate of the decedent, and to receive the rents and
profits of the real estate, until the estate is settled, or
until delivered over by order of the Probate Court to
the heirs or devisees; and must keep in good tenantable repair all houses, buildings, and fixtures thereon,
which are under his control. The heirs or devisees
may themselves, or jointly with the executor or administrator, maintain an action for the possession of the
real estate, or for the purpose of quieting title to the
same, against any one except the executor or administrator.

§ 1453. Unless it satisfactorily appears to the Probate Court, that the rents, issues, and profits of the

real estate for a longer period, are necessary to be re.ceived by the executor or administrator, wherewith

to pay the debts of the decedent, or that it will probably be necessary to sell the real estate for the payment
of such debts, at the end of ten months from the
first publication of the notice to creditors, the Court
must direct the executor or administrator to deliver
possession of all the real estate to the heirs at law or

devisees.

§ 1458. If any person before the granting
of letters testamentary or of administration, embezzles or alienates any of the monies, goods, chattels,
or effects of a decedent, he is chargeable therewith,
and liable to an action by the executor or administrator of the estate, for double the value of the property so embezzled or alienated, to be recovered for the

benefit of the estate.

§ 1459. If any executor, administrator, or
other person interested in the estate of a decedent,
complains to the Probate Judge, on oath, that any person is suspected to have concealed, embezzled, smuggled, conveyed away, or disposed of any monies,
goods, or chattels of the decedent, or has in his possession or knowledge, any deeds, conveyances, bonds,
contracts, or other Writings, which contain evidences
of, or tend to disclose the right, title, interest, or

claim of the decedent to any real or personal estate,
or any claim or demand, or any last will, the Judge
may cite such person to appear before the Probate
Court, and may examine him on oath upon thematter
of such complaint. If such person is not in the county
where letters have been granted, he may be cited and
examined, either before the Probate Court of the county
where he is found, or before the Court issuing the citation. But if in the latter case he appears and is found
innocent, his necessary expenses must be allowed him
out of the estate.

§ 1460. If the person so cited refuses to
appear and submit to an examination, or to answer
such interrogatories as may be put to him, touching
the matters of the complaint, the Court may, by warrant for that purpose, commit him to the County Jail,
there to remain in close custody until he submits to
the order of the Court or is discharged according to
law. If, upon such examination, it appears that he
has concealed, embezzled, smuggled, conveyed away,
or disposed of any monies, goods, or chattels of the
decedent, or that he has in his possession or knowledge, any deeds, conveyances, bonds, contracts, or
other writings, tending to disclose the right, title,
interest, or claim of the decedent to any real or personal estate, claim, or demand, or any lost will of the
decedent, the Probate Court may make an order
requiring such person to disclose his knowledge thereof
to the executor or administrator, and may commit him
to the County Jail, there to remain until the order is
complied with or he is discharged according to law;
and all such interrogatories and answers must be in
Writing, signed by the party examined, and filed in
the Probate Court. The order for such disclosure,
made upon such examination, is primary evidence of

the right of such administrator to such property in

any action brought for the recovery thereof; and any
judgment recovered therein must be for double the
value of the property as assessed by the Court or jury,
or for return of the property, and damages in addion
thereto, equal to the value of such property. In addition to the examination of the party, witnesses may
be produced and examined on either side.

§ 1461. The Probate Judge, upon the complaint, on oath, of any executor or administrator, may

cite any person who has been entrusted with any part
of the estate of the decedent, to appear before such
Court, and require him to render a full account, on
oath, of any monies, goods, chattels, bonds, accounts,
or other property or papers belonging to the estate,

. which have come to his possession in trust for the

executor or administrator, and of his proceedings
thereon; and if the person so cited refuses to appear
and render such account, the Court may proceed
against him as provided in the preceding section.

§ 1464. When a person dies leaving a

widow or minor children, the Widow or children, until

letters are granted and the inventory is returned, are
entitled to remain in possession of the homestead, of
all the wearing apparel of the family, and of all the
household furniture of the decedent, and are also entitled to a reasonable provision fdr their support, to be
allowed by the Probate Judge.

§ 1465. Upon the return of the inventory,
or at any subsequent time during the administration,
the Court or the Probate Judge may, on his own motion or on petition therefore, set apart for the use of
the surviving husband or Wife, or the minor children
of the decedent, all property exempt from execution,
including the homestead selected, designated, and recorded. If none has been selected, designated, and
recorded, the Judge or the Court must select, designate, set apart, and cause to be recorded, a homestead
for the use of the persons hereinbefore named, in the
manner provided in Article II of this Chapter, out of
the real estate belonging to the decedent.

§ 1466. If the amount set apart be insufficient for the support of the Widow and children, or
either, the Probate Court or Judge must make such
reasonable allowance out of the estate as shall be necessary for the maintenance of the family, according to
their circumstances, during the progress of the settlement of the estate; which, in case of an insolvent.

estate, must not be longer than one year after granting
letters testamentary or of administration.

§ 1467. Any allowance made by the Court
or Judge, in accordance with the provisions of this Article, must be paid in preference to all other charges,
except funeral charges and expenses of administration;
and any such allowance, Whenever made, may, in the
discretion of the Court or Judge, take effect from the
death of the decedent.

§ 1468. When property is set apart for the
use of the family, in accordance with the provisions of
this Chapter, if the decedent left a widow and no minor
child, such property is the property of the Widow. If
he left also a minor child or children, the one half of
such property shall belong to the widow and the
remainder to the child, or in equal shares to the children, if there are more than one. If there is no widow,
the whole belongs to the minor child or children.

§ 1469. If, on the return of the inventory
of the estate of an intestate, it appears that the value
of the whole estate does not exceed the sum of fifteen
hundred dollars, the Probate Court, by a decree for
that purpose, must assign for the use and support of
the widow and minor child or children, if there be a
Widow or minor child, and if no widow, then for the
children, if there are any,,the Whole of the estate, after
the payment of the expenses of his last illness, funeral
charges, and expenses of the administration, and there
must be no further proceedings in the administration
unless further estate be discovered; and when it so
appears that the value of the whole estate does not
exceed the sum of three thousand dollars, it is in the
discretion of the Probate Court to dispense with the
regular proceedings, or any part thereof‘, prescribed in
this Title, and there must be had a summary administration of the estate, and an order of distribution
thereof at the end of six months after the issuing of
letters; the notice to creditors must be given to present their claims within four months after the first
publication of such notice, and those not so presented
arebarred as in other cases.

§ 1470. If the widow has a maintenance
derived from her own property equal to the portion set
apart to her by the preceding sections of this Article,
the whole property so set apart, other than‘ her half of
the homestead, must go to the minor children.

§ 1474. The homestead selected by the busband and wife, or either of them, during their coverture, and recorded while both are living, on the death
of the husband or wife vests absolutely in the survivor,
and is not, nor is theproceeds of a sale thereof; subject to the payment of any debt or liability contracted
by or existing against the husband and wife, or either
of them, previous to or at the time of'the death of
such husband or wife, except such mortgage or lien as
the homestead was subject to at the time of the death
of such husband or wife. ’

§ 1475. If the homestead selected and
recorded prior to the death of the decedent is returned
in the inventory, appraised at not exceeding five thousand dollars in value, the Probate Court must, by order,
set it off to the persons in whom title is vested by the
preceding section. If there are subsisting liens or
encumbrances on the homestead, they must be paid
out of the funds of the estate, if there remain suf£cient for that purpose, after the payment of all claims
allowed against the estate.

§ 1476. If the homestead, as selected and recorded,
‘is appraised at, more than five thousand dollars, the

appraisers must, before they make their return, adxmeasure and set apart such portion of the original
homestead, including the residence, or such portion of
the residence as does not exceed five thousand dollars
in value, and make report thereof, giving the metes,
bounds, and full description of the property and
appurtenances by them set apart as a homestead; the
appraisers must, at the same time, repoit the value of
the entire house, if they have partitioned it; also, the
house and the largest portion of the immediately adjacent land and buildings, which, together, do not exceed
five thousand dollars in value.

§ 1477. Any two of the appraisers concurring may
discharge the duties imposed upon the three, and
make the report. A dissenting report may be made
by the third appraiser. The report must state fully
the acts of the appraisers. Both reports may be heard
and considered by the Court in determining a confirmation or rejection of the majority report, but the
minority report must in no case be confirmed.

§ 1478. When the report of the appraisers is filed,
the Court must set a. day for hearing any objections
thereto, from any one interested in the estate: There
must be given the same notice thereof as is required
in Article I, Chapter II, of the probate of a Will. The
objections must be in Writing, and, together with such
witnesses as may be produced for and against the report, be heard by the Court. If the Court is satisfied
that the appraisement, or the partition and appraisement, was fairly and honestly conducted and made, the
report, appraisement, and partition must be confirmed;
if not, rejected.

§ 1479. If the report is rejected, and no appeal is
taken therefrom, or if from any cause the first appraisers fail to make the‘ required report, the Court must
appoint three disinterested householders, residents of
the county, to appraise and admeasure the homestead,
who must be sworn thereto, perform the duties and
make report thereof; and the same proceedings for the
confirmation or rejection thereof must be had as provided in the two preceding sections. If the report is
again rejected, and no appeal is taken, the Court must
direct the homestead claimant to bring action for partition of the homestead, in the District Court, and
must set apart the homestead as directed by the District Court.

§ 1480. Instead of dividing a house or the land
embraced in the homestead selected and recorded,

the person entitled to the homestead by descent has
the right to pay to the estate the excess of value at
which the same is appraised over five thousand dollars, and the Court must make an order directing the
executor or administrator to execute a deed therefore,
conveying to him all the interest of the’ estate therein.
If the claimant declines to make such payment, and
prefers receiving the value of the homestead’ rather
than a partition between him and the estate, any of
the heirs or devisees may pay the appraised value and
take a deed from the estate and’ the homestead claimant. Five thousand dollars of the purchase money
must be paid by order of the Court, to the person
entitled to the homestead.

§ 1481. If no homestead is selected, designated, and
recorded prior to the death of the decedent, any of the
persons named in Section 1474, entitled to succeed
to a homestead, may petition the Probate Court to
admeasure, appraise, and set apart to them a homestead, from the real estate belonging to the decedent. The petition must set forth the name of the
petitioner, his relation to decedent, the land from
which it is desired to make the selection, the portion
thereof selected, and its estimated value, and whether
the same is community or separate property “of the
decedent, or owned by decedent as joint tenant or
tenant in common.

§ 1482. If the land from which the selection of the
homestead is to be made, is owned by the decedent as
joint tenant or tenant in common, the Probate Court
must so order, and the executor or administrator must
proceed to have partition thereof made by action in
the District Court, as provided in this Code; and when
partition is so made and certified to the Probate Court,
the Probate Court must, if the portion set apart tothe
estate does not exceed live thousand dollars in value,

set the same apart to the claimant, if entitled thereto,
and cause the same to be recorded; or,‘ if a sale is bad
of the land by decree of the District or Probate Court,
the proceeds of the sale belonging to the estate, not

exceeding five thousand dollars, must be paid to such
claimant. ‘

§ 1483. If the land and appurtenances from which
the selection of a homestead is sought, is community
or separate property of the decedent, on filing the
petition the Court must appoint appraisers, and cause
the same to be admeasured, appraised, reported, and
confirmed or rejected, as provided in the preceding sections of this Article.

§ 1484. If it is made to appear to the Probate Court
that any appraisement of property, constituting the
homestead, or from which it is claimed, is either too
high or too low, or is unfairly or fraudulently made,
the appraisement, by order of the Court, must be
annulled and another had, as provided in this Article
in case of rejection of a report. Instead of allowing
the homestead claimant, or other heirs or devisees, to
take the property in this section before mentioned, at
its appraised value, as provided in Section 1480, the
Court may, in its discretion, or on petition, direct a
sale thereof to be had at public auction, after notice of
sale given as provided for sales of real estate of a
decedent in the course of administration, for the payment of debts or legacies. If more than five thousand
dollars is not bid, no sale shall take place, but on
report of the facts the property must be set apart as a
homestead.

§ 1485. The costs of all proceedings in the Probate
Court, provided for in this Chapter, must be paid by
the estate, as expenses of administration. Persons
succeeding by purchase or otherwise to the interests,

rights, and title of successors to homesteads, or tothe
right to have homesteads set apart to them, as in this Chapter provided, have all the rights and benefits
conferred by law on the persons whose interests and
rights they acquire.

§ 1486. A certified copy of every final order made
in pursuance of this Article, by which a report is coniirmed, property assigned, or sale connrmed, must be
recorded in the ofiiee of the Recorder of the county
where the homestead property is situated.

§ 1490. Every executor or administrator 
must, immediately after his appointment, cause to be
published in some newspaper of the county, if there
be one, if not, then in such newspaper as may be
designated by the Court, a notice to the creditors of
the decedent, requiring all persons having claims
against him to exhibit them, with the necessary
vouchers, to the executor or administrator, at the
place of his residence or business, to be specified in
the notice. Such notice must be published as often
as the Judge or Court shall direct, but not less than
once a week for four weeks. The Court or Judge 1
may also direct additional notice by publication or
posting. In case such executor or administrator resigns, or is removed, before the time expressed in the
notice, his successor must give notice only for the
unexpired time allowed for such presentation.

§ 1491. The time expressed in the notice
must be ten months after its first publication, when the
estate exceeds in value the sum of ten thousand dollars, and four months when it does not.

§ 1492. After the notice is given, ‘as required by the preceding section, a copy thereof, with
the affidavit of due publication, or of publication and
posting, must be filed, and upon such affidavit or other
testimony to the satisfaction of the Court, an order or
decree showing that due notice to creditors has been
given, and directing that such order or decree be
entered in the minutes and recorded, must be made
by the Court.

§ 1493. If a claim is not presented within
the time limited in the notice, it is barred forever,
except as follows: If it is not then due, or if it is

contingent, it may be presented within one month after
it becomes due or absolute; when it is made to appear
by the affidavit of the claimant, to the satisfaction of
the executor or administrator and the Probate Judge,
that the claimant had no notice, as provided in this Chapter, by reason of being out of the State, it may
be presented any time before a decree of distribution
is entered; a claim for a deficiency remaining unpaid
alter a sale of property of the estate mortgaged or
pledged must be presented within one month after such
deiiciency is ascertained.

§ 1494. Every claim presented to the administrator must be supported by the affidavit of the
claimant, or some one in his behalf, that the amount is
justly due, that no payments have been made thereon
which are not credited, and that there are no offsets
to the same, to the knowledge of the claimant or
afiiant. When the affidavit is made by a person other
than the claimant, he must set forth in the affidavit
the reasons why it is not made by the claimant. The
oath may be taken before any officer authorized to
administer oaths. The executor or administrator may
also require satisfactory vouchers or proofs to be produced in support of the claim. If the estate is insolvent,,;1o greater rate of interest shall be allowed upon
any claimfafter the first publication of notice to creditors, than is allowed on judgments obtained in the
District Court.

Probate Judge as shall have acted upon it, has the
same right to sue in a proper Court for its recovery as
other persons have when their claims against an estate

are rejected.


§ 1496. When a claim, accompanied by

the affidavit required in this Chapter, is presented to i

the executor or administrator, he must indorse thereon
his allowance or rejection, with the day and date
thereof. If he allows the claim, it must be presented
to the Probate Judge for his approval, who must, in
the same manner, indorse upon it his allowance or
rejection. If the executor or administrator, or the
Judge, refuse or neglect to indorse such allowance or
rejection for ten days after the claim has been presented to him, such refusal or neglect is equivalent to
a rejection; and if the presentation he made by a
Notary, the certificate of such Notary, under seal, is
primary evidence of such presentation and rejection.
If the claim be presented to the executor or administrator, before the expiration of the time limited for
the presentation of claims, the same is presented in
time, though acted upon by the executor or administrator, and by the Judge, after the expiration of such
time.

§ 1497. Every claim allowed by the executor or administrator, and approved by the Probate
Judge, or a copy thereof, as hereinafter provided, must,
Within thirty days thereafter, be filed in the Probate
Court, and be ranked among the acknowledged debts
of the estate, to be paid in due course of administration. If the claim is founded on a bond, bill, note, or
any other instrument, a copy of such instrument must
accompany the claim, and the original instrument must
be exhibited if demanded, unless it is lost or destroyed,
in which case the claimant must accompany his claim
by his affidavit, containing a copy or particular description of such instrument, and stating its loss or’destruction. If the claim or any part thereof is secured by a
mortgage or other lien which has been recorded in the
office of the Recorder of the county in which the land
affected by it lies, it is sufficient to describe the mortgage or lien, and refer to the date, volume, and page
of its record. If, in any case, the claimant has left any
original voucher in the hands of the executor or administrator, or suffered the same to be filed in Court, he
may withdraw the same when a copy thereof has been
already, or is then, attached to his claim. A brief
description of every claim filed must be entered by
the Clerk in the register, showing the name of the
claimant, the amount and character of the claim, rate
of interest, and date of allowance.

§ 1498. When a claim is rejected, either
by the executor or administrator, or the Probate Judge,
the holder must bring suit in the proper Court against
the executor or administrator, within three months
after the date of its rejection, if it be then due, or
within two months after it becomes due, otherwise the
claim is forever barred.


§ 1499. No claim must be allowed by the
executor or administrator, or by the Probate Judge,
which is barred by the Statute of Limitations. When
a claim is presented to the Probate Judge for his allowance, he may, in his discretion, examine the claimant
and others, on oath, and hear any other legal evidence
touching the validity of the claim.

§ 1500. No holder of any claim against
an estate shall maintain anyaction thereon, unless the
claim is first presented to the executor or administrator, except in the following case: an action may be
brought by any holder of a mortgage or lien to enforce the same against the property of the estate
subject thereto, where all recourse against any other

property of the estate is expressly waived in the complaint.


§ 1501. The time during which there
shall be a vacancy in the administration must not be
included in any limitations herein prescribed.

§ 1502. If an action is pending against
the decedent at the time of his death, the plaintifff
must in like manner present his claim to the executor
or administrator, for allowance or rejection, authenticated as required in other cases; and no recovery shall

be had in the action unless proof be made of the presentations required.

§ 1503. VVhenever any claim is presented
to an executor or administrator, or to the Probate
Judge, and he is willing to allow the same in part, he
must state in his indorsement the amount he is willing
to allow. If the creditor refuse to accept the amount
allowed in satisfaction of his claim, he shall recover
no costs in any action therefore, brought against the
executor or administrator, unless he recovers a greater
amount than that. offered to be allowed.


§ 1504. A judgment renderedagainst an
executor or administrator, upon any claim for money
against the estate of his testator or intestate, only
establishes the claim in the same manner as if it had
been allowed by the executor or administrator and the executor or administrator pay in due course of administration the amount ascertained to be due. A certified transcript of the judgment must be filed in the Probate Court. No execution must issue upon such judgment, nor shall it create any lien upon the property of the estate or give to the judgment creditor any priority of payment.

§ 1505. When any judgment has been rendered for or against the testator or intestate in his lifetime, no execution shall issue thereon after his death, except as provided in Section 686; a judgment against the decedent for the recovery of money, must be presented to the executor or administrator, like any other claim. IF the execution is actually levied upon any property of the decedent before his death, the same may be sold for the satisfaction thereof, and the officer making the sale must accoutn to the executor or administrator for any surplus in his hands.

§ 1506. A judgment rendered against a decedent, dying after verdict or decision on an issue of fact, but before judgment is rendered thereon, is not a lien on teh real property of the decedent, but is payable in due course of administration.

§ 1507. If the executor or administrator
doubts the correctness of any claim presented to him,
he may enter into an agreement, in writing, with the
claimant, to refer the matter in controversy to some’
disinterested person, to be approved by the Probate
Judge. Upon filing the agreement and approval of
the Probate Judge in the office of the Clerk of the
District Court for the county in which the letters testamentary or of administration were granted, the Clerk
must, either in vacation or in term, enter a minute
of the order referring the matter in controversy to

.the person so selected; or, if the parties consent, a

reference may be had in the Probate Court; and the
report of the referee, if confirmed, establishes or rejects the claim, the same as if it had been allowed or
rejected by the executor or administrator and the
Probate Judge.

§ 1508. The referee must bear and determine the matter, and make his report thereon to the
Court in which his appointment is entered. The same
proceedings shall be had in all respects, and the referee
shall have the same powers, be emhb¢ 
compensation and subject to the same control, as in
other cases of reference. The Court may remove the
referee, appoint another in his place, set aside or confirm his report, and adjudge costs, as in actions against
executors or administrators, and the judgment of the
Court thereon shall be as valid and effectual, in all
respects, as if the same had been rendered in a suit
commenced by ordinary process.

§ 1509. When a judgment is recovered,
with costs, against any executor or administrator, he

shall be individually liable for such costs, but they
must be allowed him in his administration accounts,
unless it appears that the suit or proceeding in which
the costs were taxed was prosecuted or defended without just cause.

§ 1510. If the executor or administrator is
a creditor of the decedent, his claim, duly authenticated by aiiidavits, must be presented for allowance or
rejection to the Probate Judge, and its allowance by
the Judge is suiiicient evidence of its correctness, and
it must be paid as other claims, in due course of administration. If, however, the Probate Judge rejects the
claim, action thereon may be had against the estate
by the claimant, and summons must be served upon
the Probate Judge, who may appoint an attorney at
the expense of the estate, to defend the action. If
the claimant recovers no judgment he must pay all
costs, including defendant’s attorney’s fees.

§ 1511. If an executor or administrator

' neglects for two months after his appointment to give

notice to creditors, as prescribed by this Chapter, the
Court must revoke his letters, and appoint some other
person in his stead, equally or the next in order entitled to the appointment.

§ 1512. At the same term at which he is
required to return his inventory, the executor or administrator must also return a statement of all claims
against the estate which have been presented to him,
if so required by the Court; and from term to term
thereafter he must present a statement of claims sub
sequently presented to him. In all such statements he
must designate the names of the creditors, the nature
of each claim, when it became due or will become due,
and whether it was allowed or rejected by him.


§ 1516. The personal estate of the decedent which comes into the hands of the executor or
administrator is first chargeable with the payment of
the debts and expenses; if the goods, chattels, rights,
and credits in the hands of the executoror administrator are not sufficient to pay the debts of the decedent, the expenses of administrati/on, and the allowance
to the family, the whole of the real estate may be sold
for that purpose by the executor or administrator, in
the manner prescribed in Chapter VII of this Title.

§ 1517. No sale of any property of an
estate of a decedent is valid unless made under order
of the Probate Court, except as otherwise provided in
this Chapter. All sales must be reported under oath,
and confirmed by the Probate Court, before the title
to the property sold passes.

§ 1518. All petitions for orders of sale
must be in writing, setting forth the facts showing the
sale to be necessary, and upon the hearing any person

interested in the estate may file his written objections,
which must be heard and determined.

§ 1519. When it can be made to appear to the Court
that the estate is insolvent, or that it will require a
sale of all the property of the estate, of every character, to pay the family allowance, expenses of administration, and debts, there must be but one petition filed,
but one order of sale made, and but one sale had.
The Probate Court, when a petition for the sale of any
property for any of the purposes herein named is presented, must inquire fully into the probable amount
required to make all such payments, and if there is no
more estate than sufiicient to pay the same, must
require but one proceeding for the sale of the entire
estate. In such case, the petition must set forth all
the facts required by Section 1537.


§ 1522. At any time after receiving letters, the executor, administrator, or special administrator may apply to the Court or Judge and obtain an
order to sell perishable and other personal property
likely to depreciate in value, or which will incur loss
or expense by being kept, and so much other personal
property as may be necessary to pay the allowance
made to the family of the decedent. The order for
the sale may be made Without notice; but the executor, administrator, or special administrator is responsible for the property, unless, after making a sworn

return, and on a proper showing, the Court shall
approve the sale.

§ 1523. If claims against the estate have
been allowed, and a sale of property 18 necessary for
their payment or the expenses of administration, the
executor or administrator may apply for an order to
sell so much of the personal property as may be necessary therefore. Upon filing his petition, notice of at
least five days must be given of the hearing of the
application, either by posting notices or by advertising. _He may also make a similar application, either
in vacation or term, from time to time, so long as any
personal property remains in his hands and sale thereof
is necessary. If it is made to appear for the best
interest of the estate, he may, at any time after filing
the inventory, in like manner and after giving like
notice, apply for and obtain an order to sell the whole
of the personal property belonging to the estate,
whether necessary to pay debts or not.

§ 1524. Partnership interests or interests belonging
to‘ any estate by virtue of any partnership formerly
existing, interest in personal property pledged, and
choses in action, may be sold in the same manner as
other personal property, when it appears to be for the
best interest of the estate. Before confirming the sale
of any partnership interest, whether made to the surviving partner or to any other person, the Court or

Judge must ‘carefully inquire into the condition of the.

partnership affairs, and must examine the surviving
partner, if in the county and able to be present in

Court.

§ 1525. If it appears that a sale is necessary for the payment of debts or the family allowance,
or for the best interest of the estate and the persons

interested in the property to be sold, whether it is or
is not necessary to pay the debts or family allowance,
the Court or Judge must order it to be made. In
making orders and sales for the payment of debts or
family allowance, the Court or Judge must so direct;
and such articles as are not necessary for the support
and subsistence of the family of the decedent, or are
not specially bequeathed, must be first sold. Articles
bequeathed must not be sold to pay ‘debts or family
allowance, until all other personal estate has been
applied to the payment thereof.

§ 1526. The sale of personal property must be made at public auction, and after public
notice, given for at least ten days, by notices posted
in three public places in the county, or by publication
in a newspaper, or both, containing the time and place
of sale, and a brief description of the property to be

sold; unless, for good reason shown, the Probate Court _

or Judge orders a private sale, or a shorter notice.
Public sales of such property must be made at the
Court House door, at the residence of the decedent,
or at some other public place; but no sale shall be
made of any property which is not present at the time
of selling it, unless the Court otherwise order.

§ 1529. When it appears from the inventory of the
estate of any decedent that his estate consists in whole
or in part of mines or interests in mines, such mines

or interests may be sold under the order of the Probate Court having jurisdiction of the estate, as hereinafter provided.

§ 1530. The executor, administrator, or
any heir at law, or creditor of the estate, any partner
or member of any mining company in which interests
or shares are held or owned by the estate, may file in
the Probate Court a petition in writing, setting forth
the general facts of the estate being then in due course
of administration, and particularly describing the mine,
interest, or shares which it is desired to sell, and particularly the condition and situation of the mines or
mining interests, or of the mining company in which
such interests or shares are held, and the grounds upon
which the sale is asked to be made. i

§ 1531. Upon the presentation of such peti_ tion the Probate Judge must make an order directing

all persons interested to appear before him at a time
and place specified, not less than four nor more than
ten weeks from the time of making such order, to
show cause why an order should not be granted to the
executor or administrator to sell such mines, mining
interests, shares, or stocks, as are setuforth in the petition and belonging to the estate. A copy of the order
to show cause must be personally served on all persons
interested in the estate, at least ten days before the
time appointed for hearing the petition, or published
at least four successive weeks in such newspaper as the
Court shall specify. If all persons interested in the
estate signify in writing their assent to such sale, the
notice may be dispensed with.

§ 1532. If, upon hearing the petition, it
appears to the satisfaction of the Probate Judge that
it is to the interest of the estate that such mining
property or interests of the estate should be sold, or if

it appears to his satisfaction that an immediate sale is
necessary in order to secure the just rights or interests
of the mining partners, or tenants in common, in which
such shares or property are held, such Probate Judge
must make an order authorizing the executor or administrator to sell such mining interests, mines, or shares,
as hereinafter provided.

§ 1533. After the order of sale is made, all

further proceedings for the sale of such mining property, and for the notice, report, and confirmation thereof,

must be in conformity with the provisions of Article
IV of this Chapter.


§ 1536. When the personal estate in the
hands of the executor or administrator is exhausted or
insufiicient to pay the allowance of the family, the
debts outstanding against the decedent, and the debts,
expenses, and charges of administration, the executor
or administrator may sell the real estate for that purpose, upon the order of the Probate Court.

§ 1537. To obtain such order he must
present a verified petition to the Probate Court, or to
the Judge at chambers, setting forth the amount of
personal estate that has come to his hands, and how
much thereof, if any, remains undisposed of; the debts
outstanding against the decedent, as far as can be
ascertained or estimated; the amount due upon the
family allowance, or that will be due after the same

has been in force for one year; the debts, expenses,
and charges of administration already accrued, and an
estimate of What will or may accrue during the administration; a description of all the real estate of
Which the decedent died seized, or in which he had
any interest, or in which the estate has acquired any
interest, and the condition and value of the respective
portions and lots thereof, and whether the same be
community or separate property; the names and ages
of the devisees, if any, and of the heirs of the decedent. If all the matters above enumerated cannot
be ascertained, it must be so stated in the petition.

§ 1538. If it appears to the Court or Judge,
from such petition, that it is necessary to sell the whole
or some portion of the real estate for the purposes and
reasons mentioned in the preceding section, or any of
them, such petition must be filed and an order thereupon made, directing all persons interested in the
estate to appear before the Court, at a time and place
speciiied, not less than four nor more than ten Weeks
from the time of making such order, to show cause
why an order should not be granted to the executor or
administrator to sell so much of the real estate of the

decedent as is necessary.

§ 1539. A copy of the order to show
cause must be personally served on all persons interested in the estate, and on any general guardian of any
minor, devisee, or heir of the decedent resident in the
county, at least ten days before the time appointed for
hearing the petition, or must be published at least
four successive weeks in such newspaper as the Court
or Judge shall direct. The notice is served if the
publication is completed ten days before the day set for
hearing. If all persons_interested in the estate join in
the petition for the sale, or signify in Writing their
assent thereto, the notice may be dispensed With.

§ 1540. The Probate Court, at the time 1
and place appointed in such order, or at such other A

time to which the hearing may be postponed, upon
satisfactory proof of personal service or publication of
a copy of the order, by affidavit or otherwise, if the
consent, in Writing, to such sale of all parties interested is not filed, must proceed to hear the petition,’
and hear and examine the allegations and proofs of
the petitioners, and of all persons interested in the

estate who may oppose the application. All claims ,

against the decedent not before presented, if the

period of presentation has not elapsed, ‘may be presented and passed upon at the hearing.

§ 1541. The executor, administrator, and
witnesses may be examined on oath by either party,
and process to compel them to attend and testify may
be issued by the Probate Judge, in the same manner
and with like effect as in other cases. ‘

§ 1542. If it appears necessary to sell a
part of the real estate, and that by a sale thereof the
residue of the estate, real or personal, or some specific
part thereof‘, would be greatly injured or diminished
in value, or subjected to expense, or rendered unprofitable, or that after any such sale the residue Would
be so small in quantity or value, or would be of such
a character with reference to its future disposition
among the heirs or devisees, as clearly to render it
for the best interests of all concerned that the same
should be sold, the Court may authorize the sale of
the whole estate, or of any part thereof, necessary and
for the best interest of all concerned. '

§ 1543. If the Court is satisfied, after afull
bearing’ upon the petition and an examination of the
proofs and allegations of the parties interested, that a
sale of the whole or some portion of the real estate is

necessary, for any of the causes mentioned in this Article, or if such sale be assented to by all the persons
interested, an order must be made to sell the whole,or
so much and such parts of the real estate described
in the petition, as the Court shall judge necessary or
beneficial.

§ 1544. The order of sale must describe
the lands to be sold and the terms of sale, which may
be for cash, or on a credit not exceeding one year,
payable in gross or in installments, and in such kind of
money, with interest, as the Court may direct. The
land may be sold in one parcel or in subdivisions, as
the executor or administrator shall judge most beneficial to the estate, unless the Court otherwise specially
directs. If it appears that any part of such real estate
has been devised and not charged in such devise with
the payment of debts or legacies, the Court must order
the remainder to be sold before that so devised.
Every such sale must be ordered to be made at public
auction, unless, in the opinion of the Court, it would
benefit the estate to sell the Whole or some part of
such real estate at private sale; the Court may, if the
same is asked for in the petition, order or direct such
real estate or any part thereof to be sold at either public or private sale, as the executor or administrator
shall judge to be most beneficial for theestate. It
the executor or administrator neglects or refuses to
make a sale under the order and as directed therein,
he may be compelled to sell, by order of the Court,
made on motion, after due notice, by any party interested.

§ 1545. If the executor or administrator
neglects to apply for an order of sale when it is necessary, any person may make application therefore, in the
same manner as the executor or administrator, and
notice thereof must be given to the executor or administrator, before the hearing. The petition of such
applicant must contain as many of the matters set
forth in Section 1537 as he can ascertain, and the
decree of sale mustfix the period of time within which
the executor or administrator must make the sale.

§ 1546. Upon making the order mentioned
in the last section, a certified copy of the order of sale
must be delivered by the Court or the Clerk to the
executor or administrator, who is thereupon authorized and required to sell the real estate as directed.

§ 1547. When a sale is ordered, and is to
be made at public auction, notice of the time and
place of sale must be posted in three of the most pubhe places in the county in which the land is situated,
and published in a newspaper, if there be one printed
in the same county, but if none, then in such paper
as the Court may direct, for three weeks successively
next before the sale. The lands and tenements to be
sold must be described with common certainty in the
notice.

§ 1548. Sales at public auction must be
made in the county where the land is situated; but
when the land is situated in two’ or more counties, it
may be sold in either. The sale must be made between
the hours of nine o’clock in the morning and the setting of the sun on the same day, and must be made on
the day named in the notice of sale, unless the same
is postponed.

§ 1549. When a sale of real estate is ordered
to be made at private sale, notice of the same must be
posted up in three of the most public places in the
county in which the land is situated, and published in
a newspaper, if there be one printed in the same
county—if none, then in such paper as the Court may

direct—-for tW'0 Weeks successively next before the day
on or after which the sale is to be made, in which the
lands and tenements to be sold must be described with
common certainty. ’ The notice must state a day on or
after which the sale Will be made, and a place where
offers or bids will be received. The day last referred
to must be at least fifteen days from the first publication _of notice, and the sale must not be made before
that day, but must be made within six months thereafter. The bids or offers must be in Writing, and may‘

be left at the place designated in the notice, or delivered to the executor or administrator personally, or may
be filed in the oiiiee of the Clerk of the Probate Court,
to which the return of sale must be made, at any time
after the first publication of the notice, and before the

‘making of the sale. If it is shown that it Will be for

the best interest of the estate, the Court or Judge
may, by an order, shorten the time of notice, which
shall not, however, be less than one Week, and may
provide that the sale may be made on or after a day
less than fifteen, but not less than eight, days from the
first publication of the notice, in which case the notice
of sale and the sale may be made to correspond with
such order.

§ 1550. No sale of real estate at private
sale shall be confirmed bythe Court, unless the sum
offered is at least ninety per cent of the appraised value
thereof, nor unless such real estate has been appraised
within one year of the time of such sale. If it has not
been so appraised, or if the Court is satisfied that the
appraisement is too high or too low, appraisers must be
appointed, and they must make an appraisement thereof
in the same manner as in case of an original appraisement of an estate. This may be done at any time
before the sale or the confirmation thereof.

§ 1551. The executor or administrator
must, when the sale is made upon a credit, take the
notes of the purchaser for the purchase money, with a
mortgage on the property to secure their payment.

§ 1552. The executor or administrator,
after making any sale of real estate, must make a
return of his proceedings to the Probate Court, which
must be filed in the oiiice of the Clerk, at any time
subsequent to the sale, either in term or vacation. If
the sale is made at public auction, and the return is
made and filed on or before the first day of the ‘next
term thereafter, no notice is required of such return
or of the hearing thereof‘, but the hearing may be
had upon the first day of the term, or any subsequent
day to which the same may be postponed. If the
sale be not made at public auction, or if made at public auction a hearing upon the return of proceedings
be asked for in the return, or is brought on for a hearing upon a day before the first day of the next term
thereafter, or upon any other day than the first day of
the next term after such sale, the Court or Judge
must fix the day for the hearing, of which notice of at
least ten days must be given by the Clerk, by notices
posted in three public places in the county, or by publication in a newspaper, or both, as the Court or Judge
shall direct, and must briefly indicate the land sold,
the sum for which it was sold, and must refer to the
return for further particulars. Upon the hearing, the
Court must examine the return and witnesses in relation to the same, and if the proceedings were unfair,
or the sum bid disproportionate to the value, and if it
appear that a sum exceeding such bid at least ten per
cent, exclusive of the expenses of a, new sale, may be
obtained, the Court may vacate the sale and direct
another to be had, of which notice must be given, and
the sale in all respects conducted as if no previous sale
had taken place ;.if an offer ten per cent more in

amount than that named in the return be made to the
Court in Writing, by a responsible person, it is in the
discretion of the Court to accept such offer and confirm the sale to such person or to order a new sale.

§ 1553. When return of the sale is made
and filed any person interested in the estate may file
written objections to the confirmation thereof; and
may be heard thereon, when the return is heard by
the Court or Judge, and may produce Witnesses in
support of his objections.

§ 1554. If it appears to the Court that the

A sale was legally made and fairly conducted, and that

the sum bid was not disproportionate to the value ot
the property sold, and that a greater sum, as above
specified, cannot be obtained, or if the increased bid
mentioned in Section 1552 be made and accepted by
the Court, the Court must make an order confirming
the sale, and directing conveyances to be executed.
The sale, from that time, is confirmed and valid, and
a certified copy of the order confirming it and directing conveyances to be executed must be recorded in
the office of the Recorder of the county within which
the land sold is situated. If, after the confirmation,
the purchaser neglects or refuses to comply with
the terms of sale, the Court may, on motion of the
executor or administrator, and after notice to the purchaser, order a resale to be made of the property. If
the amount realized on such resale does not cover the
bid and the expenses of the previous sale, such purchaser is liable for the deficiency to the estate.

§ 1555. Conveyances must thereupon be
executed to the purchaser by the executor or administrator, and they must refer to the orders of the Probate Court authorizing and confirming the sale of the
property of the estate, and directing conveyances

thereof to be executed, and to the record of the order
of confirmation in the office of the County Recorder,
either by the date of such recording, or by the date,
volume, and page of the record, and such reference
shall have the same effect as if the orders were, at
large, inserted in the conveyance. Conveyances so
made convey all the right, title, interest, and estate of
the decedent, in the premises, at the time of his death;
if, prior to the sale, by operation of law or otherwise,
the estate has acquired any right, title, or interest in
the premises, other than, or in addition to, that of the
decedent at the time of his death, such right, title, or
interest also passes by such conveyances.

§ 1556. Before any order is entered confirming the sale, it must be proved to the satisfaction
of the Court that notice was given of the sale as prescribed, and the order of confirmation must show that
such proof was made.

§ 1557. If at the time appointed for the
sale, the executor or administrator deems it for the
interest of all persons concerned therein that the same
be postponed, he may postpone it from time to time,
not exceeding in all three months.

§ 1558. In case of a postponement, notice
thereof must be given, by a public declaration, at the
time and place first appointed for the sale, and if the
postponement be for more than one day, further notice
must be given, by posting notices in three or more
public places in the county where the land is situated,
or publishing the same, or both, as the time and circumstances will admit.

§ 1559. When a testator has given any
legacy by will that is effectual to pass or charge the title to real estate, and his goods, chattels, rights, and
credits are insufficient to pay the legacy, together with

his debts and the charges of administration, the executor or administrator with the will annexed may obtain
an order therefore, and sell his real estate for that purpose, in the same manner and upon the same terms and
conditions as are prescribed in this Chapter in case of
a sale for the payment of debts.

§ 1560. If the testator makes provision by
his will, or designates the estate to be appropriated for
the payment of his debts, the expenses of administra»
tion, or family expenses, they must be paid according
to such provision or designation, out of the estate thus
appropriated, so far as the same is suilicient.

§ 1561. When such provision has been
made, or any property directed by the will to be sold,
the executor or administrator With the will annexed,
may sell, Without the order of the Probate Court, but
he must give notice of the sale, return accounts thereof
to the Court, and make the sale in all respects as under
order of the Court, unless there are special directions in
the will, in which case he must be governed thereby.

§ 1562. If the provision made by the Will,
or the estate appropriated therefore, is insufficient to
pay the debts, expenses of administration, and family
expenses, that portion of the estate not devised or disposed of by the will, if any, must be appropriated and
disposed of for that purpose, according to the provisions of this Chapter.

§ 1563. The estate, real and personal, given
by will to legatees or devisees, is liable for the debts,
expenses of administration, and family expenses, in
proportion to the value or amount of the several devises or legacies, but’ specific devises or legacies are
exempt from such liability if it appeals to the Court
necessary to ea1'1'y into eilect the intention of the test:1t.or, and there is other snfiicient estate.

§ 1564. When an estate given by will has j
been sold for the payment of debts or expenses, all the i
devisees and legatees must contribute‘ according to
their respective interests to the devisee or legatee
whose devise or legacy has been taken therefore, and
the Probate Court, when distribution is made, must,
by decree for that purpose, settle the amount of the
several liabilities, and decree the amount each person
shall contribute, and reserve the same from their distributive shares respectively, for the purpose of paying
such contribution.

§ 1565. If a decedent, at the time of his
death, was possessed of a contract for the purchase of

lands, his interest in such land and under such con- ‘

tracts may be sold on the application of his executor
or administrator, in the same manner as if he had died
seized of such land, and the same proceedings may be
had for that purpose as are prescribed in this Chapter
for the sale of lands of which he died seized, except
as hereinafter provided.

§ 1566. The sale must be made subject to
all payments that may thereafter become due on such
contracts, and if there are any such, the sale must not
be confirmed by the Probate Judge until the purchasers execute a bond to the executor or administrator, for the benefit and indemnity of himself and of
the persons entitled to the interest of the decedent in
the lands so contracted for, in double the whole amount
of payments thereafter to become due on such contract, With such sureties as the Probate Judge shall

approve.

§ 1567. The bond must be conditioned
that the purchaser will make all payments for such
land that become due after the date of the sale, and

will fully indemnify the executor or administrator and

the persons so entitled against all demands, costs,
charges, and expenses, by reason of any covenant or

agreement contained in such contract.

§ 1568. Upon the confirmation of the sale,
the executor or administrator must execute to the purchaser an assignment of the contract, which vests in
the purchaser, his heirs and assigns, all the right, title,
and interest of the estate, or of the persons entitled to
the interest of the decedent, in the lands sold at the
time of the sale, and the purchaser has the same rights
and remedies against the vendor of such land as the
decedent would have bad if he were living.

§ 1569. When any sale is made by an
executor or administrator, pursuant to the provisions
of this Chapter, of lands subject to any mortgage or
other lien, which is a valid claim against the estate of
the decedent, and has been presented and allowed,
the purchase money must be applied, after paying the
necessary expenses of the sale, first to the payment
and satisfaction of the mortgage or lien, and the
residue, if any, in due course of administration. The
application of the purchase money to the satisfaction
of the mortgage or lien must be made Without delay;
and the land is subject to such mortgage or lien until
the purchase money has been actually so applied. No
claim against any estate which has been presented
and allowed is affected by the Statute of Limitations,
pending the proceedings for the settlement of the
estate. The purchase money, or so much thereof as
may be sufficient to pay such mortgage or lien, with
interest, and any lawful costs and charges thereon, may
be paid into the Probate Court, to be received by the
Clerk thereof‘, whereupon the mortgage or lien upon
the land must cease, and the purchase money must be
paid over by the Clerk of the Court without delay, in
payment of the expenses of the sale, and in satisiaction

of the debt, to secure which the mortgage or other
lien was taken, and the surplus, if any, at once returned to the executor or administrator, unless for
good cause shown, after notice to the executor or
administrator, the Court otherwise directs.

§ 1570. At any sale, under order of the
Probate Court, of lands upon which there is a mortgage or lien, the holder thereof may become the purchaser, and his receipt for the amount due him from
the proceeds of the sale is a payment pro tanto. If
the amount for which he purchased the property is
insumcient to defray the expenses and discharge his
mortgage or lien, he must pay to the Court or the Clerk
thereof an amount sufiicient to pay such expenses.

§ 1571. If there is any neglect or misconduct in the proceedings of the executor in relation to
any sale, by which any person interested in the estate
suffers damage, the party aggrieved may recover the
same in an action upon the bond of the executor or
administrator, or otherwise.

§ 1572. Any executor or administrator who
fraudulently sells any real estate of a decedent contrary to or otherwise than under the provisions of this Chapter, is liable in double the value of the land sold,
as liquidated damages, to be recovered in an action by
the person having an estate of inheritance therein. .

§ 1573. _N o action for the recovery of any
estate, sold by an executor or administrator under the
provisions of this Chapter, can be maintained by any
heir or other person claiming under the decedent,
unless it be commenced within three years next after
the sale. An action to set aside the sale may be instituted and maintained at any time within three years
from the discovery of the fraud, or other grounds upon
which the action is based.

§ 1574. The preceding section shall not
apply to minors or others under any legal disability,to
sue at the time when the right of action first accrues;
but all such persons may commence an action at any

time within three years after the removal of the disability.

§ 1575. When a sale has been made by an
executor or administrator, of any property of the estate,
real or personal, he must return to the Probate Court,
at its next term thereader, an account of sales, verified
by his athdavit. If he neglects to make such return,
he may be punished by attachment, or his letters may
be revoked, one day's notice having been first given
him to appear and show cause Why such attachment

should not issue, or such revocation should not be
made.

§ 1576. No executor or administrator must,
directly or indirectly, purchase any property of the
estate he represents, nor must he be interested in any
sale.

§ 1581. The executor or administrator
must take into his possession all the estate of the
decedent, real and personal, and collect all debts due
to the decedent or to the estate. For the purpose of
bringing suits to quiet title, or for partition of such
estate, the possession of the executors or administrators
is the possession of the heirs or devisees; such possession by the heirs or devisees is subject, however, to
the possession of the executor or administrator, for the
purposes of administration, as provided in this Title.

§ 1582. Actions for the recovery of any
property, real or personal, or for the possession thereof,
and all actions founded upon contracts, may be maintained by and against executors and administrators, in

all cases in which the same might have been maintained by or against their respective testators or intestates.

§ 1583. Executors and administrators may
maintain actions against any person who has wasted,
destroyed, taken, or carried away, or converted to his
own use, the goods of their testator or intestate, in his
lifetime. They may also maintain actions for trespass
committed on the real estate of the decedent in his
lifetime.

§ 1584. Any person or his personal representatives may maintain an action against the executor
or administrator of any testator or intestate who in
his lifetime has wasted, destroyed, taken, or carried
away, or converted to his own use, the goods or chattels of any such person, or committed any trespass on
the real estate of such person.

§ 1585. When a partnership exists between
the decedent, at the time of his death, and any other
person, the surviving partner has the right to continue
in possession of the partnership, and to settle its
business, but the interest of the decedent in the part»
nership must be included in the inventory, and be
appraised as other property. The surviving partner
must settle the affairs of the partnership without delay,
and account with the executor or administrator, and
pay over such balances as may from time to time be
payable to him, in iight of the decedent. Upon the
application of the executor or administrator, the Probate Judge may, whenever it appears necessary, order
the surviving partner to render an account, and in case
of ‘neglect or refusal may, after notice, compel it by
attachment; and the executor or administrator may
maintain against him any action which the decedent
could have maintained.

§ 1586. An administrator may, in his own

a name, for the use and benefit of all parties interested

in the estate, maintain actions on the bond of an
executor, or of any former administrator of the same
estate.

§ 1587. In actions by or against executols,
it is not necessary to join those as parties to whom
letters were issued, but who have not qualified.

§ 1588. Whenever a debtor of a decedent
is unable to pay all his debts, the executor or administrator, With the approbation of the Probate Court or
Judge, may compound with him, and give him a discharge upon receiving a fair and just dividend of his
effects. A compromise may also be authorized, when

it appears to be just, and for the best interest of the
estate.

§ 1589. When there is a deficiency of
assets in the hands of an executor or administrator,
and when the decedent, in his lifetime, has conveyed

any real estate, or any rights or interests therein, with
intent to defraud his creditors, or to avoid any right,
debt, or duty of any person, or has so conveyed such
estate that by law the deeds or conveyances are void
as against creditors, the executor or administrator
must commence and prosecute to final judgment any
proper action for the recovery of the same; and may
recover for the benefit of the creditor all such real
estate so fraudulently conveyed; and may also, for the
beneht of the creditors, sue and recover all goods,
chattels, rights, or credits which have been so conveyed by the decedent in his lifetime, Whatever may
have been the manner of such fraudulent conveyance.

§ 1590. No executor or administrator is‘

bound to sue for such estate as mentioned in the preceding section, for the benefit of the creditors, unless
on application of creditors, who must pay such part
of the costs and expenses of the suit, or give such
security to the executor or administrator therefore, as
the Probate Judge shall direct.

§ 1591. All real estate so recovered must
be sold for the payment of debts, in the same manner
as if the decedent had died seized thereof, upon
obtaining an order therefore from the Probate Court;
and the proceeds of all goods, chattels, rights, and
credits so recovered must be appropriated in payment
of the debts of the decedent, in the same manner

as other property in the hands of .the executor or
administrator.

§ 1597. When a person who is bound by
-contract in Writing to convey any real estate, dies before making the conveyance, and in all cases where
such decedent, if living, might be compelled to make
such conveyance, the Probate Court may make a decree
authorizing and directing his executor or administrator to convey such real estate to the person entitled

thereto.

§ 1598. On the presentation of a verified
petition by any person claiming to be entitled to such
conveyance from an executor or‘ administrator, setting
forth the facts upon which the claim is predicated, the
Probate Court must appoint a time and place for hearing the petition, at a regular term of the Court, and
must order notice thereof to be published at least four
successive weeks before such hearing, in such newspaper in this State as he may designate.

§ 1599. At the time and place appointed
for the hearing, or at such other time to which the
same may be postponed, upon satisfactory proof, by

affidavit or otherwise, of the,due publication of the
notice, the Court must proceed to a hearing, and all
persons interested in the estate may appear and contest
such petition, by filing their objections in writing, and
the Court may examine, on oath, the petitioner and all
who may be produced before him for that purpose.

§ 1600. If, after a full hearing upon the
petition and objections, ‘and examination of the facts
and circumstances of the claim, the Court is satisfied
that the petitioner is entitled to a conveyance of the
real estate described in the petition, a decree authorizing and directing the executor or administrator to
execute a conveyance thereof to the petitioner must

be made, entered on the minutes of the Court, and
recorded. .

§ 601. The executor or administrator must
execute the conveyance according to the directions of
the decree, a certified copy of which must be recorded
with the deed in the office of the Recorder of the
county where the lands lie, and is primary evidence of
the correctness of the proceedings, and of the authority

of the executor or administrator to make the conveyance.

§ 1602. If, upon hearing in the Probate
Court, as hereinbefore provided, the right of the petitioner to have a specific performance of the contract
is found to be ‘doubtful, the Court must dismiss the
petition Without prejudice to the rights of the petitioner, who may, at any time Within six months thereafter, proceed, in the District Court, to enforce a specific performance thereof.

§ 1603. Every conveyance made in pursuance of a decree of the Probate Court, as provided in
this Chapter, shall pass the title to the estate contracted

for as fully as if the contracting party himself was still
living and executed the conveyance.

§ 1604. A copy of the decree for a con’ veyance, made by the Probate Court, and duly certified and recorded in the office of the Recorder of the
county where the lands lie, gives the person entitled
to the conveyance a right to the possession of the lands
contracted for, and to hold the same according to the
terms of the intended conveyance, in like manner as
if they had been conveyed in pursuance of the decree.

§ 1605. The recording of any decree, as

provided in the preceding section, shall not prevent

the Court making the decree from enforcing the same
by other process. ‘

§ 1606. If the person entitled to the conveyance dies before the commencement of proceedings therefore under this Chapter, or before the completion of the conveyance, any person entitled to sueceed to his rights in the contract, or the executor or
administrator of such decedent may, for the benefit of
the person so entitled, commence such proceedings, or
prosecute any already commenced, and the conveyance
must be so made as to vest the estate in the persons

entitled to it,‘or in the executor or administrator, for
their benefit.

§ 1607. The decree provided for in this Chapter may direct the possession of the property
therein described to be surrendered to the person

entitled thereto, upon his producing the deed and a
certified copy of the decree, when, by the terms of
the contract, possession is to be surrendered.

§ 1612. No executor or administrator is
chargeable upon any specialipromise to answer damages or to pay the debts ‘of the testator or intestate
out of his own estate, unless the agreement for that
purpose, or some memorandum or note thereof‘, is in
writing and signed by such executor or administrator,
or by some other person by him thereunto specially
authorized.

§ 1613. Every executor and administrator
is chargeable in his account with the whole of the
estate of the decedent which may come into his possession, at the value of the appraisement contained in
the inventory, except as provided in the following sections, and with all the interest, profit, and income of
the estate.

§ 1614. He shall not make proiit bythe
increase, nor suffer loss by the decrease, or destruction, without his fault, of any part of the estate. He
must account for the excess when he sells any part of
the estate for more than the appraisement, and if any
is sold for less than the appraisement, he is not responsible for the loss, if the sale has been justly made.

§ 1615. No executor or administrator is
accountable for any debts due to the decedent, if it

appears that they remain uncollected without his
fault.

§ 1616. He shall be allowed all necessary

_ expenses in the care, management, and settlement of

the estate, and for his services such fees as provided
in this Chapter; but when the decedent, by his will,
makes some other provision for the compensation of
his executor, that shall be a full compensation for his
services, unless, by a written instrument, filed in the
Probate lourt, he renounces all claim for compensation provided by the will.

§ 1617. No administrator or executor shall
purchase any claim against the estate he represents;
and if he pays any claim for less than its nominal
value he is only entitled to charge in his account the
amount he actually paid. °

§ 1618. When no compensation is provided

’ by the will, or the executor renounces all claim thereto,

he must be allowed commissions upon the amount of
the whole estate accounted for by him, as follows: For
the first thousand dollars, at the rate of seven per cent;
for all above that sum and not exceeding ten thousand
dollars, at the rate of five per cent; for all above that
sum, at the rate of four per cent; and the same commission must be allowed administrators. In all cases, .
such further allowance may be made as the Probate '
Judge may deem just and reasonable, for any extraordinary service. The total amount of such allowance
must not exceed the amount of commissions allowed
by this section.


§ 1622. At the third term of the Court
after his appointment, and thereafter at any time when
required by the Court, either upon its own motion or
upon the application of any person interested in the
estate, the executor or administrator must render, for
the information of the Court, an exhibit under oath,
showing the amount of money received and expended
by him, the amount of all claims presented against
the estate and the names of the claimants, and all
other matters necessary to show the condition of its
affairs.

§ 1623. If the executor or administrator
fails to render an exhibit at the third term of the Court,
the Judge of the Probate Court must cause a citation
to be issued requiring him to appear and render it.

§ 624. Any person interested in the estate
may, at any time before the final settlement of accounts,
present his petition to the Probate Judge, praying that
the executor or administrator be required to appear and
render such exhibit, setting forth; the facts showing

that it is necessary and proper that such an exhibit
should be made.

§ 1625. If the Judge is -satisfied, either
from the oath of the applicant or from any other testimony otfered, that the facts alleged are true, and considers the showing of the applicant sufficient, he must
direct a citation to be issued to the executor or administrator, requiring him to appear at some day to be
named in the citation, which must be during a term of
the Court, and render an exhibit as prayed for.

§ 1626. When an exhibit is rendered by
an executor or administrator, any person interested
may appear and, by objections in Writing, contest any
account or statement therein contained. The Court
may examine the executor or administrator, and if he
has been guilty of neglect, or has wasted, embezzled,
or mismanaged the estate, his letters must be revoked.

§ 1627. If any executor or administrator
neglects or refuses to appear and render an exhibit,
after having been duly cited, an attachment may be
issued against him and such exhibit enforced, or his
letters may be revoked, in the discretion of the Court.

§ 1628. Every executor or administrator
must render a full account and a report of his administration at the expiration of one year iiom the time

of his appointment. If he fails to present his account,
the Court or Judge must compel the rendering of the
account by attachment, and any person interested in
the estate may apply for and obtain an attachment, but

no attachment must issue unless a citation has been’

first issued, served, and returned, requiring the executor or administrator to appear and show cause why an
attachment should not issue. Every account rendered
must exhibit not only the debts which have been paid,
but also a statement of all debts which have been duly
presented and allowed during the period embraced in
the account.

§ 1629. When the authority of an executor or administrator ceases or is revoked for any reason,
he may be cited to account before the Probate Court
at the instance of the person succeeding to the administration of the same estate, in like manner as he might
have been cited by any person interested in the estate
during the time he Was executor or administrator.

§ 1630. If the executor or administrator
resides out of the county, or absconds, or conceals
himself, so that the citation cannot be personally
served, and neglects to render an account Within thirty
days after the time prescribed in this Article, or it he
neglects to render an account Within thirty days after
being committed Where the attachment has been executed, his letters must be revoked. '

§ 1631. In rendering his account, the
executor or administrator must produce and file vouchers for all charges, debts, claims, and expenses which
he has paid, which must remain in the Court; and he
may be examined on oath touching such payments,
and also touching any property and effects of the dececcnt, and the disposition thereof. When any voucher
is required for other purposes, it may be withdrawn

on leaving a certified copy on file; if a voucher is lost,
or for other good reason cannot be produced on the
settlement, the payment may be proved by the oath

of any competent witness.

§ 1632. On the settlement of his account
he may be allowed any item of expenditure, not
exceeding twenty dollars, for which no voucher is produced, if such item be supported by his own uncontradicted oath positive to the fact of payment, specifying
when, where, and to whom it was made; but such
allowances in the Whole must not exceed five hundred
dollars against any one estate.

§ 1633. When any account is rendered for
settlement, the Court or Judge must appoint a day for
the settlement thereof; the Clerk must thereupon give
notice thereof, by causing notices to be posted in at
least three public places in the county, setting forth
the name of the estate, the executor or administrator,
and the day appointed for the settlement of the
account, which must be on some day of a term of the
Court. The Court or Probate Judge may order such
further notice to be given as may be proper.

§ 1634. If the account mentioned in the preceding

' section is for a iinal settlement, and the estate is ready
or for distribution and partition, the notice thereof

required to be published must state these facts; and,
on confirmation of the final account, distribution and
partition of the estate to all entitled thereto must be
immediately had, Without further notice or proceedings. If, from any cause, the hearing of the account

’ or the partition and distribution is postponed, the

order postponing the same to a day certain, is notice
to all persons interested therein.

§ 1635. On the day appointed, or any subsequent day to which the hearing may be postponed

l by the Court, any person interested in the estate may

appear and file his exceptions in writing to the account,
and contest the same.

§ 1636. All matters, including allowed
claims not passed upon on the settlement of any former
account, or on rendering an exhibit, or on making a
decree of sale, may be co_ntested by the heirs, for cause
shown. The hearing and allegations of the respective
parties may be postponed from time to time, when necessary, and the Court may appoint one or more referees
to examine the accounts and make report thereon, subject to conhrmation; and may allow a reasonable compensation to the referees, to be paid out of the estate
of the decedent.

§ 1637. The settlement of the account,
and the allowance thereof by the Court, or upon
appeal, is conclusive against all persons in any way
interested in the estate, saving, however, to all persons laboring under any legal disability, their rights to
proceed against the executor or administrator, either
individually or upon his bond,_within two years after
their respective disabilities cease; and in any action
brought by any such person, the allowance and settlement of the account is primary evidence of its correctness.

§ 1638. The account must not be allowed
by the Court until it is first proved that notice has
been given as required by this Chapter, and the decree
must show that such proof was made to the satisfaction of the Court, and is conclusive evidence of the

fact.


§ 1643. The debts of the estate subject to
the provisions of Sec. 1205 must be paid in the following order:

1. Funeral expenses;

2. The expenses of the last sickness;

3. Debts having preference by the laws of the United

States;
4. Judgments rendered against the decedent in his

lifetime, and mortgages, in the order of their date;

5. All other demands against the estate.

§ 1644. The preference given in the preceding section to a mortgage only extends to the proceeds of the property mortgaged. If the proceeds of
such property is insuiiicient to pay the mortgage, the
part remaining unsatisiied must be classed with other
demands against the estate.

§ 1645. If the estate is insufiicient to pay

’ all the debts of any one class,.each creditor must be

paid a dividend in- proportion to his claim; and no
creditor of any one class shall receiveany payment
until all those of the preceding class are fully paid.

§ 1646. The executor or administrator, as
soon as he has sufficient funds in his hands, must pay
the funeral expenses and the expenses of the last sickness, and the allowance made to the family of the
decedent. He may retain in his hands the necessary
expenses of administration, but he is not obliged to
pay any other debt or any legacy until, as prescribed
in this Article, the payment has been ordered by the
Court.

§ 1647. Upon the settlement of the accounts of the executor or administrator, at the end of
the year, as required in this Chapter, the Court must
make an order for the payment of the debts, as the
circumstances of the estate require. If there is not
sufiicient funds in the hands of the executor or administrator, the Court must specify in the decree the sum
to be paid to each creditor. If the Whole property of
the estate be exhausted by such payment or distribution, such -account must be considered as a final account, and the executor or administrator is entitled to
his discharge, on producing and filing the necessary
vouchers and proofs showing that such payments have
been made, and that he has‘fully complied with the
decree of the Court.

§ 1648. If there is any claim not due, or
any contingent or disputed claim against the estate,
the amount thereof, or such part of the same as the
holder would be entitled to if the claim were due,
established, or absolute, must be paid into the Court,
and there remain, to be paid over to the party when
he becomes entitled thereto; or, if he fails to establish
his claim, to be paid over or distributed as the circumstances of the estate require. If any creditor Whose
claim has been allowed, but is not yet due, appears
and assents to a deduction therefrom of the legal interest for the time the claim has yet to run, he is entitled to be paid accordingly. The payments provided
for in this section are not to be made when the estate
is insolvent, unless a pro rata distribution is ordered.

§ 1649. When a ‘decree is made by the
Probate Court for the payment of creditors, the executor or administrator is personally liable to each creditor for his allowed claim, or the dividend thereon, and
execution may be issued on such decree, as upon a
judgment in the District Court, in favor of each creditor, and the same proceeding may be had under such
execution as if it had been issued from the District
Court. The executor or administrator is liable therefore, on his bond, to each creditor.

§ 1650. When the accounts of the administrator or executor have been settled, and an order
made for the payment of debts and distribution of
the estate, no creditor Whose claim was not included
in the order for payment has any right to call upon
the creditors who have been paid, or upon the heiis,
devisees, or legatees to contribute to the payment of
his claim; but if the executor or administrator has
failed to give the notice to the creditors, as prescribed

in Section 1491, such creditor may recover on the
bond of the executor or administrator the amount of

his claim, or such part thereof as he would have been
entitled to had it been allowed. This section shall
not apply to any creditor whose claim was not due
ten months before the day of settlement, or Whose
claim Was contingent and did not become absolute ten
months before such day.

§ 1651. If the Whole of the debts have
been paid by the first distribution, the Court must

direct the payment of legacies and the distribution of
the estate among the heirs, legatees, or other persons

entitled, as provided in the next Chapter; but if there
be debts remaining unpaid, or if, for other reasons, the
estate be not in a proper condition to be closed, the
Court must give such extension of time as may be
reasonable for a iinal settlement of the estate.

§ 1652. At the time designated in the _last section, or sooner, if Within that time all the property
of the estate has been sold, or there are sudicient
funds inihis hands for the payment of all the debts due
by the estate, and the estate be in a proper condition
to be closed, the executor or administrator must render a final account, and pray a settlement of his administration.

§ 653. If he neglects to render his account,
the same proceedings may be had as prescribed in this Chapter in regard to the first account to be rendered
by him; and all the provisions of this Chapter relative
to the last mentioned account, and the notice and settlement thereof, apply to his account presented for final
settlement.


§ 1658. At any time after the lapse of four
months from the issuing of letters testamentary or oft
administration, any heir, devisee, or legatee may pref
sent his petition to the Court for the legacy or sharel
of the estate to which he is entitled, to be given to
him upon his giving bonds, with security, for the payment of his proportion of the debts of the estate.

§ 1659. Notice of the application must be;
given to the executor or administrator, personally, and?
to all persons interested in the estate, in the same?
manner that notice is required to be given of the set;
tlement of the account of an executor or administnltor1660. The executor or administrator, or
any person interested in the estate, may appear at. the
time named and resist the application, or any other
heir, devisee, or legatee may make a similar applica
tion for himself.

§ 1661. If at the hearing,
it appears that the estate is but little indebted, and
that the share of the party applying may be allowed
to him without lossto the creditors of the estate, the
Court must make an order in conformity with the
prayer of the applicant, requiring:

1. Each heir, legatee, or devisee obtaining snchl
order, before receiving his share or any portion thereoii
to execute and deliver to the executor or administrator a bond, in such sum as shall be designated by the
Probate Judge, with sureties to be approved by thz
Judge, payable to the executor or administrator, and
conditioned for the payment, whenever required, of

his proportion of the debts due from the estate, not 5
exceeding the value or amount of the legacy or por- 3
tion of the estate to which he is entitled; ‘

2. The executor or administrator to deliver to the
heir, legatee, or devisee the whole portion of the
estate to which he may be entitled, or only a part
thereof, designating it.

If, in the execution of the order, a partition is necessary, between two or more of the parties interested, it
must be made in the manner hereinafter prescribed.
The costs of these proceedings to be paid by the
applicant, or if there be more than one, to be apportioned equally amongst them.

§ 1662. When any bond has been executed and delivered, under the provisions of the preceding section, and it is necessary for the settlement
of the estate to require the payment of any part of
the money thereby secured, the executor or administrator must petition the Court for an order requiring
the payment, and have a citation issued and served on
the party bound, requiring him to appear and show
cause why the order should not be made. At the
hearing, the Court, if satisiied of the necessity of such
payment, must make an order accordingly, designating
the amount and giving a time within which it must be
paid. If the money is not paid within the time allowed,

an action may be maintained by the executor or
administrator on the bond.


§ 1665. Upon the final settlement of the
accounts of the executor or administrator, or at any
subsequent time, upon the application of the executor
or administrator, or of any heir, legatee, or devisee,
the Court must proceed to distribute the residue of

the estate in the hands of the executor or administrator, if any, among the persons who by law are entitled thereto ; and if the decedent has leR a surviving
child, and the issue of other children, and any of them,
before the close of administration, have died while
under age and not having been married, no administration on such deceased child’s estate is necessary,
but all the estate which such deceased child was entitled to by inheritance must, without administration, be
distributed to the other heirs at law. A statement of
any receipts and disbursements of the executor or administrator, since the rendition of his nnal accounts,
must be reported and filed at the time of making such
distribution, and a settlement thereof, together with
an estimate of the expenses of closing the estate, must
be made by the Court and included in the order or
decree; or the Court or Judge may order notice of
the settlement of such supplementary account, and
refer the same as in other cases of the settlement of

accounts.

§ 1666. In the order or decree, the Court
must name the persons and the proportions or parts to
which each shall be entitled, and such persons may
demand, sue for, and recover their respective shares
from the executor or administrator, or any person having the same in possession. Such order or decree is
conclusive as to the rights of heirs, legatees, or devisees, subject only to be reversed, set aside, or modified
on appeal.

\

§ 1667. Upon application for distribution,
after final settlement of the accounts of administration,
if the decedent was a non-resident of this State, leaving a will which has been duly proved or allowed in
the State of his residence, and an authenticated copy
thereof has been admitted to probate in this State,
and it is necessary, in order that the estate or any part
thereof may be distributed according to the Will, that
the estate in this State should be delivered to the
executor or administrator in the State or place of his
residence, the Court may order such delivery to be
made, and, if necessary, order a sale of the real estate,
and a like delivery of the proceeds. The delivery, in
accordance with the order of the Court, is a full discharge of the executor or administrator with the will
annexed, in this State, in relation to all property embraced in such order, which, unless reversed on appeal,
binds and concludes all parties in interest. Sales of
real estate ordered by virtue of this section must be
made in the same manner as other sales of real estate
of decedents by order of the Probate Court.

§ 1668. The order or decree may be made

on the petition of the executor or administrator, or of
any person interested in the estate, but notice must be
given, or waived, unless distribution is made, or the
time for making it is fixed by order of the Court at
the time of the settlement of the final account. All
proceedings not so Waived or dispensed with, must be
had in the manner provided in Article IV, Chapter
VII, of this Title, for sale of real estate by an executor or' administrator. The Court may order such
further notice to be given as it may deem proper. If
partition is applied for, as provided in this Chapter,
such decree shall not divest the Court of jurisdiction
for the purposes of partition, unless the estate is finally
closed.

§ 1669. Before any decree of distribution
of an estate is made, the Probate Court must be satisfied, by the oath of the executor or administrator, or
otherwise, that all State, county, and municipal taxes,

legally levied upon personal property of the estate,
have been fully paid.

§ 1675. When the estate, real or personal,
assigned by the decree of distribution to two or more
heirs, devisees, or legatees, is in common and undivided, and the respective shares are not separated and
distinguished, partition, or distribution, may be made
by three disinterested persons, to be appointed Commissioners for that purpose by the Probate Court or
Judge, Who must be duly sworn to the faithful discharge of their duties. A certified copy of the order
of their appointment, and of the order or decree
assigning and distributing the estate, must be issued
to them as their warrant, and their oath must _be
indorsed thereon. Upon consent of the parties, or
when the Court deems it proper and just, it is sufficient to appoint one Commissioner only, who has the
same authority and is governed by the same ‘rules as
if three were appointed.

§ 1676. Such partition may be ordered and
had in the Probate Court, on the petition of any person interested. But before Commissioners are appointed, or partition ordered by the Probate Court as
directed in this Chapter, notice thereof must be given
to all persons interested, who reside in this State, or
to their guardians, and to the agents, attorneys, or
guardians, if any in this State, of such as reside out of
the State, either personally or by public notice, as the
Probate Court may direct. The petition may be filed,
attorneys, guardians, and agents appointed, and notice
given, at any time before the order or decree of distribution, but the Commissioners must not be appointed
until the order or decree is made distributing the
estate.

§ 1677. If the real estate is in different
counties, the Probate Court may, if deemed proper,
appoint a Commissioner for all, or different Commissioners for each county. The estate in each county
must be divided separately among the heirs, devisees,
or legatees, as if there was no other estate to be
divided, but the Commissioner first appointed must,
unless otherwise directed by the Probate Court, make division of such real estate, wherever situated within

this State.

§ 1678. Partition or distribution of the
real estate may be made as provided in this Chapter,
although some of the original heirs, legatees, or devisees may have conveyed their shares to other persons,
and such shares must be assigned to the person holding
the same, in. the same manner as they otherwise would

have been to such heirs, legatees, or devisees.

§ 1679. When both distribution and partition are made, the several shares in the real and personal estate must be set out to each, individual in
proportion to his right, by metes and bounds, or
description, so that the same can be easily distinguished, unless two or more of the parties interested
consent to have their shares setiout so as to be held by
them in common and undivided.

§ 1680. When the real estate cannot be

- divided without prejudice or inconvenience to the

owners, the Probate‘ Court may assign the whole to
one or more of the parties entitled to share therein
who will accept it, always preferring the males to the
females, and among children preferring the elder to the
younger. The parties accepting the whole must pay
to the other parties interested their just proportion of
the true value thereof, or secure the same to their
satisfaction, or, in case of the minority of such party,
then to the satisfaction of his guardian, and the true
value of the estate must be ascertained and reported
by the Commissioners. When the Commissioners
appointed to make partition are of the opinion that
the real estate cannot be divided without prejudice or
inconvenience to the owners, they must so report to the
Court, and recommend that the whole be assigned as
herein provided, and must find and report the true
value of such real estate. On filing the report of the
Commissioners, and on making or securing the payment as before provided, the Court, if it appears just
and proper, must confirm the report, and thereupon
the assignment is complete, and the title to the whole
of such real estate vests in the person to whom the
same is so assigned. '

§ 1681. When any tract of land or tenement is of greater value than any one’s share in the
estate to be divided, and cannot be divided Without

injury to the same, it may be set off by the Commissioners appointed to make partition to any of the parties who will accept it, giving preference as prescribed
in the preceding section. The party accepting must
pay or secure to the others such sums as the Commissioners shall award to make the partition equal, and
the Commissioners must make their award accordingly; but such partition must not be established by
the Court until the sums awarded are paid to the parties entitled to the same, or secured to their satisfaction.

§ 1682. When it appears to the Court,
from the Commissioners’ report, that it cannot otherwise be fairly divided, and should be sold, the Court
may order the sale of the whole or any part of the
estate, real or personal, by the executor or administrator, or by a Commissioner appointed for that purpose,
and the proceeds distributed. The sale must be conducted, reported, and confirmed in the same manner

and under the same requirements provided in Article
IV, Chapter VII of this Title.

§ 1683. Before any partition is made or
any estate divided, as provided in this Chapter, notice
must be given to all persons interested in the partition, their guardians, agents, or attorneys, by the Commissioners, of the time and place when and where
they shall proceed to make partition. The Commissioners may take testimony, order surveys, and take
such other steps as may be necessary to enable them
to form a judgment upon the matters before them.

§ 1684. The Commissioners must report
their proceedings, and the partition agreed upon by
them, to the Probate Court, in writing, and the Court
may, for sufficient reasons, set aside the report and
commit the same to the same Commissioners, or

appoint others; and When such report is finally coniirmed, a certified copy of the judgment or decree of
partition made thereon, attested by the Clerk, under
the seal of the Court, must be recorded in the office
of the Recorder of the county where the lands lie.

§ 1685. When the Probate Court makes a
judgment or decree assigning the residue of any estate
to one or more persons entitled to the same, it is not
necessary to appoint Commissioners to make partition
or distribution thereof, unless the parties to whom the

assignment is decreed, or some of them, request that
such partition be made.

§ 1686. All questions as to advancements
made, or alleged to have been made, by the decedent
to his heirs, may be heard and determined by the
Probate Court, and must be specified in the decree
assigning and distributing the estate; and the final
judgment or decree of the Probate Court, or, in case
of appeal, of the Supreme Court, is binding on all
parties interested in the estate.

§ 1691. When any estate is assigned or
distributed by a judgment or decree of the Court, as
provided in this Chapter, to any person residing out

of and having no agent in this State, and it is necessary that some person should be authorized to take
possession and charge of the same for the benefit of
such absent person, the Court may appoint an agent
for that purpose, and authorize him to take charge of
such estate as well as to act for such absent person in
the distribution. 2

§ 1692. The agent must first give a bond
to the Probate Judge, to be approved by him, conditioned that he shall faithfully manage and account for
the estate. The Court appointing such agent may
allow a reasonable sum out of the profits of the estate
for his services and expenses.

§ 1693. When personal property remains
in the hands of the agent unclaimed for a year, and it
appears to the Court that it is for the benefit of those
interested, it shall be sold under the order of the Court,
and the proceeds, after deducting the expenses of the

‘sale allowed by the Court, must be paid into the State

Treasury. ‘ When the payment is made, the agent
must take from the Treasury duplicate receipts, one
of which he must file in the office of the Controller,
and the other in the Probate Court.

§ 694. The agent must render to the Probate Court
appointing him, annually, an account, showing:

1. The value and character of the property received «
by him, what portion thereof is still on hand, What
sold, and for what;

2. The income derived therefrom;

3. The taxes and assessments imposed thereon, for
what, and whether paid or unpaid;

4. Expenses incurred in the care, protection, and
management thereof, and whether paid or unpaid.

W’hen filed, the Probate Court may examine witnesses and take proofs in regard to the account; and if
satisfied from such accounts and proofs that it will be

for the benefit and advantage of the persons interested
therein, the Court may, by order, direct a sale to be
made of the Whole or such parts of the real or personal property as shall appear to be proper, and the
purchase money to be deposited in the State Treasury.

§ 1695. The agent is liable on his bond
for the care and preservation of the estate While in his
hands, and for the payment of the proceeds of the
sale as required in the preceding sections, and may be
sued thereon by any person interested.

§ 1696. When any person appears and
claims the money paid into the Treasury, the Probate
Court making the distribution must inquire into such
claim, and being first satisfied of his right thereto,
must grant him a certificate to that effect, under its
seal; and upon the presentation of the certificate to
him, the Controller must draw his Warrant on the
Treasurer for the amount.

§ 1697. “Then the estate has been fully
administered, and it is shown by the executor or administrator, by the production of satisfactory vouchers,
that he has paid all sums of money due from him, and
delivered up, under the order of the Court, all the
property of the estate to the parties entitled, and performed all the acts lawfully required of him, the Court
must make a judgment or decree discharging him
from all liability to be incurred thereafter.

§ 1698. The final settlement of an estate
does not prevent the subsequent issuance of letters
testamentary, or of administration with the Will annexed, whenever other property of the estate is discovered, or whenever it becomes necessary or proper,
from any cause, that letters should be again issued.

§ 1704. All orders and decrees made by
the Probate Court during its terms, and all orders
which the Probate Judge is specially authorized to
make out of term time or at chambers, must be
entered at length in the minute book of the Court.
Upon the close of each term the Judge must sign the
minutes.

§ 1705. When any publication is ordered,
such publication must be made daily or otherwise, as
o&en during the prescribed period as the paper is regularly issued, unless otherwise provided in this Title.

The Court or Judge may, however, order a less number of publications during the period.

§ 1706. When it is provided in this Title
that any order or decree of a Probate Court or Judge,
or a copy thereof, must be recorded in the office of the
County Recorder, from the time of filing the same for
record notice is imparted to all persons of the contents
thereof.

§ 1707. Citations must be directed to the person to
be cited, signed by the Clerk, and issued under the
seal of the Court, and must contain:

1. The title of the proceeding;

2. A brief statement of the nature of the proceeding;

3. A direction that the person cited’ appear at a time
and place speciiied. ’

§ 1708. The citation may be issued by the Clerk

' upon the application of any party, vvithout an order of

the Judge, except in cases in which such order is by
the provisions of this Title expressly required.

§ 1709. The citation must be served in the same
manner as a summons in a civil action.

§ 1710. When personal notice is required, and no
mode of giving it is prescribed in this Title, it must
be given by citation.

§ 1711. When no other time is specially
prescribed in this Title, citations must be served at
least five days before the return day thereof.

§ 1712. When a complete description of the real
property of an estate sought to be sold has been given
and published in a newspaper, as required in the order
to show cause Why the sale should not be made, such
description need not be published in any subsequent

notice of sale, or notice of a petition for the confirmation thereof. It is sufiicient to refer to the description
contained in the publication of the firstnotice, as being
proved and on file in the Court.

§ 1713. Except as otherwise provided in
this Title, the provisions of Part II of this Code are
applicable to and constitute the rules of practice in the
proceedings mentioned in this Title.

§ 1714. The provisions of Part II of this Code, relative to new trials and appeals—except in so far as they
are inconsistent with the provisions of this Titleapply to the proceedings mentioned in this Title.

§ 1715. The appeal must be taken within sixty days

after the order, decree, or judgment is entered.

§ 1716. All issues of fact joined in the
Probate Court must be tried in conformity with the
requirements of Article II, Chapter II, of this Title,
and in all such proceedings the party affirming is
plaintifff, and the one denying or avoiding is defendant.
Judgments therein on the issues joined, as well as for
costs, may be entered and enforced by execution or
otherwise, by the Probate Court, as in civil actions.

§ 1717. If no jury is demanded, the Court
must try the issues joined. If, on written demand, a
jury is called by either party, and the issues are not
sufiiciently made up by the written pleadings on file,
the Court, on due notice to the opposite party, must

. settle and frame the issues to be tried, and submit the

same, together with the evidence of each party, to the
jury, on which they must render a verdict. Either
may move for a new trial upon the same grounds and
errors, and in like manner, as provided in this Code
for civil actions.

§ 1718. At or before the hearing of petitions and contests for the probate of Wills; for letters
testamentary or of administration; for sales of real
estate and confirmations thereof; settlements, partitions, and distributions of estates; setting apart homesteads; and all other proceedings Where all the parties
interested in the estate are required to be notified
thereof, the Court must appoint some competent attorney. at law to represent, in all such proceedings, the
devisees, legatees, heirs, or creditors of the decedent,
who are minors and have no general guardian in the
county, or who are non-residents of the State; and
may, if he deem it necessary, appoint an attorney to
represent those interested who, though they are neither
such minors or non-residents, are unrepresented. The
order must specify the names of the parties for whom
the attorney is appointed, who is thereby authorized
to represent such parties in all such proceedings had
subsequent to his appointment. The appearance of
the attorney is sufficient proof of the service of the
notice on the parties he is appointed to represent.
The attorney may receive from the distributive shares
of the estate set apart for the parties Whom he represents, a fee not exceeding fifty dollars for his entire
services; if there is no distribution of the estate, this
fee must be paid out of the funds of the estate as
necessary expenses of administration. L‘, for any
cause, it becomes necessary, the Probate Court may
substitute another attorney for the one first appointed,
in vvhich case the fee must be proportionately divided.

§ 1719. VVhen a judgment or decree is
made, setting apart a homestead, confirming a sale,
making distribution of real es-tate, or determining any
other matter affecting the title to. real estate, a certified copy of the same must be recorded in the office
of the Recorder of the county in which the land is

situated. If the person entitled to the hoinestead or
‘distribution is also executor or administrator, the
recorded order of the Probate Court vests title
thereto in such person, without a deed from the
executor or administrator.

§ 1720. When it is not otherwise prescribed in this Title, the Probate Court, or the
Supreme Court on appeal, may, in its discretion, order
costs to be paid by any party to the proceedings, or
out of the assets of the estate, as justice may require.
Execution for the costs may issue out of the Probate

Court.

§ 1721. Whenever an executor, administrator, or
guardian is committed for contempt, in disobeying
any lawful order of the Probate Court or the Judge
thereof, and has remained in custody for thirty days
Without obeying such order or purging himself otherwise of the contempt, the Probate Court may, by
order reciting the facts, and Without further showing
or notice, revoke his letters and appoint some other
person, entitled thereto, executor, administrator, or
guardian in his stead.


§ 1726. Every Public Administrator, duly elected,
dommissioned, and qualified, must take charge 'of the
estates of persons dying within his county, as follows:

1. Of the estates of decedents for which no administrators are appointed, and Which, in consequence
thereof, are being Wasted, uncared for, or lost;

2. Of the estates of decedents who leave no known
heirs;

3. Of estates ordered into his hands by the Probate
Court; and,

4. Of estates upon which letters of administration
have been issued to him by the Probate Court.

§ 1727. Vvhenever a Public Administrator takes
charge of an estate, which he is entitled to administer without letters of administration being issued, or
under order of the Court, he must, with all convenient
dispatch, procure letters of administration thereon, in

like manner and on like proceedings as letters of administration are issued to other persons. His oflzicial
bond and oath are in lieu of the administrator’s bond
and oath; but when real estate is ordered to be sold,
another bond may be required by the Court.

§ 1728. Whenever a stranger, or A person
without known heirs, .dies intestate in the house or
premises of another, the possessor of such premises, or
any one knowing the facts, must give immediate notice;
thereof to the Public Administrator of the county; and
in default of so doing, he is liable for any damage that
may be sustained thereby, to be recovered by the
Public Administrator, or any party interested.

§ 1729. The Public Administrator must
make and return a perfect inventory of all estates
taken into his possession, administer and account for
the same, according to the provisions of this Title,
subject to the control and direction of the Probate

Court.

§ 1730. If, at any time, letters testamentr
ary or of administration are regularly ‘granted to any
other person on an estate of which the Public Administrator has charge, he must, under the order of the
Probate Court, account for, pay, and deliver to the
executor or administrator thus appointed, all the money,
property, papers, and estate of every kind in his possession or under his control.

§ 1731. All civil officers must inform the
Public Administrator of all property known to them,
belonging to a decedent, which is liable to loss, injury,
or waste, and which, by reason thereof, ought to be in
the possession of the Public Administrator.

§ 1732. The Public Administrator must
institute all suits and prosecutions necessary to recover

the property, debts, papers, or other estate ‘of the
decedent.

§ 1733. \Vhen the Public Administrator
complains to the Probate Judge, on ‘oath, that any person has concealed, embezzled, or disposed of, or has in
his possession, any money, goods, property, or eifects,
to the possession of Which such administrator is entitled in his oiiicial capacity, the Judge may cite such
person to appear before the Probate Court, and may
examine him on oath touching the matter of such
complaint.

§ 1734. All such interrogatories and answers
must be reduced to Writing and signed by the party
examined, and filed in the Probate Court. If the
person so cited refuses to appear and submit to such
an examination, or ‘to answer such interrogatories as
may be put to him touching the matter of such complaint, the Court may commit him to the County Jail,
there to remain in close custody until he submits to
the order of the Court.

§ 1735. The Probate Court may at any
time order the Public Administrator to account for
and deliver all the money and property of an estate in
his hands to the heirs, or to the executors or administrators regularly appointed.

§ 1736. The Public Administrator must,
once in every six months, make to the Probate Judge,
under oath, a return of all estates of decedents which
have come into his hands, the value of the same, the
money which has come into his hands from such
estate, and what he has done with it, and the amount
of his fees and expenses incurred, and the balance, if
any, remaining in his hands; publish the same six
times in some newspaper in the county, or if there is

none, then post the same, legibly written or printed,
in the office of the County Clerk of the county.

§ 1737. Aiter a final settlement of the affairs of any
estate, if there be no heirs or other claimants thereof,
the Public Administrator must pay over to the County
Treasury, to be paid into the State Treasury, all meneys and effects in his hands belonging to the estate,
and if any such monies and effects escheat to the
State, they must be disposed of .as other escheated
estates.

§ 1738. The Public Administrator must
not be interested in the expenditures of any kind
made on_account of any estate he administers; nor
must he be associated, in business or otherwise, with
any one who is so interested, and he must attach to
his report and publication, made in accordance with
the preceding section, his affidavit to that effect.

§ 1739. Public Administrators are required
to account under oath, and to settle and adjust their
accounts, relating to the care and disbursement of
money or property belonging to estates in their hands,
with the County Clerks of their respective counties,
on the first Monday in each month; and they must
pay to the County Treasurer any money remaining in
their hands of an estate unclaimed, as provided in Sections 1693 to 1696, both, inclusive.

§ 1740. When it appears, from the returns made in
pursuance of the foregoing sections, that any money
remains in the hands of the Public Administrator (after
a final settlement of the estate) unclaimed, which should
be paid over to the County Treasurer, the Probate
Judge must order the same to be paid over to the
County Treasurer; and, on failure of the Public Administrator to comply with the order within ten days after
the same is made, the District Attorney for the county

must immediately institute the requisite legal proceedings against the Public Administrator, for a judgment
against him and the sureties on his official bond in the
amount of money so withheld, and costs.

§ 1741. The fees of all officers chargeable
to estates in the hands of Public Administrators must
be paid out of the assets thereof, so soon as the same
come into his hands.

§ 1742. Public Administrators may administer oaths in regard to all matters touching the discharge of their duties, or the administration of estates
in their hands. '

§ 1743. When no direction is given in this Chapter
for the government or guidance of a Public Administrator in the discharge of his duties, or for the administration of an estate in his hands, the provisions of the

preceding Chapters of this Title must govern.


§ 1747. The Probate Judge of each
county, when it appears necessary or convenient, may
appoint guardians for the persons and estates, or either
of them, of minors who have‘ no guardian legally
appointed by will, and who are inhabitants or residents
of the county, or who reside without the State and
have estate Within the county. Such appointment
may be made on the petition of a relative or other
person, in behalf of such minor. Before making the
appointment, the Judge must cause such notice as he
deems reasonable to be given to the relatives of the
minor residing in the county, and to any person under
whose care such minor may be, as he deems reasonable.

§ 1748. If the minor is under the age
of fourteen years, the Probate Judge may nominate
and appoint his guardian. If he is above the age of

fourteen years, he may nominate his own guardian,
who, if approved by the Judge, must be appointed
accordingly.

§ 1749. If the guardian nominated by
the minor is not approved by the Judge, or if the
minor resides out of the State, or if, after being duly
cited by the Judge, he neglects for .ten days to nominate a suitable person, the Judge may nominate and
appoint the guardian, in the same manner as if the
minor were under the age of fourteen years.

§ 1750. When a guardian has been
appointed by the Court for a minor under the age of
fourteen years, the minor, at any time after he attains
that age, may appoint his own guardian, subject to
the approval of the Probate Judge.

§ 1751. The father of the minor, if
living, and in case of his decease the mother, while
she remains umnarried, being themselves respectively
competent to transact their own business and not otherwise unsuitable, must be entitled to the guardianship
of the minor.

§ 1752. If the minor has no father or
mother living, competent to have the custody and care
of his education, the guardian appointed shall have
the same.

§ 1753. Every guardian appointed shall
have the custody and care of the education of the
minor, and the care and management of his estate,
until such minor arrives at the age of majority or marries, or until the guardian is legally discharged.

§ 1754. Before the order appointing
any person guardian under this Chapter takes effect,
and before letters issue, the Judge must require of such

person a bond to the minor, with suiiieient sureties, to
be approved by the Judge, and in such sum as he shall
order, conditioned that the guardian will faithfully
execute the duties of his trust according to law; and
the following conditions shall form a part of suchpbond,
Without being expressed therein:

1. To make an inventory of all the estate, real and
personal, of his Ward that comes to his possession or
knowledge, and to return the same within such time
as the Judge may order;

2. To dispose of and manage the estate according to
law and for the best interest of the ward, and faithfully to discharge his trust in relation thereto, and also
in relation to the care, custody, and education of the
ward; '

3. To render an account, on oath, of the property,

-estate, and monies of the ward in his hands, and all

proceeds or interests derived therefrom, and of the
management and disposition of the same, within three
months after his appointment, and at such other times
as the Court directs; and at the expiration of his trust
tosettle his accounts with the Probate Judge, or with
the ward, if he be of full age, or his legal representatives, and to pay over and deliver all the estate, monies,
and effects remaining in his hands, or due from him on
such settlement, to the person who is lawfully entitled
thereto.

Upon filing the bond, duly approved, letters of guardianship must issue to the person appointed. In form,
the letters of guardianship must be substantially the
same as letters of administration; and the oath of the
guardian must be indorsed thereon that he will perform the duties of his office, as such guardian, according to law.

§ 1755. When any person is appointed
guardian of a minor, the Probate Judge may, with the
consent of such person, insert in the order of appointment conditions not otherwise obligatory, providing
for the care, treatment, education, and welfare of the
minor. The performance of such conditions is a part
of the duties of the guardian, for the faithful performance of which he and the sureties on his bond are
responsible.

§ 756. All letters of guardianship‘

issued, and all guardians’ bonds executed under the

'_ provisions of this Chapter, with the affidavits and certificates thereon, must be recorded by the Clerk of the
Probate Court having jurisdiction of the persons and
estates of the wards.

§ 1757. If any minor, having a father
living, has property, the income of which is sufficient
for his maintenance and education in a manner more
expensive than his father can reasonably afford, regard
being bad to the situation of the father’s family and
to all the circumstances of the case, the expenses of
the education and maintenance of such minor may be
defrayed out of the income of his own property, in
whole or in part, as judged reasonable, and must be
directed by the Probate. Court; and the charges therefore may be allowed accordingly in the settlement of the
accounts of his guardian.

§ 1758. Every testamentary guardian
must give bond and qualify, and has the same powers
and must perform the same duties, with regard to the
person and estate of his ward, as guardians appointed
by the Probate Court, except so far as their powers
and duties are legally modified, enlarged, or changed
by the will by which such guardian was appointed.

§ 1759. Nothing contained in this Chapter affects or impairs the power of any Court to
appoint a guardian to defend the interests of any minor
interested in any suit or matter pending therein.

§ 1763. When it is represented to the
Probate Judge, upon verified petition of any relative
or friend, that any person is insane, or from any cause
mentally incompetent to manage his property, the
Judge must cause a notice to be given to the supposed
insane or incompetent person, of the time and place
of hearing the case, not less than ‘rive days before the
time so appointed, and such person, if able to attend,
must be produced before him on the hearing.

§ 1764. If, after a full hearing and
examination upon such petition, it appears to the Probate Judge that the person in question is incapable of
taking care of himself and managing his property, he
must appoint a guardian of his person and estate, with
the powers and duties in this Chapter specified.

§ 1765. Every guardian appointed, as
provided in the preceding section, has the care and
custody of the person of his ward, and the management of all his estate, until such guardian is legally
discharged; and he must give bond to such Ward. in
like manner and with like conditions as before prescribed with respect to the guardian of a minor.

§ 1768. Every guardian appointed
under the provisions of this Chapter, Whether for a
minor or any other person, must pay all just debts due
from the Ward, out of his personal estate and the
income of his real estate, if sufficient; if not, then out
of his real estate, upon obtaining an order for the sale
thereof, and disposing of the same in the manner provided in this Title for the sale of real estate of decedents.

§ 1769. Every guardian must settle
all accounts of the Ward, and demand, sue for, and
receive all debts due to him, or may, with the approbation of the Probate Judge, compound for the same
and give discharges to the debtors on receiving a fair
and just dividend of his estate and effects; and he
must appear for and represent his ward in all legal
suits and proceedings, unless another person is appointed for that purpose as guardian or next friend.

§ 1770. Every guardian must manage
the estate of his Ward frugally and without Waste, and
apply the income and profits thereof, as far as may be
necessary, for the comfortable and suitable maintenance and support of the ward and his family, if there
be any; and if such income and profits be insufiicient
for that purpose, the guardian may sell the real estate,
upon obtaining an order of the Court therefore, as provided, and must apply the proceeds of such sale, as
far as may be necessary, for the maintenance and support of the ward and his family, if there be any.

§ 1771. When a guardian has advanced, for the A
necessary maintenance, support, or education of his
ward, an amount not disproportionate to the value of A
his estate or his condition of life, and the same is
made to appear to the satisfaction of the Court, by
proper vouchers and proofs, the guardian must be
allowed credit therefore in his settlements. Whenever
a guardian fails, neglects, or refuses to furnish suitable
and necessary maintenance, support, or education for
his ward, the Court may order him to do so, and enforce such order by proper process. Whenever any
third person, at his request, supplies a ward with such
suitable and necessary maintenance, support, or eduea»
tion, and it is shown to have been done after refusal
or neglect of the guardian to supply the same, the
Court may direct the guardian to pay therefore out of
the estate, and enforce such payment by due process.

§ 1772. The guardian may join in and
assent to a partition of the real estate of the ward,
wherever such assent may be given by any person.

§ 1773. Every guardian must return
to the Probate Court an inventory of the estate of his
ward within three months after his appointment, and
annually thereafter. VVhen the value of the estate
exceeds the sum of one hundred thousand dollars,
semi-annual returns must be made to the Probate
Court. The Probate Court may, upon application
made for that purpose by any person, compel the
guardian to render an account to the Probate Court
of the estate of his ward. The inventories and accounts so to be returned or rendered must be sworn to
by the guardian. All the estate of the ward described
in the first inventory must be appraised by appraisers
appointed, sworn, and acting in the manner provided
for regulating the settlement of the estate of decedents. Such inventory, with the appraisement of the

property therein described, must be recorded by the
Clerk of the Probate Court in a proper book kept
in his office for that purpose. Whenever any other
property of the estate of any ward is discovered, not
included in the inventory of the estate already returned, and whenever any other property has been
succeeded to or acquired by any ward, or for his benefit, the like proceedings must be had for the return
and appraisement thereof that are herein provided in
relation to the first inventory and return.

§ 1774. The guardian must, upon the
expiration of a year from the time of his appointment,
and as often thereafter as he may be required, present

his account to the Probate Court for settlement and
allowance.

§ 1775. When an account is rendered

by two or more joint guardians, the Probate Judge
may, in his discretion, allow the same upon the oath
of any of them. 

§ 1776. Every guardian must be allowed the amount of his reasonable expenses incurred .

in the execution of his trust, and he must also have
such compensation for his services as the Court in

which his accounts are settled deems just and reasonable.

§ 1777. When the income of an estate under guardianship is insufficient to maintain the
ward and his family, or to maintain and educate the
ward when a minor, his guardian may sell his real or
personal estate for that purpose, upon obtaining an
order therefore.

§ 1778. When it appears to the satisfaction of the Court, upon the petition of the guardian,
that for the benefit of his ward his real estate, or some
part thereof; should be sold, and the proceeds thereof
put out at interest, or invested in some productive
stock, or in the improvement or security of any other
real estate of the ward, his guardian may sell the
same for such purpose, upon obtaining an order therefore.

§ 1779. If the estate is sold for the
purposes mentioned in this Article, the guardian must
apply the proceeds of the sale to such purposes, as far
as necessary, and put out the residue, if any, on interest, or invest it in the best manner in his power, until
the capital is wanted for the maintenance of the Ward
and his family, or the education of his children, or for

the education of the ward when a minor, in which case
the capital may be used for that purpose, as far as may
be necessary, in like manner as if it had been personal
estate of the ward. ‘

§ 1780. If the estate is sold for the
purpose of putting out or investing the proceeds, the
guardian must make the investment according to his

best judgment, or in pursuance of any order that may
be made by the [Probate Court.

§ 1781. To obtain an order for such
sale, the guardian must present to/the Probate Court
of the county in which ‘he was appointed guardian, a
verified petition therefoaj. settir'* forth the condition
of the estate of his ward, “curt I flcts and circumstances on which the p’ I _.....}unded, tending to
show the necessity or e Way of a sale.

§ 1782. If it appears to the Court or
Judge, from the petition, that it is necessary or would
be beneficial to the ward that the real estate, or some
part of it, should be sold, or that the real and personal
estate should be sold, the Court or Judge must thereupon make an order directing the next of kin of the
Ward, and all persons interested in the estate, to appear
before the Court, at a time and place therein specified,
not less than four nor more than eight weeks from the
time of making such order, to show cause why an order
should not be granted for. the sale of such estate. If
it appear that it is necessary or would be beneficial to
the ward to sell the personal estate or some part of it,
the Court must order the sale to be made.

§ 1783. A copy of the order must be
personally served on the next of kin of the ward, and
on all persons interested in the estate, at least fourteen
days before the hearing of the petition, or must be
published at least three successive weeks in a newspaper printed in the county, or if there be none printed
in the county, then in such newspaper as may be specified by the Court or Judge in the order. If Written
consent to making the orderof sale is subscribed by
all persons interested therein, and the next of kin,
notice need not be served or published.

§ 1784. The Probate Court, at the
time and place appointed in the order, or such other
time to which thehearing is postponed, upon proof of
the service or publication of the order, must hear and
examine the proofs and allegations of the petitioner
and of the next of kin, and of all other persons interested in the estate who oppose the application.

§ 1785.  On the hearing the guardian may be examined on oath, and witnesses may be produced and examined by either party, and process to
compel their attendance and testimony may be issued
by the Probate Court or Judge, in the same manner

and with like effect as in other cases provided for in
this Title.

§ 1786. If any person appears and
objects to the granting of any order prayed for under
the provisions of this Article, and it appears to the
Court that either the petition or the objection thereto
is sustained, the Court may, in granting or refusing
the order, award costs to the party prevailing, and
enforce the payment thereof.

§ 1787. If, after a full examination, it
appears necessary, or for the benefit of the Ward, that
his real estate, or some part thereof should be sold,
the Court may grant an order therefore, specifying
therein the causes or reasons Why the sale is necessary
or beneficial, and may, if the same has been prayed
for in the petition, order such sale to be made either’
at public or private sale.

§ 1788. Every guardian authorized to
sell real estate must, before the sale, give bond to the
Probate Judge, with sufficient surety, to be approved
by him, with condition to sell the same in the manner,
and to account for the proceeds of the sale, as provided for in this Chapter and Chapter VII of this Title.

§ 1789. All the proceedings under
petition of guardians for sales of property of their
wards, giving notice and the hearing of such petitions,
granting or refusing the order of sale, directing the
sale to be made at public or private sale, reselling the
same property, return of sale and application for connrmation thereof, notice and hearing of such application, making orders rejecting or coniirming sales and
reports of sales, ordering and making conveyances of
property sold, accounting and the settlement of accounts,
must be had and made as required by the provisions of
this Title concerning estates of deeedents, unless otherwise specially provided in this Chapter.

§ 1790. No order of sale granted in
pursuance of this Article continues in force more than

one year after granting the same, Without a sale being
had.

§ 1791. All sales of real estate of wards

must be for cash, or for part cash and part deferred
payments, not to exceed three years, hearing date from
date of sale, as, in the discretion of the Probate Judge,
is most beneiicial to the ward. Guardians making sales
must demand and receive from the purchasers bond
and mortgage on the real estate sold, with such additional security as the Judge deems necessary and sufiicient to secure the faithful payment of the deferred
payments and the interest thereon.

§ 1792. The Probate Court, on the
application of a guardian or any person interested in

the estate of any Ward, after such notice to persons
interested therein as the Probate Judge shall direct,
may authorize and require the guardian to invest the
proceeds of sales, and any other of his ward’s money
in his hands, in real estate, or in any other manner
most to the interest of all concerned therein; and the
Probate Court may make such other orders and give
such directions as are needful for the management,

investment, and disposition of the estate and effects, as
circumstances require.

§ 1793. When a person liable to be
put under guardianship, according to the provisions of
this Chapter, resides without this State, and has estate
therein, any friend of such person, or any one interested in his estate, in expectancy or otherwise, may
apply to the Probate Judge of any county in which
there is any estate of such absent person, for the
appointment of a guardian; and if, after notice given
to all interested, in such manner as the Judge orders,
and a full hearing and examination, it appears proper,
a guardian for such absent person may be appointed.

§ 1794. Every guardian, appointed
under the preceding section, has the same powers and
performs the same duties, with respect to the estate

of the Ward found Within this State, and with respect

to the person of the Ward, if he shall come to reside
therein, as are prescribed with respect to any other
guardian appointed under this Chapter.

§ 1795. Every guardian must give
bond to the ward, in the manner and with the like
conditions as hereinbefore provided for other guardians, except that the provisions respecting the inventory, the’ disposal of the estate and effects, and the
account to be rendered by the guardian, must be conhned to such estate and effects as come to his hands
in this State.

§ 1796. The guardianship which is
first lawfully granted, of any person residing Without
this State, extends to all the estate of the Ward Within
the same, and excludes the jurisdiction of the Probate

Court of every other county.

§ 1797. When the guardian and Ward
are both non-residents, and the Ward is entitled to
property in this State which may be removed to
another State or foreign country without coniiict with
any restriction or limitation thereupon, or impairing
the right of the Ward thereto, such property may be
removed to the State or foreign country _of the residence of the ward, upon the application of the
guardian to the Probate Judge of the county in
which the estate of the ward, or the principal part
thereof, is situated. T.

§ 1798. The application must be made
upon ten days notice to the resident, executor, administrator, or guardian, if there be such; and upon such
application the non-resident guardian must produce
and file a certihcate under the hand of the Clerk and
seal of the Court, from which his appointment was
derived, showing:

1. A transcript of the record of his appointment;

2. That he has entered upon the discharge of his
duties;
3. That he is entitled, by the laws of the State, to

his appointment to the possession of the estate of the
Ward.

Upon such application, unless good cause to the contrary is shown, the Probate Judge must make an order
granting to such guardian leave to take and remove
the property of his ward to the State or place of his
residence, which is authority to him to sue for and

receive the same in his own name, for the use and benefit of his ward.

§ 1799. Such order is a discharge of
the executor, administrator, local guardian, or other
person in whose possession the property may be at the
time the order is made, on filing with the Probate
Court the receipt therefore of the foreign guardian of
such absent Ward. '


§ 1800. Upon complaint made to him
by any guardian, Ward, creditor, or other person interested in the estate, or having a prospective interest‘

therein as heir or otherwise, against any one suspected

of having concealed, embezzled, or conveyed away any
of the money, goods, or effects, or an instrument in

Writing, belonging to the ward or to his estate, the
Probate Judge may cite such suspected person to
appear before him, and may examine and proceed with
him on such charge in the manner provided in this Title with respect to persons suspected of, and charged

‘with, concealing or embezzling the effects of a decedent.

§ 1801. When a guardian, appointed
either by the testator or the Probate Judge, becomes
insane or otherwise incapable of discharging his trust,
or unsuitable therefore, or has wasted or mismanaged
the estate, or failed, for thirty days, to render an
account or make a return, the Probate Court may,
upon such notice to the guardian as the Court may
require, remove him and compel him to surrender the
estate of the ward to the person found to be lawfully
entitled thereto. Every guardian may resign, when it
appears proper to allow the same; and upon the resignation or removal of a guardian, as. herein provided,
the Probate Court or the Judge thereof may appoint
another in the place of the guardian who has resigned
or has been removed.

§ 1802. The marriage of a minor ward
terminates the guardianship; and the guardian of an
insane or other person may be discharged by the Probate Judge when it appears to him, on the application
of the ward or otherwise, that the guardianship is no
longer necessary.

§ 1803. The Probate ,J udge may require a new bond to be given by a guardian Whenever
he deems it necessary, and may discharge the existing
sureties from further liability, after due notice given
as he may direct, when it shall appear that no injury
can result therefrom to those interested in the estate.

§ 1804. Every bond given by a guardian must be filed and preserved in the office of the
Clerk of the Probate Court of the county; and in case
of a breach of a condition thereof; may be prosecuted

for the use and beneht of the ward or of any person
interested in the estate.

§ 1805. No action can be maintained
against the sureties on any bond given by a guardian,
unless it be commenced within three years from the
discharge or removal of the guardian; but if at the
time of such discharge the person entitled to bring
such action is under any legal disability to sue, the
action may be commenced at any time within three
years after such disability is removed.

§ 1806. No action for the recovery of
any estate, sold by_a guardian, can be maintained by
the Ward, or by any person claiming under him, unless
it is commenced Within three years next after the termination of the guardianship, or when a legal disability to sue exists by reason of minority or otherwise,
at the time when the cause of action accrues, within
three years next after the removal thereof.

§ 1807. The Court, in its discretion,
whenever necessary, may appoint more than one guardian of any person subject to guardianship, who must
give bond and be governed and liable in all respects
as a sole guardian.

§ 1808. The power conferred upon the
Probate Judge in relation to guardians and Wards may
be exercised by him at chambers, or as the act of the
Probate Court, when holding such Court; and any
order appointing a guardian must be entered as and
become a decree of the Court. The provisions of this Title relative to the estates of decedents, so far as they

relate to the practice in the Probate or the District
Courts, apply to proceedings under this Chapter.

§ 1809. The provisions of Section 1057 are hereby
declared to apply to guardians appointed by the Court,
and to the bonds taken or to be taken from such guardians, and to the sureties on such bonds.

The sections in parentheses, thus (£5 39, 374), and so on, refer to the
Act of 1850, and Bclknap.

§ 1. A married Woman may become a sole trader
by the judgment of the County Court of the county
in which she has resided for six months next preceding
the application.

§ 1812. A person intending to make application to
become a sole trader must publish notice of such
intention in a newspaper published in the county, or
if none, then in a newspaper published in an adjoining
county, for four successive Weeks. The notice must
specify the term, and the day upon which application

will be made, the nature and place of the business

proposed to be conducted by her, and the name of
her husband.

§ 1813. Ten days prior to the day named in the
notice, the applicant must file a verilied petition, setting forth:

1. That the application is made in good faith, to
enable the applicant to support herself‘, or herself and
others dependent upon her, giving their names and
relation;

2. The fact of insufficient support from her husband,
and the causes thereof, if known;

3. Any other grounds of application which are good
causes for a divorce, with the reasonjvhy a divorce is
not sought; and,

4. The nature of the business proposed to be conducted, and the capital to be invested ‘therein, if any,
and the sources from vvhich it is derived.

§ 1814. The applicant may invest in the business
proposed to be conducted, a sum derived from the
community property or of the separate property of the
husband, not exceeding five hundred dollars.

§ 1815. Any‘ creditor of the husband may oppose
the application, by filing in the Court (prior to the
day named in the notice) a written opposition verified,
containing either:

1. A specific denial of the truth of any material
allegation of the petition; or setting forth,

2. That the application is made for the purpose of
defrauding the opponent; or,

3. That the application is made to prevent, or will
prevent, him from collecting his debt.

§ 1816. On the day named in the notice, or on such
other day to which the hearing may be postponed by

the Court, the applicant must make proof of publication of the notice hereinbefore required, and the issues
of fact joined, if any, must be tried as in other cases;
if no issues are joined, the Court must hear the proofs
of the applicant, and find the facts in accordance thereWith.

§ 1817. If the facts found sustain the petition, the
Court must render judgment, authorizing the applicant to carry on, in her own name and on her own
account, the business specified in the notice and petition.

§ 1818. The sole trader must make and file with the
1 Clerk of the Court an affidavit, in the following form:

“ I, A. B., do, in presence of Almighty God, solemnly
swear that this application was made in good faith, for
the purpose of enabling me to support myself (and any
dependent, such as husband, parent, sister, child, or the
like, naming them, if any), and’ not With any view to
defraud, delay, or hinder any creditor or creditors of
my husband; and that of the monies so to be used by
me in business, not more than five hundred dollars

have come, either directly or indirectly, from my husband. So help me, God.”

A certified copy of the decree, with this oath indorsed
thereon, must be recorded in the office of the Recorder
of the county where the business is to be carried on,
in a book to be kept for such purpose.

§ 1819. When the judgment is made and entered,
and a copy thereof, with the affidavit provided for in Section 1818, duly recorded, the person therein named
is entitled to carry on the business specified in her own
name, and the property, revenues, monies, and credits
so by her invested, and the profits thereof, belong
exclusively to her, and are not liable for any debtspf
her husband; and she thereafter has all the privileges
of and is liable to all legal processes provided for debtors and creditors, and may sue and be sued alone, without being joined with her husband.

§ 1820. A married Woman who is adjudged a sole
trader is responsible and liable for the maintenance of
her minor children.

§ 1821. The husband of a sole trader is not liable
for any debts contracted by her in the course of her
sole trader's business, unless contracted upon his written consent. ‘

§ 1822. Nothing in this Code affects any of the provisions of “An Act for the relief of insolvent debtors
and protection of creditors,” approved May fourth,
eighteen hundred and lifty-two, or of the Acts amendatory thereof, approved respectively March twelfth,
eighteen hundred and fifty-eight, April twenty-seventh,
eighteen hundred and sixty, and April twenty-seventh,
eighteen hundred and sixty-three, but such Acts are
recognized as continuing in force notwithstanding the
provisions of this Code.

§ 1823. Judicial evidence is the means, sanctioned
by law, of ascertaining in a judicial proceeding the
truth respecting a question of fact.

§ 1824. Proof is the effect of evidence, the establishment of a fact by evidence.

§ 1825. The law of evidence, which is the subject
of this part of the Code, is a collection of general rules
established by law:

1. For declaring what is to be taken as true without
proof;

2. For declaring the presumptions of law, both those
which are disputable and those which are conclusive;
and,

3. _For the production of legal evidence;

4. For the exclusion of whatever is not legal;

5. For determining, in certain cases, the value and
effect of evidence.

§ 1826. The law does not require demonstration;
that is, such a degree of proof as, excluding possibility
of error, produces absolute certainty; because such
proof is rarely possible. Moral certainty only is
required, or that degree of proof which produces conviction in an unprejudiced mind.

§ 1827. There are four kinds of evidence:

1. The knowledge of the Court;
2. The testimony of witnesses;

3. Writings; '
4. Other material objects presented to the senses.

§ 1828. There are several degrees of evidence:

1. Original and secondary;

2. Direct and indirect;

3. Primary, partial, satisfactory, indispensable, and
conclusive.

§ 1829. Original evidence is an original writing or
material object introduced in evidence.

§ 1830. Secondary evidence is a copy of such original Writing or object, or oral evidence thereof.

§ 1831. Direct evidence is that which proves the
fact in dispute, directly, without an inference or presumption, and which in itself, if true, conclusively
establishes that fact. For example: if the fact in dispute be an agreement, the evidence of a Witness who
was present and witnessed the making of it, is direct.

§ 1832. Indirect evidence is that which tends to
establish the fact in dispute by proving another, and
which, though true, does not of itself conclusively
establish that fact, but which affords an inference or
presumption of its existence. For example: a witness
proves an admission of the party to the fact in dispute.
This proves a fact, from which the fact in dispute is

inferred. 0

§ 1833. Primary evidence is that which suffices for
the proof of a particular fact, until contradicted and
overcome by other evidence. For example: the certilicate of a recording officer is primary evidence of a
record, but it may afterwards be rejected upon proof
that there is no such record.

§ 1834. Partial evidence is that which goes to establish a detached fact, in a series tending to the fact in
dispute. It may be received, subject to be rejected
as incompetent, unless connected with the fact in dispute by proof of other facts. For example: on an
issue of title to real property, evidence of the continued possession of a remote occupant is partial, for it is
of a detached fact, which may or may not be aRerWards connected with the fact in dispute.

§ 1835. That evidence is deemed satisfactory which
ordinarily produces moral certainty or conviction in an
unprejudiced mind. Such evidence alone will justify
a verdict. Evidence less than this is denominated

slight evidence.

§ 1836. Indispensable evidence is that without
which a particular fact cannot be proved.

§ 1837. Conclusive or unanswerable evidence is that
which the law does not permit to be contradicted.

For example, the record of a Court of competent jurisdiction cannot be contradicted by the parties to it.

§ 1838. Cumulative evidence is additional evidence
of the same character, to the same point.

§ 1839. Corroborative evidence is additional evidence of a diiferent character, to the same point.

§ 1844. The direct evidence of one Witness who is 4
entitled to full credit is sufficient for proof of any fact, '1
except perjury and treason. i

§ 1845. A witness can testify of those facts only
which he knows of his own knowledge; that is, which
are derived from his own perceptions, except in those
few express cases in which his opinions or inferences,
or the declarations of others, are admissible.

§ 1846. A witness can be heard only upon oath or
afiirmation, and upon a trial he can be heard only in
the presence and subject to the examination of all
the parties, if they choose to attend and examine.

§ 1847. A witness is presumed to speak the truth.
This presumption, however, may be repelled by the
manner in which he testifies, by the character of his
testimony, or by evidence affecting his character for
truth, honesty, or integrity, or his motives, or by contradictory evidence; and the jury are the exclusive
judges of his credibility.

§ 1848. The rights of the party cannot be prejudiced by the declaration, act, or omission of another,
except by virtue of a particular relation between
them; thereforee, proceedings against one cannot affect

another.

§ 1849. Where, however, one derives title to real
property from another, the declaration, act, or omission
of the latter, while holding the title, in relation to
the property, is evidence against the former.

§ 1850. Where, also, the declaration, act, or omission
forms part of a transaction, which is itself the fact in
dispute, or evidence of that fact, such declaration, act,
or omission is evidence, as part of the transaction.

§ 1851. And where the question in dispute between
the parties is the obligation or duty of a third person,
whatever would be evidence for or against such person
is primary evidence between the parties.

§ 1852. The declaration, act, or omission of a mem, ber of a family who is a decedent, or out of the jurisdiction, is also admissible as evidence of common reputation, in cases where, on qu8stions of pedigree, such
reputation is admissible.

§ 1853. The declaration, act, or omission of a decedent, having suiiicient knowledge of the subject, against
his pecuniary interest, is also admissible as evidence to
that extent against his successor in interest.

§ 1854. When part of an act, declaration, conversation, or writing is given in evidence by one party, the
whole on the same subject may be inquired into by the
other; when a letter is read, the answer may be given;
and when a detached act, declaration, conversation, or
writing is given in evidence, any other act, declaration, conversation, or writing, which is necessary to
make it understood, may also be given in evidence.

§ 1855. There can be no evidence of the
contents of a writing, other than the writing itself,

except in the following cases:
1. When the original has been lost or destroyed; in
which case proof of the loss or destruction must first

be made;
2. When the original is in the possession of the

party against whom the evidence is offered, and he

fails to produce it after reasonable notice;
3. When the original is a record or other document

in the custody of a public oliicer;
4. When the.original has been recorded, and a certified copy of the record is made evidence by this
Code or by statute;

5. When the original consists of numerous accounts I
or other documents, which cannot be examined in
Court without great loss of time, and the evidence
sought from them is only the general result of the
whole.

In the cases mentioned in Subdivisions 3 and 4, a
copy of the original must be produced; in those mentioned in Subdivisions 1 and 2, either a copy or oral
evidence of the contents.

§ 1856. VVhen the terms of an agreement have been
reduced to Writing by the parties, it is to be considered as containing all those terms, and thereforee there
can be between the parties and their representatives,
or successors in interest, no evidence of the terms of
the agreement other than the contents of the writing,
except in the following cases:

1. Where a mistake or imperfection of the writing
is put in issue by the pleadings;

2. Where the validity of the agreement is the fact
in dispute. /

But this section does not exclude other evidence
of the circumstances under 'which the agreement
was made or to which it relates, as defined in Section 1860, or to explain an extrinsic ambiguity, or
to establish illegality or fraud. The ‘term agreement
includes deeds and wills, as well as contracts between
parties.

§ 1857. The language of a writing is to be interpreted according to the meaning it bears in the place
of its execution, unless the parties have reference to a
different place.

§ 1858. In the construction of a statute or instrument, the office of the Judge is simply to ascertain
and declare what is in terms or in substance contained
therein, not to insert what has been omitted, or to omit

what has been inserted; and where there are several
provisions or particulars, such a construction is, if possible, to be adopted as will give effect to all.

§ 1859. In the construction of a statute the intention of the Legislature, and in the construction of the
instrument the intention of the parties, is to be pursued, if possible; and when a general and particular
provision are inconsistent, the latter is paramount to
the former. So a particular intent will control a general one that is inconsistent with it.

§ 1860. For the proper construction of an instrument, the circumstances under which it was made,
including the situation of the subject of the instrument, and of the parties to it, may also be shown, so
that the Judge be placed in the position of those
Whose language he is to interpret. 1861. The terms of a Writing, are presumed to
have been used in their primary and general acceptation, but evidence is nevertheless admissible that they
have a local, technical,,or otherwise peculiar signification, and were so used and understood in the particular instance, in which case the agreement must be construed accordingly.

§ 1862. When an instrument consists partly of written Words and partly of a printed form, and the two
are inconsistent, the former controls the latter.

§ 1863. When the characters in which an instrument is Written are difiicult to be deciphered, or the
language of the instrument is not understood by the
Court, the evidence of persons skilled in deciphering
the characters, or who understand the language, is
admissible to declare the characters or the meaning of

the language.

§ 1864. When the terms of an agreement have been
intended in a different sense by the different parties to
it, that sense is to prevail against either party in which
be supposed the other understood it, and when different constructions of a provision are otherwise equally
proper, that is to be taken which is most favorable to
the party in whose favor the provision was made.

§ 1865. A written notice, as Well as every other
writing, is to be construed according to the ordinary
acceptation of its terms. Thus a notice to the drawers
or indorsers of a bill of exchange or promissory note,
that it has been protested for Want of acceptance or
payment, must be held to import that the same has
been duly presented for acceptance or payment and
the same refused, and that the holder looks for payment to the person to Whom the notice is given.

§ 1866. When a statute or instrument is equally
susceptible of two interpretations, one in favor of
natural right, and the other against it, the former is
to be adopted.

§ 1867. None but a material allegation need be
proved.

§ 1868. Evidence must correspond with the substance of the material allegations, and be relevant to
the question in dispute. Collateral questions must
thereforee be avoided. It is, hovvever, Within the discretion of the Court to permit inquiry into a collateral
fact, when such fact is directly connected with the
question in dispute, and is essential to its proper
determination, or when it aifects the credibility of a
witness.

§ 1869. Each party must prove his own afiirmative
allegations. Evidence need not be given in support of

a negative allegation, except when such negative allegation is an essential part of the statement of the
right or title on which the cause of action or defense
is founded, nor even in such case when the allegation
is a denial of the existence of a document, the custody of which belongs to the opposite party.

§ 1870. In conformity with the preceding provisions,
evidence may be given upon a trial of the following
facts:

1. The precise fact in dispute;

2._The act, declaration, or omission of a party, as
evidence against such party;

3. An act or declaration of another, in the presence
and within the observation of a party, and his conduct
in relation thereto;

4. The act or declaration, verbal or written, of a
deceased person in respect to the relationship, birth,
marriage, or death of any person related by blood or
marriage to such deceased person; the act or declaration of a deceased person done or made against his
interest in respect to his real property; and also in
criminal actions, the act or declaration of a dying person, made under a sense of impending death, respecting the cause of his death;

5. After proof of a partnership or agency, the act
or declaration of a partner or agent of the party, within
the scope of the partnership or agency, and during its
existence. The sanfe rule applies to the act or declarar
tion of a joint owner, joint debtor, or other person
jointly interested with the party;

6. After proof of a conspiracy. the act or declara—
tion of a conspirator against his co-conspirator, and
relating to the conspiracy;

7. The act, declaration, or omission forming part of
a transaction, as explained in Section 1850;

8. Tllotestimony of a witness deceased, or out of

the jurisdiction, or unable to testify, given in a former
action between the same parties, relating to the same
matter;

9. The opinion of a witness respecting the identity
or handwriting of a person, when he has knowledge
of the person or handwriting; his opinion on a question of science, art, or trade, when he is skilled therein;

10. The opinion of a subscribing witness to a writing,
the validity of which is in dispute, respecting the
mental sanity of the signer; and the opinion of an
intimate acquaintance respecting the mental sanity of
a person, the reason for the opinion being given;

11. Common reputation existing previous to the controversy, respecting facts of a public or general interest
more than thirty years old, and in cases of pedigree
and boundary;

12. Usage, to explain the true character of an act,
contract, or instrument, where such true character is
not otherwise plain; but usage is never admissible,
except as an instrument of interpretation;

13. Monuments and inscriptions in public places, as
evidence of common reputation; and entries in family
bibles, or other family books or charts; engravings on
rings, family portraits, and the like, as evidence of
pedigree;

14. The contents of a writing, when oral evidence
thereof is admissible;

15. Any other facts from which the facts in issue
are presumed or are logically inferable;

16. Such facts as serve to show the credibility of a
witness, as explained in Section 1847.

§ 1875. Courts take judicial notice of the following
facts: . ‘

1. The true signification of all English Words and
phrases, and of all legal expressions;

2. Whatever is established by law;

3. Public and private official acts of the legislative,
executive, and judicial departments of this State and
of the United States; I

4. ‘The seals of all the Courts of this State and of
the United States;

5. The accession to office and the oiiicial signatures
and seals of office of the principal officers of Government in the legislative, executive, and judicial departments of this State and of the United States;

6. The existence, title, national iiag, and seal of every
State or sovereign recognized by the executive power
of the United States;

7. The seals of Courts of admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction, and of Notaries Public;

8. The laws of nature, the measure of time, and the
geographical divisions and political history of the world.

In all these cases the Court may resort for its aid to
appropriate books or documents of reference.

§ 1878. A witness is a person whose declaration
under oath is received as evidence for any purpose,
whether such declaration be made on oral examination, or by deposition or aiiidavit.

§ 1879. All persons, without exception,
otherwise than is speciiied in the next two sections,
who, having organs of sense, can perceive, and, perceiving, can make known their perceptions to others,
may be witnesses.. Therefore, neither parties nor
other persons who have an interest in the event of an
action or proceeding are excluded; nor those who have
been convicted of crime; nor persons on account of
their opinions on matters of religious belief; although,
in every case the credibility of the witness may be
drawn in question, as provided in Section 1847.

§ 1880. The following persons cannot be
witnesses?

1. Those who are of unsound mind at the time of
their production for examination;

2. Children under ten years of age, who appear incapable of receiving just impressions of the facts respecting which they are examined, or of relating them
truly.

§ 1881. There are particular relations in which it is the policy of the law
to encourage confidence and to preserve it inviolate;
thereforee, a person cannot be examined as a witness in
the following cases:

1. A husband cannot be examined for or against his
wife, without her consent, nor a wife for or against her
husband, without his consent; nor can either, during
the marriage or afterwards, be, without the consent
of the other, examined as to any communication made
by one to the other during the marriage; but this
exception does not apply to a civil action or proceeding by one against the other, nor to a criminal action
or proceeding for a crime committed by one against
the other;

2. An attorney cannot, without the’ consent of his
client, be examined as to any communication made by
the client to him, or his advice given thereon in the
course of professional employment;

3. A clergyman or priest cannot, without the
consent of the person making the confession, be examined as to any confession made to him in his
professional character in the course of discipline
enjoined by the Church to which he belongs;

4. A licensed physician or surgeon cannot, without
the consent of‘ his patient, be examined in a civil
action as to any information acquired in attending the
patient which was necessary to enable him to prescribe or act for the patient;

5. A public officer cannot be examined as to communications made to him in official confidence, when
the public interests would suffer by the disclosure.

§ 1882. If a person offer himself as a Witness, that
-is to be deemed a consent to the examination, also, of
a Wife, husband, attorney, clergyman, physician, or
surgeon on the same subject, within the meaning of
the first four subdivisions of the last section.

§ 1883. The Judge himself, or any juror,
may be called as a witness by either party; but in
such case it is in the discretion of the Court or Judge
to order the trial to be postponed or suspended, and
to take place before another Judge or jury. '

§ 1884. When a witness does not understand and speak the English language, an interpreter
must be sworn to interpret for him. Any person, a
resident of the proper county, may be summoned by
any Court or Judge to appear before such Court or
Judge to act as interpreter in any action or proceeding. The summons must be served and returned in
like manner as a subpoena. Any person so summoned
who fails to attend at the time and place named in the
summons, is guilty of a contempt.

§ 1887. Writings are of two kinds:

1. Public; and,
2. Private.

§ 1888. Public writings are: p

1. The written acts or records of the acts of the
sovereign authority, of official bodies and tribunals,
and of public officers, legislative, judicial, and executive, whether of this State, of the United States, of a
sister State, or of a foreign country;

2. Public records, kept in this State, of private
writings.

§ 1889. All other Writings are private.


§ 1892. Every citizen has a right to inspect and
take a copy of any public Writing of this State, except
as otherwise expressly provided by statute.

§ 1893. Every public oiiicer having the custody of
a public Writing, which a citizen has a right to inspect,
is bound to give him, on demand, a certified copy of
it, on payment of the legal fees therefore, and such copy
is primary as evidence of the original writing.

§ 894. Public writings are divided into four classes:
1. Laws;

2. Judicial records;

3. Other otlicial documents;

4. ‘Public records, kept in this State, of private

Writings.

§ 895. Laws, whether organic or ordinary, are either
Written or unwritten.

§ 1896. A Written law is that which is promulgated
in writing, and of which a record is in existence.

§ 1897. The organic law is the Constitution of Government, and is altogether written. Other written
laws are denominated statutes. The written law of
this State is thereforee contained in its Constitution and
statutes, and in the Constitution and statutes of the
United States.

§ 1898. Statutes are public or private. A private
statute is one which concerns only certain designated
individuals, and affects only their private rights. All
other statutes are public, in which are included statutes
creating or affecting corporations.

§ 1899. Unwritten law is the law not promulgated
and recorded, as mentioned in' Section 1896, but which
is, nevertheless, observed and administered in the
Courts of the country. It has no certain repository,
but is collected from the reports of the decisions of the
Courts, and the treatises of learned men.

§ 1900. Books printed or published under the authority of a sister State or foreign country,
and purporting to contain the statutes, code, or other
written law of such State or country, or proved to be
commonly admitted in the tribunals of such State or
country as evidence of the written law thereof, are
admissible in this State as evidence of such law.

§ 1901. The public seal of the State or conntr_v,
affixed to a copy of the Written law or other public
Writing, is also admissible as evidence of such law or
Writing.

§ 1902. The oral testimony of witnesses skilled
therein is admissible as evidence of the unwritten law
of a sister State or foreign country, as are also printed
and published books of reports of decisions of the
Courts of such State or country, or proved to be commonly admitted in such Courts.

§ 903. The recitals in a public statute are conclusive
evidence of the facts recited for the purpose of carrying it into effect, but no further. The recitals in a
private statute are’ conclusive evidence between parties
who claim under its provisions, but no further.

§ 1904. A judicial record is the record or oiiicial
entry of the proceedings in a Court of justice, or of the
official act of a judicial officer, in an action or special
proceeding.

§ 1905. A judicial record of this
State, or of the United States, may be proved by the
production of the original, or by a copy thereof, certified by the Clerk or other person having the legal custody thereof. That of a sister State may be proved
by the attestation of the Clerk and the seal of the
Court annexed, if there be a Clerk and seal, together
with a certificate of the Chief Judge or presiding
magistrate, that the attestation is in due form.

§ 1906. A judicial record of a foreign
country may be proved by the attestation of the Clerk,
with the seal of the Court annexed, if there be a Clerk
and seal, or of the legal keeper of the record, with the
seal of his office annexed, if there be a seal, together
with a certificate of the Chief Judge or presiding
magistrate that the person making the attestation is
the Clerk of the Court or the legal keeper of the
record, and in either case, that the signature of such
person is genuine. The signature of the Chief Judge,
or presiding magistrate, must be authenticated according to the laws of the country, by the Minister of Jus‘tice, or the head of the department under whose

authority the record is kept.

§ 1907. A copy of the judicial record of
a. foreign country is also admissible in evidence, upon
proof :

1. That the copy offered has been compared by the
Witness with the original, and is an exact transcript of
the whole of it;

2. That such original was in the custody of the Clerk
of the Court or other legal keeper of the same; and,

3. That the copy is duly attested by a seal which is
proved to be the seal of the Court Where the record
remains, if it be the record of a Court; or if there be
no such seal, or if it be not a record of a Court, by the
signature of the legal keeper of the original.

§ 1908. The effect of a judgment or dual order in
an action or special proceeding before a Court or
Judge of this State, or of the United States, having
jurisdiction to pronounce the judgment or order, is as
follows:

1. In case of a judgment or order against a specinc
thing, or in respect to the probate of a will, or the
administration of the estate of a decedent, or in repect to the personal, political, or legal condition or
relation of a particular person, the judgment or order
is conclusive upon the title to the thing, the will, or
administration, or the condition or relation of the person;

2. In other cases, the judgment or order is, in respect
to the matter directly adjudged, conclusive between
the parties and their successors in interest by title subsequent to the commencement of the action or special
proceeding, litigating for the same thing under the
same title and in the same capacity.

§ 1909. Other judicial orders of a Court or Judge
of this State, or of the United States, create a disputable presumption, according to the matter directly
determined, between the same parties and their representatives and successors in interest by title subsequent to the commencement of the action or special

proceeding, litigating for the-same thing under the
same title and in the same capacity.

§ 1910. The parties are deemed to be the same
when those between whom the evidence is offered
were on opposite sides in the former case, and a judgment or other determination could in that case have
been made between them alone, though other parties
were joined with bothior either.

§ 1911. That only is deemed to have been adjudged
in a former judgment which appears upon its face to
have been so adjudged, or which was actually and
necessarily included therein or necessary thereto.

§ 912. Whexiever, pursuant to the last four sections,
a party is bound by a record, and such party stands in
the relation of a surety for another, the latter is also
bound from the time that he has notice of the action
or proceeding, and an opportunity at the surety’s request to join in the defense.

§ 1913. The effect of a judicial record of a sister
State is the same in this State as in the State where it
was made, except that it can only be enforced here by
an action or special proceeding, and except, also, that
the authority of a guardian or committee, or of an executor or administrator, does not extend beyond the
jurisdiction of the Government under which he was
invested with his authority.

§ 1914. The effect of the judicial record of a Court
of admiralty of a foreign country is the same as if it
were the record of a Court of admiralty of the United

States.

§ 1915. The effect of the judgment of any other

tribunal of a foreign country having jurisdiction to .

pronounce the judgment, is as follows:

\

1. In case of a judgment against a specific thing,
the judgment is conclusive upon the title to the thing;
2. In case of a judgment against a person, the judgment is presumptive evidence of a right as between

the parties and their successors in interest by a sub-sequent title, and can only be repelled by evidence of
a want of jurisdiction, want of notice to the party,
collusion, fraud, or clear mistake of law or fact.

§ 1916. Any judicial record may be impeached by
evidence of a want of jurisdiction in the Court or
judicial officer, of collusion between the parties, or of
fraud in the party offering the record, in respect to the
proceedings.

§ 1917. The jurisdiction sufficient to sustain a record
is jurisdiction over the cause, over the parties, and
over the thing, when a specific thing is the subject of
the judgment.

§ 1918. Other ofiicial documents may be proved, as
follows:

1. Acts of the Executive of this State, by the records
of the State Department of the State, and of the United
States, by the records of the State Department of the
United States, certified by the heads of those departments respectively. They may also be proved by
public documents printed by order of the Legislature
or Congress, or either house thereof;

2. The proceedings of the Legislature of this State
or of Congress, by the journals of those bodies respectively, or either House thereof, or by published stat»

utes or resolutions, or by copies certined. by the Clerk
or printed by their order;
3. The acts of the Executive or the proceedings of
the Legislature of a sister State, in the same manner;
4. The acts of the Executive or the proceedings of
the Legislature of a foreign country, by journals pubD

lished by their authority, or commonly received in that
country as such, or by a copy certified under the seal
of the country or sovereign, or by a recognition thereof
in some public act of the Executive of the United
States; A

5. Acts of a municipal corporation of this State, or
of a Board or department thereof, by a copy, certified
by the legal keeper thereof, or by a printed book published by the authority of such corporation;

6. Documents of any other class in this State, by
the original, or by a copy certified by the legal keeper
thereof;

7. Documents of any other class in a sister State, by
the original, or by a copy certified by the legal keeper
thereof, together with the certificate of the Secretary»
of State, Judge of the Supreme, Superior, or County
Court, or Mayor of a city of such State, that the copy
is duly certified by the officer having the legal custody
of the original;

8. Documents of any other class in a foreign country,
by the original, or by a copy certified by the legal
keeper thereof, with a certificate, under seal, of the
country or sovereign, that the document is a valid and
subsisting document of such country, and that the copy
is duly certified by the officer having the legal custody
of the original.

§ 1919. A public record of a priyate writing may
be proved by the original record, or by a copy thereof,
certified by the legal keeper of the record.

§ 1920. Entries in public or other official books or
records, made in the performance of his duty by a
public officer of this State, or by another person in the
performance of a duty specially enjoined by law, are
primary evidence of the facts stated therein.

§ 1921. A transcript from the record or docket of a
Justice of the Peace of a sister State, of a judgment
rendered by him, of the proceedings in the action
before the judgment, of the execution and return, if
any, subscribed by the Justice and verified in the
manner prescribed in the next section, is admissible
evidence of the facts stated therein.

§ 1922. There must be attached to the
transcript a certificate of the Justice that the transcript is in all respects correct, and that he had juris—
diction of the action, and also a further certificate of
the Clerk or prothonotary of the county in which the
Justice resided at the time of rendering the judgment, under the seal of the county, or the seal of the
Court of Common Pleas or County Court thereof, certifying that the person subscribing the transcript was,
at the date of the judgment, a Justice of the Peace
in the county, and that the signature is genuine. Such
judgment, proceedings, and jurisdiction may also be
proved by the Justice himself, on the production of

his docket, or by a copy of the judgment, and his oral
examination as a witness.

§ 1923. Whenever a copy of a writing is certified

for the purpose of evidence, the certificate must state

that the copy has been compared by the certifying
officer with the original, and is a correct transcript
therefrom, and of the Whole of such original or of a
specified part thereof. The ofiicial seal, if there be
any, of the certifying officer, must also be affixed to
the certificate, except when the certificate of a Clerk
of a Court is used in the same Court or before an
officer thereof. '

§ 1924. The provisions of the preceding sections of
this Article applicable to the public writings of a

a sister State are equally applicable to the public

Writings of a Territory of the United States.

§ 1925. A certificate of purchase, or of location, of
any lands in this State, issued or made in pursuance
of any law of the United States, or of this State, is
primary evidence that the holder or assignee of such
certificate is the owner of the land described therein;
but this evidence may be overcome by proof that, at
the time of the location, or time of filing a preéniption
claim on which the certificate may have been issued,
the land was in the adverse possession of the adverse
party, or those under whom he claims, or that the
adverse party is holding the land for mining purposes.

§ 1926. An entry made by an officer, or Board of
officers, or under the direction and in the presence of
either, in the course of ofhcial duty, is primary
evidence of the facts stated in such entry.


§ 1929. Private writings are either:
1. Sealed; or,
2. Unsealed.

§ 1930. A seal is a particular sign, made to attest,
in the most formal manner, the execution of an instrument.

§ 1931. A public seal in this State is a stamp or
impression made upon wax, wafer, paper, or any other
substance upon which a visible and permanent impression can be made. A private seal may be in the same
manner, or it may be made without an impression,
by a wafer or wax attached to the instrument, or by
a paper attached to it by an adhesive substance. A
scroll or other sign, made in a sister State or foreign
country, and there recognized as a seal, must be so
regarded in this State.

§ 1932. The seal affixed to a writing is presumptive
evidence of a consideration. In other respects there
is no difference between sealed and unsealed writings.
A writing under seal may thereforee be changed or
altogether discharged by a Writing not under seal, or
by an oral agreement otherwise valid.

§ 1933. The execution of an instrument is the subscribing and delivering it, with or without affixing a
seal.

§ 1934. An agreement, in writing, without a seal,
for the compromise or settlement of a debt, is as obligatory as if a seal were atfixed.

§ 1935. A subscribing witness. is one who sees a
Writing executed or hears it acknowledged, and at the

request of the party thereupon signs his name as a
witness.

§ 1936. Historical works, books of science or art,
and published maps or charts, when made by persons
indifferent between the parties, are primary evidence
of facts of general notoriety and interest. 1

§ 1937. The original writing must be produced and
proved, except as provided in Sections 1855 and 1919.
If it has been lost,‘ proof of the loss must first be made
before evidence can be given of its contents. Upon
such proof being made, together with proof of the due
execution of the writing, its contents may be proved
by a copy, or by a recital of its contents in some
authentic document, or by the recollection of a witness, as provided in Section 1855.

§ 1938. If the writing be in the custody of the
adverse party, he must first have reasonable notice to
produce it. If he then fail to do so, the contents of
the writing may be proved as in case of its loss. But
the notice to produce it is not necessary where the
writing is itself a notice, or where it has been wrongfully obtained or withheld by the adverse party.

§ 1939. Though awriting called for by one party is
produced by the other, and is thereupon inspected by
the party calling for it, he is not obliged to produce it
as evidence in the case.

§ 1940. If there be a subscribing witness to a writing produced in evidence its execution must be proved
by him, if he is within reach of a subpoena, and can
be produced and can testify. If there be more than
one subscribing witness the evidence of one is suiiicient. If the subscribing witnesses cannot be produced, the execution may be proved by the party who
executed it, or by proof of his handwriting.

§ 1941. If the subscribing witness denies or does
not recollect the execution of the writing, its execution may still be proved by other evidence.

§ 1942. “There, however, evidence is given that
the party against whom the writing is offered has at
any time admitted its execution no other evidence of
the execution need be given, when the instrument is
one mentioned in Section 1945, or one produced from
the custody of the adverse party, and has been acted
upon by him as genuine. .

§ 1943. The handwriting of a person may be proved
by any one who believes it to be his, and who has seen
him write, or has seen writings purporting to be his,
upon which he has acted or been charged, and who
has thus acquired a knowledge of his handwriting.

§ 1944. Evidence respecting the handwriting may
also be given by a comparison, made by the witness
or the jury, with writings admitted or treated as genuine by the party against whom the evidence is offered.

§ 1945. Where a writing is more than thirty years
old, the comparisons may be made with writings purporting to be genuine, and generally respected and
acted upon as such, by persons having an interest in
knowing the fact.

§ 1946. The entries and other writings of a decedent, made at or near the time of the transaction, and
in a position to know the facts stated therein, may be
read as primary evidence of the facts stated therein,
in the following cases:

1. When the entry was made against the interest
of the person making it;

2. VVhen it was made in a professional capacity
and in the ordinary course of professional conduct;

3. VVhen it was made in the performance of a duty
specially enjoined by law.

§ 1947. When an entry is repeated in the regular
course of business, one being copied from another at
or near the time of the transaction, all the entries are
equally regarded as originals.

§ 1948. Every private writing, except last wills and
testaments, may be acknowledged or proved and certified in the manner provided for the acknowledgment
or proof of conveyances of real property, and the certificate of such acknowledgment or proof is primary
evidence of the execution of the writing, in the same
manner as if it were a conveyance of real property.

§ 1949. Every County Recorder must receive and
file in his office any private writing delivered to him
for that purpose, and give a written receipt therefore.
Such writing must be properly indorsed so as to indicate its general nature, the names of the parties thereto,
and the time of filing, and must be deposited and kept
in such office separate from other papers. It is then
subject to the examination of any person, but cannot
be withdrawn, except temporarily, upon the written
order of the depositor or his legal representatives, or
on the order of a Court of record, for the purpose of
being read in evidence therein.

§ 950. The record of a conveyance of real property,
or other record, a transcript of which is admissible in
evidence, must not be removed from the oilice where
it is kept, except upon the order of a Court, or when
temporarily removed by the Clerk having it in custody
to the Court of which he is Clerk, or to Courts held in

the city or town where his office is situated.


§ 1954. Whenever an object, cognizable by’ the
senses, has such a relation to the fact in dispute as
to afford reasonable grounds of belief respecting it,
or to make an item in the sum of the evidence, such
object may be exhibited to the jury, or its existence,
situation, and character may be proved by witnesses.
The admission of such evidence must be regulated by
the sound discretion of the Court.

§ 1957. Indirect evidence is of two kinds:
1. Inferences; and,
2. Presumptions.

§ 1958. An inference is a deduction which the reason
of the jury makes from the facts proved, without an
express direction of*1aw to that effect.

§ 1959. A presumption is a deduction which the
law expressly directs to be made from particular facts.

§ 1960. An inference must be founded:
1. On a fact legally proved; and, s

2. On such a deduction from that fact as is warranted by a consideration of the usual propensities or
passions of men, the particular propensities or passions of the person whose act is in question, the course
of business, or the course of nature.

§ 1961. A presumption (unless declared by law to
be conclusive) may be controverted by other evidence,
direct or indirect; but unless so controverted the jury
are bound to find according to the presumption.

§ 1962. The following presnmptions, and no others,
are deemed conclusive:

1. A malicious and guilty intent, from the deliberate commission of an unlawful act, for the purpose of
injuring another;

2. The truth of the facts recited, from the recital in
a Written instrument between the parties thereto, or
their successors in interest by a subsequent title; but
this rule does not apply to the recital of a consideration;

3. VVhenever a party has, by his own declaration,
act, or omission, intentionally and deliberately led
another to believe a particular thing true, and -to act
upon such belief, he cannot, in any litigation arising
out of such declaration, act, or omission, be permitted
to falsify it;

4. A tenant is not permitted to deny the title of his
landlord at the time of the commencement of the
relation; ’ ,

5. The issue of a Wife cohabiting with her husband,
who is not impotent, is indisputably presumed to be
legitimate;

6. The judgment or order of a Court, when declared
by this Code to be conclusive; but such judgment or
order must be alleged in the pleadings if there be an
opportunity to do so; if there be no such opportunity,
the judgment or order may be used as evidence;

7. Any other presumption which, by statute, is
expressly made conclusive.

§ 1963. All other presumptions are satisfactory, if
uncontradicted. They are denominated disputafile presumptions, and may be controverted by other evidence.
The following are of that kind:

1. That a person is innocent of crime or Wrong;

2. That an unlawful act was done with an unlawful
intent;

3. That a person intends the ordinary consequence
of his voluntary act;

4. That a person takes ordinary care of his own
concerns;

5. That evidence willfully suppressed would be adverse if produced;

6. That higher evidence would be adverse from
inferior being produced;

7. That money paid by one to another was due to
the latter;

8. That a thing delivered by one to another belonged
to the latter;

9. That an obligation delivered up to the debtor has
been paid;

10. That former rent or installments have been paid
when a receipt for later is produced;

11. That things which a person possesses are owned
by him;

12. That a person is the owner of property from
exercising acts of ownership over it, or from common
reputation of his ownership;

13. That a person in possession of an order on himself for the payment of money, or the delivery of a
thing, has paid the money or delivered the thing
accordingly;

14. That a person acting in a public office was regularly appointed to it;

15. That official duty has been regularly performed;

16. That a Court or Judge, acting as such, whether
in this State or any other State or country, was acting
in the lawful exercise of his jurisdiction;

17. That a judicial record, when not conclusive, does
still correctly determine or set forth the rights of the
parties;

18. That all matters Within an issue were laid before
the jury and passed upon by them; and in like manner, that all matters Within a submission to arbitration
were laid before the arbitrators and passed upon by
them;

19. That private transactions have been fair and

regular;
20. That the ordinary course of business has been
followed; ‘ , .

21. That a promissory note or bill of exchange was
given or indorsed for a sufficient consideration;

22. That an indorsement of a negotiable promissory
note or bill of exchange was made at the°time and
place of making the note or bill;

23. That a Writing is truly dated;

24. That a letter duly directed and mailed Was received in the regular course of the mail;
25. Identity of person from identity of name;

26. That a person not heard from in seven years is
dead;

27. That acquiescence followed from a belief that
the thing acquiesced in was conformable to the right
or fact;

28. That things have happened according to the
ordinary course of nature and the ordinary habits of
life;

29. That persons acting as copartners have entered
into a contract of copartnership;

30. That a man and Woman deporting themselves

as husband and wife have entered into a lawful contract of marriage; _

31. That a child born in lawful wedlock, there being
no divorce from bed and board, is legitimate;

32. That a thing once proved to exist continues as
long as is usual with things of that nature;

33. That the law has been obeyed;

34. That a document or writing more than thirty
years old is genuine, when the same has been since
generally acted upon as genuine, by persons having
an interest in the question, and its custody has been
satisfactorily explained; 3

35. That a printed and published book, purporting
to be printed or published by public authority, was so
printed or published;

36. That a printed and published book, purporting
to contain reports of cases adjudged in the tribunals
of the State or country where the book is published,
contains correct reports of such cases;

37. That a trustee or other person, whose duty it
was to convey real property to a particular person, has
actually conveyed to him, when such presumption is
necessary to perfect the title of such person or his
successor in interest; ,

38. The uninterrupted use by the public of land
for a burial ground, for five years, with the consent of
the owner, and without a reservation of his rights, is
presumptive evidence of his intention to dedicate it
to the public for that purpose;

39. That there was a good and sufficient consideration for a written contract;

40. When two persons perish in the same calamity,
such as a wreck, a battle, or a conflagration, and it is
not shown who died first, and there are no particular
circumstances from which it can be inferred, survivor. ship is presumed from the probabilities resulting from

the strength, age, and sex, according to the following
rules:

Fz'rst—If both of those who have .perished were
under the age of fifteen years, the older is presumed
to have survived; .

Second—If both were above the age of sixty, the
younger is presumed to have survived;

Thz'rd—If one be under iifteen and the other above
sixty, the former is presumed to have survived;

Four-th—If both be over fifteen and under sixty,
and the sexes be different, the male is presumed to
have survived; if the sexes be the same, then the
older; ~
.F{fth—If one be under fifteen, or over sixty, and
the other between those ages, the latter is presumed
to have survived. T

§ 1967. The law makes certain evidence necessary
to the validity of particular acts, or the proof of particular facts.

§ 1968. Perjury and treason must be proved by testimony of more than one witness. Treason by the
testimony of two witnesses to the same overt act; and
perjury by the testimony of two witnesses, or one witness and corroborating circumstances.

§ 1969. A last will and testament, except when
made by a soldier in actual military service, or by a
mariner at sea, is invalid, unless it be in writing and
executed with such formalities as are required by law.
Evidence, thereforee, of such will cannot be received
without the written instrument itself, or secondary
evidence of its contents in the cases prescribed by
law.

§ 1970. A written will cannot be revoked or altered
otherwise than by another written will or another writing of the testator, declaring such revocation or alteration, and executed with the same formalities required
by law for the will itself; or unless the will be burned,
torn, canceled, obliterated, or destroyed, with the intent and for the purpose of revoking the same, by the
testator himself, or by another person in his presence,
by his direction and consent; and when so done by
another person, the direction and consent of the testator and the fact of such injury or destruction must be
proved by at least two witnesses.

§ 1971. No estate or interest in real property, other
than for leases for a term not exceeding one year, nor
any trust or power over or concerning it, or in any
manner relating’ thereto, can be created, granted,
assigned, surrendered, or declared, otherwise than by
operation of law, or a conveyance or other instrument
in writing, subscribed by the party creating, granting,
assigning, surrendering, or declaring the same, or by
his lawful agent thereunto authorized by writing.

§ 972. The preceding section must not be construed

to affect’ the power of a testator in the disposition of

his real property by a last will and testament, nor to
prevent any trust from arising or being extinguished
by. implication or operation of law,\nor to abridge the
power of any Court to compel the specific performance
of an agreement, in case of part performance thereof.

§ 1973. In the following cases the agreement is invalid, unless the same or some note or memorandum
thereof be in writing and subscribed by the party
charged, or by his agent. Evidence, thereforee, of the
agreement cannot be received Without the Writing or
secondary evidence of its contents:

1. An agreemen that by its terms is not to be performed Within a year from the making thereof;

2. A special promise to answer for the debt, default,
or miscarriage of another, except in the cases provided
for in Section 27 94 of THE CIVIL CODE;

3. An agreement made upon consideration of marriage, other than a mutual promise to marry;

4. An agreement for the sale of goods, chattels, or
things in action, at a price not less than two hundred
dollars, unless the buyer accept and receive part of such
goods and chattels, or the evidences, or some of them,
of such things in action, or pay at the time some part

- of the purchase money; but when a sale is made by

auction, an entry by the auctioneer in his sale book, at
the time of the sale, of the kind of property sold, the
terms of sale, the price and the names of the purchaser
and person on whose account the sale is made, is.a suilicient memorandum;

5. An agreement for the leasing for a longer period
than one year, or for the sale of real property or of an
interest therein; and such agreement, if made by an
agent of the party sought to be charged, is invalid,
unless the authority of the agent be in writing, subscribed by the party sought to be charged.

§ 1974. N o evidence is admissible to charge a person upon a representation as to the credit of a third
person, unless such representation, or some memorandum thereof, be in writing, and either subscribed by
or in the handwriting of the party to be charged.

§ 1978. No evidence is by law made conclusive or
unanswerable, unless so declared by this Code.

§ 1981. The party holding the affirmative of the
issue must produce the evidence to prove it; thereforee, the burden of proof lies on the party who would
be defeated if no evidence were given on either side.

§ 1982. The party producing a writing as genuine
which has been altered, or appears to have been
altered, after its execution, in a part material to the
question in dispute, must account for the appearance
or alteration. He may show that the alteration was
made by another, without his concurrence, or was
made with the consent of the parties affected by it,
or otherwise properly or innocently made, or that the
alteration did not change the meaning or language of

the instrument. If he do that, he may give the writ- .
ing in evidence, but not otherwise.

§ 1985. The process by which the attendance of a
witness is required is a subpoena.’ It is a writ or order
directed to a person and requiring his attendance at a
particular time and place to testify as a witness. It
may also require him to bring with him any books,
documents, or other things under his control which he
is bound by law to produce in evidence.

§ 1986. The subpoena is issued as follows:

1. To require attendance before a Court, or at the
trial of an issue therein, it is issued under the seal of
the Court before which the attendance is required, or
in which the issue is pending; '

2. To require attendance out of the Court, before a
Judge, Justice, or.other oiiicer authorized to administer oaths or take testimony in any matter under
the laws of this State, it is issued by the Judge, Justice, or any other officer before whom the attendance
is required;

3. To require attendance before a Commissioner
appointed to take testimony by a Court of a foreign
country, or of the United States, or of any other State
in the United States, or of any other district or county
within this State, or before any officer or officers empowered by the laws of the United States to take testimony, it may be issued by any Judge or Justice of
the Peace in places within their respective jurisdiction, with like power to enforce attendance; and, upon
certificate of contumacy to said Court, to punish contempt of their process, as such Judge or Justice could
exercise if the subpoena directed the attendance of
the witness before their Courts in a matter pending
therein.

§ 1987. The service of a subpoena is made

' by showing the original and delivering a copy, or a

ticket containing its substance, to the witness personally, giving or offering to him at the same time, if
demandedyby him, the fees to which he is entitled for
travel to and from the place designated, and one day’s
attendance there. The service must be made so as to
allow the witness a reasonable time for preparation
and travel to the place of attendance. Such service
may be made by any person. /

§ 1988. If a witness is concealed in a
building or vessel, so as to prevent the service of a
subpoena upon him, any Court or Judge, or any oiiicer
issuing the subpoena, may, upon proof by affidavit of
the concealment, and of the materiality of the witness,
make an order that the Sheriff of the county serve the
subpoena; and the Sheriff must serve it accordingly,
and for that purpose may break into the building or
vessel where the witness is concealed.

§ 1989. A witness is not obliged to attend
as a witness before any Court, Judge, Justice, or any

other officer, out of the county’ in which he resides,
unless the distance be less than thirty miles from his
place of residence to the place of trial.

§ 1990. A person present in Court, or
before a judicial officer, may be required to testify in
the same manner as if he were in attendance upon a
subpoena issued by such Court or officerl

§ 1991. Disobedience to a subpoena, or a
refusal to be sworn, or to answer as a witness, or to
subscribe an affidavit or deposition when required,
may be punished as a contempt by the Court or officer issuing the subpoena or requiring the witness to be
sworn; and if the witness be a party, his complaint or
answer may be stricken out.

§ 1992. A witness disobeying a.subpoena
also forfeits to the party aggrieved the sum of one
hundred dollars, and all damages which he may sustain by the failure of the witness to attend, which
forfeiture and damages may be recovered ina civil
action. ‘

§ 1993. In case of failure of a witness to
attend, the Court or officer issuing the su bpcena, upon
proof of the service thereof, and of the failure of the
witness, may issue a warrant to the Sheriff of the
county to arrest the witness and bring him before the
Court or officer where his attendance was required.

§ 1994. Every warrant of commitment, issued by a
Court or officer pursuant to this Chapter, must specify
therein, particularly, the cause of the commitment, and
if it be for refusing to answer a question, such question
must be stated in the warrant. And every warrant to
arrest or commit a witness, pursuant to this Chapter,
must be directed to the Sheriff of the county where

the witness may be, and must be executed by him in
the same manner as process issued by the District
Court.

§ 1995. If the witness be a prisoner, confined in a jail or prison within this State, an order for
his examination in the prison upon deposition, or for
his temporary removal and production before a Court
or officer for the purpose of being orally examined,
may be made as follows:

1. By the Court itself in which the action or special
proceeding is pending, unless it be a J ustice’s Court;

2. By a Justice of the Supreme Court, Judge of the
District Court, or County Judge of the cotmty where
the action or proceeding is pending, if pending before
a J ustice’s Court or before a Judge or other person out
of Court.

§ 1996. Such order can only be made on
the motion of a party, upon affidavit showing the nature of the action or proceeding, the testimony expected
from the witness, and its materiality.

§ 1997. If the witness be imprisoned in

' the county where the action or proceeding is pending,

his production may be required. In all other cases
his examination, when allowed, must be taken upon
deposition.

§ 2002. The testimony of witnesses is taken in
three modes:

1. By affidavit;
2. By deposition;
3. By oral examination.

§ 2003. An aiiidavit is a written declaration under
oath, made without notice to the adverse party.

§ 2004. A deposition is a written declaration under
oath, made upon notice to the adverse party for the
purpose of enabling him to attend and cross-examine.

§ 2005. An oral examination is an examination in
presence of the jury or tribunal which is to decide
the fact or act upon it, the testimony being heard by
the jury or tribunal from the lips of the witness.

§ 2006. Depositions must be taken in the form of
question and answer, and the Words of the Witness

must be written down, unless the parties agree to a
different mode.


§ 2009. An affidavit may be used to verify a pleading or a paper in a special proceeding, to prove the
service of a summons, notice, or other paper in an
.action or special proceeding, to obtain a provisional
remedy, the examination of ‘a Witness, or a stay of
proceedings, or upon a motion, and in any other case

expressly permitted by some other provision of this
Code.

§ 2010. Evidence of the publication of a document
or notice required by law, or by an order of a Court
or Judge, to be published in a newspaper, may be
given by the affidavit of the printer of the newspaper,
or his foreman or principal clerk, annexed to a copy of
the document or notice, specifying the times when,
and the paper in which, the publication was made.

§ 2011. If such affidavit be made in an action or
special proceeding pending in a Court, —it may be filed
with the Court or a Clerk thereof. If not so made, it
may be filed with the Clerk of the county where the
newspaper is printed. In either case the original affidavit, or a copy thereof, certified by the Court or Clerk
having it in custody, is primary evidence of the facts
stated therein.

§ 2012. An affidavit to be used before any
Court, Judge, or officer of this State, may be taken

before any Judge or Clerk of any Court, or any Jus~
‘ tice of the Peace or Notary Public in this State.

§ 2013. An affidavit taken in another State

' of the United States, to be used in this State, must be
taken before a Commissioner appointed by the Governor of this State to take affidavits and depositions in

such other State, or before any Judge of a Court of
record having a seal.

§ 2014. An affidavit taken in a foreign
country, to be used in this State, must be taken before
an Embassador, Minister, Consul, or Vice Consul of
the United States, or before any Judge of a Court of
record having a seal, in such foreign country.

§ 2015. When an affidavit is taken before
a Judge or a Court in another State, or in a foreign
country, the genuineness df the signature of the Judge,
the existence of the Court, and the fact that such
Judge is a member thereof, must be certified by the
Clerk of the Court, under the seal thereof.

§ 2019. In all cases other than those mentioned in Section 2009, Where a written declaration under oath
is used, it must be a deposition as prescribed by this

Code.

§ 2020. The testimony of a witness out of
the State may be taken by deposition, in an action,
at any time after the service of the summons or the
appearance of the defendant; and, in a special proceeding, at any time after a question of fact has arisen
therein.

§ 2021. The testimony of a Witness in this
State may be taken by deposition, in an action, at any
time after the service of the summons or the appearance of the defendant; and, in a special proceeding,
after a question of fact has arisen therein, in the following cases:

1. When the Witness is a party to the action or
proceeding, or a person for Whose immediate benefit
the action or proceeding is prosecuted or defended;

2. When the Witness resides out of the county in
which his testimony is to be used;

3. When the Witness is about to leave the county
where the action is to be tried, and will probably continue absent when the testimony is required;

4. When the Witness, otherwise liable to attend the
trial, is nevertheless too infirm to attend;

5. When the testimony is required upon a motion,
or in any other case where the oral examination of the
witness is not required.

§ 2024. The deposition of a Witness out of
this State may be taken upon commission, issued from
the Court, under the seal of the Court, upon an order
of the Judge or Court, or County Judge, on the application of either party, upon five days previous notice
to the other. It must be issued to a person agreed
upon by the parties, or, if they do not agree, to any
Judge or Justice of the Peace, or Commissioner, selected by the officer issuing it.

§ 2025. Such proper interrogatories, direct
and cross, as the respective parties may prepare to be
settled, if the parties disagree as to their form, by the
Judge or officer granting the order for the commission, at a day fixed in the\order, may be annexed to
the Commission; or, when the parties, agree to that
mode, the examination may be without written interrogatories.

§ 2026. The Commission must authorize
the Commissioner to administer an oath to the witness,
and to take his deposition in answer to the interrogatories, or, when the examination is to be Without
interrogatories, in respect to the question in dispute,
and to certify the deposition to the Court, in a sealed
enmop, directed to the Clerk or other person designa or agreed upon, and forwarded to him by mail
or other usual channel of conveyance. ‘

§ 2027. A trial or other proceeding must
not be postponed by reason of a commission not
returned, except upon evidence, satisfactory to the

Court, that the testimony of the witness is necessary,
and that proper diligence has been used to obtain it.

§ 2028. The deposition mentioned in this Article
may be used by either party on the trial or other proceeding, against any other party giving or receiving
the notice, subject to all just exceptions. ‘

§ 2031. Either party may have the deposition ‘taken of a witness in this State, in either of the
cases mentioned in Section 2021, before a Judge or
officer authorized to administer oaths, on serving upon
the adverse party previous notice of the time and
place of examination, together With a copy of an aididavit, showing that the case is Within that section.
Such notice must be at least five days, adding also one
day for every twenty-five miles of the distance of the
place of examination from the residence of the person
to whom the notice is given, unless, for a cause shown,
a Judge, by order, prescribe a shorter time. Wm;
shorter time is prescribed, a copy of the order
be served with the notice.

§ 2032. Either party may attend the examination and put such questions, direct and cross, as
may be proper. The deposition, when completed,
must be carefully read to the Witness and corrected by
him in any particular, if desired; it must then be subscribed by the Witness, ceitiiied by the Judge or officer
taking the deposition, inclosed in an envelop or Wrapper, sealed, and directed to the Clerk of the Court in
which the action is pending, or to such person as the
parties in writing may agree upon, and either delivered by the Judge or officer to the Clerk or such person, or transmitted through the mail or by some safe
private opportunity; and thereupon such deposition
may be used by either party upon the trial or other
proceeding against any party giving or receiving the
notice, subject to all legal exceptions; but if the parties attend at the examination, no objection to the form
of an interrogatory shall be made at the trial, unless
the same was stated at the time of the examination.

If the deposition be taken under Subdivisions 2, 3, and
4, of Section 2021,,proof must be made at the trial
that the witness continues absent or infirm, or is dead.
The deposition thus taken may be also read in case of
the death of the witness. g,

§ 2033. Notwithstanding the taking of a deposition,
it may be excluded from the case upon proof that
sufficient notice was not given to the party against
whom it is offered to enable him to attend the taking
thereof, or that the taking was not in all respects fair.

§ 2034. When a deposition has been once
taken, it may be read by either party in any stage of
the same action or proceeding, or in any other action
between the same (parties, upon the same subject, and
is then deemed the evidence of the party reading it.

§ 2035. Any party to an action or special proceeding in a’ Court or before a Judge of a sister State,
may obtain the testimony of a witness residing in this
State, to be used in such action or proceeding, in the
cases mentioned in the next two sections.

§ 2036. If a commission to take such testimony has

been issued from the ‘Court or Judge before whom
such action or proceeding is pending, on producing
the commission to a District or a County Judge, with
an athdavit satisfactory to him of the materiality of
the testimony, he may issue a subpoena to the witness,
requiring him to appear and testify before the Commissioner named in the commission, at a specified
time and place.

§ 2037. If a commission has not been issued, and it
appears to a District, County Judge, or Justice, by
affidavit satisfactory to him:

1. That the testimony of the Witness is material to
either party;

2. That a commission to take the testimony of such
Witness has not been issued;

{-5That, according to the law of the State where
the action or special proceeding is pending, the depo-'
sition of  Witness taken under such circumstances,
and before such Judge or Justice, will be received in
the action or proceeding;

—He must issue his subpoena, requiring the Witness to

appear and testify before him at a speciiied time and
place.

§ 2038. Upon the appearance «of the Witness, the
Judge or Justice must cause his testimony to be taken
in Writing, and must certify and transmit the same to
the Court or Judge before whom the action or proceeding is pending, in such -manner as the law of that
State requires.

§ 2042. The order of proof ‘must be regulated by
the sound discretion of the Court. Ordinarily, the

party beginning the case must exhaust his evidence
before the other party begins.

§ 2043. If either party requires it, the Judge may
exclude from the ‘Court room any witness of the
adverse party, not at the time under examination, so

that he may not hear the testimony of other witnesses. .

§ 2044. The Court must exercise a reasonable control over the mode of interrogation, so as to make it
as rapid, as distinct, as little annoying to the witness,
and as effective for the extraction of the truth, as may
be; but subject to this rule, the parties may put such
pertinent and legal questions as they see fit. The
Court, however, may stop the production of further
evidence upon any particular point when the evidence

upon it is already so full as to preclude reasonable
doubt

§ 2045. The examination of a witness by the party

producing himis denominated the direct examination;

the examination of the same witness, upon the same
matter, by the adverse party, the cross-examination.
The direct examination must be completed before the
cross-examination begins, unless the Court otherwise

direct.

§ 2046. A question which suggests to the witness
the answer which the ‘examining party desires, is

denominated a leading or suggestive question. On a,

direct examination, leading questions are not allowed,
except in the sound discretion of the Court, under
special circumstances, making it appear that‘ the
interests of justice require it.

§ 2047. A witness is allowed to refresh his memory
respecting a fact, by anything written by himself; or
under his direction, at the time when the fact occurred, or immediately thereafter, or at any other

time when the fact was fresh in his memory, and he
knew that the same was correctly stated in the Writing.
But in such case the Writing must be produced, and
may be seen by the adverse party, who may, if he
choose, cross-examine the witness upon it, and may
read it to the jury. So, a1so,,a Witness may testify
from such a writing, though he retain no recollection
of the particular facts, but such evidence must be
received with caution.

§ 2048. The opposite party may cross-examine the
witness as to any facts stated in his direct examination
or connected therewith, and in so doing may put leading questions, but if he examine him as to other matters, such examination is to be subject to the same
rules as a direct examination.

§ 2049. The party producing a Witness is not allowed
to impeach his credit by evidence of bad character,
but he may contradict him‘by other evidence, and
may also show that he has made at other times statements inconsistent with his present testimony, as provided in Section 2052.

§ 2050. A witness once examined cannot be reexamined as to the same matter without leave of the
Court, but he may be reexamined as to any new matter upon which he has been examined by the adverse
party. And after the examinations on both sides are
once concluded, the Witness cannot be recalled Without
leave of the Court. Leave is granted or withheld, in
the exercise of a sound discretion.

§ 2051. A Witness may be impeached by the party
against whom he was called, by contradictory evidence
or by evidence that his general reputation for truth,
honesty, or integrity is bad, but not by evidence of
particular wrongful acts, except that it may be shown

by the examination of the witness, or the record of
the judgment, that he had been convicted of a felony.

§ 2052. A witness may also be impeached by evidence that he has made, at other times, statements
inconsistent with his present testimony; but before this
can be done the statements must be related to him,
with the circumstances of times, places, and persons
present, and he must be asked whether he made such
statements, and if so, allowed to explain them. If the
statements be in writing, they must be shown to the

witness before any question is put to him concerning
them.

§ 2053. Evidence of the good character of a party
is not admissible in a civil action, nor of a witness in
any action, until the character of such party or witness

has been impeached, or unless the issue involves his
character.

§ 2054. Whenever a writing is shown to a witness,
it may be inspected by the opposite party, and if proved
by the witness must be read to the jury before his testimony is closed, or it cannot be read except on recalling the witness.

§ 2061. The jury, subject to the control of the Court,
in the cases specified in this Code, are the judges of
the effect or value of evidence addressed to them,
except when it is declared to be conclusive. They
are, however, to be instructed by the Court on all
proper occasions:

1. That their power of judging of the effect of evidence is not arbitrary, but to be exercised with legal
discretion, and in subordination to the rules of evidence;

2. That they are not bound to decide in conformity
with the declarations of any number of witnesses,
which do not produce conviction in their minds, against
a less number or against a presumption or other evidence satisfying their minds; 3. That a witness false in one part of his testimony
is to be distrusted in others;

4. That the testimony of an accomplice ought to be
viewed with distrust, and the evidence of the oral
admissions of a party with caution;

5. That in civil cases the affirmative of the issue
must be proved, and when the evidence is contradictory the decision must be made according to the preponderance of evidence; that in criminal cases guilt
must be established beyond reasonable doubt;

6. That evidence is to be estimated not only by its
own intrinsic weight, but also according to the evidence whichvit is in the power of one side to produce
and of the other to contradict; and, thereforee, "

7. That if weaker and less satisfactory evidence is
offered, when it appears that ‘stronger and more satisfactory was within the power of the party, the evidence
offered should be viewed with distrust.

§ 2064. A Witness, served with a subpoena,

must attend at the time appointed, with any papers
under his control required by the subpoena, and answer
all pertinent and legal questions; and, unless sooner
discharged, must ‘remain until the testimony is closed.

§ 2065. A witness must answer questions
legal and pertinent to the matter in issue, though his
answer may establish a claim against himself; but he
need not give an answer which will have a tendency
to subject him to punishment for a felony; nor need
he give an answer which will have a direct tendency
to degrade his character, unless it be to the very fact
in issue, or to a fact from which the fact in issue would
be presumed. But a witness must answer as to the
fact of his previous conviction for felony.

§ 2066. It is the right of a witness to be protected
from irrelevant, improper, or insulting questions, and
from harsh or insulting demeanor; to be detained only
so long as the interests of justice require it; to be
examined only as to matters legal and pertinent to the
Issue.

§ 2067. Every person who has been, in
good faith, served with a subpoena to attend as a witness before a Court, Judge, Commissioner, referee, or
other person, in a case where the disobedience of the
witness may be punished as a contempt, is exonerated
from arrest in a civil action while going to the place
of attendance, necessarily remaining there, and returning therefrom.

\

§ 2068. The arrest of a Witness, contrary
to the preceding section, is void, and, when willfully

made, is a contempt of the Court; and the person
making it is responsible to the witness arrested for
double the amount of the damages which may be
assessed against him, and is also liable to an action at
the suit of the party serving the witness with the
subpmna,'for the damages sustained by him in consequence of the arrest.

§ 2069. An officer is not liable to the
party for making the arrest in ignorance of the facts
creating the exoneration, but is liable for any subsequent detention of the party, if such party claim the
exemption, and make an affidavit stating:

I. That he has been served With a subpoena to
attend as a witness before a Court, officer, or other
person, specifying the same, the place of attendance,
and the action or proceeding in which the subpoena
was issued; and,

2. That he has not thus been served by his own
procurement, with the intention of avoiding an arrest;

3. That he is at the time going to the place of '

attendance, or returning therefrom, or remaining there
in obedience to the subpoena.
The affidavit may be taken by the officer, and exonerates him from liability for discharging the witness
when arrested.»

§ 2070. The Court or officer issuing the subpoena,
and the Court or officer before whom the attendance
is required, may discharge the witness from an arrest
made in violation of Section 2067. If the Court have
adjourned before the arrest, or before application for
the discharge, a Judge of the Court or a County J ndge

may grant the discharge.

§ 2074. An offer in writing to pay a particular
sum of money, or to deliver a written instrument or
specific personal property, is, if not accepted, equivalent to the actual production and tender of the money,
instrument, or property.

§ 2075. Whoever pays money, or delivers an instrument or property, is entitled to a receipt therefore from
the person to whom the payment or delivery is made,
and may demand a proper signature to such receipt
as a condition of the payment or delivery.’

§ 2076. The person to whom a tender is made must,
at the time, specify any objection he may have to the
money, instrument, or property, or he must be deemed
to have Waived it; and if the objection be to the

amount of money, the terms of the instrument, or
the amount or kind of property, he must specify the
amount, terms, or kind which he requires, or be precluded from objecting afterwards.

§ 2077. The following are the rules for construing
the descriptive part of a conveyance of real property,
when the construction is doubtful and there are no
other sufiicient circumstances to determine it:

1. Where there are certain definite and ascertained
particulars in the description, the addition of others
which are indefinite, unknown, or false does not frustrate the conveyance, but it is to be construed by the
first mentioned particulars;

2. When permanent and visible or ascertained
boundaries or monuments are inconsistent with the
measurement, either of lines, angles, or surfaces, the
boundaries or monuments are. paramount; ‘

3. Between different measurements which are inconsistent with each other, that of angles is ‘paramount to that of surfaces, and that of lines paramount
to both;

4. VVhen a road, or a stream of water not navigable,
is the boundary, the rights of the grantor to the middle of the road or the thread of the stream are included
in the conveyance, except where the road or bed of the
stream is held under another title;

5. When tide water is the boundary, the rights of
the grantor to low water mark are included in the
conveyance;

6. When the description refers to a map, and that
reference is inconsistent with other particulars, it controls them, if it appear that the parties acted with reference to the map; otherwise the map is subordinate
to other definite and ascertained particulars.

§ 2078. An offer of compromise is_ not an admission
that anything is due.

§ 2079. In an action for divorce on the ground of
adultery, a confession of adultery, Whether in or out
of the pleadings, is not of itself sufdcient to justify a
judgment of divorce. ’

§ 2083. The testimony of a Witness may
be taken and perpetuated as provided in this Chapter.

§ 2084. The applicant must produce to a
District Judge, or to a County Judge, an affidavit,
stating: .

1. That the applicant expects to be a party to an
action in a Court in this State, and in_ such case, the
names of the persons whom he expects will be adverse
parties; or,

2. That the proof of some fact is necessary to perfect the title to property in which he is interested, or I
to establish marriage, descent, heirship, or any other
matter which may hereafter become material to establish, though no suit may at thetime be anticipated, or
if anticipated, he may not know the parties to such
suit; and,

3. The name of the Witness to be examined, his
place of residence, and a general outline of the facts
expected to be proved. The Judge to whom such
petition is presented, must make an order, allowing

the ‘examination and prescribing the notice to be
given, which notice, if parties are known and reside
in this State, must be personally served on them, and
if unknown, such notice must be served on the Clerk
of the county where the property to be affected by
such evidence is situated, and a notice thereof published in some newspaper to be designated by the
Judge making the order.

§ 2085. Upon proof of service of the
notice, the person before whom the depositions are
ordered to be taken must proceed to take the depositions of the witnesses named in the petition upon the
facts therein set forth, and the taking of the same
may be continued, from time to time, in the discretion
of such person.

§ 2086. The examination must be by question and answer, and if the testimony is to be taken in
another State, it must be taken upon interrogatories
settled in the same manner as in cases of depositions,
unless the parties otherwiseagree. The deposition,
when completed, must be carefully read to and subscribed by the witness, then certified by the Judge,
and immediately thereafter filed in the office of the
Clerk of the county where it was taken, together with
the order for the examination of the witness, the affidavit on which the same was granted, and the affidavit of service of the affidavit, order, and notice.

§ 2087. The aiiidavits filed with the deposition, or
a certified copy thereof, are primary evidence of the
facts stated therein, to show compliance with the provisions of this Chapter.

§ 2088. If a. trial be had between the parties named in the petition as parties expectant, or their
successors in interest, or between any parties wherein
it may be material to establish the facts which such

depositions prove, or tend to prove, upon proof of the
death or insanity of the witnesses or their inability to
attend the trial by reason of age, sickness, or settled
infirmity, the depositions, or certified copies thereof,
may be used by either party, subject to all legal objections; but if the parties attend at the examination, no
objection to the form of -an interrogatory can b'e made
at the trial, unless the same was stated at the examination.

§ 2089. The deposition so taken and read in evidence has the same effect as the oral testimony of the
witness, and no other, and every objection to the witness, or to the relevancy of any question put to him,
or of any answer given by him, may be made in the
same manner as if he were examined orally at the
trial.

§ 2093. Every Court, every Judge, or Clerk of any
Court, every Justice, and every Notary Public, and
every officer or person authorized to take testimony in
any action or proceeding, or to decide upon evidence,
has power to administer oaths or affirmations.

§ 2094. An oath is usually administered as follows:
The person who swears, expressing his assent, when
addressed in the following form: “You do swear, in
the presence of the everlasting God, that the evidence
you shall give in this issue (or matter) pending between and , shall be the truth, the Whole
truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God.”

§ 2095. Whenever the Court before which a person
is offered as a Witness is satisfied that he has a peculiar
mode of swearing, connected with or in addition to the
usual form of administration, which, in his opinion, is
more solemn or obligatory, the Court may, in its discretion, adopt that mode.

§ 2096. When a person is sworn who believes in any
other than the Christian religion, he may be sworn
according to the peculiar ceremonies of his religion, if
there be any such.

§ 2097. Any person who desires it may, at his option,
instead of taking an oath make his solemn affirmation
or declaration, by assenting, when addressed, in the
following form: “ You do solemnly affirm (or declare)
that,” etc:, as in Section 2094.
§ 2101. All questions of fact, other than those mentioned in the next section, are to be decided by the
jury, and all evidence thereon addressed to them, except when otherwise provided by this Code.

§ 2102. All questions of law, including the admissibility of testimony, the facts preliminary to such

admission, and the construction of statutes and other

Writings, and other rules of evidence, are to be decided
by the Court, and all discussions of law addressed to


