
§ 3. No part of it is retroactive, unless expressly so de
clared.
See sec. 18.
§ 4. The rule of the common law, that statutes in dero
gation thereof are to be strictly construed, has no applica
tion to this Code. The Code establishes the law of this
State respecting the subjects to which it relates, and its
provisions and all proceedings under it are to be liberally
construed, with a view to effect its objects and to promote
justice.
State practice and Federal courts—51 Cal. 479.
Liberal interpretation of Code—See sees. 462, 475.
§ 5. The provisions of this Code, so far as they are sub
stantially the same as existing statutes, must be con
strued as continuations thereofand not as new enact
ments.
Remedy, when cumulative—2 Cal. 243.
§ 6. All persons who at the time this Code takes effect
hold office under any of the acts repealed continue to
hold the same according to the tenure thereof, except
those offices which are not continued by one of the codes
adopted at this session of the Legislature.
§ 7. When any office is abolished by the repeal of any
act, and such act is not in substance re-enacted or contin
ued in either of the codes, such office ceases at the timo
the codes take effect.
Repeal—19 Cal. 512; 49 Cal. 273.
§ 8. No action or proceeding commenced before this
Code takes effect, and no right accrued, is affected by its
provisions, but the proceedings therein must conform to
the requirements of this Code as far as applicable.
„See Civil Code, sees. 6, 20; also repealing clause at the end of this
Code.

§ 9. "When a limitation or period of time prescribed in
auy existing statute for acquiring a right or barring a
remedy, or for any other purpose, has began to run before
this Code goes into effect, and the same or any limitation
is prescribed in this Code, the time which has already
run shall be deemed part of the time prescribed as such
limitation
See sees. 361,by362;thisalsoCode.
6 Cal. 430[In
; 50effect
CaL 612.July 1st, 1874.]
§ 10. Holidays within the meaning of this Code are:
every Sunday, the first day of January, the twenty-sec
ond day of February, the thirtieth day of May, the
fourth day of July, the twenty-fifth day of December,
every day on which an election is held throughout the
State, and every day appointed by the President of the
United States, or by the Governor of this State, for a pub
lic fast, thanksgiving, or holiday. If the first day of
January, the twenty-second day of February, the thir
tieth day of May, the fourth day of July, or the twentyfifth day of December, fall upon a Sunday, the Monday
following
See sec. 134.is a holiday. [In effect April 9th, 1880.]
§ 11. If the first day of January, the twenty-second
day of February, the fourth day of July, or the twentyfifth day of December, falls upon a Sunday, the Monday
following is a holiday. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
§ 12. The time in which any act provided by law is to
be done is computed by excluding the first day and in
cluding the last, unless the last day is a holiday, and then
it is also excluded.
See sec. 476.
§ 13. Whenever any act of a secular nature, other than
a work of necessity or mercy, is appointed by law or con
tract to be performed upon a particular day, which day
falls upon a holiday, such act may be performed upon the
next business day, with the same effect as if it had been
performed upon the day appointed.
§ 14. When the seal of a court, public officer, or per
son, is required by law to be affixed to any paper, the
word "seal" includes an impression of such seal upon
the paper alone, as well as upon wax or a wafer affixed
thereto.
See sees. 147 to 153, and 1929 to 1934.
Seal, sufficiency of—5 Cal. 220, 315; 13 CaL 221, 510; 15 Cal. 363; 20
Cal. 150.
§ 15. "Words giving a joint autlrprity to three or more
public officers or other persons are construed as giving
such authority to a majority of them, unless it is other
wise expressed in the act giving the authority.
Talcott v. Blanding, March 10th, 1880.
§ 16. Words and phrases are construed according to
the context and the approved usage of the language; but
technical words and phrases, and such others as have
acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law, or
are defined in the succeeding section, are to be construed
according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning or
definition.
§ 17. Words used in this Code in the present tense
include the future as well as the present; words used in
the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter;
the singular number includes the plural, and the plural
the singular; the word "person " includes a corporation as
well as a natural person; writing includes printing; oath
includes affirmation or declaration; and every mode of
oral statement, under oath or affirmation, is embraced by
the term "testify," and every written one in the term
"depose;" signature or subscription includes mark, when
the person cannot write, his name being written near1 it,
and witnessed by a person who writes his own name as a
witness.
The following words also have in this Code the significa
tion attached to them in this section, unless otherwise ap
parent from the context:
1. The word "property" includes both real and personal
property.
2. The words "real property" are coextensive with
lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
3. The words "personal property" include money,
goods, chattels, things in action, and evidences of debt.
i. The word " month" means a calendar month, unless
otherwise expressed.
5. The word "will" includes codicils.
6. The word "writ" signifies an order or precept in
writing, issued in the name of the people, or of a court
or judicial officer, and the word " process " a writ or sum
mons issued in the course of judicial proceedings.
7. The word "State," when applied to the different
arts of the United States, includes the District of Columia and the Territories; and the words ''United States"
may include the District and Territories. [In effect July
1st, 1874.]
§ 18. No statute, law, or rule is continued in force, be
cause it is consistent witli the provisions of this Code on
the same subject; but in all cases provided for by this
Code, all statutes, laws, and rules heretofore in force in
this State, whether consistent or not with the provisions
of this Code, unless expressly continued in force by it,
are repealed and abrogated.
This repeal or abrogation does not revive any former
law heretofore repealed, nor does it affect any right al
ready existing or accrued, or any action or proceeding
already taken, except as in this Code provided; nor does
it affect any private statute not expressly repealed.
See sees. 3, 8; also repealing clause at the end of this Code.
Repeals generally—6 Cal. SSI ; 8 Cal. 377; 19 Cal. 501; 20 Cal. !)5; 39

Limitations—See sec. 9.
Retroactive effect—See sec. 3.
§ 19. This act, whenever cited, enumerated, referred
to, or amended, may be designated simply as the "Code
of Civil Procedure," adding, when necessary, the number
of the section.
§ 20. Judicial remedies are such as are administered
by the courts of justice, or by judicial officers empowered
for that purpose by the constitution and statutes of this
State.
§ 21. These remedies are divided into two classes:
1. Actions; and,
2. Special proceedings.
§ 22. An action is an ordinary proceeding in a court of
justice, by which one party prosecutes another, for the enforcement or protection of a right, the redress or preven
tion of a wrong, or the punishment of a public offense.
§ 23. Every other remedy is a special proceeding.
See sees. 52, 75, 1022, 1063, 1064, 1109, 1110, and Part III of this Code,
generally.

§ 24. Actions are of two kinds :
1. Civil; and,
2. Criminal.
See Part II of this Code, sec. 307, et »eq.
§ 25. A civil action arises out of—
1. An obligation.
2. An injury.
49 Cal. 465.
§ 26. An obligation is a legal duty, by which one per
son is bound to do or not to do a certain thing, and arises
from:
1. Contract; or,
2. Operation of law. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
See Civil Code, sec. 1427, et seq.
§ 27. An injury is of two kinds :
1.2. To the
property.
person ; and,
§ 28. An injury to property consists in depriving its
owner of the benefit of it, which is done by taking, with
holding,
Cause ofdeteriorating
injury—45 Cal. 534.
or destroying it.
§ 29. Every other injury is an injury to the person.
§ 30. A civil action is prosecuted by one party against
another for the enforcement or protection of a right, or
the redress or prevention of a wrong.
See sec. 307, et seq.
§ 31. The Penal Code defines and provides for the pros
ecution of a criminal action.
§ 32. When the violation of a right admits of botli a
civil and criminal remedy, the right to prosecute the one is
not merged in the other.
§ 33. The several courts of this State.
§ 34. Courts of record.
§ 33. The following are the Courts of Justice of this
State :
1. The Court of Impeachment;
2. The Supreme Court;
3. The Superior Courts;
4. The Justices' Courts;
5. The Police Courts, and such other inferior courts as
the Legislature may establish in any incorporated city or
town, or city and county.
See
For Const.
subd. 5,Cal.
seearts.
Const.3 and
§ 36.
37. Members
Jurisdiction.
§ 38. Officers of the court.
§ 39. Trial of impeachments provided for in the Penal Code.
§ 36. The Court of Impeachment is the Senate ; when
sitting as such court, the senators shall be upon oath ; and
at least two-thirds of the members elected shall be neces
sary to constitute a quorum.
Const. Cal. art. 4, sec. 17; art. 6, sec. 1.
§ 37. The court has jurisdiction to try impeachments,
when presented by the Assembly, of the Governor, Lieu
tenant-Governor, Secretary of State, Controller, Treas
urer, Attorney-General, Surveyor-General, Chief Justice
of the Supreme Court, Associate Justices of the Supreme
Court, and Judges of the Superior Courts, for any misde
meanor in office. *
Const. Cal. art. 4, sec. 18.
Other civil officers—45 Cal. 200.
§ 38. The officers of the Senate are the officers of the
court.
See Penal Code, sees. 10, and 737 to 753.
Impeachment—manner of, 45 Cal. 200.
§ 39. Proceedings on the trial of impeachments are
provided for in the Penal Code.
See Penal Code, sec. 737 et seq.
§ 40. The Supreme Court shall consist of a Chief Jus
tice and six Associate Justices, who shall be elected by
the qualified electors of the State at large, at the general
State elections next preceding the expiration of the terms
of office of their predecessors respectively, and hold their
offices for the term of twelve years from and after the
first Monday after the first day of January next succeed
ing their election; provided, that of the justices elected
at the general State election of eighteen hundred and
seventy-nine, the Chief Justice shall go out of office at
the end of eleven years, and the six Associate Justices
shall have so classified, or shall so classify themselves,
by lot, that two of them shall go out of office at the end
of three years, two of them at the end of seven years,
and two of them at the end of eleven years, from the first
Monday after the first day of January, eighteen hundred
and eighty ; and an entry of such classification shall have
been or shall be made in the minutes of the court in
hank, signed by them, and a duplicate thereof filed in
the office of the Secretary of State.
Const. Cat art. 6, sees. 2, 3.
Eligibility—sec. 156.
Absence of judge—sec. 46; 2 Cal. 198, 610.
De facto judge—29 Cal. 485.
§ 41. The years during which a Justice of the Supreme
Court is to hold office are to be computed respectively
from and including the first Monday after the first day of
January of any one year to and excluding the first Mon
day after the first day of January of the next succeeding
year.
Const. Cal. art. 6, sec. 3.
§ 42. If a vacancy occur in the office of a Justice of
the Supreme Court, the Governor shall appoint an eligible
person to hold the office until the election and qualifica
tion of a justice to fill the vacancy, which election shall
take place at the next succeeding general election; and
the justice so elected shall hold the office for the remain
der of the unexpired term of his predecessor.
Const. Cal. art. 6, sec. 3.
Vacancy—see sec. 40, Absence op Judge.
§ 43. There shall be two departments of the Supreme
Court, denominated respectively Department One and
Department Two. The Chief Justice shall assign three
of the Associate Justices to each department, and such
assignment may be changed by him from time to time;
prodded, that the Associate Justices shall be competent
to sit in either department, and may interchange with one
another by agreement among themselves, or if no such
agreement be made, as ordered by the Chief Justice.
The Chief Justice may sit in either department, and shall
preside when so sitting; but the justices assigned to each
department shall select one of their number as presiding
justice. Each of the departments shall have the power
to hear and determine causes and all questions arising
therein, subject to the provisions in relation to the court
in bank. The presence of three justices shall be neces
sary to transact any business in either of the departments,
except such as may be done at chambers; but one or more
of the justices may adjourn from time to time with the
same effect as if all were present, and the concurrence of
three justices shall be necessary to pronounce a judgment;
provided, that if three do not concur, the cause may be
reheard in the same department, or transmitted to the
other
Adjournment,
Chambers,
Const.department,
Cal. art.
powers
6,holidays—sec.
sec.at—sec.
or
2. to the
165.135.
court in bank.
Concurrence-32 CaL 633.
§ 44. The Chief Justice shall apportion the business
to the departments, and may, in his discretion, order any
cause pending before the court to be heard and decided by
the court in bank. The order may be made before or
after judgment pronounced by a department; but when a
cause has been allotted to one of the departments and a
judgment pronounced therein, the order must be made
within thirty days after such judgment, and concurred in
by two Associate Justices; and if so made, it shall have
the effect to vacate and set aside the judgment. Any four
justices may, either before or after judgment by a depart
ment, order a cause to be heard in bank. If the order be
not made within the time above limited, the judgment
shall be final; provided, that no judgment by a depart
ment shall become final until the expiration of the period
of thirty days aforesaid, unless approved by the Chief
Justice in writing, with the concurrence of two Associate
Justices.
Const. Cal. art. 6, sec. 2. See sec.'129; Supreme Ct. rule 30.
§ 45. The Chief Justice or any four justices may con
vene the court in bank at any time, and the Chief Justice
shall be the presiding justice of the court when so con
vened. The presence of four justices shall be necessary
to transact any business, and the concurrence of four
justices present at the argument shall be necessary to
pronounce a judgment in the court in bank; provided, that
if four justices so present do not concur in a judgment,
then all the justices qualified to sit in the cause shall hear
the argument, but to render a judgment a concurrence of
four justices shall be necessary; and every judgment of
the court in bank shall be final, except in cases in which
no previous judgment has been rendered in one of the de
partments, and in such cases the judgment of the court
in bank shall be final, unless within thirty days after such
judgment an order be made in writing, signed by five jus
tices, granting a rehearing.
Const. Cal. art. 6, sec. 2.
§ 46. In case of the absence of the Chief Justice from
the place at which the court ip bank is held, or his inabil
ity to act, the Associate Justices shall select one of their
own number to perform the duties and exercise the powers
of the Chief Justice during such absence or inability to
act.
Const. Cal. art. 6, sec. 2.
§ 47. The Supreme Court shall always be open for the
transaction of business. It shall hold regular sessions
for the hearing of causes, either in bank, or in one or both
of its departments, at the capital of the State, commenc
ing on the first Mondays of May and second Mondays of
November ; at the city and county of San Francisco, com
mencing on the second Mondays of January and third
Mondays of July; and at the city of Los Angeles, com
mencing on the lirst Mondays of April and second Mon
days of October; and special sessions at either of the
above named places at such other times as may be pre
scribed by the justices thereof. The justices and officers
of the Supreme Court shall be allowed their actual trav
eling expenses in going to and from their respective places
of residence upon the business of the court, or to attend
its sessions. It proper rooms in which to hold the court,
and for the accommodation of the officers thereof, are not
provided by the State, together with attendants, furni
ture, fuel, lights, and stationery, suitable and sufficient
for the transaction of business, the court, or any three
justices thereof, may direct the Clerk of the Supreme
Court to provide such rooms, attendants, furniture, fuel,
lights, and stationery ; and the expenses thereof, certified
by any three justices to be correct, shall be paid out of
the State treasury, for which expenses, and to defray the
traveling expenses of the justices and officers of the
Supreme Court above mentioned, a sufficient sum shall
be annually appropriated out of any funds in the State
treasury not otherwise appropriated. The monies so ap
propriated shall be subject to the order of the Clerk of
the Supreme Court, and be by him disbursed on proper
vouchers, and the same shall be accounted for by him in
annual settlements with the Controller of State on the
first Monday of December of each year.
Always open—Const. Cal. art. 6, sec. 2.
§ 48. Adjournments from day to day, or from time to
time, are to be construed as recesses in the sessions, and
shall not prevent the court, or either of its departments,
from sitting at any time.
See sec. 47n.
Adjournment, formerly—see sec. 33, ante, under Jurisdiction.
§ 49. In the determination of causes, all decisions of
the Supreme Court in bank, or in departments, shall be
given in writing, and the grounds of the decision shall be
stated.
Const. Cal. art. 6, sec. 2.
§ 50. The jurisdiction of the Supreme Court is of two
kinds :
1. Original; and,
2. Appellate.
U. S. Snpreme Ct.r writ of error from—11 Cal. 176; Beicher v.
Chambers, 53 Cal. 635.
Facts—not investigated, 26 Cal. 273.
Correction—of minutes, 36 Cal. 328: of records of lower court, 31
Cal. 107.
Final judgment—37 Cal. 438.
Original jurisdiction—former lack of, notes to sec. 51.
§ 51. In the exercise of its original jurisdiction the Su
preme Court shall have power to issue writs of mandamus,
certiorari, prohibition, and habeas corpus; and it shall
also have power to issue all other writs necessary and
proper
Const. to
Cal.the
art.complete
6, sec. 4. exercise of its appellate jurisdiction.
See Hyatt t). Allen, March 23rd, 1880, and notes to sec. 33, ante, on
Jurisdiction.
Original jurisdiction—extent of, 1 Cal. 85, 144, 347 ; 7 Cal. 140 ; 14 Cal.
Writ—denned,
egraph,
sec. 1017. sec. 17; seal, sec. 153; issuance, sec. 54; service by tel
§ 52. The Supreme Court shall have appellate jurisdic
tion:
1. In all cases in equity, except such as arise in Justices'
Courts.
2. In all cases at law which involve the title or posses
sion of real estate, or the legality of any tax, impost, as
sessment, toll or municipal line, or in which the demand,
exclusive of interest, or the value of the property in con
troversy, amounts to three hundred dollars.
3. In all cases of forcible entry and detainer, proceed
ings in insolvency, actions to prevent or abate a nuisance,
and in all such probate matters as may be provided by
law.
1 In all special proceedings.
5. In all criminal cases prosecuted by indictment, or
alone.
information,
in a court of record, on questions of law
Const. Cal. art. 6, sec. 4.
Appeals in general—sec. 936 et seq.
Appeals to Supreme Court—sec. 963 et uq.
Appellate jurisdiction—1 Cal. 114; 8 Cal. 297; 10 Cal. 249; 31 Cal. 82!
34 Cal. 29.
Jurisdiction generally—see notes to sec. 33, ante.
Subdivision 1. Generally—sec sec. 76, subd. 1. Added jurisdic
tion of Justices* Courts, seo sec. 113.
Subdivision
See sec.
sec. 76,subd.4;
76, subd. 3. Divorce, 10 Cal. 251.
Subdivision 3.2. See
Subdivision 4. Special proceedings—Extraordinary writs, sees.
1067-1sees.
110. 1180-1206.
Forcible Insolvency,
Entry and Detainer,
of,
sec. 1822; subd.
6 Cal.3.231:Liens,
12 Cal.enforcement
281 ; 28 Cal.
117.
Eminent
Domain,
sees.
1237-1263;
2;)
Cal.
112;
42
35,68.125.Arbi
tration, sees. 1281-1290. Award, appeal from, 2 Cal. 78:Cal.
42 Cal.
Subdivision 5. Indictable offenses—see Penal Code, sec. 888.
Information—see Const. Cal. art. 1, sec. 8. Court of record—see

§ 53. The Supreme Court may affirm, reverse, or mod
ify any judgment or order appealed from, and may direct
tlie proper judgment or order to be entered, or direct a new
trial or further proceedings to be had. The decision of
the court shall be given in writing; and in giving its de
cision, if a new trial be granted, the court shall pass upon
and determine all the questions of law involved in the
case, presented upon such appeal, and necessary to the
final determination of the case. Its judgment in appealed
cases shall be remitted to the court from which the appeal
was taken.
Affirming-judgment—see sec. 955; 15 Cal. 324; 16 Cal. 207 ; 24 Cal. 52.
Amendments-Sec. 473 ; 7 Cal. 447; 8 Cal. 135.
Appeal, effect of—generally, sees. 949, 1049; as to new trial. 40 Cal. 280.
Correcting judgments—7 Cal. 447; 20 Cal. 415; Reed v. Allison, April
5th, 1880; also, seo Amendments.
Costs on modification—sec. 1027.
Death—pending appeal, sec. 129, (Supreme Ct. Rule 14); sec. 385; 20
Cal. 68; S. &. L. Soc. v. Gibb, 21 Cal. 60tl; 35 Cal. 463; 40 Cal. 90; 49 Cal.
149.
Decision—requirements of, see sec. 49; limits of, 5 Cal. 96; 30 Cal.
223;
terms
of, 720Cal.
for57.fllinpr,
Cal. art. 6,Law
see. of
21; the
paramount
when,
Cal.447;
415;time
45Cal.
SeoConst.
also, Dictum,
Cask, Opinion, StareDecisis.
Dictum-9 Cal. 236, 615; 20 Cal. 276; 30 Cal. 103; 39 Cal. 223 ; 53 Cal. 60S.
Discretion— Interference for abuse of, only. See sec. 657, Genkkai.
Note; also, subd. 1 and subd. 6, notes, in same section.
Review, bill of—12 Cal. 99; 34 Cal. 76; 41 Cal. 320; extent of. gener
ally, seo Record as confining review ; on appeal from judgment, sec.
956.
Rules—sec. 129.
decisis—see
Cal.222;
374 ; Hlhn
5 Cal.v.403
; 6 Cal.31
687;Stare
7Cal.592
; 21 Cal. Law
3i)5; 2iofC'.l.the
109.Case;
604 ; 292Cal.
Curtis,
Cal. -100; 39 Cal. 223; 42 Cal. 488 ; 48 Cal. 493, 523. Contra, see OVERRUL
ING FORMER JUDGMENT.
Stipulation—sec. 283, note to subd. 1.
§ 54. The concurrence of three Justices of the Supreme
Court is necessary for the issuance of any writ, or the
transaction of any business, except such as can bo done
at chambers; provided, that each of the justices shall have
power to issue writs of habeas corpus to any part of the
State upon petition by or on behalf of any person held in
actual custody, and may make such writs returnable be
fore himself or the Supreme Court, or any department, or
judge thereof, or before any Superior Court in the State, or
any judge thereof.
See Const. Cal. art. 6, sec. 4.
Concurrence—sec. 43».
Business at chambers—sec. 165.
Single justice—40 Cal. 483.
HABEAS CORPUS.
Jurisdiction,
See IT. S. Const,asart.
to—sees.
8, Amdts.,
33n, and 51.
Const. Cal. art. 2, sees. 5, 6.

uary 13th, 1880; Kx parte Ellis, March 1st, 18S0; Ex parte Claike.Maruh
23rd, 1880; Ex parte Colm, May 19th, 1880; Ex parte Kearney, May 27th,
1880.
§ 55. All records, books, papers, causes, actions, pro
ceedings, and appeals lodged, deposited, or pendiDg in the
Supreme Court'abolished by the Constitution, are trans
ferred to the Supreme Court herein provided for, which
has the same power and jurisdiction over them as if they
had been in the first instance lodged, deposited, filed, or
commenced therein, or, in cases of appeal, appealed
thereto.
Const.
art. 22,February
sec. 3. 19th, 1880.
People Cal.
v. Colby,
§ 56. In all cases of appeal transferred to the Supreme
Court, its judgments shall be remitted to the Superior
Courts of the counties, or cities and counties, from which
the appeals were taken respectively, with the same force
and effect as if said cases had been appealed to the Su
preme Court from such Superior Courts.
See sec. 55, note.
§ 65. There shall he in each of the organized counties,
or cities and counties of the State, a Superior Court, for
each of which one judge, and for some of which two or
more judges, as hereinafter in subsequent sections spe
cially provided, shall be elected by the qualified electors
of the county, or city and county, at the general State
elections next preceding the expiration of the terms of
office of their predecessors respectively; provided, that in
and for the counties of Yuba and Sutter combined, only
one Superior Judge shall be elected, who shall hold t he
Superior Courts of both said counties, and in accordance
with such rules for the dispatch of business in both said
counties as he may adopt.
Const. Cal. art. 6, sec. 6.
§ 66. In each of the counties of Alameda, Los Angeles,
Sacramento, San Joaquin, Santa Clara, and Sonoma," here
shall be elected two Judges of the Superior Court; and in
each of said counties, aud in any county, or city and
county, other than the city and county of San Francisco,
in
riorwhich
Court,there
the shall
judgesbe ofmore
suchthan
court
onemay
Judgehold
of the
as many
Sune^
sessions of said court at the same time as there are judges
thereof, aud shall apportion the business among' them
selves as equally as may be.
Const. Cal. art. 6, sees. 6. 7.
§ 67. In the city and county of San Francisco there
shall be elected twelve Judges of the Superior Court, any
one or more of whom may hold court; and there may be
as many sessions of said court at the same time as there
are judges thereof. The said judges shall choose from
their own number a Presiding Judge, who may at any time
be removed and another chosen in his place, by a vote of
any seven of them. The Presiding Judge shall distribute
the business of the court among the judges thereof, and
prescribe the order of business. The judgments, orders,
and proceedings of any session of the Superior Court, held
hy any one or more of the judges of said court, shall be
equally effective as if all the judges of said court pre
sided
Process—sec.
Jurisdiction—sees.
Const.atCal.
such
art.78.
session.
Co-ordinate jurisdiction—sec. 33n.
§ 68. The term of office of Judges of the Superior
Court shall be six years from and after the first Monday
of January next succeeding their election ; provided, that
the twelve Judges of the Superior Court elected in the
city and county of San Francisco at the general State
election of eighteen hundred and seventy-nine shall have
so classified, or shall so classify themselves, by lot, that
four of them shall go out of office at the end of one year,
four of them at the end of three years, and four of them
at the end of five years from the first Monday of January,
eighteen hundred and eighty; and the entry of such classi
fication shall have been, or shall be, made in the minutes
of the court, signed by them, and a duplicate thereof filed
in the office of the Secretary of State; and providedfurther,
that all the other Superior Judges elected at the general
State election of eighteen hundred and seventy-nine shall
Bo out of office at the end of five years from the first
Monday
Const. Cal.
of art.
January,
6, sec. 6. eighteen hundred and eighty.
§ 69. The years during which a Judge of a Superior
Court is to hold office are to be computed respectively
from and including the first Monday of January of any
one year to and excluding the first Monday of January of
the next succeeding year.
Const. Cal. art. 6, sec. 6. See sec. 41, ante.
§ 70. If a vacancy occur in the office of Judge of a
Superior Court, the Governor shall appoint an eligible
Person to hold the office until the election and qualificaCodb Civ. Pkoc—5.
tion of a judge to fill the vacancy, which election shall
take place at the next succeeding general election, and
the judge so elected shall hold office for the remainder of
the unexpired term.
Const. Cal. art. 6, sec. 6. See sec. 42, ante.
Election to fill vacancy—11 Cal. 49, 77; 12 Cal. 378; 17 Cal. 11.
§ 71. A Judge of any Superior Court may hold the
Superior Court in any- county, at the request of the Judge
or Judges of the Superior Court thereof, and, upon the
request of the Governor, it shall be his duty to do so; and
iu either case the judge holding the court shall have the
same power as a judge thereof.
Const. Cal. art. 6, sec. 8.
§ 72. Any cause in a Superior Court may be tried by a
judge pro tempore, who must be a member of the bar ad
mitted to practice before the Supreme Court, agreed upon
iu writing by the parties litigant, or their attorneys of
record, approved by the court, and sworn to try the cause;
and his action in the trial of such cause shall have the
same effect as if he were a judge of such court. A judge
pro tempore shall, before entering upon his duties ill any
cause, take and subscribe the following oath or affirma
tion : " I do solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be)
that I will support the Constitution of the United States
and the Constitution of the State of California, and that
I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of judge
pro tempore in the cause wherein
is plaintifff, and
isConst.
defendant,
Cal. art. according
6, sec. 8. to the best of my ability."Admitted—before Supreme Court, must be, see sec. 157.
Agreed upon—see sec. 283, subd. 1.
§ 73. The Superior Courts shall be always open, (legal
holidays and non-judicial days excepted) and they shall
hold their sessions at the county seats of the several coun
ties, or cities and counties, respectively. They shall hold
regular sessions, commencing on the first Mondays of
January, April, July, and October, and special sessions
at such other times as may be prescribed by the judge or
judges thereof; provided, that in the city and county of
San Francisco the Presiding Judge shall prescribe the
times of holding such special sessions.
See Const. Cal. art. 6, sec. 5.
Always open—see same. .
Holidays, etc.—see sees. 134, 135.
County seats—8 Cal. 382.
§ 74. Adjournments from day to day, or from time to
time, are to be construed as recesses in the sessions, and
shall not prevent the court from sitting at any time.
See sec. 48.
Recesses—vacation, proceedings during, before Const. Cal. 1879, sec.
33tt; 20 Cal. 55; 44 Cal. 85; 46 Cal. 353.
§ 75. The jurisdiction of the Superior Courts is of two
kinds:
1. Original; and,
2. Appellate.
See sec. 50, and 33n.
§ 76. The Superior Courts shall have original jurisdic
tion :
1. In all cases in equity.
2. In all civil actions in which the subject of litigation is
not capable of pecuniary estimation.
3. In all cases at law which involve the title or posses
sion of real property, or the legality of any tax, impost,
assessment, toll, or municipal tine, and in all other cases
in which the demand, exclusive of interest or the value of
the property in controversy, amounts to three hundred
dollars.
4. Of actions of forcible entry and detainer, of proceed
ings in insolvency, of actions to prevent or abate a nui
sance, of all matters of probate, of divorce, and for an
nulment of marriage, and* of all such special cases and
proceedings as are not otherwise provided for.
5. In all criminal cases amounting to felony, and cases
of misdemeanor not otherwise provided for. Said courts
shall have the power of naturalization, and to issue pa
pers therefore. Said courts and their judges, or any of
them, shall have power to issue writs of mandamus, cer
tiorari, prohibition, quo warranto, and of habeas corpus
on petition by or on behalf of any person in actual cus
tody, in their respective counties. Injunctions and writs
of prohibition may be issued and served on legal holidays
and non-judicial days.
Const.
Generally—see
Cal. art. 6,sec.
sec.S3n,
5. and Superseded Courts.
Intendments—favoring jurisdiction, sec 53n.
§ 77. The Superior Courts shall have appellate juris
diction in such cases arising in justices' and other inferior
courts in their respective counties as may be prescribed
by law.
Const. Cal. art. 6, sec. 5; also, sec. 33n, ante.
Appeals to Superior Courts—see sees. 974-980.
§ 78. The process of the Superior Courts shall extend
to all parts of the State; provided, that all actions for the
recovery of the possession of, quieting the title to, or for
the enforcement of liens upon real estate, shall be com
menced in the county in which the real estate, or any part
thereof affected by such action or actions, is situated.
Const. Cal. art. 6, sec. 5.
Cal.9,117;
seeProcess—5
sec. 17, suhd.
andalso,
sees. see
187, Political
473, 1056, ofCode,
this sec.
Code.4175 et seq.; also,
^Real property—commencing action ; as to place of trial, see sees. 392,
§ 79. All records, books, papers, causes, actions, pro
ceedings, and appeals lodged, deposited, or pending in the
District Court or Courts, County Court, Probate Court,
Municipal Criminal Court, or Municipal Court of Appeals,
of, m, or for any county, or city and county, of the State,
abolished by the Constitution, are transferred to the Supe
rior Court of such county, or city and county, which has
the same power and jurisdiction over them as if they had
been in the first instance lodged, deposited, filed, or com
menced therein, or, in cases of appeal, appealed thereto.
Const.
§ 85. There shall be in every city and county of more
than one hundred thousand population a Justices' Court,
for which five Justices of the Peace shall be elected by
the qualified electors of such city and county, at the
general State election next preceding the expiration of
the terms of office of their predecessors. Any one of said
justices may hold court, and there may be as many ses
sions of said court at the same time as there are justices
thereof. The said justices shall choose one of their num
ber to be Presiding Justice, who may at any time be
removed and another appointed in his place by a vote of
a majority of them ; provided, that in case of the tempo
rary absence or disability of the Presiding Justice, any
one of the other justices, to be designated by the Presid
ing Justice, may act as Presiding Justice during such
absence or disability.
Const. Cal. art. 6, sec. 11.
throughout
this article,
Act, containing
act ofCompare
March 26th.
1866, organizing
San Consolidation
Francisco Justices'
Court, with
§ 86. The Supervisors of such city and county shall
appoint a Justice's Clerk, on the written nomination, and
recommendation of said justices, or a majority of them,
who shall hold office for two years, and until his succes
sor is in like manner appointed and qualified. Said Jus
tices' Clerk shall take the constitutional oath of office,
and give bond in the sum of ten thousand dollars for the
faithful discharge of the duties of his office, and in the
same manner as is or may he required of other officers of
such city and county. A new or additional bond may be
required by the Supervisors of such city and county, and
in such amount as may be fixed by said Supervisors,
whenever they may deem it necessary. The Justices'
Clerk shall have authority to appoint two deputy clerks,
for whose acts he shall be responsible on his official bond,
the said deputy clerks' to hold office during the pleasure
of said Clerk. Said Justices' Clerk and deputy shall
have authority to administer oaths, and take and certify
affidavits in any action, suit, or proceeding in said Jus
tices'
ClerksCourt.
generally—see sec. 262.
§ 87. The Sheriff of such city and county shall be exofflcio an officer of said court, and it shall be his duty to
serve or execute, or cause to be served and executed, each
and every process, writ, or order that may be issued by
said Justice's Court; provided, that a summons issued
from said court may be served and returned as provided
in section eight hundred and forty-nine of this Code ; and
that subpoenas may be issued by the Justices' Clerk, and
served as provided in section one thousand nine hundred
and eighty-seven and one thousand nine hundred and
eighty-eight of this Code. The said Sheriff may appoint, in
addition to the other deputies allowed by law, three depu
ties, whose duty it shall be to assist said Sheriff in serving
and executing the process, writs, and orders of the said
Justice's Court. Said deputies shall receive a salary of
one hundred and twenty-hve dollars per month each, pay
able monthly out of the city and county treasury, and out
of the special fee fund, after being first allowed and "au
dited as other demands are by law required to be audited
and allowed. One of said deputies shall remain in at
tendance during the sessions of said court, and at such
other times as the said court or the Presiding Justice
thereof may order and direct, for the purpose of attend
ing to such duties as may be imposed on said Sheriff or
said deputies, as herein provided,, or required by law.
The said Sheriff shall be liable on his official bond for the
faithful performance of all duties required of him or any
of his said deputies.
Sheriff generally—see sec. 262.
§ 88. The Supervisors of such city and county shall
provide, in some convenient locality in the city and
county, a suitable office or suite of offices for said Presid
ing Justice, Justices' Clerk, Deputy Clerk, and Deputy
Sheriff, and offices suitable for holding sessions of said
court, and separate from one another, for each of said
Justices of the Peace, together with attendants, furniture,
fuel, lights, and stationery sufficient for the transaction
of business ; and if they are not provided, the court may
direct the Sheriff to provide the same, and the expenses
incurred, certified by the justices to be correct, shall be
a charge against the city and county treasury, and paid
out of the general fund thereof. The said Justices, Jus
tices' Clerk, and Deputy Clerk shall be in attendance at
their respective offices, for the dispatch of official busi
ness, daily, from the hour of eight o'clock A. m. until five
o'clock P. M.
89. All actions, suits, and proceedings in such city
county whereof Justices of the Peace or Justices'
Courts have jurisdiction, except those cases of concurrent
jurisdiction that may be commenced in some other court,
Bhall be entitled, " In the Justices' Court of the City and
County of
(inserting the name of the city and
county) and commenced and prosecuted in said Justices'
Court, which shall be always open. The original process
shall be returnable, and the parties summoned required
to appear before the Presiding Justice, or before one of
the other Justices of the Peace, to be designated by the
Presiding Justice, at his office; but all complaints, an
swers, and other pleadings and papers, required to be
filed, shall be filed, and a record of all such actions, suits,
and proceedings made and kept in the Clerk's office afore
said ; and the Presiding Justice and each of the other jus
tices shall have power, jurisdiction, and authority to hear,
try, and determine any action, suit, or proceeding so com
menced, and which shall have been made returnable be
fore him, or may be assigned or transferred to him, or any
motion, application, or issue therein, (subject to the con
stitutional right of trial by jury) and to make any neces
sary and proper orders therein.
Concurrent jurisdiction—see sec. 113.
§ 90. In case of sickness or disability or absence of a
Justice of the Peace (on the return of a summons or at
the time appointed for trial) to whom a cause has been
assigned, the Presiding Justice shall reassign the cause to
some other justice, who shall proceed with the trial and
disposition of said cause in the same manner as if origin
ally assigned to him; and if, at any time before the trial
of a cause or matter returnable or pending before any of
said justices, either party shall object to having the cause
or matter tried before such justice, on the ground that
such justice is a material witness for either party, or on
the ground of the interest, prejudice, or bias of such
justice, and such objection be made to appear in the man
ner prescribed by section eight hundred and thirty-three
of this Code, the said justice shall suspend proceedings,
and the Presiding Justice, on motion and production be
fore him of the affidavit and proofs, shall order the trans
fer of the cause or matter for trial before some other jus
tice, to be designated by him. The Presiding Justice may,
in like manner, assign or transfer any contested motion,
application, or issue in law, arising in any cause return
able or pending before him or any other justice, to some
other justice; and the said justice, to whom any cause,
matter,
said assigned
motion,orapplication,
transferred,orshall
issuehave
shallpower,
be so as
jurisdic
aforetion, and authority to hear, try, and determine the same
accordingly.
§ 91. All legal process of every kind in actions, suits,
or proceedings in said Justices' Court, for the issue or ser
vice of which any fee is or may be allowed by law, shall
be issued by the said Justices' Clerk upon the order of the
Presiding Justice, or upon the order of one of the Justices
of the Peace, acting as Presiding Justice, as in this article
provided; and the fees for issuance and service of all
such process, and all other fees which are allowed by law
for any official services of justices, justices' clerks, or
sheriff, shall be exacted and paid in advance into the
hands of said Clerk, and be by him daily, or weekly, or
monthly, as the- Supervisors may require, and before his
salary shall be allowed, accounted for in detail, under
oath, and paid into the treasury of such city and county
as part of the special fee fund thereof; provided, that such
payment in advance shall not be exacted from parties
who may prove to the satisfaction of the Presiding Jus
tice that they have a good cause of action, and 'that they
are not of sufficient pecuniary ability to pay the legal
fees; and no judgment shall be rendered in any action be
fore said Justices' Court, or any of said justices, until the
fees allowed therefore, and all fees for previous services
therein, which are destined to be paid into the treasury,
shall have been paid, except in cases of poor persons, as
hereinbefore provided.
Const. Cal. art. 6, sec. 15.
Fees—change of, 14 Cal. 12; 26 Cal. 18.
§ 92. Cases which by the provisions of law are re
quired to be certified to the Superior Court, by reason of
involving the question of title or possession or real prop
erty, or the legality of any tax, impost, assessment, toll,
or municipal fine, shall be so certified by the Presiding
Justice and Justices' Clerk; and for that purpose, if such
question shall arise on the trial, while the ease is pending
before one of the other justices, such justice shall certify
the same to the Presiding Justice. All abstracts and tran
scripts of judgments and proceedings in said court, or in
any of the dockets or registers of or deposited in said
court, shall be given and certified from any of such dock
ets or registers, and signed by the Presiding Justice and
Clerk, and shall have the same force and effect as ab
stracts and transcripts of Justices of the Peace in other
cases. Appeals from judgments rendered in said court
shall be taken and perfected in the manner prescribed by
law; but the notice of appeal, and all the papers required to
be filed to perfect it, shall be filed with the Justices' Clerk.
Statements on appeal shall be settled by the justice who
tried the cause. Sureties on appeal, or on any bond, or
undertaking given in any cause or proceeding in said
court, when required to justify, may justify before any
one
Appeals—see
Transfer—to
of the justices.
Superior
sec. 974, etCourt,
seq. see sec. 838.
§ 93. In a suitable book, strongly bound, the Justices'
Clerk shall keep a permanent record of all actions, pro
ceedings, and judgments commenced, had, or rendered in
said Justices' Court, which book shall be a public record,
and be known as the " Justices' Docket," in which docket
the Clerk shall make the same entries as are provided for
in section nine hundred and eleven of this Code, and
which said docket and entries therein shall have the same
force and effect as is provided by law in reference to dock
ets of Justices of the Peace. To enable the Clerk to make
such docket, each of the justices shall keep minutes
his proceedings in every cause returnable before or as
signed or transferred to him for trial or hearing ; and upon
judgment or other disposition of a cause, such justice
shall immediately certify and return the said minutes, to
getter with all pleadings and papers in said cause, to the
Clerk's office, who shall immediately thereupon file the
same and make the proper entries under the title of the
action in the docket aforesaid.
Docket—generally, sec. 911 et seq.; effect of, sec. 912.
§ 94. The jurisdiction of the Justices' Court of such
city and county extends to the limits of the city and
county, and its process may be served in any part thereof.
Jurisdiction—character of, sees. 33n, 925.
Process—see sec. 78n.
§ 95. The Justices' Court and the Justices of the Peace
of every such city and county shall be governed in their
proceedings by the provisions of law regulating proceed
ings before Justices of the Peace, so far as such provis
ions are not altered or modified in this article, and the
same are or can be made applicable in the several cases
arising before them. The Justices' Courts of such city
and county shall have power to make rules not inconsiswith the Constitution and laws for the government of
such Justices' Court and the officers thereof: but such
rules shall not be in force xintil thirty days after their
publication; and no rules shall be made imposing any
tax or charge on any legal proceeding, or giving any al
lowance to any justice or officer for services.
Provisions—applicable, sees. 832-925.
Rules—of courts generally, sec. 129.
§ 96. It shall not be lawful for any Justice of the Peace,
Justices' Clerk, or Sheriff of any such city and county, or
any of their deputies, to. appear or advocate, or in any
manner act as attorney, counsel, or agent for any party
or person in any cause, or in relation to any demand, ac
count, or claim pending, or to be sued or prosecuted be
fore said court or justices, or either of them; nor shall any
person other than an attoriiey-at-law, duly admitted to
practice in courts of record, be permitted to appear as
attorney or agent for any party in any cause or proceed
ing before said Justice's Court, or any of said justices,
unless he produce a sufficient power of attorney to that
effect, duly executed and acknowledged before some offi
cer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds,
which power of attorney, or a copy thereof, duly certified
by one of the justices, (who on inspection of the original,
and being satisfied of its genuineness, shall certify such
copy) shall be filed among the papers in such cause or
proceeding.
Justice of the Peace—eligibility, sec. 159.
Judicial officers—disqualifications, sees. 170, 171, 172.
Ministerial officers—generally, sec. 262.
Attorneys—sec. 275 et seq.
§ 97. The Justices of the Peace, and Justices' Clerk,
and his deputy, shall receive for their official services the
following salaries, and no other or further compensation,
payable monthly, out of the city and county treasury,
and out of the special fee fund thereof, after being first
allowed and audited as other similar demands are by law
required to be allowed and audited: To the Presiding
Justice, twenty-seven hundred dollars per annum; to the
other Justices of the Peace and the Justices' Clerk, each,
twenty-four hundred dollars per annum ; to the Deputy of
the Justices' Clerk, twelve hundred dollars per annum.
§ 98. The Justices of the Peace elected in any such city
and county at the general election of eighteen hundred and
seventy-nine, or persons appointed to fill their places,- are
successors of the justices of the peace of such city and
county who held office at the time of such election; and
all records, registers,- dockets, books, papers, causes, ac
tions, and proceedings lodged, deposited, or pending be
fore the Justices' Court or any justice of any such city
and county, are transferred to the Justices' Court of such
city and county herein provided for, which shall have
the same power and jurisdiction over them as if they had
been in the first instance lodged, deposited, filed, or com
menced therein.
Transfer—see sees. 55, 79.
article' n.
§ 103. There shall be at least one Justices' Court in
each of the townships of the State, for which one Justice
of the Peace shall be elected by the qualified electors of
the township at the general State election next preceding
the expiration of the term of office of his predecessor ; pro
vided, that in any county where in the opinion of the Board
of Supervisors the public convenience requires it, the said
board may, by order, provide that two Justices' Courts
Code Civ. Froc.—6.
may be established in any township, designating the same
in such order, and in such case one Justice of the Peace
shall be elected in the manner herein provided for each
of said courts. In every city having ten thousand and
not more than twenty thousand inhabitants there shall be
one Justice of the Peace; and in every city having twenty
thousand and not more than one hundred thousand in
habitants, two Justices of the Peace, to be elected in like
manner by the electors of such cities respectively. No
person shall be eligible to the office of Justice of the
Peace in any city having over ten thousand inhabitants
who has not been admitted to practice law in a court of
record; and no Justice of the Peace shall be permitted to
practice law before any other Justice of the Peace in the
city or county in which he resides, or to have a partner
engaged in the practice of law in any Justices' Court in
such city or county. Every Justice of the Peace in any city
having over ten thousand inhabitants shall receive an an
nual salary of two thousand dollars per annum, and shall
be provided by the city authorities with a suitable cffice
in which to hold his court. All fees which are by law
chargeable for services rendered by such Justices of the
Peace in the cities aforesaid, shall be by them respectively
collected, and on the first Monday in each month every
such city Justice of the Peace shall make report, under
oath, to the City Treasurer, of the amount of fees so by
him collected, and pay the amount so reported into the
city treasury, to the credit of the general fund thereof.
Admission to bar—as qualification, sees. 156, 167.
Disabilities—sees. 170, 171, 172.
§ 104. A Justice's Court may be held at any place
selected by the justice holding the same, in the township
for which he is elected or appointed ; and such court shall
beAlways
alwaysopen—see
open forsees.
the47,transaction
73.
of business.
§ 105. A Justice of the Peace of any township may
hold the court of any other Justice of the Peace of the
same county, at his request, and while so acting shall be
vested with the power of the justice for whom he so holds
court, in which case the proper entry of the proceedings
.before the attending justice, subscribed by him, shall be
made in the docket of the justice for whom he so holds
the court.
See sec. 71.
§ 106. The civil jurisdiction of Justices' Courts ex
tends to the limits of the townships in which they are held ;
but mesne and final process of any Justices' Court in a
county
county.
See sec. may
• 94. be issued to and served in any part of the
§ 107. The Justices of the Peace elected in the town
ships at the general State election of eighteen hundred
and seventy-nine, or persons appointed to fill their places,
are successors of the justices of the peace of the town
ships, respectively, who held office at the time of such
election; and, in case the townships of any county are
hereafter changed or altered, the Board of Supervisors of
such county shall make provision as to what justices
shall be successors of the justices of townships so changed
or altered.

§ 110. The term of office of Justices of the Peace shall
be two years from the first day of January next succeed
ing their election; provided, that all Justices of the Peace
elected at the general State election of eighteen hundred
and seventy-nine shall go out of office at the end of one
year from the first day of January, eighteen hundred and
eighty.
§ 111. If a vacancy occurs in the office of a Justice of
the Peace, the Board of Supervisors of the county shall
appoint an eligible person to hold the office for the remain
der of the unexpired term.
§ 112. The Justices' Courts shall have civil jurisdic
tion:
1. In actions arising on contract for the recovery of
money only if the sum claimed, exclusive of interest,
does not amount to three hundred dollars ;
2. In actions for damages for injury to the person, or for
taking, detaining, or injuring personal property, or for
injury to real property where no issue is raised by the
verified answer of the defendant involving the title to or
possession of the same, if the damage claimed do not
amount to three hundred dollars;
3. In actions to recover the possession of personal prop
erty, if the value of such property does not amount to
three hundred dollars ;
4. In actions for a fine, penalty, or forfeiture, not
amounting to three hundred dollars, given by statute, or
the ordinance of an incorporated city and county, city, or
town, where no issue is raised by the answer involving
the legality of any tax, impost, assessment, toll, or mu
nicipal fine ;
5. In actions upon bonds or undertakings conditioned
for the payment of money, if the sum claimed does not
amount to three hundred dollars, though the penalty may
exceed that sum;
0. To take and enter judgment for the recovery of
money on the confession of a defendant, when the amount
confessed, exclusive of interest, does not amount to three
hundred dollars.
Subdivision 3. Replevin—generally, sees. 473, 509 et seq., 667.
Subdivision 4. Legality of tax, etc.—see sec. 76, subd. 3, and
notes; 24 Cal. 61. Forfeiture—statutory, 33 Cal. 212; 36 Cal. 281.
Subdivision 6. Amount confessed—8 Cal. 77.
§ 113. The Justices' Courts shall have concurrent
jurisdiction with the Superior Courts within their respect
ive townships :
1. In actions of forcible entry and detainer, where the
rental value of the property entered upon or unlawfully
detained does not exceed twenty-five dollars per month,
and the whole amount of damages claimed does not ex
ceed two hundred dollars ;
2. In actions to enforce and foreclose liens on personal
property, where neither the amount of the liens nor the
value of the property amounts to three hundred dollars.
Const. Cal. art. 6, sec. 11.
Subdivision 1. Forcible entry and detainer—sec. 1159 et seq.
Formerly—28 Cal. 118; 29 Cal. 662 ; 37 Cal. 162; 42 Cal. 324; 43 Cal. 304.
SubdivisionConst.
2. Liens—ror
Contra—before
1879, see 52 salaries
Cal. 407. and wages, sees. 1204, 1206.
§ 114. Except as in the last preceding section provided,
the jurisdiction of the Justices' Courts shall not, in any
case, trench upon the jurisdiction of the several courts of
record of the State, nor extend to any action or proceed
ing against ships, vessels, or boats, for the recovery of
seamen's wages for a voyage performed in whole or in
part without the waters of this State.
Const. Cal. art. 6, sec. 11.
Courts of Record—see sec. 34n.
Restricted jurisdiction—see sec. 112ra.
Actions against vessels—sec. 813 et seq. ; sec. 825.
§ 115. The Justices' Courts shall have jurisdiction of
the following public offenses committed within the re
spective counties in which such courts are established:
1. Petit larceny ;
2. Assault or battery not charged to have been com
mitted upon a public officer in the discharge of his duties,
or to have been committed with such intent as to render
the offense a felony ;
3. Breaches of the peace, riots, routs, affrays, commit
ting a willful injury to property, and all misdemeanors
punishable by fine not exceeding five hundred dollars, or
imprisonment not exceeding six months, or by both such
fine and imprisonment.
Criminal jurisdiction—Deserting seamen, 2 Cal. 144, 145. In general,
9 Cal. 85. Misdemeanor, 53 Cal. 412.
§ 121. Police Courts are established in incorporated
cities and counties, cities, and towns, and their organiza
tion, jurisdiction, and powers provided for in the Political
Code, part four.
34 Cal. 520.
§ 124. Sittings, public.
§ 12S. Sittings, when private.
§ 124. The sittings of every court of justice shall be
public, except as provided in the next section.
U. S. Const, art. 6, sec. 1, amdts.
§ 125. In an action for divorce, criminal conversation,
seduction, or breach of promise of marriage, the court
may direct the trial of any issue of fact joined therein to
be private, and may exclude all persons except the offi
cers of the court, the parties, their witnesses, and counsel;
provided, that in any cause the court may, in the exercise
of a sound discretion, during the examination of a wit
ness,
Divorce—generally,
exclude any sec.
or all
76, other
subd. 4.witnesses
Testimonyinkopt
the secret,
cause.Politi
cal Code, sec. 1032.
Exclusion of witnesses—sec. 2043.
1§ 128.
To preserve
Every court
and enforce
shall have
orderpower:
in its immediate pres
ence;
§ 129
2. To enforce order in the proceedings before it, or 'be
fore a person or persons empowered to conduct a judicial
investigation under its authority ;
3. To provide for the orderly conduct of proceedings be
fore it, or its officers ;
4. To compel obedience to its judgments, orders, and
process, and to the orders of a judge out of court, in an
action or proceeding pending therein;
5. To control in furtherance of justice, the conduct of its
ministerial officers, and of all other persons in any man
ner connected with a judicial proceeding before it, in
every matter appertaining thereto;
6. To compel the attendance of persons to testify in an
action or proceeding pending therein, in the cases and
manner provided in this Code;
7. To administer oaths in an action or proceeding pend
ing therein, and in all other caseS where it may be neces
sary in the exercise of its powers and duties ;
8. To amend and control its process and orders so as to
make them conformable to law and justice.
See sec. 177.
Contempt—sec. 1209; also sec. 906 et seq., and 47 Cal. 132; S3 Cal. 204;
Ex parte Conn, May 19th, 1880.
'Subdivision 3. Rules — sec. 129. Judicial officers — Incidental
powers, etc., sees. 176-179.
Subdivision 5. People r. Center, March 1st, 1880.
Subdivision 6. See sec. 1985 et seq.
Subdivision 7. See sees. 2093-2097.
Subdivision 8. See sec. 473.
§ 129. Every court of record may make rules not in
consistent with the laws of this State, for its own govern
ment and the government of its officers; but such rules
shall neither impose any tax or charge upon any legal
proceeding, nor give any allowance to any officer for
services.
Powers of courts, judges, etc.—see sees. 128, 177.
Rules, generally—in Supreme Court, waiver, Pickett u. Wallace,
February 8th, 1880: finality of decision, Reed v. Allison, April 5tn, 1880:
in
Briefs—rale
2, subd.
5; 443;
no extension
of time for,
2, subd. 6; gen
erally,
49 Cal. 686;
50 Cal.
and see Foints
ajdrule
Authorities.
Finnigan, March
13th,
clerk's Feb.
certificate
on motion
rule 4; see
Cal.1880;
27; Fred,
crick1880;
r. Tierney,
3rd. 1880;
Pickett for,
v. Wallace,
Feb.438th,
Win
der*.
Hendrick,
March
3rd,
1880;
People
v.
Center,
March
31st,
1880;
copies of moving papers, rule 4, subd. 3. On other grounds, generally,
sec.
954;
and
Reed
v.
Allison,
April
5th,
1880;
moving
papers,
rule
subd. 2 (copies of, subd. 3) ; when appeal too late, rule 4, subd. 4. Cer4,
tificate of, rule 4, subd. 4. On motion of respondent, rule 25; see sec. 055,
aud 45 Cal. 270. By stipulation, rule 26. For violation of requirements
of transcript, rule 6; generally, sec. 53/1.
Motion—length
Hearing—at
Fee—for
Examination—of
license,
instance
ofrule
applicants
notice
1,ofsubd.
either
of, for
rale
2. party,
license,
20; rule
forrule
Dismissal
25. 1.
of Appeal,
seeObjection—or
that head; generally,
exceptionsec.
to record,
1003 et seq.
rule 13; 22 Cal. 42; 26 Cal. 263; 29
Cal.
Opinions—recorded,
614; 34 Cal. 518; 35 rule
Cal. 19;
127. transmitted to court below, when, rule
21; generally, sec. 53/i.
Paper—or document, manner of printing, rule 17; removal of, rule
22; inspection of, rule 27; People c. Center, March 1st, 1880.
Points—and
Cal.
124; 24 Cal.authorities,
157, 349; 25printed;
Cal. 37; filing,
28 Cal.rule
489:2, 51subd.
Cal.4;222;generally,
Martin r.9
Squires, No. 4938, Feb. 7th, 1876, not reported; Kelly v. Morgans, Feb.
2nd, 1880 ; Shay v. Lady B. Mg. Co., Feb. 11th, 1880; Mix v. Boothe, Feb.
12th,1880.
Record—rule
tion
to Record. 10; diminution of, rale 13; see Objection or Excep
Rehearing—See Bank.
Rejection—of
Renewal—of
Settlement—of
application
applicant
bill of exceptions,
for
forlicense,
license,rale
etc.,
rale1,on
1,subd.
subd.
death
3.3. or disability of
fudge below, rule 29.
Statement
of case—accompanying points and authorities, rale 2,
subd.
4.
Substitution of representative—of party to appeal, rale 14 ; see sec.
S3«., Death, pending appeal.
Transcript—Arrangement, chronological, rule 6. Blank leaf, rule 6.
clerk below,
4; of opposing
attorney,
rale 9. rule
Costs,
onCertificate,
failure toofcertify,
rale 9;rule
of printing
transcript
and papers,
11.
Criminal causes, time limited for filing, rule 2, subd. 8j now written or
Printed, rale 5, subd. 2. Error, or defect in, rale 12; People v. Center,
March
1st, 1880;rule
HU18;v.inFinnlgan,
roles violated,
CriminalMarch
causes,13th,
see 1880.
that Filing,
head. none
Filingwhen
and
serving, time limited for, rule 2 ; In re 15th Av. Exn., Feb. 12th, 1880;
Hill v. Finnigan,
March
13th, d;1880;
Eeedfor,v. rule
Allison,
April
1880;
a
tension
of time, rule
2, subd.
copies
2, subd.
7. 5th,
Index,
alph:
betical, rule 6. Printed, how, rule 5; may be by clerk, rule 10. Rulet
violation of, see Filing, and Douglas v. Fulda, Feb. 9th, 1880. Servinr,
time for,attorney,
see Filingrule
and9.serving;
proofof.in
of, tabular
rule 2, subd.
; of 2,copies
adverse
Title, chain
form,2ride
subd.o:5
49 Cal. 193; map or survey, rule 7.
Writs—prerogative, application for, rule 28,45 Cal. 243; 47 Cal. 205 ; 5
Cal. 473; and see sec. 51; certiorari, Issuance, rule 23; 40 Cal. 483.
§ 130. Rules adopted by the Supreme Court shall tak(
effect sixty days, and rules adopted by Superior Courts
thirty days after their publication.
article nk.
Judicial Days.
§| 133.
on whichdays.
courts, etc., may be held.
134. Days
Non-judicial
jj 135. Appointments on non-judicial days.
ness
§ 133.
transacted
Courts on
of justice
any day,
mayexcept
be heldasand
provided
judicialinbusi
the
next section.
Courts—list of, sec. 33; Jurisdiction of, sec. 33n.
§ 134. No court shall be open, nor shall any judicial
business be transacted on Sunday, on the first day of
January, on the twenty-second day of February, on the
fourth day of July, on the twenty-fifth day of December,
on a day in which an election is held throughout the
State, or on a day appointed by the President of the
United States, or by the Governor of this State, for a pub
lic fast, thanksgiving, or holiday, except for the following
purposes :
1. To give, upon their request, instructions to a jury
when deliberating on their verdict ;
2. To receive a verdict, or discharge a jury;
3. For the exercise of the powers of a magistrate in a
criminal action, or in a proceeding of a criminal nature ;
provided, that the Supreme Court shall always be open for
the transaction of business ; and provided further, that in
junctions and writs of prohibition may be issued and
served on any day.
Holidays—sees. 10, 11 ; also, sees. 12, 13.
Courts always open—sees. 47, 73.
Injunctions and writs of prohibition—Issuance of, sec. 76, subd. 5.
§ 135. If any day mentioned in the last section hap
pen to be the day appointed for the holding or sitting of a
court, or to which it is adjourned, it shall be deemed ap
pointed for or adjourned to the next day.
article it.
Proceedings in Case op Absence of Judqe.
§ 139. Adjournment for absence of judge.
§ 140. Adjournment till next regular session.
§ 139. If no Judge attend on the day appointed for the
holding or sitting of a court, or on the day to which it may
have been adjourned, before noon, the Sheriff or Clerk
shall adjourn the same until the next day, at ten o'clock
a. m., and if no Judge attend on that day, before noon,
the Sheriff or Clerk shall adjourn the same until the fol
lowing day at the same hour, and so on, from day to day
for one week, unless the Judge, by written order, directs
it to be adjourned to some day certain, fixed in said
order, in which case it shall be so adjourned.
Arrival of judge—after noon, 24 Cal. 19.
Non-judicial day—sec. 135.
§ 140. If no Judge attend for one week, and no written
order be made, as provided in the last section, the Sheriff
or Clerk shall adjourn the session until the time ap
pointed for the holding of the next regular session.
Premature adjournment—19 Cal. 644.
Sessions—see sec. 73».
ARTICLE V.

§ 142. The Judge or judges authorized to hold or preside
at acourt appointed to be held at a particular place in a city
and county, county, city, or town, may, by an order filed
with the city and county or county clerk, and published
as he or they may prescribe, direct that the court be held
or continued at any other place in the city and county,
county, city, or town than that appointed, when war,
insurrection, pesfilence, or other public calamity, or the
danger thereof, or the destruction or danger of the build
ing appointed for holding the court, may render it neces
sary; and may, in the same manner, revoke the order,
and in his or their discretion, appoint another place in
the same city and county, county, city, or town, for hold
ing the court. § 143. When the court is held at a place appointed, as
provided in the last section, every person held to appear
at the court must appear at the place so appointed.
§ 144. If suitable rooms for holding the Superior
Courts and the chambers of the judges of said courts be
not provided in any city and county, or county, by the
Supervisors thereof, together with the attendants, furni
ture, fuel, lights, and stationery sufficient for the transacaction of business, the courts, or the Judge or judges
thereof, may direct the Sheriff of the city and county, or
county, to provide such rooms, attendants, furniture,
fuel, lights, and stationery; and the expenses incurred, '
certified by the Judge or judges to be correct, shall be a
charge against the city and county treasury, and paid out
of the general fund thereof.
Seals
143. Seals
150.
Seals,ofhow
Police
Superior
provided
Courts
Courts.
: private
of citiesseals,
and counties.
when used.
§ 152.
153. Clerk
Seals of courts,
court totokeep
whatseal.
documents affixed.
§ 147. Each of the following courts shall have a seal :
2nd.
1st. The Supreme
Superior Courts;
Court;
s
3rd. The Police Court of every city and county.
Seal of court—judicial notice taken of, sec. 1875, subd. 4; court com
missioner may provide official seal, sec. 259, subd. 5.
Seals—discussed, sec. 14»; seal not test, of court of record, 52 Cal.
224, and see sec. 150.
§ 148. The seal used by the Supreme Court, abolished
by the Constitution, shall be the seal of the Supreme
Court herein provided for; but the said court may direct
the Clerk of the Supreme Court to provide two duplicates
of said seal, each of which shall be considered the same
as and have the same force and effect as the original.
§ 149. The seals of the Superior Courts shall be circu
lar, not less than one and three-fourths inches in diame
ter, and having in the center any word, words, or design
adopted by the judges thereof, and the following inscrip
tion surrounding the same : "Superior Court,
, Cali
fornia," inserting the name of the county, or city and
county; provided, that the seal of any such court, which
has been adopted previous to the passage of this act,
shall be the seal of such court, until another be adopted.
See Act of March 31st, 1880, (Statutes 1880, p. 62), validating writs,
process
vided. and certificates Issued from Superior Courts before seal pro
§ 150. The Police Court of every city and county may
use any seal having upon it the inscription, "Police
Court,
," (inserting the name of the city and county).
§ 151. Courts which have not the necessary seal pro
vided, or the Judge or judges thereof, shall request the
Supervisors of their respective counties, or cities and
counties, to provide the same, and in case of their failure
to do so, may order the Sheriff to provide the same, and
the expense thereof shall be a charge against the county
or city and county treasury, and paid out of the general
fund thereof ; and until such seal be provided, the Clerk
of each court may use his private seal, whenever a seal is
required.
§ 152. The clerks of the court shall keep the seal
thereof.
§ 153. The seal of a court need not be affixed to any
proceeding therein or document, except :
L To a writ ;
2. To the certificate of probate of a will, or of the
appointment of an executor, administrator, or guardian;
3. To the authentication of a copy of a record, or
other proceeding of a court, or of an officer thereof, or of
a copy of a document on file in the office of the Clerk.
Seals, generally—sec. 14, and note.
Code Civ. Proc—t.
§ 156. No person shall be eligible to the office of Chief
or Associate Justice of the Supreme Court, unless he
shall have been a citizen of the United States and a resi
dent of this State for two years next preceding his election
or appointment, nor unless he shall have been admitted
to practice before the Supreme Court of the State.
Attorney—admitted before Supreme Court: otherwise (before Const.
Cal. 1879, art. 6, sec. 23) , see 32 Cal. 296.
§ 157. No person shall be eligible to the office of Judge
of a Superior Court unless he shall have been a citizen of
the United States and a resident of this State for two
years next preceding his election or appointment, nor un
less he shall have been admitted to practice before the
Supreme Court of the State.
See sec. 156n.
§ 158. Each Judge of a Superior Court shall reside at
the county seat of the county in which such court is held,
or within three miles thereof, and within the county, ex
cept that in the counties of STuba and Sutter the judge
may reside in either of said counties.
§ 159. Every Justice of the Peace shall reside in the
city and county, or township, in which his court is held,
and no person shall be eligible to the office of justice of
the peace unless he shall have been a citizen of the
United States and a resident of the city and county, or
county, in which he is to serve for one year next preced
ing his election or appointment.
fl60. If, by reason of sickness, absence, disability, or
er cause, a regular session of the Superior Court can
not be held in any county by the Judge or judges thereof,
or by a Superior Judge, requested by him or them to hold
such court, a certificate of that fact shall be transmitted
by the Clerk thereof to the Governor, who may there
upon request some other Superior Judge to hold such
court ; and a Judge so holding a court, at the request of
the Governor, shall be allowed his actual expenses in go
ing to, returning from, and attending upon the business
of such court, which shall be a charge against the treas
ury of the county where such court is held, and paid out
of the general fund thereof.
See set. 71.
Under Const. Cal. 1849—proper, 1 Cal. 379; 2 Cal. 207.
By consent—28 Cal. 472: 40 Cal. 468.
§ 161. The Justices of the Supreme Court and Judges
of the Superior Courts shall be ineligible to any other
office or public employment than a judicial office or em
ployment during the term for which they shall have been
elected.
Const. Cal. art. 6, sec. 18.
§ 165. The Justices of the Supreme Court, or any of
them, may, at chambers, grant all orders and writs which
are usually granted in the first instance upon an ex parte
application, except writs of mandamus, certiorari, and
prohibition; and may, in their discretion, hear applica
tions to discharge such orders and writs.
See sec. 176; also sees. 177, 178, 179.
§ 166. The Judge or Judges of a Superior Court, or
any of them, may, at chambers, grant all orders and writs
which are usually granted in the first instance upon an ex
parte application, and may, at chambers, hear and dis
pose of such orders and writs; and may also, at chambers,
appoint appraisers, receive inventories and accounts to be
filed, suspend the powers of executors, administrators, or
guardians in the cases allowed by law, grant special let
ters of administration or guardianship, approve claims
and bonds, and direct the issuance from the court of all
writs and process necessary in the exercise of their
powers in matters of probate.
See sec. 155n.
Hours, etc., for official business—Political Code, sec. 4116.
Power at chambers, generally
Motions for new trials—heard at chambers before change of 1880.
Probate matters—see sec. 1305.
partner practicing law.
§ 170. No Justice, Judge, or Justice of the Peace, shall
sit or act as such in any action or proceeding :
1. To which he is a party, or in which he is interested ;
2. When he is related to either party by consanguinity
or affinity within the third degree, computed according to
the3. rules
law;has been attorney or counsel for either
Whenof he
party in the action or proceeding.
But the provisions of this section shall not apply to the
arrangement of the calendar or the regulation of the
order of business, nor to the power of transferring the
action
Partiality—remedy
or proceeding
for,to
24 Cal.
some
34;other
28 Cal.court.
492.
Disqualification—when none, 12 Cal. 523; 18 Cal. 185; vitiates judg
ment, 24 Cal. 76.
* Change of venue—sec. 397, subd. 4 ; sec. 398.
Subdivision 1. Parry or interested—37 Cal. 190.
Subdivision 2. Belated—third degree, 23 Cal. 593; 24 CaL 76; rules
of law, Civil Code, sees. 1392, 1393.
Subdivision 3. Judge—acting as attorney, sec. 171.
§ 171. No Justice or Judge of a court of record shall
practice law in any court of this State during his contin
uance in office, nor shall any Justice of the Peace practice
law before any Justice's Court in the county where he re
sides.
§ 172. No Justice, Judge, or other elective judicial offi
cer, or Court Commissioner, shall have a partner acting as
attorney or counsel in any court of this State.
§1. 177.
To preserve
Every judicial
and enforce
officer
order
shallin have
his immediate
power: pres
ence, and in proceedings before him, when he is engaged
in the performance of official duty ;
2. To compel obedience to his lawful orders as provided
in this Code ;
3. To compel the attendance of persons to testify in a
proceeding before him, in the cases and manner provided
in this Code;
4. To administer oaths to persons in a proceeding pend
ing before him, and in all other cases where it may be
necessary in the exercise of his powers and duties.
See sec. 128.
§ 178. For the effectual exercise of the powers con
ferred by the last section, a judicial officer may punish
for contempt in the cases provided in this Code.
Contempt—generally, sec. 1209; in Justices' Courts, sec. 906.
§ 179. Each of the Justices of the Supreme Court,
and Judges of the Superior Courts, shall have power in
any part of the State, and every Justice of the Peace with
in his city and county, or county, and a Judge of a Police
or inferior court within his city and county, city, or town,
to take and certify :
1. The proof and acknowledgment of a conveyance of
teal property, or of any other written instrument;
§ 179
2. The acknowledgment of satisfaction of a judgment
of any court ;
3. An affidavit or deposition to be used in this State.
Subdivision 1. Real property—conveyance of, see sec. 1971.
Subdivision 2. Satisfaction of judgment—sec. 675.
Subdivision 3. Affidavit—sec. 2009 et icq. Deposition—see. 2019
et seq.
§ 182. If an application for an order made to a Judge
of a court in which the action or proceeding is pending, is
refused in whole or in part, or is granted conditionally, no
subsequent application for the same order shall he made
to any Court Commissioner, or any other Judge, except of
a higher court; hut nothing in this section applies to mo
tions refused for informality in the papers or proceedings
necessary to obtain the order, or to motions refused with
liberty to renew the same.
Orders and motions generally—sec. 1003 el aeq.
Orders, appealable—sec. 93.9, subd. 3.
Liberty to renew application—44 Cal. 235; 46 Cal. 285.
§ 183. A violation of the last section may be punished
as a contempt; and an order made contrary thereto may
he revoked by the Judge or Commissioner who made it, or
vacated by a Judge of the court in which the action or
proceeding
Penalty
Ex partefororder—vacating
isviolation—see
pending. orsees.
modifying,
906, 1209.sec. 937.
§ 184. No proceeding in any court of justice, in an
action or special proceeding pending therein, shall be af
fected by a vacancy in the office of all or any of the
judges
Vacancy—sees.
thereof. 42, 70.
§ 185. Every written proceeding in a court of justice
in this State shall be in the English language, and judi
cial proceedings shall be conducted, preserved, and pub
lished in no other.
Words and phrases—Interpretation of, sees. 16, 17.
§ 186. Such abbreviations as are in common use may
be used, and numbers may be expressed by figures or
numerals in the customary manner.
See sec. 185n.
§ 187. When jurisdiction is, by the Constitution or this
Code, or by any other statute, conferred on a court or
judicial officer, all the means necessary to carry it into
effect are also given ; and in the exercise of this jurisdic
tion, if the course of proceeding be not specifically pointed
out by this Code or the statute, any suitable process or
mode of proceeding may be adopted which may appear
most conformable to the spirit of this Code.
Stipulation enforcing—53 Cal. 680.
Process—authority over, 48 Cal. 133.
Suitable mode of proceeding—adopted, 50 Cal. 539, 544.
Jurors n? general.
QUALIFICATIONS AND EXEMPTIONS OF JURORS.
Of Selecting and Returning Jurors for
Record.for Courts of Record.
Of Courts
DrawingofJurors
Of Summoning Jurors for Courts of
notRecord.
of Rec
ord. to Summons,
Of
Obedience
Summoning
Jurors ofhow
Inquest.
Enforced.

X. Of Impanneling
Impanneling Grand
Trial Juries.
Juries in Courts of
Record.
XI. Of Impanneling Trial Juries in Courts not of
Record.
XII. Of Impanneling
Juries of Inquest.
§ 190. A jury is a body of men temporarily selected
from the citizens of a particular district, and invested
with power to present or indict a person for a public of
fense, or to try a question of fact.
Jurors-Hualifications and exemptlois, sees. 198-202 ; selecting and
summoning, sees. 204-238; impanneling, sees. 241-254.
§ 191. Juries are of three kinds :
1. Grand juries;
2. Trial juries;
3. Juries of inquest.
§ 192. A grand jury is a body of men, nineteen in
number, returned in pursuance of law, from the citizens
of a county, or city and county, before a court of compe
tent jurisdiction, and sworn to inquire of public offense
committed or triable within the county, or city and county.
Grand jury, impanneling — sees. 241-242. How often drawnConst. Cal. art. 1, sec. 8.
§ 193. A trial jury is a body of men returned from the
citizens of a particular district before a court or officer of
competent jurisdiction, and sworn to try and determine,
byTrial
verdict,
by jury—sees.
a question
600-619.
of fact .
Verdict—when need not be unanimous, Const. Cal. art. l.sec. 7. See
also, sec. 618.
§ 194. A trial jury shall consist of twelve men ; pro
vided, that in civil actions and cases of misdemeanor, it
may consist of twelve, or of any number less than twelve,
upon which the parties may agree in open court.
i than twelve—Const. Cal. art. 1, sec. 7 ; and see 18 Cal. 410.
§ 195. A jury of inquest is a body of men summoned
from the citizens of a particular district before the Sheriff,
Coroner, or other ministerial officer, to inquire of partic
ular facts.
article n,
QUALIFICATIONS AND EXEMPTIONS OTf JUBOB8.
§ 198. Who competent to act as juror.
§$ 200.
199. Who
competent
to act
as juror.
Who not
exempt
from jury
duty.
§ 201. Who may bo excused.
§ 202. Affidavit ot claim to exemption.
§ 198. A person is competent to act as juror if he be :
1. A citizen of the United States of the age of twentyone years, who shall have been a resident oi the State one
year, and of the county, or city and county, ninety days
before being selected and returned;
2. In possession of his natural faculties, and of ordi
nary intelligence, and not decrepit;
3. Possessed of sufficient knowledge of the English lan
guage;
4. Assessed on the last assessment-roll of the county, or
city and county, on property belonging to him.
Subdivision 1. Aliens—not competent, 17 Cal. 322 ; 51 Cal. 599.
Residence, generally—see Const. Cal. art. 2, sec. 4, art. 20, sec. 12;
162; 31 CaL 281, 650.
Elector—juror
Subdivision 3.4.formerly
32
34 Cal. had
40.
672. to be—3 Cal. 108.
§ 199. A person is not competent to act as a juror :
T. Who does not possess the qualifications prescribed
by the preceding section; or,
2. "Who has been convicted of malfeasance in office, or
any felony or other high crime.
if 200.
he beA: person is exempt from liability to act as a juror
1. A judicial, civil, or military officer of the United
States, or of this State ;
2. A person holding a county, city and county, or town
ship office ;
3. An attorney-at-law;
4. A minister of the gospel, or a priest of any denomina
tion, following his profession ;
5. A teacher in a university, college, academy, or school ;
6. A practicing physician, or druggist, actually engaged
in the business of dispensing medicines;
7. An officer, keeper, or attendant of an alms-house,
hospital, asylum, or other charitable institution;
8. Engaged in the performance of duty as officer or at
tendant of the State Prison, or of a county jail ;
9. Employed on board of a vessel navigating the waters
of this State ;
10. An express agent, mail-carrier, superintendent, em
ploye, or operator of a telegraph line doing a general tele
graph business in the State, or keeper of a public ferry or
toll-gate.
11. An active member of the National Guard of Cali
fornia, or an active member of a fire department of any
city and county, city, town, or village in this State, or an
exempt member of a duly organized fire company who
had become exempt from jury duty before the passage of
this act ;
12. Aor,superintendent,
engineer, or conductor on a rail
road;
•
13. A person drawn as a juror in any court of record in
this State, upon a regular panel, who has served as such
within a year ; but this exemption shall not extend to a
person who is summoned as a juror for the trial of a par
ticular case.
Exemption—how claimed, sec. 202.
Subdivision 11—Exempt fireman—Political Code, sees. 3339, 3340.
§ 201. A juror shall not be excused by a court for
slight or trivial cause, or for hardship or inconvenience to
his business, but only when material injury or destruc
tion to his property, or of property intrusted to him,
is threatened, or when his own health, or the sick
ness or death of a member of his family, requires his
absence.
§ 202. If a person, exempt from liability to act as a
juror, as provided in section two hundred, be summoned
as a juror, he may make and transmit his affidavit to the
clerk of the court for which he is summoned, stating his
office, occupation, or employment; and such affidavit shall
be delivered by the Clerk to the Judge of the court where
the name of such person is called, and if sufficient in sub
stance, shall be received as an excuse for non-attendance
in person. The affidavit shall then be filed by the Clerk.

§ 204. Within thirty days after the passage of this act
the Superior Court in each of the counties of this State
shall make an order designating the number of grand
jurors, and also the number of trial jurors that, in the
opinion of said court, will be required for the transaction
of the business of said court during the year endiug on
, the first day of January, eighteen hundred and eightyone ; and thereafter, in the month of January in each year,
it shall be the duty of said court to make an order desig
nating the estimated number of grand jurors, and also the
number of trial jurors, that will, in the opinion of said
court, be required for the transaction of the business of
the court, and the court and the trial of causes therein,
(luring the ensuing year. And immediately after said
order shall be made, the Board of Supervisors shall select,
as provided in the next section, a list of persons to serve
as grand jurors and trial jurors in the Superior Court of
said county during the ensuing year, or until a new list
of jurors shall be provided. In cities and counties hav
ing over one hundred thousand inhabitants such selec
tion shall be made by the Judges of the Superior Court.
§ 205. They shall proceed to select and list from those
assessed on the last preceding assessment roll of such
county, or city and county, suitable persons competent to
serve as jurors; and in making such selection they shall
take the names of such only as are not exempt from
serving, who are in possession of their natural faculties
and not infirm or decrepit, of fair character, of approved
integrity, and of sound judgment.
See sec. 198-201.
§ 206. The list to be made shall contain the number of
persons which shall have been designated by the court.
The names for such list shall be selected from the differ
ent wards or townships of the respective counties in pro
portion to the number of inhabitants therein, as nearly as
the same can be estimated by the persons making such
list.
§ 208. Certified lists of the persons selected to serve
as jurors shall at once be placed in the possession of the
County Clerk
§ 209. On receiving such lists, the County Clerk shall
file the same in his office and write down the names con
tained thereou on separate pieces of paper of the same
size and appearance, and fold each piece so as to conceal
the name thereon. He shall deposit the pieces of paper
having on them the names of the persons selected in a
box, to be called the "jury box."
§ 210. The persons whose names are so returned shall
be known as regular jurors, and shall serve for one year
and until other persons are selected and returned.
§ 211. The names of persons, whether for grand or
trial jurors, shall be drawn from the "jury box; " and if,
at the end of the year, there shall be the names of per
sons in the "jury box" who may not have been drawn
during the year to serve as jurors, the names of such per
sons may be placed upon the list of jurors drawn for the
succeeding year.
§ 214. Whenever the business of the Superior Court
shall require the atteudance of a trial jury for the trial of
criminal cases, or where a trial jury shall have been demanded in any cause or causes at issue in said court, and
no jury is in attendance, the court may make an order di
recting a trial jury to be drawn, and summoned to attend
before said court. Such order stall specify the number of
jurors to be drawn, and the time at which the jurors are
required to attend. And the court may direct that such
causes, either criminal or civil, in which a jury may be
required, or in which a jury may have been demanded,
be continued and fixed for trial when a jury shall be in
attendance.
Superior Courts—sees. 65-79.
§ 215. Immediately upon the orier mentioned in the
preceding section being made, the Cferk shall, in the pres
ence of the court, proceed to draw the jurors from the
jury box."
Presence of the court—People v. Gallagher, May 14th, 1880.
§ 219. The Clerk must conduct said drawing as follows:
1. He must shake the box containing the names of ju
rors so as to mix the slips of paper upon which such
names are written as well
ible; he must then draw
from the box as many slips ofpaper as are ordered by the
court.
2. A minute of the drawing shall be entered in the min
utes of the court, which must show the name contained
on every slip of paper so drawn from the "jury box."
3. If the name of any person is drawn from the box who
is deceased or insane, or who may have permanently re
moved from the county, or who is exempt from jury serv
ice, and the fact shall be made to appear. to the satisfac
tion of the court, the name of such person shall be omit
ted from the list, and the slip of paper containing such
name be destroyed and another juror drawn in his place,
and the fact shall be entered upon the minutes of the court.
The same proceeding shall be had as often as may be nec
essary until the whole number of jurors required are
drawn.
After the drawing shall be completed, the Clerk shall
make a copy of the list of names of the persons so drawn,
and certify the same. In his certificate he shall state the
date of the order and of the drawing, and the. number of
jurors drawn, and the time when and the place where
such jurors are required to appear. Such certificate and
list shall be delivered to the Sheriff for service.
§ 220. After a drawing of persons to serve as jurors,
the Clerk shall preserve the ballots drawn, and at the
close of the session or sessions for which the drawing was
had, he shall replace in the proper box from -which they
were taken all ballots which have on them the names of
persons who did not serve as jurors for the session or ses
sions aforesaid, and who are not exempt or incompetent.
§ 225. The Sheriff, as soon as he receives the list or
lists of jurors drawn, shall summon the persons named
therein to attend the court at the opening of the regular
session thereof, or at such session or time as the court may
order, by giving personal notice to that effect to each of
them, or by leaving a written notice to that effect at his
place of residence, with some person of proper age, and
shall return the list to the court at the opening of the reg
ular session thereof, or at such session or time as the ju
rors may be ordered to attend, specifying the names of
those who were summoned, and the manner in which each
person was notified.
Objection to juror—name not on venire, 9 Cal. 537.
Return—time for, is directory merely, 4 Cal. 275.
§ 226. Whenever jurors are not drawn or summoned
to attend any court of record or session thereof, or a suf
ficient number of jurors fail to appear, such court may
order a sufficient number to be forthwith drawn and sum
moned to attend the court, or it may, by an order entered
in its minutes, direct the Sheriff, or an elisor chosen by
the court, forthwith to summon so many good and lawful
men of the county, or city and county, to serve as jurors,
as may be required, and in either case such jurors must
be summoned in the manner provided in the preceding
section.
Special jury—4 Cal. 218; 43 Cal. 344; 46 Cal. 47; 47 Cal. 93, 134; People
r. Ah Chung, May 22nd, 1880.
Elisor—14 Cal. 123.
§ 227. "When there are not competent jurors enough
present to form a panel the court may direct the Sheriff,
or an elisor chosen by the court, to summon a sufficient
number of persons having the qualifications of jurors to
complete the panel, from the body of the county, or city
and county, and not from the bystanders ; and the Sheriff
or elisor shall summon the number so ordered accordingly
and return the names to the court.
§ 228. An elisor who shall, by order of a court of
record, summon persons to serve as jurors, shall be enti
tled to a reasonable compensation for his services, which
must be fixed by the court and paid out of the county or
city and county treasury, and out of the general fund
thereof.
§ 230. When jurors are required in any of the Justices'
Courts, or in any Police or other inferior court, they shall,
upon the order of the Justice, or any one of the justices
where there is more than one, or of the Judge thereof, be
summoned by the Sheriff, constable, marshal, or police- •
man of the jurisdiction.
§ 231. Such jurors must be summoned from the per
sons competent to serve as jurors, residents of the city
and county, township, city, or town in which such court
has jurisdiction, by notifying them orally that they are
summoned, and of the time and place at which their at
tendance is required.
§ 232. The officer summoning such jurors shall, at the
time fixed in the order for their appearance, return it to
the court with a list of the persons summoned indorsed
thereon.
§ 235. Juries of inquest shall be summoned by the
officer before whom the proceedings in which they are to
Bit are to be had, or by any Sheriff, constable, or police
man, from the persons competent to serve as jurors, resi
dent of the county, or city and county, by notifying them
orally that they are so summoned, and of the time and
place at which their attendance is required.
§ 238. Any juror summoned, who willfully and with
out reasonable excuse fails to attend, may be attached
and compelled to attend ; and the court may also impose
a line not exceeding fifty dollars, upon which execution
may issue. If the juror was not personally served, the
fine must not be imposed until upon an order to show
cause an opportunity has been offered the juror to be
heard.
§ 241. Every Superior Court, whenever, in the opinion
of the court, the public interests may require it, must
make and file with the County Clerk of their respective
counties an order directing a jury to be drawn, and desig
nating the number, which, in case of a grand jury, shall
not be less than twenty-five, nor more than thirty. In all
counties having less than three Superior Judges, there
shall be one grand jury drawn and impanneled in each
year, and in all counties having three or more Superior
Judges, there shall be two grand juries drawn and impan
neled in each year. Such order must designate the time
at which the drawing will take place. The names of such
jurors shall be drawn, the list of names certified and sum
moned as provided for drawing and summoning trial
jurors, and the names of any persons drawn, who may
not be impanneled upon the grand jury, may be again
placed in the " jury box."
Const. Cal. art. 1, sec. 8.
§ 242. When, of the persons summoned.as grand jurors
and not excused, nineteen are present, they shall consti
tute the grand jury. If more than nineteen of such per
sons are present, the Clerk shall write their names on sep
arate ballots, which he must fold so that the names can
not be seen, place them in a box, and draw out nineteen
of them, and the persons whose names are on the ballots
so drawn shall constitute the grand jury. If less than
nineteen of such persons are present, the panel may he
filled as provided in section two hundred and twenty-six
of this Code. And whenever, of the persons summoned
to complete a grand jury, more shall attend than are re
quired, the requisite number shall be obtained by writing
the names of those summoned and not excused on ballots,
depositing them in a box, and drawing as above provided.
Special grand jury—47 Cal. 135.
§ 243. Thereafter such proceedings shall be had in iinpanneling the grand jury as are prescribed in part two of
the Penal Code.
See Penal Code, sees. 894-901.
§ 246. At the opening of court on the day trial jurors
have been summoned to appear, the Clerk shall call the
names of those summoned, and the court may then hear
the excuses of jurors summoned. The Clerk shall then
write the names of the jurors present and not excused
upon separate slips or ballots of paper, and fold such slips
so that the names are concealed, and there, in the pres
ence of the court, deposit the slips or ballots in a box,
which must be kept sealed or locked until ordered by the
court to be opened.
§ 247. Whenever thereafter a civil action is called by
the court for trial, and a jury is required, such proceedings
shall be had in impanneling the trial jury as are prescribed
in part two of this Code. If the action be a criminal
one, the jury shall be impanneled as prescribed in the
Penal Code.
Civil action—see sees. 600-604.
Criminal case—see Penal Code, sees. 1055-1088.
ABTICLE XI.
OP IMPANNELING TRIAL JURIES IN CotTETS NOT OP RECORD.
§5 251.
250. Proceedings
In forming jury.
Manner of impanneling.
§ 250. At the time appointed for a jury trial in Jus
tices', Police or other inferior courts, the list of jurors
summoned must be called, and the names of those at
tending and not excused must be written upon separate
slips of paper, folded so as to conceal the names, and
placed in a box, from which the trial jury must be drawn.
§ 251. Thereafter, if the action is a criminal one, the
jury must be impanneled as provided in the Penal Code ;
if a civil one, as provided in part two of this Code.
See sec. 247.
§ 254. The manner of impanneling juries of inquest is
prescribed in the provisions of the different codes relat
ing to such inquests.
§ 258. The Superior Court of every city and county in
the State may appoint six commissioners, to be designated
each as " Court Commissioners " of such city and county ;
and the Superior Court of every other county in the State
may appoint one commissioner, to be designated as "Court
Commissioner" of such county. Such commissioners
shall he citizens of the United States, and residents of the
city and county, or county, in which they are appointed,
and hold offices during the pleasure of the courts appoint
ing
Const.
them.
Cal. art. 6, sec. 14.
§ 259. Every Court Commissioner shall have power:
1. To hear and determine ex parte motions for orders
and writs, except orders or writs of injunction in the Su
perior Court of the county, or city and county, for which
he is appointed; provided, that he shall have power to
hear and determine such motions only in the absence or
inability to act of the Judge or Judges of the Superior
Court of the county, or city and county ;
2. To take proof and report his conclusions thereon as
to any matter of fact other than an issue of fact raised by
the pleadings, upon which information is required by the
court; but any party to the proceedings may except to
such report within five days after written notice that the
same has been filed, and may argue his exceptions before
the court on giving notice of motion for that purpose ;
3. To take and approve bonds and undertakings when
ever the same may be required in actions or proceedings
in such Superior Courts, and to examine the sureties there
on when an exception has been taken to their sufficiency,
and to administer oaths and affirmations, and take affida
vits and depositions in any action or proceeding in any of
the courts of this State, or in any matter or proceeding
whatever, and to take acknowledgments and proof of
deeds, mortgages, and other instruments requiring proof
or acknowledgment for any purpose under the laws of
this State;
i. To charge and collect the same fees for the perform
ance of official acts as are npw or may hereafter be al
lowed by law to notaries public in this State for like ser
vices ; provided, that this subdivision shall not apply to
any services of such commissioner, the compensation for
which is expressly fixed by law;
5. To provide an official seal, upon which must be en
graved the words "Court Commissioner" and the name
of the county, or city and county, in which said commis
sioner resides;
6. To authenticate with his official seal his official acts.
Judicial powers—persons having, order enforced before, sec. 128,
subd. 2.
Subdivision 1. Ex parte matters—sec. 166. Injunction—before
codes, 28 Cal. 497. Extensions of time—before codes, 37 Cal. 338.
Subdivision
Reference—Harris v. S. F. S. R. Co. 41 Cal. 404;
generally,
sec. 6382.et seq.
Subdivision 3. Sureties on undertakings—see sec. 1057. Oaths
—see sec. 128, subd. 7 ; sec. 177, subd. 4. Other acts—see sec. 179, snbds.
1, 3, and notes.
Subdivision 5.4. Tees—Const.
Seals—discussed,
Cal. sec.
art. 6,14n.sec. 15.
§ 262. The modes and times of election, terms, powers,
and duties of the Attorney-General, Clerk of the Su
preme Court, Reporter of the Decisions of the Supreme
Court, clerks, sheriffs, and coroners, are prescribed in the
Political and Penal Codes.
Ministerial officers in general—see Const. 
§ 265. The Justices of the Supreme Court may appoint
two secretaries and two bailiffs, who shall be citizens of
the United States and of this State.
§ 266. The secretaries and bailiffs shall hold their
offices at the pleasure of the justices, and shall perform
Buch duties as may be required of them by the court or
any justice thereof.
§ 268. Phonographic reporters for the Supreme Court
are provided for in part three of the Political Code.
See Political Code, sees. 739, 769, 770.
§ 269. The Judge or Judges of any Superior Court in
the State may appoint a competent phonographic Reporter,
or as many such reporters as there are judges, to be known
as official Reporter or reporters of such court, and to hold
office during the pleasure of the Judge or judges appoint
ing them. Such Reporter, or any one of them, where
there are two or more, shall, at the request of either party,
or of the court in a civil action or proceeding, and on the
order of the court, the District Attorney, or the attorney
for defendant in a criminal action or proceeding, take
down in short-hand all the testimony, the objections
made, the rulings of the court, the exceptions taken, and
oral instructions given, and if directed by the court, or
requested by either party, shall, within such reasonable
time after the trial of such case as the court may desig
nate, write out the same in plain, legible long-hand, and
verify and file it with the Clerk of the Court in which the
case was tried.
Code amendments—before Const. 1879, sec. 49 Cal. 353.
Failure to file—effect of, 49 Cal. 263.
§ 270. No person shall be appointed to the position of
official Reporter of any court in this State, except upon
satisfactory evidence of good moral character, and with
out being first examined as to his competency by at least
three members of the bar practicing in said court, such
members to be designated by the Judge or judges of said
court. The committee of members of the bar so desig
nated shall, upon the request of the Judge or judges of
said court, examine any person as to his qualifications
whom said Judge or judges may wish to appoint as official
Reporter; and no person shall be appointed to such posi
tion upon whose qualifications such committee shall not
have reported favorably. The test of competency before
such committee shall be as follows: The party examined
must write in the presence of said committee at the rate
of at least one hundred and fifty words per minute, for
five consecutive minutes, upon matter not previously
written by or known to him, immediately read the same
back to the committee, and transcribe the same into long
hand writing, plainly and with accuracy. If he pass such
test satisfactorily, the committee shall furnish him with
a written certificate of that fact, signed by at least a ma
jority of the members of the committee, which certificate
shall be filed among the records of the court.
§ 271. The official Reporter of any Superior Court
shall attend to the duties of his office in person, except
when excused for good and sufficient reason by order of
the court, which order shall be entered upon the minutes
of the court. Employment in his professional capacity
elsewhere shall not be deemed a good and sufficient rea
son for such excuse. When the official Reporter of any
court has been excused in the manner provided in this
section, the court may appoint an official Reporter pro
tempore, who shall perform the same duties and receive
the same compensation during the term of his employ
ment as the official Reporter.
§ 272. The official Reporter of any court, or official
Reporter pro tempore, shall, before entering upon the du-.
ties of his office, take and subscribe the constitutional
oath of office.
§ 273. The report of the official Reporter, or official
Reporter pro tempore, of any court, duly appointed and
sworn, when written out in long-hand writing, and certi
fied as being a correct transcript of the testimony and
proceedings in the case, shall be, prima facie, a correct
statement
Report as evidence—43
of such testimony
Cal. 176; People
and proceedings.
v. Lee Fat, April 8th, 1880.
§ 274. The official Reporter shall receive, as compen
sation for his services in civil actions and proceedings,
for taking notes, a sum, to be fixed by the court, or a
Judge thereof, not exceeding ten dollars per day, and for
transcription, a gum, to be in like manner fixed, not ex
ceeding twenty cents per hundred words ; provided, that
§ 274
when said Reporter performs services in taking notes in
more than one cause on the same day, the court or Judge
thereof shall apportion the per diem allowed between the
several actions or proceedings in which such notes are
taken. The short-hand notes so taken shall, immedi
ately after the cause i» submitted, be filed with the Clerk ;
but "for the purpose of writing out said notes, the Reporter may withdraw the same for a reasonable time.
The Reporter's £eeS for tak/ng notes in civil cases shall be
paid by the party in whosQiavp/ jiRlgment is rendered,
and shall be taxed up byrthe Cieik of the court as costs
against the party agains^white\Jynlgmeut is rendered.
In case of the failure of. a ium to agree, the plaintifff
must pay the Reporter's feesyfoif time employed, and for
transcription ordered.rjy plaintUf, which have accrued up
to the time Of the dpjyrarge of ^he jury. In cases where
a transcript has bee* ordered by the court, the fees for
transcription must 'be paid by the respective parties to
the action, in equal proportions, or by such of them and
in such proportions! as thy court, in its discretion, may
order? and no verdict or judgment shall be entered up,
except the court shall otherwise order, until the Re
porter's fees are paid, or a sum equivalent thereto depos
ited with the Clerk of the court therefore. In no case
shall a transcript be paid for, unless ordered either by the
plaintifff or defendant, or by the court; nor shall the
Reporter be required in any civil case to transcribe his
notes until the fees therefore be tendered him, or a suffi
cient amount to cover the same be deposited in court for
that purpose. The party ordering the Reporter to tran
scribe any portion of the testimony or proceedings must
pay the fees of the Reporter therefore. In criminal cases,
when the testimony has been taken down or transcribed
upon the order of the court, the fees of the Reporter
shall be certified by the court, and paid out of the treas
ury of the county, or city and county, in which the case
is tried, upon the order of the court.
§ 275. Any citizen or person resident of this State, who
has bona fide declared his or her intention to become a
citizen in the manner required by law, of the age of
twenty-one years, of good moral character, and who pos
sesses the necessary qualifications of learning and abil
ity, is entitled to admission as attorney and counsellor in
all the courts of this State. All persons are attorneys of
the Supreme Court who were on the first day of January,
eighteen hundred and eighty, entitled to practice in the
court superseded thereby.
Declaration of intention—22 Cal. 85.
Women as law students—Foltz v. Hoge, December 20th, 1879.
Admission of attorneys—see sections following this.
Judges must be licensed attorneys—sees. 156, 157.
Judicial and ministerial officers—not to practice, see Political
§ 276. Every applicant for admissibn as an attorney
and counsellor must produce satisfactory testimonials of
good moral character, and undergo a strict examination
in open court as to his qualifications by the Justices of the
Supreme Court, or by the justices sitting and holding one
of the departments thereof; provided, that.the several Su
perior Courts of this State may admit applicants to prac
tice as attorneys and counsellors in their respective courts,
but not elsewhere, upon strict examination in open court,
and not otherwise, and upon satisfactory testimonials of
good moral character.
Examination of candidates—sec. 129; Supreme Ct. rule 1.
§ 277. If, upon examination, he is found qualified, the
Supreme Court, or department thereof before which he
is examined, shall admit him as an attorney and coun
sellor in all the courts of this State, and shall direct an
order to be entered to that effect upon its records, and
that a certificate of such record be given to him by the
Clerk of the court, which certificate shall be his license.
Expulsion—by lower court, 1 Cal. 190; but see sec. 287.
§ 278. Every person, on his admission, must take an
oath to support the Constitution of the United States and
the Constitution of the State' of California, and to faith
fully discharge the duties of an attorney and counsellor at
law to the best of his knowledge and ability. A certifi
cate of such oath must be indorsed upon the license.
22 Cal. 329; 24 Cal. 244.
Duties—see sec. 282.
§ 279. Every citizen of the United States, or person
resident of this State, who has, bona fide, declared his
intention to become a citizen in the manner required by
law, who has been admitted to practice law in the highest
court of a sister State, or of a foreign country, where the
common law of England constitutes the basis of jurispru
dence, may be admitted to practice in the courts of this
State, upon the production of his or her license, and sat
isfactory evidence of good moral character; but the court
may examine the applicant as to his or her qualifications.
Personal appearance—necessary, 44 Cal. 554.
"State" and " United States"—denned, sec. 17, subd. 7.
§ 280. Every Clerk shall keep a roll of attorneys and
counsellors admitted to practice by the court of which he
is clerk, which roll must be signed by the person admit
ted before he receives his license.
Attorneys of the Supreme Court—sec. 275.
§ 281. If any person shall practice law in any court,
except a Justice's Court or Police Court, without having
received a license as attorney and counsellor, he shall lie
guilty of a contempt of court.
Contempt—sec. 1209 et seq.
Justices' Court practitioners—sec. 96.
§ 282. It is the duty of an attorney and counsellor :
1. To support the Constitution and laws of the United.
States and of this State ;
2. To maintain the respect due to the courts of jus
tice and judicial officers;
3. To counsel or maintain such actions, proceedings,
or defenses only as appear to him legal or just, except
the defense of a person charged with a public offense ;
4. To employ, for the purpose of maintaining the
causes confided to him, such means only as are consistent
with truth, and never seek to mislead the judge or any
judicial officer by an artifice or false statement of fact or
law;
5. To maintain inviolate the confidence, and at every
peril to himself, to preserve the secrets of his client;
6. fo abstain from all offensive personality, and to
advance no fact prejudicial to the honor or reputation of
a party or witness, unless required by the justice of the
cause with which he is charged;
7. Not to encourage either the commencement or the
continuance of an action or proceeding from any 'corrupt
motive of passion or interest ;
8. Never to reject, for any consideration personal to
himself, the cause of the defenseless or the oppressed.

Subdivision 1. Oath—sec. 278.
Subdivision 3. Offender, public—defense of. See Penal Code,
sec. 987 ; see also, subd. 8.
SUBDIVISIONS
7-41 March
Cal. 423;22nd,
45 Cal.
Cal.
372; Walker v.3,Felt,

§ 283. An attorney and counsellor shall have authority :
f. To bind his client in any of the steps of an action or
proceeding by his agreement filed with the Clerk, or en
tered upon the minutes of the court, and not otherwise;
2. To receive money claimed by his client in an action
or proceeding during the pendency thereof, or after judg
ment, unless a revocation of his authority is filed, and
upon the payment thereof, and not otherwise, to dis
charge the claim or acknowledge satisfaction of the judg
u. 308,441,447 ; 53 Cal. 281,735; Preston p. Eureka A. S. Co. Feb,
1880 ; Conniff ». Kahn, March 23rd, 1880.
SOBDIvisioir 2. Compromise—50 Cal. 43; 53 CaL 28. '
Satisfaction—entry of, sec. 675; 48 Cal. 632.
§ 284. The attorney in an action or special proceeding
may be changed at any time before or after judgment or
final determination, as follows :
1. Upon consent of both client and attorney, filed with
the Clerk, or entered upon the minutes;
2. Upon the order of the court, upon the application of
either client or attorney, after notice from one to the
other.
16 Cal. 436; 33 Cal. 208.
Subdivision 2. Associating attorney—63 Cal. 221.
§ 285. When an attorney is changed, as provided in
the last section, written notice of the change and of the
substitution of a new attorney, or of the appearance of
the party in person, must be given to the adverse party.
Until then he must recognize the former attorney.
55; 221
16 Cal.
436; Commissioners
Young
er,Attorney
29 Cal. 149;of 33record—6
Cal. 208; Cal.
53 Cal.
; McDonald
t;. McConky,v.Feb.
6tfi,
1880; Preston v. Eureka A. S. Co. Feb. 23rd, 1880.
§ 286. When an attorney dies, or is removed or sus
pended, or ceases to act as such, a party to an action, for
whom he was acting as attorney, must, before any further
proceedings are had against him, be required by the ad
verse party, by written notice, to appoint another attor
ney or to appear in person.
§ 287. An attorney and counsellor may be removei
suspended by the Supreme Court, or any departm
thereof, or by any Superior Court of the State, for eit
of the following causes, arising after his admission
practice :
1. His conviction of a felony or misdemeanor involv
moral turpitude, in which case the record of convict
shall be conclusive evidence;
2. Willful disobedience or violation of an order of
court requiring him to do or forbear an act conned
with, or in the course of his profession, which he ought
good faith to do or forbear, and any violation of the a
taken by him, or of his duties as such attorney and coi
sellor;
ing3. asCorruptly
attorneyorforwillfully
a party to
andanwithout
action or
authority
proceeding;
appe
sellor
sellor.
4. Lending
by another
his name
persontowho
be used
is notasanattorney
attorneyand
and coi
In all cases where an attorney is removed or suspenc
by a Superior Court, the judgment or' order of removal
suspension may be reviewed on appeal by the Supre:
Court.
Restoration—1 Cal. 143, 190; 16 CaL 439.
Infamons—not to be adjudged, 20 Cal. 427.
§ 288. In case of the conviction of an attorney
counsellor of a felony or misdemeanor, involving mo;
tion
turpitude,
is had the
shall,
Clerk
within
of the
thirty
court
days
in thereafter,
which suchtransn
conv
to
viction.
the Supreme Court a certified copy of the record of cc
ney
§ 289.
and counsellor,
The proceedings
under the
to remove
first subdivision
or suspendofansecti
attc
two hundred and eighty-seven, must be taken by t
court on the receipt of a certified copy of the record
conviction. The proceedinga under the second, third,
fourth subdivisions of section two hundred and eight
seven may be taken by the court for the matters with
its knowledge, or may be taken upon the information
another.
§ 290. If the proceedings are upon the information <
another, the accusation must be in writing;
§ 291. The accusation must state the matters chargei
and be verified by the oath of some person to the effei
that the charges therein contained are true.
292. Upon receiving the accusation, the court shall
ke an order requiring the accused to appear and an:r it at a specified time, and shall cause a copy of the
er and of the accusation to be served upon the accused
east five days before the day appointed in the order.
i 293. The accused must appear at the time appointed
the order and answer the accusations, unless for . suf1ent cause the court assign another day for that pur
se. If he do not appear, the court may proceed and
termine the accusation in his absence.
i 294. The accused may answer to the accusation
her by objecting to its sufficiency or denying it.
I 295. If he object to the sufficiency of the accusation,
e objection must be in writing, but need not be in any
peine form, it being sufficient if it presents intelligibly
e grounds of the objection. If he deny the accusation,
treddenial
uponmay
the minutes.
be oral and. without oath, and must be en§ 296. If an objection to the sufficiency of the accusain be not sustained, the accused must answer within
ch time as may be designated by the court.
§ 297. If the accused plead guilty, or refuse to answer
oval
e accusation,
or suspension.
the courtIfshall
he deny
proceed
thetomatters
judgment
charged,
of ree court shall, at such time as it may appoint, proceed
§ 298. The court may, in its discretion, order a referoce to a committee to take depositions in the matter.
§ 299. Upon conviction, in cases arising under the first
ubdivision of section two hundred and eighty-seven, the
idgment of the court must be that the name of the party
hall be stricken from the roll of attorneys and counsel
ors of the court, and that he be precluded from practicing
8 such attorney or counsellor in all the courts of this
Itate; and upon conviction in cases under the other sublivisions of that section, the judgment of the court may
le according to the gravity of the offense charged: de
pfivation of the right to practice as attorney or counsellor
n the courts of this State permanently, or for a limited
period.
Code Civ. Pnoc.—lO.
§ 304. The appointment, powers, and duties of re
ceivers, executors, administrators, and guardians, are
provided for and prescribed in parts two and three of
this Code.
Receivers—sees. 564-569.
Executors and administrators—sees. 1349-1440, 1581-1591: also, sees.
1612-1653, and 1726-1743.
Guardians—sees. 1747-1809.
Sec. 2. All acts and parts of acts in conflict with the
provisions of this act are hereby repealed.
Sec. 3. This act shall take effect immediately.
, President of the Senate.
, Speaker of the Assembly.
Approved,
, a. d. 1880.
'—, Governor.
T
§ 307. There is in this State but one form of civil ac
tions for the enforcement or protection of private rights
and the redress or prevention of private wrongs.
§ 308. In such action, the party complaining is known
as the plaintifff, and the adverse party as the defendant.
§ 309. A question of fact not put in issue by the plead
ings may be tried by a jury, upon an order for the trial,
stating distinctly and plainly the question of fact to be
tried; and such order is the only authority necessary for
a trial.
Equity cases—issues in, sec. 592.
§312.
The time of commencing actions for the recov
ery of real property. § 315-328.
The the
timerecovery
of commencing
of real actions
property.
other§ than
335-315.
for
General provisions as to tne time of commenc
ing actions. § 350-362.
§ 312. Civil actions can only be commenced within
the periods prescribed in this title, after the cause of ac
tion shall have accrued, except .where, in special cases, a
different limitation is prescribed by statute.

March 12th, 1880.
Periods—See Limitations qenebaliy, infra.

LIMITATIONS GENERALLY.
Absence from State—sec. 351, and note. Account—current, see su
pra. Accruing of cause of action—see supra. Acknowledgment—
instrued,
writing,
Action—commencement
of, seeAlien
supra;enemy—sec.
word con
sec.sec.
363. 360.Adverse
possession—sec. 321n.
§ 315. The people of this State will not sue any person
for or in respect to any real property, or the issues or
profits thereof, by reason of the right or title of the peo
ple to the same, Unless—
1. Such right or title shall have accrued within ten
years before any action or other proceeding for the same
is commenced; or,
2. The people, or those from whom they claim, shall
have received the rents and profits of such real property,
or of some part thereof, within the space of ten years.
People as party—to suit, generally, sec. 367n.
Title by occupancy—Civil Code, sec. 1007.
Public—statute does not run against, 18 Cal. 619; 24 Cal. 257; 40 Cal.
34; 53 Cal. 437. See also, 0. S. Government, under Limitations
GENERALLY, Sec. 312n.
Accruing of cause of action—sec. 312n.
§ 316. Ho action can be brought for or in respect to
real property by any person claiming under letters patent
or grants from this State, unless the same might have
been commenced by the people as herein specified, in case
such patent had not been issued or grant made.
§ 317. "When letters patent or grants of real property
issued or made by the people of this State, are declared
void by the determination of a competent court, an action
for the recovery of the property so conveyed may be
brought, either by the people of the State, or by any sub
sequent patentee or grantee of the property, his heirs or
assigns, within five years after such determination, but
not after that period. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
§ 318. No action for the recovery of real property, or
for the recovery of the possession thereof, can be main
tained, unless it appear that the plaintifff, his ancestor,
predecessor or grantor, was seized or possessed of the
property in question, within live years before the com
mencement or the action.
Generally—15 Cal. 284 ; 25 Cal. 593.
Pleading—see
Plaintiff's
Adverse
Recovery
"Action "-defined,
possession—by
ofpredecessor—28
real
Limitations
property—13
sec. 363.
grantor,
Cal.generally,
Cal.
18050; 522.
30Cal.Cal.485;229.
sec.
by312n,
wife,and
49 Cal.
33 CaL
103;511.
In
general, sec. 321.
Five years—within, 18 Cal. 434; 33 Cal. 511.
Probate court sales—sees. 1573, 1806.
Trespass upon realty—sec. 338.
Possession—presumption from, sec. 1963, subd. 11.
§ 319. No cause of action, or defense to an action,
arising out of the title to real property, or to rents or
profits out of the same, can be effectual, unless it appear
that the person prosecuting the action, or making the de
fense, or under whose title the action is prosecuted or
the defense is made, or the ancestor, predecessor or
grantor of such person, was seized or possessed of the
premises in question within five years before the com
mencement of the act in respect to which such action is
prosecuted or defense made.
Construction of section—24 Cal. 303.
Rents or profits—29 Cal. 330.
" Effectual "—24 Cal. 304.
" Commencement of the act "—24 Cal. 304.
§ 320. No entry upon real estate is deemed sufficient
or valid as a claim, unless an action be commenced there
upon within one year after making such entry, and with
in five years from the time when the right to make it de
scended or accrued.
§ 321. In every action for the recovery of real prop
erty, or the possession thereof, the person establishing a
legal title to the property is presumed to have been pos
sessed thereof within the time required by law, and the
occupation of the property by any other person is deemed
to have been under and in subordination to the legal title,
unless it appear that the property has been held and pos
sessed adversely to such legal title, for five years before
the commencement of the action.

Title conferred—by adverse holding, 34 Cal. 381; 51 Cal. 55.
Forcible entry—one year, sec. 1172.
§ 322. When it appears that the occupant, or those un
der whom he claims, entered into the possession of the
property under claim of title, exclusive of other right,
founding such claim upon a written instrument, as being
a conveyance of the property in question, or upon the
decree or judgment of a competent court, and that there
has been a continued occupation and possession of the
property included in such instrument, decree, or judg
ment, or of some part of the property, under such claim,
for five years, the property so included is deemed to have
been held adversely, except that when it consists of a
tract divided into lots, the possession of one lot is not
deemed
Generally—see
a possession
Adverse
of Possession,
any other lot
sec.of321n.
the same tract.
sec.Deed
323n.with specific boundaries—see Constructive Possession,
§ 323. For the purpose of constituting an adverse pos
session by any person claiming a title founded upon a
written instrument, or a judgment or decree, land is
deemed to have been possessed and occupied in the fol
lowing cases :
j. Where it has been usually cultivated or improved;
2. Where it has been protected by a substantial enclosure;
3. Where, although not inclosed, it has been used for
the supply of fuel, or of fencing timber for the purposes
of husbandry, or for pasturage, or for the ordinary use of
the occupant;
4. Where a known farm or single lot has been partly
improved, the portion of such farm or lot that may have
been left not cleared, or not inclosed according to the
usual course and custom of the adjoining country, shall
be deemed to have been occupied for the same length of
time as the part improved and cultivated.
Constructive possession—23 
§ 324. Where it appears that there has been an actual
continued occupation of land, under a claim of title, ex
clusive of any other right, but not founded upon a writ
ten instrument, judgment, or decree, the land so actually
occupied, and no other, is deemed to have been held ad
versely.
Generally—45 Cal. 559.
Prescription—title by, Civil Code, sec. 1007.
§ 325. For the purpose of constituting an adverse
possession by a person claiming title, not founded upon a
written instrument, judgment, or decree, land is deemed
to have been possessed and occupied in the following
cases only :
First—Where it has been protected by a substantial in
closure.
Second—Where it has been usually cultivated or im
proved.
Provided, however, that in no case shall adverse posses
sion be considered established under the provision of any
section or sections of this Code, unless it shall be shown
that the land has been occupied and claimed for the
period of rive years continuously, and the party or per
sons, their predecessors and grantors, have paid all {he
taxes, State, county, or municipal, which have been
levied and assessed upon such land. [Approved April
1st, 1878.]
SO Cal. 408; 32 Cal. 15; Thompson v. Felton, May 7th, 1880.
§ 326. When the relation of landlord and tenant has
existed between any persons, the possession of the tenant
is deemed the possession of the landlord until the expira
tion of live years from the termination of the tenancy, or
where there has been no written lease, until the expira
tion of five years from the time of the last payment of
rent , notwithstanding that such tenant may have acquire.
another title, or may have claimed to hold adversely to
his landlord. But such presumption cannot be made
after the periods herein limited.
Construction of section—14 Cal. 388.
Tenant denying landlord's title—sec. 1962, subd. 4.
Generally—33 Cal. 237; 48 Cal. 614.
§ 327. The right of a person to the possession of real
property is not impaired or affected by a descent cast in
consequence of the death of a person in possession of such
property.
§ 328. If a person entitled to commence an action for
the recovery of real property, or for the recovery of the
possession thereof, or to make any entry or defense
founded on the title, to real property, or to rents or ser
vices out of the same, be, at the time such title first de
scends or accrues, either—
1. Within the age of majority; or,
2. Insane; or,
3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution
upon conviction of a criminal offense, for a term less than
for life; or,
4. A married woman, and her husband be a necessary
party with her in commencing such action or making such
entry or defense ;
The time during which such disability continues is not
deemed any portion of the time in this chapter limited
for the commencement of such action, or the making of
such entry or defense, but such action may be commenced,
or entry or defense made, within the period of five years
after such disability shall cease, or after the death of the
person entitled who shall die under such disability; but
such action shall not be commenced, or entry or defense
made, after that period.
Disability—see Limitations qenebahy, sec. 312n.
Ootenant's rights—43 Cal. 66.
Infant—SI Cal. 186.
Married woman—42 Cal. 408; husband as party, sec. 370.
§ 335. The periods prescribed for the commencement
of actions other than for the recovery of real property,
are§ as
follows
: five years :
336.
Within
t
1. An action upon a judgment or decree of any court of
the United States, or of any State within the United
States ;
2. An action for mesne profits of real property. [In
effect July 1st, 1874.]
 Trenouth v. Farrington,
March 3rd, 1880; Wheeler v. Bolton, March 13th, 1880.
Foreign liability—sec. 361.
§ 337. Within four years :
An action upon any contract, obligation, or liability,
founded upon au instrument in writing executed in this
State. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Instrument in writing—14 Cal. 137; 24 Cal. 322.
Promissory note— 1880:
Grant v. Burr, March 12th, 1880.
Mortgage notes—see Mortgages, under Limitations gener
ally, sec. 312n.; also, 53 Cal. 375.

Four years—limitation' where no other provision, sec. 343.
§ 338. Within three years :
1. An action upon a liability created by statute, other
than a penalty or forfeiture;
2. An action for trespass upon real property;
3. An action for taking, detaining, or injuring any goods
or chattels, including actions for the specilic recovery of
personal property;
4. An action for relief on the ground of fraud or mis
take. The cause of action in such case not to be deemed
to have accrued until the discovery, by the aggrieved
party, of .the facts constituting the fraud or mistake.
Statutory liability—18 Cal. 176; 39 Cal. G64; 45 Cal. 12, 611.
Trespass upon real property—29 Cal. 330 ; 31 Cal. 154,487.
Fraud or mistake—8 Cal. 44!); 9 Cal. 421: 13 Cal. 552; 18 Cal. 225; 27

1573.
Three years—probate matters, sees. 1573, 1574, 1S05, 1806; against
corporation directors or stockholders, sec. 359.
§ 339. Within two years:
1. An action upon a contract, obligation, or liability, not
founded upon an instrument of writing, or founded upon
au instrument of writing executed out of the State;
2. An action against a sheriff, coroner, or constable,
upon a liability incurred by the doing of an act in his
official capacity, and in virtue of his office, or by the omis
sion of an official duty, including the non-payment of
money collected upon au execution. But this subdivision
does not apply to an action for an escape;
3. An action to recover damages for the death of Cne
caused by the wrongful act or neglect of another. [In
effect July 1st, 1874.]
Design of section—50 Cal. 646.

Continuous employment—47 Cal. 162.
Extra-State instrument—I Cal. 287.
Action against sheriff-see Sharp v. Miller, March 18th, 1880.
Injury causing death—50 Cal. 612.
Mortgage debt—see Mortgages, under Limitations gener
ally, sec. 312n.
§ 340. "Within one year:
1. An action upon a statute for a penalty or forfeiture,
when the action is given to an individual, or to an indi
vidual and the State, except when the statute imposing it
prescribes a different limitation;
2. An action upon a statute, or upon an undertaking in
a criminal action, for a forfeiture or penalty to the people
of the State;
Code Civ. Pkoc—11.
3. An action for libel, slander, assault, battery, false
imprisonment, or seduction;
4. An action against a sheriff or other officer for the
escape of a prisoner arrested or imprisoned on civil proc
ess;
5. An action against a municipal corporation for dam
ages or injuries to property caused by a mob or riot. [In
effect January 27th, 1876.]
One year—forcible entry, adverse holding, sec. 1172; against dece
dent's representatives, sec. 353; after reversal on appeal, sec. 355; entry
upon real property, sec. 320.
§ 341. Within six months :
An action against an officer, or officer defacto:
1. To recover any goods, wares, merchandise, or other
property, seized by any such officer in his official capacity
as tax collector, or to recover the price or value of any
goods, wares, merchandise, or other personal property so
seized, or for damages for the seizure, detention, sale of,
or injury to any goods, wares, merchandise, or other per
sonal property seized, or for damages done to any person
or property in making any such seizure ;
2. To recover stock sold for a delinquent assessment, as
provided in sec. 347 of the .Civil Code. [In effect July 1st,
1874.]
Protested tax suit—50 Cal. 303.
Stock sold for assessment—Civil Code, sec. 347.
Six months—against county, sec. 342; by decedent's representa
tives, sec. 353.
§ 342. Actions on claims against a county, which, have
been rejected by the board of supervisors, must be com
menced within six months after the first rejection thereof
by such board.
• § 343. An action for relief net hereinbefore provided
for, must be commenced within four years after the cause
of action shall have accrued.
Relief not provided for—17 Cal. 586; 52 Cal. 42; Wheeler v. Bolton,
March 13th, 1880.
Equity, stale demands—see Accbuinq oif Cause of Action,
sec. 312n.
Relief, generally—sec. 580n.
Bank deposits—no limitation, sec. 348.
§ 344. In an action brought to recover a balance due
upon a mutual, open, and current account, where there
have been reciprocal demands between the parties, the
cause of action is deemed.to have accrued from the time
of the last item proved in 'the account on either side.
Mutual account—17 Cal. 351 ; 30 Cal. 126, 134 ; 35 Cal. 122 ; 51 Cal. 531.
Deemed to have accrued—see sec. 312».
§ 345. The limitations prescribed in this chapter apply
to actions brought in the name of the State, or for the
benefit of the State, in the same manner as to actions by
private parties.
Action by people—sec. 315.
§ 346. An action to redeem a mortgage of real prop
erty with or without an account of rents and profits, may
be brought by the mortgagor, or those claiming UDder
him, against the mortgagee in possession, or those claim
ing under him, unless he or they have continuously main
tained an adverse possession of the mortgaged premises
for five years after breach of some condition of the mort
gage.
Mortgage, redemption—see Limitations generally, sec. 312n.
Redemption, generally—sec. 701, et seq.
§ 347. If there is more than one such, mortgagor, or
more than one person claiming under a mortgagor, some
of whom are not entitled to maintain such an action, un
der the provisions of this chapter, any one of them, who
is entitled to maintain such an action, may redeem therein
a divided or undivided part of the mortgaged premises,
according as his interest may appear, and have an ac
counting for a part of the rents and profits, proportionate
to his interest in the mortgaged premises, on payment of
a part of the mortgage money, bearing the same propor
tion to the whole of such money as the value of his di
vided or undivided interest in the premises bears to the
whole of such premises.
See notes to last section.
§ 348. To actions brought to recover money or other
property deposited with any bank, banker, trust com
pany, or savings and loan society, there is no limitation.
[InDeposits,
effect July
generally—see
1st, 1874.]
Entrusted Property, sec. 312n.
§ 350. An action is commenced, within the meaning of
this title, when the complaint is filed.
Action commenced—19 Cal. 577 ; 21 Cal. 351, 367 ; 34 Cal. 166; 35 Cal.
122.
Amended complaint—not referred to, 50 Cal. 525 ; 53 Cal. 102.
Issuance of summons—no lontrer commencement of action, in gen
eral, see sees. 406, 839; formerly, 19 Cal. 577.
§ 351. If, when the cause of action accrues against a
person, he is out of the State, the action may be com
menced within the term herein limited, after his return to
the State, and if, after the cause of action accrues, he de
parts from the State, the time of his absence is not part of
the time limited for the commencement of the action.
When cause of action accrues—sec. 3I2n.
Absence—must be alleged, 51 Cal. 264.
Return—10 Cal. S3.
Successive absences—44 Cal. 280.
Foreign corporation—50 Cal. 258.
Generally—6 Cal. 430; 43 Cal. 185.
§ 352. If a person entitled to bring an action, men
tioned in chapter three of this title, be at the time the
cause of action accrued, either—
1. Within the age of majority; or,
2. Insane; or,
3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution un
der the sentence of a criminal court for a term less than
for life; or,
4. A married woman, and her husband be a necessary
party with her in commencing such action;
The time of such disability is not a nart of the time
limited for the commencement of the action.
Disability—sees. 312n, 1805, 1806.
Infant—sec. 328n.
Insane person—27 Cal. 384.
Married woman—sec. 328n, 36 Cal. 447; 50 Cal. 303.
§ 353. If a person entitled to bring an action die before
the expiration of the time limited for the commencement
thereof, and the cause of action survive, an action may be
commenced by his representatives, after the expiration bf
that time, and within six months from his death. If a
person against whom an action may be brought, die be
fore the expiration of the time limited for the commence
ment thereof, and the cause of action survive, an action
may be commenced against his representatives after the
expiration of that time, and within one year after the issu
ing of letters testamentary or of administration.
Substitution of parties—sec. 385.
Two clauses of section—distinguished, 35 Cal. 645.
Action by representatives—34 Cal. 568; 35 Cal. 634.
646.Actions against representatives—10 Cal: 386; 19 Cal. 85, 97 ; 50 Cal.
Shortening limitation—not designed, 19 Cal. 86; 50 Cal. 646.
Mortgage notes—various, which barred, 53 Cal. 375.
§ 354. When a person is an alien subject, or citizen of
a country at war with the United States, the time of the
continuance of the war is not part of the period limited
for the commencement of the action.
§ 355. If an action is commenced within the time pre
scfibed therefore, and a judgment therein for the plaintifff
be reversed on appeal, the plaintifff, or if he die and
the cause of action survive, his representatives, may
commence a new action within one year after the re
versal.
§ 356. When the commencement of an action is stayed
by injunction or statutory prohibition, the time of the con
tinuance of the injunction or prohibition is not part of the
time limited for the commencement of the action.
Statutory prohibition—bankruptcy, see Hoff c. Funkenstein, March
1st, 1880.
§ 357. No person can avail himself of a disability, un
less it existed when his right of action accrued.
Accruing of cause of action—sec. 312n.
§ 358. When two or more disabilities coexist at the
time the right of action accrues, the limitation does not
attach until they are removed.
See note to last section.
§ 359. This title does not affect actions against direct
ors or stockholders of a corporation, to recover a penalty
or forfeiture imposed, or to enforce a, liability created by
law; but such actions must be brought within three years
after the discovery by the
ieved party of the facts
upon which the penalty or forfeiture attached, or the lia
bility was created.
Corporation stockholders—15 Cal. 110.
§ 360. No acknowledgment or promise is sufficient evi
dence of a new or continuing contract, by which to take
the case out of the operation of this title, unless the same
is contained in some writing, signed by the party to be
charged thereby.
Part payment—not enough, 
Renewal of contract—generally, 9 Cal. 89; 25 Cal. 292 ; 39 Cal. 434.
Loan barred—51 Cal. 215.
Renewalof note—does not renew mortgage; Wells t). Harter, March
19th, 1880.
§ 361. When a cause of action has arisen in another
State, or in a foreign country, and by the laws thereof an
action thereon cannot there be maintained against a per
son by reason of the lapse of time, an action thereon stall
not be maintained against him in this State, except in
favor of one who has been a citizen of this State, and who
has held the cause of action from the time it accrued.
Other States—6 Cal. 430.
§ 362. This title does not extend to actions already
commenced^ nor to cases where the time prescribed in any
existing statute for acquiring a right or barring a remedy
has fully run, but the laws now in force are applicable to
such actions and cases, and are repealed subject to the
provisions of this section.
Repeal of Limitations—see sees. 9, 18.
§ 363. The word " action," as used in this title, is to be
construed, whenever it is necessary so to do, as including
a special proceeding of a civil nature.
§ 367. Every action must be prosecuted in the name
of the real party in interest, except as provided in section
three hundred and sixty-nine of this Code, [In effect
April 15th, 1880.]
REAL PARTY IN INTEREST.
Assignees—sec. 368.
Beneficiary—37 Cal. 537; 46 Cal. 269; 49 Cal. 518.
Bonds-7 Cal. 551; 10 Cal. 347; 13 Cal. 588; 15 Cal. 9; 28 Cal. 540; 29
Cal. 194.
C
Cotenants—sec. 381.
Political Code, sees. 4000-4003; Penal Code, sec. 1570;
30 Cal. b>9 : 32 Cal. 148 ; 44 Cal. 153, 157.
Defendants—see under Parties Generally, infra.
Devisees—sec. 1452.
Eminent domain—sec. 1237.
Errors and defects—sec. 475.
Executors, etc.—sec. 369; also see sees. 1352, 1452, 1581-1583.
Foreclosure—sec. 726n.
G
sec. 4457.
Plaintiffs—see under Parties generally, infra.
Private person—43 Cal. 229 ; 45 Cal. 199.
Privity—1 Cal. 50.
Receivers— sec. 564 et seq.
Torts—5 Cal. 456; 22 Cal. 139, 173; 32 Cal. 590.
Trustees—sec. 369.
PARTIES GENERALLY.
Adding—sec. 389. Administrator—sec. 369. Assignment—sec. 368n.
Association—business, sec. 388. Bills of exchange—sec. 383. Death
—sees. 376, 377, 385n. Defendants — sec. 379. Disability — sec. 385.
Executor — sec. 369. Fictitious name — designating by, sec. 474.
Guardian—sees. 372b, 373, 375, 376». Infant—sec. 372. Injury—sec. 376.
Insane or incompetent person—sees. 372, 373, and notes. Interplead
er—sec. 386. Intervention—sec. 387. Joining all parties interested—
sees. 378, 379, 380. 381,382, and note, 383, 384. Married woman—sees.
370, 371. Notice of assignment—sec. 368, and note. Plaintiffs—sees.
378, 382. Promissory notes—sec. 368 and note, 383. Real party in
interest—sec. 367n. Seduction—sees. 374, 375. Set-off—sec. 368 and
note. Sureties—sec. 383. Trustee—sec. 369. Thing in action—sec.
368n. Transfer of interest—sec. 385n.
§ 368. In the case of an assignment of a thing in ac
tion, the action by the assignee is without prejudice to
any set-off or other defense existing at the time of, or be
fore, notice of the assignment; but this section does not
apply to a negotiable promissory note or bill of exchange,
transferred in good faith and upon good consideration,
before maturity.
Debt, as consideration for, 12 Cal.
18 Cal. 82, 127;6 21Cal.Cal.87;189.12
Generally,
Cal.2592;509.
Cal.
Cal. Judgment,
Mil; 33 Cal. 525. Lease,
Thing in action—defined, Civil Code, sec. 953. And see Choses in
Action, sec. 367n.
Set-off—17 Cal. 290, 515; 21 Cal. 79.
Notice of assignment—6 Cal. 270: 20 Cal. 516; Jones v. Chalfant,
March 15th, 1880.
Promissory notes—8 Cal. 260; 14 Cal. 94, 450.
§ 369. An executor or administrator, or trustee of an
express trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute,
may sue without joining with him the persons for whose
benefit the action is prosecuted. A person with whom, or
iu whose name, a contract is made for the benefit of an
other, is a trustee of an express trust, within the meaning
of this section.
Executors and administrators—sees. 1452, 1581-3, 1589; 14 Cal. 117;
§ 370. When a married woman is a patty, her husband
must be joined with her, except :
1. When the action concerns her separate property, or
her right or claim to the homestead property, she may sue
alone ;
2. When the action is between herself and her husband,
she may sue or be sued alone;
3. When she is living separate and apart from her hus
band by reason of his desertion of her, or by agreement
in writing entered into between them, she may sue or be
sued alone. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Separate property—15 Cal. 308; 19 Cal. 128; 31 Cal. 333; 32 Cal. 90; 36
Cal. 447.
Sole traders—sec. 1811 et seq.
Homestead—5 Cal. 504; 6 Cal. 71; 8 Cal. 66, 74, 347 : 9 Cal. 96: 10 CaL
286; 14 Cal. 506.
Between herself and husband—3 Cal. 321.
Living separate—abandonment, 49 Cal. 34, 308.
Foreclosure—53 Cal. 456.

§ 371. If a husband and wife be sued together the
wife may defend for her own right, and if the husband
neglect
Wife defending-5
to defend, Cal.
she387may
; 9 Cal.
defend
315. for his right also.
§ 372. When an infant, or an insane or incompetent
person is a party, he must appear either by his general
guardian or by a guardian ad litem appointed by the court
in which the action is pending in each case. A guardian
ad litem may be appointed in any case, when it is deemed
by the court in which the action or proceeding is prose
cuted, or by a judge thereof, expedient to represent the
infant, insane or incompetent person in the action or
proceeding, notwithstanding he may have a general guar
dian
and may
15th, 1880.]
• have appeared by him. [In effect April
Infant—19 Cal. 210, 629; 31 Cal. 274; 32 Cal. 111.
Minor—rights ana liabilities of, Civil Code, sees. 41, 42.
Guardian ofminor—sees. 1747-1759; 9Cal.638; 16Cal.504 ; 20Cal.676;
42 Cal. 484; and generally, see 32 Cal. 116, and sees. 373, 375, 376, 793, libInsane or incompetent person—Civil Code, sees. 36, 38-41 ; guardian
of, sees. 1763-1766.
§ 373. When a guardian ad litem is appointed by the
court, he must be appointed as follows:
1. When the infant is plaintifff, upon the application of
the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, or if
under that age, upon the application of a relative or friend
of the infant ;
2. When the infant is defendant, upon the application
of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, and
apply within ten days after the service of the summons,
or if under that age, or if he neglect so to apply, then
upon the application of a relative or friend of the infant,
or of any other party to the action;
3. When an insane or incompetent person is party to an
action or proceeding, upon the application of a relative or
friend of such insane or incompetent person, or of any
other party to the action or proceeding. [In effect April
15th, 1880.]
Guardian of minor—see note to last section.
Guardian of insane or incompetent person—sec. 372n.
§ 374. An unmarried female may prosecute, as plaint
iff, in an action for her own seduction, and may recover
therein such damages, pecuniary or exemplary, as are as
sessed
Exemplary
in herdamages—see
favor.
Civil Code, sec. 3294.
§ 375. A father, or in case of his death or desertion of
his family, the mother, may prosecute as plaintifff for the
seduction of the daughter, and the guardian for the seduc
tion of the ward, though the daughter or ward be not liv
ing with or in the service of the plaintifff at the time of
the seduction or afterward, and there be no loss of service.
Guardian ad litem—sec. 372; appointment of, sec. 373.
Guardian and ward—sec. 376n.
§ 376. A father, or in case of Iris death or desertion of his
family, the mother, may maintain an action for the injury
or death of a minor child, and a guardian for the injury or
death of his ward, when such injury or death is caused by
the wrongful act or neglect of another. Such action may
he maintained against the. person causing the injury or
death, or if such person be employed by another person
who is responsible for his conduct, also against such other
person. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Death—25 Cal. 434; and sco sec. S77n.
Guardian and ward—sees. 1768-1776, and Civil Code, sees. 236-257.
. § 377. When the death of a person, not being a minor,
is caused by the wrongful act or neglect of another, his
heirs or personal representatives may maintain an action
for damages again'st the person causing the death, or if
such person be employed by another person who is re
sponsible for his conduct, then also against such other
person. In every action under this and the preceding
section, such damages may be given as under all the cir
cumstances of the case may be just. [In effect July 1st,
1874.]
Maintaining action—before Codes, who could sue, 25 Cal. 435.
Damages—Extent of, 34 Cal. 153; 44 Cal. 46; 45 Cal. 324; 49 Cal. 323.
§ 378. All persons having an interest in the subject of
the action and in obtaining the relief demanded, may be
joined as plaintifffs, except when otherwise provided in
this title.
Special partners—Civil Code, sec. 2492.
Other parties—bringing in, sec. 389.
Misjoinder and non-joinder, generally—sec. 430n.
§ 379. Any person may be made a defendant who has
ir claims an interest in the controversy adverse to the
plaintifff, or who is a necessary party to a complete de
termination or settlement of the question involved therein.
And in an action to determine the title or right of posses
ion to real property which, at the time of the commence
ment of the action, is in tho possession of a tenant, the
landlord may be joined as a party defendant.
Second sentence of section—added by Code.
All interested or necessary parties—made defendants, sec. 382n; 1
Equity cases—original section, limited to, 9 Cal. 26S ; but see 37 Cal.
389.
Ejectment—before Code,4 Cal. 70; 6 Cal. 33; 9 Cal. 270; 11 Cal. 366; 22
Cal. 200; 28 Cal. 535 ; 32 Cal. 488; under Code, 53 Cal. 306.
Joining landlord-Civil Code, sec. 1949; 19 Cal. 632 ; 32 Cal. 483; 37
Cal. 393; 50 Cal. 250.
Foreclosure—sec. 726.
Corporation stockholders—Const. Cal. art. 12, sees. 3, 4; Civil Code,
sec. 322.
Trusts—7 Cal. 92; 30 Cal. 455, 556.
' Suits against the State—Const. Cal. art. 20, sec, 6. See, also, 6 Cal,
258; 7 Cal. 65.
Counties—as parties, see sec. 367ra.
Executors—not qualifying, sec. 1587.
Defect of parties, etc.—sec. 430n.
Service on portion of defendants—sec. 414 and note.
Associates—suing by common name, sec. 388.
§ 380. In an action brought by a person out of posses
sion of real property, to determine an adverse claim of an
interest or estate therein, the peeson making such adverse
claim and persons in possession may bo joined as defend
ants, and if the judgment be for the plaintifff, he may have
a writ for the possession of the premises, as against the
defendants in the action, against whom the judgment has
passed. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Writ of possession—sec. 682n.
Additional parties—sec. 389.
Objections as to joinder—sec. 430n, and snbd. 4.
§ 381. Any two or more persons claiming any estate or
interest in lands under a common source of title, whether
holding as tenants in common, joint tenants, coparceners,
or in severalty, may unite in au action against any person
claiming an adverse estate or interest therein, for the pur
pose of determining such adverse claim, or of establish
ing such common source of title, or of declaring the same
to be held in trust, or of removing a cloud upon the same.
[In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Cotenants, as several parties—sec. 384.
Joint tenants—before this enactment, 7 Cal. 347.
Tenants in common—before this enactment, 5 Gal. 149, 501 ; 8 Cal.
187; 12 Cal. 420; 16 Cal. 461; 17 Cal. 237; under this section, 15 Cal. 371;
20 Cal. 150; 21 Cal. 5S3; 30 Cal. 484.
Executors, etc.—Joinder of, see sees. 1452, 1581 et seq.; 20 Cal. 620; 21
Cal. 202; 45 Cal. 631.
Replevin—by tenant in common, see replevin, sec. 426n.
Connected interest—24 Cal. 177.
§ 382. Of the parties to the action, those who are united
in interest must be joined as plaintifffs or defendants ; but
if the consent of any one who should have been joined as
plaintifff cannot be obtained, he may be made a defend
ant, the reason thereof being stated in the complaint ; and
when the question is one of a common or general interest,
of many persons, or when the parties are numerous, and
it is impracticable to bring them all before the court, one
or more may sue or defend for the benefit of all.
Generally—see 16 Cal. 145; 27 Cal. 50; 44 Cal. 392.
All parties Interested—joining, 26 Cal. 360 ; 31 Cal. 427; 52 Cal. 466;
53 Cal. 38.
Refusal to join as plaintifff—6 Cal. 506; 18 Cal. 322.
Common or general interest—1 Cal. 55; 7 Cal. 330 ; 21 Cal. 632.
Parties, numerous—joinder impracticable, 1 Cal. 68; 14 Cal. 540.
Joinder—errors as to, sec. 430n.
§ 383. Persons severally liable upon the same obliga
tion or instrument, including the parties to bills of ex
change and promissory notes, and sureties on the same or
separate instruments, may all or any of them be included
in the same action, at the option of the plaintifff.
Bee sees. 414, 578, 579 ; 6 Cal. 176; 25 Cal. 520; 29 Cal. 429; 48 Cal. 234.
§ 384. All persons holding as tenants in common, joint
tenants or coparceners, or any number less than all, may
jointly or severally commence or defend any civil action
or proceeding for the enforcement or protection of the
rights
Co-claimants—uniting
of such party. as plaintifffs, sec. 381.
Mining claim—error as to joinder of tenants' la common, 52 Cal. 263.
§ 385. An action or proceeding does not abate by the
death or any disability of a party, or by the transfer of
any interest therein, if the cause of action survive or con
tinue. In case of the death or any disability of a party,
the court, on motion, may allow the action or proceeding
to he continued by or agaiust his representative or suc
cessor in interest. In case of any other transfer of inter
est, the action or proceeding may be continued in the
name of the original party, or the court may allow the
person to whom the transfer is made to be substituted in
the
Construction
action or proceeding.
of section—51 Cal.
[In153.
effect July 1st, 1874.]
Substitution—of
representatives
successors,
5 Cal.3; 281
20 Cal.Tin68;
Cal. 359; 31 Cal. 333;
32 Cal. 493; 49orCal.
347 ; 53 Cal.
Ex; parte
ni, Feb. 24th, 1880; Jordan v. Hubert, March 4th, 1880.
Death—suggestion of, 13 Cal. 591; 21 Cal. 445; Judson v. Love, 35 Cal.
483; 40 Cal. 96; 44 Cal. 284; 45 Cal. 337.
CODK CIV. PROC—18.
Appeal—effect ol death or disability on, sec. 53m, and sec. 129 Supreme
Ct. rule 14.
Attachment—death dissolves, 23 Cal. 367 ; 47 Cal. 622; 50 Cal. 365.
Transfer
of interest—sec.
Cal. 446; 30Felt,
CaLMarch
467; 3422nd,
Cal. 1880.
90; 37
Cal.
388; 46 Cal.
575; 49 Cal. 203,740;34729; Walkers.
Survival—of
§ 386. A defendant
cause of action:
against
Ejectment,
whom50anCal.action
655. is pending
upon a contract, or for specific personal property, may, at
any time before answer, upon affidavit that a person not
a party to the action makes against him, and without any
collusion with him, a demand upon the same contract, or
for the same property, upon notice to such person and the
adverse party, apply to the court for an order to substi
tute such person in his place, and discharge him from
liability to either party, on his depositing in court the
amount claimed on the contract, or delivering the prop
erty, or its value, to such person'as the court may direct;
and the court may, in its discretion, make the order.
Interpleader—8 Cal. 592.
§ 387. Any person may, before the trial, intervene in
an action or proceeding, who has an interest in the matter
in litigation, in the success of either of the parties, or an
interest against both. An intervention takes place when
a third person is permitted to become a party to an action
or proceeding between other persons, either by joining
the plaintifff in claiming what is sought by the complaint,
or by uniting with the defendant in resisting the claims
of the plaintifff, or by demanding anything adversely to
both the plaintifff and the defendant, and is made by com
plaint, setting forth the grounds upon which the interven
tion rests, filed by leave of the court and served upon the
parties to the action or proceeding who have not appeared,
and upon the attorneys of the parties who have appeared,
who may answer or demur to it as if it were an original
complaint. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Intervention^
Eminent
Complaint—generally,
domain—intervention
see sec. 426,in,and
sec.notes.
1246.
Demurrer—sec. 430.
Answer—sec. 437.
§ 388. When two or more persons, associated in any
business, transact such business under a common name,
whether it comprise the names of such persons or not,
the associates, may be sued by such common name, the
summons in such cases being served on one or more of the
associates; and the judgment in the action shall bind the
joint property of all the associates, in the same manner as
if all had been named defendants, and had been sued upon
their joint liability.
Business associates—common name
§ 389. The court may determine any controversy be
tween parties before it, when it can be done without preju
dice to the rights of others, or by saving their rights; but
when a complete determination of the controversy cannot
be had without the presence of other parties, the court
must then order them to be brought in. And when, in an
action for the recovery of real or personal property, a per
son not a party to the action, but having an interest in the
subject thereof, makes application to the court to be made
a party, it may order him to be brought in, by the proper
amendment.
All parties interested—should he brought in, 53 Cal. 38. Also, see
sec. 382 n.
joining landlord—sec. 379.

§ 392. Actions for the following causes must be tried
in the county in which the subject of the action, or some
part thereof is situated, subject to the power of the court
to 1.change
For the
therecovery
place of oftrial,
realasproperty,
providedorin ofthisanCode:
estate or
interest therein, or for the determination, in any* form, of
such right or interest, and for injuries to real property;
2. For the partition of real property;
3. For the foreclosure of all liens and mortgages on
real property. Where the real property is situated partly
in one county and partly in another, the plaintifff may
select either of the counties, and the county so selected
is the proper county for the trial of such action. [Iu
effect March 2nd, 1870.]
Local
Commencement—of
action—in general,
actions
5 Cal.
as to4G1;
real9 estate,
Cal. 642;see13sec.Cal.78.321; 15 Cal.
220; 10 Cal. 432; 51 Cal. 506.
Two counties—O'Neil
v. O'Neil,
20th,
• Partition—generally,
Foreclosure—sec.
Riot—injuries
by, see
726.sec.
Political
752 et Code,
seq.Feb.sec.
4453.1880.
VENUE GENERALLY.
Action—as to real estate, where commenced, sec. 392n.
Bias—of judge, sec. 397n, and subd. 4.
Change of—affidavit for, demand for, motion for, 396n; grounds of,
sec. 307 and notes; generally, see same.
Convenience—of witnesses, sec. 397n, and subd. 3.
Counties—actions against or between, sec. 394.
Impartial trial—no, sec. 397n, and subd. 2.


PLACE OF TRIAL.
§ 393-5
Local actions—sec. 392n, sec. 393.
Officer—action against, sec. 393, subd 2.
Penalty—or forfeiture, statutory, sec. 393, subd. I.
Real property—actions concerning, sec. 392.
Residence—of defendants, sec. 395.
Transfer—of case, sees. 398-400.
Transitory actions—sec. 395.
Two counties—sec. 392n; sec. 393, subd. 1.
Wrong county—sec. 396; 397, subd 1.
§ 393. Actions for the following causes must be tried
in the county where the cause, or some part thereof, arose,
subject to the like power of the court to change the place
of trial:
1. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed
by statute ; except that, when it is imposed for an offense
committed on a lake, river, or other stream of water, sit
uated in two or more counties, the action may be brought
in any county bordering on such lake, river, or stream,
and opposite to the place where the offense was commit
ted;
2. Against a public officer, or person especially ap
pointed to execute his duties, for an act done by him in
virtue of his office, or against a person who, by his com
mand or in his aid, does anything touching the duties of
such officer.
Act done by public officer—9 Cal. 420.
Local action, generally—sec. 332n.
§ 394. Actions against counties may be commenced,
and tried in any county in the judicial district in which
such county is situated, Wless such actions are between
counties, in which case they may be commenced and tried
iu any county not a party \hereto.
§ 395. In all other cases, the action must 'be tried in
the county in which the defendants, or some of them, re
side at the commencement of the action; or, if none of
the defendants reside in the State, or, if residing in this
State, and the county in which they reside is unknown to
the plaintifff, the same may be tried in any county which
the plaintifff may designate in his complaint; and if the
defendant is about to depart from the State, such action
may be tried in any county where either of the parties re
side, or service is had ; subject, however, to the power of
the court to change the place of trial as provided in this
Code.
County where defendants reside—15 Cal. 418.
Residence of corporation—22 Cal. 537.
§ 396. If the county in which the action is commenced
is not the proper county for the trial thereof, the action
may, notwithstanding, be tried therein, unless the de
fendant, at the time he appears and answers or demurs,
files an affidavit of merits, and demands, in writing, that
the trial be had in the proper county.
Motion—time of making, 3 Cal. 438: 5 Cal. 117; 9 Cal. 643: 28 Cal. 246:
38 Cal. 560.
Affidavit of merits—Johnson v. Hyman, Jan. Term, 1875, not re
ported.
Demand—does not mean notice of motion, Estrada p. Orena, March
23rd, 1880.
§ 397. The court may, on motion, change the place of
trial in the following cases :
1. When the county designated in the complaint is not
the proper county ;
U. When there is reason to believe that an impartial
trial cannot be had therein ;
3. When the convenience of witnesses, and the ends of
justice would be promoted by the change;
4. When from any cause the judge is disqualified from
acting.

398. If an action or proceeding is commenced or pend
ing in a court, and the judge or jnstice thereof is disquali
fied from acting as such, or if for any cause the court
orders the place of trial to be changed, it must be trans
ferred for trial to a court tha parties may agree upon by
stipulation in writing, or made in open court, and entered
in the minutes ; or, if they do not so agree, then to the
nearest court where the like objection or cause for mak
ing the order does not exist, as follows :
1. If in the District Court, to another District Court;
2. If in a County Court, to some other County Court;
3. If in the Probate Court, to some other Probate Court;
4. If in a Justice's Court, to another Justice's Court in
the same county.
Superseded courts—sec. 76n.
§ 399. When an order is made transferring an action or
proceeding for trial, the clerk of the court, or justice of the
peace, must transmit the pleadings and papers therein to
the clerk or justice of the court to which it is transferred.
The costs and fees thereof, and of filing the papers anew,
must he paid by the party at whose instance the order
was made. The court to which an action or proceeding is
transferred has and exercises over the same the like juris
diction as if it had been originally commenced therein.
§ 400. When an action or proceeding affecting the
title to or possession of real estate has been brought in or
transferred to any court of a county other than the county
in which the real estate, or some portion of it, is situated,
the clerk of such court must, after final judgment there
in, certify under his seal of office, and -transmit to the
corresponding court of the county in which the real estate
affected by the action is situated, a copy of the judgment.
The clerk receiving such copy must file^docket, and record
the judgment in the record of the court, briefly designat
ing it as a judgment transferred from
court (naming
the proper court).
§ 405. Civil actions in the courts of this State are
commenced by filing a complaint. [In effect July 1st,
1874.
Commencement—generally, 4 Cal. 280; 10Cal.374; 21 Cal. 351; 29 Cal.
238; 34 Cal. 165. Demand before, pleading, sec. 426n. Pendency of ac
tion from, sec. 1049.
Issuance of summons—embraced before Amdt. 1874, 18 Cal. 639; 19
Cal. 577. Compare as to Limitations, sec. 350 and note.
§ 406. The clerk must indorse on the complaint the
. day, month, and year that it is filed; and at any time
within one year thereafter, the plaintifff may have a sum
mons issued; and if the action be brought against two or
more defendants, who reside in different counties, may
have a summons issued for each of such coYinties at the
same time. But at any time within the year after the
complaint is filed, the defendant may, in writing, or by
appearing and answering or demurring, waive the issuing
ot summons; or, if the action be brought upon a joint
contract of two or more defendants, and one of them lias
appeared within the year, the other or others may be
served or appear after the year, at any time before trial.
[In effect July 1st, 1874.]
One year—mandatory, 53 Cal. 245; no definite period before Amdt.
1860, 35 Cal. 300.
§ 407
Delay—as to Issuance of summons, 35 Cal. 296; as to service of sum
mons, see sec. 410m. Want of prosecution, generally, sec. 594m.
Summons—Issuance
of, generally,
34 Cal.
Cal. 585. Waiversec.
ol
issuance,
4 Cal. 281. See
Admission,
sec.166;415;36Appearance,
1014; Consent, sec. 283m.
Clerk's indorsement—as to ministerial officers generally, see sec.
262».
Libel and slander suits—Security for beginning, see Stats. 1871-72,
p. 533.
Appearance—sees. 476, 1014.
Alias summons—sec. 408.
Residence of defendants—in different counties, see sec. 78 as to
Peocess.
Joint contract—see sec. 414.
SUMMONS GENERALLY.
Alias—sec. 408.
Amendment of—sec. 473n,
Commencement of action—not element of, sec. 405n.
Contents of—sec. 407m.
Defendants—see Several Defendants.
Delay—sec. 410m.
Issuance of—sees. 405m, 406 and note.
Jurisdiction—by service, sec. 416 and note.
Libel and slander—security for suit, sec. 406fl.
Lis pendens—sec. 409.
Person—authorized to serve, sec. 410 and note.
Publication—service by, sees. 412, 413, and notes.
Proof of service—sees. 410, 415, and notes.
Service of—proof,
supra;
publication, note;
supra;bymode
sec. see
411
andnotes;
also sec. 410,
CopybyComplaint,
whomof,made,
Person, supra; setting aside, 416h.
Severalsec.defendants—part
served, sec. 414 and note; extra time for
service,
406.
407. The summons must bo directed to the defendant,
signed by the clerk, and issued under the seal of the
court, and must contain :
1. The names of the parties to the action, the court in
which it is brought, and the county in which the com
plaint is filed ;
2. A statement of the nature of the action in general
terms;
3. A direction that the defendant appear and answer
the complaint within ten days, if the summons is served
within the county in which the action is brought; within
thirty days, if served elsewhere;
4. In an action arising on contract, for the recovery of
money or damages only, a notice that unless the defend
ant so appears and answers, the plaintifff will take judg
ment for the sum demanded in the complaint (stating it);
8. In other actions, a notice that unless defendant so
appeals and answers, the plaintifff will apply to the court
for the relief demanded in the complaint. The name of
the plaintifff's attorney must be indorsed on the summons.
[Iu
effect March 26th,
1880.]
Process—generally,
see sec.
78».
•
Stylo of process—Const. Cal. art. 6, sec. 20; Political Code, sec. M.
Title of court—3 Cal. 192.
Contents of summons—SUBD. 1, Parties, 44 Cal. 630. Sttbd. 2, Char
acter of action, 28 Cal. IU; 41 CaJ.814;J52 Cal. 578. ,Subd. 3, Time to
684;' 18 Cal. 420.
Abbreviations, etc.—sec. 186.
Amendments—sec. 473.
§ 408. If the summons is returned without being
served on any or all of the defendants, or if it has been
lost, the clerk, upon the demand of the plaintifff, mar
issue an alias summons, in the same form as the original.
[Iu effect February 15th, 1876.]
Alias summons—not too late, 48 Cal. 464; and for delay as to sum
mons, generally, see sec. 410n; when unnecessary, 40 Cal. 572.
§ 409. In an action affecting the title or the right of
possession of real property, the plaintifff, at the time of
filing the complaint, and the defendant, at the time of
filing his answer, when affirmative relief is claimed in
such answer, or at any time afterward, may record in
the office of the recorder of the county in which the
property is situated a notice of the pendency of the action,
containing the names of the parties and the object of the
action or defense, and a description of the property in
that county affected thereby. From the time of filing
such notice for record only shall a purchaser, or incum
brancer of the property affected thereby be deemed to
have constructive notico of the pendency of the action,
and only of its pendency against parties designated by
their real names. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]

Alienation—by person in possession, sec. 747.
Partition—recording notice of suit, sec. 755.
§ 410. The summons may be served by the sheriff of
the county where the defendant is found, or by any other
§ 411
person, over the age of eighteen, not a party to the action.
A copy of the complaint must be served with the sum
mons, unless two or more defendants are residents of the
same county, in which case a copy of the complaint need
only be served upon one of such defendants. When the
summons is served by the sheriff, it must be returned,
with his certificate of its service, and of the service of any
copy of the complaint, where such copy is served, to the
office of the clerk from which it issued. When it is served
by any other person, it must be returned to the same place,
with an affidavit of such person of its service, and of the
service of a copy of the complaint, where such copy is
. served. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Proof
Serviceofofservice—sec.
summons—manner
415.
of, sec. 411 and notes.
Copy of complaint—essential, 11 Cal. 372; 28 Cal. 153; 35 Cal. 279; 41
Cal. 314. Certified, formerly had to be, 51 Cal. 615. Single, when suf
ficient, 53 Cal. 737.
Who may serve—sheriff 's deputy, not as such, 5 Cal. 449. Any out
side person, 31 Cal. 240. Who could serve formerly, 34 Cal. 391. In
Justices' Courts, sec. 849.
Sheriff's return—sec. 415, subd. 1, note.
Affidavit—sec. 415n.
Setting aside service—sec. 414w.
Service after return—10 Cal. 572.
Delay—in serving summons, 29 Cal. 238; 36 Cal. 585; 39 Cal. 450; 45
Cal.
49; 17generally,
Cal. 614; sec.
48 Cal.
464; in Issuing summons, sec. 406n; in pros
tration,
594».
§ 411. The summons must be served by delivering a
copy thereof, as follows :
1. If the suit is against a corporation formed under the
laws of this State, to the president or other head of the
corporation, secretary, cashier, or managing agent thereof;
2. If the suit is against a foreign corporation, or a non
resident joint stock company or association, doing busi
ness and having a managing or business agent, cashier, or
secretary within this State, to such agent, cashier, or
secretary ;
3. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years,
residing within this State, to such, minor, personally, and
also to his father, mother, or guardian; or, if there be
none within this State, then to any person having the care
or control of such minor, or with whom he resides, or in
whose service he is employed ;
4. If against a person residing within this State, who
jias been judicially declared to be of unsound mind, or
incapable of conducting his own affairs, and for whom a
guardian has been appointed, to such person and also
his guardian ;
5. If against a county, city or town, to the president
the board of supervisors, president of the council, i
trustees, or other head of the legislative departmei
thereof;
6. In all other cases, to the defendant personally. [1
effect July 1st, 1874.]
Mode of service—statute the guide, 11 Cal. 372 ; 43 Cal. 385; on she
iff, Political Code, sees. 4190-1192; by telegraph, sec. 1017: generally
Cal. 610; 42 Cal. 484.
Subdivisions 1, 2. Corporations—6 Cal. 185; 10 Cal. 342, 444 ; 41 Ci
616. Association—business, sec. 388 and notes.
Subdivision 3. Minor—father suing, before Code, 51 Cal. 61.
guardian of, sec. 372.
Insane 53orCal.incompetent
person—guardian o
sec.Subdivision
372; where no4. guardian,
737.
Subdivision 5. Counties as parties—see Real Party in Ii
TEREST.SeC. 367k.
ney-in-fact,
Subdivision
45 Cal.6. 455.
Personal service—mode of, 16 Cal. 386; on atto
§ 412. Where the person on whom the service is to b
made resides out of the State, or lias departed from th
State, or cannot, after due diligence, be found within th
State,
mons, or isconceals
a foreignhimself
corporation,
to avoid
having
the service
no managing
of suno
business agent, cashier, or secretary within the State, an<
the fact appears by affidavit to the satisfaction of th
davit,
court ororabyjudge
the verified
thereof, complaint
and it alsoonappears
file, that
byasuch
causeaflio
action exists against the defendant in respect to whou
the service is to be made, or that he is a necessary o
proper party to the action, such court or judge may inak<
an order that the service be made by the publication o
the summons. [In effect March 26th, 1880.]
Section generally-4 Cal. 304 ; 6 Cal. 201; 8 Cal. 449; 12 Cal. 583 ; 3
Cal. 641 ; 47 Cal. 144.

342; 47 Cal. 144; 50 Cal. 498.
Order—for, sec. 413 ; cannot direct Issuance of summons, 20 Cal. 81.
Supplemental complaint—27 Cal. 300.
Fictitious person—against, 45 Cal. 689.
Justice's Court—expressly applied to, sec. 849.
Jurisdiction—see sec. 33n.
Non-resident—against, personal judgment on, 53 Cal. 635.
Constitutionality—U Cal. Ill; 39 Cal. 439; 44 Cal. 359. But see Be
cher v. Chambers,53 Cal. 635.
Direct attack—strict construction on, 12 Cal. 100; 47 Cal. 145.
Collateral attack—favorable construction as to Superior Courts, 33
Cal. 530; Halm v. Kelly, 34 Cal. 391 ; 37 Cal. 458; 44 Cal. 359 ; 4!) Cal. 374,
and see Ixtehdmests, sec. 53n. Strict construction, 27 Cal. 300; 31
Cal. 342; 50 Cal. 502; Beicher c. Chambers, 53 Cal. 635, overruling Hahn
\ Kelly, supra.
§ 413. The order must direct the publication to be
nade in a newspaper, to be designated, as most likely to
jive notice to the person to be served, and for such length
of time as may be deemed reasonable, at least once a
n-eek; but publication against a defendant residing out of
the State, or absent therefrom, must not be less than two
months. In case of publication, where the residence of a
non-resident or absent defendant is known, the court or
judge must direct a copy of the summons and complaint
to be forthwith deposited in the post-office, directed to
the person to be served, at his place of residence. When
publication is ordered, personal service of a copy of the
summons and complaint out of the State is equivalent to
publication and deposit in the post-office, and in either
case the service of the summons is complete at the expira
tion of the time prescribed by the order for publication.
[In effect July 1st, 1874.]
applicable
Period
Publication
Designated
Proof ofoftopublication—sec.
publication—12
Justice's
newspaper—23
on Sundays—32
Completion
publication-time
ment
by default,ofsec.
585, subd. 3. • to answer after, 5 Cal. 465; judg
§ 414. 'When the action is against two or more defend
ants, jointly or severally liable on a contract, and the
summons is served on one or more but not on all of them,
the plaintifff may proceed against the defendants served in
the same manner as if they were the only defendants.
his
foreman or principal
MANNER clerk,
Or COMMENCING.
showing the same; and 146
an
affidavit of a deposit of a copy of the summons in the
post-office, if the same has heen deposited; or,
4. The written admission of the defendant in case of
service otherwise than by publication; the certificate or
affidavit must state the time and place of service.
Return of service of summons—Intendments as to, see sec. 53n;
sufficiency on collateral attack, 34 Oal. 391 ; 45 Cal. 455; 51 Cal, 615.
Subdivision 1. Sheriff's oertifloate-3 Cal. 266; 5 Cal. 449; 6 Cal.
85; 23 Cal. 401; 45 Cal. 455; sheriff 's return, generally, sec.683n.
Subdivision 2. Affidavit-11 Cal. 372 ; 28 Cal. 152.
Subdivision 3. Affidavit of publication—23 Cal. 85; 27 Cal. 295; 33
Cal. 505; proof of publication, generally, sees. 2010, 2011.
Subdivision 4. Admission of service—9 Cal. 321; 11 Cal. 307; 35
Cal. 528. Time and place—3 Cal. 192; 6 Cal. 295 ; 28 Cal. 153. Setting
aside service—50 Cal. 185. Section in general—7 Cal. 279; 9 Cal. 616;
31 Cal. 238; 34 Cal. 403, 612 ; 37 Cal. 458; 43 Cal. 385.
§ 416. From the time of the service of the summons
and of a copy of the complaint in a civil action, where
service of a copy of the complaint is required, or of the
completion of the publication when service by publication
is ordered, the court is deemed to have acquired jurisdic
tion of the parties, and to have control of all the subse
quent proceedings. The voluntary appearance of a de
fendant is equivalent to personal service of the summons
and copy of the complaint upon him. [In effect July 1st,
1874.]
An act concerning service of summons upon absent de
fendants by publication, approved March 15th, 1872, is re
pealed. [In effect March 20th, 1874.]

Admission of service—sec. 415.
Appearance—sec. 1014.
Waiver of summons—sec. 406.
Jurisdiction—generally, sec. 33m; acquired how, Ibid. ; of the per
son. Ibid.
§ 420. The pleadings are the formal allegations by the
parties of their respective claims and defenses, for the
judgment of the court.
f421. The forms of pleading in civil actions, and the
es by which the sufficiency of the pleadings is to be
determined, are those prescribed in this Code.
One form of action—sec. 307 and note.
Forms of pleading—10 Cal. 558; 17 Cal. 497.'
General rules of pleading—sec. 452 et seq.
Abolition of old systems—12 Cal. 147; 31 Cal. 158.
CODE PLEADING.
Leading cases—10 Cal. 22; Green v. Palmer, 15 Cal. 414; 16CaL243;
32 Cal. 450; 37 Cal. 250; Haskell «. Haskell, March 6th, 1880.
Forms adopted—14 Cal. 82; 24 Cal. 463; and see sees. 407, 421.
Abbreviations and numerals—sec. 186.
Rules—sec. 452 et seq.; 15 Cal. 415.
Liberal construction—sees. 452, 473, 475.
Fictions—disapproved, 16 Cal. 243; 22 Cal. 570.
Common counts—see Indebitatus Assumpsit, sec. 426n.
Ordinary language—16 Cal. 244.
Conciseness—required, 15 Cal. 418; in complaint, sec. 426, subd. 2.
Repetition—forbidden, 15 Cal. 418.
Facts, allegation of— Solely and wholly, 2 Cal. 86, 256, 468 ; 3  Harris v. Hillegass, March
30th, 1880; Conner v. Bludworth, April 26th, 1880.
Time—39 Cal. H; 40 Cal. 355; 44 Cal. 299.
Law, conclusions of—not to be averred, 12 Cal. 534; 15 Cal. 414, 415;
21butCal.
29 Cal.
Cal.and
72, see
271;Indebitatus
44 Cal. 264 ; 46 Assumpsit
Cal. 17; 51 Cal.under
210;
see119;
34 Cal.
46: 47453;
Cal.31488;
COMPLAINT IN PAB.TIOULAB CASES, Sec. 426n.
§ 422. The only pleadings allowed on the part of the
plaintifff are—
1.2. The complaint
demurrer to
; the answer.
Under
2.
And
1. Theon
Practice
demurrer
answer.
the part
Act—19
to
of the
the
Cal. complaint
defendant—
301.
§ 425. The first pleading on the part of the plaintifff is
the complain§ 426. The complaint must contain—
1. The title of the action, the name of the court and
county in which the action is brought, and the names of
the parties to the action ;
2. A statement of the facts constituting the cause of
action, in ordinary and concise language ;
3. A demand of the relief which the plaintifff claims.
If the recovery of money or damages be demanded, the
amount thereof must be stated.
Complaint, generally—see Code Pleading, sec. 421n.
CONTENTS OF COMPLAINT.
Subdivision 1. Title—defective, sec. 1046. Court—see 3 CaL 195.
Venue —generally, sees. 392-400. Parties — generally, sees. 367-389;
names of, sees. 388, 474; 13 Cal. 75; and see 44 Cal. 630.
Subdivision 2. Facts—how alleged, see Code Pleading, sec.
421n. Concise and ordinary language—see Code Pleading, sec.
421n.
Subdivision 3. Relief—sec. 580n. Damages—see Complaint nr
Particular. Cases, infra, and sec. 657, subd. 5n. Cross-complaint
—sec. 442.
COMPLAINT, IN PARTICULAR OASES.
Account—Items, omitting, sec. 454; stated, 9 Cal. 360; and see 13 Cal.
427. Accounting—suit for, 17 Cal. 178; Quackenbush v. Sawyer, March
29th, 1880: in partnerships, 2 Cal. 86: 3 Cal. 294 ; 4 Cal. 320; 6 Cal. 574; 35
Cal. 434 ; 43 Cal. 11; 48Cal.l71; 50 Cal. 77. Administrator-6Cal.393; 10
Cal. 559; 12 Cal. 314: 28 Cal. 182; 38 Cal. 21; SO Cal. 456; see, also, sees. 377,
1582. Amendment—sec. 473n; also see sees. 432, 472. Assessment,
street—see Taxes. Assignee—of bankrupt, 48 Cal. 450; generally, see
assignment, sec. 368n. Assumpsit—see Indebitatus Assumpsit,
and
Contract.
Bond—4 Cal.
15; 30 Cal. 629
; 62 Cal. 504. Common
counts—see
Indebitatus
Assumpsit.
Contract—Averment,
sees.

Conditions
precedent,
sec.
Taxes—49
; 51 5.)Cal.Oal.
217.395;Tender-53
CaL 597.
Title—quiet
ing;,
35 Cal. Cal.
30; 38150,623
Cal. 679;
and generally,
see sees.
738, 1050.
Tort—joint, 53 Cal. 654. Trespass—49 Cal. 617; 5lCal. 303 ; 53 Cal. 141.
Trover—48 Cal. 152; 49 Cal. 617; 50 Cal. 367, 616: Payne v. Elliott, March
18th, 1880. Trnst-50 Cal. 107. Usage of trade—sec. 1870, subd. 12; 46
Cal. 209. Vendor's lien—8 Cal. 398. Verification—sec. 446. Work and
labor—Downing v. Graves, April 8th, 1880.
§ 427. The plaintifff may unite several causes of action
in the same complaint, where they all arise out of—
1. Contracts, express or implied ;
2. Claims to recover specific real property, with or with
out damages for the withholding thereof, or for waste com
mitted thereon, and the rents and profits of the same;
3. Claims to recover specific personal property, with or
without damages for the withholding thereof;
4. Claims against a trustee by virtue of a contract or by
operation of law;
5. Injuries to character;
6. Injuries to person ;
7. Injuries to property ;
The causes of action so united must all belong to one
only of these classes, and must affect all the parties to
the action, and not require different places of trial, and
must be separately stated; but an action for malicious
arrest and prosecution, or either of them, may be united
with an action for either an injury to character or to the
person.

Cal. 197. ImproperJoinder, and objection to, sec. 430, subd. 5; 31 CaL
Subdivision
2. Heal property—4 Cal. 291; 5 Cal. 225; 14 CaL 25; 15
Cal.
152.
Subdivision 7.3.5.6.4. Injuries
Replevin—generally,
Libel
Personal
Trustees—28
or slander—pleading,
toinjuries—4
property—3
Cal. 632. Cal.
sec.Cal.27.
509440;
sec.
et seq.
460.
12 CaL555; 32 Cal.

585. 590 : 4,'i Cal. 180.
§ 430. The defendant may demur to the complaint
within the time required in the summons to answer, when
it appears upon the face thereof, either—
1. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the
defendant, or the subject of the action ; or,
2. That the plaintifff has not legal capacity to sue; or,
3. That there is another action pending between the
same parties for the same cause ; or,
4. That there is a defect or misjoinder of parties plaintifff
or defendant; or,
5. That several causes of action have been improperly
united; or,'
6. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action; or,
7. That the complaint is ambiguous, unintelligible, or
uncertain.
DEMUEHER GENERALLY.
Office—admits
facts,8
should not state them, 24Cal.397;
Cal. 239:19Cal.l28;
to whole 24orCal.602;
part, sec.38Cal.337;
431 ; raisesand
is
sue of law, sees. 589, 592.
Limits—not too general, 1 Cal. 448; 4 Cal. 330; 10 Ca). 237 ; 24 Cal. 382;
26to Cal.
294 ; 1047 Cal.
Cal. 299;
90, 608
49 Cal.
grounds,
specifying,
sec.of431venue,
; not
prayer,
28 ;Cal.
228; 560:
38 Cal.
230: not
for change
13 Cal. 321; and see sec. 396.
Sustained—when, 50 Cal. 276, 520,588; Hartmane. Olvera, December
29th, 1879, 4 Pac. C. L. J. 452.
Service of—sec. 465.
Notice—of ruling on, time, runs from service of, sec. 476.
As appearance—sec. 1014.
Hearing on—sees. 593, 594.
Judgment on—sec. 636.
GROUNDS OF DEMURRER.
StTBDIVIsioif 1. No jurisdiction—6 Cal. 386; 16 Cal. 432; 49 Cal. 351 ;
5JCaL^267. Raiting at any stage of the proceedings, see Non-Waiveb,
Subdivision 2. Disability of plaintifff-see Parties, sec. 367 ei
teq. ; 49 Cal. 455.
Subdivision 3. Another action pending—generally, 14 Cal. 42; 27
Cal. 105, 358; 21 Cal. 314; 32 Cal. 628 ; 36 Cal. 132; 41 Cal. 62.
Subdivision 4. Joinder of parties—generally, sees. 378, 381, 382.
383, 414. 578, 573: estoppel on objection as to, 4 Cal. 197; 40 Cal. 105:
waiver of objection as to, sec. 434.
*
Non-joinder-of plaintifffs, 
Misjoinder-. if plaintifffs, sees. 378, 381 , 382, 434 ; 6 Cal. 471 ; 10 Cal. 302,
347
Cal. 639;v.40Castro,
Cal. 165;31 50CaL4J9:
defend
ants,; 215 Cal.
Cal.633313:; 2630Cal.
Cal.337;
586;29Wilson
Cal. 426; 44ofCal.
319;
48. Cal. 234 ; 53 Cal. 665; " Debris " case, 53 Cal. 721 ; Hooper t,. Flood, Feb
ruary 28tll, 1880.
Subdivision 5. Misjoinder of causes of action—7 Cal. 133 ; 10 Cal.
217; 43 Cal. 180; 47 Cal. 87; 50 Cal. 523, 652 ; 51 CaL 431, 511 ; 52 Cal. 250;
Haskell r. Haskell, March 5th, 1880: generally, see sec. 427, and notes.
Subdivision 6. Insufficiency of complaint — 10 Cal. 347, 559; 12
Cal.5045;Cal.Kent
v. Snyder,
Cal.47.J,672;504;42 53Cal.Cal.27974,
; 47267:
Cal.Has
87;
49 Cal.294;455.29 560;
127. 298:
52 Cal. 30142,
kell v. Haskell. March 5th, 1880: Conner v. Bludwortb, April 56th,
1880. Raising at any time, see NON-WAIVER, sec. 434n.
Subdivision 7. Ambiguity—25 Cal. 82; 29 Cal. 156; 36 Cal. 195; 39
Cal.618; 41 Cal. 595, 657 ; 43 Cal. 191; 45 Cal. 21, 125; 47Cal. 488 ; 50Cal.
132, 639; 53 Cal. 435.
§ 431. The demurrer must distinctly specify the
grounds upon which any of the objections to the com
plaint are taken. Unless it do so, it may be disregarded.
It may be taken to the whole complaint or to any of the
causes of action stated therein, or the defendant may de
mur and answer at the same time.
Specifying grounds—6 Cal. 386 ; 25 Cal. 82; 30 Cal. 666; 39 Cal. 401: It
Cal. 43; 50 Cal. 121; 52 Cal. 356; and see Demurrer generally.
Limits,
Whole
Demurrer
notortooPart—31
with
general,
answer—31
Cal.sec.103;430n.
47Cal.
Cal.101;
608, 32
andCal.
sec.208:
430«answer
as to generality.
after de
murrer, as waiver, 1 Cal. 206, 470, 481.
§ 432. If the complaint is amended, a copy of the
amendments must be filed, or the court may, in its discre
tion, require the complaint, as amended, to be filed, and
a copy of the amendments, or amended complaint, must
be served upon the defendants affected thereby. The de
fendant must answer the amendment or the complaint, as
amended, within ten days after service theieof, or such
other time as the court may direct, and judgment by de
fault may be entered upon failure to answer, as in other
cases. [In effect March 9th, 1880.]
Amendment—generally, sees. 472, 473; to complaint, sec. 473n, 28 Cal.
Time to answer—23 Cal. ISO; 30 Cal. 192; 32 Cal. 131: ten days,
amdt. 1880.
Default—30 Cal. 192; generally, sec. 585.
§ 433. When any of the matters enumerated in sectiou
430 do not appear upon the face of the complaint, the ob
jection
Objection
maybybe
answer—29
taken byCal.answer.
637; 45 Cal. 270; 47 Cal. 221 ; 49 Cal. 155.
§ 434. If no objection be taken, either by demurrer or
answer, the defendant must be deemed to have waived
the same, excepting only the objection to the jurisdiction
of the court, and the objection that the complaint does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
Waiver—Answer, admissions by non-denial, sec. 462 ; 4Cal.ll7; 8Cal.
280;
insufficient
denials, objection
bo raised
below,
1ane.February
Cal.14CaL
196; 35116:Cal.
Cal. 417; June
53must
Cal.4th,
135;
v. Du16th,635;
1880;46Cal.408;
Pac. Co. v.50Klrkham,
1880.Spiers
Causesaf
action, improperly uniting, 1 Cal. 395; 10 Cal. 217; 32 Cal. 342; 51 Cal. 431.
Demurrable
objections, 4 Cal.
197, 244; 175.
10Cal.562; 25defective
Cal. 88; 30 Cal.
95; 31
Cal. 46; 44 4Cal.
improper,
lCal.168;
Cal.43;313;48 Cal.
6 Cal.155;
164;517Cal.
Cal. 333;Joinder,
10 Cal. IliT; 21 Cal.or033;
2S Cal.
639;
36 Cal. 126;
38Cal.52l;
48 Cal.
Limitations,
Statute
of,
Non-waiver—of
objections
to jurisdiction
and560complaint's
raising at any stage of the proceedings,
10 Cal.
; 2ii Cal. 437;validity,
52 CaL
99: mode of taking after answer, Hentsch v. Porter, 10 CaU 560.
§ 437. The answer of the defendant shall contain :
1. A general or specific denial of the material allegations
of the complaint controverted by the defendant;
2. Aorstatement
of anyIfuew
matter constituting
fense
counterclaim.
the complaint
be verify.1a de' denial of each allegation controverted must be sjr /£!
and be made positively, or according to the inform ibn
and belief of the defendant. If the defendant has no in
formation or belief upon the subject sufficient to enable
him to answer an allegation of the complaint, he may so
state in his answer, and place his denial on that ground.
If the complaint be not verified, a general denial is suffi
cient, but only puts in issue the material allegations of
the complaint, tin effect July 1st, 1874.]
Contents
and character
of answer—After
demurrer
Cal.
272. Election
Classification
of defenses,
Piercy
v. Cal.
Sabin,
10 Generally,
Cal.overruled,
22, 303sec*.
; 4521
Cal.
50.
as
to
defenses,
2i
Cal.
669. Prohibited defenses, 'iliCnh 378; 46Cal. 100. Several answers, 33 Cal.
92; 34 Cal. 47. Waiver by, 1 Cal. 206, 471, 481 ; 50 Cal. 185.
Subdivision 1. General denial—see subd. 2, and Denials, infra.
Specific denial—see subd. 2, and Denials, infra. Material allega
tions—see subd. 2, and Denials, infra.

100,
425. New
matter—see
Defenses—broadly,
classification
of. under
Contents
and infra.
Character
of Answer,see
supra;
strictly, J
see New Matter,
claim—see
New Matter,
under Confession
infra. Verification
and Avoidance.
of pleadings—sec
Counter- I\
446 et seq. Specific denial—see Denials, infra. Information and
belief—see
Denials, infra.Denials,
Generalinfra;
denial—see
Denials,
infra.to
Material allegations—see
conclusions
of law, not
be denied, see same ; denials on information and belief, see same.
DENIALS.
Admissions, as affecting—generally, 18 Cal. 434; 37 Cal. 165: by at
torney, sec. 283, subd. 1, note; 5 Cal. 80.
Accord and satisfaction—4O Cal. 97. Acconnt, items of—demand
ing, sec. 454. Attachment—Justification under. 22 Cal. 651 ; 51 CaL 524;
53 Cal. 261. Claim and delivery—return asked, sec. 667. Contract—
conditions precedent in, see Answer generally; by flrm,22 Cal.
-357. Ejectment—sees. 739, 741; 36 Cal. 633 ; 47 Cal. 21, 146, 437 ; 48 Cal.
537; 50 Cal. 26, 258,310; 51 Cal. 178,198, 545; 53 Cal. 405, 435. and see EQUI
TABLE Defense, sec. 438n. Fraud—5 Cal. 161; 48 Cal. 152. Instru
ment—written,
of setting
sees.Judgment—sec.
448, 449. Joinder—defect
ive or improper,effect
45 Cal.
264; 49 forth,
Cal. 155.
456 ; 39 Cal.
539; 53 Cal. 135; and see Justification under process, infra. Justi
fication—under process; execution, 7 Cal. 554; 10 Cal. 304; 19 Cal. 112,
622:
attachment,
see that
head.Limitations,
Land contest—49
356. Libelsec. 461.
License—45
Cal. 485.
statute Cal.
of—pleading,
see
sec. 312n; setting up in answer, 35 Cat 122; 47 Cal. 293; 52 Cal. 257, 262.
Mortgage—45 Cal. 580. Payment—17 Cal. 571; 21 Cal. 74; 30 Cal. 174.
Promissory note—21 Cal. 74; 50 Cal. 61. Replevin—50 CaL 615; 52 Cal.
286. Slander—sec. 461. Statute—private, pleading, sec. 459. Tres
pass—32 Cal. 578; 49 CaL 598. Undue influence—see Mortgage.
§ 438. The counterclaim mentioned in the last section
must be one existing in favor of a defendant and against
a plaintifff, between whom a several judgment might be
had in the action, and arising out of one of the following
causes of action :
1. A. cause of action arising out of the transaction set
forth in the complaint as the foundation of the plaintifff's
claim, or connected with the subject of the action ;
2. In an action arising upon contract ; any other cau.se
of action arising also upon contract, and existing at the
commencement of the action.
Section—construction of, 26 Cal. 305.
Subdivision 1. See Transaction, under Counter-claim,
infra.
Subdivision 2. See Contract, under Counter-claim, infra.
COUNTER-CLAIM.
Action, subject of—connected with; see Transaction, infra.
Contract—arising out of, 18 Cal. 171 ; 26 Cal. 305 ; 30 Cal. 252 ; 41 CaL 56.
Cross-demands—deemed compensated, sec. 440.
Dismissal—nonewhere, sec. 581, subd. 1.
Distinguishable—from cross-complaint, 34 Cal. 122; 38 Cal. 584; 41
Cal. 137.
Equitable defense—by way of; requisites, 19 Cal. 299; 30 Cal. 44S; 44
Cal. 362; ejectment. 19 Cal. 671; 42 Cal. 346, 392,452; 46 Cal. 530;
legal, 43 Cal. 635; equitable, 7 Cal. MS; 11 Cal. 101; and see Separate
Suit.
Subject ofaction—connected with, see Transaction.
Sufficiency of—valid, 51 Cal. 223; Insufficient, 41 Cal. 661; 49 Cat. 163;
51 Cal. 639 ; 52 Cal. 154; 53 Cal. 31.
Test of—see Separate Suit.
Transaction—relating to, 35 Cal. 274; 39 Cal. 389; 45 Cal. 10; 49 Cal.
163;
53 Cal. 31. 439; 35 Cal. 274.
Waiver—sec.
§ 439. If the defendant omit to set up a counterclaimin the cases mentioned in the first subdivision of the last
section, neither he nor his assignee can afterward main
tain an action against the plaintifff therefore.
Waiver of counterclaim—Contra, before this section, 6 Cal. 453; 23
Cal. 629; 26 Cal. 303.
§ 440. When cross-demands have existed between per
sons under such circumstances that, if one had brought
an action against the other, a counterclaim could have
been set up, the two demands shall be deemed compen
sated, so far as they equal each other, and neither can be
deprived of the benefit thereof by the assignment or death
ofCross-demands—when
the other. [In effect
deemed
Julycompensated,
1st, 1874.] 47 Cal. 78.
§ 441. The defendant may set forth by answer as many
defenses and counterclaims as he may have. They must
be separately stated, and the several defenses must refer
to the causes of action which they are intended to answer,
in a manner by which they may be intelligibly distin
guished: The defendant may also answer one or more of
the several causes of action stated in the complaint, and
demur to the residue.
Inconsistent defenses—13 Cal. 623; Bell v. Brown,Z2 Cal. 678; 25 Cal.
31; 30 Cal. 192; 34 Cal. 39; 43 Cal. 264 ; 52 Cal. 565.
§ 442. "Whenever the defendant seeks affirmative relief
against any party, relating to or depending upon the con
tract or transaction upon which the action is brought, or
affecting the property to which the action relates, he may,
in addition to his answer, file at the same time, or by per
mission of the court subsequently, a cross-complaint.
The cross-complaint must be served upon the parties
affected thereby, and such parties may demur or answer
thereto as to the original complaint. [In effect July 1st.
1874.]
Cross-complaint—requisites of, 24 Cal. 141; 38 Cal. 585; 40 Cal. 110;
4153 Cal.
Cal. 381; none
49 Cal.where,
55: sufficiency
of, 512;Cal.
154;
Cal. 137;
435: 44dismissal,
sec. 581. subd.
53 491;
Cal. 3152 : Cal.
trustee,
against, 51 Cal. 491; for Injunction, 47 Cal. 549; In ejectment, 48 Cal. 386;
52 Cal. 154; 53 Cal. 435.

§ 443. The plaintifff may, within the same length of
time after service of the answer as the defendant is
allowed to answer after service of summons, demur to the
answer of the defendant, or to one or more of the several
defenses or counterclaims set up in the answer. [In
effect July 1st, 1874.]
Demurrer to answer—13 Cal. 623 ; 25 CaL 31 ; and compare see. 430n.
Waiver—as to sufficiency of answer, 34 Cal. 106; 50 Cal. 417; and com
pare sec. 434.
Demurrer—service of, sec. 465; extension of time for, sec. 1054; to
complaint, see sec. 430m.
§ 444. The demurrer may be taken upon one or more
of the following grounds :
1. That several causes of counterclaim have been im
properly joined ;
2. That the answer does not state facts sufficient to con
stitute a defense or counterclaim ;
3. That the answer is ambiguous, unintelligible, or un
certain.
Grounds of demurrer—see sec. 430; subds. 5, 6, 7, and notes.
Subdivision 2. General demurrer—what amounts to, 48 CaL 36.
§ 446. Every pleading must be subscribed by the party
or his attorney ; and when the complaint is verified, or
when the State, or any officer of the State, in his official ca
pacity, is plaintifff, the answer must be verified, unless an
admission of the truth of the complaint might subject the
party to a criminal prosecution, or unless an officer of the
State, in his official capacity, is defendant. In all cases of
a verification of a pleading, the affidavit of the party
must state that the same is true of his own knowledge,
except as to the matters which are therein stated on his
information or belief, and as to those matters that he be
lieves it to be true; and where a pleading is verified, it
must be by the affidavit of a party, unless the parties
are absent from the county whete the attorney resides,
or from some cause unable to verify it, or the facts are
within the knowledge of his attorney or other person ver
ifying the same. When the pleading is verified by the
attorney, or any other person except one of the parties,
he must set forth in the affidavit the reasons why it is not
made by one of the parties. When a corporation is a
party, the verification may be made by any officer thereof.
Pleading subscribed—by whom, 8 Cal. 572 ; 30Cal. 192: printed sig
nature, 49 Cal. 413.
Unverified complaint—permits general denial, 6 Cal. 640.
Unverified answer—effect of, 9 Cal. 423; 18 Cal. 416; objection to, 6
Cal. 67; 10 Cal. 464; 41 Cal. 298.
Verified answer—Insufficient averments of, 13 Cal. 87; 52 Cal. 171.
And see Specific denials, when Insufficient, sec. 437n.
of verification on, 9 Cal. 453; 17 Cal.
251;Information
19 Cal. 30; 46and
Cal.belief—form
§ 447. When an action is brought upon a written in
strument, and the complaint contains a copy of such in
strument, or a copy is annexed thereto, the genuineness
and due executifin of such instrument are deemed admit
ted, unless the answer denying the same be verified.

§ 448. When the defense to an action is founded on a
written instrument, and a copy thereof is contained in the
answer, or is annexed thereto, the genuineness and due
execution of such instrument are deemed admitted, unless
the plaintifff file with the clerk, within ten days after re
ceiving a copy of the answer, an affidavit denying the
same, and serve a copy thereof on the defendant. [In
effect July 1st, 1874.]
Omission of affidavit—denying execution, 49 Cal. 38.
§ 449. But the execution of the instrument mentioned
in the two preceding sections is not deemed admitted by
a failure to deny the same under oath, if the party desir
ing to controvert the same is, upon demand, refused an
inspection of the original. Such demand must be in writ
ing, served by copy, upon the adverse party or his attor
ney, and filed with the papers in the case. [In effect
April
Inspection
16th, of
1880.]
writings—order for, sec. 1000.
how pleaded. 
§ 452. In the construction of a pleading, for the pur
pose of determining its effect, its allegations must be lib
erally construed, with a view to substantial justice be
tween the parties.
Pleadings, construction of—see 1 Cal. 167; 32 Cal. 176, 639 ; 40 Cal. 33;

§ 453. Sham and irrelevant answers, and irrelevant
and redundant matter inserted in a pleading, may be
stricken out, upon such terms as the court may, in its dis
cretion, impose.
Section generally—22 Cal. 566; 34 Cal. 161; 43 Cal. 180, 369.
Striking out—generally, 13 Cal. 623; 15 Cal. 414; 25 Cal. 37; 28 Cal. 295;
30 Cal. 565; and compare sec. 433: not at chambers, 30 Cal. 560: notice
of motion, specifying grounds, 33 Cal. 173.
Sham and irrelevant answers—pretended defenses, 10 Cal. 22: 18
Cal. 387 ; objection,
32 Cal. 571:1836Cal.
Cal.337:
300;general
40 Cal. 166,
444: striking
affidavitout,
of good
defeats
denial,
51 Cal.faith,
313;
52CaL171.
Irrelevant and redundant matter—11 Cal. 104; 15 Cal. 414; 16 Cal.
571, 578; 28 Cal. 679; 30 Cal. 194, 565; 53 Cal. 255.
§ 454. It is not necessary for a party to set forth in a
pleading the items of an account therein alleged, but he
must deliver to the adverse party, within five days after
a demand thereof in writing, a copy of the account, or he
precluded from giving evidence thereof. The court or
judge thereof may order a further account when the one
delivered is too general, or is defective in any particular.
[In effect March 9th, 1880.]
Account—setting forth, 1 Cal. 437 ; 32 Cal. 634.
Bill of particulars—17 Cal. 280 ; 32 Cal. 638 ; 46 Cal. 30.
§ 455. In an action for the recovery of real property,
it must be described in the complaint with such certainty
as to enable an officer upon execution to identify it.
Description—5 Cal. 42; 6 Cal. 155; 16 Cal. 433; 19 Cal. 300; 21 Cal. 140;
30 Cal. 467.
§ 456. In pleading a judgment, or other determination
of a court, officer, or board, it is not necessary to state the
facts conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment or de
termination may be stated to have been duly given or
made. If such allegation be controverted, the party
pleading must establish on the trial the facts conferring
jurisdiction.
Pleading judgment, or other determination—12 Cal. 181,283; 35 Cal.
448; 53 Cal. 135.
Judgment—17 Cal. 518; 36 Cal. 117; and see Justification under Proc
ess, note on Answer in Particular Cases, sec. 437; " given or made," 52
Cal. 407.
Determination of board—47 Cal. 488.
§ 457. In pleading the performance of conditions prece
dent in a contract, it is not necessary to state the facts
showing such performance, but it may be stated generally
that the party duly performed all the conditions on his
part, and if such allegation be controverted, the party
pleading must establish, on the trial, the facts showing
such performance.
,
Conditions precedent—interpretation of, see Civil Code, sec. 1437 ; 5
Cal. 341;
34 Cal.
670; 50 Cal.
350, 575:
allega
tion
of, 6 17Cal.Cal.258276.
; 30588;
Cal. 24486;Cal.35 632;
Cal. 448;
49Cal.566;
general
averment,
in contract only, 52 Cal. 350.
Particular instances—attorney paid, 3 Cal. 110: deed, demand, tend
er, etc., 25 Cal. 266; 35 Cal. 661; 40 Cal. 438; 41 Cal. 420, 532 : 45 Cal. 303; 46
Cal.
47 Cal. 72:section
insurance
fire, 4424 Cal.
Cal. 448
416:; 39statu
tory 8;conditions,
doespolicy,
not cover,
Cal. 264
630;; 4735 Cal.
Cal.
490;
Cal.561.
350: taxes, street assessments, etc., 22 Cal. 133; 47 Cal. 456;
48 Cal.52 427,
§ 458. In pleading the Statute of Limitations, it is not
necessary to state the facts showing the defense, but it
may be stated'generally that the cause of action Is barred
by the provisions of section
(giving the number of the
section and subdivision thereof, if it is so divided, relied
upon) of the Code of Civil Procedure; and if such allega
tion be controverted, the party pleading must establish,
on the trial, the facts showing that the cause of action is
so barred.
See Limitations Geneually, pleading, sec. 312n: before Code,
17 Cal. 671;
27 301.
Cal. 278: specially pleading, 47 Cal. 291: replication as
sumed,
49 Cal.
§ 459. In pleading a private statute, or a right derived
therefrom, it is sufficient to refer to such statute by its
title and the day of its passage.
§ 460. In an action for libel or slander, it is not neces
sary to state in the complaint any extrinsic facts for the
purpose of showing the application to the plaintifff of the
defamatory matter out of which the cause of action arose ;
but it is sufficient to state, generally, that the same was
published or spoken concerning the plaintifff; and if such
allegation be controverted, the plaintifff must establish,
on the trial, that it was so published or spoken.
Colloquinm—34
Innuendo—41 Cal.
Cal.378.58; 41 Cal. 378; 47 Cal. 207 ; 51 Cal. 75.
§ 461. In the actions mentioned in the last section, the
defendant'may, in his answer, allege both the truth of the
matter charged as defamatory, and any mitigating circum
stances, to reduce the amount of damages; and whether
he prove the justification or not, he may give in evidence
the mitigating circumstances.
Libel suit—answer in, 9 Cal. 529 ; 10 Cal. 371.
Truth—U Cal. 379; 47 Cal. 258; 50 Cal. 631; 51 Cal. 75.
Mitigating circumstances—11 Cal. 379: 47 Cal. 252.
Privileged communication—17 Cal. 624.
§ 462. Every material allegation of the complaint, not
controverted by the answer, must, for the purposes of the
action, be taken as true; the statement of auy new mat
ter in the answer, in avoidance or constituting a defense
or counterclaim, must, on the trial, be deemed contro
verted by the opposite party.
Admissions and replications—8 Cal. 275; 12 Cal. 403; 15 Cal. 638; 19
Cal. 28; 31 Cal. 231; 32 Cal. 450; 34 Cal. 160; 40 Cal. 110; 41 Cal. 133,279; 44
CaL 100; 48 Cal. 483 ; 49 Cal. 301; 52 Cal. 565.
§ 463. A material allegation in a pleading is one essen
tial to the claim or defense, and which could not be
stricken from the pleading without leaving it insuffi
cient.
Material allegation—defined, 9 Cal. 499; 15 Cal. 411; 48 Cal. 439: In
complaint, see Facts, allegation op, under Oode Pleading, sec.
421»: answer, denials of. In, see sec. 437n.
§ 464. The plaintifff and defendant, respectively, may
be allowed, on motion, to make a supplemental complaint
or answer, alleging facts material to the case occurring
after the former complaint or answer.
Complaint, supplemental—6 Cal. 483; 14 Cal. 679; 15 CaL 308; 50 Cal.
Answer, supplemental—27 CaL 247; 30 CaL 472; 41 CaL 221; 47 Cal.
437; Harding r. Mlnear, April 6th, 1880.
Amending pleadings—see sec. 472.
§ 465. All pleadings subsequent to the complaint must
be filed with the clerk, and copies thereof served upon
the adverse party or his attorney. [In effect July 1st,
1874.]
Extension of time—tor filing and serving, 47 Cal. 86.
Amended complaint—must be served, 53 Cal. 293.
Service of papers—sec. 1011 et seq.
§ 469. No variance between the allegation in a plead
ing and the proof is to be deemed material, unless it has
actually misled the adverse party to his prejudice in main
taining his action or defense upon the merits. Whenever
it appears that a party has been so misled, the court may
order the pleadings to be amended, upon such terms as
may be just. [In effect July 1st, 1874.J
Material variance—32 CaL 11 ; 45 Cal. 193, 515.
Immaterial variance—sec. 470.
Variance, fatal—seel 471.
§ 470. "Where the variance is not material, as provided
in the last section, the court may direct the fact to be
found according to the evidence, or may order an imme
diate amendment, without costs.
Variance—material, sec. 469; fatal, sec. 471, and note; curable, sec.
4iln.
§ 471. Where, however, the allegation of the claim or
defense to which the proof is directed, is unproved, not in
some particular or particulars only, but in it3 general
scope and meaning, it is not to be deemed a case of
variance, within the last two sections, but a failure of
proof.
Proof-generally, sees. 1824, 1869.
Proof, failure of—dismissal for, sec. 581, subd. 5: generally, see
'atal VABIAIfOE, infra.
.Variance—fatal, 3 Cal. 191; 5 Cal. 503; 10 Cal. 332; 22 Cal. 515; 33 Cal,
191; 41 7Cal.
Cal.265;
347; 3051Cal.
Cal.364;
605:31cura1,1''; 35-Cal.'69,470;
Cal.%;136;45 20Cal.Cal.38,517;
590; 2849Cal.
Cal.
14,89; 36 Cal. 94, 168; 39 Cal. 591; 41 Cal. 657.
§ 472. Any pleading may be amended once by the
party of course, and without costs, at any time before
answer or demurrer filed, or after demurrer and before the
trial of the issue of law thereon, by filing the same as
amended, and serving a copy on the adverse party, who
may have ten days thereafter in which to answer or
demur to the amended pleading. A demurrer is not
waived by filing an answer at the same time ; and when
the demurrer to a complaint is overruled, and there is no
answer filed, the court may, upon such terms as may be
just, allow an answer to be filed. If a demurrer to the
answer be overruled, the facts alleged in the answer must
be considered as denied, to the extent mentioned in sec
tion 462. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Pleading, amendment of—complaint, 10 Cal. 410; 14 Cal. 202 ; 30 Cal.
76; 34 Cal. 167: answer, see infra.
Complaint, amended—filing, sec. 432; 28 Cal. 246: serving, 53 Cal.
293: generally, sec. 473n.
Declining to amend—effect of, see Waiver under Amendment,
sec. 473n.
Answer—Amendment of, sec. 473ra. With demurrer, waiver formerly,
1 Cal. 206, 470: at same time, sec. 431. After demurrer overruled, no
tice, sec. 476: terms, 12 Cal. 440; 23 Cal. 127; 28 Cal. 672 ; 38 Cal. 639.
§ 473. The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on
such terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any
pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the
name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the
name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect ; and
may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or de
murrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after
notice to the adverse party, allow, upon such terms as may
be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in
other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this Code ;
and may, also, upon such terms as may be just, relieve a
party or his legal representative from a judgment, order,
or other proceeding taken against him through his mis
take, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect; pro
vided, that application therefore be made within a reasona
ble time, but in no case exceeding six months after such
judgment, order, or proceeding was taken. When from
any cause the summons in an action has not been person
ally served on the defendant, the court may allow, on
such terms as may be just, such defendant or his legal
representative, at any time within one year after the ren
dition of any judgment in such action, to answer to the
merits of the original action. When, in an action to
recover the possession o£ personal property, the person
making any affidavit did not truly state the value of the
property, and the officer taking the property, or the sure
ties on any bond or undertaking, is sued for taking the
same, the officer or sureties may in their answer set up the
true value of the property, and that the person in whose
behalf said affidavit was made was entitled to the posses
sion of the same when said affidavit was made, or that the
value in the affidavit stated was inserted by mistake, the
court shall disregard the value as stated in the affidavit,
and give judgment according to the right of possession of
said propertv at the time the affidavit was made. [In
effect March 9th, 1880.]
Party, name of—see under Amesdmest, infra.
Mistake in other respect—see same.
Extension of time—5 Cal. 62.
Other particulars—see under Amesdmeitt infra, topics Answer,
Complaint,
Judgment, Default,
order, etc.—relief
Judgment,
from,etc.
see under Amendment infra,
topics Default, Equity, Judgment, etc.
Surprise, etc.—see under Amendment, topic Opening Default ;
also, sec. 667, subd. 3, and 28 Cal. 335.
Summons—not personally served, G Cal. 101 ; and see under Amend
ment,
Claimtopic
andOpening
delivery-—affidavit
Default.on, sec. 510.
AMENDMENT.

Conditions of—see Terms.
Costs—bill of, correcting, 3 Cal. 115: as terms of amendment, 49 Cal.
308 ; and see Terms.
Default, opening—conditions, see Teems: grounds for, 2 Cal. 248;

showing

VARIANCE—MISTAKES.

21
relief,
law,3Cal. see
130:JIoetgage.
5 Cal.407 ; 6 CaL 22; 7
Cal.Cal.
32;442:
u Cat
157;when
20 Cat.none
114: at
foreclosure,
Execution—53 Cal. 557.
Generally-2 CaL 194 ; 3 CaL 115; 7 CaL 135; 14 CaL 201; 17 CaL 285; 40
Cal.
312; 43 Cal. 253:justice,
45 Cal. 53;liberality,
47 CaL 527; 48and
Cal.Teems,
562; 49
Cal. 445;
340; 41andCal.see17,Discretion,
infra.
Immaterial—see Justice.
Judgment—Correction of, see Nunc pro Tunc, and 5 CaL 492 ; 45
53CaL88.
Amendment
of pleadings
after,
31 CaL 195; 40
Cal. 445.
47Cal.Cal.64;608;
48 Cal. 171.
Relieffrom:
vacating,
see Default,
opening,

Process—2
Pleading—sec.
Cal. 472ra.
193; 53 Cal. 557.
Record—see Judgment, and Term of Court; also, 3 CaL 255: 4
Cal. 331; 9 CaL 173, 351; 19 Cal. 127; 20 Cal. 632; 27 CaL 491; 45 CaL 118.
Referee—no power to allow, when, 2 CaL 197.
Return—of officer, 23 Cal. 81.
sec.
Term
33, note
of court—After
on Jurisdiction
expiration
andof,Terms,
formerly,
sec.see
78n;Adjournment,
a
Terms—allowance on, generally, 49 Cal. 308: for opening default, 21
Cal.443; 36Cal.288; 41Cal.l7; 48Cal.562; 49 Cal. 33, 101.
Verifying—amendment by, see sec. 446n.
amending,
Cal. 25: amendment,
by declining10toCal.
amend,
633;
36Waiver—by
Cal. 112; 50Cal.499:
by 14resisting
347 : 24of Cal.
amend
ment by answering, 42 Cal. 227.
§ 474. When the plaintifff is ignorant of the name of a
defendant, he must state that fact in the complaint, and
such defendant may be designated in any pleading or pro
ceeding by any name, and when his true name is discov
ered the pleading or proceeding must be amended accord
ingly.
Fictitious name used—2 Cal. 562: 14 Cal. 119; 27 Cal. 99; 40 Cal. 490;
42 Cal. 227, 577 ; 45 Cal. 692; 50 Cal. 205, 585; McCreery v. Everding, Feb.
14th, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 9; Sherman v. McCarthy, March 3rd, 1880,5 Pac.
C. L. J. 58.
§ 475. The court must, in every stage of an action, dis
regard any error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings
which does not affect the substantial rights of the parties,
and no judgment shall be reversed or affected by reason
ofAmendment—sec.
such error or defect.
473n.
Errors not prejudicial—see sec. 657, subd. In, and 9 Cal. 269; 16 Cal.
574: 20 Cal. 586; 31 Cal. 383; 32 Cal. 11, 145; 48 Cal. 346, 354 ; 51 Cal. 175; 52
Cat 171, 338 ; 53 Cal. 491, 557.
§ 476. When a demurrer to any pleading is sustained
or overruled, and time to amend or answer is given, the
time so given runs from the service of notice of the decis
ion or order. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Computation of time—sec. 12n.
Time to answer—sees. 432, 472, 473.
Notice, service of—sec. 1010 et seq.
Overruling demurrer—Notice of, incorporating in record, 52 Cal.
§ 478. No person can be arrested in a civil action, ex
cept as prescribed in this Code.
Imprisonment for debt and torts—Const. Cal. art. 1, sec. 15.
H;Arrest—parties
Political Code,privileged
sec. 1069. from, Const. Cal. art. 2, sec. 2; art. 4, sec.
Fraud—requisite,
Cal.15.438; 6 Cal. 240; sec. 479, subd. 4,
note; but see Const.for
Cal.arrest,
art. 1, 1sec.
He exeat-49 Cal. 465.
§ 47S. The defendant may be arrested, as hereinafter
prescribed, in the following cases :
1. In an action for the recovery of money or damages
on a cause of action arising upon contract, express or
implied, when the defendant is about to depart from the
State with intent to defraud his creditors;
2. In an action for a fine or penalty, or for money or
property embezzled, or fraudulently misapplied, or con
verted to his own use, by a public officer, or an officer of
a corporation, or an attorney, factor, broker, agent, or
clerk, in the course of his employment as such, or by any
other person in a fiduciary capacity ; or for misconduct or
neglect in office, or in a professional employment, or for
a willful violation of duty ;
3. In an action to recover the possession of personal
property unjustly detained, when the property, or any
part thereof, has been concealed, removed, or disposed of,
to4.prevent
When its
thebeing
defendant
found has
or taken
beenbyguilty
the sheriff;
of a fraud in
contracting the debt or incurring the obligation for which
the action is brought; or in concealing or disposing of the
property for the taking, detention, or conversion of which
the action is brought;
5. When the defendant has removed or disposed of his
property, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his
creditors. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
,
Arrest—generally, 2 Cal. 609; 3 Cal. 377 ; 8 Cal. 87.
Subdivision 1. Contract, express or implied—see Civil Code,
sees. 1020, 1621.
Subdivision 2. Agent's misappropriation—1 Cal. 346 ; 8 CaL 624.
Subdivision 3. Claim and delivery—generally, see sec. 509 et setSubdivision 4. Fraud—1 Cal. 440 ; 6 Cal. 61, 240.
§ 480. An order for the arrest of the defendant must
be obtained from a judge of the court in which the action
is brought. [In effect March 9th, 1880.]
§ 481. The order may be made whenever it appears to
the judge, by the affidavit of the plaintifff, or some other
person, that a sufficient cause of action exists, and that
the case is one of those mentioned in section four hundred
and seventy-nine. The affidavit must be either positive
or upon information and belief; and when upon informa
tion and belief, it must state the facts upon which the in
formation and belief are founded. If an order of arrest
be made, the affidavit must be filed with the clerk of the
court. [In effect July 1, 1874.]
Order—generally, 3 Cal. 377; 6 Cal. 57, 318; 10 Cal. 411.
Affidavit—requisites of, 2 Cal. 607.
§ 482. Before making the order, the judge must require
a written undertaking on the part of the plaintifff, with
sureties in an amount to be fixed by the judge, which
must be at least five hundred dollars, to the effect that
the plaintifff will pay all costs which may be adjudged to
the defendant, and all damages which he may sustain by
reason of the arrest, if the same be wrongful, or without
sufficient cause, not exceeding the sum specified in the
undertaking. The undertaking must be filed with the
clerk of the court. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Undertaking—generally, sees. 941», 1057; also see sees. 259, suM. 3,
and 581, subd. 1.
§ 483. The order may be made at the time of the issu
ing of the summons, or any time afterwards before judg
ment. It must require the sheriff of the county where the
defendant may be found, forthwith to arrest him and hold
him to bail in a specified sum, and to return the order at
a time therein mentioned, to the clerk of the court in which
the action is pending.
Order of arrest—when may be made, 6 Cal. 320.
§ 484. The order of arrest, with a copy of the affidavit
upon which it is made, must be delivered to the sheriff,
who, upon arresting the defendant, must deliver to him a
copy of the affidavit, and also, if desired, a copy of the
order of arrest.
§ 485. The sheriff must execute the order by arresting
the defendant and keeping him in custody until dis
charged by law.
§ 486. The defendant, at any time before execution,
must be discharged from the arrest, either upon giving
bail or upon depositing the amount mentioned in the
order of arrest.
§ 487. The defendant may give bail by causing a writ
ten undertaking to be executed by two or more sufficient
sureties, to the effect that they are bound in the amount
mentioned in the order of arrest, that the defendant will
at all times render himself amenable to the process of
the court during the pendency of the action, and to such
as may be issued to enforce the judgment therein, or that
they will pay to the plaintifff the amount of any judgment
which may be recovered in the action.
Bail—effect of, as waiver, 6 Cal. 59; qualifications of, sees. 494, 1057 ;
sureties, complaint against, 45 Cal. 252.
§ 488 At any time before judgment, or within ten
days thereafter, the bail may surrender the defendant in
their exoneration; or he may surrender himself to the
sheriff of the county where he was arrested.
Surrender of defendant—5 Cal. 93; 8 Cal. 552.
§ 489. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant,
the bail, at any time or place before they are finally
charged, may themselves arrest, or, by a written author
ity indorsed on a certified copy of the undertaking, may
empower the sheriff to do so. Upon the arrest of defend
ant by the sheriff, or upon his delivery to the sheriff by
the bail, or upon is own surrender, the bail are exoner
ated, if such arrest, delivery, or surrender take place be
fore the expiration of ten days after judgment; but if
such arrest, delivery, or surrender be not made within
ten days after judgment, the bail are finally charged on
their undertaking, and bound to pay the amount of the
judgment within ten days thereafter.
Bail—liability of, 6 Cal. 57.
Judgment—within ten-days after, 8 Cal. 654.
§ 490. If the bail neglect or refuse to pay the judg
ment within ten days after they are finally charged, an
action may be commenced against such bail for the
amount of the original judgment.
§ 491. The bail are exonerated by the death of the de
fendant, or his imprisonment in a State Prison, or by his
legal discharge from the obligation to render himself
amenable to the process.
§ 492. Within the time limited for that purpose, the
sheriff must file the order of arrest in the office of the
clerk of the court in which the action is pending, with
his return indorsed thereon, together with a copy of the
undertaking of the bail. The original undertaking he
must retain in his possession until filed, as herein pro
vided. The plaintifff, within ten days thereafter, may
serve upon the sheriff a notice that he does not accept the
bail, or he is deemed to have accepted them, and the
sheriff is exonerated from liability. If no notice he
served within ien days, the original undertaking must
be filed with the clerk of the court.
493. Within five days after the receipt of notice, the
sheriff or defendant may give to the plaintifff, or his attor
ney, notice of the justification of the same, or other bail
(specifying the places of residence and occupations of the
latter), before a judge of the court, or county clerk, at a
specified time and place ; the time to be not less than five
nor more than ten days thereafter, except by consent of
parties. In case other bail be given, there must be a new
undertaking. [In effect March 9th, 1880.]
§ 494. The qualifications of bail are as follows :
1. Each of them must be a resident and householder, or
freeholder, within the state.
2. Each must be worth the amount specified in the order
of the arrest, or the amount to which the order is reduced,
as provided in this chapter, over and above all his debts
and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execu
tion; but the judge or county clerk, on justification, may
allow more than two sureties to justify severally, in
amounts less than that expressed in the order, if the
whole justification be equivalent to that of two sufficient
bail.
Qualifications—of
[In effect July
bail, 1st,
sec. 1874.]
1057.
§ 495. For the purpose of justification, each of the bail
must attend before the judge or county clerk, at the time
and place mentioned in the notice, and may be examined
on oath, on the part of the plaintifff, touching his suffi
ciency, in such manner as the judge or clerk, in his discre
tion, may think proper. The examination must be re
duced to writing, and subscribed by the bail, if required
by the plaintifff.
Justification—sec. 259, subd. 3; 10 Cal. 189.
§ 496. If the judge or clerk find the bail sufficient, he
must annex the examination to the undertaking, indorse
his allowance thereon, and cause them to be filed, and the
sheriff is thereupon exonerated from liability.
Court commissioners—power as to bail, sec. 259, subd. 3.
§ 497. The defendant may, at the time of Ills arrest,
instead of giving bail, deposit with the sheriff the amount
mentioned in the order. In case the amount of the bail
be reduced, as provided in this chapter, the defendant
may deposit such amount instead of giving bail. In
either case, the sheriff must give the defendant a certifi
cate of the deposit made, and the defendant must be
discharged from custody.
Deposit in court—sees. 572-574, 2104.
§ 498. The sheriff must, immediately after the deposit,
pay the same into court, and take from the clerk receiv
ing the same two certificates of such payment, the one of
which he shall deliver to the plaintifff's attorney, and the
other to the defendant. For any default in making such
payment, the same proceedings may be had on the official
bond of the sheriff, to collect the sum deposited, as in
other
Sheriff—penalty
cases of delinquency.
for non-payment, Political Code, sec. 4181.
§ 499. If money is deposited, as provided in the two
last sections, bail may be given, and may justify upon
notice, at any time before judgment ; and on the filing of
the undertaking and justification With the clerk, tlie
money deposited must be refunded to the defendant.
§ 500. Where money has been deposited, if it remain
on deposit at the time of the recovery of a judgment in
favor of the plaintifff, the clerk must, under the direction
of the court, apply the same in satisfaction thereof, and
after satisfying the judgment, refund the surplus, if any.
to the defendant. If the judgment is in favor of the de
fendant, the clerk must, under like direction of the court,
refund to him the whole sum deposited and remaining
unapplied.
§ 501. If, after being arrested, the defendant escape or
is rescued, the sheriff is liable as bail ; but he may dis
charge himself from such liability by the giving bail at
any time before judgment.
§ 502. If a judgment is recovered against the sheriff,
upon his liability as bail, and an execution thereon is
returned unsatisfied in whole or in part, the same pro
ceedings may be had on his official bond for the recovery
of the whole or any deficiency, as in other cases of delin
quency.
§ 503. A defendant arrested may, at any time before
the trial of the action, or if there be no trial, before the
entry of judgment, apply to the judge who made the
order, or the court in which the action is, pending, upon
reasonable notice, to vacate the order or arrest or to
reduce the amount of bail. If the application be made
upon affidavits on the part of the defendant, but not
otherwise, the plaintifffs may oppose the same by affida
vits or other proofs, in addition to those on which the
order of arrest was made. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Defendant's waiver—6 CaL 57.
Motion to vacate arrest—1 Cal. 347 ; 3 Cal. 378.
§ 504. If, upon such application, it appears that there
was not sufficient cause for the arrest, the order must
be vacated ; or if it appears that the bail was fixed too
high, the amount must be reduced.
Discharge—no rearrest after, 2 Cal. 609.
§ 509. The plaintifff in an action to recover the posses
sion of personal property may, at the time of issuing the
summons, or at any time before answer, claim the deliv
ery of such property to him, as provided in this chapter.
Recovery of possession—of personalty, Code remedy for, 27 CaL
465; 38 CaL 583; 53 Cal. 133.
Claim and delivery—optional, 38 Cal. 583; generally, 3 Cal. 469; 11
Cal. 262; 14 CaL 410; 22 Cal. 139; 27 CaL 451; 23 CaL 605; 34 CaL 645; X
Cal. 110; 38 Cal. 507, 583.
§ 510. "Where a delivery is claimed, an affidavit must
be made by the plaintifff, or by some one in his behalf,
showing:
1. That the plaintifff is the owner of the property
claimed (particularly describing it), or is entitled to the
possession thereof ;
2. That the property is wrongfully detained by the de
fendant;
3. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, accord
ing to his best knowledge, information, and belief ;
4. That it has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or
fine, pursuant to a statute, or seized under an execution
or an attachment against the property of the plaintifff, or
if so seized, that it is by statute exempt from such seizure.
5. The actual value of the property.
Justices' courts—sec. 510 et ieq.; made applicable to, sec. 870.
Subdivision 5. Value—incorrectly stated in affidavit, sec. 473.
§ 511. The plaintifff or his attorney may, thereupon
by an indorsement in writing upon the affidavit, requirthe sheriff of the county where the property claimed ma;
be, to take the same from the defendant.
Indorsement—3 Cat. 469.
§ 512. Upon a receipt of the affidavit and notice, witl
a written undertaking, executed by two or more sufficient
sureties, approved by the sheriff, to the effect that they
are bound to the defendant in double the value of the
property, as stated in the affidavit for the prosecution of
the action, for the return of the property to the defend
ants, if return thereof be adjudged, and for the payment
to him of such sum as may, from any cause, be recovered
against the plaintifff, the sheriff must forthwith take the
property described in the affidavit, if it be in the posses
sion of the defendant or his agent, and retain it in his
custody. He must, without delay, serve on the defend
ant a copy of the affidavit, notice, and undertaking, by
delivering the same to him personally, if he can be found,
or to his agent from whose possession the property is
taken, or if neither can be found, by leaving them at the
usual place of abode of either, with some person of suit
able age and discretion, or if neither have any known
place of abode, by putting them in the nearest post-office,
directed to the defendant.
Seizure of property—3 Cal. 112; 24 CaL 147.
Undertaking—liability on, 4 Cal. 114; 7 Cal. 390; 8 Cal. 448; 21 Cal
280 ; 49 Cal. 302 : title not affected by, 11 Cal. 277 : return adjudged, sees
627, 667 : dismissal discharges, sec. 581, subd. 1.
Sheriff's duties—Political Code, sees. 4185, 4188, and generally, sees
4175-4193.
Value—incorrectly stated in affidavit, sec. 473.
§ 513. The defendant may, within two days after the
service of a copy of the affidavit and undertaking, give
notice to the sheriff that he excepts to the sufficiency ofthe
sureties. If he fails to do so, he is deemed to have waived
all objection to them. When the defendant excepts ie
sureties must justify on notice in like manner as upon
bail on arrest; and the sheriff is responsible for the suffi
ciency of the sureties until the objection to them is either
waived or until they justify. If the defendant e jpt to
the sureties, he cannot reclaim the property as provided
in the next section.
Justification of sureties—10 Cal. 189.
§ 514. At any time before the delivery of the property
to the plaintifff, the defendant may, if he do not except tb
:he sureties of the plaintifff, require the return thereof,
ipon giving to the sheriff a written undertaking, executed
jy two or more sufficient sureties, to the effect that they
'.re bound in double the value of the property, as stated
u the affidavit of the plaintifff, for the delivery thereof to
tfie plaintifff, if such delivery be adjudged, and for the pay
ment to him of such sum as may, for any cause, be recov
ered against the defendant. If a return of the property
be not so required within five days after the taking and
service of notice to the defendant, it must be delivered to
the plaintifff, except as provided in section 519.
Defendant's sureties—liability of. 7 Cal. 568; also compare sec. 512n;
and as to undertakings generally, see sec. 941; qualifications of sure
ties, sec. 1057.
§ 515. The defendant's sureties, upon notice to the
plaintifff of not less than two or more than five days,
must justify before a judge or county clerk, in the same
manner as upon bail on arrest; and upon such justifica
tion the sheriff must deliver the property to the defend
ant. The sheriff is responsible for the defendant's sure
ties until they justify; or until the justification is com
pleted or waived, and may retain the property until that
time ; if they, or othera in their place, fail to justify at the
time and place appointed, he must deliver the property
to the plaintifff.
See sec. 513n.
§ 516. The qualification of sureties must be such as
<re prescribed by this Code, in respect to bail upon an
rder of arrest.
Sureties—qualifications of, sec. 1057.
§ 517. If the property or any part thereof be concealed
in a building or enclosure, the sheriff must publicly de
mand its delivery ; if it be not delivered, he must cause
the building or enclosure to be broken open, and take the
property into his possession; and, if necessary, he may
ca! fb his aid the power of his county.
Fu. this and remaining sections, see Sheriff's Duties, sec. 512n.
§ 518. When the sheriff has taken property, as in this
chapter provided, he must keep it in a secure place, and
deliver-s to the party entitled thereto, upon receiving his
fees for taking and his necessary expenses for keeping
the same.
§ 519. If the property taken be claimed by any other
person than the defendant or his agent, and such person
make affidavit of his title thereto, or right to the possesCode Civ. Froc—10.
sion thereof, atating the grounds of such title or right,
and serve the same upon the sheriff, the sheriff is not
bound to keep the property or deliver it to the plaintifff,
unless the plaintifff, on demand of him or his agent, in
demnify the sheriff against such claim, by an undertak
ing, by two sufficient sureties ; and no claim to such prop
erty by any other person than the defendant or his agent
is valid against the sheriff unless so made.
§ 520. The sheriff must file the notice, undertaking, and
affidavit, with his proceedings thereon, with the clerk of
the court in which the action is pending, within twenty
days after taking the property mentioned therein.
§ 521 of said Code is repealed. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
§ 525. An injunction is a writ or order requiring a per
son to refrain from a particular act. It may be granted
by the court in which the action is brought, or by a judge
thereof ; and when made by a judge, it may be enforced
as an order of the court. [In effect, March 9th, 1880.]
Injunction generally—form of, 10 Cal. 347 : definition, see Writ, sec.
51n, and Order, sec. 1003 : scope and function of, sec. 526n : kinds of,
aeeinfra: receiver at same time, 28 Cal. 577, sec. 564: disobedience to,
is contempt, sees. 1209, 1210: limitations, how affected by,sec. 356: pro
ceedings to obtain, sees. 527 to 531 : vacating or modifying, sees. 532, 533.
Injunction, kinds of—provisional or preliminary, also called tem
porary, sec. 525 ft teq., sec. 526, subds. 2 and 3, including Interim injunc
tion, sec. 530n: permanent or final, (Including limited and perpetual)
sec. 526, subd. 1.
Courts and judges—power to grant Injunction, on any day, sees. 76,
131: at chambers, sec. 166; court commissioners not empowered to
Issue, sec. 259, subd. 1.
County judge—auxiliary power of, before amdt. 1880, 6 Cal. 88. 449;
12 Cal. 441; 23 Cat 464 ; 27 Cal. 151.
§ 526. An injunction may be granted in the following
cases:
1. "When it appears by the complaint that the plaintifff is
entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief, or any
part thereof, consists in restraining the commission or
continuance of the act complained of, either for a limited
period or perpetually.
2. When it appears by the complaint or affidavit that
the commission or continuance of some act during the liti
gation would produce waste, great or irreparable injury
to the plaintifff.
3. When it appears during the litigation that the defend
ant is doing, or threatens, or is about to do, or is procuring
or suffering to be done, some act in violation of the plaint
iffs rights, respecting the subject of the action, and tend
ing to render the judgment ineffectual.
Injunction, scope, and function of—Generally, equitable discretion
unlimited as to, 7 Cal. 325 : later steps In action, how affected by, 
Waste—generally, 34 Cal. 15: during foreclosure, sec. 745.
Taxes—enjoining collection, suits, sales, etc., 2 Cal. 593; 6 Cal. 41; 11
Cal. 361. 380; 12 Cal. 273,298, 299; 13 Cal. 175; 18CaLS07; 36 Cal. 70; 46 Cal.

subds.
note, supra.
§ 527. The injunction may be granted at the time of
issuing the summons upon the complaint, and at any time
afterward, before judgment, upon affidavits. The com
plaint in the one case, and the affidavits in the other, must
show satisfactorily that sufficient grounds exist therefore.
No injunction can be granted on the complaint unless it
is verified. When granted on the complaint, a copy of the
complaint and verification attached must be served with
the injunction ; when granted upon affidavit, a copy of the
affidavit must be served with the injunction.
Complaint-for injunction, 22 Cal. 362 ; 35 Cal. 52; 53 Cal. 201,416:
verification of, sec. 446: presenting in advance of filing, 12 Cal. 107.
Affidavits—upon, 35 Cal. 52.
Preliminary injunction—discretionary powers as to, 50 Cal. 344; 52
Cal. 65.
Service—mode of, 16 Cal. 386: by sheriff, see Sheriff's Duties, Politi
cal Code, sees. 4175-4191 : other notice of injunction, 1 Cal. 397.
§ 528. An injunction cannot be allowed after the de
fendant has answered, unless upon notice, or upon an
order to show cause ; but in such case the defendant may
be restrained until the decision of the court or judge
granting or refusing the injunction.
Injunction after answer—6 Cal. 449; 22 Cal. 362; 35 Cal. 52.
Restraining order—see Inteium Injunction, sec. 530«.
§ 529. On granting an injunction, the court or judge
must require, except when the people of the State, a
county, or municipal corporation, or a married woman in
a suit against her husband, is a party plaintifff, a written
undertaking on the part of the plaintifff, with sufficient
sureties, to the effect that the plaintifff will pay to the
party enjoined such damages, not exceeding an amount to
be specified, as such party may sustain by reason of the
injunction, if the court finally decide that the plaintifff
was not entitled thereto. Within five days after the serv
ice of the injunction, the defendant may except to the
sufficiency of the sureties. If he fails to do so, he is
deemed to have waived all objections to them. When
excepted to, the plaintifff's sureties, upon notice to the de
fendant of not less than two nor more than five days,
must justify before a judge or county clerk in the same
manner as upon bail on arrest, and upon failure to justify,
or if others in their place fail to justify at the time and
place appointed, the order granting an injunction shall be
dissolved. [In effect April 15th, 1880.]
Undertakings—Generally, sec. 941n; returned on dismissal, sec. 581,
subd. 1. Sureties, qualifications of, sec. 1057; justification of, sec. 495,
also sec. 259, subd. 3.
Undertaking on injunction—order inoperative until given, 1 Cal.
3%; 12 Cal. 106: liability on,4 Cal.384; 10 Cal. 351; 13 Cal. 585,588; 15 Cal.
11; 18 Cal. 625 ; 28 Cal. 542; 37 Cal. 34; 45 Cal. 302: Bustamente v. Stew
art, July 2d, 1880, 5. Pac. C. L. J. 592; generally, see 2 Cal. 245; 3 Cal.
216; 6 Cal. 399 ; 25 Cal. 169,
§ 530. If the court or judge deem it proper that the de
fendant, or any of several defendants, should be heard
before granting the injunction, an order may be made re
quiring cause to be shown, at a specified time and place,
why the injunction should not be granted; and the defend
ant may, in the meantime, be restrained.
Interim injunction—restraining order, period of, 13 Cal. 585; 15 Cal.
109 : bond, see 1 Cal. 397 ; 12 Cal. 106 ; also, see generally, 18 Cal. 206. .
§ 531. An injunction to suspend the general and ordi
nary business of a corporation cannot be granted except
by the court or a judge thereof; nor can it be granted
without due notice of the application therefore to the
proper officers or managing agent of the corporation, ex
cept when the people of this State are a party to the pro
ceeding.
Courts and judges—power to grant injunction, see sec. 525n.
§ 532. If an injunction be granted without notice, the
defendant, at any time before the trial, may apply, npon
reasonable notice to the judge who granted the injunction,
or to the court in which the action is brought, to dissolve
or modify the same. The application may be made upon
the complaint and the affidavit on which the injunction
was granted, or upon affidavit on the part of the defend
ant, with or without the answer. If the application be
made upon affidavits on the part of the defendant, but
not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose the same by affi
davits or other evidence, in addition to those on which the
injunction was granted.
Dissolution, generally—practice on, 35 Cal. 66: on appeal, when, 4
Cal.
on, 15without
Cal. 88: notice,
formerly
before
Cal. 70:
464; reviving
and see order
sec. 525n:
when,
sec.county
937; 12 judge,
Cat. 440:23
where continuance unnecessary, 44 Cal. 185; see, also, 8 Cal. 268; 9 Cal.
553; 12 Cal. 441; 22 Cal. 479; 29 Cal. 124.
Dissolution ou complaint and answer—6 Cal. 452; 23 Cal. 82; 38
Cal. 637 ; 39 Cal. 166; 42 Cal. 457; 45 Cal. 186; 52 Cal. 277.
Dissolving on affidavits—15 Cal. 116; 35 Cal. 52; 39 Cal. 511; 44 Cal.
184; 49 Cal. 359; Parrott v. Floyd, April 17th, 1880.
§ 533. If upon such application it satisfactorily appear
that there is not sufficient ground for the injunction, it
must be dissolved ; or if it satisfactorily appear that the
extent of the injunction is too great, it must be modified.
See sec. 532n.
§ 537. The plaintifff, at the time of issuing the sum
mons, or at any time afterward, may have the property
of the defendant attached, as security for the satisfaction
of any judgment that may be recovered, unless the de
fendant give security to pay such judgment, as in this
chapter provided, in the following cases :
1. In an action upon,a contract, express or implied, for
the direct payment of money, where the contract is made
or is payable in this State, and is not secured by any
mortgage or lien upon real or personal property, or any
pledge of personal property, or, if originally so secured,
such security has, without any act of the plaintifff, or the
person to whom the security was given, become valueless ;
2. In an action upon a contract, express or implied,
against a defendant not residing in this State. [In effect
July 1st, 1874.]
Attachment, generally—auxiliary nature of, 6 Cal. 777 : statutory
strictness
to,9release
Cal. 262;
Cal. 155:effect
whenof,void,
13 Cal.
18 Cal.
378;
42 Cal,as135:
by 18plaintifff,
32 Cal.
674:441;
malicious
Issuance, complaint for, 50 Cal. 115; and see Sharp v. Miller, March
18th, 18S0: death
29 Cal.
47 Cal.
50 Cal. 365,
367: of
partnership,
doesdissolves.
not dissolve
it, 359
52 ;Cal.
650: 622;
dissolution
generally,
sees. 556-558 and notes: sheriff's duties, sees. 540n, 542, 55u, and return,
sees.
559:539levy,
sec. 542n:
affidavit,
sec.note:
538n; garnishment,
and see sec. sees.
557:
bonds,546,
sees.
and note,
54(to.549n,
555 and
542,543-545: further.see Davidson r. Dallas. 8 Cal. 227; Ibid. 570;
Property of defendant—16 Cal. 399; 40 Cal. 391.
Preventing levy by counter-bond—see sec. 540.
Subdivision 1. Contract— £:rprea.t or tmpjtetf, not applicable. 2
assecurity, 32 Cal. 55; 35 Cal. 202; 39 Cal. 549; 45 CaL 4.
Subdivision 2. Contract—express or implied, see note to subd. 1.
Residence—see Political Code, sec. 52.
§ 538. The clerk of the court must issue the writ of at
tachment, upon receiving an affidavit by or on behalf of
plaintifff, showing:
1. That the defendant is indebted to the plaintifff (speci
fying the amount of such indebtedness over and above
all legal set-offs or counterclaims) upon a contract, ex
press or implied, for the direct payment of money, and
that such contract was made or is payable in this State,
and that the payment of the same has not been secured
by any mortgage or lien upon real or personal property,
or any pledge of personal property, or, if originally so se
cured, that such security has, without any act of the
plaintifff, or the person to whom the security was given,
become valueless; or
2. That the defendant is indebted to the plaintifff (speci
fying the amount of such indebtedness over and above
all legal set-offs or counterclaims) and that the defendant
is a non-resident of the State ; and
3. That the attachment is not sought, and the action is
not prosecuted, to hinder, delay, or defraud any creditor
of the defendant. [In effect July 1st, 1874-1
Duty of clerk—see Political Code, sec. 1032; 25 Cal. 202; 36 Cal. 210.
Affidavit, requisites of—4 Cal. 195; 38 Cal. 215; 41 Cal. 118: also, as to
section
352 ; 8 Cal.
260; 13 Cal.
434; 18 Cal. Walkle
152; 35
Cal. 199;generally,
41 Cal. 117:see
" or7 ifCal.
originally
so secured,"
construction,
t,. Cohn, February 27th, 1880.
§ 539. Before issuing the writ the clerk must require a
written undertaking on the part of the plaintifff, in a sum
not less than two hundred dollars, and not exceeding the
amount claimed by the plaintifff, with sufficient sureties,
to the effect that if the defendant recover judgment, the
plaintifff will pay all costs that may be awarded to the de
fendant and all damages which he may sustain by reason
of the attachment, not exceeding the sum specified in the
undertaking. Within five days after service of the sum
mons in the action, the defendant may except to the suffi
ciency of the sureties. If he fails to do so, he is deemed
to have waived all objections to them. When excepted
to, the plaintifffs sureties, upon notice to the defendant
of not less than two nor more than five days, must justify
before a judge or county clerk in the same manner as
upon bail on arrest, and upon failure to justify, or if others
in their place fail to justify, at the time and place ap
pointed, the clerk or judge shall issue an order vacating
the writ of attachment. [In effect March 30th, 1874. See
decision
Undertaking,
of Supreme
generally—sees.
Court.]259, subd. 3; 581, subd. 1; 941n.
Sureties—justification
Undertaking
on attachment—form
of, sec. 495; qualifications
of, 7 Cat. 514;of,44sec.
Cal.1057.
168: when
void, 2 Cal. 251 ; damages on. 1 Cal. 410; extent of surety's liability on,
49 Cal. 354; repealed enactment of 1874, see Goodwin v. Buckley,
March 11th, 1880.
§ 540. The writ must be directed to the sheriff of any
county in which property of such defendant may be, and
must require him to attach and safely keep all the prop
erty of such defendant within his county not exempt
from execution, or so much thereof as may be sufficient
to satisfy the plaintifff's demand, the amount of which
must be stated in conformity with the complaint, unless
the defendant give him security by the undertaking of at
least two sufficient sureties, in an amount sufficient to
satisfy such demand, besides costs, or in an amount equal
to the value of the property which has been or is about
to be attached ; in which case, to take such undertaking.
Several writs may be issued at the same time to the sher
iffs of different counties.
Writ, generally—sec. 51n.
Sheriff, duties of— excused only by written directions, Political
Code, sec. 4185; 12 Cal. 539; when released by stipulation, 53 Cal. 3;
when must show process, Political Code, sec. 4188.
Exemptions from execution—sec. 690.
Undertaking to prevent attachment—form of counter-bond, 29
CaL199;
of sureties,
17 Cal.
433 ; after
29 Cal.appearance,
194: com
plaint onliability
counter-bond,
52 Cal. sec.
504; 941n;
bond for
release
sec. 555.
§ 541. The rights or shares which the defendant may
have in the stock of any corporation or company, to
ether with the interest and profit thereon, and all debts
ue such defendant, and all other property in. this State
of such defendant not exempt from execution, may be
attached, and if judgment be recovered, be sold to satisfy
the
Debts
Stocks
judgment
and
or shares—how
credits,
and etc.—how
execution.
attached,
attached,
sec. 542,sec.subd.
642, 4.subd. 5.
Garnishment generally—sees. 543-545.
§ 542. The sheriff to whom the writ is directed and
delivered must execute the same without delay, and if
the undertaking mentioned in section five hundred and
iorty be not given, as follows :
1. Real property, standing upon the records of the
county in the name of the defendant, must be attached
by filing with the recorder of the county a copy of
the writ, together with a description of the property
attached and a notice that it is attached, and by leaving
a similar copy of the writ, description, and notice with
an occupant of the property, if there is one ; if not, then
by posting the same in a conspicuous place on the prop
erty attached.
2. Real property, or any interest therein, belonging to
the defendant, and held by any other person, or standing
on the records of the county in the name of any other
person, must be attached by filing with the recorder of
the county a copy of the writ, together with a description
of the property and a notice that such real property and
any interest of the defendant therein, held by or standing
in the name of such other person, (naming him) are at
tached, and by leaving with the occupant, if any, and
with such other person or his agent, if known and within
the county, or at the residence of either, if within the
county, a copy of the writ, with a similar description and
notice. If there is no occupant of the property, a copy
of the writ, together with such description and notice,
must be posted in a conspicuous place upon the property.
The recorder must index such attachment when filed, in
the names both of the defendant and of the person by
whom the property is held, or in whose name it stands on
the record*,
3. Personal property, capable of manual delivery, must
be attached by taking it into custody.
4. Stocks or shares, or interest in stocks or shares, of
any corporation or company must be attached by leaving
with the president or other head of the same, or the sec
retary, cashier, or other managing agent thereof, a copy
of the writ, and a notice stating that the stock or interest
of5.theDebts
defendant
and credits,
is attached,
and other
in pursuance
personal property,
of such writ.
not
capable of manual delivery, must be attached by leaving
with the person owning such debts, or having in his pos
session or under his control such credits and other per
sonal property, or with his agent, a copy of the writ and
a notice that the debts owing by him to the defendant, or
the credits and other personal property in his possession
or under his control, belonging to the defendant, are
attached in pursuance of such writ.
Levy of attachment—Sheriff's duties as to, "Whitney v. Butterfield, 
500; and compare 12 Cal. 198; 43 Cal. 119.
Subdivision 1. Real property In defendant's name—8 Cal. 25;
II Cal. 247; 19 Cal. 45; 43 Cal. 206, 577.
Subdivision 2. Other real property—Leviable interest, 22 Cal. 645;
36 Cal. 313; 45 Cal. 162.
Subdivision 3. Personal property, mannally removable—At
tachment lien, officer's, Civil Code, sec. 3057; replevin, does not affect,
llCal.262.
Leviable
In pledged
property,seesubd.5;
mort
gaged
property,
Civilinterest,
Code, sees.
2968-2970;
in crops, 17 Cal. 541;in of
cotenant, 51 Cal. 609; of lessee, 52 Cal. 319. Custody under levy, 7 CaL
549; 12 Cal. 412; 25 Cal. 556: Rogersu. Gillmore, 51 Cal. 309. Fraudulent
transfers, Civil Code, sees. 1227, 3431, 8432, 3439-42.
Subdivision 4. Stocks, shares, etc., garnishment of—5 Cal. 186;
7 CaL 162; 9 Cal. 78; agent of corporation, service on, 38 Cal. 153.
Subdivision 5. Debts and credits, garnishment of—debt, what

§ 543. Upon receiving information in writing from
the plaintifff or his attorney, that any person has in his
possession or under his control any credits or other per
sonal property belonging to the defendant, or is owing
any debt to the defendant, the sheriff must serve upon
such person a copy of the writ and a notice that such
credits, or other property, or debts, as the case may be,
are
Sheriff,
attached,
duties in
of-see
pursuance
sec. 540».of such writ.
§ 544. All persons having in their possession or under
their control any credits or other personal property be
longing to the defendant, or owing any debts to the
defendant, at the time of service upon them of a copy of
the writ and notice, as provided in the last two sections,
shall be, unless such property be delivered up or trans
ferred, or such debts be paid to the sheriff, liable to the
plaintifff for the amount of such credits, property, or
ebts, until the attachment he discharged, or any judg
ment recovered by him be satisfied.
Garnishment,
Similar provision as to execution—sec. 716.
§ 545. Any person owing debts to the defendant, or
having in his possession or under his control any credits
or other personal property belonging to the defendant,
may be required to attend before the court or judge, or a
referee appointed by the court or judge, and be examined
on oath respecting the same. The defendant may also be
required to attend, for the purpose of giving information
respecting his property, and may be examined on oath.
The court or judge may, after Buch examination, order
personal property, capable of manual delivery, to be de
livered to the sheriff on such terms as may be just, having
reference to any liens thereon or claims against the
Bame, and a memorandum to be given of all other per
sonal property, containing the amount and description
thereof.
Garnishee—order for examination of, 9 Cal. 262; examination of, 4
Cal. 409; discharge of, 3 Cal. 253; answer of, 5 Cal. 118; liability of, 6
Cal. 16; 11 Cal. 343.
Defendant—scope of examination of, 51 Cal. 316.
Compare—proceedings supplementary to execution, sees. 714-721.
§ 546. The sheriff must make a full inventory of the
property attached, and return the same with the writ. To
enable him to make such return as to debts and credits
attached, he must request, at the time of service, the
party owing the debt or having the credit to give him a
memorandum, stating the amount and description of
each; and if such memorandum be refused, he must re
turn the fact of refusal with the writ. The party refusing
to give the memorandum may be required to pay the
costs of any proceedings taken for the purpose of obtain
ing information respecting the amounts and description
of such debt or credit.
Sheriff's return-5 Cal. 53; 6 Cal. 85; 8 Cal. 21 ; 11 Cal. 238; 43 Cal. 577.
Sheriff's duties—sec. 540n, 36 Cal. 105.
§ 547. If any of the property attached be perishable,
the sheriff must sell the same in the manner in which
such property is sold on execution. The proceeds and
other property attached by him must be retained by him
to answer any judgment that may be recovered, in the
action, unless sooner subjected to execution upon another
judgment, recovered previous to the issuing of the attach
ment. Debts and credits attached may be collected by
him, if the same can be done without suit. The sheriff's
receipt is a sufficient discharge for the amount paid.
Sale on attachment—see. 548n.
J 548. "Whenever property has been taken by an
cer under a writ of attachment, and it is made to ap
pear satisfactorily to the court or a judge thereof, that
the interest of the parties to the action will be subserved
by a sale thereof, the court or judge may order such prop
erty to be Bold in the same manner as property is sold
under an execution, and the proceeds to be deposited in
the court, to abide the judgment in the action. Such
order can be made only upon notice to the adverse party
or his attorney, in case such party has been personally
served with a summons in the action. [In effect March
9th, 1880.]
Sale on attachment—49 Cal. 297.
§ 549. If any personal property attached be claimed
by a third person as his property, the sheriff may sum
mon a jury of six men to try the validity of such claim,
and such proceedings shall be had thereon, with the like
effect, as in case of a claim after levy upon execution.
Sheriff's jury—see see. 689; 8 Cal. 227.
Indemnity bond—8 Cal. 227; 34 Cal. 629; notice to sureties on, sea.
1055.
§ 550. If judgment be recovered by the plaintifff, the
sheriff must satisfy the same out of the property attached
by him which has not been delivered to the defendant or
a claimant as hereinbefore provided, or subjected to exe
cution on another judgment, recovered previous to the
issuing of the attachment, if it be sufficient for that pur
pose:
1. By paying to the plaintifff the proceeds of all sales of
perishable property sold by him, or of any debts or cred
its collected by him, or so much as shall be necessary to
satisfy the judgment;
2. If any balance remain due, and an execution shall
have been issued on the judgment, he must sell under the
execution so much of the property, real or personal, as
may be necessary to satisfy the balance, if enough for
that purpose remain in his hands. Notices of the sales
must be given, and the sales conducted as in other cases
of sales on execution.
Sheriff's dnties as to sale-sec. 540»; 8 Cal. 570; 9 Cal. 538; 14 Cal.
666; 25 Cal. 542.
CODE Civ. Peoc—1*.
Disposition of proceeds—liability of officer, Political Code, sec.
<U1; 6 Cal.see
196;6 10
generally,
Cal.Cal.376;486;30 28Cal.Cal.114.286: creditor's rights, 21 CaL 172: aud
Sales on execution—sees. 692-709.
§ 551. If, after selling all the property attached by
him remaining in his hands, and applying the proceeds,
together with the proceeds of any debts or credits col
lected by him, deducting his fees, to the payment of the
judgment, any balance shall remain due, the sheriff must
proceed to collect such balance as upon an execution in
other cases. Whenever the judgment shall have been
paid, the sheriff, upon reasonable demand, must deliver
over to the defendant the attached property remaining in
his hands, and any proceeds of the property attached un
applied on the judgment.
Surplus—7 Cal. 144; and see sec. 540n.
Payment of judgment—45 Cal. 616.
§ 552. If the execution be returned unsatisfied in
whole or in part, the plaintifff may prosecute any under
taking given pursuant to section five hundred and forty,
or section live hundred and fifty-five, or he may proceed
asCounter-bond
in other cases
to prevent
upon the
attachment-sec.
return of an540n;
execution.
6 CaL 277.
Bond for release after appearance—sec. 555n.
§ 553. If the defendant recover judgment against the
plaintifff, any undertaking received in the action, all the
proceeds of sales and money collected by the sheriff, and
all the property attached remaining in the sheriff's hands,
must be delivered to the defendant or his agent ; the or
der of attachment shall be discharged, and the property
released
Attachment
therefrom.
dissolved—by judgment for defendant, 29 Cal. 316.
§ 554. Whenever the defendant has appeared in the
action, he may, upon reasonable notice to the plaintifff, ap*
ply to the court in which the action is pending, or to the
judge thereof, for an order to discharge the attachment,
wholly or in part ; and upon the execution of the under
taking mentioned in the next section, an order may be
made, releasing from the operation of the attachment any
or all of the property attached; and all of the property so
released, and all of the proceeds of the sales thereof,
must be delivered to the defendant, upon the justification
of the sureties on the undertaking, if required by the
plaintifff. [In effect March 9th, 1880.1
Appearance—sec. 1014.
Bond to discharge attachment—sec. 555w.
§ 555. Before making such order, the court or judge
must require an undertaking on behalf of the defendant,
by at least two sureties, residents and freeholders, or
householders, in the State, to the effect that in case the
plaintifff recover judgment in the action, defendant will,
on demand, redeliver the attached property so released to
the proper officer, to be applied to the payment of the
judgment,
or, in
defendant
sureties •will,
on default
demand,thereof,
pay tothat
thethe
plaintifff
the and
full
value of the property released. The court or judge mak
ing such order may fix the sum for which the undertaking
must be executed, and if necessary in fixing such sum to
know the value of the property released, the same may
be appraised by one or more disinterested persons, to be
appointed for that purpose. ' The sureties may be required
to justify before the court or judge, and the property
attached cannot be released from the attachment without
their justification, if the same be required. [In effect
July
Undertakings,
1st, 1874.]generally—sees. 259, subd. 3; 495; 581, subd. 1; 941n,
1057.
Undertaking to release attachment—liability of sureties, 6 Cal. 651 ;
9 Cal. April
501; 186th,
Cal.1880;
339; counter-bond
26 Cal. 535 ; 29toCal.
194; effect
of, Harding
v. Mi.
near,
prevent
attachment,
sec. 540ra.
§ 556. The defendant may also at any time, either be
fore or after the release of the attached property, or
before any attachment shall have been actually levied,
aPPly on motion, upon reasonable notice to the plaintifff,
to the court in which the action is brought, or to a judge
thereof, that the writ of attachment be discharged on the
ground that the same was improperly or irregularly
issued. [In effect March 9th, 1880.]
.incurable
Dissolution—points
of Irregularity
be specified,
10 Cal. 337;is
informality essential,
33 Cal. must
168; not
when undertaking
sufficient, Goodwins. Buckley, March 11th, 1880.
§ 557. If the motion be made upon affidavits on the
part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff
May oppose the same by affidavits or other evidence, in
addition to those on which the attachment was made.
On affidavits—compare application to dissolve Injunction, sec. 532.
•§ 558. If, upon such application, it satisfactorily ap
pears that the writ of attachment was improperly or ir
regularly issued, it must be discharged.
§ 559. The sheriff must return the writ of attachment
with the summons, if issued at the same time ; otherwise,
within twenty days after its receipt, with a certificate of
his proceedings indorsed thereon or attached thereto; and
whenever an order has been made discharging or releas
ing an attachment upon real property, a certified copy of
such order may be filed in the offices of the county re
corders in which the notices of attachment have been
filed, and be indexed in like manner. [Approved March
3rd, 1876.]
Sheriff's duties—sec. MOn.
Sheriff's return—sec. 546n.
Notices of attachment filed—sec. 542, subds. 1 and 2.
§ 564. A receiver may be appointed by the court in
which an action is pending, or by the judge thereof :
1. In an action by a vendor to vacate a fraudulent pur
chase of property, or by a creditor to subject any property
or fund to his claim, or between partners or others jointly
owning or interested in any property or fund, on the ap
plication of the plaintifff, or of any party whose right to
or interest in the property or fund, or the proceeds thereof,
is probable, and where it is shown that the property or
fund is in danger of being lost, removed, or materially in
jured;
2. In an action by a mortgagee for the foreclosure of his
mortgage and sale of the mortgaged property, where it
appears that the mortgaged property is in danger of being
lost, removed, or materially injured, or that the condition
of the mortgage lias not been performed, and that the
property is probably insufficient to discharge the mort
gage debt;
3. After judgment, to carry the judgment into effect ;
4. After judgment, to dispose of the property according
to the judgment, or to preserve it during the pendency of
an appeal, or in proceedings in aid of execution, when an
execution has been returned unsatisfied, or when the
judgment debtor refuses to apply his property in satisfac
tion of the judgment;
5. In the cases when a corporation has been dissolved,
or is insolvent, or in imminent danger of insolvency, or
has forfeited its corporate rights ;
6. In all other cases where receivers have heretofore
been appointed by the usages of courts of equity.
Receiver generally—appointment of, 3 Cal. 386; custody of, 8 Cal.
540;
9 CaLr.28.TheKecent
leading
cases:
Case,Further,
53 Cal. 495;
Bateman
Superior
Court,
etc.,French
March Bank
6th, 1880.
see
5 Cal. 494; 8 Cal. 306; 16 Cal. 146; 22 Cal. 191; 25 Cal. 11; 35 Cal. 476.
Action, when pending—sec. 1049.
Power of judge—at chambers, sees. 166, 176; of court commissioner,
sec. 259; of county judge, as to receivers, before Const. 1879, see 13
Cal. 630.
Subdivision 1. -Vendor, creditor, partner—as to last, see 3 Cal.
383.
Party applying—63 Cal. 553.
Danger of loss or injury—see 3 Cal. 386.
Subdivision 2. Foreclosure—before this statute, 6 Cal. 99.
Subdivisions 3 and 4. After judgment—26 Cal. 447.
Subdivision 5. Corporation—insolvent, see French Bank Case, 53
Cal. 495; dissolved, see sec. 565.
Subdivision 6. Equity usage—French Bank Case, 53 CaL 495;
Bateman v. Superior Court, March 6th, 1880.
,
§ 565. Upon the dissolution of any corporation, the
Superior Court of the county in which the corporation
carries on its business, or has its principal place of bus
iness, on application of any creditor of the corporation,
or of any stockholder or member thereof, may appoint
one or more persons to be receivers or trustees of the cor
poration, to take charge of the estate and effects thereof,
and to collect the debts and property due and belonging
to the corporation, and to pay the outstanding debts
thereof, and to divide the monies and other, property that
shall remain over, among the stockholders or members.
[In effect March 9th, 1880.]
Dissolution—Involuntary, Civil Code, see sees. 399, 400, and this
Code, sec. 802 et seq. Voluntary, sec. 1227 et seq., post.
§ 566. No party, or attorney, or person interested in an
action, can be appointed receiver therein, without the
written consent of the parties, filed with the clerk. If a
receiver be appointed upon an ex parte application, the
court, before making the order, may require from the ap
plicant an undertaking with sufficient sureties, in an
amount to be fixed by the court, to the effect that the ap
plicant will pay to the defendant all damages he may
sustain by reason of the appointment of such receiver
and the entry by him upon his duties, in case the appli
cant shall have procured such appointment wrongfully,
maliciously, or without sufficient cause, and the court
may, in its discretion, at any time after said appointment,
require an additional undertaking. [In effect July 1st,
1874.]
Undertakings generally—see sec. 555n.
§ 567. Before entering upon his duties, the receiver
must be sworn to perform them faithfully, and with one
or more sureties, approved by the court or judge, execute
an undertaking to such person, and in such sum as the
court or judge may direct, to the effect that he will faith
fully discharge the duties of receiver in the action, and
ohey the orders of the court therein.
Bond of receiver—Political Code, sees. 981, 982, and sees. 947-986,
generally.
. .
§ 568. The receiver has, under the control of the court,
power to bring and defend actions in his own name, as
receiver; to take and keep possession of the property, to
receive rents, collect debts, to compound for and com
promise the same, to make transfers, and generally to do
such acts respecting the property as the court may au
thorize.
Duties of receiver—6 Cal. 475; 15 Cal. 207; 26 Cal. 448.
§ 569. Funds in the hands of a receiver may be in
vested upon interest, by order of the court ; but no such
order can be made, except upon the consent of all the
parties to the action.
§ 572. When it is admitted by the pleading, or shown
upon the examination of a party, that he has in his pos
session, or under his control, any money or other thing
capable of delivery, which, being the subject of litigation,
is held by him as trustee for another party, or which helongs or is duo to another party, the court may order the
same, upon motion, to be deposited in court or delivered
to such party, upon such conditions as may be just, sub
ject to the further direction of the court.
Money—must be in party's possession, 51 Cal. 442.
§ 573. If the money is deposited in court, it must be
paid to the clerk, who must deposit it with the county
treasurer, by him to be held subject to the order of the
court. For the safe keeping of the money deposited with
him the treasurer is liable on his official bond.
Deposit with clerk—sec. 2104.
Money in treasurer's hands—liable to taxation, SO Cal. 242.
§ 574. Whenever, in the exercise of its authority, a
court has ordered the deposit or delivery of money or
other thing, and the order is disobeyed, the court, besides
punishing the disobedience, may make an order requiring
the sheriff to take the money or thing and deposit or de
liver it in conformity with the direction of the court.
Punishing the disobedience—contempt, sec. 1209; 61 Cal. 442.
Sheriff's duties—as to official monies, Political Code, sec. 4181.
§ 577. A judgment is the final determination of the
rights of the parties in an action or proceeding.
Judgment—confession by, sec. 1132; default by, sec. 585; demurrer
on, sec. 636; estoppel as to, sec. 1908; generally, 664n; nonsuit, of, sec.
581;
pleadings,
on, 1sec.
§ 578. Judgment may be given for or against one or
more of several plaintifffs, and for or against one or more
of several defendants; and it may, when the justice of
the case requires it, determine the ultimate rights of the
parties on each side, as between themselves.
Parties to judgments—adding and striking out, sees. 389, 473n; ser
vice on less than all, sees. 388, 414; joint defendants, sees. 383, 989.
Judgments for or against some—liability of part, 1 Cal. 167; 6 Cal.
176; 18 Cal. 400,402; 39 Cal. 95,412: waiver as tojoinder, sec.434, 8 Cal. 514;
21damages,
Cal. 635;etc.,42 see
Cal.7 Cal.
335; 152;
47 Cal.
221;514;and49 Cal.
as to155;trespass,
8 Cal.
McCoolapportioning
v. Mahoney,
April 6th, 1880: nonsuit as to some parties, sec. 58In.
§ 579. In an action against several defendants, the
court may, in its discretion, render judgment against one
or more of them, leaving the action to proceed against the
others, whenever a several judgment is proper.
Parties to judgments—sec. 578n.
Defendants
served—no
2 Cal.
89; 10 Cal. and
611;
Dlggins
v. Beay,notApril
7th, 1880.judgment
See also,against,
SEVERAL
JUDGMENT,
Joint Debtors, infra, and compare sec. 414.
Joint debtors—proceedings against, sec. 989, and see Several
Judgment, infra.
Several judgment—when proper: Several liability, where, though
defendants
Cal.liability,
191,470. where,
Joint and
several
where, 8 Cal.joined,
286 ; 29 sec.
Cal. 383:
429. 1Joint
against
thoseliability'
served
only,
§ 580. The relief granted to the plaintifff, if there be
no answer, cannot exceed that which he shall have de
manded in his complaint; hut in any other case, the court
may grant him any relief consistent with the case made
hy the complaint and embraced within the issue.
EXTENT OF RELIEF.
Default, judgment by—demand of complaint limits relief, 11 Cal.
19; 20 Cal. 91,628 ; 22 Cal. 645 ; 27 Cal. 102; 29 Cal. 165; 34 Cal. 79: but
judgment beyond, not void, 3D Cal. 531; 41 Cal. 256.
Judgment where answer—Relief confined by complaint, 1 Cal. 479; 2
Cal. 256 ; 28 Cal. 294; 50 Cal. 550 ; 51 Cal. 151, 537 ; 52 Cal. 550: but asking
too
relief,
Cal. 627 :23verdict
confines
judgment,
2 Cat.
192: much
striking
outharmless,
prayer is49waiver,
Cal. 232:
any relief
covered
by
complaint,
34
Cal.
73;
48
Cal.
171
;
53
Cal.
287.
Relief
beyond
complaint,
In excess of prayer, 2 Cal. 283; 10 Cal. 299; 22 Cal. 633; 27 Cal. 656; 35 Cal.
306; 37 Cal. 301: increasing damages, 27 Cal. 35: adding interest, 28 Cal.
628: different from that asked, 32 Cal. 639 ; 48 Cal. 171: answer as aiding
complaint, Harden v. "Ware, April 7th, 1880.
BELIEF GENERALLY.
Affirmative—in answer, see New Matter, sec. 437n.
Answer—where, and where none, see notes as to Judgment, supra.
Averments—for, see notes as to Judgment, tupra.
Compensatory—Civil Code, sec. 3274.
Complaint—within and beyond, see notes as to Judgment, supra;
demand of, in, see sec. 426, subd. 3.
Damages—see note to sec. 657, subd. 5.
Equitable—see Specific, Preventive, and special heads like
Fraud, Trust, etc. under Belief in Particular Cases, infra;
also,
8,523 48
; 52Cal.
Cal.386;
656.49 Cal. 451 ; 50 Cal. 105, 195, 276, 422, 498, 549, 553; 51 Cal.
Judgment, from—sec. 473n.
Legal—see principalheads underRelief in Particular Cases,
infra.
Maintaining actions—see Legal.
Prayer for—when significant, 24 Cal. 61; 34 Cal. 375.
Preventive—Generally, Civil Codek sees. 3366, 3368, 3369. Final in
junction. Civil Code, sees. 3422, 3423; 28 Cal. 84: 39 Cal. 292; 47 Cal. 481 ;

RELIEF IN PARTICULAR OASES. _
Accounting—See Partnership. Account stated—9 Cal. 360: 13
Cal. 427. Administrator—38 Cal. 21 ; 50 Cal. 496. Breach of promise
of marriage—Hanks t>. Naglee, Dec. 26th, 1879; Bolgnieres t>. Boulon,
Feb. 7th, 1880. Cotenant-see Ejectment, Replevin, Teotib.

§ 581. An aotion may be dismissed, or a judgment of
nonsuit entered, in the following cases :
1st. By the plaintifff himself, at any time before trial,
upon payment of costs; provided, a counterclaim has not
been made or affirmative relief sought by the cross-com
plaint or answer of defendant. If a provisional remedy
has been allowed, the undertaking must thereupon be de
livered by the clerk to the defendant, who may have his
action thereon.
2nd. By either party, upon the written consent of the
other;
3rd. By the court, when the plaintifff fails to appear on
the trial, and the defendant appears and asks for the dis
missal;
4th. By the court, when, upon the trial and before the
final submission of the case, the plaintifff abandons it ;
5th. By the court, upon motion of the defendant, when,
upon the trial, the plaintifff fails to prove a sufficient case
for the jury.
The dismissal mentioned in the first two subdivisions is
made by an entry in the clerk's register. Judgment may
thereupon be entered accordingly. [Approved February
25th, 1878.]
DISMISSAL OR NONSUIT.
Nonsuit— suMs. 4 and 5; effect of, 47 Cal. 545.
Dismissal—subds. 1, 2, and 3 ; improper, remedy for, 60 Cal. 444.
Section generally—3 Cal. 185; 4 Cal. 117; 13 Cal. 40, 637; 14 Cal. 576;
15 Cal. 387; 18 Cal. 76; 20 Cal. 92, 586; 22 Cal. 100, 463; 27 Cal. 470; 29 Cal.
147, 264; 32 Cal. 488; 39 Cal. 224 ; 47 Cal. 547 ; 53 Cal. 386.
Subdivision 1. By plaintifff, before trial—22 Cal. 102; 32 Cal. 488.
Exceptions—where counterclaim, sec. 438; 29 Cal. 264; 33 Cal. 496; or
where
cross^omplaint,
442:
or 31.
its atequivalent,
Cal.4.496:Trial,
but other
wise
Subdivision
before
amdt.3.2. 1878,
No
Bysec.
see
appearance
consent—not
53 Cal.
oral,
trial—see
47 Cal.33subd.
542.
bring
ing on, sec. 594.
4. Abandonment at trial—13 Cal. 637; 18 Cal. 77; 22
CaLSubdivision
102.
§ 585. Judgment may be had, if the defendant fail to
answer the complaint, as follows :
1. In an action arising upon contract for the recovery of
money or damages only, if no answer has been filed with
the clerk of the court within the time specified in the sum
mons, or such further time as may have been granted, the
clerk, upon application of the plaintifff, must enter the de
fault of the defendant, and immediately thereafter enter
judgment for the amount specified in the summons, in
cluding the costs, against the defendant, or against one or
more of several defendants in the cases provided for in
section four hundred and fourteen.
2. In other actions, if no answer has been filed with the
clerk of the court within the time specified in the sum
mons, or such further time as may have been granted,
the clerk must enter the default of the defendant; and
thereafter the plaintifff may apply at the first or any sub
sequent term of the court for the relief demanded in the
complaint. If the taking of an account, or the proof of
any fact, is necessary, to enable the court to give judg
ment, or to carry the judgment into effect, the court may
take the account or hear the proof; or may, in its discre
tion, order a reference for that purpose. And where the
action is for the recovery of damages, in whole or in part,
the court may order the damages to be assessed by a jury;
or if, to determine the amount of damages, the examina
tion of a long account be involved, by a reference as above
provided.
3. In actions where the service of the summons was by
publication, the plaintifff, upon the expiration of the time
for answering, may, upon proof of the publication, and
that no answer has been filed, apply for judgment ; and
the court must thereupon require proof to be made of the
demand mentioned in the complaint; and if the defend
ant or
iff,
behis
notagent,
a resident
to beofexamined
the State, must
on oath,
require
respecting
the plaint
any
payments that have been made to the plaintifff, or to any
one for his use, on account ef such demand, and may
render judgment for the amount which he is entitled to
recover.
JUDGMENT BY DEFAULT.
Judgment generally—sees. 577n, 577-582, 664b, 661-675.
Judgment on pleadings—infra.
Default judgment, generally-^-asslgnment of, 23 Cal. 255 ; 25 Cal. 539:
opening,corporation,
sec. 473n : despite
failure
furnish
particulars,
634 :
against
9 Cal. 456:
11 Cal.to250:
further,
see 1 Cal.3294:Cal.6 Cal.
173; 9 Cal. 130; 10 Cal. 441, 555; 15 Cal. 23; 16 Cal. 3el; 21 Cal. 425; 27 Cal.
102; 30 Cal. 92, 202, 530 ; 37 Cal. 465; 40 Cal. 439.
Subdivision 1. On money contract—No answer filed, 34 Cal. 25.
Entry
of defendant's
18 Cal.
420; 45generally,
Cal. 462; 1Maud
v. Wear,
May 17tn,
1880. Entrydefault,
of default
judgment,
Cal. 131;
7 Cal.
449; 17 Cal. 565 ; 28 Cal. 650 ; 30 Cal. 182; 35 Cal. 40; 53 Cal. 253: where
complaint insufficient, 11 Cal. 258: 14 Cal. 210: on defective summons,
1 Caf.416;
2Cal.242;
8 Cal. 625: ;where
28 Cal. fictitious
153; 41 Cal.names
316; and
see sec. 407n,3
as
to contents
of summons
of defendants,
Cal. 235; 6 Cal. 415; 14 Cal. 119; 23 Cal. 92; 27 Cal. 99: where no answer,
after demurrer overruled, or answer stricken out, sec. 636 ; 18 Cal. 625 ;
20 Cal.
Default
judgment
must46:follow

SUBDIVISION 2. In other actions—Entry of defendant's default, no
answer filed, see notes to subd. 1. Relief, sec. 580, and notes. Reference,
sec. 638 et seq. Assessment of damages, 6 Cal. 156; 31 Cal. 239. Proof
required, sees. 580, 1869; and as to trial by court, see sec. 631 et seq.
Subdivision 3. Where summons published—see notes to subd.
2; 23 Cal. 92.
JUDGMENT ON PLEADrNGS.
Motion for, grounds of—Insufficiency of answer, 4 Cal. 204 ; 34 Cal. 46,
§ 588. Issues arise upon the pleadings when a fact or
conclusion of law is maintained by the one party, and is
controverted by the other. They are of two kinds :
1. Of law; and,
2. Of fact.
See sees. 589, 590.
§ 589. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the
complaint or answer, or to some part thereof.
§ 590. An issue of fact arises—
1. Upon a material allegation in the complaint contro
verted by the answer ; and,
2. Upon new matters in the answer, except an issue of
law ia joined thereon.
§ 591. An issue of law must be tried by the court, un
less it is referred upon consent.
Trial by court—generally, sec. 631 et seq.
§ 592. In actions for the recovery of specific real or
personal property, with or without damages, or for money
claimed as due upon contract, or as damages for breach of
contract, or for injuries, an issue of fact must be tried by
a jury, unless a jury trial is waived, or a reference is
ordered, as provided in this Code. Where in these cases
there are issues both of law and fact, the issue of law
must be first disposed of. In other cases, issues of fact
must be tried by the court, subject to its power to order
any such issue to be tried by a jury, or to be referred to a
referee, as provided in this Code. [In effect July 1st,
1874.]
Issues offact, trial of—generally, 6 Cat. 122; 9 Cal. 251; 21 Cal. 425; 23
Cal.335; 60 Cal. 605.
Trial by j ory—in actions at law : generally, as to jury trial, see sees.
600-«28: as to fraud, 10 Cal. 412.
Waiver of jury trial—sec. 631 ; Sherman v. McCarthy, March 3rd,
1880.
Reference—sees. 638-645.
Issue of law, prior disposition of—20 Cal. 116; 32 Cal. 208.
Court, trial by—sees. 631-636: aid of jury, 19 Cal. 457: reference,
supra.
Equity cases—distinguished from law cases, 15 Cal. 379: equitable
defenses, issues before jury, etc., 13 Cal. 644; 15 Cal. 379; 16 Cal. 173; 19
Cal. 457; 30 Cal. 519; 38 Cal. 319; 42 Cal. 338 : 49 Cal. 126; 50 Cal. 105: gen
erally, 4 Cal. 6; 5 Cal. 192; 8 Cal. 501; 16 Cal. 249.
§ 593. The clerk must enter causes upon the calendar
of the court according to the date of issue. Causes once
placed on the calendar must remain upon the calendar
until finally disposed of; provided, that causes may be
dropped from the calendar by consent of parties, and may
be again restored upon notice. [In effect March 9th, 1880.]
Clerk placing on calendar—mandamus for failure, sec. 1085.
Issue—generally, sec. 588.
Dropping and restoring—amdt. of 1880.
Abolition of terms—see Const. Cal. art. 6, sec. 5.
§ 594. Either party may bring an issue to trial or to a
hearing, and in the absence of tho adverse party, unless,
the court, for good cause, otherwise direct, may proceed
with his case, and take a dismissal of the action, or a ver
dict
Dismissal—sec.
or judgment,
581. as the case may require.
395.Judgment for want of evidence—defendant not appearing, 53 Cal.
Want of prosecution, dismissal for—delay as to summons, sec.
410n:
47 Cal. 614:
generally,
Cal.
45appeal
Cal. 107;for47delay,
Cal. 638;damages
50 Cal. on,
38:
motion,
may187:
not where
make,3642plaintifff
Cal.625;
285:not
sec. 957 ; who
53 Cal.
found, 39 Cal. 106:
vacating
judgment for surprise, etc. sec. 473n : new trial, sec. 657 and notes.
§ 595. A motion to postpone a trial on the ground of
the absence of evidence can only be made upon affidavit
showing the materiality of the evidence expected to be
obtained, and that due diligence has been used to procure
It. A. trial shall be postponed when it appears to the
court that the attorney of record, party, or principal wit
ness is actually engaged in attendance upon a session of
the Legislature of this State as a member thereof. The
court may require the moving party, where application is
made on account of the absence of a material witness, to
state upon affidavit the evidence which he expects to ob
tain ; and if the adverse party thereupon admits that such
evidence would be given, and that it be considered, as
actually given on the trial, or offered and overruled as im
proper, the trial must not be postponed. [In effect March
2nd, 1880.]
Postponement, grounds of—affidavit for, etc. see Continuance.
CONTINUANCE.
Admission—by opponent, extent of, 41 Cal. 521.
Affidavits—showing
Absence
witness,
Expected
Materiality
of evidence,in:4 Cal.
241; of
43 Cal.
344;see
Kern
valley evidence.
Bank r.
Chester,
June
3rd,
1880,
5
Pac.
C.
L.
J.
520.
Hue
diligence,
4 Cal.Valley
241 : 8
Cal. 48, 89; 17 Cal. Y23; 29 Cal. 563 ; 45 Cal. 280; 47 Cal. 162; Kern
Bank v. Chester, June 3rd, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 620. Expected evidence,

June 3rd, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 520.
Bad faith-46 Cal. 114.
Costs on—sec. 1029.
Counsel—absence of, 19 Cal. 118: mistake of, 9 Cal. 212: 35 Cal. 452:
sickness
Depositions—of
of, 4 Cal. 190;
absent
41 Cal.
witnesses,
626. postponement for taking, 2 Cal.
473, 598.
Diligence, due—see Affidavits.
Discretion—decision as to continuance, Is matter of, 9 Cal. 212; 11
Cal. 161 ; 20 Cal. 181 ; 23 Cal. 157 ; 32 Cal. 102.
Evidence—absence of, diligence, expected, materiality of, see Af
fidavits.
Generally, 1 Cal. 404 ; 2 Cal. 183, 270; 3 Cal. 185; 6 Cal. 249; 7 Cal. 418;
14 Grounds
Cal. 358;^1for—see
Cal. 95;Affidavits,
53 Cal. 491. Counsel, Depositions, Pabtt.
Legislature—attendance at, as ground for; inserted In section by
amdt. 1880.
Materiality—of evidence. See Affidavits.
Party, absence of—32 Cal. 102.
Review
decision
as to—see
on trial,
bill of11exceptions,
only
whereofrefusal,
47 Cal.
162: onDiscretion:
motion for new
Cal. 21; 20
Cal. 450; and see 17 Cal. 316.
Showing for—see Affidavits.
Stipulation as to—must be In writing. See note to sec. 283, subd. I§ 596. The party obtaining a postponement of a trial
in any court of record must, if required by the adverse
party, consent that the testimony of any witness of such
adverse party, who is in. attendance, be then taken by
deposition before a judge or clerk of the court in which
the case is pending, or before such notary public as the
court may indicate, which must accordingly be done, and
the testimony so taken may be read on the trial, with the
same effect, and subject to the same objections, as if the
witnesses were produced.
Depositions—in the State, sees. 2019-2021, 2031-2038.
'chapter IV.
§ 600. "When the action is called for trial by jury, the
clerk must draw from the trial jury box of the court the
ballots containing the names of the jurors, until the jury
is completed or the ballots are exhausted.
Jury—generally, sec. 190, and note : trial jury, sees. 193, 194.
Trial by jury—conduct of, sec. 607 et eeq. : waiver of, sec. 631 : ver
dict after, sec. 624 etseq.
Trial jury box—sec. 246.
Jury completed—45 Cal. 323.
§ 601. Either party may challenge the jurors ; but where
there are several parties on either side, they must join in
a challenge before it can be made. The challenges are to
individual jurors, and are either peremptory or for cause.
Each party is entitled to four peremptory challenges. If
no peremptory challenges are taken until the panel is full,
they must be taken by the parties alternately, commenc
ing with the plaintifff. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Challenge for cause—sec. 202, and note.
Peremptory challenge, when taken—see Examination of JU• rors, extent of : criminal cases, 37 Cal. 676.
Examination of jurors—object of, 23 Cal. 376 : extent of, 45 Cal. 323.
Formation of jury—Irregularity in, must be substantial, 6 Cal. 405; 9
Cal. 529 ; 32 Cal. 40.
§ 602. Challenges for cause may be taken on one or
more of the following grounds :
1. A want of any of the qualifications prescribed by
this Code to render a person competent as a juror;
2. Consanguinity or affinity within the fourth degree to
any party;
3. Standing in the relation of guardian and ward, mas
ter and servant, employer and clerk, or principal and
agent, to either party, or being a member or the family of
either party, or a partner in business with either party, or
surety on any bond or obligation for either party;
4. Saving served as a juror or been a witness on a pre
vious trial between the same parties, for the same cause
of action:
5. Interest on the part of the juror in the event of the
action, or in the main question involved in the action, ex
cept his interest as a member or citizen of a municipal
corporation;
6. Having an unqualified opinion or belief as to the
merits of the action, founded upon knowledge of its ma
terial facts, or of some of them;
7. The existence of a state of mind in the juror evinc
ing enmity against or bias to or against either party. [In
effect July 1st, 1874.]
Challenge for cause, sufficiency of—Specifying grounds, 12 Cal. 483:
criminal cases, 37 Cal. 277; 41 Cal. 37. Objection, when to be made, 1 Cal.
38; 18 Cal. 109.
GROUNDS OF CHALLENGE FOR CAUSec.
Subdivision 1. Incompetency—sees. 198, 199, and notes; also, see
note to subd. 4, infra, and 47 Cal. 388.
Subdivision
sec.
170, subd. 2. 2. Consanguinity or affinity—generally, see note to
Subdivision 3. Close relations to either party—see notes to sultds.
2andS.
Previous trial, serving or testifying at—14 Cal.
168,Subdivision
and see 18 Cal.4. 109.
Subdivision 5. Interest of juror—as to interest generally, see 37
Cal. 190.
Subdivision18 6.Cal.Unqualified
possession
discretionary,
109, and -ceeopinion,
47 Cal. 388:
formationof—excusingfor,
or expression
of,
former
requirement.
11
Cal.
09:
degree
conviction
necessary,
(implied bias ill criminal cases) lli Cal. 129; 17ofCal.
142; 22 Cal.
349; 27
CaL 507; 40 Cal. 268; 45 Cal. 137; 46 Cal. 78; 48 Cal. 253; 49 Cal. 174.
Subdivision 7. Bias—review of decision as to, 49 Cal. 560; 50 Cal.
222: existence of, 5 Cal. 347 ; 38 Cal. 51.
§ 603. Challenges for cause must be tried by the court.
The juror challenged and any other person may be exam
ined as a witness on the trial of the challenge.
Jurors, examination of—see sec. 601«.
of court—decision
prejudicial,
47Discretion
Cal. 388; 49 Cal.
679; 50 Cal. 222;notand
see notes41toCal.
sec.429:603,generally.
subds. 6
and 7.
§ 604. As soon as the jury is completed, an oath must
be administered to the jurors, in substance, that the.v
and each of them will well and truly try the matter in
issue between
, the plaintifff, and
, defendant, and
a true verdict render, according to the evidence.
Oathj administration of—see sees. 2093-2097.
ARTICLE II.
Conduct or the Tkial.
5S 607.
Order oftoproceedings
on trial.must furnish, In writing, upon re
COS. Charge
the jury. Court
quest, the points of law contained therein.
5 609.
Specialbyinstructions.
610.
View
thejury
premises.
§ji 611.
614.
613.
612. Admonition
May
Jury
Deliberation
come
mayjury
take
into
when
ofofwith
court
Jury,
them
for
how
permitted
further
certain
conducted.
instructions.
papers.
to separate.
§ 616.
615. When
Proceedings
prevented
In casefrom
a juror
giving
becomes
verdict,sick.
the cause may bo again
tried.
§ 617. While jury are absent, court may adjourn from time to time.
Sealed verdict. Final adjournment discharges the jury.
§ 618. Verdict, how declared. Form of. Polling the Jury.
§ 619. Proceedings when verdict is Informal.
§ 607. When the jury has been sworn, the trial must
proceed iu the following order, unless the judge, for
special reasons, otherwise directs :
1. The plaintifff, after stating the issue and his case,
must produce the evidence on his part ;
2. The defendant may then open his defense, and offer
his evidence in support thereof;
3. The parties may then respectively offer rebutting
evidence only, unless the court, for good reason, in fur
therance of justice, permit them to offer evidence upon
their original case ;
4. When the evidence is concluded, unless the case is
submitted to the jury on either side, or on both sides,
without argument, the plaintifff must commence and may
conclude the argument;
5. If several defendants, having separate defenses, ap
pear by different counsel, the court must determine their
relative order in the evidence and argument ;
6. The court may then charge the jury.
Order of proof, discretion of court, as to—generally, sec. 2042; 37
Cal.438; 51 Cal.468: party, control of, over, 8 Cal. 50; 15Cal.S34; 44Cal.
200; relevancy of evidence, sees. 1868-1870.
Subdivision 1. Plaintiff's evidence—proof required, see sees.
1867, 1869.
Subdivision 2. Defendant's evidence—see note to subd. 1.
§ 608
division 3. Rebutting evidence—Surdenof proof, generally,
1869r
: 2050;
assec.test2053;
right
rebut,
see 19 Cnl.
199; 48
614. Credit/,as
, sec.to,
42ofCal.
40Cal.578.
298.to Re-opening
Discretion
of
case—Where
court,
as Cal.
to recalltngwltamendment
omplaint, 33 Cal. 608: where cross-complaint, 49 Cal. 233: recalling
ess. sec. 2050; 45 Cal. 80: supplementary proof, 6 Cal. 170; 26 Cal.
; 38 Cal. 697; 42 Cal. 439 ; 47 Cal. 194, 590 ; 48 Cal. 614.
Subdivision 4. Arguments—plaintifff opening and closing, 2 Cal.
i reading law, 44 Cal. 65.
Subdivision 5. Several defendants—separate trials, 40 Cal. 299.
Subdivision 6. Charging the jury—sees. 608, 609.
CONDUCT OF TRIAL.
Actions—consolidating, sec. 1048: register of, sec. 1052. Amend
ments—sec. 473 and notes. Appeals—sec. 936 et seq. Argumentssec. 607, subd. 4. Case, calling up—sec. 594. Chambers—powers at,
sees. 165, 166, and notes. Charge to jury—sees. 608, 609, and notes.
Compromise—offer of, sec. 997; contempts, sees. 1209-1222. Continu
ance—sec. 595n, 595. Costs—sec. 1021 et seq. Court—trial by, sees. 631636. Damages—sec. 657, subd. 5n; deliberation of jury, sees. 613, 614.
Dismissal—sec. 585; andseeWANT of Prosecution. Divorce—see
sec. 76, subd. 4 note, sec. 125. Errors—of law, sec. 657, subd. 7, note : dis
regarded, sec. 475. Evidence—sees. 1823, 2104. Exceptions—sees. 646€53 and notes. Extensions of time—sec. 1054. Facts, jury deter
mines—sec. 608 and note, sec. 2101. Findings—sec. 633 and note. In
structions to jury—generally, sec. 608m : special, sec. 609n. Judges
—disqualifications of, sees, 170-172: sec. 397, subd. 4. Judgment—gener
ally, 577-582, 664n: giving and entering, sees, 664-675; kinds of, sec. 577n:
on pleadings, sec. 585n, Jury trial—sees. 600-628. Justices' court—trials
in, sees. 871-887. Language of proceedings—sec. 185. Law, judge
determines—sees. 608, 2102. Motions—sec. 1003 et seq. New trials—
6ecs.656-663: nonsuit, sec. 581. Notices—sec. 1010 et seq. Follingjury
—sec. 618. Order of proof—607n, supra. Orders—1003-1009. Paperslost or defectively entitled, sees. 1045, 1046: filing and service of, sees.
1010-1017. Place oftrial—see Venue. Pleadings—generally, sees. 420476: rules as to, sees. 452-465: under Code, sec. 421n: judgment on, sec.
585n. Postponements—see Continuance. Private trial—sec. 125.
Reference—sees. 638-645. Relief—sec. 580 and notes. Separation—of
jury, admonition on, sec. 611. Special proceedings—sees. 1063-1822.
Summary proceedings—sees. 1132-1179. Stipulations—sec. 283, subd.
In. Testimony, taking down—clerk, sec. 1051 : short-hand reporters,
sees. 268-274. Three-fourths—of jury, agreement of, sec. 618n. Trial
—generally,
sees.
Variance—sees.
469-471.
392«w: 610.
change
of, sec.688-663.
397jury
et seq.
624-628.Venue—sees.
View—by
jury,
sec.
Waiver-of
trial,Verdict—sees.
sec. 631. Witnesses—see
Evidence.
Writings—see Evidence: inspection of, see. 1000. Want of prosecu
tion—dismissal for, sec. 594n.
§ 608. In charging the jury, the court may state to
them all matters of law which it thinks necessary for
their information in giving their verdict; and if it state
the testimony of the case, it must inform the jury that
they are the exclusive judges of all questions of fact.
The court must furnish to either party, at the time, upon
request, a statement, in writing, of the points of law con
tained in the charge, or sign at the time a statement of
such points prepared and submitted by the counsel of
either party.
Matters of law—court stating in charge, Const. Cal. art. 6, sec. 19;
sec. 2102, also sec. 2061, and see under Charge to Jurt, infra.
Stating testimony—20 Cal. 432 ; 48 Cal. 85: constitutional provision,
see last note.
Judges'
art. 6. sec.
If);Questions
sec. 2101, of
alsofact—Jury
sec. 2061;exclusive
17 Cal. 166,
and of,
seeConst.
underCal.
Charge
to
Jury, infra. Law also, for jury, in libel, see Const. Cal. art. 1, see. 9.
Charge to jury—Scope of, see Instructions, generally, infra, and
Special instructions, sec. 609b. Construction of, 1 Cal. 476; 22 Cal. 43;
Cal. 85;
on, on
seequestions
note, supra,
andnote,
7 Cal.
424;
4148 Cal.
123 ;4949Cal.
Cal.560.
56 ; 52Law
Cal.matters,
315. Fact,
of, see
supra,
and 22 Cal. 492; 23 Cal. 193; 24 Cal. 502 ; 51 Cal. 603; People v. Wong Ah
Ngow, Feb. 10th, 1880, 4 Pac. C. L. J. 552; McFadden u. Mitchell, April
22nd, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 334 : point treated as proven, 13 Cal. 427 ; 18
Cal. 376; 20 Cal. 66: 33 Cal. 299; 34 Cal. 663 ; 41 Cal. 123; 51 Cal. 603; 52
Cal. 315; 53 Cal. 625, and see Assuming Fact, under Instructions
generally, infra.
INSTRUCTIONS GENERALLY:
Asking—see special instructions, sec. 609s. Assuming fact—23 Cal.
193; 24 Cal. 502; 25 Cal. 197: 30 Cal. 539; 33 Cal. 299 ; 50 Cal. 236; 53 Cal.
612, 720. Charge in—see Charge to Jury, note supra. Conflict
ing—see Contradictory. Contradictory—or inconsistent, 30 Cal.
312; 39 Cal. 573; 43 Cal. 552; 44 Cal. 65, 246 ; 52 Cal. 465 ; 53 Cal. 56, 708.
Correct—see Proper. Equity—special issues, 7 Cal. 424. Erroneous-l Cal. 353; 6 Cal. 433 ; 8 Cal. 341; 9Cal.565; 19 Cal. 143; 24 Cal. 839:
39
Cal. 25,March
123; 52 6th,
Cal.1880,
246, 5315;
354,92;360,McFadden
604, 612, 720;
Black t).
Sprague,
Pac.53 C.Cal.L.J.
v. Mitchell,
April
22nd,
1880,
5
Pac.
C.
L.
J.
334;
Sargent
v.
Linden
G.
M.
Co.
25th, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 404; People o. Miles, May 26th, 18S0, 5 Pac.Mav
0.
L.
J. 420; and
see Requisites
op;seealsoErrors
SpecialopInstructions,
Refusal
op, sec.
609n. Effect of,
Law, sec. 657;
subd. 7 and notes. Extent of—23 Cal. 331 ; 38 Cal. 362. Fact, on ques
tions of—see note, supra: fraud, 6 Cal. 119; 8 Cal. 87, 207; 19 Cal. 143:
McFadden v. Mitchell, April 22nd, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 334 ; Parks v. Bar
ney, June 11th, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 499. General, too—1 Cal. 366.
Granting—see under Special Instructions, sec. Q09n. Inconsis
tent—see Contradictory. Irreconcilable—see Contradictory.
Law, on matters of—see note, supra. Libel—Const. Cal. art. 1, sec. 9;
46 Cal. 124. Malicious prosecution—29 Cal. 644; 52 Cal. 246; 53 Cal. 189.
Objections to—see Exceptions, under Special Instructions, sec.
609». Oral—53 Cal. 574. Passing on—see under Special Instructions,
sec. 609n. Pertinency of evidence—submitting, 49 Cal. 56. Pointtreated as proven in, see Assuming Fact, and Charge, note, supra.
Presumed—correct,
Cal.53420:Cal.proper,
17 Cal. 123:
20 Cal. 56;
31 Cal.
115; 38 Cal. 362; 49 Cal.53 560;
491; Williams
». Hartford
F. Ins.
Co.
March 29th, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 227. Refusal of—see under Special
Instructions, sec. 609». Relevant—2 Cal. 39, 217 ; 9 Cal. 353; 24 Cal.
17: 28Requisites
Cal. 380; 36of—see
Cal. 404;Assuming
39 Cal. 123,691;
45 Cal.
496; 47 Cal. 93; 50Gen
Cal.
4j9.
Fact,
Contradictory,
eral, Relevant, Vague. Special—sec. 609n. Supplementary—43
Cal. 274. Testimony on—where uncontradicted, 45 Cal. 5*4: stating.
see note, supra. Useless—53 Cal. 420. Usual—sec. 2061 ; see also, sec.
2102. Vague—39 Cal. 690; and see Too General.
§ 609. Where either party asks special instructions to
be given to the jury, the court must either give such
instruction, as requested, or refuse to do so, or give the
instruction with a modification, in such manner that it
may distinctly appear what instructions were given in
whole or in part.
Instructions, disposition of—asking, granting, refusing, modifying,
manner of passing on, see those heads under Special Instructions,
infra.
SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS.
Addingto—47 Cal. 93. Asking—0 Cal. 197; 16 Cal. 78; 48 Cal. 237,277;
53 Cal. 613; Williams v. Hartford Fire Ins. Co. March 29th, 1880, 5 Pac.
C. L. J. 227. Disregarding—6 Cal. 197. Exceptions to—sec. 646 and
notes. Granting—8 Cal. 390; 13 Cal. 172; 17 Cal. 143; 41 Cal. 66. Mod
ifying—see Adding to, Granting, Passing on, Offering; see
Asking. Passing on—manner of, 2 Cal. 173; 5 Cal. 490; 19 Cal. 476.
683 ; 25 Cal. 460; 32 Cal. 280; 34 Cal. 101; 37 Cal. 154; 40 Cal. 543; 49 Cal.
166; see also Adding to, Granting, modifying, Refusal. Pre
senting—see Asking. Proposed—6 Cal. 197 ; 29 Cal. 556. Readingtime of, 29 Cal. 556. Refusal of—proper, 5 Cal. 478; 6 Cal. 197; 8 Cal.
275, 590; 9 Cal. 353; 13 Cal. 599; 29 Cal. 556; 32 Cal. 231: 36 Cal. 404; 45
Cal. 496 ; 47 Cal. 93; 49 Cal. 166; 53 Cal. 354, 630; People v. Smallmans,
May 15th, 1880: improper, 2 Cal. 385; 52 Cal. 611: reasons for, 8 Cal. 390:
curing,
8 Cal.
87; C.30 L.Cal.J. 631;
Cal. 469;
PeopleMarch
v. Ah24th,
Chung,
22nd7l880,
5 Pac.
218; 50Siemers
v. Eisen.
1880,March
5 Pac.
C. L. J. 248. Time, presenting in—where many, 6 Cal. 197.
§ 610. When, in the opinion of the court, it is proper
for the jury to have a view of the property which is the
subject of litigation, or of the place in which any material
fact occurred, it may order them to be conducted, in a
body, under the charge of an officer, to the place, which
shall be shown to them by some person appointed by the
court for that purpose. While the jury are thus absent,
no person, other than the person so appointed, shall speak
to them on any subject connected with the trial.
View of premises—19 Cal. 427 ; 49 Cal. 607 ; 50 Cal. 556; 53 Cal. 60.
§ 611. If the jury are permitted to separate, either
during the trial or after the case is submitted to them,
they shall be admonished by the court that it is their duty
not to converse with or suffer themselves to be addressed
by any other person on any subject of the trial, and that
it is their duty not to form or express an opinion thereon
until the case is finally submitted to them.
Temporary recess—question as to application, 23 Cal. 631.
§ 612. Upon retiring for deliberation, the jurymaytake
with them all papers which have been received as eviCode Civ. Proc—19.
denoe in the cause, except depositions or copies of such
papers as ought not, in the opinion of the court, to be
taken from the person having them in possession; and
they may also take with them notes of the testimony or
other proceedings on the trial, taken by themselves, or
any of them, but none taken by any other person.
Inspection of documents—by, 36 CaL 168.
§ 613. When the case is finally submitted to the jury,
they taay decide in court or retire for deliberation ; if they
retire, they must be kept together, in some convenient
place, under charge of an officer, until at least threetourths of them agree upon a verdict or are discharged
by the court. Unless by order of the court, the officer
having them under his charge must not suffer any com
munication to be made to them, or make any himself, ex
cept to ask them if they or three-fourths of them are
agreed upon a verdict; and he must not, before their ver
dict is rendered, communicate to any person the state of
their deliberations, or the verdict agreed upon. [In effect
March 10th, 1880.1
Retiring for deliberation—Temporary separation, 5 Cal. 275; 19 Cal.
427 ; 20 Cal. 433; 21 Cal. 337; 22Cal.348. Influence ofjudge, 29 Cal. 258.
Three-fourths—agreement of,amdt. 1880; see Const. Cal. art. l,sec.7.
§ 614. After the jury have retired for deliberation, if
there be a disagreement between them as to any part of
the testimony, or if they desire to be informed, of any
point of law arising in the cause, they may require the
officer to conduct them into court, upon their being
brought into court, the information required must be
given in the presence of, or after notice to, the parties or
counsel.
Information given—extent of, 45 Cal. 338 : on non-judicial days, sec.
134,subd. 1.
Absence of attorneys—criminal cases, 5 Cal. 148; 37 Cal. 274.
§ 615. If, after the impanneling of the jury, and before
verdict, a juror become sick, so as to be unable to per
form his duty, the court may order him to be discharged.
In that case the trial may proceed with the other jurors,
or another juror may be sworn and the trial begin anew;
or the jury may be discharged and a new jury then or
afterward impanneled.
§ 616. In all cases where the jury are discharged, or
prevented from giving a verdict, by reason of accident or
other cause, during the progress of the trial, or after the
cause is submitted to them, the action may be again tried
immediately, or at a future time, as the court may direct.
Jury discharged—formalities, 48 Cal. 324: on non-judicial days, 49
Cal. 226.
§ 617. While the jury are absent the court may adjourn
from time to time, in respect to other business ; but it is
nevertheless open for every purpose connected with the
cause submitted to the jury until a verdict is rendered or
the jury discharged. The court may direct the jury to
bring in a sealed verdict, at the opening of the court, in
case of an agreement during a recess or adjournment for
the
Adjournment
Sealed
day.verdict—bringing
[In for
effect
term—effect
March
in, 12 10th,
Cal.
of, before
483.1880.]amdt. 1880, 48 Cal. 324; SO
Cal. 648: abolition of terms, by Const. 1879, see sec. 73n.
§ 618. When the jury, or three-fourths of them, have
agreed upon a verdict, they must be conducted into court,
their names called by the clerk, and the verdict rendered
by their foreman; the verdict must be in writing, signed
by the foreman, and must be read by the clerk to the
jury, and the inquiry made whether it is their verdict.
Either party may require the jury to be polled, which is
done by the court or clerk asking each juror if it is his
verdict ; if upon such inquiry or polling, more than onefourth of the jurors disagree thereto, the jury must be
sent out again, but if no such disagreement be expressed,
the verdict is complete and the jury discharged from the
case.
Three-fourths—agreement
Verdict
Polling[In
received—on
jury—20
effectCal.
March
69.non-judicial
10th,
of, see1880.]
sec.
day,613n.
sec. 134.
Dissenting—more than one-fourth, amdt. 1880; grounds for, 48 Cal.
688.
§ 619. When the verdict is announced, if it is informal
or insufficient in not covering the issue submitted, it may
be corrected by the jury under the advice of the court, or
the jury may be again sent out.
Corrected by jury—2 Cal. 183, 269.
Court, power of—2 Cal. 183; 3 Cal. 137; 34 Cal. 663.
Waiver—4 Cal. 260.
ARTICLE m.
THE VEBDICT.
Generala general
and special
verdicts
defined.
When
or special
verdict
may be rendered.
Verdict in actions for recovery of money or on establishing
counterclaim.
Verdict in actions for the recovery of specific personal prop
Entryerty.
of verdict.

§ 624. The verdict of a jury is either general or special.
A general verdict is that by which they pronounce gener
ally upon all or any of the issues, either in favor of the
plaintifff or defendant; a special verdict is that by which
the jury rind the facts only, leaving the judgment to the
court. The special verdict must present the conclusions
of fact as established by the evidence, and not the evi
dence to prove them : and those conclusions of fact must
be so presented, as that nothing shall remain to the court
but to draw from them conclusions of law.
Verdict, scope of—confined by pleadings and Issues, 
as to amending,
seegenerally,
sec. 473; 3Intendments,
Cal. 137: ejectment
741 :
Intendments
as to, see
sec. in,53ra:sees,
new740,trials
for misconduct affecting, sec. 657. subd. 2 and note : joint defendants,
against, 6 Cal. 197 ; 15 Cal. 27 ; 25 Cal. 123 : waiver of Informality in, 38
Cal. 507 ; 40 Cal. 408.
General verdict—14 Cal. 168; 15 Cal. 162; 25 Cal. 479; and see SCOPB
OP VERDICT, supra.
Special verdict—sec. 625».
§ 62S. In an action for the recovery of money only, or
specific real property, the jury, in their discretion, may
render a general or special verdict. In all other cases
the court may direct the jury to And a special verdict
in writing, upon all, or any of the issues, and in all
cases may instruct them, if they render a general ver
dict, to find upon particular questions of fact, to be stated
in writing, and may direct a written finding thereon.
The special verdict or finding must be filed with the clerk
and entered upon the minutes. Where a special finding
of facts is inconsistent with the general verdict, the
former controls the latter, and the court must give judg
ment accordingly.
General verdict—sec. 624n.
•
Special verdict—Character of, 16 Cal. 113; 17 Cal. 299,510; 19 Cal. 101;
31 Cal.
by SCO.
court,Change
3 Cal. of
3%.verdict,
Special
issues,
4 Cal.to 6;general,
8 Cal.
501
: 23 98.
Cal. Directed
482; 27 Cal.
from
special
25 Cal. 539; 48 Cal. 588. Specialfinding, effect on general verdict, 20 Cal.
389; 23 Cal. 489; 31 Cal. 115: and as to equity, see 49 Cal. 126; 52 Cal. 430:
insufficient, when, 50 Cal. 61.
§ 626. When a verdict is found for the plaintifff, in an
action for the recovery of money, or for the defendant
when a counterclaim for the recovery of money is estab
lished, exceeding the amount of the plaintifff's claim as
established, the jury must also find the amount of the
recovery.
Amount of recovery—Watson c. Damon, March 5th, 1880, 5 Pac. C.
L. J. 97.
§ 627. In an action for the recovery of specific per
sonal property, if the property has not been delivered to
the -plaintifff, or the defendant, by his answer, claim a re
turn thereof, the jury, if their verdict be in favor of the
plaintifff, or, if being in favor of the defendant, they also
find that he is entitled to a return thereof, must find the
value of the property, and, if so instructed, the value of
specific portions thereof, and may, at the same time, assess
the damages, if any are claimed in the complaint or an
swer, which the prevailing party has sustained by reason
of the taking or detention of such property. [In effect
July 1st, 1874.]
Verdict in replevin—7 Cal. 668 ; 8 Cal. 446; 21 Cal. 274 ; 24 Cal. 147.
§ 628. Upon receiving a verdict, an entry must be made
by the clerk in the minutes of the court, specifying the
time of trial, the names of the jurors and witnesses, and '
setting out the verdict at length, and where a special ver
dict is found, either the judgment rendered thereon, or if
the case be reserved for argument or further considera
tion, the order thus reserving it.
§ 631. Trial by jury may be waived by the several
parties to an issue of fact in actions arising on contract,
or for the recovery of specific real or personal property,
with or without damages, and with the assent of the court
in other actions, in manner following :
1. By failing to appear at the trial;
2. By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed
with the clerk;
3. By oral consent, in open court, entered in the min
utes. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Waiver of jury trial—see Const. Cal. art. 1, sec. 7; 5 Cal. 112; 27CaL
249; Sherman v. McCarthy, March 3rd, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 58: refer
ence as, 2 Cal. 92, 245. 261 i 19 Cal. 140: equity cases, 5 Cal. 192, 294: 16
Cal. 249 ; 30 Cal. 512 : court disregarding, sees. 309, 592 ; 27 Cal. 249.
Subdivision 1. Failure to appear at trial—4 Cal. 112; 10 CaL 178;
15 Cal. 23 ; 16 Cal. 432 ; 18 Cal. 409.
Subdivisions 2, 3. Consent—see Reference bt Consent, sec.
638n, and Waiver of Jury Trial, reference as, supra.
§ 632. Upon the trial of a question of fact by the court,
its decision must be given in writing and filed with the
clerk within thirty days after the cause is submitted for
decision. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Trial by court—equivalent of charge, 20 Cal. 151 : case submitted,
argument after, 45 Cal. 178.
Written decision filed—mandatory, 2 Cal. 305 : but not as to time of
filing, 4 Cal. 214; 44 Cal. 228: equity, in, 18 Cal. 447: effect of, 31 Cal. 95;
49 Cal. 623: waiver, 45 Cal. 178. Thirty days, directory merely, 44 Cal.
228; 49 Cal. 157.
§ 633. In giving the decision, the facts found and the
conclusions ot law must be separately stated. Judgment
upon the decision must be entered accordingly.
Section generally—mandatory, 2 Cal. 305; 3 Cal. Ill; and see Writ
ten Decision, filed, sec. 632n: facts found, 2 Cal. 305: separately
the Bench, May 17th, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 559; see Deficient, TrrsvTficikmt.
Supporting—judgment,
Judgment.
Test—of41suffi
ciency, special
verdict as, l!t Cal. 101.seeUltimate
facts—stating,
§ 634. Findings of fact may be waived by the several
parties to an issue of fact :
1. By failing to appear at the trial ;
2. By consent in writing, filed with the clerk;
3. By oral consent in open court, entered in the minutes.
Finding waived—non-waiver must appear, 51 Cal. 262, 626; 53 Cal. 34;
Carr v. Cronan, etc. April 7th, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 2«4 : waiver, when in
judicious, 39 Cal. 381.
§ 635. Repealed. [In effect April 3rd, 1876.]
§ 636. On a judgment for the plaintifff upon an issue
of law, he may proceed in the manner prescribed by the
first two subdivisions of section five hundred and eightyfive, upon the failure of the defendant to answer. If
judgment be for the defendant upon an issue of law, and
the taking of an account or the proof of any fact be nec
essary to enable the court to complete the judgment, a
reference may be ordered as in that section provided.
Issue of law—sec. 589:judgment on, demurrer overruled orsustained,
28 Cal. 106; 44 Cal. 620; 49 Cal. 346; and see sees. 472, 585: when a bar, 47
Cal. 32: and see sec. 1908: generally, sec. 577» etseg. ; sec.664n.
Reference—sec. 638 et sea.
§ 638. A reference may be ordered upon the agree
ment of the parties filed with the clerk or entered in the
minutes :
1. To try any or all of the issues in an action or proceed
ing, whether of fact or of law, and to report a finding and
judgment
2. To ascertain
thereon a; fact necessary to enable the court to
determine an action or proceeding.
Reference in general—court commissioners, before, sec. 259, subd.2 :
fees for, sec. 1028: private trial, sec. 125: compulsory, see next section:
special,
subd.of2,jurytrial,sec.
infra: general,
subd. 1, infra: constitutional
ity, as tosee
waiver
Kiln.seeReferees—number,
etc. sec. 640:
objections to, sees. 641, 642: trial by, sec. 638n: report of, sees. 643-45.
Consent, reference by—consent essential, 2 Cal. 92, 261; 24 Cal. 424
35 Cal. 549: improper, 1 Cal. 336: constitutionality, sec. 631n: 2 Cal. 92
discontinuance, 1 Cal. 45; 4 Cal. 1 : order for,2 Cal. 355j 4 Cal. 1 ; 9 Cal. 353.
Subdivision 1. To report a judgment, etc.—9 Cal. 213; 20 Cal. 92.
Trial by referee—sec. 1053 ; 2 Cal. 195; 3 Cal. 406; 5 Cal. 430; 7 CaL 50;
10 Cal. 545; 20 Cal. 92; and see Conduct of Tkial, sec. 607n.
Findings—sec. 633n.
Judgment—generally, sees. 577n, 664n.
213;Subdivision
41 Cal. m. 2. To take testimony, etc—see'sec. 259, subd.2; 9 CaL
Report—sec. 643n.
§ 639. When the parties do not consent, the court may,
upon the application of either, or of its own motion, di
rect a reference in the following cases :
1. When the trial of an issue of fact requires the exam
ination of a long account on either side, in which case the
referees may be directed to hear and decide the whole
issue, or report upon any specific question of fact involved
therein;
2. When the taking of an account is necessary for the
information of the court before judgment, or for carrying
a judgment or order into effect ;
3. When a question of fact, other than upon the plead
ings, arises upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of the
action ;
4. When it is necessary for the information of the court
in a special proceeding.
Reference generally—sec. 638n.
Compulsory reference—unauthorized, 1 Cal.336: orderfor, 2 Cal. 245;
9 Cal. 353 : and as to power to make, under Constitution, see sec. 631n.
Subdivisions 1 and 2. Account—19 Cal. 140; 28 Cal.302 ; 32 Cal. 397;
38 Subdivision
Cal. 385: whole3.Issue,
Collateral
24 Cal. question—see
424.
41 Cal. 394.
Subdivision 4. Special proceeding, for—generally, see sees. 1063,
1822.
§ 640. A reference may be ordered to any person or
persons, not exceeding three, agreed upon by the parties.
If the parties do not agree, the court or judge must ap
point one or more referees, not exceeding three, who re
side in the county in which the action or proceeding is
triable, and against whom there is no legal objection, or
the reference may be made to a court commissioner of the
county
Three
Reference
Court referees—two
commissioner—sec.
where
ordered—see
the cause
maysees.
act,
is 638,
259,
sec.
pending.
subd.
639,
1053.2.and notes.
§ 641. Either party may object to the appointment of
any person as referee, on one or more of the following
grounds :
1. A want of any of the qualifications prescribed by
statute to render a person competent as a juror;
2. Consanguinity or affinity, within the third degree, to
either party;
3. Standing in the relation of guardian and ward, mas
ter and servant, employer and clerk, or principal and
agent to either party ; or being a member of the family
of either party ; or a partner in business with either
party ; or being security on any bond or obligation for
either party ;
4. Having served as a juror or been a witness on any
trial between the same parties, for the same cause of ac
tion;
5. Interest on the part of such person in the event of the
action, or in the main question involved in the action;
6. Having formed or expressed an unqualified opinion
or belief as to the merits of the action;
7. The existence of a state of mind in such person
evincing enmity against or bias to either party.
Objections to referee—compare sec. 602.
§ 642. The objections taken to the appointment of any
person as referee must be heard and disposed of by the
court. Affidavits may be read and witnesses examined
as to such objections.
Objections—see sec. 641 and note.
§ 643. The referees or commissioner must report their
findings in writing to the court, within twenty days after
the testimony is closed, and the facts found and conclu
sions of law must be separately stated therein.
Referees—see sees. 640-642. Reference—sees. 638, 639. Commis
sioner—sec. 269, subd. 2. Report—1 Cal. 45, 362; 2 Cal. 322; 3 Cal. 406,
408,431; 5 Cal. 228 ; 9Cal. 213; 23 Cal. 451: 30 Cal. 280: account, as to, 32
Cal. 397 ; 47 Cal. 378. Findings—sec. 633n. Twenty days—merely di
rectory, 22 Cal. 471, and compard sec. Win.
§ 644. The finding of the referee or commissioner upon
the whole issue must stand as the finding of the court; and
upon filing of the finding with the clerk of the court, judg
ment may be entered thereon in the same manner as if
the action had been tried by the court.
Finding of referee—effect of, see Report, sec. 643n; whole issue
upon, 24 Cal. 424. Judgment entered thereon—3 Cal. 406; 31 Cal. 333.
§ 645. The finding of the referee or commissioner may
he excepted to and reviewed in like manner as if made by
the court. When the reference is to report the facts, the
finding reported has the effect of a special verdict.
Referee's findings excepted to and reviewed—2 Cal. 72, 122; 4 Cal.
122;
5 Cal.
90,430,453 ;generally,
7 Cal. 50; sees.
9 Cal.646
213,et353;
Cal. 471;
47 Cal.
Cal. 293
: exceptions
seq.22: new
trials,
sec.378656; 49et
seq. : court commissioner's report, time and mode of excepting to, sec.
259, subd. 2; 41 Cal. 393. Reporting tne facts—see Report, sec. 643n.
§ 646. An exception is an objection upon a matter of
law to a decision made, either before or after judgment,
by a court, tribunal, judge, or other judicial officer, in an
action or proceeding. The exception must be taken at
the time the decision is made, except as provided in sec.
647.
Immediate
[Approved
taking—of
Aprilexception,
3rd, 1876—in
see Time
effect
of June
Decision,
1st, 1876.]
under
Exceptions, infra. Matters deemed excepted to—sec. 647.
EXCEPTIONS.
Absence of party—as affecting, sec. 647 and note. Amending—sec.
650. Appellate court—first raising objections in, 5 Cal. 409, 478; 6 Cal.
Cal. 98, 162, 167. Bill of exceptions—sees. 650-653. Certifying—sec.
650. Charge to—essential, 49 Cal. 340; specific, see that head. Con
tinuance, refusal of—reviewing, 47 Cal. 98, 162 : deemed excepted to,
sec. 647. Decision—to, see Taken, to what. Deemed made, whensec. 647. Default, order opening—Review of, 47 Cal. 167. Definition of',
sec. 646, supra; 32 Cal. 304 ; 34 Cal. 682 ; 38 Cal. 141. Drafting—sec. 650.
Evidence, objection to—admitted, subject to exception, 7 Cal. 38. In
competent,
Weight o/, 23 Cat. 259. Filing—see Settlement of. Findings, to—
see sec. 633n. Immediate taking of—see Time op Decision. Imma
terial evidence to—see Evidence. Incompetent evidence, to—see
Evidence. Irrelevant evidence, to—see Evidence. Manner of
taking—see Taken, how. Preparing—see Settlement of. Pre
senting—see Settlement of. Reason—of immediate taking, see
Time op Decision. Record, appearance in—sees. 649, 650 ; 5 CaL 258,
430; 6 Cal. 202; 11 Cal. 142; 48 Cal. 537, 646. Rejection of evidence, to—
see Evidence. Repeating—39 Cal. 614. Requisites—of bill of exceptions.sec. 650n. Reviewing—see Appellate Court. Settlement of
—sees. 649-353. Signing—see Settlement of. Specific, must be—
admission or rejection of evidence, to, 
v. Edgar,
Mil, 48
1380, 4 Pac.
C. L. J. 545: charge, to, 25 Cal. 123; 44 Cal. 246, 414: 47 Cal. 343; 48 Cal.
410; 50 Cal. 129: verdict, to, sec. 648. Stating-see Taken, how. Strik
ing out evidence—motion for, see Evidence. Taken—to what, 23

Cal. 176; 51 CaL 447: also see Appellate Court, and Time of De
cision. Weight of evidence, to—see Evidence.
,
§ 647. The verdict of the jury, the final decision in an
action or proceeding, an interlocutory order or decision,
finally determining the rights of the parties, or some of
them; an order or decision from which an appeal may be
taken; an order sustaining or overruling a demurrer, al
lowing or refusing to allow an amendment to a pleading,
striking out a pleading or a portion thereof, refusing a
continuance; an order made upon ea; parte, application,
and an order or decision made in the absence of a party,
are deemed to have been excepted to. [Approved April
3rd—in effect June 1st, 1876.]
Construction of section—47 Cal. 167. Decisions deemed excepted
to—Absence of party, in, Amdt. 1876; formerly otherwise, 35 Cal. 398.
Amendment to pleading, ruling on, see sec. 47371. Appealable order, sec.
939, subd.3,
and note.
Continuance,
refusing:
granting,
also, before
Amdt.
1876: review
of, see
Exceptions,
sec. 646>i.
Demurrer,
ruling
on,
sec. 636,
and note.
Ex parte
order,
166, 259,see
subd.
1. Final
decision,
defined,
1 Cal. 134;
sec. 648n;
andsees.
generally,
Judgment,
sec. 577sec.
and939,note,
: exceptionorder
presumed,
34 Cal.defined,
682 : appeal
from,
and sec.
note.664nInterlocutory
or decision,
1 Cal.
24:
order,
sec.
1003:
decision,
sec.
648n:
review
of,
on
appeal,
sec.notes.
939m,
and
subd.
3n;
sec.
956n.
Striking
out
pleading,
sec.
453
and
Verdict, sees. 624-628.
§ 648.
No particular
of exception
is required,
■when
the exception
is toform
the verdict
or decision,
upon but
the
Code Civ. Proc—»0.
ground of the insufficiency of the evidence to justify it,
the objection must specify the particulars in Which such
evidence is alleged to be insufficient. The objection must
be stated with so much of the evidence or other matter as
is necessary to explain it, and no more. Only the sub
stance of the reporter's notes of the evidence shall be
stated. Documents on file in the action or proceeding
may be copied, or the substance thereof stated, or a refer
ence thereto, sufficient to identify them, may be made.
[Approved April 3rd; 1876—in effect June 1st, 1876.
Verdict or decision—on insufficient evidence. Decision, meaning
of, 49 Cal. 42, 552; 51 Cal. 110. Insufficiency of evidence, see Evidekce,
under Exceptions, sec. 646n. Specifying particulars, seeinfra. Speci
fying particulars—of insufficiency of evidence, see Specific, under
Exceptions, sec.646n; 49 Cal. 552 ; 50 Cal. 129,508,523; 51 Cal. 180; Eider
d. Edgar, Feb. 6th, 1880, 4 Pac. C. L. J. 545; Douglas r. Fulda, No. 6115,
Feb. 9th, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 18; same as to statement, sec. 659.
§ 649. A bill containing the exception to any decision
may be presented to the court or judge for settlement, at
the time the decision is made, and after having been
settled, shall be signed by the judge and filed with the
clerk. When the decision excepted to is made by a trib
unal other than a court, or by a judicial officer, the bill of
exceptions shall be presented to, and settled and signed
by such tribunal or officer. [Approved April 3rd, 1876—
in effect June 1st, 1876.1
Settlement of bill of exceptions—sec. 650m.
Filed with clerk—when, 49 Cal. 585.
At time of decision—47 Cal. 640; see also, 5 Cal. 149.
§ 650. When a party desires to have exceptions taken
at a trial settled in a bill of exceptions, he may, within
ten days after the entry of judgment, if the action were
tried with a jury, or after receiving notice of the entry of
judgment, if the action were tried without a jury, or
such further time as the court in which the action is pend
ing, or a judge thereof, may allow, prepare the draft of a
bill,
serveSuch
the draft
same, must
or a copy
thereof,
upon the ad
verseand
party.
contain
all ,theyexceptions
taken upon which the party relies. Within ten days after
such service the adverse party may propose amendments
thereto, and serve the same, or a copy thereof, upon the
other party. The proposed bill and amendments must,
within ten days thereafter, be presented by the party
seeking the settlement of the bill, to the judge who tried
or heard the case, upon five days' notice to the adverse
party, or be delivered to the clerk of the court for the
judge. When received by the clerk he must immediately
§ 651
deliver them to the judge; if he be in the county; if he
he absent from the county, and either party desire the
papers to be forwarded to the judge, the clerk must, upon
notice in writing of such party, immediately forward
them by mail, or other safe channel; if not thus for
warded, the clerk must deliver them to the judge imme
diately after his return to the county. When received
from the clerk, the judge must designate the time at
which he will settle the bill, and the clerk must imme
diately notify the parties of such designation. At the
time designated, the judge must settle the bill. If the
action was tried before a referee, the proposed bill, with
the amendments, if any, must be presented to such ref
eree for settlement within ten days after service of the
amendments, upon notice of five days to the adverse
party, and thereupon the referee shall settle the bill. If
no amendments are served, or if served are allowed, the
proposed bill may be presented, with the amendments, if
any,- to the judge or referee, for settlement, without
notice to the adverse party. It is the duty of the judge
or referee, in settling the bill, to strike out of it all redun
dant and useless matter, so that the exceptions may be
presented as briefly as possible. When settled, the bill
must be signed by the judge or referee, with his certificate
to the effect that the same is allowed, and shall then be
filed with the clerk. [In effect J uly 1st, 1874.]
Further time—sec. 1054 ; 50 Cal. 444.
Presentment—24 Cal. 228, and see next note.
Time for settlement—47 Cal. 640,643; 50 Cal.444: in criminal case,
47 Cal. 631.
Signed when—see Then be Filed, infra.
Certificate of judge—5 Cal. 148. Revoking, 9 CaL 172; 47 Cal.-526: but
as to abolition of terms, see sec. 73n.
Then be filed—49 Cal. 585.
New trial—bill of exceptions for, sec. 659, subd. 2.
Requisites—of bill of exceptions, sec. 648; 1 Cal. 108; 3 Cal. 426; 5 Cal.
149; 36 Cal. 559; 38 Cal. 141; 45 Cal. 25; 46 Cal. 545 ; 43 Cal. 210, 581; 50 Cal.
444; 53 Cal. 302: for new trial, sec. 259, subd. 2 : and as to statement, see
see. 259, subd. 3, and sec. 661n.
§ 651. Exceptions to any decision made after judg
ment may be presented to the judge at the time of such
decision, and be settled or noted, as provided in sec. 649,
and a bill thereof may be presented and settled after
ward, as provided in sec. 650, and within like periods
after entry of the order, upon appeal from which such
decision is reviewable. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Decision after judgment—compare sections named.
§ 652. If the judge in any case refuse to allow an ex
ception in accordance with the facts, the party desiring
the bill settled may apply by petition to the Supreme
Court to prove the same ; the application may be made in
the mode and manner, and under such regulations as that
court may prescribe: and the bill, when proven, must be
certified by the chief justice as correct, and filed with the
clerk of the court in which the action was tried, and when
so filed it has the same force and effect as if settled by the
judge who tried the cause.
Rcfuse-49 Cal. 510.
Petition-35 Cal. 227 ; 49 Cal. 263.
Regulation—see Supreme Ct. Rule 29.
§ 653. When the decision excepted to was made by
any judicial officer other than a judge, the bill of excep
tions shall be presented to such judicial officer and be
settled and signed by him, in the same manner as it is re
quired to be presented to, settled, and signed by a court
or judge. A judge or judicial officer may settle and sign a
bill of exceptions after as well as before he ceases to be
such judge or judicial officer. If such judge or judicial
officer, before the bill of exceptions is settled, dies, is re
moved from office, becomes disqualified, is absent from
tlie State, or refuses to settle the bill of exceptions, or if
no mode is provided by law for the settlement of the
same, it shall be settled and certified in such manner as
the Supreme Court may by its order or rules direct.
Judges, judicial officers, and the Supreme Court shall
respectively possess the same power, in settling and cer
tifying statements, as is by this section conferred upon
them in settling and certifying bills of exceptions. [Ap
proved April 3rd—in effect June 1st, 187G.]
Order or rules—see Settlement, under. Supreme Court Roles,
sec. 128n.
§ 656. A new trial is a re-examination of an issue of
fact in the same court after a trial and decision by a jury
orNew
court,
trial—see
or by note
referees.
to next section.
§ 657. The former verdict or other decision may be
vacated and a new trial granted, ou the application of the
party aggrieved, for any of the following causes, mate
rially affecting the substantial rights of such party:
1. Irregularity iu the proceedings of the court, jury, or
adverse party, or any order of the court, or abuse of dis
cretion, by which either party was prevented from hav
ing a fair trial;
i
!i. Misconduct of the jury; and whenever any one or
more of the jurors have been induced to assent to any
general or special verdict, or to a iinding on any question
submitted to them by the court, by a resort tothe deter
mination of chance, such misconduct may be proved by
the affidavit of any one of the jurors;
3. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could
not have guarded against ;
4. Newly -discovered evidence, material for the party
making the application, which he could not, with reason
able diligence, have discovered and produced at the trial.
5. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given
under the influence ot passion or prejudice;
G. Insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or
other decision, or that it is against law;
7. Error in law, occurring at the trial and excepted to by
the party making the application.
NEW TRIAL.
Admissions preventing—see Estoppel. Affidavits—on motion
for, sec. 659, subd. 1 and note; also see Grounds, infra, subd. 2, 4.
Appeal—as affecting, sec. 53n. Application for—mode of, sees. 658,
659; and see Motion for. Argument for—see under Motion for.
Chance, resort to—sec. 657, subd. 2, and note under Grounds, infra.
Conflict of evidence—effect of, see Groundshnote, infra, subd. 6.
Damages, excessive— sec. 657, subd. 5, and note under Grounds,
infra. Defined—sec. 656. Diligence—proof ' of, see Grounds note,
infra,
subd.of4 :alone
in prosecution,
sec. 600 and
note.
Discretion—exten
sive, abuso
causes Interference,
2 Cal.
177. 353;
Kern Valley Bank *>. Chester, June 3rd, 1880; also see subrt. 1 of thin
section, and under Grounds infra. note to same, and tosubd. 3,4, and
6: in other matters, 15 Cal. 23; 19 Cal. 605; 22 Cal. 43; Parrot t>. Floyd,
April 17th, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 333. Equity, in—extent of interference.
sec.473n; 5 Cal. 400, 448 ; 7 Cal. 50; 29 Cal. 444; 33 Cal. 31; 41Cal. 247,318;
45 Cal. 234: practice, 7 Cal. 50; 14Cal.2i3; 18 Cal. 42; 4.1 Cal. 126; 50 Cal.
105. Errors in law—sec. 657, subd. 7, andnota under Grounds, infra.
Estoppel—by admissions on record, 40 Cal. 92. Exceptions—sec. 646n :
oubill of, sec. 653, subd. 2. Granting—see Order for. Grounds of—
see note, infra. Insufficiency of evidence for—sec. 657, subd. 6, and
note under Grounds, infra. Intendments—favoring proceedings be
§ 658. When the application is made for a cause men
tioned in the first, second, third, and fourth subdivisions
of the last section, it must be made upon affidavits; for
any other cause it may bo made, at the option of the mov
ing party, either upon the minutes of the court, or a bill
of exceptions, or a statement of the case, prepared as
hereinafter provided. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Effect of Code on section—47 Cal. 58.
Mode of application—affidavits, on, sec. 659, subd. 1 : minutes of
court, on, sec. 65!), subd. 4: bill of exceptions on, sec. 659, subd. 2: state
ment of case, on, sec. 659, subd. 3.
§ 659. The party intending to move for a new trial
must, within ten days after the verdict of the -jury, if the
action were tried by a jury, or after notice of the decision
§ 659
of the court or referee, if the action were tried without a
jury, file with the clerk and serve upon the adverse party
a notice of his intention, designating the grounds upon
which the motion will be made, and whether the same
will be made upon affidavits or the minutes of the court,
or a bill of exceptions, or a statement of the case :
1. If the motion is to be made upon affidavits, the mov
ing party must, within ten days after serving the notice,
or such further time as the court in which the action is
pending, or a judge thereof, may allow, file such affidavits
with the clerk, and serve a copy upon the adverse party,
who shall have ten days to file counter affidavits, a copy
of which must be served upon the moving party.
2. If the motion is to be made upon a bill of exceptions,
and no bill has already been settled as hereinbefore pro
vided, the moving party shall have the same time after
service of the notice to prepare and obtain a settlement of
a bill of exceptions as is provided after the entry of judg
ment, or after receiving notice of such entry by sec. 650,
and the bill shall be prepared and settled in a similar
manner. If a bill of exceptions has been already settled
and filed, when the notice of motion is given, such bill
shall be used on the motion.
3. If the motion is to be made upon a statement of the
case, the moving party must, within ten days after service
of the notice, or such further time as the court in which
the action is pending, or the judge thereof, may allow,
prepare a draft of the statement, and serve the same, or
a copy thereof, upon the adverse party. If such pro
posed statement be not agreed to by the adverse party, he
must, within ten days thereafter, prepare amendments
thereto, and serve the same, or a copy thereof, upon the
moving party. If the amendments be adopted, the state
ment shall be amended accordingly, and then presented
to the judge who tried. or heard the cause, for settlement,
or be delivered to the clerk of the court for the judge. If
not adopted, the proposed statement and amendments
shall, within ten days thereafter, be presented by the
moving party to the judge, upon live days' notice to the
adverse party, or delivered to the clerk of the court for
the judge; and thereupon the same proceedings for the
settlement of the statement shall be taken by the parties,
and clerk, and judge, as are required for the settlement of
bills of exception by sec. 050. If the action was heard by
a referee, the same proceedings shall be had for the settle
ment of the statement by him as are required by that
section for the settlement of bills of exception by a ref
eree. If no amendments are served within the time des
§ 659
ignated, or, if served, are allowed, the proposed statement
and amendments, If any, may be presented to the judge
or referee, for settlement, without notice to the adverse
party. When the notice of the motion designates, as the
ground of the motion, the insufficiency of the evidence to
justify the verdict or other decision, the statement shall
specify the particulars in which such evidence is alleged
to be insufficient. When the notice designates, as the
ground of the motion, errors in law occurring at the trial,
and excepted to by the moving party, the statement shal 1
specify the particular errors upon which the party will
rely. If no such specifications be made, the statement
shall be disregarded on the hearing of the motion. It is
the duty of the judge or referee, in settling the statement,
to strike out of it all redundant and useless matter, and
to make the statement truly represent the case, notwith
standing the assent of the parties to such redundant or
useless matter, or to any inaccurate statement. When
settled, the statement shall be signed by the judge or ref
eree, with his certificate to the effect that the same is
allowed, and shall then be filed with the clerk.
4. When the motion is to be made upon the minutes of
the court, and the ground of the motion is the insuffi
ciency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other de
cision, the notice of motion must specify the particulars
in which the evidence is alleged to be insufficient; and, if
the ground of the motion be errors in law occurring at the
trial, and excepted to by the moving party, the notice
must specify the particular errors upon which the party
will rely. If the notice do not contain the specifications
here indicated, when the motion is made on the minutes
of the court, the motion must be denied. [In effect July
1st, 1874.]
Within ten days—see Notice of Motion, infra.
Verdict of jury—sees. 624-628.
Notice of decision—30 Cal. 123; 33 Cal. 208; 43 Cal. 320; 50Cal. 375:
meaning of "decision," see 40 Cal. 665.
Notice of motion for new trial— Written, must be, 24 Cal. 354,364.
Abandonment,
Cal. Filing
602. Waiver,
9 Cal.ofpapers,
76; 28 Cal.generally,
151; 4l-Cal.
Cal. 485; 52 Cal.V664.
and serving
sec.619;
1010 43H
sea.: Initiates proceedings, 47 Cal. 68. Time for, mandatory, 9 Cal.67;
15 Cal.
Cal. 354
; 46 Cal. 654
4') Cal.commissioner's
105.652 ; 50 Cal.report,
370: extension
of
time,313;sec.241054;
excepting
to ;court
sec. 259,
sulul. 2. Designating grounds, see SPECIFYING PARTICULARS, note,
infra.
43 Cal.4.320.Minutes of court—motion on, sec. 660: specifying
particulars, see note, supra.
§ 660. The application for a new trial shall he heard at
the earliest practicable period after notice of the motion,
if the motion is to be heard upon the minutes of the court,
and in other cases, after the affidavits, bill of exceptions,
or statement, as the case may be, are filed, and may be
brought to a hearing upon motion of either party. On
such hearing reference may be had in all cases to the
pleadings and orders of the court on file, and when the
motion is made on the minutes, reference may also he had
to any depositions, documentary evidence, and phono
graphic report of the testimony on file. [In effect July
1st, 1874.]
Earliest practicable period—diligence required, 27 Cal. 4131; 32 CaL
655;
45 Cal.
669: 645.
discretion of court, 37 Cal. 236; 39 Cal. 434; 44 Cal. 389:
Waiver,
47 Cal.
Brought to a hearing—see Waiver, under preceding note. '
Hearing—Arguments on, 28 Cal. 99; 47 Cal. 163; 49 Cal. 46. Premature
order on, 41 Cal. 331 ; 42 Cal. 218, 362. Dismissal on motion, 48 Cal. 646.
§ 661. The judgment roll and the affidavits, or bill of
exceptions, or statement, as the case may be, used on the
hearing, with a copy of the order made, shall constitute
the record to he used on appeal from the order granting
or refusing a new trial, unless the motion be made on the
minutes of the court, and in that case the judgment roll
and a statement to be subsequently prepared, with a oopy
of the order, shall constitute the record on appeal. Such
subsequent statement shall be proposed by the party ap
pealing, or intending to appeal, within ten days after the
entry of the order, or such further time as the court in
which the action is pending, or a judge thereof, may
allow, and the same or a copy thereof be served upon the
adverse party, who shall have ten days thereafter to pre
pare amendments thereto, and serve the same, or a copy
thereof, upon the party appealing, or intending to appeal ;
and thereafter proceedings shall be had, and within like
periods, for the settlement of the statement as provided
by sec. 659, but the statement shall only contain the
grounds argued before the court for a. new trial, and so
much of the evidence or other matter as may be necessary
to explain them; and it shall be the duty of the judge to
exclude all other evidence or matter from the statement.
[In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Judgment roll—sec. 670 ; Thomas v. Anderson, May 26th, 1880, 5 Fac.
C. L. J. 415.
and
Affidavits,
notes. bill of exceptions, statement—sec. 659, subds. 1, 2, 3,
Minutes of court—sec. 680.
Statement on appeal— Contents required, 8 Cal. 618; 10 Cal. 300; 11
and
see
Proceedings,
Limited
TIME ron. sec. 659n. Judge's certificate, 47 Cal. 526. Specifying par
ticulars, sec. (vtfn. Appeal from order as to new trial, sec. 936, sub. 1. 3,
and notes. Record on appeal, 49 Cal. 146.
§ 662. The verdict of a jury may also be vacated, and
a new trial granted by the court in which the action is
pending, on its own motion, without the application of
either of the parties, when there has been such a plain
disregard by the jury of the instructions of the court, or the
evidence in the case, as to satisfy the court that the verdict
was rendered under a misapprehension of such instruc
tions, or under the influence of passion or prejudice. The
order of the court may be reviewed on appeal in the same
manner as orders made on motions for a new trial, and a
statement to be used on such appeal may be prepared in
the same manner as statements after a motion is heard
upon the minutes of the court, as provided in sec. 661.
[In effect July 1st, 1874.]
§ 663. Repealed. [In effect April 15th, 1880.]
§ 664. When trial by jury has been had, judgment
must be entered by the clerk, in conformity to the verdict,
within twenty-four hours after the rendition of the ver
dict, unless the court order the case to be reserved for
argument or further consideration, or grant a stay of pro
ceedings.
Entering judgment—13 Cal. 50; 28 Cal. 335; 44 Cal. 132.
Reserving—for aigument or further consideration, sec. 665.
Stay of proceedings—by appeal, sec. 949 and note.
JUDGMENT GENERALLY.
Abatement of—when made, 36 Cal. 132. Abbreviations—etc., see.
186. Affirmative relief—where sought, see Defendant, for. Af
firming—sec. 53n. Amendment—sec. 473». Appeal from—'sec. 939,
subds. 1 and 2, notes. Appellate supervision over—sec. 53, and notes.
Assignment of—12 Cal. 257; 22 Cal. 430; 23 Cal. 255, 596; 25 Cal. 189, 538.
Attack on—direct and collateral, sec. 412rc; sec. 1908b. Authentica
tion—47 Cal. 21. Compromise—after offer of, sec. 997. Confession,
by—sec. 1132. Counter-claim, where—see Defendant, for. Cur
rency, in—sec. 667. Default, by—sec. 585 and note. Defendant, for—
for excess of counterclaim, or affirmative relief, sec. 666. Defined—
sec. 577. Demurrer, on—sec. 636. Dismissal, of—sec. 581. Enforcing—
sec. 684; and see sec. 957. Entry of—see Entering Judgment, note,
supra: on demurrer. 49 Cal. 346. Estoppel on—sec. 1908. Excess, remit
ting—seeREDucTiON, enforcing. Final—sec. 939n; 1 Cal. 24, 134,5 Cal.
428;
14 Cal.
248 ; 15 Cal.
145. 162 ; 16 Cal.
381 ; and March
as to contempt,
Form,
question
as to-Preston
v. Hearst,
16th, 1880,see5sec.
Pac.1222.
MENT8, sec. 53a. Interest—28 Cal. 288: 30 CaL 91; 32 Cal. 82. Inter
locutory—sec. 647n. Intervention, alter—see Intervention, gen
erally, sec. 387 and note. Kinds of—sec. 577n. Language of—sec. IBSMistakes in—see amendments, and 45 Cal. 653. Modifying—sec.
53n; sec. 957; 53 Cal. 653. Money—in specified kind of, sec. 667 and
note; of account. Political Code, 3272-3274. New Trial—vacating by.
sec. 657; 28 Cal. 534. Non obstante veredicto—18 Cal. 669. Nonsuit, of—
sec. 581. Obedience to—enforcing, see Contempts, sec. 1209. subds.
5,Form.
12, and Parties
notes: sec.
1210; and
generally,
1209-1222.
Order
to—sees.
385,478,
679,669;sees.
15 Cal.
41; 37 Cal.
346;for—see
39 CaL
412,688; 40 Cal. 639. Pendency of action—sec. 1049. Pleading, sec. 458.
Pleadings on—sec. 585n. Recitals in—50 Cal. 454: effect of recitals
generally, sec. 1962, subd. 2 and note. Reduction, enforcing—12 CaL
479; 14 Cal. 419. Relief by—sec. 580n. Remittitur—sec. 958. Reserv
ing—sec. 655. Restitution—on reversal or modification of, sec. 957.
Reversing—sec. 63n, sec. 957. Review of—on new trial, sec. 656 et seq. :
on appeal, sec. 53»; 
Chalfant,
March 15th, 1880,
Pac. C. L.supra,
J. 134.andUncertain—
when, 53p. Cal.
13. Vacating—see
New5 Trial,
Opening.
Default—sec. 473n; also Amendment, supra. Validating—60 Cal. 389.
JUDGMENT TN PARTICULAR OASES.
Administration —against, sec. 1504. Arrest of debtor — directing,
see sec. 684. Attached property—satisfying from, sec. 550; 9 CaL 538.
Award on—sec. 1286. Oontempt, in—sec. 1222. Deed, setting aside—
fenerally, 21 Cal. 629; 41 Cal. 85: of decedent, sec. 1589; 39 CaL 688.
Ijectment, in—9 Cal. 213; 14 Cal. 465; 18 Cal. 108,217; 22 CaL 513, 645;
26 Cal. 272; 32 Cal. 176; 35 Cal. 316; 36 Cal. 625; 40 Cal. 294, 299; 41 Cal. 41 f
44 Cal. 177; 49 Cal. 137,202; 50 Cal. 314. Executor, against—see Admin
istrator. Fiduciary funds—as to, sec. 667n. Foreclosure—sec. 726.
Infant, against—31 Cal. 273. Joint debtors, against—sec. 989. Mar
ried woman—as to, see under Parties, sees. 370, 371. Mechanics'
liens—sees. 1193, 2194. Partition—sec. 766. Partnership—winding up,
33 Cal. 641. Receiver—executing or securing, sec. 564, subds. 3, 4, and
notes. Reference, on—sec. 644. Replevin, in—sec. 667, and notes.
Sureties—on official bond, against, 25 Cal. 521; 29 Cal. 642: on appeal
bond, subrogation of, sec. 1059. Trespass, in—53 Cal. 653. Trust, es
tablishing—form of, 25 Cal. 317; 34 Cal. 514.
§ 665. When the case is reserved for argument or fur
ther consideration, as mentioned in the last section, it
may be brought by either party before the court for argu
ment.
Argument—see sec. 53n.
§ 666. If a counterclaim, established at the trial, ex
ceed the plaintifff's demand, judgment for the defendant
must be given for the excess ; or if it appear that the de
fendant is entitled to any other affirmative relief, judg
ment must be given accordingly.
Counter-claim—generally,
sees. 438,
439: dismissal
nonsuit,
none,
sec. 681, subd. 1. Exceeding
plaintifff's
demand,orsee
underwhere
Ver
dict, sec. 626. Affirmative relief—see sec. 442.
§ 667. In an action to recover the possession of per
sonal property, judgment for the plaintifff mny be for the
possession or the value thereof, in case a delivery cannot
he had, and damages for the detention. If the property
has been delivered to the plaintifff, and the defendant
claim a return thereof, judgment for the defendant may
be for a return of the property or the value thereof, in case
a return cannot be had, and damages fortaking and with
holding the same. In an action on a contract or obliga
tion in writing, for the direct payment of money, made
payable in a specified kind of money or currency, judg
ment for the plaintifff, whether it be by default or after
verdict, may follow the contract or obligation, and be
made payable in the kind of money or currency specified
therein ; (and in all actions for the recovery of money, if
the plaintifff allege in his complaint that the same was understood and agreed by the respective parties to be payafile in a specified kind of money or currency, and this
fact is admitted by the default of the defendant or estab
lished by evidence, the judgment for the plaintifff must be
made payable in the kind of money or currency so al
leged in the complaint; and in an action against any per
son for the recovery of money received by such person in
a fiduciary capacity, or to the use of another, judgment
for the plaintifff must be made payable in the kind of
money or currency so received by such person.
Replevin judgment—form of, .7 Cal. 568 ; 38 Cal. 608; 45 Cal. 76, 
445. Execution, sec. 682, subd. 4.
Trust funis—Fiduciary capacity, sec. 1407: 26 Cal. 421 ; 33 Cal. 557,
686. Use of another, 28 Cal. 288; 33 Cal. 399, 650.
§ 668. The clerk must keep, with the records of the
court, a book to be called the "judgment book," in which
judgments must be entered.
Register of actions—sec. 1052.
§ 669. If a party die after a verdict or decision upon
any issue of fact, and before judgment, the court may
nevertheless render judgment thereon. Such judgment
is not a lien on the real property of the deceased party,
hut is payable in the course of administration on his
estate.
Death—suggestion and effect of, sec. 385 and notes.
Death after verdict—50 Cal. 40.
Payable in course of administration—sec 1506, and see sec. 1504.
Before judgment entered—60 Cal. 289.
§ 670. Immediately after entering the judgment the
clerk must attach together and file the following papers,
which constitute the judgment roll:
1. In case the complaint be not answered by any de
fendant, the summons, with the affidavit or proof of ser
vice, and the complaint, with a memorandum indorsed
thereon that the default of the defendant in not answer
ing was entered, and a copy of the judgment;
2. In all other cases, the pleadings, a copy of the ver
dict of the jury, or rinding of the court, or referee, all
bills of exceptions taken and filed, and a copy of any
order made on demurrer, or relating to a change of parties,
and a copy of the judgment. If there are two or more
defendants in the action, and any one of them has allowed
judgment to pass against him by default, the summons,
with proof of its service upon such defendant, must also
be added to the other papers mentioned in this subdivis
ion. [In effect March <)th, 1870.]
Clerk's powers and duties—county clerk, see Political Code,
sees. 4204, 4205: deputies, see Political Code, sets. 805, 4112-4114:
functions generally, see Ministerial officers, sec. 262n; also, sec.
.135, subds. 1 and 2, 593, 634, 638, 671-3, 1051, 1052, 2012.
Judgment roll—contents, etc. 18 Cal. 210; 27 Cal. 107 ; 28 Cal. 170, 295;

no answer—Summons,
contents
and proof
ofSitbdivision
service,
415,
notes:
complaint,
sec.
426 5and
Both
part ofsees.
judgment
roll.and
Mand
r. Wear,
May 17th,
1880,
Pac.notes.
C. L.
J. 426. Judgment, by default, sec. 585 and notes.
Subdivision
2.
Other
cases
—
Pleadings,
see
sees.
420-476.
dict, sees. 624-028. Findings, sec. 633». Report of referee, ThompsonVerv.
Patterson,
April
23rd,on 1880,
SPac. C. L.636J.and
388.note.
Exceptions,
sec. 648»;
sees.473
646-653.
Order
demurrei—see.
CUangeofparties,
sec.
and
note;
49
Cal.
306.
Copy
of
judgment,
Thomas
v.
Anderson,
May 26th, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. .7. 415. Judgment, generally, sec. 577n; sees.
577-582; sec.634n: review of, papers on, 53 Cal. 281, 393": by. default, see
subd. 1 and note.
§ 671. Immediately after filing the judgment roll, the
clerk must make the proper entries of the judgment,
under appropriate heads, in the docket kept by him; and
from the time the judgment is docketed it becomes a lien
upon all the real property of the judgment debtor not ex
empt from execution in the county, owned by him at the
time, or which he may afterward acquire, until the lieu
ceases. The lien continues for two years, unless the en
forcement of the judgment be stayed on appeal by the
execution of a sufficient undertaking, as provided in this
Code, in which case the lien of the judgment ceases. [In
effect July 1st, 1874.]
Docketing judgment—error in, 6 Caj. 277: time of, 39 Car. 137.
Judgment docket—sees. 672-574.
Judgment lien—To what attaches* 14 Cal. 428; 16 Cal. 181,213; 23 Cal.
277; 50Cal. 511. Effect on attachment Hen—37 Cal. 121. Two years' du
ration,suspends,
10 Cal. 71;
Cal.130;
471;2531Cal.
Cal.337.395;Extinguished,hoic,
46 Cal. 654. Apfieal
sec.16941Cal.et 403;
seq.: 176 Cal.
3 Cal. 79. Inforeclosure, 16 Cal. 404 ; 25 Cal. 337 ; 28 Cal. 520.
§ 672. The docket mentioned in the last section is a
book which the clerk keeps in his office, with each page
divided into eight columns, and headed as follows: judg
ment debtors; judgment creditors; judgment; time of
entry; where entered in judgment book; appeals, when
taken; judgment of appellate court; satisfaction of judg
ment, when entered. If judgment be for the recovery of
money or damages, the amount must be stated in the
docket under the head of judgment; if the judgment be
for any other relief, a memorandum of the general char
acter of the relief granted must be stated. The names of
the defendants must be entered in alphabetical order.
Docketing judgment—sec. 671 and note ; 31 Cal. 293.
Judgment docket—what constitutes, 38 Cal. 393 : sufficient entry, 50
Cal. 511.
§ 673. The docket kept by the clerk is open at all times,
during office hours, for the inspection of the public, with
out charge. The clerk must arrange the several dockets
kept by him in such a manner as to facilitate their in
spection.
Public writings—open to inspection, sees. 1892, 1893.
§ 674. A transcript of the original docket, certified by
the clerk, may be filed with the recorder of any other
county, and from the time of the filing the judgment be
comes a lien upon all the real property of the judgment
debtor, not exempt from execution, in such county, owned
by him at the time, or which he may afterward, and be
fore the lien expires, acquire. The lien continues for two
years, unless the judgment be previously satisfied.
Another county—filing transcript in, Civil Code, sec. 1159 : where
land situated, sec. 400, ante; but see sec. 78.
Recording generally—sees. 1165, 1169, 1170.
Continuance of lien—23 Cal. 40.
Justice's Court judgment—abstract creates lien- sec. 900: and see 31
Cal. 223.
§ 675. Satisfaction of a judgment may be entered in
the clerk's docket upon an execution returned satisfied,
or upon an acknowledgment of satisfaction filed with the
clerk, made in the manner of an acknowledgment of a
conveyance of real property, by the judgment creditor,
or by his indorsement on the face, or on the margin of the
record of the judgment, or by the attorney, unless a
revocation of his authority is filed. Whenever a judg
ment is satisfied in fact, otherwise than upon an execu
tion, the party or attorney must give such acknowledg
ment, or make such indorsement, and upon motion the
court may compel it, or may order the entry of satisfac
tion to be made without it. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Satisfaction of judgment— What constitutes, 8 Cal. 29; 14 Cal. 661; 22
342: acknowledgment, sec. 179, subrt. 2. Parties empowered to give, cred
itor, 
i
Within
what
time
may
Who may issue theexecution
execution,
itsissue.
form, to whom directed, and
what it shall require.
When made
returnable.
Money
Judgments,
and others, how enforced.
Execution
after
When executionfive
mayyears.
issue against the property of a party after
his death.how and to whom issued.
Execution,
What
till shall
a levybeisliable
made.to be seized in execution. Not to be affected
When
property
property
Is tried.
is claimed by a third party, how the right of
What exempt from execution.
Writ,
how
executed.
Notice
of
sale
under execution,
how given.
Selling
without
what
attached.
Sales,
sold.
and
deputy
now
the
Judgment
toofficer
conducted.
be notice,
a shall
purchaser.
debtor,
follow
Neither
ifpenalty
his
present,
Real
the
directions.
and
officer
may
personal
conducting
directproperty,
orderitofnorsale,
how
his

§ 695.
purchaser
refuses
purchase-money,
proceedings.
696. If
Court
purchaser
of justice
refusing
maytoproceed
topaypay.
inOfficer
a summary
may what
refuse
manner
such
against
pura


These
amount.
two sections not to make officer liable beyond a certain
Personal property not capable of manual delivery, how deliv
ered toproperty
purchaser.
Personal
not capable of manual delivery, how sold and
delivered.
Real property, when absolute sale or not. In the latter case,
what
the certificate
must
contain.
Real
property
so sold, by
whom
it may be redeemed.
When it may be redeemed, and redemption money.
When
Judgment
debtor
or
other
redeem.
In cases of redemption, to whom redemptioner
the judgmentsmay
are to
be made.
What
a
redemptioner
must
do
in
order
to
redeem.
Until the expiration of redemption time court may restrain
waste on the property. What considered waste.
Rents
and profits.
If purchaser
of real property be evicted for irregularities in
sales, what he may recover and from whom. When judg
ment to be revived. Petition for the purpose, how and by
whom
% 709. Party
whomade.
pays more than his share may compel contribution.
§ 681. The party in whose favor judgment is given,
may, at anytime within five years after the entry thereof
have a writ of execution issued for its enforcement.
§ 682
Entry of judgment—Time for execution begins to run from, 28 Cal.
418; 30 Cal. 621; 34 Cal. 611: generally, sec. 664, and note.
Within five years—22 Cal. 647: when extended, sec. 685: changes in
statute, 37 Cal. 11.
Stay of execution—When proper, 31 Cal. 170: when improper, Livermore v. Hodgklns, April 26th, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 348: by appeal, sees.
942k,
942-945
period
29 68Cal.
227:seeper40
petual,
when: no
notextension
granted, 41ofCal.
253 : for
newissuance
trial as, 28by,CaL
; and
Cal. 278.
§ 682. The writ of execution must be issued in the
name of the people, sealed with the seal of the court, and
subscribed by the clerk, and be directed to the sheriff, and
it must intelligibly refer to the judgment, stating the
court, the county where the judgment roll is filed, and if
it be for money, the amount thereof, and the amount
actually due thereon, and if made payable in a specified
kind of money or currency, as provided in section six
hundred and sixty-seven, the execution must also state
the kind of money or currency in which the judgment is
payable, and must require the sheriff substantially as fol
lows:
1. If it be against the property of the judgment debtor,
it must require the sheriff to safisfy the judgment, with
interest, out of the personal property of such debtor, and
if sufficient personal property cannot be found, then out
of his real property; or if the judgment be a lien upon
real property, then out of the real property belonging to
him on the day when the judgment was docketed, or at
any time thereafter; or if the execution be issued to a
county other than the one in which the judgment was re
covered, on the day when the transcript of the docket
was filed in the office of the recorder of such county, stat
ing such day, or any time thereafter.
2. If it be against real or personal property in the hands
of the personal representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees,
tenants, or trustees, it must require the sheriff to satisfy
the judgment, with interest, out of such property.
3. If it be against the person of the judgment debtor, it
must require the sheriff to arrest such debtor and commit
him to the jail of the county until he pay the judgment,
with interest, or be discharged according to law.
4. If it be issued on a judgment made payable in a
specified kind of money or currency, as provided in sec
tion six hundred and sixty-seven, it must also require the
sheriff to satisfy the same in the kind of money or cur
rency in which the judgment is made payable, and the
sheriff must refuse payment in any other kind of money
or currency; and in case of levy and sale of the property
§ 683
of the judgment debtor, he must refuse payment from
any purchaser at such sale in any other kind of money or
currency than that specified in the execution. The sher
iff, collecting money or currency in the manner required
by this chapter, must pay to the plaintifff or party entitled
to recover the same, the same kind of money or currency
received by him, and in case of neglect or refusal so to
do, he shall be liable on his official bond to the judgment
creditor in three times the amount of the money so col
lected.
5. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or
personal property, it must require the sheriff to deliver
the possession of the same, describing it, to the party en
titled thereto, and may, at the same time, require the
sheriff to satisfy any costs, damages, rents, or profits, re
covered by the same judgment, out of the personal prop
erty of the person against whom it was rendered, and the
value of the property for which the judgment was ren
dered to be specified therein if a delivery thereof can
not be had; and if sufficient personal property cannot
be found, then out of the real property, as provided in the
first subdivision of this section.
Writ—generally, see sec. bin.
Style of process, title of court—compare sec. 407n.
Issuance-Improper, 14 Cal. 138: clerk refusing, 10 CaL 48»: without
docketing of judgment, proper, 39 Cal. 137.
Name of the people—50 Cal. 511.
Judgment—Following strictly, 10 Cal. 411.
Subdivision 1. Satisfy the judgment—see 44 Cal. 520. Personal
property insufficient—6 Cal. 47. Lien of docketed judgment—see set:.
571 ; effect of execution on, 37 Cal. 121. Transcript of the docket
filed—see sec. 674.
Subdivision 3. Execution against the person—see sec. 684n.
Subdivision 4. Money or currency specified—kind of, sec. 667n.
Subdivision 5. Personal property, delivery of possession of—
see Replevin, Judgment in, sec. 667n. Real property—writs of
possession, restitution, assistance, see sec. 684n.
§ 683. The execution may be made returnable, at any
time not less than ten nor more than sixty days after its
receipt by the sheriff, to the clerk with whom the judg
ment roll is filed. When the execution is returned, the
clerk must attach it to the judgment roll. If any real es
tate be levied upon, the clerk must record the execution
and the return thereto at large, and certify the same un
der his hand as true copies, in a book to be called the
" execution book," which book must be indexed with the
names of the plaintifffs and defendants in execution, alpha
§ 684
betically arranged, and kept open at all times during
DfiSce hours for the inspection of the public without
charge. It is evidence of the contents of the originals
whenever they or any part thereof may be destroyed or
mutilated.
Sheriff's return-5Cal.53,470; 6 Cal. 85, 277 ; 8 Cal. 165; 12 Cal. 128;
21 Cal. 220; 38 Cal. 428.
§ 684. When the judgment is for money or the posses
sion of real or personal property, the same may be en
forced by a writ of execution ; and if the judgment direct
that the defendant be arrested, the execution may issue
against the person of the judgment debtor, after the
return of an execution against his property unsatisfied in
whole or part. When the judgment requires the sale of
property, the same may be enforced by a writ reciting
such judgment or the material parts thereof, and directing
the proper officer to execute the judgment, by making the
sale and applying the proceeds in conformity therewith.
When the judgment requires the performance of any
other act than as above designated, a certified copy of the
judgment may be served upon the party against whom
the same is rendered, or upon the person or officer
required thereby or by law to obey the same, and obedi
ence thereto may be enforced by the court. [In effect
July 1st, 1874.]
Possession of real property— Writ of possession or restitution—sees.
Dispossessed—
Prisoner, sees. 1143-1154.
Sale of property—see sec. 694 et seq.
of any other act—Enforcing obedience, sec. 1209,
clPerformance
Icq.
EXECUTION.
Amending—38 CaL 372; 63 Cal. 557. Assistance, writ of—sec. 684n.
Attachment—where
property
under,
551, 686«. Bids—atsale,
sees. 695-697. Book—recorded
in,sec.
sec.sees.
683.550,
Certificate—of
sale,seized,
sees.
i'»-700,andnotes:
ofredemption,
703.
Claim—to
property
sec. 689, and notes. Contents of—see FoEM of. Contribution—sec.
109. County—towhich issued, sec. 687. Oosts,for—sees. 1032, 1034, 1720;
i.Cal. 212; 14 CaL
party, after,
directed—how,
sec.232.
682. Death—of
Dispossessed—who
maysec.
be, 686,
sec.and
684n.note,
Ef
fecting—sec. 691, and notes; also see Levt, Sale, etc. En masse—
§ 685
sate of realty, see Gross, tts. Enforcement ofjudgment by—sec. 684.
Enjoining—lt, Cal. 200; andsee Injunction, sees. 525-533. Evictionsec. 708. Exemptions—sec. 690, and notes. Foreclosure—sec. 726; 30
Cal. 621 j and see Assistance. Whit of. Form—sec. 682, and notes.
Gross, in—sale of realty, sec. 694n. Impeaching sale—sec. 694n. In
demnity—sec. 689, and note. Irregularity in sale—see Impeaching ;
also sec. 708, and note. Issuance—manner of, sees. 682, 687: after
death of party, sec. 686. Time for—see that head. Judgment—fol
lowing, sec. 682, and note; enforcing, sec. 684. Leasehold—absolute
sale of, sec. 700. Levy—sec. 688, and note, sec. 691n. Leviable inter
est—sec. 691n. Mandamus—in, sec. 1095. Manual delivery—property
capable of, sees. 694, 698; property not capable of, sec. 688. Mortgagesec. 701, subd, 2, note; and see Foreclosure. Noticeof sale—sees. 692,
693, and notes. Order for payment—of money by court, on, sec. 1007,
Person, against the—sec. 684n. Personal property—see Propebty.
Possession—obtaining, see under Property, Personal and Real:
writ of, sec. 684n. Property—liable to, sec. 688, and note. Exempt,
see Exemptions. Personal levy, see that head : sale of, sec. 694, and
see Things in Action : obtaining possession of, sec. 682, subd. 5, note:
purchase,
sees. possession,
698, 699. Real,
sale, sec. 694:
purchase,
sec.684«.
700: Pur
levy,
see
that head:
obtaining,
sec.
chaser—refusing'
to pay, sees.
69~i-697 : sec.
rights682,of,subd.
sees.5,iWx-708.
Quashing-30 Cal. 114; 31 Cal. 170; 47 Cal. 626; 49 Cal. 266. Real propertysee under Property. Recalling—31 Cal. 170. Receiver—in aid of.
sec. 564, subd. 4. Redemption—sees. 701-705: certificate of, see Cer
tificate:
703, 705:
for, sec.for,702»:
sees. 702, 704 method
: parties of,
whosees.
may702,effect,
sec. money
701n: papers
sec.also,
705,
and notes : time for, sec. 702n, sec. 703. Redemptioner—sec. 701, subd.
2. Rents and Profits—sec. 707, and note. Requirements in—sec. 682.
and notes. Restitution, writ of—sec. 684n. Return of—sec. 683, and
note. Reviving—sec. 685«. Sales—conducted how, sec. 694, and notes :
see,
Bids, Certificate,
Impeaching,
No
tice,also,
purchaser,
Bedemption,
Sheriff'sIrregularity,
Deed, etc. Satis
fied judgment on—25 Cal. 538; 49 Cal. 359; and see Quashing. Set
ting aside—8 Cal. 130. Setting off—42 Cal. 110. Sheriff's deed—sec.
703n. Sheriff's duties—as to, sec. 682, 691, and notes. Sheriff's jurysec. 689n. Stay of—sec. 68In. Subrogation—sec. 709n. Supplement
ary proceedings—sees. 714-721 : application for, sees. 714, 715: charac
ter of, sec.
714n:of,sec.717:
contempt, order
sec. 721:
nishee,
answer
for,examination,
sec. 714. 715: sees.
result717,
of, 718:
sees.gar
719,
720. Suspending—31 Cal. 170. Things in action—disposition of, sec.
69In. Time for—sees. 681, 685, and notes. Title acquired—by certifi
cate of sale, sec. 700n : by sheriff 's deed, sec. 703n. vacating—11 Cal. 1
626, and see Setting Aside. Venditioni exponas—writ of, 8 Cal.
165 : 48 Cal. 133. Vessels, against—see. 824. Void—and voidable, 38
Cal. 372. Waste—sec. 706, and note. Writ of—how carried into effect,
sec. 691 et seq. Writs—of assistance, restitution, etc., see those heads.
§ 685. In all cases other than for the recovery of
money, the judgment may be enforced or carried into ex
ecution after the lapse of five years from the date of its
entry, by leave of the court, upon motion, or by judgment
forReviving
that purpose,
execution—8
founded
Cal. 512;
upon37 supplemental
Cal. 11: formerlypleadings.
applicable.
herevw writ unsatisfied, 29 Cal. 227 : scire facias, former method, 21
il. 129; and see sec. 802.
On. motion—17 Cal. 270; 47 Cal. 626.
Supplemental pleadings—generally, sec 481 and notes.
g €86. Notwithstanding the death of a party after the'
ldgment, execution thereon may be issued, or it may be
trforced as follows :
1 . In case of the death of the judgment creditor, upon
lio
essor
application
in interest;
of his executor, or administrator, or suc2. In case of the death of the judgment debtor, if the
ldgment be for the recovery of real or personal property,
r tie enforcement of a lien thereon.
Death of party—effect on action, sec. 385 andnotes: judgment after,
ec. 669: execution after, sec. 1505; 50 Cal. 289.
Sttbdtvisioij 1. See note, supra.
StJBDivisIpH 2. Eeal or personal property, recovery of—see sec.
82, feubd. 5. Attachment cases—not Included, 50 Cal. 365.
§ 687. Where the execution is against the property of
he judgment debtor, it may be issued to the sheriff of
my county in the State. Where it requires the delivery
>f real or personal property, it must be issued to the
sheriff of the county where the property, or some part
liereof, is situated. Executions may be issued, at the
lame
Any time,
county—In
to different
the State, counties.
process extends to, sec. 78.
§ 688. All goods, chattels, monies, and other property,
both real and personal, or any interest therein of the
judgment debtor, not exempt by law, and all property
arid rights of property seized and held under attachment
in the action, are liable to execution. Shares and inter
ests in any corporation or company, and debts and credits,
and £11 other property, both real and personal, or any
nterest in either real or personal property, and all other
property not capable of manual delivery, may be attached
on execution, m like manner a3 upon writs of attach
ment. Gold dust must be returned by the officer as so
much money collected, at its current value, without ex
posing the same to sale. Until a levy, property is not
affected by the execution.
Property liable to execution—Chattels, portable property, custody
of,7CaI.549;
property,
550. 238;
Interest,
Cal. 326 :
partner's, etc.,attached
10 Cal. 378;
12 Cal. seesec.
191: 43 Cal.
52 Cal.trust,
617: 52pledgor's,
31 Cal. 601: Judgment debtor's. 1 Cal. 123; 3 Cal. 454; 12 Cal. 226; 19Cal.
109;
419: good will,
Civil15:Judgment,
Code, sees. 992,
993.187:Contracts,
gent 24andCaLcomplicated,
13 Cal.
7 CaL
franchise,contin
Civil
Code, sees. 388-393; but contra before Code, 5 Cal. 471 ; 7 Cal. 286; 24 Cal.
Code Civ. Pboc.—88.
474. Homestead, when, see Civil Code, sees. 1241-1261 ; 17 Cal. 403 ; 47 CaL
435: trader's,
separate property
of wife, not liable, 10 Cal. 9; 24 Cal. 98 : and as to
sole
see sees. 1811-1822.
Levy—lien of execution dates from.6 Cal. 195; 38 Cal. 649j 42 CaL 529;
and see 14 Cal. 47 : generally, see sec. 691n.
§ 689. If the property levied on be claimed by a third
person as his property, the sheriff may summon from his
county six persons qualified as jurors, between the par
ties, to try the validity of the claim. He must also give
notice of the claim and of the time of trial to the plaintifff,
who may appear and contest the claim before the jury!
The jury and the witnesses must be sworn by the sheriff,
and if their verdict be in favor of the claimant, the
sheriff may relinquish the levy, unless the judgment
creditor give him a sufficient indemnity for proceeding
thereon. The fees of the jury, the sheriff, and the wit
nesses must be paid by the claimant, if the verdict be
against him; otherwise, by the plaintifff. Each party
must deposit with the sheriff, before the trial, the amount
of his fees and the fees of the jury, and the sheriff must
pay the same to the prevailing party.
Claimed by third person—notice and demand, 1 Cal. 160; 6 CaL 43,
512; 10 Cal. 172: 12 Cal. 73; 23 Cal. 359; 26 Cal. 514; 30 Cal. 190; 38 Cal. 583;
41 Cal. 469.
Sheriff's jury—verdict no protection to officer, 10 Cal. 189; 28 Cal. 122.
Sufficient indemnity-8 Cal. 227; 15 Cal. 75; 18 Cal. 622; 32 CaL 23; 36
Cal. 455; where several executions, 8 Cal. 227; 13 Cal. 521; 34 Cal. 629:
summary remedy against sureties on bond, sec. 1055, ana notes.
§ 690. The following property is -exempt from execu
tion, except as herein otherwise specially provided :
1. Chairs, tables, desks, and books, to the value of two
hundred dollars, belonging to the judgment debtor;
2. Necessary household, table, and kitchen furniture
belonging to the judgment debtor, including one sewing
machine, stoves, stove pipes, and furniture, wearing ap
parel, beds, bedding, and bedsteads, hanging pictures, oil
paintings, and drawings drawn or painted by any mem
ber of the family, and family portraits and their neces
sary frames, provisions actually provided for individual
or family use sufficient for three months, and three cows
and their sucking calves, four hogs with their sucking
pigs, and food for such cows and hogs for one month ;
3. The farming utensils or implements of husbandry
of the judgment debtor; also, two oxen, or two horses, or
two mules and their harness, one cart or wagon, and food
for such oxen, horses, or mules for one month ; also, all
seed, grain or vegetables actually provided, reserved, or
§ 690
on hand for the purpose of planting or sowing at any time
.within the ensuing six months, not exceeding in value the
sum of two hundred dollars, and seventy-live bee-hives,
and one horse and vehicle belonging to any person who is
maimed or crippled, and the same is necessary in his bus
iness;
4. The tools or implements of a mechanic or artisan nec
essary to carry on his trade; the notarial seal, records,
and office furniture of a notary public; the instruments
and chest of a surgeon, physician, surveyor, or dentist,
necessary to the exercise of their profession, with their
professional libraries and necessary office furniture ; the
professional libraries of attorneys, judges, ministers of
the gospel, editors, school teachers, and music teachers,
and their necessary office furniture ; also, the musical in
struments of music teachers actually used by them in
giving instructions, and all the indexes, abstracts, books,
papers, maps, and office furniture of a searcher of records,
necessary to be used in his profession ;
5. The cabin or dwelling of a miner, not exceeding in
value the sum of live hundred dollars; also, his sluices,
pipes, hose, windlass, derrick, cars, pumps, tools, imple
ments, and appliances necessary for carrying on any
mining operations, not exceeding in value the aggregate
sum of five hundred dollars, and two horses, mules, or
oxen, with their harness, and food for such horses, mules,
or oxen for one month, when necessary to be used in any
whim, windlass, derrick, car, pump, or hoisting gear, and
also his mining claim actually worked by him, not exceed
ing in value the sum of one thousand dollars ;
0. Two horses, two oxen, or two mules, and their har
ness, and one cart or wagon, one dray or truck, one coupe,
one hack or carriage for one or two horses, by the use of
which a cartman, drayman, truckman, huckster, peddler,
hackman, teamster, or other laborer habitually earns his
living, and one horse with vehicle and harness, or other
equipments, used by a physician, surgeon, constable, or
minister of the gospel, in the legitimate practice of his
profession or business, with food for such oxen, horses,
or mules for one month;
7. Poultry not exceeding in value twenty-five dol
lars ;
8. The earnings of the judgment debtor for his personal
services rendered at any time within thirty days next
preceding the levy of execution or attachment, when it
appears by the debtor's affidavit, or otherwise, that such
earnings are necessary for the use of his family residing
in this State, supported in whole or in part by his labor;
§ 690
but where debts are incurred by any such person, or his
wife or family, for the common necessaries of life, the
one-half of such earnings above mentioned are, neverthe
less, Bubject to execution, garnishment, or attachment to
satisfy debts so incurred ;
9. The shares held by a member of a homestead asso
ciation duly incorporated, hot exceeding in value one
thousand dollars, if the person holding the shares is not
the owner of a homestead under the laws of this State.
All the nautical instruments and wearing apparel of any
master, officer, or seaman of any steamer or other ves
sel;
10. All monies, benefits, privileges, or immunities ac
cruing or in any manner growing out of any life insur
ance on the life of the debtor, if the annual premiums
paid do not exceed five hundred dollars ;
11. All fire engines, hooks and ladders, with the carts,
trucks, and carriages, hose, buckets, implements, and ap
paratus thereunto appertaining, and all furniture and
uniforms of any fire company or department organized
under any laws of this State;
12. All arms, uniforms, and accoutrements required by
law to be kept by any person, and also one gun to be se
lected by the debtor;
13. All court-houses, jails, public offices, and buildings,
lots, grounds, and personal property, the fixtures, furni
ture, books, papers, and appurtenances belonging and
pertaining to the jail and public offices belonging to any
county or to any city and county of this State, and all
cemeteries, public squares, parks, and places, public
buildings, town halls, markets, buildings for the use of
fire departments and military organizations, and the lots
and grounds thereto belonging and appertaining, owned
or held by any town or incorporated city, or dedicated by
such town or city to health, ornament, or public use, or
for the use of any fire or military company organized un
der the laws of this State.
No article, however, or species of property mentioned
in this section, is exempt from execution issued upon a
judgment recovered for its price, or upon a judgment of
foreclosure of a mortgage thereon. [Approved April 1st,
1878.]
Object of exemptions—38 Cal. 389.
Seizure of exempt property—liability for, 39 Cal. 700: county reve
nues, 8 Cal. 52; and see 10 Cal. 404.
Leviable property—sec. 688n: ferryboat, 23 Cal. 257 : mining claim, 9
Cal. 137; 12 Cal. 56; 22 Cal. 645.

EXEMPTIONS.
Subdivision I. Chairs, tables, etc.—38 Cal. 384.
Subdivision 2. Necessary furniture—15 Cal. 266; 38 Cal. 384.
Subdivision 3. Horses on farm—38 Cal. 383.
Subdivision 4. Tools of workman—38 Cat. 384.
Subdivision 5. Mining apparatus, 38 Cal. 384.
Cal.
Subdivision
82; 43 Cal. 238:6. two
Vehicle
mules,in10use,
Cal. etc
393: harness,
two horses,
43 Cal.
22 238:
Cal. wagon,
504 ; 23
5Cal.4l8;
43
Cal.
238:
teamster,
34
Cal.
302
:
other
laborer,
34
Cal.
302:
bitually earns his living, 34 Cal. 302; Forsyth t). Bower, 5 Pac. C. L.haJ.
137.
Subdivision 9. Homestead right—what, 37 Cal. 96.
Subdivision
10. Insurance policy—36 Cal. 542 (before Amdt. 1878) ;
• 41 Cal. 303.
§ 691. The sheriff must execute the writ against the
property of the judgment debtor, by levying on a suffi
cient amount of property, if there be sufficient, collecting
or selling the things in action, and selling the other prop
erty, and paying to the plaintifff or his attorney so much
of the proceeds as will satisfy the judgment. Any ex
cess in the proceeds over the judgment and accruing
costs must be returned to the judgment debtor, unless
otherwise directed by the judgment or order of the court.
When there is more property of the judgment debtor
than is sufficient to satisfy the judgment and accruing
costs within the view of the sheriff, he must levy only on
such part of the property as the judgment debtor may
indicate, if the property indicated be amply sufficient to
satisfy the judgment and costs. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Sheriff must execute writ—Political Code, sec. 4180; 1 Cal. 104; 49
Cal. 661. Oder (o proceed, 29 Cal. 664; 4$ Cal. 351: 50 Cal.476. Apparent
possession as guide, 6 Cal. 43 ; 12 Cal. 73, 226. Writfully executed, 1 Cal. 25.
Levy—Lien of execution dates from, see sec. 688w. As satisfaction, 6
Cal. 195: 32 Cal. 131. Mode of, 7 Cal. 549; 12 Cal. 469 ; 25 Cal. 555 ; 49 Cal.
658; and compare 14 Cal. 47; sec. 542, and notes. Attaches to what, see
PropERty Liable to Execution, sec. 688n. On lands, 37 Cal. 122;
38 Cal. 649.
Leviable interest—sec. 688n; 41 Cal. 325; 42 Cal. 646.
Things in action—see Interest, Contracts, under Property Liable
to Execution, sec. 688n: 18 Cal. 436; 34 Cal. 81: collecting, sees. 544,
716* 1 Cal. 104: partner's interest, Jones v. Thompson, 12 Cal. 191; 52
Cal. 617; and generally, see 13 Cal. 626; 43 Cal. 119.
Selling property—sec. 694 et seq.
Paying over proceeds—Political Code, sec. 4181; 6 Cal. 195; 10 Cal.
486; 21 Cal. 170: surplus, 40 Cal. 408: labor claims, sec. 1206.
Judgment debtor—indicating property to be levied on, 6 Cal. 47.
§ 692. Before the sale of property on execution, notice
thereof must be given, as follows :
1. In case of perishable property: by posting written
notice of the time and place of sale in three public places
of the township or city where the sale is to take place,
for such time as may be reasonable, considering the char
acter and condition of the property;
2. In case of other personal property: by posting a
similar notice in three public places in the township or
city where the sale is to take place, for not less than five
nor more than ten days ;
3. In case of real property : by posting a similar notice,
particularly describing the property, for twenty days, in
three public places of the township or city where the
property
situated,
alsothereof
where
the
isfortothe
be •
same
sold,
if there
and
period,
beispublishing
one;
in someand
newspaper
a copy
published
onceproperty
ainweek
the county,
i. When the judgment under which the property is to
be sold is made payable in a specified kind of money or
currency, the several notices required by this section
must state the kind of money or currency in which bids
may be made at such sale, which must be the same as
that specified in the judgment. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Sale of vessels, notice of—sees. 824, 827.
Sale
Subdivision
without notice—see
1. Perishable
sec. property—sale
693.
under attachment, sec
547.
Subdivision 4. Specified kind of money—see sec. 682; subd. 4,
and notes.
§ 693. An officer selling without the notice prescribed
by the last section forfeits five hundred dollars to the ag
grieved party, in addition to his actual damages; and a
person willfully taking down or defacing the notice posted,
if done before the sale or the satisfaction of the judgment
(if the judgment be satisfied before sale), forfeits five
hundred dollars.
Want of notice—remedy for, 6 Cal. 47 ; 17 Cal. 626 : aggrieved party,
22Cal. 263.
§ 694. All sales of property under execution must be
made at auction to the highest bidder, between the hours
of nine in the morning and five in the afternoon. After
sufficient property has been sold to satisfy the execution,
no more can be sold. Neither the officer holding the exe
cution nor his deputy can become a purchaser or be inter
ested in any purchase at such sale. When the sale is of
personal property, capable of manual delivery, it must
be within view of those who attend the sale, and be sold
in such parcels as are likely to bring the highest price;
and when the sale is of real property, consisting of sev
eral known lots or parcels, they must be sold separately;
or, when a portion of such real property is claimed by a
third person, and he requires it to be sold separately, such
portion must be thus sold. The judgment debtor, if pres
ent at the sale, may also direct the order in which prop
erty, real or personal , shall be sold, when such property
consists of several known lots or parcels, or of articles
which can be sold to advantage separately, and the sheriff
must follow such directions.
Statute, directory—38 Cal. G54.
Publicity of sale—12 Cal. 192.
Auctioneer—sheriff as, Political Code, sec. 3291.
Sheriff de facto—sale by, 17 Cal. 626.
Purchaser—for others, 30 Cal, 586 : judgment creditor as, 34 Cal. 293 :
pledgee as, 36 Cal. 414: part owner may be,7 Cal. 688; 19 Cal. 120; 43
Cal. 1 in : of Judgment, 18 Cal. 436 : lien of, 9 Cal. 117 : rights of, 1 Cal. 24;
9 Cal. 366 : bona flde, 38 Cal. 372.
Real property—Sale in gross, 6 Cal. 47; 11 Cal. 14; 21 Cal. -56; 51 Cal.
553 ; Vigourex v. Murphy, March 19thr 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 176.
Impeaching sale—irregularity, for, 7 Cal. 160; 18Cal.436; 23 Cal. 226.
Vigourex v. Murphy, cited supra: void judgment, under, 8 Cal. 562; 38
Cat. 428: sheriff's return, not basis for, 5 Cal. 53; 6 Cal. 277; 38 Cal. 649:
for fraud, 23 Cal. 359.
§ 695. If a purchaser refuse to pay the amount bid by
him for property struck off to him at a sale under execu
tion, the officer may again sell the property at any time to
the highest bidder, and if any loss be occasioned thereby,
the officer may recover the amount of such loss, with
costs, from the bidder so refusing, in any court of compe
tent jurisdiction. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Purchase money not paid—where balance, 5 Cal. 66: refusal, 6 Cal.
91 ; 8 Cal. 21 : failure prevents recovery against sheriff, 22 Cal. 263.
Recovery from bidder—9 Cal. 93; 22 Cal. 511.
Relief from purchase—16 Cal. 559.
§ 696. "When a purchaser refuses to pay, the officer
may, in his discretion, thereafter reject any subsequent
bid of such person. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
§ 697. The two preceding sections must not be con
strued to make the officer liable for any more than the
amount bid by the second or subsequent purchaser, and
the amount collected from the purchaser refusing to pay.
§ 698. When the purchaser of any personal property,
capable of manual delivery, pays the purchase-money,
the officer making the sale must deliver to the purchaser
the property, and, if desired, execute and deliver to him
a certificate of the sale. Such certificate conveys to the
purchaser all the right which the debtor had in such prop
erty on the day the execution or attachment was levied.
Certificate of sale—see next section.
§ 699. When the purchaser of any personal property,
not capable of manual delivery, pays the purchase-money,
the officer making the sale must execute and deliver to
the purchaser a certificate of sale. Such certificate con
veys to the purchaser all the right which the debtor had
in such property on the day the execution or attachment
was levied.
Certificate of sale—tender unnecessary, 5 Cal. 66; 9 Cal. 93.
§ 700. Upon a sale of real property, the purchaser is
substituted to and acquires all the right, title, interest,
and claim of the judgment debtor thereto; and when the
estate is less than a leasehold of two years' unexpired
term, the sale is absolute. In all other cases, the prop
erty is subject to redemption, as provided in this chapter.
The officer must give to the purchaser a certificate of sale,
containing—
1. A particular description of the real property sold;
2. The price bid for each distinct lot or parcel;
3. The whole price paid ;
4. When subject to redemption, it must be so stated.
made,
And iswhen
made
thepayable
judgment,
in under
a specified
whichkind
the sale
of money
has been
or
currency, the certificate must also show the kind of money
or currency in which such redemption may be made,
which must be the same as that specified in the judgment.
A duplicate of such certificate must be filed by the officer
in the office of the recorder of the county.
Purchaser at sale—for plaintifff, 44 Cal. 520: Hen of, 9 Cal. 117.
Title acquired by sale—through certificate, 4 Cal. 196; 5 Cal. 392; 10
Cal.
529; generally,
Specified kind of money—sec. 682, subd. 4, and notes.
Duplicate of certificate filed—31 Cal. 293.
§ 701. Property sold subject to redemption, as provided
in the last section, or any part sold separately, may be
redeemed in the manner hereinafter provided, by the fol
lowing persons, or their successors in interest :
1. The judgment debtor, or his successor in interest, in
the whole or any part of the property ;
2. A creditor having a lien Dy judgment or mortgage on
the property sold, or on some share or part thereof, sub
sequent to that on which the property was sold. The per
sons mentioned in the second subdivision of this section
are, in this chapter, termed redemptionera.
Redemption—mode of, sec. 702 et seq.: effect of, 13 Cal. 79.
Subdivision 1. Judgment debtor, etc. 51 Cal. 539.
Subdivision 2. Judgment creditor—redemption by, sec. 1505; 2
Cal. 595 ; 49 Cal. 193. Mortgage, 9 Cal. 365; 15 Cal. 516; 53 Cal. 77.
Subsequent lien—21 Cal. 108.
Parties entitled to redeem—sees. 346, 347; 2 Cal. 387 ; 4 Cal. 127; 9
Cal. 365; 10 Cal. 547; 14 Cal. 54; 15 Cal. 508; 16 Cal. 580; 21 Cal. 108; 23
Cal. 16; 35 Cal. 713; 36 Cal. 390; 40 Cal. 221.
§ 702. The judgment debtor, or redemptioner, may re
deem the property from the purchaser any time within
six months after the sale, on paying the purchaser the
amount of his purchase, with two per cent, per month
thereon in addition, up to the time of redemption, together
with the amount of any assessment or taxes which the
purchaser may have paid thereon after purchase, and in
terest on such amount, and if the purchaser be also a
creditor having a prior lien to that of the redemptioner,
other than the judgment under which such purchase was
made, the amount of such lien, with interest. [Approved
February 15th, 1876.]
Judgment debtor—sec. 701, subd. 1 ; 47 Cal. 82.
Redemptioner—sec. 701, subd. 2; 52 Cal. 644.
Within six months—21 Cal. 392: one year for redemption of fran
chise. Civil Code, sec. 392.
Amount required for redemption—3 Cal. 295; 11 Cal. 14; 14 Cal. 559;
17 Cal. 476; 37 Cal. 121; 23 Cal. 54; 47 Cal. 147: money, kind of,4 Cal. 127;
26 Cal. 655 ; 45 Cal. 189 : payment under protest, 9 Cal. 366 ; 14 Cal. 232.
Amount of taxes—13 Cal. 609 ; 47 Cal. 82.
§ 703. If property be so redeemed by a redemptioner,
another redemptioner may, within sixty days after the
last redemption, again redeem it from the last redemp
tioner, on paying the sum paid on such last redemption,
with four per cent, thereon in addition, and the amount
of any assessment or taxes which the last redemptioner
may have paid thereon after the redemption by him, with
interest on such amount, and in addition the amount of
any liens held by said last redemptioner prior to his own,
with interest; but the judgment under which the property
was sold need not be so paid as a lien. The property may
be again, and as often as a redemptioner is so disposed,
redeemed from any previous redemptioner, within sixty
days after the last redemption, on paying the sum paid
on the last previous redemption, with four per cent,
thereon in addition, and the amount of any assessments
or taxes which the last previous redemptioner paid after
the redemption by him, with interest thereon, and the
amount of any liens, other than the judgment under
which the property was sold, held by the last redemp
tioner previous to his own, with interest. Written notice
of redemption must be given to the sheriff, and a dupli
cate filed with the recorder of the county; and if any
taxes or assessments are paid by the redemptioner, or if
he has or acquires any lien other than that upon which
the redemption was made, notice thereof must in like
manner be given to the sheriff, and filed with the recorder;
and if such notice be not filed, the property may be re
deemed without paying such tax, assessment, or lien. If
no redemption be made within six months after the sale,
the purchaser, or his assignee, is entitled to a conveyance;
or, if so redeemed, whenever sixty days have elapsed,
and no other redemption has been made, and notice
thereof given, and the time for redemption has expired,
the last redemptioner, or his assignee, is entitled to a
sheriff's deed; but in all cases the judgment debtor shall
have the entire period of six months from the date of the
sale to redeem the property. If the judgment debtor re
deem, he must make the same payments as are required
to effect a redemption by a redemptioner. If the debtor
redeem, the effect of the sale is terminated, and he is
restored to his estate. Upon a redemption by the debtor,
the person to whom the payment is made must execute
and deliver to him a certificate of redemption, acknowl
edged or proved before an officer authorized to take ac
knowledgments of conveyances of real property. Such
certificate must be filed and recorded in the office of the
recorder of the county in which the property is situated,
and the recorder must note the record thereof in the mar
gin of the record of the certificate of sale. [In effect July
1st, 1874.]
48 Cal. 22133:Cal.and224see
of.Sheriff's
51 Cal. 573.deed—Contents
Effect of. as of,
estoppel,
; 23Recitals
Cal. 399;in,38Delivery
Cal. 658.
Certificate of redemption—filed, 31 Cal. 301 : recorded, see Political
Code, sec. 4234: payment of taxes, 17 Cal. 476.
Sum paid on such last redemption—see Amount Requibed for
Redemption, sec. 702n.
§ 704. The payments mentioned in the last two sec
tions may be made to the purchaser or redemptioner, or
for him, to the officer who made the sale. When the
judgment under which the sale has been made is payable
in a specified kind of money or currency, payments must
be made in the same kind of money or currency, and a
tender of the money is equivalent to payment.
Specified kind of money—see sec. 693, subd. 4, and note; 26 Cal. 695,
and compare 38 Cal. 242.
Tender equivalent to payment—17 Cal. 476; 37 Cal. 223; S3 Cal. 77.
§ 705. A redemptioner must produce to the officer or
Eerson, from whom he seeks to redeem, and serve with
is notice to the sheriff :
1. A copy of the docket of the judgment under which
he claims the right to redeem, certified by the clerk of the
court, or of the county where the judgment is docketed,
or if he redeem upon a mortgage or other lien, a note of
the record thereof, certified by the recorder;
2. A copy of any assignment necessary to establish his
claim, verified by the affidavit of himself, or of a sub
scribing witness thereto.
3. An affidavit by himself or his agent, showing the
amount then actually due on the lien.
Production of papers—by redemptioner, 14 Cal. 54; 37 Cal. 121; 49
Cal. 193.
Subdivision 1. Certified copy docket of judgment—51 Cal. 539.
§ 706. Until the expiration of the time allowed for re
demption, the court may restrain the commission of waste
on the property, by order granted with or without notice,
on the application of the purchaser or the judgment cred
itor. But it is not waste for the person in possession of
the property at the time of sale, or entitled to possesssion afterward, during the period allowed for redemption,
to continue to use it in the same manner in which it was
Ereviously used; or to use in the ordinary course of husandry; or to make the necessary repairs of buildings
thereon; or to use wood or timber on the property there
for, or for the repair of fences, or for fuel in his family,
while he occupies the property.
Until expiration of time for redemption—no change of possession,
§ 707. The purchaser, from the time of the sale until a
redemption, and a redemptioner, from the time of his re
demption until another redemption, is entitled to receive,
from the tenant in possession, the rents of the property
sold, or the value ofthe use and occupation thereof. But
when any rents or profits have been received by the judg
ment creditor or purchaser, or his or their assigns, from
the property thus sold preceding such redemption, the
amounts of such rents and profits shall be a credit upon
the redemption money to be paid ; and if the redemptioner
or judgment debtor, before the expiration of the time al
lowed for such redemption, demands in writing of such
purchaser or creditor, or his assigns, a written and veri
fied statement of the amounts of such rents and profits '
thus received, the period for redemption is extended five
days after such sworn statement is given by such pur
chaser or his assigns to such redemptioner or debtor.
If such purchaser or his assigns shall, for a period of
one month from and after such demand, fail or refuse
to give such statement, such redemptioner or debtor may
bring an action in any court of competent jurisdiction, to
compel an accounting and disclosure of such rents and
profits, and until fifteen days from and after the final de
termination of such action, the right of redemption is ex
tended to such redemptioner or debtor.
Rents
Use and
from
occupation—action
tenant in possession—8
for, 5 Cal.
Cal.392592;
; 7 21Cal.Cal.43;135.13 Cal. 514; 18
Cal.
Mortgagor
113; 37 Cal.in424
possession—21
; 38 Cal. 425; 49Cal.Cal.233.165.
Bents and profits—liability for, 2 Cal. 387; 17 fcal, 596 ; 22 Cal. 194;
30 Cal. 425; 31 Cal. 269.
Payment of taxes—by party in possession, 13 Cal. 609.
§ 708. If the purchaser of real property sold on execu
tion, or his successor in interest, be evicted therefrom in
consequence of'irregularities in the proceedings concern
ing the sale, or of the reversal or discharge of the judg
ment, he may recover the price paid, with interest, from
the judgment creditor. If the purchaser of property at
sheriff's sale, or his successor in interest, fail to recover
possession, in consequence of irregularity in the proceed
ings concerning the sale, or because the property sold was
not subject to execution and sale, the court having juris
diction thereof must, after notice and on motion of such
party in interest, or his attorney, revive the original judg
ment in the name of the petitioner, for the amount paid
by such purchaser at the sale, with interest thereon from
the time of payment, at the same rate that the original
judgment bore; and the judgment so revived has the same
force and effect as would an original judgment of the date
of the revival, and no more.
Reimbursement on eviction—38 Cal. 377; and see reimbursement,
where none, under Title Acquired by Sheriff's Deed, sec. 703n.
Irregularity in proceedings — Erroneous judgment, effect of re
versal, 14 Cal. 667 ; 34 Cal. 293 ; 45 Cal. 628: relief from, 16 Cal. 559 ; 21
Cal. 87; 23 Cal. 630 ; 24 Cal. 585.
Not subject to execution and sale—47 Cal. 602.
Revival of judgment—53 Cal. 312.
§ 709. When property, liable to an execution against
several persons, is sold thereon, and more than a due pro
portion of the judgment is satisfied out of the proceeds of
the sale of the property of one of them, or one of them
pays, without a sale, more than his proportion, he may
compel contribution from the others ; and when a judg
ment is against several, and is upon an obligation of one
of them, as security for another, and the surety pays
the amount, or any part thereof, either by sale of his prop
erty or before sale, fie may compel repayment from the
principal; in such case, the person so paying or contrib
uting is entitled to the benefit of the judgment, to enforce
contribution or repayment, if, within ten days after his
payment, he file with the clerk of the court where the
judgment was rendered, notice of his payment and claim
to contribution or repayment. Upon a filing of such no
tice, the clerk must make an entry thereof in the margin
of the docket.
Subrogation—17 Cal. 245.
Contribution by cosurety—primary liability, 53 Cal. 686.
Code Civ. Proc—88.
§ 714. When an execution against property of tbe judg
ment debtor, or of any one of several debtors in the same
judgment, issued to the sheriff of the county where he
resides, or if he do not reside in this State, to the sheriff
of the county where the judgment roll is filed, is returned
unsatisfied in whole or in part, the judgment creditor, at
any time after such return is made, is entitled to an order
from a judge of the court, requiring such judgment debtor
to appear and answer concerning his property before such
judge, or a referee appointed by him, at a time and place
specified in the order; but no judgment debtor must be
required to attend before a judge or referee out of the
county in which he resides. [In effect March 9th, 1880.]
Supplementary proceedings—scope of, 7 Cal. 187; 41 Cal. 298.
Referee—7 Cal. 187.
Receiver—aiding
Conduct of examination—sec.
proceedings, sec.
718 564,
and subd.
note. 4; 26 Cal. 581.
§ 715. After the issuing of an execution against prop
erty, and upon proof, by affidavit of a party or otherwise,
to the satisfaction of a judge of the court, that any judg
ment debtor has property which he unjustly refuses to
apply toward the satisfaction of the judgment, such
judge may, by an order, require the judgment debtor to
appear, at a specified time and place, before such judge,
or a referee appointed by him, to answer concerning the
same; and such proceedings may thereupon be had for
the application of the property of the judgment debtor
toward the satisfaction of the judgment, as are provided
upon the return of an execution. Instead of the order
requiring ' the attendance of the judgment debtor, the
judge may, upon affidavit of the judgment creditor, his
agent, or attorney, if it appear to him that there is danger
of the debtor absconding, order the sheriff to arrest the
debtor and bring him before such judge. Upon being
brought before the judge, he may be ordered to enter into
an undertaking, with sufficient surety, that he will attend
from time to time before the judge or referee, as may be
directed during the pendency or proceedings and until
the final termination thereof, and will not in the mean
time dispose of any portion of his property not exempt
from execution. In default of entering into such under
taking he may be committed to prison. [In effect March
9th, 1880.]
Appear and answer—sec. 718 and note.
Application of property—of judgment debtor, to satisfaction of
judgment, sec. 719.
Arrest of debtor—as provisional remedy, sees. 478-504.
Discharge of persons imprisoned—on civil process, sees. 1143-1154.
§ 716. After the issuing of an execution against prop
erty, and before its return, any person indebted to the
judgment debtor may pay to the sheriff the amount of his
debt, or so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy
the execution; and the sheriff's receipt is a sufficient dis
charge for the amount so paid.
Strict construction—33 Cal. 525.
Attachment, as to-Mjompare sec. 544.
§ 717. After the issuing or return of an execution
against property of the judgment debtor, or of any one
of several debtors in the same judgment, or upon proof
by affidavit or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the judge,
that any person or corporation has property of such judg
ment debtor, or is indebted to him in an amount exceed
ing fifty dollars, the judge may, by an order, require such
person or corporation, or any officer or member thereof, to
appear at a specified time and place before him, or a
referee appointed by him, and answer concerning the
same.
Garnishee, answer of—3 Cal. 253; 4 Cal. 409; 5 Cal. 118.
Garnishment—equitable demands, not subject of, compare 35 Cal.
378: none, of money in custody of the law, 3 Cal. 363 : otherwise, of dis
tributed share of estate, 35 Cal. 392, My. P. Rep. 100.
718. "Witnesses may be required to appear and tesbefore the judge or referee, upon any proceeding un
der this chapter, in the same manner as upon the trial o£
anWitnesses—excuse
Conduct
issue. of examination—41
for absence.Cal.
6 Cal.
298.32 : examination of, 41 Cal.* 293 :
rights and duties of, sees. 2064-2070.
§ 719. The judge or referee may order any property of
a judgment debtor, not exempt from execution, in the
hands of such debtor or any other person, or due to the
judgment debtor, to be applied toward the satisfaction of
the judgment.
Order to apply property—5 Cal. 118: 6Cal.l6; 28 Cal. 581: 47CaL131;
51 Cal. 501.
In the hands of another—50 Cal. 101.
Exempt from execution—sec. 690 and note.
§ 720. If it appear that a person or corporation, alleged
to have property of the judgment debtor, or to be indebted
to him, claims an interest in the property adverse to him,
or denies the debt, the court or judge may authorize, by
an order made to that effect, the judgment creditor to in
stitute an action against such person or corporation for
the recovery of sucn interest or debt; and the court or
judge may, by order, forbid a transfer or other disposition
of such interest or debt, until an action can be commenced
and prosecuted to judgment. Such order may be modified
or vacated by the judge granting the same, or the court
in which the action is brought, at any time, upon such
terms as may be just.
Denial of debt—order to pay, improper, 51 Cal. 501.
Sham claim—38 Cal. 522.
Authorizing action—only when clear case, 5 Cal. 294; and see Sham
Claim, supra.
Discharge of garnishee—and discontinuance, 3 Cal. 253.
§ 721. If any person, party, or witness disobey an or
der of the referee, properly made, in the proceedings be
fore him under this chapter, he may be punished by the
court or judge ordering the reference, for a contempt.
Contempt—sec. 1209 et seq.
§ 726. There can be but one action for the recovery of
any debt, or the enforcement of any right secured by
mortgage upon real estate or personal property, which
action must be in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. In such action, the court may, by its judgment,
direct a sale of the incumbered property (or so much
thereof as may be necessary), and the application of the
proceeds of the sale to the payment of the costs of the
court and the expenses of the sale, and the amount due
to the plaintifff; and if it appear from the sheriff's return
that the proceeds are insufficient, and a balance still re
mains due, judgment can then be docketed for such bal
ance against the defendant or defendants personally lia
ble for the debt, and it becomes a lien on the real estate
of such judgment debtor, as in other cases on which exe
cution may be issued. No person holding a conveyance
from or under the mortgagor of the property mortgaged,
or having a lien thereon, which conveyance or lien does
not appear of record in the proper office at the time of
the commencement of the action, need be made a party
to such action; and the judgment therein rendered, and
the proceedings therein had, are as conclusive against the
Earty holding such unrecorded conveyance or lien as if
e had been made a party to the action.
FORECLOSURE OF MORTGAGES.
One action only—sec. 744; 24 Cal. 382; 26 Cal. 579; 27,Cal. 603: but see
Harden v. Ware, April 7th, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 317; Auld v. Stoddard,
April 20th, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 327.
Enforcement of mortgage—Scope of action, 9 Cal. 123, 365; 14 Cal.
461, 559; 18 Cal. 465; 21 Cal. 87; 53 Cal. 99, 267, 456; and see Personal Lia
bility,
note,see
supra:
complaint,
Cal. 229under
; 28 Cal.Judgment
226; 46 Cal.for
222;deficiency,
and generally,
sec. 426,
and notes:10
parties,
see
note,
infra.
Heal
estate,
on,
see
Mortgage
generally,
note, infra. Personal property, on, see Civil Code, sec. 2967 : 27Cal.258:
pledge, see Civil Code, sec. 3011.
§ 727. If there be surplus money remaining after pay
ment of the amount due on the mortgage, lien, or in
cumbrance, with costs, the court may cause the same to
be paid to the person entitled to it, and in the meantime
may
Deposit
direct
in court—sees.
it to be deposited
573, 574, 2104.
in court.
§ 728. If the debt for which the mortgage, lien, or in
cumbrance is held, is not all due, so soon as sufficient of
the property has been sold to pay the amount due, with
costs, the sale must cease; and afterward, as often as
more becomes due, for principal or interest, the court
may, on motion, order more to be sold. But if the prop
erty cannot be sold in portions, without injury to the par
ties, the whole may be ordered to be sold in the first in
stance, and the entire debt and costs paid, there being a
rebate of interest where such rebate is proper.
Installments-18 Cal. 650; 23 Cal. 16; 38 Cal. 249; 45 Cal. 165; also, see
15 Cal. 499.
§ 731. Anything which is injurious to health, or inde
cent, or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the
free use of property, so as to interfere with the comfort
able enjoyment of life or property, is a nuisance, and the
subject of an action. Such action may be brought by any
person whose property is injuriously affected, or whose
personal enjoyment is lessened by the nuisance ; and by
the judgment, the nuisance may be enjoined or abated, as
well as damages recovered.
§ 732. If a guardian, tenant for life or years, joint
tenant, or tenant in common of real property, commit
waste thereon, any person aggrieved by the waste may
bring an action against him therefore, in which action
there
Waste—damages
may be judgment
for, 5 Cal.for
239,treble
and seedamages.
sec. 746: enjoining, see sec.
745, and 15 Cal. 107; 24 Cal. 467 ; 34 Cal. 14.
§ 733. Any person who cuts down or carries off any
wood or underwood, tree or timber, or girdles or other
wise injures any tree or timber On the land of another
person, or on the street or highway in front of any per
son's house, village or city lot, or cultivated grounds ; or
on the commons or public grounds of any city or town, or
on the street or highway in front thereof, without lawful
authority, is liable to the owner of such land, or to such
city or town, for treble the amount of damages which
may be assessed therefore, in a civil action, in any court
having jurisdiction.
Trespass upon timber, etc.—6 Cal. 162; SI CM. 303: trover lies, 4
Cal. 184.
§ 734. Nothing in the last section authorizes the recov
ery of more than the just valne of the timber taken from
uncultivated woodland, for the repair of a public highway
or bridge upon the land, or adjoining it.
§ 735. If a person recover damages for a forcible or
unlawful entry in or upon, or detention of, any building
or any cultivated real property, judgment may be entered
for three times the amount at which the actual damages
are assessed.
Forcible entry—and unlawful detainer, treble damages, 
§ 738. An action may be brought by any person
against another who claims an estate or interest in real
property adverse to him, for the purpose of determining
such adverse claim.
Action to quiet title—before Code, plaintifff's possession essential,

Obligations—determining claim to, sec. 1050.
§ 739. If the defendant in such action disclaim in his
answer any interest or estate in the property, or suffer
judgment to be taken against him without answer, the
plaintifff cannot recover costs.
Disclaimer-14 Cal. 609; 17 Cal. 262; 22 Cal. 105; 27 Cal. 331; 34 Cal. 563.
§ 740. In an action for the recovery of real property,
where the plaintifff shows a right to recover at the time
the action was commenced, but it appears that his right
has terminated during the pendency of the action, the
verdict and judgment must be according to the fact, and
the plaintifff may recover damages for withholding the
property.
Commencement of action—right to recover at, 14 CaL 465: title
subsequently acquired, 27 Cal. 239; 30 CaL 467; 39 CaL 854; 41 CaL 221;
47 CaL 437.
Termination of right—22 CaL 513.
Pendency of action—sec. 1049.
b 51 Cal. 112.
§ 741. When damages are claimed for 'withholding the
property recovered, upon which permanent improvements
have been made by a defendant, or those under whom he
claims, holding under color of title adversely to the claim
of the plaintifff, in good faith, the value of such improve
ments
Damages
must
forbewithholding—28
allowed as aCal.
set-off
484. against such damages.

§ 742. The court in which an action is pending for the
recovery of real property, or for damages for an injury
thereto, or a judge thereof, may, on motion, upon notice
by either party, for good cause shown, grant an order al
lowing to such party the right to enter upon the property
and make survey and measurement thereof, and of any
tunnels, shafts, or drifts therein, for the purpose of the1 ac
tion, even though entry for such purpose has to be made
through other lands belonging to parties to the action.
[In
Orders,
effectmotions,
March etc.—sec.
10th, 1880.]
1003 et seq.
§ 743. The order must describe the property, and a
copy thereof must be served on the owner or occupant;
and thereupon such party may enter upon the property,
with necessary surveyors and assistants, and make such
survey and measurement ; but if any unnecessary injury
be done to the property, he is liable therefore.
§ 744. A mortgage of real property shall not be deemed
a conveyance, whatever its terms, so as to enable the owner
of the mortgage to recover possession of the real property
without a foreclosure and sale.
Construction of section—under Practice Act, 23 Cal. 16; 29 Cal. 253.
Conveyance deemed mortgage—Deed apparently absolute, so con
strued: 
§ 745. The court may by injunction, on good cause
Shown, restrain the party in possession from doing any
act to the injury of real property during the foreclosure
of a mortgage thereon; or, after a sale on execution, hefore a conveyance.
Injunction—generally, sees. 525-533.
Receiver—sec. 564, SUM. 2.
Waste—Civil Code, sec. 2929: 10 Cal. 265 : 24 Cal. 467: Buckout v.
Swift, 27 Cal. 433: fixtures, 10 Cal. 258; 14 Cal. 72; 23 Cal. 209.
Foreclosure of mortgage—sec. 726 and note.
Execution sales—sec. 694 et seq.
§ 746. When real property has been sold on execution,
the purchaser thereof, or any person who may have suc
ceeded to his interest, may, after his estate becomes abso
lute, recover damages for injury to the property by the
tenant in possession after sale and before possession is de
livered under the conveyance.
See note on Waste to sec. 745.
§ 747. An action for the recovery of real property
against a person in possession cannot be prejudiced by any
alienation made by such person, either before or after the
commencement
Lis pendens—sec.of409the
andaction.
note.
§ 748. In actions respecting mining claims, proof must
be admitted of the customs, usages, or regulations estab
lished and in force at the bar or diggings embracing such
claim; and such customs, usages, or regulations, when not
in conflict with the laws of this State, must govern the de
cision of the action.
§ 752. When several cotenants hold and are in pos
session of real property as parceners, joint tenants, or
tenants in common, in which one or more of them have
an estate of inheritance, or for life or lives, or for years,
an action may he brought by one or more of such persons
for a partition thereof according to the respective rights
of the persons interested therein, and for a sale of such
property, or a part thereof, if it appear that a partition
cannot be made without great prejudice to the owners.
Proceedings for partition—are special and statutory, 19 Cal. 210:
equitable character, 35 Cal. 576; delayed, when, 21 Cal. 191.
Object of partition—27 Cal. 91 ; 35 Cal. 676.
Tenants in common—seeking partition, etc., 3 Cal. 59; 36Cal.112: 37
CaL 520.
Estate of inheritance, etc.—mining interests, 23 Cal. 501.
Collateral relief—taking account, etc., 16 Cal. 464; 26 Cal. 69.
Parol partition—24 Cal. 218, 268; 27 Cal. 418; 46 Cal. 361; Lanterman
c. Williams, June 4th, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 527.
Partition of easements—Civil Code, sec. 807.
§ 753. The interests of all persons in the property,
whether such persons be known or unknown, must be set
forth in the complaint specifically and particularly, as far
as known to the plaintifff; and if one or more of the par
ties, or the share or quantity of interest of any of the
parties, be unknown to the plaintifff, or be uncertain or
contingent, or the ownership of the inheritance depend
upon an executory devise, or the remainder be a contin
gent remainder, so that such parties cannot be named,
that fact must be set forth in the complaint.
Complaint in partition—26 Cal. 69; 27 Cal. 329; 40 Cal. 493 ; 48 Cal.
394; Xauterman r. Williams, June 4th, 1880.5 Pac. C. L. J. 527: com
plaint generally, sec. 426, and notes. Parties, sec. 754; 27 Cal. 329; 3S
Cal. 576; 36CaI. 112; 38 Cal. 638; sees. 384, 387; and generally, sees. 367389. Unknown persons, use of fictitious names, sec. 474; and as to sum
mons, see sec. 756.
Abstract of title—procured before suit, sec. 799.
§ 754. No person having a conveyance of or claiming
a lien on the property, or some part o£ it, need be made a
party to the action, unless such conveyance or lien appear
of record.
Parties—see under Complaint in Partition, sec. 753n.
§ 755. Immediately after filing the complaint in the
Superior Court, the plaintifff must record in the office of
the recorder of the county, or of the several counties in
which the property is situated, a notice of the pendency
of the action, containing the names of the parties so far
as known, the object of the action, and a description of
the property to be affected thereby. From the time of
filing such notice for record, all persons shall be deemed
to have notice of the pendency of the action. [In effect
March
Lis pendens—sec.
10th, 1880.]409 and notes.
§ 756. The summons must be directed to all the joint
tenants and tenants in common, and all persons having
any interest in, or any liens of record by mortgage, judg
ment, or otherwise, upon the property, or upon any par
ticular portion thereof; and generally, to all persons
unknown who have or claim any interest in the property.
Summons in partition—35 Cal. 587 : generally, sees. 405-416; and as to
contents, see sec. 407 and note.'
§ 757. If a party having a share or interest is unknown,
or any one of the known parties reside out of the State,
or cannot bo found therein, and such fact is made to ap
pear by affidavit, the summons may be served on such
absent or unknown party by publication, as in other
cases. When publication is made, the summons, as pub
lished, must be accompanied by a brief description of the
property
Service bywhich
publication—sees.
is the subject
412, 413,
of the
and notes.
action.
§ 758. The defendants who have been personally
served with the summons and a copy of the complaint, or
who have appeared without such service, must set forth
in their answers, fully and particularly, the origin, nature,
and extent of their respective interests in the property;
and if such defendants claim a lien on the property by
mortgage, judgment, or otherwise, they must state the
original amount and date of the same, and the sum re
maining clue thereon; also whether the same has 'been
secured in any other way or not; and if secured, the
nature and extent of such security, or they are deemed
to have waived their right to such lien.
Answer in partition—27 Cal. 329; 33 Cal. 467; Lanterman c. Williams,
Juno 4th, 1880, 6 Pac. C. L. J. 527 : late filing allowed, 40 Cal. 377 : plead
ing disbursements, sec. 798; answer generally, sec. 437, and notes.
§ 759. The rights of the several parties, plaintifff as
well as defendant, may be put in issue, tried, and deter
mined in such action; and when a sale of the premises is
necessary, the title must be ascertained by proof to the
satisfaction of the court, before the judgment of sale can
be made; and where service of the complaint has been
made by publication, like proof must be required of the
right of the absent or unknown parties, before such judg
ment is rendered; except that where there are several
unknown persons having an interest in the property, their
rights may be considered together in the action, and not
as between themselves.
Issues
Mode
Interlocutory
oftried—27
trial—33
decree—review
Cal.
Cal.329467:
; 32 by
Cal.referee,
of,
289;and
33 Cal.
when,
generally,
459;35 48
Cal.see
Cal.549;Order
394.43 Cal.for
625.
Partition,
Final judgment—sec.
sec. 763n. 766, and note.
§ 760. Whenever from any cause it is, in the opinion
of the court, impracticable or highly inconvenient to
make a complete partition, in the first instance, among all
the parties in interest, the court may first ascertain and
determine the shares or interest respectively held by the
original cotenants, and thereupon adjudge and cause a
partition to be made, as if such original cotenants were
the parties and sole parties in interest, and the only
parties to the action, and thereafter may proceed in like
manner to adjudge and make partition separately of each
share or portion so ascertained and allotted, as between
those claiming under the original tenant to whom the
same shall have been so set apart, or may allow them to
remain tenants in common thereof, as they may desire.
§ 761. If it appears to the court, by the certificate of
the county recorder or county clerk, or by the sworn or
verified statement of any person who may have examined
or searched the records, that there are outstanding liens
or encumbrances of record upon such real property, or
any part or portion thereof, which existed and were of
record at the time of the commencement of the action,
and the persons holding such liens are not made parties
to the action, the court must either order such persons to
plemental
be made parties
complaint,
to theoraction,
appoint
by an
a referee
amendment
to ascertain
or sup
whether or not such liens or encumbrances have been paid,
or if not paid, what amount remains due thereon, and
their order among the liens or encumbrances .severally
held by such persons and the parties to the action, and
whether the amount remaining due thereon has been
secured in any manner, and if secured, the nature and
extent of the security.
§ 762. The plaintifff must cause a notice to be served,
a reasonable timo previous to the day for appearance be
fore the referee appointed as provided in the last section,
on each person having outstanding liens of record, who U
not a party to the action, to appear before the referee at
a specified time and place, to make proof, by his own affi
davit or otherwise, of the amount due or to become due
contingently or absolutely thereon. In case such person
be absent, or his residence be unknown, service may be
made by publication, or notice to his agents, under the
direction of the court, in such manner as may be proper.
Tho report of the referee thereon must be made to the
court, and must be confirmed, modified, or set aside, and
a new reference ordered, as the justice of the case may
require.
§ 763. If it be alleged in the complaint and established
by evidence, or if it appear by the evidence without such
allegation in the complaint to the satisfaction of the court,
that the property or any part of it is so situated that par
tition cannot be mado without great prejudice to the
owners, the court may order a sale thereof; otherwise,
upon the requisite proofs being made, it must order a
partition according to the respective rights of the parties
as ascertained by the court, and appoint three ref
erees therefore, and must designate the portion to remain
undivided for the owners whose interests remain un
known, or are not ascertained; provided, that when the
site of an incorporate city or town is included within the
exterior boundaries of tho property to be partitioned,
then, on said fact being established by evidence, tho fol
lowing proceedings shall be had: The court shall there
upon direct tho referees to survey and appraise the entire
property to bo partitioned by actual lots and subdivisions
then existing in tho actual possession of the several ten
ants in common, exclusive of the value of improvements
thereon, first setting apart necessary portions of the property for ways, roads, and streets, as in section seven
hundred and sixty-four of this Code provided, and to re
port such survey and separate appraisement on each lot
and subdivision to tho court. The court may confirm,
change, modify, or set aside the report in whole or in part,
and if necessary appoint new referees. When, after the
final confirmation of the report of such survey and ap
praisement, it shall appear by evidence to the satisfaction
of the court that an equitable partition of the whole prop
erty is impracticable, and a sale of the site of such city
or town, or any portion thereof, will be for the best inter
ests of the owners of tlie whole property, it shall order a
sale thereof; provided, that within sixty ctays thereafter
any tenant in common, or tenants in common, having im
provements erected on any town or city lot or subdivis
ion included in such order of sale, shall have the prior
right to purchase the same at such appraised valuation,
and may pay into court the amount so appraised as the
value thereof, and upon such payment the title shall vest
in such purchaser or purchasers, and the court shall cause
to be executed by said referees a deed for such lot or sub
division in fee and in severalty to such purchaser or pur
chasers; such further proceedings shall then bo had as to
the remainder of the property, and the money so paid to
the court, as by this chapter provided. If, during the
pendency of the action, any of the parties die, or become
insane or otherwise incompetent, the proceedings shall
not for that cause be delayed or suspended, but tho attorney
wli o has appeared for such party may continue to repre
sent sucli interest; and in case any such party has not
appeared by an attorney, the court shall appoint an
attorney to represent the interest which was held by such
party, until his heirs or legal representatives, or success
ors in interest, shall have appeared in the action; and an
attorney so appointed shall be allowed by the court a
reasonable compensation for his services, which may be
taxed as costs against the share or interest represented
by such attorney, and may bo adjudged a lien there
on, in the discretion of the court. [In effect April 12th,
1880.]
Appear by the evidence—23 Cal. 501.
Partition cannot be made—27 Cal. 91.
Sale—sees. 771-784.
Order for partition—Interlocutor;/ character, 35 Cal. 549. Indispenta*
ble. 53 Cal. 24. Review of, new trial, 43 Cal. C25; 45 Cal. 119: appeal, 38
Cal. 038; 43 Lai. 025.
Referee, single—sec. 797; where sale, 23 Cal. 508.
§ 764. In making partition, the referees must divide the
property, and allot the several portions thereof to the
respective parties, quality and quantity relatively consid
ered, according to the respective rights of the parties as
determined by the court, pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter, designating the several portions by proper
landmarks, and may employ a surveyor with the neces
sary assistants to aid them. Before making partition or
sale, the referees may, whenever it will be for the advan
tage of those interested, set apart a portion of the prop
erty for a way, road, or street, and the portion so set
apart shall not be assigned to any of the parties or sold,
but shall remain an open and public way, road, or street,
unless the referees shall set the same apart as a private
way for the use of the parties interested, or some of them,
their heirs and assigns, in which case it shall remain such
private way. Whenever the referees have laid out on any
tract of land roads sufficient in the judgment of said ref
erees to accommodate the public and private wants, they
shall report that fact to the court, and upon the confirma
tion of their report all other roads on said tract shall cease
to be public highways. Whenever it shall appear, in an
action for partition of lands, that one or more of the ten
ants in common, being the owner of an undivided interest
in the tract of land sought to be partitioned, has sold to
another person a specific tract by metes and bounds out of
the common land, and executed to the purchaser a deed of
conveyance, purporting to convey the whole title to such
specific tract to the purchaser in fee and in severalty, the
land described in such deed shall be allotted and set apart
in partition to such purchaser, his heirs or assigns, or in
such other manner as shall make such deed effectual as a
conveyance of the whole title to such segregated parcel,
if such tract or tracts of land can be so allotted or set
apart without material injury of the rights and interests
of the other cotenants who may not have joined in such
conveyance; provided, that in all cases the court shall
direct the referees, in making partition of land, to allot
the share of each of the parties owning an interest in the
whole or in any part of the premises sought to be parti
tioned, and to locate the share of each cotenant, so as to
embrace as far as practicable the improvements made by
such cotenant upon the property, and the value of the im
provements made by the tenants in common must be ex
cluded from the valuation in making allotments, and the
land must he valued without regard to such improve
ment, in case the same can be done without material in
jury to the rights and interests of the other tenants
in common owning such land. [Approved April 3rd,
1876.]
Improvements—35
Specific tract—33 Cal.
Cal.576.102.
Homestead—46 Cal. 259.
§ 765. The referees must make a report of their pro
ceedings, specifying therein the manner in which they
executed their trust, and describing the property divided,
and the shares allotted to each party, with a particular
description of each share.'
§ 766. The court may confirm, change, modify or set
aside the report, and if necessary, appoint new referees.
Upon the report being confirmed, judgment must be ren
dered that such partition be effectual forever, which judg
ment is binding and conclusive:
1. On all persons named as parties to the action, and
their legal representatives, who have at the time any in
terest in the property divided, or any part thereof, as
owners in fee or as tenants for life or for years, or as en
titled to the reversion, remainder, or the inheritance of
such property, or any part thereof, after the determination
of a particular estate therein, and who by any contingency .
who
may have
be entitled
an interest
to a beneficial
in any undivided
interest inshare
the property,
thereof, or
as .
tenants for years or for life ;
2. On all persons interested in the property, who may
be unknown, to whom notice has been given of the action
for partition by publication;
3. On all other persons claiming from such parties or
persons, or either of them.
And no judgment is invalidated by reason of the death
of any party before final judgment or decree; but such
judgment or decree is as conclusive against the heirs, legal
representatives, or assigns of such decedent, as if it had
been entered before his death.
Judgment of partition—scope of, 41 Cal. 679; binding effect of, 32
Cal. 289 ; 35Cal.576 ; 50 Cal. 376; 51 Cal. 429,410; 53 Cal. 362: appealfrom,
parties notified on, 38 Cal. 638.
§ 767. The judgment does not affect tenants for years
less than ten, to the whole of the property which is the
subject of the partition.
§ 768. The expenses of the referees, including those of
a surveyor and his assistants, when employed, must be
ascertained and allowed by the court, and the amount
thereof, together with the fees allowed by the court, in its
discretion, to the referees, mast be apportioned among
the different parties to the action, equitably.
Referee's fees—sec. 1028.
§ 769. When a lien is on an undivided interest or estate
of any of the parties, such lien, if a partition be made,
shall thenceforth be a charge only on the share assigned
to such party; but such share must be first charged with
its Just proportion of the costs of the partition, in prefer
ence to such lien.
§ 770. When a part of the property only is ordered
to i)e sold, if there be an estate for life or years, in an un
divided share of the whole property, such estate may be
set off in any part of the property not ordered to be sold.
§ 771. The proceeds of the sale of incumbered prop
erty must be applied under the direction of the court, as
follows :
1. To pay its just proportion of the general costs of the
action;
2. To pay the costs of the reference ;
3. To satisfy and cancel of record the several liens in
their order of priority, by payment of the sums due and
to become due ; the amount due to be verified by affidavit
at the time of payment;
4. The residue among the owners of the property sold,
according to their respective shares therein.
§ 772. Whenever any party to an action, who holds a
lien upon the property, or any part thereof, has other
securities for the payment of the amount of such lien, the
court may, in its discretion, order such securities to be ex
hausted before a distribution of the proceeds of sale, or
may order a just deduction to be made from the amount
of the lien on the property, on account thereof.
§ 773. The proceeds of sale and the securities taken by
the referees, or any part thereof, must be distributed by
them to the persons entitled thereto, whenever the court
so directs. But in case no direction be given, all of such
proceeds and securities must be paid into court, or depos
ited therein, or as directed by the court.
Deposit in court—sees. 672-574, 2102.
§ 774. When the proceeds of the sale of any share or?
parcel belonging to persons who are parties to the action,'
and who are known, are paid into court, the action may,
tion
be continued
of their respective
as between
claims
such thereto,
parties, which
for themust
determinabe as§ 775-9
certained and adjudged by the court. Further testimony
may be taken in court, or by a referee, at the discretion of
the court, and the court may, if necessary, require such
parties to present the facts or law in controversy, by
pleadings, as in an original action.
§ 775. All sales of.real property, made by referees un
der this chapter, must be made at publio auction to the
highest bidder, upon notice published in the manner re
quired for the sale of real property on execution. The
notice must state the terms of sale, and if the property or
any part of it is to be sold subject to a prior estate, charge,
or lien, that must be stated in the notice.
Terms, distinct lots—sec. 782.
Notice of execution sales—sees. 692, 693 : proceedings, sec. 694 et seq.
§ 776. The court must, in the order for sale, direct the
terms of credit which may be allowed for the purchasemoney of any portion of the premises of which it may
direct a sale on credit, and for that portion of which the
purchase-money is required, by the provisions hereinafter
contained, to be invested for the benefit of unknown own
ers, infants, or parties out of the State.
§ 777. The referees may take separate mortgages and
other securities for the whole, or convenient portions of
the purchase-money, of such parts of the property as are
directed by the court to be sold on credit, for the shares of
any known owner of full age, in the name of such owner;
and for the shares of an infant, in the name of the guar
dian of such infant; and for other shares, in the name of
the clerk of the county and his successors in office.
§ 778. The person entitled to a tenancy for life, or
years, whose estate has been sold, is entitled to receive
such sum as may be deemed a reasonable satisfaction for
such estate, and which the person so entitled may consent
to accept instead thereof, by an instrument in writing,
filed with the clerk of the court. Upon the filing of such
consent, the clerk must enter the same in the minutes of
the court.
§ 779. If such consent be not given, filed, and entered,
as provided in the last section, at or before a judgment of
sale is rendered, the court must ascertain and determine
what proportion of the proceeds of the sale, after deduct
ing expenses, will be a just and reasonable sum to be
allowed on account of such estate; and must order the
same to be paid to such party, or deposited in court for
him, as the case may require.
§ 780. If the persons entitled to such estate for life or
years be unknown, the court must provide for the protec
tion of their rights, in the same manner, as far as may be,
as if they were known and had appeared.
§ 781. In all cases of sales, when it appears that any
person has a vested or contingent future right or estate in
any of the property sold, the court must ascertain and
settle the proportional value of such contingent or vested
right or estate, and must direct such proportion of the
proceeds of the sale to be invested, secured, or paid over,
in such manner as to protect the rights and interests of
the parties.
§ 782. In all cases of sales of property the terms must
be made known at the time ; and if the premises consist
of distinct farms or lots, they must be sold separately.
§ 783. Neither of the referees, nor any person for the
benefit of either of them, can be interested in any pur
chase ; nor can a guardian of an infant party be interested
in the purchase of any real property, being the subject of
the action, except for the benefit of the infant. All sales
contrary to the provisions of this section are void.
§ 784. After completing a sale of the property, or any
part thereof ordered to be sold, the referees must report
the same to the court, with a description of the different
parcels of laud sold to each purchaser; the name of the
purchaser; the price paid or secured; the terms and con
ditions of the sale, and the securities, if any, taken. The
report must be filed in the office of the clerk of the county
where the property is situated.
§ 785. If the sale be confirmed by the court, an order
must be entered, directing the referees to execute convey
ances and take securities pursuant to such sale, which
they are hereby authorized to do. Such order may also
give directions to them respecting the disposition of the
proceeds of the sale.
§ 786. When a party entitled to a share of the property,
or an encumbrancer entitled to have his lien paid out of
the sale, becomes a purchaser, the referees may take his
receipt for so much of the proceeds of the sale as belongs
to him.
§ 787. The conveyances must be recorded in the county
where the premises are situated, and shall be a bar against
all persons interested in the property in any way who
shall have been named as parties in the action, and
against all such parties and persons as were unknown, if
the summons was served by publication, and against all
persons claiming under them, or either of them, and
against all persons having unrecorded deeds or liens at
the commencement of the action. [In effect July 1st,
1874.]
§ 788. When there are proceeds of a sale belonging to
an unknown owner, or to a person without the State, who
has no legal representative within it, the same must be
invested in bonds of this State or of the United States,
for the benefit of the persons entitled thereto.
§ 789. When the security of the proceeds of sale is
taken, or when an investment of any such proceeds is
made, it must be done, except as herein otherwise pro
vided, in the name of the clerk of the county where the
papers are filed, and his successors in office, who must
hold the same for the use and benefit of the parties in
terested, subject to the order of the court.
fi 790. When security is taken by the referees on a
e, and the parties interested in such security, by an in
strument in writing, under their hands, delivered to the
referees, agree upon the shares and proportions to which
they are respectively entitled; or when shares and propor
tions have been previously adjudged by the court, such
securities must be taken in the names of, and payable to,
the parties respectively entitled thereto, and must be de
livered to such parties upon their receipt therefore. Such
agreement and receipt must be returned and filed with
the clerk.
§ 791. The clerk in whose name a security is taken, or
by whom an investment is made, and his successors in
office, must receive the interest and principal as it becomes
due, and apply and invest the same as the court may di
rect; and must deposit with the county treasurer all
securities taken, and keep an account in a book provided
and kept for that purpose, in the clerk's office, free for
inspection by all persons, of investments and monies re
ceived by him thereon, and the disposition thereof.
§ 792. When it appears that partition cannot be made
equal between the parties, according to their respective
rights, without prejudice to the rignts and interests of
some of them, and a partition be ordered, the court may
adjudge compensation to be made by one party to an.
Code Civ. Peoc—85.
other,
On account
PARTITION
of the OF
inequality
BEAL PKOPERTY.
; but such compensa
290
tion shall not he required to he made to others by owners
unknown, nor by an infant, unless it appears that such
infant has personal property sufficient for that purpose,
and that his interest will be promoted thereby. And in
all cases, the court has power to make compensatory ad
justment between the respective parties, according to the
ordinary principles of equity.
Deposit in court, sees. 573, 2104.
§ 793. "When the share of an infant is sold, the pro
ceeds of the sale may he paid by the referee making the
sale, to his general guardian, or the special guardian ap
pointed for him in the action, upon giving the security
required by law or directed by order of the court.
General guardian—sees. 1747-1809.
Guardian ad litem—generally, sees. 372, 373: in partition, limited
powers, 19 Cal. 210.
f 794. The guardian who may be entitled to the cusy and management of the estate of an insane person,
or other person adjudged incapable of conducting his own
affairs, whose interest in real property has been sold, may
receive, in behalf of such person, his share of the pro
ceeds of such real property from the referees, on execut
ing, with sufficient sureties, an undertaking, approved by
a judge of the court, that he will faithfully discharge the
trust reposed in him, and will render a true and just ac
count to the person entitled, or to his legal representative.
[In effect March 10th, 1880.]
Guardians—sec. 793n.
§ 795. The general guardian of an infant, and the
guardian entitled to the custody and management of the
estate of an insane person, or other person adjudged inca
pable of conducting his own affairs, who is interested in
real estate held in joint tenancy, or in common, or in
any other manner so as to authorize his being made a
party to an action for the partition thereof, may consent
to a partition without action, and agree upon the share to
be set off to such infant or other person entitled, and may
execute a release, in his behalf, to the owners of the
shares, of the parts to which they may be respectively
entitled, upon an order of the court.
Guardians—sec. 793n.
§ 796. The costs of partition, including reasonable
counsel fees, expended by the plaintifff or either of the
defendants, for the common benefit, fees of referees, and
other disbursements, must be paid by the parties respect
ively entitled to share in the lands divided, in proportion
to their respective interests therein, and may be included
and specified in the judgment. In that case, they shall
be a lien on the several shares, and the judgment may be
enforced, by execution, against such shares, and against
other property held by the respective parties. When,
however, litigation arises between some of the parties
only,, the court may require the expense of such litigation
to be paid by the parties thereto, or any of them. [In
effect July 1st, 1874.]
Costs—16 Cal. 471.
Referees' fees, etc.—sec. 678 and note.
§ 797. The court, with the consent of the parties, may
appoint a single referee, instead of three referees, in the
proceedings under the provisions of this chapter; and the
single referee, when thus appointed, has all the powers
and may perform all the duties required of the three ref
erees.
§ 798. If it appear that other actions or proceedings
have been necessarily prosecuted or defended by any one
of the tenants in common, for the protection, confirmation,
or perfecting of the title, or setting the boundaries, or
making a survey or surveys of the estate partitioned, the
court shall allow to the parties to the action who have
paid the expense of such litigation or other proceedings,
all the expenses necessarily incurred therein, except
counsel fees, which shall have accrued to the common
benefit of the other tenants in common, with interest
thereon
and in the
from
same
the kind
date of making
money expended
the said expenditures,
or paid, and the same must be pleaded and allowed by the court and
included in the final judgment, and shall be a lien upon
the share of each tenant, respectively, in proportion to
his interest, and shall be enforced in the same manner as
taxable costs of partition are taxed and collected. [Ap
proved February 4th, 1876.]
§ 799. If it appears to the court that it was necessary
to have made an abstract of the title to the property to
be partitioned, and such abstract shall have been pro
cured by the plaintifff, or if the plaintifff shall have failed
to have the same made before the commencement of the
action, and any one of the defendants shall have had
such abstract afterward made, the cost of the abstract,
with interest thereon from the time the same is subject to
the inspection of the respective parties to the action, must
be allowed and taxed. Whenever such abstract is pro
duced [procured ?] by the plaintifff, before the commence
ment of the action, he must file with his complaint a no
tice that an abstract of the title has been made, and is sub
ject to the inspection and use of all the parties to the
action, designating therein where the abstract will be kept
for inspection. But if the plaintifff shall have failed to
procure such abstract before commencing the action, and
any defendant shall procure the same to be made,1ie shall,
as soon as he has directed it to be made, file a notice there
of in the action, with the clerk of the court, stating -who is
making the same and where it will be kept when finished.
The court or the judge thereof may direct, from time to
time, during the progress of the. action, who shall have
the custody of the abstract.
§ 800. The abstract mentioned in the last preceding
section may be made by any competent searcher of rec
ords, and need not be certified by the recorder or other
officer, but instead thereof, it must be verified by the affi
davit of the person making it, to the effect that he believes
it to be correct; but the same may be corrected, from time
to time, if found incorrect, under the direction of the
court.
§ 801. "Whenever, during the progress of the action for
partition, any disbursements shall have been made, under
the direction of the court, or the judge thereof, by a party
thereto, interest must be allowed thereon from the time
of making such disbursements.
§ 802. The writ of scire facias is abolished. [In effect
March 10th, 1880.]
Scire facias—for reviving executions, formerly, see sec. 685n.
Quo warranto—abolished by Code, restored 1880, see sec. 76, subd. 5:
amend accordingly, note to sec. 51, entitled Writs, certain, abol
ished.
§ 803. An action may be brought by the attorney-gen
eral, in the name of the people of this State, upon his
own information, or upon the complaint of a private
party, against any person who usurps, intrudes into, or
unlawfully holds or exercises any public office, civil or
military, or any franchise within this State. And the at
torney-general must bring the action, whenever he has
reason to believe that any such office or franchise has
been usurped, intruded into, or unlawfully held or exer
cised by any person, or when he is directed to do so by
the governor.
Complaint—sec. 804 : security by relator, sec. 810.
Office-14 Cal. 43; 25 Cal. 98; 28 Cal. 382; 50 Cal. 433.
Usurper or intruder—10 Cal. 376; 20 Cal. 50.
Remedy for usurpation of office—quo warranto, 3 Cal. 167 ; 7 Cal. 393,
432
Cal. 524; contesting
elections,
distinct,
sec. 1011proceeding,
et sea.; 283 Cal.
129:; 47inapplicable
when, 47 Cal.
524; not
by collateral
Cal.
167; 13 Cal. 621: 17 Cal. 626 ; 23 Cal. 314: certiorari improper, Lauibt).
Schottler, March 17th, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 140.
Franchise—Civil Code, sec. 358: dissolution of corporations, Civil
Code, sees. 399, 400.
§ 804. Whenever such action is brought, the attorneygeneral , in addition to the statement of the cause of action,
may also set forth in the complaint the name of the person
rightly entitled to the office, with a statement of his right
thereto; and in such case, upon proof by affidavit that the
defendant has received fee9 or emoluments belonging to
the office, and by means of his usurpation thereof, an order
may be granted by a justice of the Supreme Court, or a
judge of the Superior Court, for the arrest of such de
fendant and holding him to bail; and thereupon he may
be arrested and held to bail in the same manner, and with
the same effect, and subject to the same rights and liabili
ties, as in other civil actions where the defendant is subject
to arrest. [In effect March 10th, 1880.]
Action—where several claimants, sec. 808.
•
Right to the office—proof of, 10 Cal. 377.
Complaint—14 Cal. 43; 16 Cal. 358.
Arrest
Answerand
-28bail—sec.
Cal. 382. 478 etseq.
§ 805. In every such action, judgment may be ren
dered upon the right of the defendant, and also upon the
right of the party so alleged to be entitled, or only upon
the right of the defendant, as justice may require.
Judgment—sec. 809 ; 27 Cal. 470.
Review—of contested election cases, 24 Cal. 449, 457.
§ 806, If the judgment'be rendered upon the right of
the person so alleged to be entitled, and the same be in
favor of such person, he will be entitled, after taking the
oath of office and executing such official bond as may be
required by law, to take upon himself the execution of
the office.
§ 807. If judgment be rendered upon the right
# of the
person so alleged to be entitled, in favor of such person,
he may recover, by action, the damages which lie may
have sustained by reason of the usurpation of the office
by the defendant.
Damaged sustained—28 Cal. 21, 51.
§ 808. When several persons claim to be entitled to
the same office or franchise, one action may be brought
against all such persons, in order to try their respective
rights to such office or franchise.
§ 809. When a defendant, against whom such action
has been brought, is adjudged guilty of usurping or in
truding into, or unlawfully holding any office, franchise,
§ 810
or privilege, judgment must be rendered that such de
fendant he excluded from the office, franchise, or priv
ilege, and that he pay the costs of the action. The court
may also, in its discretion, impose upon the defendant a
fine not exceeding five thousand dollars, which fine, when
collected, must be paid into the treasury of the State.
§ 810. "When the action is brought upon the informa
tion or application of a private party, the attorney-gen
eral may require such party to enter into an undertaking,
with sureties to be approved by the attorney-general, con
ditioned that such party or the sureties will pay any judg
ment for costs or damages recovered against the plaintifff,
and all the costs and expenses incurred in the prosecution
of the action. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
§ 813. All steamers, vessels, and boats are liable:
1. For services rendered on board at the request of, or
on contract with, their respective owners, masters, agents,
or consignees;
2. For supplies furnished in this State for their use, at
the request of their respective owners, masters, agents, or
consignees ;
3. For work done or materials furnished in this State
for their construction, repair, or equipment;
4. For their wharfage and anchorage within this State ;
5. For non-performance, or malperformance, of any con
tract for the transportation of persons or property between
places within the State, made by their respective owners,
masters, agents, or consignees ;
6. For injuries committed by them to persons or prop
erty, in this State.
Demands for these several causes constitute liens upon
all steamers, vessels, and boats, and have priority in their
order herein enumerated, and have preference over all
other demands; but such liens only continue in force for
the period of one year from the time the cause of action
accrued. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Section constitutional—jurisdiction of State Courts, 1 Cal. 485; 2Cal.
308; 5Cal. 268; 9 Cal. 697; 13 Cal. 369; 34 Cal. 676; 42 Cal. 227, 469; 50 CaL
^Practice under section—admiralty procedure inapplicable, 18 Cal.
Subdivision 1. Services rendered—seamen's wages, sec. 114; 1
Cal. 485. Salvage, Civil Code, sec. 2079.
Subdivision 2. Supplies furnished—request of master, 50 Cal.
241.
Subdivision 5. Transportation, contract for—of passengers, 13
Cal. 369: 18 Cal. 526: of property, 6 Cal. 462 ; 42 Cal. 227.
Subdivision 6. Injuries to property—collision, 2 Cal. 370.
Lien—when attaches, 8 Cal. 418 : defined, sec. 1180.
Preference—over all other demands, as to labor claims, see1 sees.
1204-1206.
Period—of one year, when begins, 29 Cal. 419.
§ 814. Actions for any of the causes specified in the
preceding section must be brought against the owners by
name, if known*, but if not known, that fact shall be
stated in the complaint, and the defendants shall be desig
nated as unknown owners. Other persons having a lien
upon the vessel may be made defendants in the action,
the nature and amount of such lien being stated in the
complaint. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Unknown owners—fictitious designation of, sec. 474.
Parties—wife, 18 Cal. 526 : generally, sec. 367 et seq.
§ 815. The complaint must designate the steamer, ves
sel, or boat by name, and must be verified by the oath of
the plaintifff, or some one on his behalf.
Complaint—in general, sec. 426n.
Verification of pleadings—sec. 446.
§ 816. The summons and copy of the complaint must
be served on the owners if they can be found ; otherwise,
they may be served on the master, mate, or person having
charge of the steamer, vessel, or boat. [In effect March
10th, 1880.]
Service of summons—on person, confers jurisdiction, 2 Cal. 308:
generally, sec. 410 etseq.
§ 817. The plaintifff, at the time of issuing the sum
mons, or at any time afterward, may have the steamer,
vessel, or boat, with its tackle, apparel, and furniture, at
tached as security for the satisfaction of any judgment
that may be recovered in the action. [In effect July 1st,
1874.]
Attachment—not necessary to acquire lien on vessel, 7 Cal. 405, and
see 8 Cal. 418 : generally, sec. 537 et seq.
Steamer, vessel, or boat—used In navigating the waters of this State,
Statute 1850; seel Cal. 162.
§ 818. The clerk of the court must issue a writ of at
tachment, on the application of the plaintifff, upon receiv
ing a written undertaking on behalf of the plaintifff, exe
cuted by two or more sufficient sureties, to the effect that
if the judgment be rendered in favor of the owner of the
steamer, vessel, or boat, as the case may be, he will pay
all costs and damages that may be awarded against him,
or all damages that may be sustained by him from the
attachment, not exceeding the sum specified in the under
taking, which
shallJuly
in no
be less than five hundred
dollars.
[In, effect
1st,case
1874.]•
Attachment bond—generally, compare sec. 539.
Undertakings—generally, sec. 941n : qualifications of Sureties, sec.
1057.
§ 819. The writ must be directed to the sheriff of the
county within which the steamer, vessel, or boat lies, and
direct him to attach such steamer, vessel, or boat, with
its tackle, apparel, and furniture, and keep the same in
his custody until discharged in due course of law. [In
effect July 1st, 1874.]
§ 820. The sheriff to whom the writ is directed and de
livered must execute it without delay, and must attach
and keep in his custody the steamer, vessel, or boat named
therein, with its tackle, apparel, and furniture, until dis
charged in due course of law; but the sheriff is not author
ized by any such writ to interfere with the discharge of
any merchandise on board of such steamer, vessel, or
boat, or with the removal of any trunks or other property
of passengers, or of the captain, mate, seamen, steward,
cook, or other persons employed on board. [In effect July
1st, 1874.]
§ 821. The owner, or the master, agent, or consignee of
the steamer, vessel, or boat, may, on behalf of the owner,
appear and answer, or plead to the action; and may ex
cept to the sufficiency of the sureties on the undertaking
filed on behalf of the plaintifff, and may require sureties
to justify, as upon bail on arrest. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Appearance—sec. 1014.
Answer—sec. 437 and notes.
Justification of sureties—sec. 495.
§ 822. After the attachment is levied, the owner, or the
master, agent, or consignee of the steamer, vessel, or boat,
miiy, on behalf of the owner, have the attachment dis
charged, upon giving to the sheriff an undertaking of at
least two sufficient sureties in an amount sufficient to
satisfy the demand in suit, besides costs, or depositing
that amount with the sheriff. Upon receiving such under
taking or amount, the sheriff must restore to the owner, or
the master, agent, or consignee of the owner, the steamer,
vessel, or boat attached. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Counter-bond—1 Cal. 165, and compare sec. 540 : undertakings, see
sec. 818n.
§ 823. After the appearance in the action of the owner,
the attachment may, on motion, also be discharged, in the
same manner, and on like terms and conditions, as at
tachments in other ease's, subject to the provisions of sec.
825. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Discharge of attachment—sees. 554-558.
§ 824. If the attachment be not discharged, and a
judgment be recovered in the action in favor ofthe plaint
iff, and an execution be issued thereon, the sheriff must
sell at public auction, after publication of notice of such
sale for ten days, the steamer, vessel, or boat, ' with its
tackle, apparel, and furniture, or such interest therein as
may be necessary, and must apply the proceeds of the sale
as follows :
1. When the action is brought for demands other than
the wages of mariners, boatmen, and others employed in
the service of the steamer, vessel, or boat sold, to the pay
ment of the amount of such wages, as specified in the ex
ecution ;
2. To the payment of the judgment and costs, includ
ing his fees ;
3. He must pay any balance remaining to the owner, or
to the master, agent, or consignee, who may have ap
peared on behalf of the owner, or if there be no appear
ance, then into court, subject to the claim of any party
or parties legally entitled thereto. [In effect July 1st,
1874.]
Sale on execution—generally, sec. 694 et seq.
Payment into court—sees. 572-574, 2104.
§ 825. Any mariner, boatman, or other person em
ployed in the service of the steamer, vessel, or boat at
tached, who may wish to assert his claim for wages against
the same, the attachments being issued for other demands
than such wages, may file an affidavit of his claim, set
ting forth the amount and the particular service rendered,
with the clerk of the court; and thereafter no attachment
can be discharged upon filing an undertaking, unless the
amount of such claim, or the amount determined as pro
vided in the next section, be covered thereby, in addition
to the other requirements: and any execution issued
against such steamer, vessel, or boat, upon judgment re
covered thereafter, must direct the application of the pro
ceeds of any sale :
1. To the payment of the amount of such claims filed,
or the amount determined as provided in the next sec
tion, which amount the clerk must insert in the writ;
2. To the payment of the judgment and costs and sher
iff's fees; and must direct the payment of any balance to
the owner, master, or consignee who may have appeared
in the action ; but if no appearance by them be made
therein, it must direct a deposit of the balance in court.
[In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Preferred claims—for wages, etc., sees. 1204-1206.
Deposit in court—sees. 572 et seq., 2104.
§ 826. If the claim of the mariner, boatman, or other
person, filed with the clerk of the court, as provided in the
last section, be not contested within five days after notice
of the filing thereof by the owner, master, agent, or con
signee of the steamer, vessel, or boat against which the
claim is filed, or by any creditor, it shall be deemed ad
mitted; but if contested, the clerk must indorse upon the
affidavit thereof a statement that it is contested, and the
grounds of the contest, and must immediately thereafter
order the matter to a single referee for his determination,
or he may hear the proofs and determine the matter him
self. The judgment of the clerk or referee may be re
viewed by a court in which the action is pending, or a
judge thereof, immediately after the same is given, and
the judgment of the court or judge shall be final. On the
review, the court or judge may use the minutes of the
proofs taken by the clerk or referee, or may take the
proofs anew. [In effect March 10th, 1880.]
§ 827. The notice of sale published by the sheriff must
contain a statement of the measurement and tonnage of
the steamer, vessel, or boat, and a general description of
her condition.
§ 832. Actions in Justices' Courts must be commenced,
and, subject to the right to change the place of trial, as in
this chapter provided, must be tried :
1. If there be no Justices' Court for the township or
city in which the defendant resides—in any city or town
ship of the county in which he resides ;
2. When two or more persons are jointly, or jointly and
severally, bound in any debt or contract, or otherwise
jointly liable in the same action, and reside in different
townships or different cities of the same county, or in
different counties—in the township or city in which any
of the persons liable may reside;
3. In cases of injury to the person or property—in the
township or city where the injury was committed, or
where the defendant resides ;
4. If for the recovery of personal property, or the valne
thereof, or damages for taking or detaining the same—in
the township or city in which the property may be found,
or in which the property was taken, or in which the de
fendant resides;
5. When the defendant is a non-resident of the county—
in any township or city wherein he may be found ;
6. When the defendant is a non-resident of the State—in
any township or city in the State ;
7. When a person has contracted to perform an obliga
tion at a particular place, and resides in another county,
township, or city—in the township or city in which such
obligation is to be performed, or in which he resides ; and
the township or city in which the obligation is incurred
shall be deemed to be the township or city in which it is
to be performed sinless there is a special contract to the
contrary;
8. When the parties voluntarily appear and plead with
out summons—in any township or city in the State ;
9. In all other cases—in the township or city in which
the defendant resides. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Residence—as
Jurisdiction ofaJustices'
jurisdictional
Courts—sees.
fact, 15 Cal.112-115,
296; 18925.
Cal. 128; 34 Cal. 321.
§ 833. The court may, at any time before the trial, on
motion, change the place of trial in the following cases :
1. When it appears to the satisfaction of the justice be
fore whom the action,is pending, by affidavit of either
party, that such justice is a material witness for either
party;
2. When either party makes and flies an affidavit that
he believes that he cannot have a fair and impartial trial
before such justice, by reason of the interest, prejudice,
or bias of the justice;
3. When a jury has been demanded, and either party
makes and riles an affidavit that he cannot have a fair
and impartial trial, on account of the bias or prejudice of
the citizens of the township or city against him;
4. When, from any cause, the justice is-disqualified from
acting;
5. When the justice is sick or unable to act.
Change of venue—generally, sec. 397 et seq.: effect of order for, 50
Cal. 44.3.
Subdivision 2. Partiality alleged—transfer Imperative, 5 Cal. 507 ;
22 Cal. 34.
§ 834. The place of trial cannot be changed, on motion
of the same party, more than once, upon any or all the
grounds specified in the first, second, and third subdivis
ions of the preceding section.
See notes to last section.
§ 835. When the court orders the place of trial to be
changed, the action must be transferred for trial to a court
the parties may agree'upon ; and if they do not so agree,
then to another Justices' Court in the same county.
§ 836. After an order has been made, transferring the
action for trial to another court, the following proceedings
must be had:
1. The justice ordering the transfer must immediately
transmit to the justice of the court to which it is trans
ferred, on payment by the party applying of all the costs
that have accrued, all the papers in the action, together
with a certified transcript from his docket of the proceed
ings therein;
2. Upon the receipt by him of such papers, the justice
.of the court to which the case is transferred must issue a
notice, stating when And where the trial will take place,
which notice must be served upon the parties at least one
day before the time fixed for trial.
§ 837. From the time the order changing the place of
trial is made, the court to which the action is thereby
transferred has the same jurisdiction over it as though it
had
Jurisdiction
been commenced
vests—50 Cal.
in 441.
such court.*
Further change of venue—22 Cal. 34.
§ 838. The parties to an action in a Justices' Court can
not give evidence upon any question which involves the
title or possession of real property, or the legality of any
tax, impost, assessment, toll, or municipal tine, nor can
any issue presenting such question be tried by such court;
and if it appear, from the answer of the defendant, veri
fied by his oath, that the determination of the action will
necessarily involve the question of title or possession to
real property, or the legality of any tax, impost, assess
ment, toll, or municipal fine, the justice must suspend all
further proceedings in the action and certify the plead
ings, and, if any of the pleadings are oral, a transcript of
the same, from his docket to the clerk of the Superior
Court of the county; and from the time of filing such
pleadings or transcript with the clerk, the Superior Court
shall have over the action the same jurisdiction as if it
had been commenced therein ; provided, that in cases of
forcible entry and detainer, ot which Justices' Courts
have jurisdiction, any evidence, otherwise competent,
may be given, and any question properly involved there
in may be determined. [In effect March 26th, 1880.]
Oertiying to Superior Court—from Justices' Courts in cities and
counties, see sec. 92: mandamus for refusal, 50 Cal. 509.
Title or possession of realty involved-^-see sec. 112, subd. 2 and
notes;
Legality
alsoof
31 tax,
Cal. etc.,
140: trespass,
involved—see
when within
sec. 112,jurisdiction,
subd. 4 and note:
53 Cal.2423.Cal.
61.
Forcible entry and detainer—jurisdiction of, sec. 113, subd. 1 and
note.
date upon which it was filed, and at any time within one
year thereafter the plaintifff may have summons issued.
Issuance of summons—generally, sec. 406.
Payment
§ 841. At
of fees—in
any time
cities after
and counties,
the complaint
sec. 91.
is filed, the
defendant may, in writing, or by appearing and pleading,
waive the issuing of summons.
Waiver—compare sec. 406.
§ 842. Parties in Justices' Courts may appear and act
in person or by attorney ; and any person, except the con
stable by whom the summons or jury process was served,
may act as attorney.
Justices' Court practitioners—sec. 96, and note.
Attorneys—generally, sec. 275, et seq.
§ 843. When an infant, insane, ot incompetent person
is a party, he must appear either by his general guardian,
if he have one, or by a guardian ad litem appointed by
the justice. When a guardian ad litem is appointed by
the justice, he must be appointed as follows :
1. If the infant, insane, or incompetent person be plaint
iff, the appointment must be made before the summons
is issued, upon the application of the infant, if he be of
the age of fourteen years; if under that age, or if insane
or incompetent, upon the application of a relative or
friend.
2. If the infant, insane, or incompetent person be de
fendant, the appointment must be made at the time the
summons is returned, or before the answer, upon the ap
plication of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years,
and apply at or before the summons is returned. If he
be under the age of fourteen, or be insane or incompetent,
or neglect so to apply, then upon the application of a rel
ative or friend, or any other party to the action, or by the
justice, on his own motion. [In effect March 26th, 1880.]
Guardians—compare sec3. 372, 373, and notes.
§ 844. The summons must be directed to the defend
ant, and signed by the justice, and must contain:"
1. The title of the court, name of the county and city
or township in which the action is commenced, and the
names of the parties thereto ;
2. A sufficient statement of the cause of action, in gen
eral terms, to apprise the defendant of the nature of the
claim against him;
3. A direction that the defendant appear and answer
before the justice, at his office, as specified in sec. 845 of
this Code;
4. In an action arising on a contract for the recovery of
money or damages only, a notice that unless the defend
ant so appear and answer, the plaintifff will take judg
ment for the sum claimed by him (stating it);
5. In other actions, a notice that unless defendant so
appear and answer, the plaintifff will apply to the court
for the relief demanded. If the plaintifff has appeared
by attorney, the name of the attorney must be indorsed
upon the summons. [In effect March 26th, 1880.]
Contents of summons—compare sec. 407, and note.
Intendments—as to Inferior courts, sec. 53»; 33 Cal. 322.
§ 845. The time specified in the summons for the ap
pearance of the defendant must be as follows :
1. If an order of arrest be indorsed upon the summons,
forthwith ;
2. In all other cases, the summons must contain a direc
tion that the defendant must appear and answer the
complaint within five days, if the summons be served in
the city and county, township, or city, in which the action
§ 846-9
is brought; within ten days, if served out of the township
or city, but in the county in which the action is brought,
and within twenty days, if served elsewhere. [In effect
March 26th, 1880.]
Time for appearance—generally, sec. 407; subd. 3, note: in Justices'
Courts, 8 Cal. 339; 23 Cal. 85; 34 Cal. 646.
§ 846. If the summons is returned without being
served upon any or all of the defendants, the justice,
upon the demand of the plaintifff, may issue an alias
summons in the same form as the original, except that
he may fix the time for the appearance of the defendant
at a period not to exceed ninety days from its date.
Alias summons—generally, compare, sec. 408.
§ 847. The justice may, within a year from the date
of the filing of the complaint, issue as many alias sum
mons as may be demanded by the plaintifff.
Alias summons—see sec. 409.
§ 848. The summons cannot be served out of the county
of the justice before whom the action is brought, except
when the action is brought, upon a joint contract or obli
gation of two or more persons, who reside in different
counties, and the summons has been served upon the de
fendant, resident of the county, in which case the .sum
mons may be served upon the other defendant out of the
county; and except, also, when an action is brought
against a party who has contracted to perform an obliga
tion at a particular place, and resides in a different
county, in which case summons may be served in the
county where he resides; and except, also, where an
action is brought for injury to person or property, and
the defendant resides in a different county, in which case
summons may be served in the county where the defend
ant resides. [Approved April 3rd, 1876.]
Process of Justices' Courts—extent of, sees. 94, 106: constitution
ality of provisions, 14 Cal. 158.
§ 849. The summons may be served by a sheriff or con
stable of any of the counties of this State: provided, that
when a summons, issued by a justice of the peace, is to
be served out of the county in which it was issued, the
summons shall have attached to it a certificate under seal
by the county clerk of sujh county, to the effect that the
person issuing the same/was an acting justice of the peace
at the date of the summons; or the summons may be
served by any male resident, over the age of twenty-one
years, not a party to the suit, within the county where the
action is brought, and must be served and returned as
provided in Title V, Part II, of this Code, (sees. 405—116) or
it may be served by publication, and sees. 413 and 412, so
far as they relate to the publication of summons, are made
applicable to Justices' Courts; the word "justice" being
substituted for the word " judge," whenever the latter
word occurs. . [In effect May 27th, 1874.]
Service of summons—generally : Sheriff and deputies—tor Justices'
Courts in cities and counties, sec. 87: Constable—see Political Code,
sees. 4314, 4315; 4 CaL 188.
§ 850. When all the parties served with process shall
have appeared, or some of them have appeared, and the
remaining defendants have made default, the justice must
fix a day for the trial of said cause, and notify the plaint
iff and the defendants who have appeared, thereof. The
parties are entitled to one hour in which to appear after
the time fixed in the said notice, but are not bound to re
main longer than that time, unless both parties have
appeared, and the justice, being present, is engaged iu the
trial of another cause. [Approved April 3rd, 1876.]
Time of trial—sec. 873 et seq.
§ 851. Pleadings in Justices' Courts—
1. Are not required to be in any particular form, but
must be such as to enable a person of common under
standing to know what is intended ;
2.
3. May,
Must not
except
be verified,
the complaint,
unless otherwise
be oral orprovided
in writing;
in this
title ;
4. If in writing, must be filed with the justice;
5. If oral, an entry of their substance must be made in
the docket.
Subdivision 3. Verified answer—sec. 112, subd. 2, sec. 838.
Liberal construction of pleadings—in Justices' Courts, 4 CaL 120; 6
CaL 63; 13 Cal. 598; 16 Cal. 372; 20 Cal. 282.
§ 852. The pleadings are—
1. The complaint by the plaintifff;
2. The demurrer to the complaint;
3.
4. The demurrer
answer bytothe
thedefendant;
answer.
List of pleadings—generally, sec. 422.
§ 853. The complaint in Justices' Courts is a concise
statement, in writing, of the facts constituting the plaint
iffs cause of action; or a copy of the account, note, bill,
bond, or instrument upon which the action is based.
Oomplaint—generally, sec 426, and notes.
§ 854. The defendant may, at any time before answer
ing, demur to the complaint.
Demurrer—generally, sec. 430, and notes.
§ 855. The answer may contain a denial of any or all
of the material facts stated in the complaint, which the
defendant believes to be untrue, and also a statement, in
a plain and direct manner, of any other facts constituting
a defense or counterclaim, upon which an action might
be DfoSfftt by the defendant against the plaintifff in a
Justices' Court.
Answer—In Justices' Courts, 17 Cal. 80; 20 Cal. 48; 23 Cal. 16; 30 Cal.
545; objection to jurisdiction by, 6 Cal. 447 : as waiver, 8 Cal. 339; gen
erally, sec. 437 and notes.
Oounter-claim—above $300, beyond jurisdiction, 23 Cal. 61.
§ 856. If the defendant omit to set up a counterclaim
in the cases mentioned in the last section, neither he nor
his assignee can afterward maintain an action against the
plaintifff therefore.
Oounter-claim waived—generally, sec. 439, and note.
§ 857. When the answer contains new matter in avoid
ance, or constituting a defense or a counterclaim, the
plaintifff may, at any time before the trial, demur to the
same for insufficiency, stating therein the grounds of such
demurrer.
Demurrer to answer—generally, sec. 443.
§ 858. The proceedings on demurrer are as follows :
1. If the demurrer to the complaint is sustained, the
plaintifff may, within such time, not exceeding two days,
as the court allows, amend his complaint;
2. If the demurrer to a complaint is overruled, the de
fendant may answer forthwith ;
3. If the demurrer to an answer is sustained, the de
fendant may amend his answer within such time, not ex
ceeding two days, as the court may allow;
4. If the demurrer to an answer is overruled, the action
must proceed as if no demurrer had been interposed.
Proceedings on demurrer—compare sees. 472, 636.
§ 859. Either party may, at any time before the conclu
sion of the trial, amend any pleading, but if the amend
ment is made after the issue, and it appears to the sat
isfaction of the court, by oath, that an adjournment is
necessary to the adverse party in consequence of such
amendment, an adjournment must be granted. * The court
may also, in its discretion, when an adjournment will by
the amendment be rendered necessary, require, as a con
dition to the allowance of such amendment, made after
issue joined, the payment of costs to the adverse party,
to be fixed by tho court, not exceeding twenty dollars.
The court may also, on such terms as may be just, and
on payment of costs, relieve a party from a judgment by
default taken against him by his mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect, but the application for such
relief must be made within ten days after the entry of the
judgment and upon an affidavit showing good cause there
for.
Amendment—liberal, of Justices' Court pleadings, 10 Cal. 342; 11
Cal. 280: generally, sec. 473 and notes: adjournment for, sec. 874,
subd. 2.
§ 860. When a pleading is amended, the adverse party
may answer or demur to it within such time, not exceed
ing two days, as the court may allow.
Time to plead—compare sec. 432.
§ 861. An order to arrest the defendant may be in
dorsed on a summons issued by the justice, and the de
fendant may be arrested thereon by the sheriff or consta
ble, at the time of serving the summons, and brought
before the justice, and there detained until duly dis
charged, in the following cases :
1. In' an action for the recovery of money or damages,
on a cause of action arising upon contract, express or im
plied, when the defendant is about to depart from the
State, with intent to defraud his creditors;
2. In an action for a fine or penalty, or for money or
property embezzled or fraudulently misapplied, or con
verted to his own use by one who received it in a fiduciary
capacity;
3. "When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in
contracting the debt or incurring the obligation for which
the action is brought;
4. When the defendant has removed, concealed, or disSosed of his property, or is about to do so, with intent to
efraud his creditors.
But no female can be arrested in any action.
Arrest and bail—generally, sec. 478 et aeq.
Process of Justices' Courts—extent of, see sec. 848n.
§ 862. Before an order for an arrest can be made, the
party applying must prove to the satisfaction of the jus
tice, by the affidavit of himself or some other person, the
facts upon which the application is founded. The plaint
iff must also execute and deliver to the justice a written
undertaking in the sum of three hundred dollars, with
sufficient sureties, to the effect that the plaintifff will pay
all costs that may be adjudged to the defendant, aud all
damages which he may sustain by reason of the arrest,
if the same be wrongful, or without sufficient cause, not
exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking. [In effect
July
Affidavit
1st, 1874.]
and undertaking for arrest—compare sees. 481, 482.
§ 863. The defendant, immediately upon being ar
rested, must be taken to the office of the justice who
made the order, and if he is absent or unable to try the
action, or if it appears to him by the affidavit of defend
ant, that he is a material witness in the action, the officer
must immediately take the defendant before another jus
tice of the township or city, if there is another, and if
not, then before the justice of an adjoining township, who
must take jurisdiction of the action, and proceed thereon,
as if the summons had been issued and the order of ar
rest made by him.
§ 864. The officer making the arrest must immediately
give notice thereof to the plaintifff, or his attorney or
agent, and indorse on the summons, and subscribe a cer
tificate, stating the time of serving the same, the time of
the arrest, and of his giving notice to the plaintifff.
§ 865. The officer making the arrest must keep the
defendant in custody until he is discharged by order of
the justice.
§ 866. A writ to attach the property of the defendant
must be issued by the justice at the time of, or after issu
ing summons and before answer, on receiving an affidavit
by or on behalf of the plaintifff, showing the same facts as
are required to be shown by the affidavit specified in sec
tion five hundred and thirty-eight of this Code.
Attachment—generally, sec. 537 et seq.
After issuing summons—23 Cal. 89.
§ 867. Before issuing the writ, the justice must require
a written undertaking on the part or the plaintifff, with
two or more sufficient sureties, in a sum not less than fifty,
nor more than three hundred dollars, to the effect that if
the defendant recover judgment, the plaintifff will pay all
costs that may be awarded to the defendant, and all dam
ages which he may sustain by reason of the attachment,
not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking.
Undertaking on attachment—generally, sec. 539 and notes.
§ 868. The writ may be directed to the sheriff or any
constable of the county, or the sheriff of any other county,
and must require him to attach and safely keep all the
property of the defendant within his county, not exempt
from execution, or so much thereof as may be sufficieutto
satisfy the plaintifff's demand, the amount of which must
be stated in conformity with the complaint, unless the
defendant give him security, by the undertaking of two
sufficient sureties, in an amount sufficient to satisfy such
demand, besides costs; in which case, to take such under
taking.
Contents of writ—compare sec. 540.
§ 869. The sections of this Code from section five
hundred and forty-one to section five hundred and fiftynine, both inclusive, are applicable to attachments issued
in Justices' Courts, the word "constable" being substi
tuted for the word ' ' sheriff,' ' whenever the writ is directed
to a constable, and the word ' ' justice " being substituted
for the word "judge."
ARTICLE HI.
Claim and Delivery op«Personal Property.
§ 870. How claim and delivery enforced.
§ 870. In an action to recover possession of personal
property, the plaintifff may, at the time of issuing sum
mons, or at any time thereafter before answer, claim the
delivery of such property to him; and the sections of this
Code, from section five hundred and ten to section five
hundred and twenty-one, both inclusive, are applicable
to such claim when made in Justices' Courts, the powers
therein given and duties imposed on sheriffs being ex
tended to constables, and the word " justice " substituted
for " judge."
Claim and delivery—generally, sec. 509 et seq.
§ 871. If the defendant fail to appear, and to answer
or demur within the time specified in the summons, then,
upon proof of service of summons, the following proceed
ings must he had :
1. If the action is based upon a contract, and is for the
recovery of money, or damages only, the court must ren
der judgment in favor of plaintifff for the sum specified in
the summons ;
2. In all other actions the court must hear the evidence
offered by the plaintifff, and must render judgment in his
favor for such sum (not exceeding the amount stated in
the summons) as appears by such evidence to be just. [In
effect April 16th, 1880.]
Default judgment—generally, sec. 585.
§ 872. In the following cases the same proceedings
must be had, and judgment must be rendered in like man
ner, as if the defendant had failed to appear and answer
or demur:
. 1. If the complaint has been amended, and the defend
ant fails to answer it as amended, within the time allowed
by the court;
2. If the demurrer to the complaint is overruled, and the
defendant fails to answer at once ;
3. If the demurrer to the answer is sustained, and the
defendant fails to amend the answer within the time al
lowed by the court.
Compare—sec. 858 and notes.
§ 873. Unless postponed as provided in this chapter, or
unless transferred to another court, the trial of the action
must commence at the expiration of one hour from the
time specified in the notice mentioned in section 850, and
the trial must be continued without adjournment for more
than twenty-four hours at any one time, until all the
issues therein are disposed of. [Approved April 3rd, 1876.]
§ 874. The court may, of its own motion, postpone the
trial :
1. For not exceeding one day, if, at the time fixed by
law or by an order of the court for the trial, the court is
engaged in the trial of another action ;
2. For not exceeding two days, if, by_ an amendment of
the pleadings, or the allowance of time to make such
amendment or to plead, a postponement is rendered nec
essary
; not exceeding three days, if the trial is upon is- •
3. For
sues of fact, and a jury has been demanded.
Subdivision 2. Amendment of pleadings, etc.—see sees. 858, 859.
§ 875. The court may, by consent of the parties, given
in writing or in open court, postpone the trial to a time
agreed upon by the parties.
§ 876. The trial may be postponed upon the applica
tion of either party, for a period not exceeding four
months:
1. The party making the application must prove, by his
own oath or otherwise, that he cannot, for want of mate
rial testimony, which he expects to procure, safely pro
ceed to trial, and must show in what respect the testimony
expected is material, and that he has U3ed due diligence
to procure it, and has been unable to do so ;
2. If the application is on the part of the plaintifff, and
the defendant is under arrest, a postponement for more
than three hours discharges the defendant from custody ;
but the action may proceed notwithstanding, and the de
fendant is subject to arrest on execution, in the same
manner as if he had not been discharged ;
3. If the application is on the part of a defendant under
arrest, before it can be granted he must execute an under
taking, with two or more sufficient sureties, to be ap
proved by, and in a sum to be fixed by, the justice, to the
effect that he will render himself amenable to the process
of the court during the pendency of the action, and to
such as may be issued to enforce the judgment therein;
or that the sureties will pay to the plaintifff the amount of
any judgment which he may recover in the action, not ex
ceeding the amount specified in the undertaking. On fil
ing the undertaking specified in this subdivision, the jus
tice must order the defendant to be discharged from cus
tody ;
4. The party making the application must, if required
by the adverse party, consent that the testimony of any
witness of such adverse party, who is in attendance, may
be then taken by deposition before the justice, and that
the testimony so taken may be read on the trial, with the
same effect, and subject to the same objections, as if the
witness was produced.
But the court may require the party making the appli
cation to state, upon affidavit, the evidence which he ex
pects to obtain; and if the adverse party thereupon admit
that such evidence would be given, and that it be consid
ered as actually given on the trial, or offered and over
ruled as improper, the trial must not be postponed.
Postponement—generally, sec. 595, and notes: costs of, sec. 1029.
Undertaking, sureties, etc—sees. 94ln, 1057.
Subdivisions 2 and 3. Arrest and bail—sec. 478 4 seq.
§ 877. No adjournment must, unless by consent, be
granted for a period longer than ten days, upon the appli
cation of either party, except upon condition that such
party file an undertaking, in an amount fixed by the jus
tice, with two sureties, to be approved by the justice, to
the effect that they will pay to the opposite party the
amount of any judgment which may be recovered against
the party applying, not exceeding the sum specified in the
undertaking.
Undertakings—see sec. 876n.
§ 878. Issues arise upon the pleadings when a fact or
conclusion of law is maintained by the one party, and is
controverted by the other. They are of two kinds:
1. Of law; and,
2. Of fact.
Same as sec. 588.
§ 879. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the
complaint or answer, or to some part thereof.
Same as sec. 589.
§ 880. An issue of fact arises—
1 . Upon a material allegation in the complaint contro
verted by the answer; and,
2. Upon new matter in the answer, except an issue of
law
Same
is joined
as sec. 59J1
thereon.
§ 881. An issue of law must be tried by the court.
Compare—sec. 591.
§ 882. An issue of fact must be tried by a jury, unless
a jury is waived, in which case it must be tried by the
court.
Compare—sec. 592.
§ 883. A jury may be waived—
1. By consent of parties, entered in the docket;
2. By a failure of either party to demand a jury before
the commencement of the trial of an issue of fact;
3. By the failure of either party to appear at the time
fixed for the trial of an issue of fact.
Waiver of jury—compare sec. 631, and notes.
§ 884. If either party fails to appear at the time fixed
for trial, the trial may proceed at the request of the ad
verse
Compare—sec.
party. 594.
§ 885. The challenges are either peremptory or for
cause. Each party is entitled to three peremptory chal
lenges. Either party may challenge for cause on any
grounds set forth in section six hundred and two. Chal
lenges for cause must be tried by the justice.
Challenges—compare sees. 601, 602.
§ 886. When the cause of action or counterclaim arises
upon an account or instrument for the payment of money
only, the court, at any time before the trial, may, by an
order under his hand, require the original to be exhibited
to the inspection of, and a copy to be furnished to, the ad
verse party, at such time as may be fixed in the order; or,
if such order is not obeyed, the account or instrument
cannot
Order for
be inspection—sec.
given in evidence.
1000.
§ 887. If the plaintifff annex to his complaint, or file
with the justice at the time of issuing the summons, the
original or a copy of the promissory note, bill of exchange,
or other written obligation for the payment of money,
upon which the action is brought, the defendant is deemed
to admit the genuineness of the signatures of the makers,
indorsers, or assignors thereof, unless he specifically de
nies the same in his answer, and verify the answer by his
oath.
Compare—sees. 447, 853.
Signature of bonds—byprinted fac simileri% Cal. 565.
§ 889. Judgments upon confession may be entered up
in any Justices' Court specified in the confession.
Confession of judgment—8 Cal. 76; sec. 1135: and generally, sees.
1133-1135: jurisdiction, sec. 112, subd. 6.
§ 890. Judgment that the action be dismissed, without
prejudice to a new action, may be entered with costs, in
the following cases :
1. When the plaintifff voluntarily dismisses the action
before it is finally submitted ;
2. When he fails to appear at the time specified in the
summons, or at the time to which the action has been
postponed, or within one hour thereafter;
3. When, after a demurrer to the complaint has been
sustained, the plaintifff fails to amend it within the time
allowed by the court ;
i. When it is objected at the trial, and appears by the
evidence, that the action is brought in the wrong county,
or township, or city; but if the objection is taken and
overruled, it is cause only of reversal on appeal, and does
not otherwise invalidate the judgment; if not taken at
the trial, it is waived.
Dismissal, etc.—compare sec. 581, and notes: effect of, 29 Cal. 312.
Subdivision 4. Action brought, where—sec. 832. Appears by the
evidence—18 Cal. 128. Waiver of objection—15 Cal. 296; and compare
sec. 434 and note.
§ 891. When a trial by jury has been had, judgment
must be entered by the justice, at once, in conformity
with the verdict.
Entry of judgment—Lynch v. Kelly, 41 Cal. 432: generally, sec. 664,
and note. Judgment—generally, note to sec. 664.
§ 892. When the trial is by the court, judgment must
be entered at the close of the trial.
See sec. 891».
§ 893. The judgment in Justices' Courts must be en
tered substantially in the form required by section six
hundred and sixty-seven of this Code. When the judg
ment is rendered in a case where the defendant is subject
to arrest and imprisonment thereon, the fact that the de
fendant is so subject, must be stated in the judgment.
[In
Execution
effect July
against
1st,the1874.]
person, extent of process—sec. 848m.
§ 894. When the amount found due to either party ex
ceeds the sum for which the justice is authorized to enter
judgment, such party may remit the excess, and judg
ment may be rendered for the residue.
Limit—three hundred dollars, sec. 112.
§ 895. If the defendant, at any time before the trial,
offer, in writing, to allow judgment to be taken against
him for a specified sum, the plaintifff may immediately
have judgment therefore, with the costs then accrued; but
if he do not accept such offer before the trial, and fail to
recove» in the action a sum in excess of the offer, he can
not recover costs, but costs must be adjudged against
him, and, if he recover, be deducted from his recovery.
The offer and failure to accept it cannot be given in evi
dence nor affect the recovery, otherwise than as to costs.
[Approved
Offer to compromise—compare,
March 2nd, 1878.]sec. 997.
§ 896. The justice must tax and include in the judg
ment the costs allowed by law to the prevailing party.
Costs—sec. 924: percentage In San Francisco, see Stats. 1866, p. 66.
§ 897. The justice, on the demand of a party in whose
favor judgment is rendered, must give him au abstract of
the judgment in substantially the following form (filling
blanks according to the facts):
State of California,
county, (or city and county).
, plaintifff, v. -, defendant. In Justices' Court, be
fore
, justice of the peace,
■ township (or city, or
city and county),
, 18— [inserting date of abstract].
Judgment entered for plaintifff, (or defendant) for $ ,
on the
day of
. I certify that the foregoing is a
correct abstract of a judgment rendered in saia acti< • .in
justice
my court—or
of the (as
peace,
the ascase
appears
may by
be) his
in docket
the court
nowofin my,
possession, as nis successor in office.
, Justice of
the Peace. [In effect March 26th, 1880.]
Abstract—52 Cal. 399: transcript, formerly, 27 Cal. 371 : In cities and
counties, sec. 92.
§ 898. The abstract may be filed in the office of the
county clerk of the county in which the judgment was
rendered, and the judgment docketed in the judgment
docket of the Superior Court thereof. The time of the
receipt of the abstract by the clerk must be noted by
him thereon, and entered in the docket. [In effect March
26th, 1880.]
Docketing—generally, sec. 671.
Recalling—49 Cal. 269.
§ 899. From the time of docketing in the county
clerk's office, execution may be issued thereon by the
county clerk to the sheriff of any county in the State,
other than the county in which the judgment was ren
dered, in the same manner and with like effect as if issued
on a judgment of the Superior Court. [In effect Marci26th, 1880.]
Execution—generally, sec. 681 et seq.
§ 900. A judgment rendered in a Justice's Cour
creates no lien upon any lands of the defendant, unles:
such an abstract is filed in the office of the recorder of thi
county in which the lands are situated. When so filed
and from the time of filing, the judgment becomes a liei
upon all the real property of the judgment debtor, not
exempt from execution, in such county, owned by him at
the time, or which he may afterward, and before the lien
expires, acquire. The lien continues for two years, un
less the judgment be previously satisfied. [In effect
April 16th, 1880.1
Wo lien—unless abstract filed and recorded, 52 Cal. 399.
Recording—sec. 674; 19 Cal. 145.
Lien, extent and duration of—compare, sec. 674.
§ 901. Execution for the enforcement of a judgment
of a Justice's Court may be issued by the justice who
entered the judgment, or his successor' in office, on the
application of the party entitled thereto, at any time
within five years from the entry of judgment.
Within five years—8 Cal. 512; 26 Cal. 156: generally, sec. 685: action
on judgment after, 16 Cal. 372.
Staying proceedings—on void judgment, 49 Cal 266.
Execution—sec. 684n: generally, sec. 681 et teq.
§ 902. The execution must be directed to the sheriff or
,to a constable of the county, and must be subscribed by
the justice and bear date the day of its delivery to the
officer. It must intelligibly refer to the judgment, by
itating the names of the parties, and the name of the
ijustice before whom, and of the county and the township
"ot city where, and the time when, it was rendered ; the
amount of judgment, if it be for money ; and, if less than
the whole is due, the true amount due thereon. It must
similar
directions
to the
sheriff
or
• contain,
constable,inaslike
arecases,
required
by the
provisions
of title
nine,
part two, of this Code, in an execution to the sheriff.
Compare—sec. 681 et teq.
Region of process—see sec. 848n; 17 Cal. 294.
§ 903. An execution may, at the request of the judg
ment creditor, be renewed before the expiration of the
time fixed for its return, by the word " renewed " written
thereon, with the date thereof, and subscribed by the jus
tice. Such renewal has the effect of an original issue,
and may be repeated as often as necessary. If an execu
tion is returned unsatisfied, another may be afterward
issued.
t904. The sheriff or constable to whom the execution
irected must execute the same in the same manner as
the sheriff is required by the provisions of title nine, part
two, of this Code, to proceed upon executions directed to
him ; and the constable, when the execution is directed to
him, is vested for that purpose with all the powers of the
sheriff.
Execute the writ—compare, sec. 691 et seq.: and generally, see sec.
688 et seq.
§ 905. The sections of this Code, from seven hundred
and fourteen to seven hundred and twenty-one, both in
clusive, are applicable to Justices' Courts, the word "con
stable " being substituted, to that end, for the word
'' sheriff," and the word "justice " for the word " judge."
Proceedings supplementary to execution—17 CaL 131; sees. 714-721.
§ 906. A justice may punish as for contempt, persons
guilty of the following acts, and no other:
1. Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior to
ward the justice while holding the court, tending to in
terrupt the due course of a trial or other judicial proceed
ing!
2. A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct, or violent
disturbance in the presence of the justice, or in the imme
diate vicinity of the court held by him, tending to inter
rupt the due course of a trial or other judicial proceed
ing;
3. Disobedience or resistance to the execution of a
lawful order or process, made or issued by him ;
4. Disobedience to a subpoena duly served, or refusing
to be sworn or to answer as a witness ;
5. Rescuing any person or property in the custody of an
officer by virtue of an order or process of the court held
by him.
Contempts—generally, sec. 1209 et seq.
Courts and judicial officers, powers of—sec. 128 and notes, sees.
177-179.
§ 907. When a contempt is committed in the imme
diate view and presence of the justice, it may be pun
ished summarily; to that end an order must be made
reciting the facts, as they occurred, and adjudging that
the person proceeded against is thereby guilty of con
tempt, and that he be punished as therein prescribed.
Compare—sec. 1211.
, § 908. When the contempt is not committed in the
immediate view and presence of the justice, a warrant of
arrest may be issued by such justice, on which the person
so guilty may be arrested and brought before the justice
immediately, when an opportunity to be heard in his deCode Civ. Pboc.—
fense, or excuse, must be given. The justice may, there
upon, discharge him, or may convict him of the offense.
Compare—sec. 1211 ; sec. 1212 et seg.
§ 909. A justice may punish for contempts by fine or
imprisonment, or both; such fine not to exceed in any
case one hundred dollars, and such imprisonment one day.
One day's imprisonment—but see sec. 1219; 47 tal. 131.
§ 910. The conviction, specifying particularly the of
fense and the judgment thereon, must be entered by the
justice in his docket.
Docket, what to contain.
Entries therein primary evidence of the facts.
An Index to the docket must be kept.
Dockets must be delivered by justice to his successor, or to
county clerk.
Proceedings when office becomes vacant, and before a succes
sor Is appointed.
§ 911. Every justice must keep a book, denominated
a docket," in winch he must enter:
1. The title of every action or proceeding;
2. The object of the action or proceeding; and if a sum
of money be claimed, the amount thereof;
3. The date of the summons, and the time of its return ;
and if an order to arrest the defendant be made, or
a writ of attachment be issued, a statement of the
fact;
4. The time when the parties, or either of them, appear,
or their non-appearance, if default be made; a minute of
the pleadings and motions ; if in writing, referring to them ;
if not in writing, a concise statement of the material
parts of the pleadings ;
5. Every adjournment, stating on whose application
and to what time ;
6. The demand for a trial by jury, when the same is
made, and by whom made, the order for the jury, and
the time appointed for the return of the jury and for the
trial;
7. The names of the jurors 'who appear and are sworn,
and the names of all witnesses sworn, and at whose re
quest ;
8. The verdict of the jury, and when received; if the
jury disagree and are discharged, the fact of such dis
agreement and discharge ;
9. The judgment of the court, specifying the costs in
cluded, and the time when rendered;
10. The issuing of the execution, when issued and to
whom ; the renewals thereof, if any, and when made, and
a statement of any money paid to the justice, when and
by whom;
11. The receipt of a notice of appeal, if any be given, dockets 
and of the appeal bond, if any be filed. [In effect July
1st, 1874.]
Docket in cities and counties—sec. 93.
Residence of defendant—see sec. 832n.
Entries in docket—subd. 3. Return of summons, 10 CaL 93: 15 CaL
296, subd. 9: Judgment, 41 Cal. 232.
§ 912. The several particulars of the last section speci
fied must be entered under the title of the action to which
they relate, and (unless otherwise in this title provided)
at the time when they occur. Such entries in a justice's
docket, or a transcript thereof, certified by the justice, or
his successor in office, are prima facie evidence of the
facts so stated. [In effect March 26th, 1880.]
Prima facie evidence—sec. 1833 : justices' docket as, 32 CaL 49: ad
missibility of parol evidence, 34 Cal. 321.
§ 913. A justice must keep an alphabetical index to his
docket, in which must be entered the names of the parties
to each judgment, with a reference to the page of entry.
The names of the plaintifffs must be entered in the index,
in the alphabetical order of the firstr letter of the familyname.
§ 914. EveryJustice of the peace, upon the expiration
of his term of office, must deposit with his successor his
official dockets and all papers filed in his office, as well his
own as those of his predecessors, or any other which may
be in his custody to be kept as public records.
§ 915. If the office of a justice become vacant by his
death or removal from the township or city, or otherwise,
before his successor is elected and qualified, the docket
and papers in possession of such justice must be deposited
in the office of some other justice in the township, to be
by him delivered to the successor of such justice. If
there is no other justice in the township, then the docket
and papers of such justice must be deposited in the office
of the county clerk of the county, to be by him delivered
to the successor in office of the justice.
§ 916. Any justice with whom the docket of his prede
cessor or of another justice is deposited, has and may ex
ercise over all actions and proceedings entered in such
docket, the same jurisdiction as if originally commenced
before him. In case of the creation of a new county, or
the change of the boundary between two counties, any
justice into whose hands the docket of a justice formerly
acting as such within the same territory may come, is,
dockets.
for the purposes of this section, considered the successor
of such former justice.
§ 917. The justice elected to fill a vacancy is the suc
cessor of the justice whose office became vacant before
the expiration of a full term. "When a full term expires,
the same or another person elected to take office in the
same township or city, from that time is the successor.
§ 918. "When two or more justices are equally entitled,
under the last section, to be deemed the successors in
office of the justice, a judge of the Superior Court must,
by a certificate subscribed by him and filed in the office
of the county clerk, designate which justice is the suc
cessor of a justice going out of office, or whose office has
become vacant. [In effect March 26th, 1880.]
§ 919. Justices of the peace may issue subpoenas in
any action or proceeding in the courts held by them, and
final process on any judgment recovered therein, to any
part of the county.
Final process—to any part of the county, sees. 94, 106.
§ 920. The summons, execution, and every other pa
per made or issued by a justice, except a subpoena, must
be issued without a blank left to be filled by another, oth
erwise it is void.
§ 921. Justices of the peace must receive from the
sheriff or constables of their county, all monies collected
on any process or order issued from their courts respect
ively, and must pay the same, and all monies paid to
them in their official capacity, over to the parties entitled
or authorized to receive them, without delay. [In effect
March 26th, 1880.]
§ 922. In case of the sickness or other disability, or
necessary absence of a justice, on a return of a sum
mons, or at the time appointed for a trial, another justice
of the same township or city may, at his request, attend
in his behalf, and thereupon is vested with the power, for
the time being, of the justice before whom the summons
was returnable. In that case, the proper entry of the
proceedings before the attending justice, subscribed by
him, must be made in the docket of the justice before
whom the summons was returnable. If the case is ad
journed, the justice before whom the summons was return
able may resume jurisdiction.
§ 923. Justices may, in all cases, require a deposit of
money or an undertaking, as security for costs of court,
before issuing a summons.
Prepayment of fees—sec. 91.
S 924. The prevailing .party in Justices' Courts is en
titled to costs of the action, and also of any proceedings
taken by him in aid of an execution, issued upon any
judgment recovered therein. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Costs—see sec. 896.
§ 925. Justices's Courts being courts of peculiar and
limited jurisdiction, only those provisions of this Code
which are, in their nature, applicable to the organization,
powers, and course of proceedings in Justices Courts, or
which have been made applicable by special provisions in
this,title, are applicable to Justices' Courts and the pro
ceedings therein.
Peculiar and limited jurisdiction—sees. 112-114 and notes.
Provisions applicable—47 Cal. 131.
§ 926. In all civil cases arising in Justices' Courts,
wherein an undertaking is required as prescribed in this
Code, the plaintifff or defendant may deposit with said
justice a sum of money in United States gold coin equal
to the amount required by the said undertaking, which
said sum of money shall be taken as security in place of
said undertaking. [Approved February 25th, 1878.]
§ 929. Civil actions in Police Courts are commenced by
filing a complaint, setting forth the violation of the ordi
nance complained of, with such particulars of time, place,
and manner of violation as to enable the defendant to
understand distinctly the character of the violation com
plained of, and to answer the complaint. The ordinance
may be referred to by its title. The complaint must be
verified by the oath of the party complaining, or of his
attorney or agent.
§ 930. Immediately after filing the complaint, a sum
mons must be issued, directed to the defendant, and re
turnable either immediately or at any time designated
therein, not exceeding four days from the date of its
issuing.
§ 931. On the return of the summons the defendant
may answer the complaint. The answer may be oral or
in writing, and immediately thereafter the case must be
tried, unless, for good cause shown, an adjournment is
granted.
§ 932. In all actions for violation of an ordinance,
where the fine, forfeiture, or penalty imposed by the or
dinance is less than fifty dollars, the trial must be by the
court. In actions where the fine, forfeiture, or penalty im
posed by the ordinance is over fifty dollars, the defendant
is entitled to a trial by jury.
§ 933. All proceedings in civil actions in Police Courts
must, except as in this title otherwise provided, be con
ducted in the same manner as civil actions in Justices'
Courts. ,
Police court proceedings—no Jurisdiction where legality of license
questioned, 51 Cal. 499: civil proceedings in Justices' Courts, sees. 832
§ 936. A judgment or order in a civil action, except
when expressly made final by this Code, may be reviewed
as prescribed in this title, and not otherwise.
Judgments and orders—appeal from, sec. 939 and notes.
Not otherwise—8 Cal. 297 ; 24 Cal. 334; McLaughlin v. Dougherty,
April 7th, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 330.
§ 937. An order made out of court, without notice to
the adverse party, may be vacated or modified without
notice, by the judge who made it; or may be vacated or
modified on notice, in the manner in which other motions
are made.
Vacating or modifying order—made without notice, 9 Cal. 19; 12
Cal. 440; 46 Cal. 31 : orders generally, sec. 1003 et teq.
§ 938. Any party aggrieved may appeal in the cases
prescribed in this title. The party appealing is known as
the appellant, and the adverse party as the respondent.
§ 939. An appeal may be taken:
1. From a final judgment in an action or special pro
ceeding commenced in the court in which the same is ren
dered, within one year after the entry of judgment; but
an exception to the decision or verdict, on the ground that
it is not supported by the evidence, cannot be reviewed on
an appeal from the judgment, unless the appeal is taken
within sixty days after the rendition of the judgment;
2. From a judgment rendered on an appeal from an in
ferior court, within ninety days after the entry of such
judgment;
3. From an order granting or refusing a new trial; from
an order granting or dissolving an injunction ; from an
order refusing to grant or dissolve an injunction ; from an
order dissolving or refusing to dissolve an attachment;
from an order granting or refusing to grant a change or
the place of trial; from any special order made after final
judgment, and from an interlocutory judgment in actions
for partition of real property, and from an order confirm
ing, changing, modifying or setting aside the report in
whole or in part, of the referees in actions for partition of
real property, in the cases mentioned in the provisions in
section seven hundred and sixty three of this Code, with
in sixty days after the order or interlocutory judgment is
made and entered in the minutes of the court or filed with
the clerk. [In effect April 12th, 1880.]
Appeals—to Supreme Court, sees. 963-966; to Superior Court, sees.
974-980.
Exceptions—need of, sees. 646, 956, and notes.
BUI
Subdivision
of review—12
1. Pinal
Cal. 99;judgment—Broad,
34 Cal. 76; 41 Cal. 320.
too, 36 Cal. 158; 41 Cal.
133: consent, by, 42 Cal. 518: constitutes, what, see Definition : death of
party after verdict, 50 Cal. 40 : default, by, 1 Cal. 94, 416 ; 6 Cal. 83; 9 Cal.
616; over,
16 Cal.see65:1022Cal.
Cal.444;
463,24635;Cal.34210;
Cal. 34167Cal.
: and
appellate
supervis
ion
167;as 39toCal.
502: definition,

1880, 5see
Pac.sec.C.472n
L. J.: dismissal
128: demurrer
Cal. 2186;Cal.14
Cal. 28 : March
and as to
waiver,
of, 18 on,
Cal.3625;
151;
50
Cal.
444:
intervener,
against,
38
Cal.
610:
irregular,
correction
§ 940. An appeal is taken by filing with the clerk of
trie court in which the judgment or order appealed from
is entered, a notice stating the appeal from the same, or
some specific part thereof, and serving a similar notice on
the adverse party or his attorney. The order of service
is immaterial, but the appeal is ineffectual for any pur
pose unless within five days after service of the notice of
appeal, an undertaking be filed, or a deposit of money be
made with the clerk, as hereinafter provided, or the un
dertaking be waived by the adverse party in writing. [In
effect July 1st, 1880.]
Appeal, steps of—before Code, 8 Cal. 133, 340; 9 Cal. 641 ; 10 Cal. 31.
Notice of appeal—Requisites, 24 Cal. 364 ; 2!) Cal. 224 ; 32 Cal. 160; 35
Cal. 289 ; 40 Cal. 154. To whom given, 38 Cal. 637. Filing aiid'serving
order immaterial, but both same day, since Code, 46 Cal. 650; 48 Cal. 567 :
previously
otherwise,

; 35
Cal. 184; 39 Cal. 150: and generally, see sec. 1010 etseq.: formerly244none
In probate appeals, 31 Cal. 685; but see sec. 1714. Oiven too late, eSec!
on appeal, 22 Cal. 650; 50 Cal. 94. Stipulation as tofiling, 29 Cal. 460.
Undertaking on appeal—Requirements of, sec. 941, and notes. Un
necessary, when, sees. 965, 1058. Withinfive days, 15 Cal. 383, 386; 42 Cal.
277 : and not before notice of appeal given, 10 Cal. 480; 16 Cal. 
time limited
for
appeal,
bo dismissed,
52 Cal. 325.
Exception to sureties, time for, sec. 648 and notes.
§ 941. The undertaking on appeal must be in writing,
and must be executed on the part of the appellant, by at
least two sureties, to the effect that the appellant will pay
all damages and costs which may be awarded against
him on the appeal, or on a dismissal thereof, not exceed
ing three hundred dollars; or that sum must be deposited
with the clerk with whom the judgment or order was
entered, to abide the event of the appeal.
Undertaking on appeal—Filing, time for, sec. 940 and note; and see
sec.

948 and note. Suit by assignee, 6 Cal. 87.
Deposit with clerk—sec. 948, also sees. 573, 2104.
Undertakings generally—Liability, attachment, 13 Cal. 553; 44 Cal.
168:
case,29 S.Cal.F. 98:
t>. Randall,
March
5 Pac.
L.
J. 194:criminal
executor,
Injunction,
3 Cal.23rd,
218; 1880,
4 Cal.

•urates, justification
18 Cal.suing,
121: liability
of. 7Civil
17 Cal. 508; 26 Cal. 535: qualification, sec. 1058: subrogation, sec. 709.
CODE CIV. PKOC—»».
§ 942. I£ the appeal be from a judgment or order
directing the payment of money, it does not stay the exe
cution of the judgment or order unless a written under
taking be executed on the part of the appellant, by two or
more sureties, to the effect that they are bound in double
the amount named in the judgment or order; that if the
judgment or order appealed from, or any part thereof, be
affirmed, or the appeal be dismissed, the appellant will
pay the amount directed to be paid by the judgment or
order, or the part of such amount as to which the judg
ment or order is affirmed, if affirmed only in part, and. all
damages and costs which may be awarded against the
appellant upon the appeal, and that if the appellant does
not make such payment within thirty days after the filing
of the remittitur from the Supreme Court in the court
from which the appeal is taken, judgment may be entered
on motion of the respondent in his favor against the sure
ties, for such amount, together with the interest that may
be due thereon, and the damages and costs which may be
awarded against the appellant upon the appeal. If the
judgment or order appealed from be for a greater amount
than two thousand dollars, and the sureties do not state
in their affidavits of justification accompanying the under
taking, that they are each worth the sum specified in the
undertaking, the stipulation may be that the judgment to
be entered against the sureties shall be for such amounts
ouly as in their affidavits they may state that they are
severally worth, and judgment may be entered against the
sureties by tho court from which the appeal is taken, pur
suant to the stipulations herein designated. When the
judgment or order appealed from is made payable in a
specified kind of money or currency, the judgment en
tered against the sureties upon the undertaking must be
made payable in the same kind of money or currency.
[In effect July 1st, 1880.]
Undertaking to stay execution—10 CaL 335; 13 Cal. MS; IS Cal. 374;
25Cal. 337; 40 Cal. 278; 49 Cal. 72,351; Hill v. Flnnlgan, April 6th, 1880,
5 Pac. C. i. J. 301.
Judgment affirmed—or appeal dismissed, 6 Cal. 175; 15 Cal. 327; 29
Cal. 138.
Specified kind of money—sec. 667 and notes.
§ 943. If the judgment or order appealed from, direct
the assignment or delivery of documents or personal
property, the execution of the judgment or order cannot
be stayed by appeal, unless the things required to be
assigned or delivered be placed in the custody of such
officer or receiver as the court may appoint, or unless an
undertaking be entered into on the part of the appellant,
with at least two sureties, and in such amount as the
court, or a judge thereof, may direct, to the effect that
the appellant will obey the Order of the appellate court,
upon the appeal. [In effect March 9th, 1880.]
Receiver—sec. 564.
Undertaking—sec. 941.
§ 944. If the judgment or order appealed: from direct
the execution of a conveyance or other instrument, the
execution of the judgment or order cannot be stayed by
the appeal until the instrument is executed and deposited
with the clerk with whom the judgment or order is en
tered, to abide the judgment of the appellate court.
§ 945. If the judgment or order appealed from direct
the sale or delivery of possession of real property, the ex
ecution of the same cannot be stayed, unless a written
undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant,
with two or more sureties, to the effect that during the
possession of such property by the appellant, he will not
commit, or suffer to be committed, any waste thereon,
and that if the judgment be affirmed, or the appeal dis
missed, he will pay the value of the use and occupation
of the property from the time of the appeal until the de
livery of possession thereof, pursuant to the judgment or
order, not exceeding the sum to be rixed by the judge of
the court by which the judgment was rendered or order
made, and which must be specified in the undertaking.
When the judgment is for the sale of mortgaged premises,
anil the payment of a deficiency arising upon the sale, the
undertaking must also provide for the payment of such
deficiency.
Realty, sale or delivery of possession of—21 Cal. 233; England v.
Lewis, 25 Cal. 537; 29 Cal. 11; 38 Cal. 600: undertaking, sec. 941.
Waste—sees. 745, 746.
§ 946. Whenever an appeal is perfected, as provided in
the preceding sections of this chapter, it stays all further
proceedings in the court below upon the judgment or or
der appealed from, or upon the matters embraced therein,
and releases from levjr property which has been levied
upon under execution issued upon such judgment ; but
the court below may proceed upon any other matter em
braced in the action and not affected by the order ap
pealed from. And the court below may, in its discre
tion, dispense with or limit the security required by this
chapter, when the appellant is an executor, administra
tor, trustee, or other person acting in another's right.
An appeal does not continue in force in an attachment,
unless an undertaking be executed and filed on the part
of the appellant, by at least two sureties, in double the
amount of the debt claimed by him, that the appellant
will pay all costs and damages which the respondent, may
sustain by reason of the attachment, in case the order of
the court below be sustained ; and unless, within five days
after the entry of the order appealed from, such appeal
be perfected. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Stay of proceedings—sec. 949k; 7 Cal. 132; 47 Cal. 584; 52 Cat 75.
Levy, release of—not before Code, 43 Cal. 72.
Security of executor, etc.—see sec. 966.
§ 947. The undertakings prescribed by sections nine
hundred and forty-one, nine hundred and forty-two, nine
hundred and forty-three, and nine hundred and forty-five,
may be in one instrument or several, at the option of the
appellant.
Undertakings—sec. 941, notes.
§ 948. The adverse party may except to the sufficiency
of the sureties to any of the undertakings mentioned in
sections nine hundred and forty-one, nine hundred and
forty-two, nine hundred and forty-three, and nine Imndred and forty-five, at any time within thirty days after
the filing of such undertaking ; and unless they or other
sureties, within twenty days after the appellant has been
served with notice of such exception, justify before a
judge of the court below, or county clerk, upon five days'
notice to the respondent of the time and place of justifi
cation, execution of the judgment, order, or decree ap
pealed from is no longer stayed; and in all cases where
an undertaking is required on appeal by the provisions of
this title, a deposit in the court below of the amount of
the judgment appealed from, and three hundred dollars
in addition, shall be equivalent to filing the undertaking,
and in all cases the undertaking or deposit may be waived
by the written consent of the respondent. [In effect
March 9th, 1880.]
sureties—see
495; 1 Cal.
199;183,480;
32 Cal. 373;
of,Justification
10 Cal. 41U; 15ofCal.
301: effect ofsec.failure,
10 Cal.
17 Cal.notice
121;
52 Cal. 447; Hill v. Finnigan, March 13th, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 122; Ibid.
April 0th, 1880. 5 Pac. C. L. J . 301 : before county judge, prior to amdt.
18s0, 18 Cal. 6S8; 21 Cal. 512: waiver, 32 Cal. 49.
§ 949. In cases not provided for in sections nine hundred
and forty-two, nine hundred and forty-three, nine hundred
and forty-four, and nine hundred and forty-five, the per
fecting of an appeal by giving the undertaking or making
the deposit mentioned in section nine hundred and forty
one, stays proceedings in the court below upon the judg
ment or order appealed from, except where it directs the
sale of perishable property ; in which case the court below
may order the property to be sold and the proceeds there
of to be deposited, to abide the judgment of the appellate
court. And except also, where it adjudges the defendant
guilty of usurping, or intruding into, or unlawfully hold
ing public office, civil or military, within this State. And
except also, where the order grants, or refuses to grant, a
change of place of trial of an action. [In effect February
loth, 1874.J
Stay of proceedings—7 Cal. 132; 19 Cal. 118; 24 Cal. 569; 25 Cal. 337;
52 Cal. 622.
§ 950. On an appeal from a final judgment, the appel
lant must furnish the court with a copy of the notice of
appeal, of the judgment roll, and of any bill of exceptions
or statement in the case, upon which the appellant relies.
Any statement used on motion for a new trial, or settled
after decision of such motion, when the motion is made
upon the minutes of the court, as provided in section six
hundred and sixty-one, or any bill of exceptions settled,
as provided in sections six hundred and forty-nine or six
hundred and fifty, or used on motion for a new trial, may
be used on appeal from a final judgment equally as upon
appeal from the order granting or refusing the new trial.
[In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Papers on appeal from judgment—53 Cal. 281 ; Weich v. Allen,
Feb. 26th, 1880: notice of appeal,8 Cal. 340: 10 Cal. 490: 29 Cal. 460; 35 Cal.
289: judgment roll, see. 670 and notes; 47 Cal. 604 ; 53 Cal. 251: excep
tions, sec. 956; 2 Cal. 54; 32 Cal. 91; 47 Cal. 640, 643; 50 Cal. 508, 524; 51
Cal. 110; 53 Cal. 602.
Transcript—generally, sec. 129n: 8Cal.340; 10 Cal. 491; 24Cal.267;26
Cal. 263 ; 27 Cal. 649; 28 Cal. 555 : 29 Cal. 461, 486; 31 Cal. 107,657 ; 34 Cal.28.
506; 35 Cal. 184; 36 Cal. 129,521, 580; 39 Cal. 93;. 43 Cal. 177,458.482 ; 47
Cal.
605; 48sees.
Cal.950-952
28; 49 and
Cal.notes,
340: authentication
of, sec. 953 and notes:
contents,
supra.
§ 951. On appeal from a judgment rendered on an ap
peal, or from an order, except an order granting or refus
ing a new trial, the appellant must furnish the court with
a copy of the notice of appeal, of the judgment or order
appealed from, and of papers used on the hearing in the
court below. [In effect July 1st, 1874.1
Papers on appeal from judgment—compare sec. 950n.
Record on appeal from orders—25 Cal. 584 ; 27 Cal. 685; 28 Cal. 649;
33 Cal. 534; 47 Cal. 167.
§ 952. On an appeal from an order granting or refus
ing a new trial, the appellant must furnish the court with
a copy of the notice of appeal, of the order appealed
from, aiifl of the papers designated in section six hundred
and sixty-one of this Code. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Papers on appeal—generally, see sees. 950, 951.
Order as to new trial—record on appeal from, 23 Cal. 540; 25 CaL
584; 28 Cal. 58; Z) Cal. B12; 45 Cal. 174; Thompson D.Patterson, April
23rd, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 388.
§ 953. The copies provided for in the last three sec
tions must be certified to be correct by the clerk or the
attorneys, and must be accompanied with a certificate of
the clerk or attorneys that an undertaking on appeal, in
due form, has been properly filed, or a stipulation of the
parties waiving an undertaking. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Certificate—42 Cal. 629; 43 Cal. 25, 54; 51 Cal. 420; Winder c. Hendrick,
March 3rd, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 07: undertaking filed, 8 Cal. 340; 28 Cal.
58; 52 Cal. 644.
Stipulation—48 Cal. 83: generally, 283ft.
Transcript—sec. 950n.
Review on appeal—sec. 53n : when certiorari proper mode, 3 CaL
424.
§ 954. If the appellant fails to furnish the requisite
papers, the appeal may be dismissed; but no appeal can
be dismissed for insufficiency of the undertaking thereon,
if a good and sufficient undertaking, approved by a jus
tice of the Supreme Court, be filed in the Supreme Court
before the hearing upon motion to dismiss the appeal.
Requisite papers not furnished—Dismissalfor, sec. 129n ; 2 Cal. 149,
150. 102; 5Cal. 155; 25 Cal. 584 ; 38 Cal. 572; 47 CaL 414: 50 Cal. 94; People
v. Center, March 1st, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 40; Spinettl v. Brignartlcllo.
April487th,
C. L.J.329:
motion,
38 Cal.
47 Cal.
60S;
Cal.1880,5Pac.
151: restoration
of appeal.
2 Cal.8 Cal.
102; 347
21 ;Cal.
512; 637;
25 Cal.
698.
Substituted undertaking, 21 Cal. 512; 23 Cal. 526; 32 Cal. 375; 52 Cal. 447.
§ 955. The dismissal of an appeal is in effect an affirm
ance of the judgment or order appealed from, unless the
dismissal is expressly made without prejudice to another
appeal.
Effect of dismissal—15 CaL 324; 16 Cal. 207 ; 40 Cal. 101, 278; Spinettl
c. Brlgnardello, April 7th, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 329.
Control over judgment on appeal—sec. 53n.
§ 956. Upon an appeal from a judgment, the court may
review the verdict or decision, and any intermediate or
der or decision excepted to, which involves the merits, or
necessarily affects the judgment, except a decision or or
der from which an appeal might have been taken. [Ap
proved April 3rd, 1870—in effect Juno 1st, 1876.]
Review on appeal—sec. 53n; Afiley v. 01msteadjM>ril 21st, 1880, 5
Pac. C. L. J. 310; Thompson v. Pakerson, April 23rd, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L.
J. 388; Freeman v. Campbell, May 20th, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 533.
Intermediate orders—tfon-appeala'tle, see under sec. 939n : embodyIn* In record, 28 Cal. 170,295; 41 Cal. 136; 42 Cal. 236; 43 CaL 180, 369.
Affectingjudgment, 24 Cal. 447.
Appealable order-not reviewed, 42 Cal. 387.
Certiorari—where no appeal, 53 Cal. 495.
§ 957. When the judgment or order is reversed or mod
ified, the appellate court may make complete restitution
of all property and *ights lost by the erroneous judgment
or order, so far as such restitution is consistent with
protection of a purchaser of property at a sale ordered
by the judgment, or had under process issued upon the
judgment, on the appeal from which the proceedings were
not stayed ; and for relief in such cases the appellant may
have his action against the respondent, enforcing the judg
ment for the proceeds of the sale of the property, after
deducting therefrom the expenses of the sale. When it
appears to the appellate court that the appeal was made
for delay, it may add to the costs such damages as may be
just.
Judgment
[In effect
reversed—sec.
July 1st,966,1874.]
also, sec. 53n.
Modified—sec. 53n ; Kern Valley Bank v. Chester, June 3rd, 1880, 5
Pac. C. L. J. 520.
Restitution-10 Cal. 335; 14 Cal. 667; 18 Cal. 275; 46 Cal. 275; 48 Cal. 639.
Costs on appeal—generally, sec. 1034; 33 Cal. 161: and for costs be
low, etc.; see sees. 1022-1039; where modification of judgment, sec.
1027, subd. 2 ; 1 Cal. 51 ; 13 Cal. 491 ; 18 Cal. 689; 49 Cal. 293.
Appeal for delay—damages, as penalty, 23 Cal. 649; 33 Cal. 161; 53
Cal. 187: LIvennore r. Hodgkins, May 26th, 1880, 5 Pac. C.L.J. 516:
nercentago awarded, 2 Cal. 149, 150, 158; 0 Cal. 94, 277; 10 Cal. 522, 523; 12
Cal. 449, 559; 14 Cal. 241; 41 Cal. 359, 661; 43 Cal. 497; 44 Cal. 131; 45 Cal.
393; 47 CaL618; 48 Cal. 131; Mix v. Boothe, Feb. 12th, 1880, 4 Pac. C. L.
J. 563.
§ 958. When judgment is rendered upon the appeal, it
must be certified by the clerk of the Supreme Court to the
clerk with whom the judgment roll is filed, or the order
appealed from is entered. In cases of appeal from the
judgment, the clerk with whom the roll is filed must at
tach the certificate to the judgment roll, and enter a min
ute of the judgment of the Supreme Court on the docket,against the original entry. In cases of appeal from an
order, the clerk must enter at length in the records of the
court the certificate received, and minute against the en
try of the order appealed from, a reference to the certifi
cate, with a brief statement that such order has been
affirmed, reversed, or modified by the Supreme Court on
appeal.
I
Judgment
Remittitur—amendment
rendered on appeal—sel.
after, 19 Cal.53n:
127: rehearing,
costs, 3 Cal.
sec.212:
129n.12 Cal.
467 ; 19 Cal. 127 : opinion, sec. 129n : power of court below. 3 Cal. 214; 32
§ 959. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to
appeals to Superior Courts. [In effect March 9th, 1880.]
Appeals to Superior Courts—sees. 974-980.
§ 963. An appeal may be taken to the Supreme Court,
from a Superior Court, in the following cases :
1. From a final judgment entered in an action or spe
cial proceeding commenced in a Superior Court, or
brought into a Superior Court from another Court;
2. From an order granting or refusing a new trial ; or
granting or dissolving an injunction; or refusing to grant
or dissolve an injunction; or dissolving or refusing to dis
solve an attachment ; or changing or refusing to change
the place of trial; from any special order made after final
judgment; and from such interlocutory judgment in ac
tions for partition as determines the rights and interests
of the respective parties and directs partition to be made ;
3. From a judgment or order granting, refusing, or re
voking letters testamentary, or of administration, or of
guardianship ;, or admitting or refusing to admit a will to
probate; or against or in favor of the validity of a will,
or revoking the probate thereof ; or against or in favor of
setting apart property, or making an allowance for a
widow or child; or against or in favor of directing the
partition, sale, or conveyance of real property; or set
tling an account of an executor, or administrator, or
guardian; or refusing, allowing, or directing the distribu
tion or partition of an estate, or any part thereof ; or the
payment of a debt, claim, legacy, or distributive share;
or confirming or refusing to confirm a report of an ap
praiser setting apart the homestead.
Subdivision 1. Appeal from final judgment—compare sec. 939,
subd. 1, and notes.
Subdivision 2. Appeals from orders—compare sec. 939, subd. 3,
and notes.
Subdivision 3. Appeals from probate decisions—generally, See
sees. 1714,1715; 34Cal. 662; special administration, granting no appeal,
sec. 1413: guardianship. 48 Cal. 83: refusing probate, 36 Cal.75: setting
apart
tate105:
of Burns,
28th, 1880, 405 Pac.
O. L.49J.Cal.
49:
settlinghomestead,
account, 36B Cal.
order ofFeb.
distribution,
Cal. 463;
WO : refusing payment of claim, 49 Cal. 152. Non-appealable orders(5 Cal. 257; 50 Cal. 293: 51 Cal. 563 ; 53 Cal. 631 : Estate of Montgomery,
May 27th, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 478.
§ 964. The foregoing section does not apply in cases
appealed from Justices', Police, or other inferior courts,
except cases of forcible entry and detainer, and cases in
volving the title or possession of real property, or the
legality of any tax, impost, assessment, toll, or municipal
line, or in which the demand, exclusive of interest, or the
value of the property in controversy, amounts to three
hundred dollars.
Appeals to Superior Court—sec. 974 et seq.
Forcible entry and detainer—concurrent jurisdiction of Justices'
Courts, sec. 113, subd. 1.
§ 965. When an executor, administrator, or guardian,
who has given an official bond, appeals from a judgment
or order of the Superior Court made in the proceedings
had upon the estate of which he is executor, administra
tor, or guardian, his official bond shall stand in the place
of an undertaking on appeal; and the sureties thereon
shall be liable as on such undertaking.
Undertaking—on appeal, and generally, sec. 941, notes.
Probate appeals—sec. 963, subd. 3 and notes.
§ 966. When the judgment or order appointing an ex
ecutor, or administrator, or guardian, is reversed on ap
peal, for error, and not for want of jurisdiction of the
Court, all lawful acts in administration upon the estate
performed by such executor, or administrator, or guar
dian, if he have qualified, are as valid as if such judgment
or order had been affirmed.
Appointment of executor, etc.—appeal from, sec. 963, subd. 3.
Restitution on reversal, etc.—sec. 957.
§ 974. Any party dissatisfied with a judgment ren
dered in a civil action in a Police or Justice's Court, may
appeal therefrom to the Superior Court of the county, at
any time within thirty days after the rendition of the
judgment. The appeal is taken hy filing a notice of ap
peal with the justice or judge, and serving a copy on the
adverse party. , The notice must state whether the appeal
is taken from the whole or a part of the judgment, and if
from a part, what part, and whether the appeal is taken
on questions of law or fact, or both.
Notice of appeal—sufficiency, 5 Cal. 124; 23 Cal. 136: service on
adverse
see sec.16 CaL
1015;368:
6 Cal.
245; 7when
Cal. proper
245, andremedy,
compare50 Cal
sec.
940: proofparty,
of service,
appeal,
509.
§ 975. When a party appeals to the Superior Court on
questions of law alone, he must, within ten days from the
rendition of judgment, prepare a statement of the case
and file the same with the justice or judge. The state
ment must contain the grounds upon which the party in
tends to rely on the appeal, and so much of the evidence
as may t)e necessary to explain the grounds, and no more.
'Within ten days after he receives notice that the state
ment is filed, the adverse party, if dissatisfied with the
same, may file amendments. The proposed statement
and amendments must be settled by the justice or judge;
and if no amendment befiled, the original statement stands
as adopted. The statement thus adopted, or as settled
by the justice or judge, with a copy of the docket of the
justice or judge, and all motions filed with him by the
parties during the trial, and the notice of appeal, may be
used, on the hearing of the appeal before the Superior
Court.
Settlement of statement—on appeal, compare sec. 650 and notes.
§ 976. When a party appeals to the Superior Court 01
questions of fact, or on questions of both law and fact
no statement need be made, but the action must be triei
anew in the Superior Court. [In effect March 26th, 1880.
Tried anew—5 Cal. 53, 75; 10 Cal. 19; 11 Cal. 328: conductor tril
jec. 980.
§ 977. Upon receiving the notice of appeal, and on
payment of the fees of the justice or judge, and filing an
undertaking as required in the next section, and after
settlement or adoption of statement, if any, the justice
or judge must, within five days, transmit to the clerk of
the Superior Court, if the appeal be on questions of law
alone, a certified copy of his docket, the statement as
ing
mitted
filedor; as
or,settled,
if the appeal
the notice
be on
of appeal,
questions
andofthe
fact,
unde
or both
law and fact, a certified copy of his docket, the pleadings,
all notices, motions, and other papers filed in the cause,
the notice of appeal, and the undertaking filed; and the
justice or judge may be compelled by the Superior Court,
by an order entered upon motion, to transmit such pa
pers, and may be fined for neglect or refusal to transmit
the same. A certified copy of such order may be served
on the justice or judge by the party or his attorney. In
the Superior Court, either party may have the benefit of
all legal objections made in the Justice's or Police Court.
[In effect March 26th, 1880.]
Payment of foes—5 Cal. 89; 6 Cal. 287; 9 Cal. 571. Transmitting
record—9 Cal. 17.
§ 978. An appeal from a Justice's or Police Court is
not effectual for any purpose, unless an undertaking be
filed with two or more sureties in the sum of one hundred
dollars for the payment of the costs on the appeal;) or, if
a stay of proceedings be claimed, in a sum equal trrtwice
the amount of the judgment, including costs, when the
judgment is for the payment of money ; or twice the value
of property, including costs, when the judgment is for the
recovery of specific personal property, and must be con
ditioned, when the action is for the recovery of money,
that the appellant will pay the amount of the judgment
appealed from, and all costs, if the appeal be withdrawn
or dismissed, or the amount of any judgment and all
costs that may be recovered against him in the action in
the Superior Court. When the action is for the recovery
of or to enforce or foreclose a lien on specific personal
property, the undertaking must be conditioned that the
appellant will pay the judgment and costs appealed from,
and obey the order of the court made therein, if the ap
peal he withdrawn or dismissed, or any judgment and
costs that may be recovered against him in said action
in the Superior Court, and will obey any order made by
the court therein. When the judgment appealed from
directs the delivery of possession of real property, the
execution of the same cannot be stayed unless a written
undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant,
with two or more sureties, to the effect that during the
possession of such property by the*appellant, he will not
commit, or suffer to be committed, any waste thereon,
and that if the appeal be dismissed or withdrawn, or
the judgment affirmed, or judgment be recovered against
him. in the action in the Superior Court, he will pay the
value of the use and occupation of the property from the
time of the appeal until the delivery of possession there
of; or that he will pay any judgment and costs that may
be recovered against him in said action in the Superior
Court, not exceeding a sum to be fixed by the justice of
the court from which the appeal is taken, and which sum
must he specified in the undertaking. A deposit of the
amount of the judgment, including all costs appealed
from, or of the value of the property, including all costs
in actions for the recovery of specific personal property,
with the justice or judge, is equivalent to the filing of the
undertaking, and in such cases, the justice or judge must
transmit the money to the clerk of the Superior Court, to
he by him paid out on the order of the court. The adverse
party may except to the sufficiency of the sureties within
five days after the filing of the undertaking, and unless
they or other sureties justify before the justice or judge
within five days thereafter, upon notice to the adverse
party, to the amounts stated in their affidavits, the ap
peal must be regarded as if no such undertaking had been
given. [In effect March 26th, 1880.]
Undertaking on appeal—compare sec. 941 and notes; see 5 Cal. 71,
78; 7 Cal. 245; 8 Cal. 33; 9 Cal. 571.
Sureties, excepting to—47 CaL 604: justification, sec. 948.
§ 979. If an execution be issued on the filing of the
undertaking staying proceedings, the justice or judge
must, by order, direct the officer to stay all proceedings
on the same. Such officer must, upon payment of his
fees for services rendered on the execution, thereupon re
linquish all property levied upon, and deliver the same to
the judgment debtor, together with all monies' collected
from sales or otherwise. If his fees be not paid, the offi
cer may retain so much of the property or proceeds thereof
Cons Civ. Pkoc—30.
as may be necessary to pay the same. [In effect March
26th, 1880.]
Stay of proceedings—sec. 946n.
§ 980. Upon an appeal heard upon a statement of the
case, the Superior Court may review all orders affecting
the judgment appealed from, and may set aside, or con
firm, or modify any or all of the proceedings subsequent
to and dependent upon such judgment, and may, if neces
sary or proper, order a new trial. When the action is
tried anew on appeal, the trial must be conducted in all
respects as other trials in the Superior Court. The pro
visions of this Code as to changing the place of trial, and
all the provisions as to trials in the Superior Court, are
applicable to trials on appeal in the Superior Court. Tor
a failure to prosecute an appeal, or unnecessary delay in
bringing it to a hearing, the Superior Court, after notice,
may order the appeal to be dismissed, with costs; and if
it appear to such court that the appeal was made solely
for delay, it may add to the costs such damages as may
be just, not exceeding twenty-five per cent, of the judg
ment appealed from. Judgments rendered in the Su
perior Court on appeal shall have the same force and
effect, and may be enforced in the same manner, as judg
ments in actions commenced in the Superior Court. [In
effect
New trial—8
March Cal.
26th,
517 1880.]
; 9 Cal. 211 ; 40 CaL S».
Cal.
Conduct
342. of trial—generally, sec. 607n: amendment to pleadings. 10
Transfer from Justices' Court—17 Cal. 68; 50 Cal. 509.
Dismissal of appeal—39 Cal. 669; 40 Cal. 642.
Appeal for delay—compare sec. 957w.
CHAPTER, LXXL
An Act to repeal chapters four and five, of title thirteen, of
part two, of the Code of Civil Procedure, and each and
every section of said chapters four and five, relating to
appeals in civil actions. [Approved April 15th, 1880.]
Tho People of the State of California, represented in
Senate and Assembly, do enact as follows:
§ 1. Chapters four and five, of title thirteen, of part
two, of the Code of Civil Procedure, and each and every
section of. said chapters four and five, [§ 969-980J are here
by repealed.
§ 2. This Act shall take effect immediately.
§ 989. When a judgment is recovered against one or
more of several persons, jointly indebted upon an obliga
tion, by proceeding, as provided in section four hundred
and fourteen, those who were not originally served with the
summons, and did not appear to the action, may be sum
moned to show cause why they should not be bound by
the judgment in the same manner as though they had
been originally served with the summons.
Cognate provisions—sees. 383, 414, 579.
Bound by the judgment—48Cal. 438: but no action on judgment, 39
Cal. 34.
§ 990. The summons, as provided in the last section,
must describe the judgment, and require the person sum
moned to show cause why he should not be bound by it,
and must be served in the same manner and returnable
within the same time as the original summons. It is not
necessary
Summons—contents,
to rile a new
service,
complaint.
etc., sees. 407, 410, et seq.
§ 991. The summons must be accompanied by an affi
davit of the plaintifff, his agent, representative, or attor
ney, that the judgment, or some part thereof, remains
unsatisfied, and must specify the amount due thereon.
§ 992. Upon such summons, the defendant may an
swer within the time specified therein, denying the judg
ment, or setting up any defense which may have arisen
subsequently; or he may deny his liability on the obliga
tion upon which the judgment was recovered, except a
discharge from such liability by the Statute of Limitations.
Answer—sec. 437, notes, et seq.
§ 993. If the defendant, in his answer, deny the judg
ment, or set up any defense which may have arisen sub
sequently, the summons, with the affidavit annexed, and
the answer, constitute the written allegations in the case :
if he deny his liability on the obligation upon which the
judgment was recovered, a copy of the original complaint
and judgment, the summons, with the affidavit annexed,
and the answer, constitute such written allegations.
§ 994. The issues formed may be tried as in other
cases; but when the defendant denies, in his answer, any
liability on the obligation upon which the judgment was
rendered, if a verdict be found against him it must be for
not exceeding the amount remaining unsatisfied on such
original judgment, with interest thereon.
Trial—sees. 607-645.
§ 997. The defendant may, at any time before the trial
or judgment, serve upon the plaintifff an offer to allow
judgment to be taken against him for the sum or property,
or to the effect therein specified. If the plaintifff accept
the offer, and give notice thereof within five days, he may
file the offer, with proof of notice of acceptance, and the
clerk must thereupon enter judgment accordingly. If
the notice of acceptance be not given, the offer is to be
deemed withdrawn, and cannot be given in evidence upon
the trial ; and if the plaintifff fail to obtain a more favor
able judgment, he cannot recover costs, but must pay the
defendant's costs from the time of the offer. [In effect
July 1st, 1874.]
Before the trial—17 Cal. 582.
Offer—not an admission, sec. 2078: equivalent to tender, sec. 2074.
Cognovit as admission—6 Cal. 607.
Judgment—entered, 25 Cal. 502: by confesslon,«ec. 1132.
Defendant's costs—28 Cal. 238.
§ 1O0O. Any court in which an action is pending, or
a judge thereof, may, upon notice, order either party to
give to the other, within a specified time, an inspection
and copy, or permission to take a copy, of entries of ac
counts in any book, or of any document or paper in his
possession, or under his control, containing evidence re
lating to the merits of the action, or the defense therein.
If compliance with the order he refused, the court may
exclude the entries of accounts of the book, or the docu
ment, or paper from being given in evidence, or if wanted
as evidence by the party applying, may direct the jury
to presume them to be such as he alleges them to be;
and the court may also punish the party refusing for a
contempt. This section is not to be construed to prevent
a party from compelling another to produce books, pa
pers, or documents, when he is examined as a witness.
[In effect April 15th, 1880.]
Compelling production of books, etc.—sec. 1985 tt teq.: see also,
sees. 1938, 1939.
Contempt—sec. 1209 et icq.
§ 1003. Every direction of a court or judge made or
entered in writing, and not included in a judgment, is de
nominated an order. An application for an order is a mo
tion.
Order—form of, 48 Cal. 197: vacating, sec. 937; 46 Cal. 31: roodifyirg
interlocutory,
plication for, sees.
47 Cal.
182,70:183:enforcement,
final, effect ofsec.as128,
estoppel,
subd. 4:sec.renewing.
1908. ai,Motion—notice of, sec. 1005 : heard before court commissioners, sec.
259, subd. 1.
§ 1004. Motions must be made in the county, or city
and county, in which the action is pending. Orders made
out of court may be made by the judge of the court in
any part of the State. [In effect March 10th, 1880.]
Power of judge at chambers—sees. 165, 166, 176; 30 Cal. 530,560; 49
Cal. 239: judge in another county, 32 Cal. 568; 35 Cal. 688: court com
missioner's control of ex parte motions, sec. 259, subd. 1.
§ 1005. When a written notice of a motion is neces
sary, it must be given, if the court be held in the same
county, or city aud county, with both parties, five days
before the time appointed for the hearing; otherwise, ten
days. When the notice is served by mail, the number of
days before the hearing must be increased one day for
every twenty-five miles of distance between the place of
deposit and the place of service; such increase, however,
not to exceed in all thirty days ; but in all cases the court,
or a judge thereof, may prescribe a shorter time. [In ef
fect March 10th, 1880.]
Motion, notice of—period, 22 Cal. 479; 30 Cal. 123; 35 Cal. 465: stating
grounds,
10 Cal. on
338:commission,
written, must
be, 439:
sec. order
1010; 12made
Cal. without
441 : 24 Cal.
365:
Cor
depositions
48 Cal.
notice,
sec.
937;
Livermore
r.
Hodgkins,
April
26th,
1880,
5
Pac.
C.
L.
J.
348:
filing counter-affidavits, 22 Cal. 131 : estoppel, 14 Cal. 667.
Service—of papers generally, sec. 1010 et seq.
Distance—23 Cal. 112.
§ 1006. 'When a notice of motion is given, or an order
to show cause is made returnable, before a judge out of
court, and at the time fixed for the motion, or on the
return day of the order, the judge is unable to hear the
parties, the matter may be transferred by his order to
some other judge, before whom it might priginally have
been
Notice
Order
§ 1007.
brought.
toofshow
motion—sec.
Whenever
cause—need
1005
anand
oforder
service,
note.for16the
Cal.payment
90.
of a sum

of money is made by a court, pursuant to the provisions
of this Code, it may be enforced by execution in the same
manner
Enforcedasbyif execution—sec.
it were a judgment.
681 et seq. : contempt, sec. 1209 et seg.
flOlO. Notices must be in writing, and notices and
er papers may be served upon the party or attorney in
the manner prescribed in this chapter, when not otherwise
provided by this Code.
§ 1011. The service may be personal, by delivery to
the party or attorney on whom the service is required to
be made, or it may be as follows :
1. If upon an attorney, it may be made during his ab
sence from his office, by leaving the notice or other pa
pers with his clerk therein, or with a person having
charge thereof; or when there is no person in the office,
by leaving them, between the hours of eight in the morn
ing and six in the afternoon, in a conspicuous place in the
office : or if it be not open so as to admit of such service,
then by leaving them at the attorney's residence, with
some person of suitable age and discretion; and if his
residence be not known, then by putting the same, in
closed in an envelope, into the post-office, directed to such
attorney.
2. If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the notice
or other paper at his residence, between the hours of eight
in the morning and six in the evening, with some person
of suitable age and discretion; and if his residence be
not known, by putting the same, inclosed in an envelope,
into the post-office, directed to such party.
Service—28
of notice
appeal,
ceptance
Subdivision
of, 22Cal.
Cal.
1. 151;
650.
On32Cal.475:
attorney—sec.
1015; 6ofCal.
55; 4946Cal.Cal.510.650 : ac
Subdivision 2. On party—34 TJal. 65S.
§ 1012. Service by mail may be made, where the per
son making the service, and the person on whom it is to
be made, reside or have their offices in different places,
between which there is a regular communication by mail.
[In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Persons making the service—35 Gal. 184.
Beside, etc., in different places—30 Cal. 184.
§ 1013. In case of service by mail, the notice or other
paper must be deposited in the post-office, addressed to
the person on whom it is to be served, at his office or place
of residence, and the postage paid. The service is com
plete at the time of the deposit, but if within a given
number of days after such service a right may be exer
cised, or an act is to be done by the adverse party, the
time within which such right may be exercised or act be
done is- extended one day for every twenty-five miles dis
tance between the place of deposit and the place of ad
dress ; such extension, however, not to exceed ninety days
in all. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Distance—sec. 1005n; 23 Cal. 152.
Proof of service by mail—35 Cal. 184.
§ 1014. A defendant appears in an action when he an
swers, demurs, or gives the plaintifff written notice of his
appearance, or when an attorney gives notice of appear
ance for him. After appearance, a defendant or his at
torney is entitled to notice of all subsequent proceedings
of which notice is required to be given. But where a de
fendant has not appeared, service of notice or papers need
not be made upon him unless he is imprisoned for want
of bail.
Appearance—answer as,
Notice of subsequent proceedings—how given, sec. 1015.
§ 1015. When a plaintifff or a defendant, who has ap
peared, resides out of the State, and has no attorney in
the action or proceeding, the service may be made on the
clerk for him. But in all cases where a party has an at
torney in the action or proceeding, the service of papers,
when required, must be upon the attorney instead of the
party, except of subpoenas, of writs, and other process is
sued in the suit, and of papers to bring him into contempt.
Attorney—authority of, sec. 283, subd.l, note: 21 Cal. 426; 42 Cal. 439;
duties of, sac. 282: disbarred, when, see sees. 287 to 299; People v. Pear
son, June loth, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 537.
Service, how made—sec. 1011 : on attorney, 47 Cal. 644.
Exception of process and contempt—sec. 1016.
§ 1016. The foregoing provisions of this chapter do
not apply to the service of a summons or other process,
or of any paper to bring a party into contempt.
§ 1017. Any summons, writ, or order, in any civil suit
or proceeding, and all other papers requiring service, may
be transmitted by telegraph for service in any place, ana
the telegraphic copy of such writ, or order, or paper, so
transmitted, may be served or executed by the officer or
person to whom it is sent for that purpose, and returned
by him, if any return be requisite, in the same manner,
and with the same force and effect, in all respects, as the
original thereof might be if delivered to him; and the of
ficer or person serving or executing the same has the same
authority, and is subject to the same liabilities, as if the
copy were the original. The original, when a writ or or
der, must also be filed in the court from which it was
issued, and a certified copy thereof must be preserved in
the telegraph office from which it was sent. In sending
it, either the original or the certified copy may be used by
the operator for that purpose. Whenever any document
to be sent by telegraph bears a seal, either private or offi
cial, it is not necessary for the operator, in sending the
same, to telegraph a description of the seal, or any words
or device thereon, but the same may be expressed in the
telegraphic copy by the letters "L. S." or by the word
" seal.
C
§ 1021. The measure and mode of compensation of at
torneys and counsellors at law is left to the agreement, ex
press or implied, of the parties ; hut parties to actions or
proceedings are entitled to costs and disbursements, as
hereinafter provided.
of costs.

1. In an action for the recovery of real property;
2. In an action to recover the possession of personal
property, where the value of the property amounts to
three hundred dollars or over; such value shall be deter
mined by the jury, court, or referee by whom the action
is tried;
3. In an action for the recovery of money or damages,
when plaintifff recovers three hundred dollars or over;
4. In a special proceeding;
5. In an action which involves the title or possession of
real estate, or the legality of any tax, impost, assessment,
toll, or municipal fine.
Section generally—30 Cal. 545; 37 Cal. 202.
Oosts discretionary—when, sees. 1025, 1027.
Subdivision 1. Real property—recovery of possession of, 30 Cal.
547; 37 Cal. 202.
Subdivision 2. Personal property—value, sec. 1025; 5 CaL 267; 33
Cal. 309.
Subdivisions. Money or damages—sec. 1025: damages, 10 CaL
217; 17 Cal. 336.
Subdivision 4. Special proceeding—generally, sees. 1063-1822.
Subdivision 5. Tax suits—53 Cal. 386.
§ 1023. When several actions are brought on one
bond, undertaking, promissory note, bill of exchange, or
other instrument in writing, or in any other case for the
same cause of action, against several parties who might
have been joined as defendants in the same action, no
costs can be allowed to the plaintifff in more than one of
such actions, which may be at his election, if the party
proceeded against in the other actions were, at the com
mencement of the previous action, openly within this
State; but the disbursements of the plaintifff must be
allowed to him in each action.
Several parties—who might have been joined as defendants, sec.
383.
§ 1024. Costs must be allowed, of course, to the de
fendant, upon a judgment in his favor in the actions men
tioned in section ten hundred and twenty-two, and in
special proceedings.
Special proceedings—sees. 1063-1822.
§ 1025. In other actions than those mentioned in sec
tion ten hundred and twenty-two, costs may be allowed or
not, and, if allowed, may be apportioned between the par
ties, on the same or adverse sides, in the discretion of the
court; but no costs can be allowed in an action for the
recovery of money or damages when the plaintifff recovers
less than three hundred dollars, nor in an action to recover
the possession of personal property, when the value of the
property is less than three hundred dollars.
Costs discretionary—when, 25 Cal. 266; 28 Cal. 561: 35 Cal. 136; 33
Cal.
Recovers
667; 40 Cal.
less288.
than $300—6 Cal. 286; 17 Cal. 336.
§ 1026. When there are several defendants in the
actions mentioned in section ten hundred and twenty-two,
not united in interest, and making separate defenses by
separate answers, and plaintifff fails to recover judgment
against all, the court must award costs to such of the de
fendants as have judgment in their favor.
Judgment for some defendants—sec. 578 and note.
Joint recovery of costs—by several defendants, 5 Cal. 61 : joint lia
bility also, 18 Cal. 219.
§ 1027. In the following cases, the costs of appeal are
in the discretion of the court :
1. When a new trial is ordered;
2. When a judgment is modified.
Oosts of appeal—meaning of term, 11 Cal. 341 : of printing tran
script, 28 Cal. 123.
Subdivision 1. New trial ordered—13 Cal. 58 ; 24 Cal. 350.
Subdivision 2. Judgment modified—sees. 53n, 957; 1 Cal. 51; 2
Cal. 269; 18 Cal. 689; 30 Cal. 458.
§ 1028. The fees of referees are five dollars to each for
every day spent in the business of the reference ; but the
parties may agree, in writing, upon any other rate of com
pensation, and thereupon such rate shall bo allowed.
Reference—generally, sees. 638-645.
Referees in partition—compensation of, sees. 768, 796.
S 1029. When an application is made to a court or
referee to postpone a trial, the payment of costs occa
sioned by the postponement may be imposed, in the dis
cretion of the court or referee, as a condition of granting
the
Postponement—generally,
same.
sees. 595, 596.
§ 1030. When, in an action for the recovery of money
only, the defendant alleges in his answer that before the
commencement of the action, he tendered to the plaintifff
the full amount to which he was entitled, and thereupon
deposits in court for plaintifff the amount so tendered,
and the allegation be found to be true, the plaintifff can
not recover costs, but must pay costs to the defendant.
No costs where section followed;-25 Cal. 502.
Tender—sec. 2076: plea of, when gains costs, 28 Cal. 238.
Offer to compromise—flee. 997.
Deposit in court—sees. 572-574, sec. 1024.
§ 1031. In an action prosecuted or defended by an ex
ecutor, administrator, trustee of express trust, or a per
son expressly authorized by statute, costs may be recov
ered as in action by and against a person prosecuting or
defending in bis own right; but such costs must by the
judgment be made chargeable only upon the estate, fund,
or party represented, unless the court directs the same to
be paid by the plaintifff or defendant, personally, for mis
management or bad faith in the action or defense.
Costs against executor, etc.—sees. 1508, 1509; 6 Cal. 169; 33 Cal. 658.
Trust funds—attorney's fee out of, 40 Cal. 288.
§ 1032. When the decision of a court of inferior juris
diction in a special proceeding is brought before a court
of higher jurisdiction for a review, in any other way than
by appeal, the same costs must be allowed as in cases on
appeal, and may be collected by execution, or in such
manner as the court may direct, according to the nature
of the case.
Special proceedings—generally, sees. 1063-1822.
Decision of inferior court reviewed—sees. 1067-1110. *
Costs on appeal—sees. 129n, 1027, 1034.
§ 1033. The party in whose favor judgment is ren
dered, and who claims his costs, must deliver to the clerk,
and serve upon the adverse narty, within five days after
the verdict or notice of the decision of the court or referee—
or, if the entry of the judgment on the verdict or decision
be stayed, then before such entry is made—a memo
randum of the items of his costs and necessary disburse
ments in the action or proceeding, which memorandum
must be verified by the oath of the party, or his attorney
or agent, or by the clerk of his attorney, stating that to
the best of his knowledge and belief the items are cor
rect, and that the disbursements have been necessarily
incurred in the action or proceeding. A party dissatisfied
with the costs claimed, may, within five days after notice
of filing of the bill of costs, file a motion to have the same
taxed by the court in which the judgment was rendered,
or by the judge thereof at chambers. [In effect July 1st,
1874.]
Memorandum of costs—essential, 16 Cal. 403.
Items included—new trial, where, see 13CaL58: short-hand report
er's fees, sec. 274 : witness fees, see 41 Cal. 242.
Eetaxation
417; 580:
23 Cal.
286: amendment
of bill of
costs,
sec. 473n;of3 costs—5
Cal. 115;Cal.
46 Cal.
correcting
error by appeal,
23
Cal. 245.
Costs on appeal—section inapplicable to, 11 CAL 341: generally, see
sec. 1032n.
§ 1034. Whenever costs are awarded to a party by an
appellate court, if he claims such costs, he must, within
thirty days after the remittitur is filed with the clerk be
low, deliver to such clerk a memorandum of his costs,
verified as prescribed by the preceding section, and there
after he may have an execution therefore as upon a judg
ment.
Costs on appeal—sec. 1032n; 14 Gal. 232; Cohen v. Gray, March 4th,
1880, 5 Pac. C.L.J. 71.
Remittitur—sec. 958.
Memorandum of costs—delivered to clerk of court below, 24 Cal.
350.
Execution therefore—14 Cal. 232; 24 Cal. 350.
§ 1035. The clerk must include in the judgment entered
up by him, any interest on the verdict or decision of the
court, from the time it was rendered or made, and the
costs, if the same have been taxed or ascertained; and he
must, within two days after the same are taxed or ascer
tained, if not included in' the judgment, insert the same
in a blank, left in the judgment for that purpose, and
must make a similar insertion of the costs in the copies
and
Entering
docketupofinterest—30
the judgment.
Cal. 78.
Inserting costs in blank—formerly unauthorized, 16 Cal. 403.
§ 1036. When the plaintifff in an action resides out of
the State, or is a foreign corporation, security for the costs
and charges, which may be awarded against such plaint
iff, may be required by the defendant. When required,
all proceedings in the action must be stayed until an un
dertaking, executed by two or more persons, is filed with
the clerk, to the effect that they will pay such costs and
charges as may be awarded against the plaintifff by judg
ment, or in the progress of the action, not exceeding the
sum of three hundred dollars. A new or an additional
undertaking may be ordered by the court or judge, upon
proof that the original undertaking is insufficient security,
and proceedings in the action stayed until such new or
additional undertaking is executed and filed.
Residence of corporation—22 Cal. 538.
Notice that security is required—sec. 1037; 19 Cal. 77.
Undertakings generally—sec. 94] n.
§ 1037. After the lapse of thirty days from the service
of notice that security is required, or of an order for new
or additional security, upon proof thereof, and that no
undertaking as required has been filed, the court or judge
may order the action to be dismissed.
Dismissal, when too late—19 Cal. 77.
§ 1038. When the State is a party, and costs are
awarded against it, they must be paid out of the State
treasury.
No security required of State—sec. 1058.
§ 1039. When a county is a party, and costs are
awarded against it, they must be paid out of the county
treasury.
No security required of county—sec. 1058.
§ 1045. If an original pleading or paper be lost, the
court may authorize a copy thereof to be filed and used
instead of the original.
Lost papers—! Cal. 381; 24 CaL 267; 27 Cal. 423; 28 Cal. 557; 49 Cal. 263.
§ 1046. An affidavit, notice, or other paper, without
the title of the action or proceeding in which it is made,
or with a defective title, is as valid and effectual for any
purpose as if duly entitled, if it intelligibly refer to such
action or proceeding.
Defective title—3 Cal. 195.
§ 1047. Successive actions may be maintained upon
the same contract or transaction, whenever, after the
former action, a new cause of action arises therefrom.
Action defined—sec. 22.
§ 1048. Whenever two or more actions are pending at
one time between the same parties and in the same court,
upon causes of action which might have been joined, the
court may order the actions to be consolidated.
Consolidation of actions—27 Cal. 500 ; 29 Cal. 307.
§ 1049. An action is deemed to be pending from the
time of its commencement until its final determination
upon appeal, or until the time for appeal has passed, un
less the judgment is sooner satisfied.
Pendency of action—36 Cal. 391.
§ 1050. An action may be brought by one person
against another for the purpose of determining an ad
verse claim, which the latter makes against the former
for money or property upon an alleged obligation; and
also against two or more persons, for the purpose of com
pelling one to satisfy a debt due to the other, for which
plaintifff is bound as a surety.
Preventing suit—provision not designed for, 5 Cal. 82; and see 13
Cal. 696.
Quieting title to realty—sec. 738.
Surety's suit—24 Cal. 157.
§ 1051. On the trial of an action in a court of record,
if there is no short-hand reporter of the court in attend
ance, either party may require the clerk to take down the
testimony in writing.
Clerk's powers and duties—sec. 670n.
Clerk's minutes of the trial—1 Cal. 462, 470; 2 Cal. 54, 161; 14 Cal. 38,
81; 27 Cal. 107; 28 Cal. 174, 299 ; 33 Cal. 173.
§ 1052. The clerk must keep among the records of the
court a register of actions. He must enter therein the
title of the action, with brief notes under it, from time to
time, of all papers filed and proceedings had therein.
Records of the court—see sees. 668, 672, 683.
§ 1053. When there are three referees, or three arbi
trators, all must meet, but two of them may do any act
which might be done by all.
References and trials by referees—sees. 638-645.
§ 1054. When an act to be done, as provided in this
Code, relates to the pleadings in the action, or the under
takings to be filed, or the justification of sureties, or the
preparation of statements, or of bills of exceptions, or of
amendments thereto, or to the service of notices other
than of appeal, the time allowed by this Code may be ex
tended, upon good cause shown by the court in which the
action is pending, or a judge thereof; but such extension
shall not exceecf thirty days without the consent of the
adverse party. [In effect March 9th, 1880.]
Extension of time—17 Cal. 122; 24 Cal. 179; 27 Cal. 108, 338; 41 Cal.
515; 43 Cal. 320; 47 Cal. 86: computation of time, sec. 12 and notes : holi
days,
Thirty
sees.days—28
10, 11, 13.Cal. 238; 43 Cal. 320.
§ 1055. If an action be brought against a sheriff for an
act done by virtue of his office, and he give written notice
thereof to the sureties on any bond of indemnity received
by him, the judgment recovered therein shall be conclu
sive evidence of his right to recover against such sureties;
and the court may, on motion, upon notice of five days,
order judgment to be entered up against them for the
amount so recovered, including costs. [In effect April
15th, 1880.]
Indemnifier
Section strictly
mayconstrued—against
intervene—21 Cal.sheriff,
442. 28 Cal. 102.
§ 1056. Repealed. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
§ 1057. In all cases where an undertaking with sure
ties is required by the provisions of this Code, the officer
taking the same must require the sureties to accompany
it with an affidavit that they are each residents and
householders or freeholders within the State, and are each
worth the 'sum specified in the undertaking, over and
above all their just debts and liabilities, exclusive of
property exempt from execution; but when the amount
specified in the undertaking exceeds three thousand dol
lars, and there are more than two sureties thereon, they
may state in their affidavits that they are severally worth
amounts less than that expressed in the undertaking, if
the whole amount be equivalent to that of two sufficient
sureties.
Undertaking—defective, 2 Cal. 862; 13 Cal. 606.
Affidavit—defective, curing objection to,52 Cal. 447; each worth the
sum, etc., 7 Cal. 518.
Property exempt from, execution—sec. 690 and notes.
Applied to guardians—sec. 1809.
§ 1058. In any civil action or proceeding wherein the
State, or the people of the State, is a party plaintifff, or
any State officer, in his official capacity, or on behalf of
the State, or any county, city and county, city, or town,
is a party plaintifff or defendant, no bond, written under
taking, or security can be required of the State, or the
people thereof, or any officer thereof, or of any county, city
and county, city, or town ; but on complying with the other
provisions of this Code, the State, or the people thereof,
or any State officer acting in his official capacity, have the
same rights, remedies, and benefits as if the bond, under
taking, or security were given and approved as required
by this Code. [In effect April 15th, 1880.]
Coats against State or county—sees. 1038, 1039.
County—Board of Supervisors Included, 10 Cal. 344.
§ 1059. Whenever any surety on an undertaking on
appeal, executed to stay proceedings upon a money judg
ment, pays the judgment, either with or without action,
after its affirmation by the appellate court, he is substi
tuted to the rights of the judgment creditor, and is enti
tled to control, enforce, and satisfy such judgment in all
respects as if he had recovered the same. [In effect July
1st, 1874.] .
Undertaking on appeal—sec. 941n.
Subrogation of sureties—sec. 709n.
§ 1064. A judgment in a special proceeding is the final
determination of the rights of the parties therein. The
definitions of a motion and an order in a civil action are
applicable
Judgment—definition
Motion andtoorder—sec.
similarof,acts
1003.
sec.in577aand
special
note. proceeding.
§ 1067. The writ of certiorari may be denominated
the writ of review. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Writ, generally—sec. 51n.
§ 1068. A writ of review may be granted by any
court, except a Police or Justice's Court, when an inferior
tribunal, board, or officer, exercising judicial functions,
has exceeded the jurisdiction of such tribunal, board, or
officer, and there is no appeal, nor, in the judgment of the
court, any plain, speedy, and adequate remedy.
Certiorari—Extent of review on, sec. 1074. and see Exceeded the
Jurisdiction, note infra. Object—to annul and not to restrain; Lamb
r.wise—see
Schottler,
March
17th, 1880,the
5 Pac.Jurisdiction,
C. L. J. 140. When
under
Exceeded
noteproper
infra. or other
Granted by any court—see sees, bin, 76, subd. 5 and notes; 7 Cal.
113; 10 Cal. 344 ( 49 Cal. 29.
Inferior tribunal—board or officer; existence of court Implied, 53
Cal. 644.
Exercising judicial functions—applies to municipal boards, 8 Cal.
58; 13 Cal. 11; 16 Cal. 208; 18 Cal. 49; 23 Cal. 302, 492; 25 Cal. 94; 51 Cal.
307: 52 Cal. 132; 53 Cal. 389; Lamb v. Schottler, March 17th, 1880, 5 Pac.
C. L. J. 140; People v. Board of Education. Oakland, March 22ml, 1880,
5 Pac.
Exceeded
C. L. J.the
194:jurisdiction—Meaning
ministerial act of judicial
of phrase,
officer,43 40Cal.Cal.
365.344.No inter
ference
otherwise,
r. Finochio, Feb. 2nd, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 53. Extent of review-sec.
1074: errors of law or judgment, not corrected, 29 Cal. 459, 632; 40 Cal.
642;
42 Cal.not
630;proper,
43 Cal.2312Cal., 365262:; 45certiorari
Cal. 245; proper,
46 Cal. 79,
667 ; 570;
47 Cal.
604.
Certiorari
39 Cal.
51 Cal.
307 ; 53 Cal. 389, 495; Bateman t,. Superior Court, etc., March 6th. 1880, 5
Pac. C. L. J. 77; Cal. F. Co. o. Halsey, March 15th, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J.
125.
No appeal—requisite for certiorari.
In the judgment of the court—discretion to refuse writ, 42 Cal. 252;
47 Cal. 222; 50 Cal. 473: discretion in quashing; Lamb v. Schottler,
March 17th, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 140.
Plain, speedy, and adequate remedy—see No Appeal, note supra,
and 1 Cal. 152; 14 Cal. 479; 47 Cal. 528; Lamb v. Schottler, March 17th,
1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 140.
§ 1069. The application must be made on affidavit by
the party beneficially interested, and the court may re
quire a notice of the application to be given to the adverse
party, or may grant an order to show cause why it should
not
Application—49
be allowed, Cal.
or may
136: grant
Supremo
theCt.writ
rulewithout
28. Noticenotice.
of—38 Cal.
683. By party beneficially interested, see sec. 367n; 53 Cal. 389. Issuance
—only upon order of the Court, 40 Cal. 481 ; Supreme Ct. rule 23.
§ 1070. The writ may be directed to the inferior tri
bunal, board, or officer, or to any other person having the
custody of the record or proceedings to be certified.
When directed to a tribunal, the clerk, if there be one,
must return the writ with the transcript required.
Code Civ. Proo.—8».
Directed to inferior tribunal, etc 53 Cal. 644; Lamb v. Schottler.
March 17th, 1880, 8 Pac. C. L. J. 140.
Return of writ—sec. 1075, 34 Cal. 352; 53 Cal. 644: transcript require!
see Certifying Record akd Proceedings, sec. 1071n.
§ 1871. The writ of review mast command the party
to whom it is directed to certify fully to the court issuing
the writ, at a specified time and place, a transcript of the
record and proceedings, (describing or referring to them
with convenient certainty) that the same may be reviewed
by the court ; and requiring the party, in the meantime,
to desist from further proceedings in the matter to be re
viewed.
Party to whom directed— Lamb r. Schottler, March 17th, 1880, 5
Pac. C. L. J. 140.
Certifying record and proceedings—32 Cal. 50, 582; 34 Cal. 352.
At specified time—see Supreme Ct. rule 23.
§ 1072. If a stay of proceedings be not intended, the
words requiring the stay must be omitted from the writ;
these words may be inserted or omitted, in the sound dis
cretion of the court; but if omitted, the power of the in
ferior court or officer is not suspended or the proceedings
stayed.
§ 1073. The writ must be served in the same manner
as a summons in civil action, except when otherwise ex
pressly directed by the court.
Service of writ—on public tribunal, etc., and proof of same, Su
preme Ct. rule 28.
Service of summons—sec. 410 etseq.
§ 1074. The review upon this writ cannot be extended
further than to determine whether the inferior tribunal,
board, or officer has regularly pursued the authority of
such tribunal, board, or officer.
Extent of review—see under Exceeded the Jurisdiction, sec.
1068n; 14 Cal. 479; 35 Cal. 269; 43 Cal. 365; 53 Cal. 204, 644.
Regularly pursued its authority—interpretation of, 43 CaL 365; 53
Cal. 204 ; Bateman c. Superior Court, etc., March 6th, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L.
J. 77.
§ 1075. If the return of the writ be defective, the
court may order a further return to be made. When a
full return has been made, the court must hear the parties,
or such of them as may attend for that purpose, and may
thereupon give judgment, either affirming, or annulling,
orReturn—sec.
modifying1070n.
the proceedings below.
Hearing—see Granted by any COURT, sec. l068n.
Modifying proceedings below—39 Cal. 570.
g 1076. A copy of the judgment, signed by the clerk,
must be transmitted to the inferior tribunal, board, or
officer having the custody of the record or proceeding
certified up.
§ 1077. A copy of the judgment, signed by the clerk,
entered upon or attached to the writ and return, consti
tute the judgment roll.
Judgment roll—petition no part of, 47 Cal. 604.
§ 1084. The writ of mandamus may be denominated a
writ of mandate. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Writ—sec. 51n.
§ 1085. It may be issued by any court, except a Jus
tice's or Police Court, to any inferior tribunal, corporation,
board, or person, to compel the performance of an act
which the law specially enjoins, as a duty resulting from
an office, trust, or station; or to compel the admission of
a party to the use and enjoyment of a right or office to
which he is entitled, and from which he is unlawfully
precluded by such inferior tribunal, corporation, board,
or person.
Issued by any court—by superseded courts, 30 Cal. 244; 45 Cal. 679;
49 Cal. 31 ; power to issue, see sees. 51, 76, subd. 5, and notes to same :
not issued where no longer necessary, 36 Cal. 289: Supreme Courts,
original jurisdiction, 47 Cal. 205; Hyatt v. Allen, March 23rd, 1880,5
Pac. C. L. J. 664.
Inferior tribunal, etc/—Discretion not interfered with, 7 Cal. 276;
10 Cal. 376; 22 Cal. 34; 28 Cal. 639.
Corporation—private, against, see When not proper, under Man
damus, acope and function of, note infra.
Board—see Supervisors, under next note.
Persons, official—to whom writ directed: auditor, county, 44 Cal.
tax
collector, 20 Cal. 318: treasurer, county, 39 Cal. 593; and see When
not proper, under Mandamus, Scope and Function of, note
infra,
4
Performance of an act—compelling, but judicial or discretionary
act not undone, 24 Cal. 78; 28 Cal. 639; 36 Cal. 283 ; 37 Cal. 532; 4r Cal.
68; and see next note.
Duty resulting from an office, etc.—4 Cal. 177; 7 Cal. 278; 10 Cal. 376;
20 Cal. 318; 25 Cal. 26; 30 Cal. 325,676 ; 39 Cal. 411; 43 Cal. 225; 51 Cal.
328.
Mandamus, scope and function of—Demand before application,
18 Cal. 91; 20 Cal. 72; 37 Cal. 362 ; 53 Cal. 199. Directed, to whom, see
Persons, Official, note, supra. Discretion not controlled, see In
ferior Tribunal, etc.; also, Performance of an Act, notes
supra. Record, showing of, 18 Cal. 432: 46 Cal. 53; 48 Cal. 47. When
proper,
177; 328;
7 Cal.Talcott
286; 16 v.Cal.
11, 436; 21March
Cal.
419; 30 sec.
Cal. 1086;
325 ; 150Cal.
Cal.143;561;4 Cal.
61 Cal.
Blanding,
10th, 1880 ; 5 Pac. C. L. J. 86; and see notes supra. When not proper,
clerk against,
of board44ofCal.
supervisors,
52 Cal.between,
411: corporation,
pri
vate,
173: courts,against,
co-ordinate,
1 Cal. 149, and
§ 1086. The writ mast be issued in all cases where
there is not a plain, speedy, and adequate remedy, in the
ordinary course of law. It must be issued upon affidavit,
on the application of the party beneficially interested.
Plain, speedy, and adequate remedy—Prevents issuance, where ap
peal, 2 Cal. 40694Cal.
: 9 Cal.
18; 15seeCal.When
149; 24notCal.
79; 29 under
Cal. 427Scope
; 60 Cal.and
509:
generally,
278;7,and
proper,
Function
of
Mandamus,
sec.
1085n.
Issuance
proper,
where
lading,
where no appeal, 43 Cal. 225: or appeal inadequate remedy, 7 Cal. 130:
generally, 36 Cal. 283, and see, When proper, under Scope and Func
tion of Mandamus, sec. 1085b.
Issued on affidavit—insufficient showing, 22 Cal. 142: by Supreme
Court, see Supreme Ct. rule 28.
Application—by whom; party beneficially interested, sec. 367n; 25
Cal. 26; 26 Cal. 641 ; 29 Cal. 210.
§ 1087. The writ may be either alternative or per
emptory. The alternative writ must state generally the
allegation against the party to whom it is directed, and
command such party, immediately after the receipt of
the writ, or at some other specified time, to do the act
required to be performed, or to show cause before the
court, at a specified time and place, why he has not done
so. The peremptory writ must be in a similar form, ex
cept that the words requiring the party to show cause
why he has not done as commanded must be omitted, and
a return day inserted.
Peremptory writ—without alternative, sec. 1088, and note.
Command such party—nature of directions, 6 Cal. 440; 33 CaL 487.
§ 1088. When the application to the court is made
without notice to the adverse party, and the writ be al
lowed, the alternative must be tirst issued; but if the
application be upon due notice, and the writ be allowed,
the peremptory may be issued in the first instance. The
notice of the application, when given, must be at least
ten days. The writ cannot be granted by default. The
case must be heard by the court, whether the adverse
party appear or not.
Proof of service—on public body, Supreme Ct. rule 28.
Peremptory writ—without alternative, 1 Cal. 143; 27 Cal. 684.
§ 1089. On the return of the alternative, or the day on
which the application for the writ is noticed, the party on
whom the writ or notice has been served may show cause
by answer under oath, made in the same manner as an
answer to a complaint in a civil action.
Answer—sec. 437, and notes; 27 Cal. 655.
§ 1090. If an answer be made, which raises a question
as to a matter of fact essential to the determination of the
motion, and affecting the substantial rights of the parties,
and upon the supposed truth of the allegation of which
the application tor the writ is based, the court may, in its
discretion, order the question to be tried before a jury,
and postpone the argument until such trial can be had,
and the verdict certified to the court. The question to be
tried must be distinctly stated in the order for trial, and
the county must be designated in which the same shall be
had. The order may also direct the jury to assess any
damages which the applicant may have sustained, in case
they find for him.
Question to be tried—9 Cal. 20; 14 Cal. 428; 17 Cal. 476.
Order for trial—form of, 45 Cal. 395.
§ 1091. On the trial the applicant is not precluded by
the answer from any valid objection to its sufficiency, and
may countervail it by proof, either in direct denial or by
way of avoidance.
Sufficiency of answer — objection to, equivalent to general de
murrer, 27 Cal. 655; 30 Cal. 599; 48 Cal. 36.
§ 1092. The motion for a new trial must be made in
the court in which the issue of fact is tried.
New trial—generally, sec. 656, et sea.: in Supreme Court, when orig
inal jurisdiction exercised, 25 Cal. 635.
§ 1093. If no notice of a motion for a new trial be
given, or, if given, the motion be denied, the clerk, within
rive days after rendition of the verdict or denial of the
motion, must transmit to the court in which the applica
tion for the writ is pending, a certified copy of the verdict
attached to the order of trial; after which either party
may bring on the argument of the application, upon rea
sonable notice to the adverse party.
§ 1094. If no answer be made, the case must be heard
on the papers of the applicant. If the answer raises only
questions of law, or puts in issue immaterial statements,
not affecting the substantial rights of the parties, the
court must proceed to hear or fix a day for hearing the
argument
Papers of of
the the
applicant—see
case. [InIssued
effect July
on Affidavit,
1st, 1874.]sec. I086n.
§ 1095. If judgment be given for the applicant, he may
recover the damages which he has sustained, as found by
the jury, or as may be determined by the court or ref
erees, upon a reference to be ordered, together with costs;
and for such damages and costs an execution may issue ;
and a peremptory mandate must also be awarded without
delay.
Judgment in mandamus—extent of relief, 27 Cal. 655, and compare
sec. 580, and note: personal, when improper, see under Peremptory
Mandate, note infra.
Damages—sec. 580n.
Costs—sees. 1021 et seq.
Peremptory mandate—personal Judgment on, when improper, 62
Cal. 468.
§ 1096. The writ must be served in the same manner
as a summons in a civil action, except when otherwise
expressly directed by order of the court. Service upon a
majority of the members of any board or body, is service
upon the board or body, whether at the time of the service
the board or body was in session or not.
Service of summons—sec. 410, et seq.
§ 1097. "When a peremptory mandate has been issued
and directed to any inferior tribunal, corporation, board,
or person, if it appear to the court that any member of
such tribunal, corporation, or board, or such person upon
-whom the writ has been personally served, has, without
just excuse, refused or neglected to obey the same, the
court may, upon motion, impose a fine not exceeding one
thousand dollars. In case of persistence in a refusal of
obedience, the court may order the party to be impris
oned until the writ is obeyed, and may make any orders
necessary and proper for the complete enforcementof the
writ. [In effect July 1st, 1874.1
Officers subject to mandamus—seePERSONS, Official, sec. 1085n.
Attachment for non-compliance—when not issued, 1 Cal. 188.
Contempt—generally, sec. 1209 et seg.
§ 1102. The writ of prohibition is the counterpart of
the writ of mandate. It arrests the proceedings of any
tribunal, corporation, board,W person, when such pro
ceedings are without or in excess of the jurisdiction of
such tribunal, corporation, board, or person.
Writ,
Counterpart—53
generally—sec.
Cal. 289.
51n.
Mandate—sec. 1104 et seq.
Arrests proceedings—53 Cal. 292; but not legislation, 52 Cal. Ill: on
removal from office, 52 Cal. 622.
Judicial tribunals—alone subject to,52 Cal. Ill; 53 Cal. 289; People p.
Election Commra. March 23rd, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 245.
In excess of the jurisdiction—47 Cal. 81, 584; Bandy v. Kansome>
Jan. 19th, 1880, 4 Pac. C. L. J. 637; Cal. F. Co. v. Halsey, Mar. 15th, 1880,
6 Pac. C. L. J. 125; and compare Exceeded the Jurisdiction, sec.
1068f>.
§ 1103. It may be issued by any court except Police or
Justices' Courts, to an inferior tribunal or to a corporation,
board, or person, in all cases where there is not a plain,
speedy, and adequate remedy in the ordinary course of
law. It is issued upon affidavit, on the application of the
person beneficially interested.
Compare—notes to sees. 1085, 1086.
Affidavit, contents of—30 Cal. 244.
Inferior tribunal—62 Cal. Ill, 516.
§ 1104. The writ must be either alternative or peremp
tory. The alternative writ must state generally the alle
gation against the party to whom it is directed, and com
mand such party to desist or refrain from further pro
ceedings in the action or matter specified therein, until
the further order of the court from which it is issued, and
to show cause before such court, at a specified time and
place, why such party should not be absolutely restrained
from any further proceedings in such action or matter.
The peremptory writ must be in a similar form, except
.1
should
that thenot
words
be absolutely
requiring the
restrained,
party toetc.,
show
must
cause
be omitted,
why he •
and a return day inserted.
Compare—sec. 1087, and notes.
§ 1105. The provisions of the preceding chapter, ex
cept of the four first sections thereof, apply to this pro
ceeding.
§ 1108. Writs of review, mandate, and prohibition is
sued by the Supreme Court, or by a Superior Court, may,
in the discretion of the court issuing the writ, be made
returnable and a hearing thereon be had at any time.
[In effect April 15th, 188071
Powers of judges at chambers—sees. 165, 166.
§ 1109. Except as otherwise provided in this title, the
provisions of part two, [§ 307-1059] of this Code, are ap
plicable to, and constitute the rules of practice in the
proceedings mentioned in this title.
§ 1110. The provisions of part two, of this Code, rela
tive to new trials and appeals, [§ 656-663, and § 936-959]
except in so far as they are inconsistent with the provi
sions of this title, apply to the proceedings mentioned in
this title.
§ 1111. Any elector of a county, city and county, city,
or of any political subdivision of either, may contest the
right of any person declared elected to an office to be ex
ercised therein, for any of the following causes :
1. For malconduct on the part of the board of judges,
or any member thereof;
2. When the person whose right to the office is con
tested was not, at the time of the election, eligible to
such office;
3. When the person whose right is contested has given
to any elector or inspector, judge, or clerk of the election,
any bribe or reward, or has offered any such bribe or re
ward for the purpose of procuring his election, or has
committed any other offense against the elective fran
chise, denned in title four, part one, of the Penal Code;
4. On account of illegal votes. [Approved March 11th,
1870.]
Contesting elections—Generally, title constitutional, 13 Cal. 145:
construction
of election46laws,
31 Cal.
82: forms
aelection
special for,
case,not24 cov
Cal.
449:
locally
applicable,
Cal. 398:
county
seats,
ered,
30
Cal.
325;
24
Cal.
449:
requisites
of
election,
etc.,
28
Cal.
124.
Elector, 43Code,
Cal. sees.
229. 273,
Person
elected,occupied,
legislator,etc.
governor,
Political
288. declared
Office, illegally
sec. 803. see
Subdivision 2. Ineligibility, effect of, 13 CaL 145; 23 Cal. 315.
Subdivision 3. Bribery, etc.—27 Cal. 655.
Subdivision 4. Illegal, votes—14 Cal. 479; 28 Cal. 124; 34 Cal. 273.
§ 1112. No irregularity or improper conduct in the pro
ceedings of the judges, or any of them, is such malconduct as avoids an election, unless the irregularity or
improper conduct is such as to procure the person whose
right to the office is contested to be declared elected,
when he had not received the highest number of legal
votes.
Malconduct of judges—as ground of contest, sec. Ill, subd. 1 : Irreg
ularities, etc., must alter result, 12 Cal. 352; 31 Cal. 173; 34 Cal. 273, 635.
§ 1113. When any election held for an office exercised
in and for a county is contested on account of any malconduct on the part of the board of judges of any town
ship election, or any member thereof, the election cannot
be annulled and set aside upon any proof thereof, unless
the rejection of the vote of such township or townships
would change the result as to such office in the remaining
vote of the county.
Malconduct of judges—see sec. 1112ra. Township, or precinct, 20 Cal.
50; 31 Cal. 173; and see Voting Pkecinots, sec. 1116m.
§ 1114. Nothing in the fourth ground of contest; speci
fied in section eleven hundred and eleven, is to be so con
strued as to authorize an election to be set aside on ac
count of illegal votes, unless it appear that a number of
illegal votes has been given to the person whose right
to the office is contested, which, if taken from him,
would reduce the number of his legal votes below the
number of votes given to some other person for the same
office, after deducting therefrom the illegal votes which
may be shown to have been given to such other person.
Compare—irregularities, etc., must alter result, under Maloonduct off Judges, sec. I112n.
§ 1115. When an elector contests the right of any per
son declared elected to such office, he must, within forty
days after the return day of the election, file with the
county clerk a written statement, setting forth specific
ally:
1. The name of the party contesting such election, and
that he is an elector of the district, county, or township,
as the case may be, in which such election was held;
2. The name of the person whose right to the office is
contested;
3. The office;
Code Civ. Pkoo.—38.
4. The particular grounds of such contest.
Which statement must be verified by the affidavit of the
contesting party, that the matters and things therein con
tained are true.
Elector—43 Cal. 229.
Within forty days—31 CaL 261.
Statement of contestant—see sees. 1116, 1117; 30 Cal. 394; 43 CaL 229.
§ 1116. When the reception of illegal votes is alleged
as a cause of contest, it is sufficient to state generally that
in one or more specified voting precincts illegal votes were
given to the person whose election is contested, which, if
taken from him, will reduce the number of his legal votes
below the number of legal votes given to some other per
son for the same office ; but no testimony can be received
of any illegal votes, unless the party contesting such elec
tion deliver to the opposite party, at least three days be
fore such trial, a written list of the number of illegal
votes, and by whom given, which he intends to prove on
such trial ; and no testimony can be received of any ille
gal votes except such as are specified in such list, ph
effect April 15th, 1880.]
Three days before trial—list delivered, need of, 30 Cal. 393: compu
tation of time, sec. 12n; 51 CaL 514.
Voting precincts—townships, before amdt. 1880.
§ 1117. No statement of the grounds of contest will
be rejected, nor the proceedings dismissed by any court
for want of form, if the grounds of contest are alleged
with such certainty as will advise the defendant of the
particular proceeding or cause for which such election is
contested.
§ 1118. Upon the statement being filed, the county
clerk must inform the Superior Court of the county
thereof, which shall thereupon order a special session of
such court to be held at the court-room, on some day to be
named by it, not less than ten nor more than -twenty days
from the date of such order, to hear and determine such
contested election. [In effect April 15th, 1880.]
Special session—term, before 1S80, 21 Cal. 453, and see Tebjis, sec.
73n.
§ 1119. The clerk shall thereupon issue a citation for
the person, whose right to the office is contested, to ap
pear at the time and place specified in the order, which
citation must be delivered to the sheriff, and served either
upon the party in person, or, if he cannot be found, by
leaving a copy thereof at the house where he last resided,
at least five days before the time so specified. [In effect
April 15th, 1880.]
Citation—form immaterial, 30 Cal. 394.
§ 1120. The clerk must issue subpoenas for witnesses
at the request of either party, which must be served as
other subpoenas ; and the Superior Court shall have full
power to issue attachments to compel the attendance of
witnesses who have been subpoenaed to attend. [In effect
April 15th, 1880.]
Subpoenas—issuance, service, etc., sees. 1985-1987 ; also see sees. 19881990: disobedience, penalty, etc., sees. 1991-1992.
Compelling attendance of witnesses—sec. 1993 et seq.
§ 1121. The court must meet at the time and place
designated, to determine such contested election, and
shall have all the powers necessary to the determination
thereof. It may adjourn from day to day until such trial
is ended, and may also continue the trial, before its com
mencement, for any time not exceeding twenty days, for
good cause shown by either party upon affidavit, at the
costs of the party applying for such continuance.
Adjourn from day to day—discontinuance otherwise, 34 Cal. 329, 635.
Before its commencement—34 Cal. 332.
§ 1122. The pourt must be governed, in the trial and
determination of such contested election, by the rules of
law and evidence governing the determination of ques
tions of law and fact, so far as the same may be applica
ble; and may dismiss the proceedings if the statement of
the cause or causes of the contest is insufficient, or for
want of prosecution. After hearing the proofs and alle
gations of the parties, the court must pronounce judg
ment in the premises, either confirming or annulling and
setting aside such election.
Dismiss the proceedings—not discretionary, 15 Cal. 117.
After hearing the proofs, etc.—no default, judgment obtainable by
contestant, 34 Cal. 635; burden on contestant, 12 Cal. 352.
§ 1123. If in any such case it appears that another per
son than the one returned has the highest number of legal
votes, the court must declare such person elected.
§ 1124. Repealed April 15th, 1880.
§ 1125. If the proceedings are dismissed for insuffi
ciency, or want of prosecution, or the election is by the
court confirmed, judgment must be rendered against the
party contesting such election, for costs, in favor of the
party whose election was contested; but if the election is
annulled and set aside, judgment for costs must be ren
dered ajgainst the party whose election was contested, in
favor 01 the party contesting the same. Primarily, each
party is liable for the costs created by himself, to the offi
cers and witnesses entitled thereto, which may be col
lected in the same manner as similar costs are collected in
other cases. [In effect April 15th, 1880.]
Costs—In special proceedings, sees. 1022, subd. 4, 1024: generally, sec.
1021rt<ej.
§ 1126. Either party, aggrieved by the judgment of the
court, may appeal' therefrom to the Supreme Court, as in
other cases of appeal thereto from the Superior Court.
[In effect April 15th, 1880.]
Appeal in contested election cases—51 Cal. 82, 261.
Appeals to Supreme Court—sec. 963: appeals generally, sec. 936
tt teq.
New trial—24 Cal. 449, 457.
§ 1127. Whenever an election is annulled or set aside
by the judgment of the Superior Court, and no appeal has
been taken within ten days thereafter, the commission, if
any has issued, is void, and the office vacant. [In effect
April 15th, 1880.]
§ 1132. A judgment by confession may be entered
without action, either for money due or to become due,
or to secure any person against contingent liability on be
half of the defendant, or both, in the manner prescribed
by this chapter. Such judgment may be entered in any
court having jurisdiction for like amounts.
Judgment by confession—after action commenced, 44 Cal. 481:
statement for, sec. 1133 and note: attacking forfraud, sec. 1133n.
Any court having jurisdiction—8 Cal. 76; in Justice's Court,sec.
1133 and note.
Statement—signed bydefendant,20 Cal. 681; subd. 2, subject-matter
of indebtedness. 12 Cal. 143; 18 Cal. 576; 37 Cal. 328: justly due, etc., 28
Cal. 549; 37 Cal. 328.
Attacking for fraud — Judgment fraudulent, when, prima facie,
where statement lacks statutory fuliness, 6 Cal. 419; 12 Cal. 143: 18 Cal.
876; 37 Cal. 328: void for obstructing creditors. 6 Cal. 238; 13 Cal. 76; 20
Cal.
681. Proof,
6 Cal. 422;
12 Cal.
143; 19Cal.278; 20 6Cal.
681;
2713Cal.76:
Cal. 228;
44Cal.481.
Creditor's
rig/its,
376;preference
direct proceedings,
6 Cal.
238;attachment
37 Cal. 328.confers,
Debtor's Cal.
rights,
permitted, 19 Cal. 278: impeaching directly, 5 Cal. 513. Collateral im
peachment, 12 Cal. 128.
§ 1133. A statement in writing must be made, signed
by the defendant, and verified by his oath, to the follow
ing effect :
1. It must authorize the entry of judgment for a speci
fied sum ;
2. If it be for money due, or to become due, it must
state concisely the facts out of which it arose, and show
that the sum confessed therefore is justly due, or to become
due;
3. If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintifff
against a contingent liability, it must state concisely the
facts constituting the liability, and show that the sum
confessed therefore does not exceed the same.
§ 1134. The statement must be filed with the clerk of
the court in which the judgment is to be entered, who
must indorse upon it, and enter in the judgment book, a
judgment of such court for the amount confessed, with
ten dollars costs. The statement and affidavit, with the
judgment indorsed thereupon, becomes the judgment roll.
§ 1135. In a Justice's Court, where the court has au
thority to enter the judgment, the statement may be filed
with the justice, who must thereupon enter in his docket
a judgment of his court for the amount confessed, with
three dollars costs. If a transcript of such judgment be
filed with the county clerk, a copy of the statement must
be filed with it.
Authority of Justice's Court to enter—sees. 112, subd. 6, 889; ana
see 8 Cal. 76.
§ 1138. Parties to a question in difference, which
might be the subject of a civil action, may, without
action, agree upon a case containing the facts upon
which the controversy depends, and present a submission
of the same to any court which would have jurisdiction,
if an action had teen brought; but it must appear, by
affidavit, that the controversy is real, and the proceedings
in good faith, to determine the rights of the parties. The
court must thereupon hear and determine the case, and
render judgment thereon, as if an action were depending.
Submitting agreed case—22 Cal. 72; 30 Cal. 218; 41 Cal.60. Affida
vit, stipulation no substitute for, 20 Cal. 679. Judgment, basis of, 20 Cal.
72.
§ 1139. Judgment must be entered in the judgment
book as in other cases, but without costs for any proceed
ing prior to the trial. The case, the submission, and a
copy of the judgment, constitute the judgment roll.
Entry of judgment—sec. 664.
Judgment roll—sec. 670.
§ 1140. The judgment may be enforced in the same
manner as if it had been rendered in an action, and is in
the same manner subject to appeal.
Enforcement of judgment—sec. 684.
Appeals—sec. 936 et seg.
§ 1143. Any person confined in jail on an execution
issued on a judgment rendered in a civil action, ruust be
discharged therefrom upon the conditions in this chapter
specified.
§ 1144. Such person must cause a notice in writing to
be given to the plaintifff, his agent, or attorney, that at a
certain time and place he will apply to a judge of the
Superior Court of the county in which such person may
be confined, for the purpose of obtaining a discharge from
his imprisonment. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
Notices—sec. 1010 et seg.
§ 1145. Such notice must be served upon the plaint
iff, his agent or attorney, one day at least before the hear
ing of the application.
Service of notice—sec. 1015.
§ 1146. At the time and place specified in the notice,
such person must be taken before such judge, who must
examine him under oath concerning his estate and prop
erty and effects, and the disposal thereof, and his ability
to pay the judgment for which he is committed; and such
judge may also hear any other legal and pertinent evi
dence that may be produced by the debtor or the creditor.
§ 1147. The plaintifff in the action may, upon such ex
amination, propose to the prisoner any interrogatories
Eertinent to the inquiry; and they must, if required by
im, be proposed and answered in writing, and the an
swer must be signed and sworn to by the prisoner.
§ 1148. If, upon the examination, the judge is satisfied
that the prisoner i3 entitled to his discharge, he must ad
minister to him the following oath, to wit: "I,
,
do solemnly swear that I have not any estate, real or per
sonal, to the amount of fifty dollars, except such as is by
law exempted from being taken m execution; and that I
have not any other estate now conveyed or concealed, or
in any way disposed of, with design to secure the same
to my use, or to hinder, delay, or defraud my creditors :
soOrder
helpofmedischarge—appeal
God."
from, 35 Cat. 696.
§ 1149. After administering the oath, the judge must
issue an order that the prisoner be discharged from cus
tody, and the officer, upon the service of such order, must
discharge the prisoner forthwith, if he be imprisoned for
no other cause.
§ 1150. If such judge does not discharge the prisoner,
he may apply for his discharge at the end of every suc
ceeding ten days, in the same manner as above provided,
and the same proceedings must thereupon be had.
§ 1151. The prisoner, after being so discharged, is for
ever exempted from arrest or imprisonment for the same
debt, unless he be convicted of having willfully sworn
falsely upon his examination before the judge, or in tak
ing the oath before prescribed.
§ 1152. The judgment against any prisoner who is dis
charged remains in full force against any estate which
may then or at any time afterward belong to him, and the
plaintifff may take out a new execution against the goods
and estate of the prisoner, in like manner as if he had
never been committed.
§ 1153. The plaintifff in the action may at any time
order the prisoner to be discharged, and he is not there
after liable to imprisonment for the same cause of action.
§ 1154. Whenever a person is committed to jail on an
execution issued on a judgment recovered in a civil
action, the creditor, his agent or attorney, must advance
to the jailer, on such commitment, sufficient money for
the support of the prisoner for one week, and must make
the like advance for every successive week of his impris
onment, and in case of failure to do so, the jailer must
forthwith discharge such prisoner from custody ; and such
discharge has the same effect as if made by order of the
creditor
Advance to the jailer—credit permissible, 60 Cal. 306.
§ 1159. Every person is guilty of a forcible entry who
either—
1. By breaking opten doors, windows, or other parts of
a house, or by any kind of violence or circumstance of
terror, enters upon or into any real property ; or,
2. Who, after entering peaceably upon real property,
turns out by force, threats, or menacing conduct, the
party in possession.
Forcible entry and detainer—Scope ofstatute, Code, reconstruction
of,49 Cal. 273: summary remedy, 5 Cal. 113; 12 Cal. 500: grounds of
action, 9 Cai. 47: trespass not enough, 5 Cal. 156: 29 Cal. 214: force as
element of, 9 Cal. 47, and see note infra : title not triable, see sec. H72» :
proof required, sec. 1172: possession, sec. 1172n.
Forcible entry—requisites, 23 Cal. 379; 28 Cal. 527; 29 Cal. 214: parties
flalntlff, sec. 1165, note: parties defendant, sees. 1164 and note, 1165:
orce as element, see infra.
Subdivision 1. Violence, etc.—see Force, in entry, note infra.
5 Cal.
23 152:
Cal. in375;ouster,
25 Cal.5 Cal.
54;
31m Subdivision
Cal. 122; 32 Cal.2.340;Force-in
38 Cal. 693;entry,
39 Cal.
23; 4263:Cal.
Party in possession—see Possession, sec. 1172n.
§ 1160. Every person is guilty of a forcible detainer
who either—
1. By force, or by menaces and threats of violence, un
lawfully holds and keeps the possession of any real prop
erty, whether the same was acquired peaceably or other
wise; or,
2. Who, in the night time, or during the absence of the,
occupant of any lands, unlawfully enters upon real prop
erty, and who, after demand made for the surrender
thereof, for the period of five days refuses to surrender
the same to such former occupant.
The occupant of real property, within the meaning of
this subdivision, is one who, within five days preceding
such unlawful entry, was in the peaceable and undis
turbed possession of such lands.
Forcible detainer—what constitutes, 24 Cal. 317; 29 Cal. 577 ; 45 Cal.
597 ; 50 Cal. 315.
ELEMENTS OF FORCIBLE DETAINER.
Subdivision 1. Force—menaces, threats in entry and ouster, see
sec. 1159n: in detainer, 9 Cat 46; 24 Cal. 317; 28 Cal. 527; 29 Cal. 677; 31
After demand—9Cal.4!i;i24 CalJ317; 37 Cal. 154; 38Cal.676. Occupant,
possession of—see Possession, sec. 1172n; 38 Cal. 410; 41 Cal. 630; 51
Cal. 532, 541.
§ 1161. A tenant of real property, for a term less than
life, is guilty of unlawful detainer—
1. When he continues in possession, in person or by
subtenant, of the property, or any part thereof, after the
expiration of the term for which it is let to him, without
the permission of his landlord, or the successor in estate oj
his landlord, if any there be ; but in case of a tenancy at
will, it must first be terminated by notice, as prescribed
in the Civil Code.
2. Where he continues in possession, in person or by
subtenant, without permission of his landlord, or the suc
cessor in estate of his landlord, if any there be, after default
in the payment of rent, pursuant to the lease or agreement
under which the property is held, and three days' notice,
in writing, requiring its payment, stating the amount
which is due, or possession of the property, shall have
been served upon him, and if there be a subtenant in
CODE CIV. PlVOC-34.
actual occupation of the premises, also upon such sub
tenant. Such notice may be served at any time within
one year after the rent becomes due. In all cases of ten
ancy upon agricultural lands, where the tenant has held
over and retained possession for more than sixty days
after the expiration of his term without any demand of
possession or notice to quit by the landlord, or the succes
sor in estate of his landlord, if any there be, he shall be
deemed to be holding hy permission of the landlord, or
the successor in estate of his landlord, if any there be, and
shall he entitled to hold under the terms of the lease for
another full year, and shall not be guilty of an unlawful
detainer during said year, and such holding over for the
period aforesaid shall be taken and construed as a consent
on the part of a tenant to hold for another year.
3. When he continues in possession, in person or by
subtenant, after a neglect or failure to perform other con
ditions or covenants of the lease or agreement under
which the property is held, including any covenant not to
assign or sublet, than the one for the payment of rent, and
three days' notice, in writing, requiring the performance
of such conditions or covenants, or the possession of the
property, shall have been served upon him, and if there
be a subtenant in actual occupation of the premises, also
upon such subtenant. Within three days after the ser
vice of the notice, the tenant, or any subtenant in actual
occupation of the premises, or any mortgagee of the term,
or other person interested in its continuance, may perform
the conditions or covenants of the lease, or pay the stip
ulated rent, as the case may be, and thereby save the
lease from forfeiture;* [provided, if the covenants and con
ditions of lease, violated by the lessee, cannot afterward
be performed, then no notice, as last prescribed herein;
need be given to said lessee or his subtenant demanding
the performance of the violated covenant or conditions^
the lease.] A tenant may take proceedings, similar to
those prescribed in this chapter, to obtain possession of
the premises let to an under-tenant, in case of his unlaw
ful detention of the premises underlet to him.
4. Any tenant or subtenant, assigning or subletting, or
*
bills amending
§ 1161,
Senate
bills 442
passed
the Two
twenty-second
session,
botli
of which
wereandto665,
takowere
effect
immeat
diately. They were both approved on the same day, April 1st, 1878.
"We
have
the incorporating
two laws, italicizing
the words
of bill
No.
442 not
in consolidated
bill No. 665, and
in CbracketsJ
the only
words
of
bill
No.
665
not
in
No.
442.
Heading
tlio
section
as
printed,
and
omitting
withinthe
theItalics
brackets,
will give the
the brackets
law as enacted
by
bill No. 442.words
Omitting
and including
will give
that of blU No. 665.
committing waste upon the demised premises, contrary to the
covenants of his lease, thereby terminates the lease, and the
landlord, or his successor in estate, shall, upon service of three
days' notice to quit, upon the person or persons in possession,
be entitled to restitution of possession of such demised prem
ises under the provisions of this act. [Approved April 1st,
1878. In effect immediately.]
Subdivision 1. Holding over — Generally, essential element, 4
Tenancy
will,tenant
noticeatterminating,
Civil
793;
44 Cal. 236; 51 Cal. 181.
Subdivision 2. Non-payment of rent—demand, 3 Cal. 273; 16 Cal.
88; 40 Cal. 384: tender, 41 Cal. 360: forfeiture. 3 Cal. 273; 16 Cal. 88; 25
Cal. 394 ; 41 Cal. 432; 50 Cal. 3: subtenant, 23 Cal. 227.
Subdivisions 3 and 4. Breach of other covenants—form of no
tice, 52 Cal. 471.
§ 1162. The notices required by the preceding section
may be served, either :
1. By delivering a copy to the tenant personally ; or,
2. It he be absent from his place of residence, and from
his usual place of business, by leaving a copy with some
person of suitable age and discretion at either place, and
sending a copy through the mail addressed to the tenant
at his place of residence ; or,
3. It such place of residence and business cannot be
ascertained, or a person of suitable age or discretion there
cannot be found, then by affixing a copy in a conspicuous
place on the property, and also delivering a copy to a per
son there residing, if such person can be found ; and also
sending a copy through the mail addressed to the tenant
at the place where the property is situated. Service upon
a subtenant may be made in ' the same manner. [In
effect July 1st, 1874.]
§ 1163. The Superior Court of the county in which the
property, or some part of it, is situated, shall have juris
diction of proceedings under this chapter; provided, that
Justices' Courts, within their respective townships, or
cities, or cities and counties, shall have concurrent juris
diction with the Superior Courts in cases of forcible entry
and detainer, -when the rental value does not exceed
twenty-five dollars per month, and when the whole
amount of damages claimed does not exceed two hund
red dollars. [In effect March 9th, 1880.]
Superior Court of county—former jurisdiction of County Court,
held constitutional, 28 Cal. 118; 30 Cal. 578; 31 Cal. 122; 42 CaL 324.
Concurrent jurisdiction of Justices' Court—sec. 113, subd. 1, and
notes: jurisdiction under former statute, before Code, 2 Cal. 358; 6 Cal.
63, 161, 447; 20 Cal. 282; 23 Cal. 375.
§ 1164. No person other than the tenant of the prem
ises, and subtenant, if there be one, in the actual occu
pation of the premises, need be made parties defendant
in the proceeding, nor shall any proceeding abate, nor
the plaintifff be nonsuited for the non-joinder of any per
sons who might have been made parties defendant ; Dut
: when it appears that any of the parties served with proc
ess or appearing in the proceeding are guilty of the of
fense charged, judgment must be rendered against him.
In case a married woman be a tenant or a subtenant, her
coverture shall constitute no defense; but in case her
husband be not joined, or unless she be doing business as
a sole trader, an execution issued upon a personal judg
ment against her can only be enforced against property
on the premises at the commencement of the action. [In
effect July 1st, 1874.]
Parties defendant — 19 Cal. 374; 20 Cal. 48; 29 Cal. 214: married
woman,
Parties20plaintifff—and
Cal. 282; 39 Cal.generally,
287.
sec. 1165, and note.
§ 1165. Except as provided in the preceding section,
the provisions of part two of this Code, relating to parties
to civil actions, are applicable to this proceeding.
Parties plaintifff—5 Cal. 113; 8 Cal. 499; 27 Cal. 502; 29 Cal. 168; 31 Cal.
333 ; 36 Cal. 303: agents as, 16 Cal. 107; 20 Cal. 45: cotenantsas, 3 Cal. 59:
45 Cal. 495: generally, see Possession, sec. 1172n.
Parties defendant—sec. 1164, and note.
§ 1166. The plaintifff, in his complaint, which shall be
in writing, must set forth the facts on which he seeks to
recover, and describe the premises with reasonable cer
tainty, and may set forth therein any circumstances of
fraud, force, or violence which may have accompanied
the alleged forcible entry, or forcible or unlawful de
tainer, and claim damages therefore. In case the unlaw
ful detainer charged be after default in the payment of
rent, the complaint must state the amount of such rent.
Upon filing the complaint, a summons must be issued
thereon as in other cases, returnable at a day designated
therein, which shall not be less than three days nor more
than twelve days from its date, except in cases when the
publication of the summons is necessary, in which case
the court, or a judge or justice thereof^may order that the
summons be made returnable at such time as may be
deemed proper, and the summons shall specify the return
day so fixed. [In effect March 9th, 1880.]
Complaint, sufficiency of—!) 
1159, subd.2n,aadlI60,subd.ln. Damages, see. 1174; 17Cal.667; 21 Cal.
58. Verification, sec. 1175. Generally, see sec. 426, and notes.
Summons—sec. 1167.'
g 1167. The summons must state the parties to the
proceeding, the court in which the same is brought, the
nature of the action, in concise terms, and the relief
sought, and also the return day, and must notify the de
fendant to appear and answer within the time designated,
or tbat the relief sought will be taken against him. The
summons must be directed to the defendant, and be
served at least two days before the return day designated
therein, and must be served and returned in the same
manner as summons in civil actions is served and re
turned. Upon the return of any summons issued under
this chapter, where the same has not, for any reason, been
served, or not served in time, the plaintifff may have a
new summons issued, the same as if no previous sum
mons bad been issued. [In effect March 9th, 1880.]
Contents of summons—if defective, how waived, 41 Cal. 242.
Service of summons—herein, before Code, 50 Cal. 185: in civil
actions, sec. 406 et seq.
§ 1168. If the complaint presented establishes, to the
satisfaction of the judge or justice, fraud, force, or vio
lence, in the entry or detainer, and that the possession
held is unlawful, he may make an order for the arrest of
the defendant. [In effect March 9th, 1880.]
Arrest—generally, sec. 478 et seq.
§ 1169. If, at the time appointed, the defendant do not
appear and defend, the court must enter his default, and
render judgment in favor of the plaintifff, as prayed for in
the complaint.
Judgment by default—generally, sec. 585.
§ 1170. On or before the day fixed for his appearance,
the defendant may appear and answer or demur.
Appearance—generally, sec. 1014, and notes.
Answer—Scope of, sec. 1172: Warburton r. Doble, 38 Cal. 619. At
waiver, of defect in summons, 41 Cal. 242. Insufficient denial, 28 CaL 170;
31 Cal. 467; 38 Cal. 619: objection too late, Spiers v. Duane, Feb. 16th.
1SS0, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 10. Verification, sec. 1175. " Or demur," 38 CaL 540.
Generally, sec. 437, and^otes.
§ 1171. Whenever an issue of fact is presented by the
pleadings, it must be tried by a jury, unless such jury be
waived as in other cases. The jury shall be formed in
the same manner as other trial juries in the Court in
which the action is pending. [In effect March 9th, 1880.]
631.Trial byjury—sees. 600-628: issue of fact, sec. 590 etseq.: •waiver.sec
Justices' Courts—trials in, sees. 878-887.
Formation of the jury—sees. 600-604.
§ 1172. On the trial of any proceeding for any forcible
entry or forcible detainer, the plaintifff shall only be re
quired to show, in addition to the forcible entry or forci
ble detainer complained of, that he was peaceably in the
actual possession at the time of the forcible entry, or was
entitled to the possession at the time of the forcible de
tainer. The defendant may show in his defense, that he
or his ancestors, or those whose interest in such premises
he claims, have been in the quiet possession thereof for
the space of one whole year together next before the
commencement of the proceedings, and that his interest
therein is not then ended or determined ; and such show
ing is a bar to the proceedings.
Title not triable—12 Cal. 500; 23 Cal. 381; 29 Cal. 170; 37 CaL 154; 40
CaL 250; 46 Cal. 64; but see 38 Cal. 619.
Possession, by plaintifff—Showing of, necessary, 5 Cal. 113; 27 Cal.
502

§ 1173. When, upon the trial of any proceeding under
this chapter, it appears from the evidence that the defend
ant has been guilty of either a forcible entry or a forcible
detainer, and other than the offense charged in the com
plaint, the judge must order that such complaint he forth
with amended to conform to such proofs. Such amend
ment must be without any imposition of terms. No
continuance must be permitted upon account of such
amendment, unless the defendant, by affidavit filed,
shows to the satisfaction of the court good cause there
for.
Amendment—of complaint herein, 32 Cal. 340; 38Cal.410; generally,
sec. 473»i
Continuance—generally, sec. 595 and notes.
§ 1174, If, upon the trial, the verdict of the jury, or,
if the case be tried without a jury,'the finding of the court
be in favor of the plaintifff and against the defendant,
judgment shall be entered for the restitution of the prem
ises ; and if the proceeding be for an unlawful detainer
after neglect or failure to perform the conditions or cove
nants of the lease or agreement under Which the property
is held, or after default in the payment of rent, the judg
ment shall also declare the forfeiture of such lease or
agreement. The jury, or the court, if the proceeding be
tried without a jury, shall also assess the damages occa
sioned to the plaintifff by any forcible entry, or by any
forcible or unlawful detainer, alleged in the complaint
and proved on the trial, and find the amount of any rent
due, if the alleged unlawful detainer be after default in
the payment of rent; and the judgment shall be rendered
against the defendant guilty of the forcible entry, or forci
ble or unlawful detainer, for three times the amount of
the damages thus assessed, and of the rent found due.
When the proceeding is for an unlawful detainer after de
fault in the payment of the rent, and the lease or agree
ment under which the rent is payable has not by its terms
expired, execution upon the judgment shall not be issued
until the expiration of five days after the entry of the
judgment, within which time the tenant, or any subtenant,
or any mortgagee of the term, or other party interested in
its continuance, may pay into court, for the landlord, the
amount found due as rent, with interest thereon, and the
amount of the damages found by the jury or the court for
the unlawful detainer, and the costs of the proceeding,
and thereupon the judgment shall be satisfied and the
tenant be restored to his estate; but if payment, as here
provided, be not made within the five days, the judgment
may be enforced for its full amount, and for the posses
sion of the premises. In all other cases the judgment may
beJudgment—scope
Verdict
enforced
of theimmediately.
jury—what
of, 6 Cal. it148.
decides,
[In effect
10 Cal.July
211 j 361st,
Cal.1874.]
Restitution of the premises—enforcement of writ, etc., sec. G84n; 6
CaL 148; 10 CaL 211; 19 Cat 174; 33 CaL 402; 39 CaL 287 ; 46 Cal. 270, 279.
Forfeiture—relief from, sec. 1179.
Damages—Extent of, 17 Cal. 566 ; 28 Cal.S27; 31 Cal. 467; 33 Cal. 401;
38
Rent due,sec.amount

§ 1175. The complaint and answer must be verified.
Verification of pleadings—sec. 446 and notes.
§ 1176. An appeal taken by the defendant shall not
stay proceedings upon the judgment, unless th» judge or
justice before whom the same was rendered so directs.
[In effect March 9th, 1880.]
§ 1177. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter,
the provisions of part two, of this Code, are applicable to,
and constitute the rules of practice in the proceedings
mentioned
Appeal as stay—generally,
in this chapter.
sees. 946, 949, and notes.
§ 1178. The provisions of part two, of this Code, rela
tive to new trials and appeals, except in so far"as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter, apply to
the proceedings mentioned in this chapter.
§ 1179. The court may relieve a tenant against a for
feiture of a lease, and restore him to his former estate, in
case of hardship, where application for such relief is
made within thirty days alter the forfeiture is declared
by the judgment of the court, as provided in section one
thousand one hundred and seventy-four. The application
may be made by a tenant or subtenant, or a mortgagee of
the term, or any person interested in the continuance of
the term. It must be made upon petition, setting forth
the facts upon which the relief is sought, and be verified
by the applicant. Notice of the application, with a copy
of the petition, must be served on the plaintifff in the
judgment, who may appear and contest the application.
In no case shall the application be granted except on con
dition that full payment of rent due, or full performance
of conditions or covenants stipulated, so far as the same
is practicable, be made. [In effect March 9th, 1880.]
§ 1180. A lien is a charge imposed upon specific prop
erty, by which it is made security for the performance of
anLien,
act. definition
Priority
of liens—Civil
of—Civil
Code,
Code,
sec.sec.
2897.2872.
§ 1183. Mechanics, material-men, artisans, architects,
and laborers of every class performing labor upon or fur
nishing material to be used in the construction, alteration,
or repair of any mining claim, building, wharf, bridge,
ditch, flume, aqueduct, tunnel, fence, machinery, railroad,
wagon road, or other structure, shall have a lien upon the
property upon which they have bestowed labor or fur
nished material for the value of such labor done and ma
terial furnished. This lien shall not be affected by the
fact that no money is due, or to become due, on any con
tract made by the owner with any other party. [In effect
April 15th, 1880.]
3VTechanlcs' lien law—constitutional provision for, see Const. Cal.
art- previously,
20, sec. 15: previously
held construed,
constitutional,
Cal. 2615;
175,
•78:
statute strictly
1 Cal.« 183;
Cal.4890;Cal.5 Cal.
240 ; 16 Cal. 127 ; 29 Cal. 283, and see Original Contract, see. 1193n.
AiXechanics' lien—nature of, 7 Cal. 889 : amount of, before amdt. 1880,
2T Cal. 588; 29 Cal. 283; 36 Cal. 293, and see Original Contract, sec.
1193a.
P*ersons entitled to lien on property—parties performing labor,
sec. 1184; 40 Cal. 185: parties furnishing material, 2 Cal. 90, 489; 3 CaL
64; SCal. 240 ; 23 Cal. 208; 48 Cal. 175: generally, 2 Cal. 489; 6 Cal. 495,
ancl see sec. 1194.
Alteration—or repair, 21 Cal. 80; 49 Cal. 109.
Agent of owner—constructive, before amdt. 1880, 49 Cal. 187; Hoop
er v. flood, Feb.28th, 1880, 6 Pac. C. L. J. 30.
Xiien not affected—though nothing due on original contract, amdt.
1880 ; previously held otherwise, see Original contract, sec. 1193n.
§ 1184. Any person who, at the request of the owner
of any lot in any incorporated city or town, grades, fills
^in or otherwise improves the same, or the street in front
of or adjoining the same, has a lien upon such lot for his
work done and materials furnished.
§ 1185. The land upon which any building, improve
ment, or structure is constructed, together with a con
venient space about the same, or so much as may be
required for the convenient use and occupation thereof, to
be determined by the court on rendering judgment, is
also subject to the lien, if at the commencement of the
work, or of the furnishing of the materials for the same,
the land belonged to the person who caused said building,
improvement, or structure to be constructed, altered or
repaired; but if such person owned less than a fee simple
estate in such land, then only his interest therein is sub
ject to such lien. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Convenient space—23 Cal. 208: determined by the court, Green v.
Chandler, April 22nd, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 387.
) CaL 336.
§ 1186. The liens provided for in this chapter are pre
ferred to any lien, mortgage, or other encumbrance which
may have attached subsequent to the time when the
building, improvement, or structure was commenced,
work done, or materials were commenced to be furnished ;
also, to any lien, mortgage, or other encumbrance of
which the lien-holder had no notice, and which was unre
corded at the time the building, improvement, or struct
ure was commenced, work done, or the materials were
commenced to be furnished.
Subsequent encumbrance—4 Cal. 233; 6 Cal. 402; 7 Cal. 576; 9 CaL
119; 10 CaL 547; 13 Cal. 54; 14 Cal. 247; 18 Cal. 370; 39 Cal. 116.
Commencement of work, etc 7 CaL 358, 575; 13 Cal. 54; 23 Cal. 20?,
522; 44Cal.519.
§ 1187. Every original contractor, within sixty days
after the completion of his contract, and every person,
save the original contractor, claiming the benefit of this
chapter, must, within thirty days after the completion of
any building, improvement, or structure, or after the
completion of the alteration or repair thereof, or the per
formance of any labor in a mining claim, file for record
with the county recorder of the county in which such
property, or some part thereof, is situated, a claim con
taining a statement of his demand, after deducting all
just credits and offsets, with the name of the owner or
reputed owner, if known, and also the name of the per
son by whom he was employed, or to whom he furnished
the materials, with a statement of the terms, time given,
and conditions of his contract, and also a description of
the property to be charged with the lien, sufficient for
identification, which claim must be verified by the oath
of himself, or of some other person. [In effect May 29th.
1874.]
Strict construction—29 Cal. 283 : 45 Cal. 262; 46 Cal. 637; Hooper c.
Flood, Feb. 28th, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 30.
Filling claim for record—1 Cal. 183 : not successive liens, 44 CaL 18.
Contents
of claim—Statement
demand,too 11much,
44 Cal.
519:140;
on
several
structures,
see. 1188: Itemsofunnecessary,

1880,
L. J. 336.
30. Nameof
Cal.208v.; Flood,
45 Cal.Feb.
262;
46 Cal.5 Pac.
637 ; C.
4!) Cal.
Terms ofemployer,
contract, etc.,
etc.. '1%Hooper
28th, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 30. Description of theproperty, 2 Cal.60; 8 Cal.
344; 15 CaL 507 ; 23 Cal. 208.
Verification of claim—sec. 446; 43 Cal. 515.
§ 1188. In every case in which one claim is filed
against two or more buildings, mining claims, or other im
provements owned by the same person, the person filing
such claim must, at the same time, designate the amount
due to him on each of such buildings, mining claims, or
other improvements, otherwise the lien of such claim is
postponed to other liens. The lien of such claimant does
not extend beyond the amount designated, as against
other creditors having liens by judgment, mortgage, or
otherwise, upon either of such buildings or otherimprove
ments, or upon the land upon which the same are situated.
Decree—23 Cal. 208.
§ 1189. The recorder must record the claim in a book
kept by him for that purpose, which record must be in
dexed as deeds and other conveyances are required bv
law to be indexed, and for which he may receive the same
fees as are allowed by law for recording deeds and other
instruments.
§ 1190. No lien provided for in this chapter binds any
building, mining claim, improvement, or structure, for a
longer period than ninety days after the same has been
filed, unless proceedings be commenced in a proper court
within that time to enforce the same; or, if a credit be
given, then ninety days after the expiration of such
credit; but no lien continues in force for a longer time
than two years from the time the work is completed, by
any agreement to give credit.
Ninety days—10 Cal. 374.
Oonrt proceedings commenced—personal action, sec. 1197: parties
10 Cal. 547 ; 45 Cal. 262: intervention, sec. 387; 14 Cal. 127, 165.
§ 1191. If service of summons be made by publication,
the time of publication, where the defendant resides out
of or is absent from the State, or for any other cause can
not be served personally, need be but once a week for
four successive weeks.
Service of summons by publication—sees. 412, 413.
§ 1192. Every building or other improvement men
tioned in section one thousand one hundred and eightythree of this Code, constructed upon any lands with the
knowledge of the owner, or the person having or claiming
any interest therein, shall be held to have been constructed
at the instance of such owner or person having or claiming
any interest therein,' and the interest owned or claimed
shallbesubject to any lien filed in accordance with the pro
visions of this chapter, unless such owner or person having
or claiming an interest therein shall, within three days
after he shall have obtained knowledge of the construc
tion, alteration, or repair, or the intended construction,
alteration, or repair, give notice that he will not be re
sponsible for the same, by posting a notice in writing to
the effect, in some conspicuous place upon said land, or
upon the building or other improvement situated thereon.
[In effect May 29th, 1874.]
Construction of section—41 Cal. 583; 49 Cal. 336; 51 Cal. 423.
Constructive, instance of owner—41 Cal. 583; 49.Cal. 109.
§ 1193. The contractor shall be entitled to recover
upon a lien filed by him only such amount as may be due
to him according to the terms of his contract, after de
ducting all claims of other parties for work done and
materials furnished, as aforesaid; and in all cases where
Code Civ. Proc—35.
a lien shall be filed, under tins chapter, for work done or
materials furnished to any contractor, he shall defend
any action brought thereupon at his own expense; and
during the pendency of such action, the owner may with
hold from the contractor the amount of money for which
lien is filed; and in case of judgment against the owner
or his property, upon the lien, the said owner shall be en
titled to deduct from any amount due or to become due
by him to the contractor, the amount of such judgment
and costs, and if the amount of such judgment and costs
shall exceed the amount due by him to the contractor, or
if the owner shall have settled with the contractor in full,
he shall be entitled to recover back from the contractor
any amount so paid by him, the said owner, in excess of
the contract price, and for which the contractor was orig
inally the party liable. [In effect May 29th, 1874.]
Original contract—Before amdt. 1880: controls liens of contractors'
employees, 22 Cal. 866; 27 Cal. 688; 36Cal. 293; 38Cal. 356: and balance
duo
on, limits
theirMarch
Hens, 1615th,
Cal.1880,
127;5 31Pac.
Cal.C.L.J.
233 ; 49149:
Cal.where
185; 51abandon
Cal. 423;
Dlngley
r. Greene,
ment by contractor, 31 Cal. 233; 36 Cal. 293; 38 Cal. 356; 48 Cal. 478: own
er's defenses, 29 Cal. 283; 48 Cal. 478: release of contractors' surety, 49
Cal. 131 : under amdt. 1880, see sec. 1183.
§ 1194. In every case in which different liens are as
serted against any property, the court in the judgment
must declare the rank 01 each lien or class of liens, which
shall be in the following order, viz : 1st. All persons other
' than the original contractors and subcontractors; 2nd.
The subcontractors ; 3rd. The original contractors. And
the proceeds of the sale of the property must be applied
to each lien or clas3 of liens in the order of its rank; and
whenever, on the sale of the property subject to the lien,
there is a deficiency of proceeds, judgment may be dock
eted for the deficiency in like manner and with like effect
as in actions for the foreclosure of mortgages. [In effect
May 29th, 1874.]
Preference—from priority, 18 Cal. 370.
Classes of liens—Generally, G Cal. 295. Contractor, 7 Cal. 675: 27 Cal.
588. Subcontractor, 7 Cal. 358; 16 Cal. 126; 29 Cal. 283; 36 Cal. 623. Material-man, see contractor, subcontractor, and 3 Cal. 64; 5Cal.240; 16CaL
126: 21 Cal. 80; 23 Cal. 208; 29CaL283 ; 31 Cal. 233; 33 Cal. 497; 44 Cal. 519.
Laborers, 27 Cal. 588; 33 Cal. 497.
Judgment for deficiency—44 CaL 509; 49 Cal. 336: as In foreclosure
of mortgages, sec."726n.
§ 1195. Any number of persons claiming liens may
join in the same action, and when separate actions are
commenced, the court may consolidate them. The court
may also allow as part of the costs, the monies paid for
filing and recording the lien, and reasonable attorney's
fee in the District and Supreme Courts. [In effect May
29th, 1874.]
Join in the same action—33 Cal. 497.
Consolidation of actions—generally, sec. 1048.
District Courts—see superseded courts, sec. 76n.
§ 1196. Whenever materials shall have been furnished
for use in the construction, alteration, or repair, of any
building or other improvement, such materials shall not
be subject to attachment, execution, or other legal proc
ess, to enforce any debt due by the purchaser of such
materials, except a debt due for the purchase-money
thereof, so long as in good faith the same are about to be
applied to the construction, alteration, or repair of such
building, mining claim, or other improvement. [In effect
May 29th, 1874.]
§ 1197. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be con
strued to impair or affect the right of any person to whom
any debt may be due for work done or materials furnished
to maintain a personal action to recover such debt against
the person liable therefore. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Personal action—attachment In, cumulative remedy, 16 Cal. 140.
§ 1198. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter,
the provisions of part two of this Code are applicable to
and constitute the rules of practice in the proceedings
mentioned in this chapter.
§ 1199- The provisions of part two of this Code relative
to new trials and appeals, except in so far as they are in
consistent with the provisions of this chapter, apply to
the proceedings mentioned in this chapter.
§ 1204. In all assignments of property, made by any
person to trustees or assignees, on account of the inabil
ity of the person, at the time of the assignment, to pay
his debts, or in proceedings in insolvency, the wages of
the miners, mechanics, salesmen, servants, clerks, or
laborers employed by such person, to the amount of one
hundred dollars each, and for services rendered within
sixty days previously, are preferred claims, and must be
paid by such trustees or assignees before any other cred
itor or creditors of the assignor. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Assignments for benefit of creditors—Civil Code, sees. 3449, 3473.
Proceedings in insolvency—see sec. 1822.
§ 1205. In case of the death of any employer, the
wages of each miner, mechanic, salesman, clerk, servant,
and laborer, for services rendered within the sixty days
next preceding the death of the employer, not exceeding
one hundred dollars, rank in priority next after the
funeral expenses, expenses of the last sickness, the
charges and expenses of administering upon the estate,
and the allowance to the widow and infant children, and
must be paid before other claims against the estate of the
deceased person. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Estate of deceased persons—payment of debts, generally, sec. 1643
et teq.
§ 1206. In cases of executions, attachments, and writs
of a similar nature, issued against any person, except for
claims for labor done, any miners, mechanics, salesmen,
servants, clerks, and laborers, who have claims against
the defendant for labor done, may give notice of their
claims, and the amount thereof, sworn to by the person
making the claim, to the creditor and the officer execut
ing either of such writs, at any Time before the actual sale
of property levied on ; and, unless such claim is disputed
by the debtor or a creditor, such officer must pay to such
person, out of the proceeds of the sale, the amount each
is entitled to receive for services rendered within the sixty
days next preceding the levy of the writ, not exceeding
one hundred dollars. If any or all of the claims so pre
sented, and claiming preference under this section, are
disputed by either the debtor or a creditor, the person
presenting the same must commence an action within ten
days for the recovery thereof, and must prosecute his
action with due diligence, or be forever barred from any
claim of priority' of payment thereof; and the officer shall
retain possession of so much of the proceeds of the sale
as may be necessary to satisfy such claim until the de
termination of such action; and in case judgment be had
for the claim, or any part thereof, carrying costs, the costs
taxable therein shall likewise be a preferred claim, with
the same rank as the original claim. [In effect July 1st,
1874.]
Execution—sec. 684n : attachment, sees. 937-559.
Action to enforce lien—Id Justices' Court, sec. 113, suM. 2.
§ 1209. The following acts or omissions, in respect to
a court of justice, or proceedings therein, are contempts
of the authority of the court :
1. Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior
toward the judge while holding the court, tending to in
terrupt the due course of a trial or other judicial proceed
ing;
2. A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct, or violent
disturbance, tending to interrupt the due course of a trial
or other judicial proceeding;
3. Misbehavior in office, or other willful neglect or vio
lation of duty by an attorney, counsel, clerk, sheriff, cor
oner, or other person appointed or elected to perform a
judicial or ministerial service;
4. Deceit or abuse of the process or proceedings of the
court by a party to an action or special proceeding ;
5. Disobedience of any lawful judgment, order, or proc
ess of the court;
6. Assuming to be an officer, attorney, counsel of a
court, and acting as such without authority ;
7. Kescuing any person or property, in the custodv
of an officer by virtue of au order or process of such
court;
8. Unlawfully detaining a witness or party to an action
while going to, remaining at, or returning from, the court
where the action is on the calendar for trial ;
9. Any other unlawful interference with the process or
proceedings of a court;
10. Disobedience of a subpoena duly served, or refusing
to be sworn or answer as a witness;
11. When summoned as a juror in a court, neglecting to
attend or serve as such, or improperly conversing with a
party to an action to be tried at such court, or with any
other person, in relation to the merits of such action, or
receiving a communication from a party or other person
in respect to it, without immediately disclosing the same
to the court;
12. Disobedience, by an inferior tribunal, magistrate, or
officer, of the lawful judgment, order or process of a
superior court, or proceeding in an action or special pro
ceeding contrary to law, after such action or special pro
ceeding is removed from the jurisdiction of such inferior
tribunal, magistrate, or officer. Disobedience of the law
ful orders or process of a judicial officer is also a contempt
of the authority of such officer.
Contempt—statute restrictive, 42 Cal. 412: 44 Cal. 475: powers of
courts, sees. 128, 177, 178 : in Justices' Courts, sees. 906-910.
Subdivision 3. Misbehavior of attorney—sec. 287 et seq.
Subdivision 5. Disobedience of lawful judgment or orderjurisdiction
as test,
§ 1210. Every person dispossessed or ejected from, or
out of, any real property, by the judgment or process of
any court of competent jurisdiction, and who, not having
right so to do, re-enters into or upon, or takes possession
of? any such real property, or induces or procures any per
son not having a right so to do, or aids or abets him
therein, is guilty of a contempt of the court by which
such judgment was rendered, or from which such process
issued/ Upon a conviction for such contempt, the court
or justice of the peace must immediately issue an alias
process, directed to the proper officer, and requiring him
to restore the party entitled to the possession of such
property, under the original judgment or process, to such
possession.
Re-entry after dispossession—double purpose of section.
§ 1211. When a contempt is committed in the imme
diate view and presence of the court, or judge at cham
bers, it may be punished summarily ; for which an order
must be made, reciting the facts as occurring in such im
mediate view and presence, adjudging that the person
proceeded against is thereby guilty of a contempt, and
that he be punished as therein prescribed. When the con
tempt is not committed in the immediate view and pres
ence of the court, or judge at chambers, an affidavit shall
be presented to the court or judge, of the facts constitut
ing the contempt, or a statement of the facts by the ref
erees or arbitrators, or other judicial officer.
Contempt before court—Recital of facts in order, 1 CaL 152, 187 : 6
Cal. 818.
Contempt away from court—affidavit, 42 Cal. 412 : attachment, sec.
1212 elseq.
§ 1212. When the contempt is not committed in the
immediate view and presence of the court or judge, a war
rant of attachment may be issued to bring the person
charged to answer, or, without a previous arrest, a war
rant of commitment may, upon notice, or upon an order
to show cause, be granted; and no warrant of commit
ment can be issued without such previous attachment to
answer, or such notice or order to show cause.
§ 1213. Whenever a warrant of attachment is issued,
pursuant to this title, the court or judge must direct, by
an indorsement on such warrant, that the person charged
may be let to bail for his appearance, in an amount to be
specified in such indorsement.
§ 1214. Upon executing the warrant of attachment,
the sheriff must keep the person in custody, bring him
before the court or judge, and detain him until an order
be made in the premises, unless the person arrested entitle
himself to be discharged, as provided in the next section.
§ 1215. When a direction to let the person arrested to
bail is contained in the warrant of attachment, or in
dorsed thereon, he must be discharged from the arrest, up
on executing and delivering to the officer, at any time be
fore the return day of the warrant, a written undertaking,
with two sufficient sureties, to the effect that the person
arrested will appear on the return of the warrant and
abide the order of the court or judge thereupon; or they
will pay, as may be directed, the sum specified in the war
rant.
Undertakings—generally, sec. 941n.
§ 1216. The .officer must return the warrant of arrest
and undertaking, if any, received by him from the person
arrested, by the return day specified therein.
§ 1217. When the person arrested has been brought
up or appeared, the court or judge must proceed to investi
gate
witnesses
the charge,
for or and
against
musthim,
hear for
anywhich
answer
anwhich
adjournment
the person arrested
examine
may be had from time to time, if necessary.
§ 1218. Upon the answer and evidence taken, the
court or judge must determine whether the person pro
ceeded against-is guilty of the contempt charged, and if it
be adjudged that he is guilty of the contempt, a fine may
be imposed on him not exceeding five hundred dollars,
or lie may be imprisoned not exceeding five days, or
both.
§ 1219. "When the contempt consists in the omission to
perform an act which is yet in the power of the person to
perform, he may be imprisoned until he have performed
it, and in that case the act must be specified in the war
rant of commitment.
Application to Justices' Courts—47 Cal. 131.
Imprisonment until performance of act—7 Cal. 175.
Act must be specified—7 Cal. 181.
§ 1220. When the warrant of arrest has been returned
served, if the person arrested do not appear on the return
day, the court or judge may issue another warrant of ar
rest, or may order the undertaking to be prosecuted, or
both. If the undertaking be prosecuted, the measure of
damages in the action is the extent of the loss or injury
sustained by the aggrieved party, by reason of the mis
conduct for which the warrant was issued, and the costs
of the proceeding.
Undertakings, liability on—sec. 941n.
§ 1221. Whenever, by the provisions of this title, an
officer is required to keep a person arrested on a warrant
of attachment in custody, and to bring him before a court
or judge, the inability, from illness or otherwise, of the
person to attend, is sufficient excuse for not bringing him
up; and the officer must not confine a person arrested
upon the warrant in a prison, or otherwise restrain him of
personal liberty, except so far as may be necessary to se
cure his personal attendance.
§ 1222. The judgment and orders of the court or judge,
made in cases of contempt, are final and conclusive.
Judgment final—In probate matters, 53 Cal. 204 : no appeal, 52 CaL
§ 1227. A corporation may be dissolved by the Supe
rior Court of the county where its principal place of busi
ness is situated, upon its voluntary application for that
purpose. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
Voluntary dissolution—1 Cal. 73; 38 Cal. 166 : receiver, sec. 565.
Involuntary dissolution—sec. 802 et seq.
§ 1228. The application must be in writing, and must
set forth :
1. That at a meeting of the stockholders or members
called for that purpose, the dissolution of the corporation
was resolved upon by a two-third vote of all the stock
holders or members;
2. That all claims and demands against the corporation
have been satisfied and discharged.
§ 1229. The application must be signed by a majority
of the board of trustees, directors, or other officers having
the management of the affairs of the corporation, and
must be verified in the same manner as a complaint in a
civil action.
Verification—sec. 446.
§ 1230. If the court is satisfied that the application is
in conformity with this title, the judge thereof must order
it to be filed with the clerk, and that the clerk give not
less than thirty nor more than fifty days' notice of the ap
plication, by publication in some newspaper published in
-ie county ; and if there are none such, then by adver
tisements posted up in three of the principal public places
in the county. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
§ 1231. At any time before the expiration of the time
of publication, any person may file his objections to the
application.
§ 1232. After the time of publication has expired, the
court may, upon five days' notice to the persons who have
filed objections, or without further notice, if no objections
have been filed, proceed to hear and determine the appli
cation, and if all the statements therein made are shown
to be true, must declare the corporation dissolved. [In
effect February 25th, 1878.]
Notices, service, etc.—sec. 1010 tl uq.
§ 1233. The application, notices, and proof of publica
tion, objections, (if there be any) and declaration of dis
solution, constitute the judgment roll; and from the judg
ment an appeal may be taken, as from other judgments
of the Superior Courts. [In effect April 16th, 18801]
Appeals—to Supreme Court, sees. 963-966.
§ 1237. Eminent "domain is the right of the people
or government to take private property for public use.
This right may be exercised in the manner provided in
this
Eminent
title. domain—generally, sec. 1238b.
Constitutional provisions—see Const. Cal. art. 1, sec. 14; art. 12,sec.
8; art. 15, sec. 1.
Strict construction of title—13 Cal. 306; 19 Cal. 47; 24 Cal. 427; 27
Cal. 171; 36 Cal. 639; 49 Cal. 396; 50 Cal. 554.
§ 1238. Subject to the provisions of this title, the right
of eminent domain may be exercised in behalf of the fol
lowing public uses :
1. Fortifications, magazines, arsenals, navy yards, navy
and army stations, light-houses, range and beacon lights,
Code Civ. Proc—SO.
coast surveys, and all other public uses authorized, by the
Government of the United States;
2. Public buildings and grounds for the use of the State,
and all other public uses authorized by the Legislature of
this State ;
3. Public buildings and grounds for the use of any
county, incorporated city, or city and county, village,
town, or school districts; canals, aqueducts, flumes,
ditches, or pipes for conducting water for the use of the
inhabitants of any county, incorporated city, or city and
county, village, or town; or for draining any county, in
corporated city, or city and county, village, or town; rais
ing the banks of streams, removing obstructions there
from, and widening, deepening, or straightening thenchannels; roads, streets, and alleys, and all other public
uses for the benefit of any county, incorporated city, or
city and county, village, or town, or the inhabitants
thereof, which may be authorized by the legislature ; but
the mode of apportioning and collecting the costs of such
improvements shall be such as may be provided in the
statutes by which the same may be authorized;
4. "Wharves, docks, piers, chutes, booms, ferries, bridges,
toll-roads, by-roads, plank and turnpike roads, steam and
horse railroads; canals, ditches, flumes, aqueducts, and
pipes, for public transportation, supplying mines and
farming neighborhoods with water, and draining and re
claiming lands, and forfloating logs and lumber on streams
not navigable;
places
5. Roads,
for working
tunnels,mines;
ditches,also,
flumes,
outlets,
pipes,
natural
and dumping
or other
wise, for the flow, deposit, or conduct of tailings or refuse
matter from mines ; also an occupancy in common by the
owners or possessors of different mines of any place for
the flow, deposit, or conduct of tailings or refuse matter
from their several mines ;
6. By-roads leading from highways to residences and
farms;
7. Telegraph lines;
8. Sewerage of any incorporated city, or city and county
or of any village or town, whether incorporated or unin
corporated, or of any settlement consisting of not less
than ten families, or of any public buildings belonging to
the State, or.to any college or university. [In effect July
1st, 1874.]
Eminent domain generally—Civil Code, sec. 1001 : nature of right,
18 Cal.
power of court,
CaL 70:
public
Cal. 229: «1
Cal.
269:229:compensation,
sec. 471249n;
47 Cal.
636; necessity,
51 Cal. 577:18 enumerated
uses, 61 Cal. 269.
Subdivision 1. National uses—fortifications, etc., 5 Cal. 373; 18
Cal. 229; 19Cal. 47.
Subdivision 2.3. Municipal
State uses—16
uses—Pueblo
Cal. 248; 27 lands
Cal. 171.
for squares, 50 Cal.
370. Water-works, 53 Cal. 383. Straightening channel of river, 47 Cal.
r,36. Openingroads, 32 Cal. 241. Street improvements, 27 Cal. 613; 23 Cal.
345 ; 2'J Cal. 75.
SUBDIVISION 4. Railroads—23 Cal. 323 ; 29 Cal. 112; 30 Cal. 435; 31
Cal. 367, 538; 35 Cal. 621 ; 41 Cal. 147; 46 Cal. 85; 47 Cal. 517; 49 Cal. 3%; 53
Cal. 223.
Subdivision 5. Flumes for tailings—51 Cal. 269.
Subdivision 6. By-roads-32 Cal. 241.
§ 1239. The following is a classification of the estates
and
1. rights
A feeinsimple,
lands subject
when taken
to be taken
for public
for public
buildings
use : or
grounds, or for permanent buildings, for reservoirs and
dams, and permanent flooding occasioned thereby, or for
an outlet for a flow, or a place for the deposit of debris or
tailings
a mine; when taken for any other use ; .
• 2. An of
easement,
3. The right of entry upon and occupation of lands, and
the right to take therefrom such earth, gravel, stones,
trees, and timber as may be necessary for some public
use. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Subdivision 2. Easement of corporation—19 Cal. 579.
§ 1240. The priyate property which may be' taken un
der this title, includes :
2.
1. All
Lands
realbelonging
property to
belonging
this State,
to any
or toperson;
any county, inincorporated city, or city and county, village, or town,
not3. appropriated
Property appropriated
to some public
to public
use ; use ; but such prop
erty shall not be taken unless for a more necessary public
use4. than
Franchises
that to which
for tollitroads,
has been
toll already
bridges,appropriated;
and ferries,
and all other franchises ; but such franchises shall not be
taken unless for free highways, railroads, or other more
necessary public use ;
5. All rights of way for any and all the purposes men
tioned in section twelve hundred and thirty-eight, and
any and all structures and improvements thereon, and
the lands held or used in connection therewith shall be
subject to be connected with, crossed, or intersected by
any other right of way or improvements, or structures
thereon. They shall also be subject to a limited use, in
common with the owner thereof, when necessary; but
such uses, crossings, intersections, and connections shal 1
be made in manner most compatible with the greatest
public benefit and least private injury;
0. All classes of private property not enumerated may
be taken for public use, when such taking is authorized
by law.
Private property taken—refers to other property than money, 23
Cal. 345.
Rights of rival corporations—23 Cal. 323 ; 36 Cal. 639.
Subdivision 3. More necessary public use—see sec. 1241, snbd.3.
Subdivision 5. Crossings—see sec. 1247, subd. 1.
§ 1241. Before property can be taken, it must appear:
1. That the use to which it is to be applied is a use au
thorized by law;
2. That the taking is necessary to such use ;
3. If already appropriated to some public use, that the
public use to which it is to be applied is a more necessary
public use.
It must appear—misrepresentations correctable, 53 Cal. 694.
Subdivision 2. Taking necessary—question for jury, 50 Cal. 505.
Subdivision 3. Public use—18 Cal. 229; 23 Cal. 323.
§ 1242. In all cases where land is required for public
use, the State, or its agents in charge of such use, may
survey and locate the same; but it must be located in the
manner which will be most compatible with the greatest
public good and the least private injury, and subject to
the provisions of section twelve hundred and forty-seven.
The State, or its agents in charge of such public use, may
enter upon the land and make examination, surveys and
maps thereof, and such entry shall constitute no cause of
action in favor of the owners of the land, except for in
juries resulting from negligence, wantonness, or malice.
State or its agents—Civil Code, sec. 1001.
§ 1243. All proceedings under this title must be
brought in the Superior Court of the county in which the
property is situated. They must be commenced by riling
a complaint and issuing a summons thereon. [In effect
April 26th, 1880.]
Complaint—sec. 1244: generally, sec. 426, and notes.
Summons—sec. 1245 : generally, sec. 406 et seq.
§ 1244. The complaint must contain :
1. The name of the corporation, association, commission,
or person in charge of the public use for which the prop
erty is sought, who must be styled plaintifff;
2. The names of all owners and claimants of the property, if known, or a statement that they are unknown,
who mast be styled defendants ;
3. A statement of the right of the plaintifff;
4. If a right of way be sought, the complaint must show
the location, general route, and termini, and must be ac
companied with a map thereof, so far as the same is in
volved in the action or proceeding;
5. A description of each piece of land sought to be
taken, and whether the same includes the whole or only
a part of an entire parcel or tract. All parcels lying in
the county, and required for the same public use, may be
included in the same or separate proceedings, at the
option of the plaintifff, but the court may consolidate or
separate them to suit the convenience of parties.
when application for the condemnation of a right of
way for the. purposes of sewerage is made on behalf of a
settlement, or of an incorporated village or town, the
board of supervisors of the county may be named as
plaintifff. [In effect April 26th, 1880.]
Contents of complaint—subd. 1, plaintifffs, 27 Cal. 171 : subd. 2, equi
table claimants need not be named, SI Cal. 138: subd. 3, statement ol
plaintifff's right; must show fufile attempt to purchase, etc., 23 Cal. 323 ;
28 Cal. 662.
§ 1245. The clerk must issue a summons, which must
contain the names of the parties, a general description oi
the whole property, a statement of the public use for
which it is sought, and a reference to the complaint for
descriptions of the respective parcels, and a notice to the
defendants to appear and show cause why the property
described should not be condemned as prayed for in the
complaint. In all other particulars it must be in the form
of a summons in civil actions, and must be served in like
manner.
Summons generally—contents, sec. 407 et seq. : service, sec. 410 et
geg.
Notice to defendants—jurisdictional, 24 Cal. 427; 27 Cal. 171.
§ 1246. All persons in occupation of, or having or
claiming an interest in, any of the property described in
the complaint, or in the damages for the taking thereof,
though not named, may appear, plead, and defend, each
in respect to his own property or interest, or that claimed
by him, in like manner as if named in the complaint.
Occupants—deemed owners, 7 Cal. 577.
Interest in the property—adverse, 47 Cal. 549.
Appearance—46 Cal. 19 : generally, sec. 1014.
Plead and defend—cross-complaint, 47 Cal. 549: proceedings by-rival
corporations, 23 Cal. 323; 31 Cal. 215; 36 Cal. 639.
§ 1247. The court shall have power :
1. To regulate and determine the place and manner of
making connections and crossings, or of enjoying the
common use mentioned in the fifth subdivision of section
twelve hundred and forty ;
2. To hear and determine all adverse or conflicting claims
to the property sought to be condemned, and to the dam
ages therefore;
3. To determine the respective rights of different par
ties seeking condemnation of the same property.
§ 1248. The court, jury, or referee must hear such legal
testimony as may be offered .by any of the parties to the
proceedings, and thereupon must ascertain and assess :
1. The value of the property sought to be condemned,
and all improvements thereon pertaining to the realty,
and of each and every separate estate or interest therein :
if it consists of different parcels, the value of each parcel
and each estate or interest therein shall be separately as
sessed;
2. If the property sought to be condemned constitutes
only a part of a larger parcel, the damages which will ac
crue to the portion not sought to be condemned, by rea
son of its severance from the portion sought to be con
demned, and the construction of the improvement in the
manner proposed by the plaintifff;
3. Separately, how much the portion not sought to he
condemned, and each estate or interest therein, will be
benefited, if at all, by the construction of the improve
ment proposed by the plaintifff; and if the benefit shall
be equal to the damages assessed lihder subdivision two,
the owner of the parcel shall be allowed no compensation
except the value of the portion taken; but if the benefit
shall be less than the damages, so assessed, the former
shall be deducted from the latter, and the remainder shall
be the only damages allowed in addition to the value ;
4. If the property sought to be condemned be for a rail
road, the cost of good and sufficient fences along the line
of such railroad, and the cost of cattle guards where
fences may cross the line of such railroad;
5. As far as practicable, compensation must be assessed
for each source of damages separately.
Court—findings, when improper, 60 Cal. 505: judgment, vacating, 32
Cal. 530, 558.
Jury—trial by, not essential, 16 Cal. 248; 19 Cal. 579; but see Const.
Cal. art. 1, sec. 14 : findings of, not to be disregarded, 50 Cal. 505.
Referee—report of commissioners, setting aside, new trial, etc., 16
Cal.
82 Cal.
558:112.
35 Cal. 247, 621 ; 49 Cal. 3%: not to pass on title,
etc.,248;
22 Cal.
434; 630,
29 Cal.
SUBDIVISION I. Value of the property—sec. 1249: 35 Cal. 247; 46
Cal. 85; 47 CaL 515; 49 Cal. 139.
Subdivision 2.3. Benefits—
Severance,31damages
Cal. 367; from—41
32 Cal. 530Cal.; 41256;Cal.50 356
Cal.; 90.46
Cal. 65.
Subdivision 4. Fences—6 Cal. 74; 33 Cal. 230.
Subdivision 5. Assessing compensation separately—48 Cal. 586.
§ 1249. For the purpose of assessing compensation
and damages, the right thereto shall be deemed to have
accrued at the date of the summons, and its actual value,
at that date, shall be the measure of compensation for all
property to be actually taken, and the basis of damages
to property not actually taken but injuriously affected,
in all cases -where such damages are allowed as provided
In section twelve hundred and forty-eight. If an order
be made letting the plaintifff into possession, as provided
in section twelve hundred and fifty-four, the compensa
tion and damages awarded shall draw lawful interest
from the date of such order. No improvements put upon
the property, subsequent to the date of the service of
summons shall be included in the assessment of compen
sation or damages.
Compensation—on condemation: generally, 
Damages—when not special, 50 Cal. 90.
§ 1250. If the title attempted to be acquired is found
to be defective from any cause, the plaintifff may again
institute proceedings to acquire the same, as in this title
prescribed.
§ 1251. The plaintifff must, within thirty days after
final judgment, pay the sum of money assessed ; but may,
at the time of or before payment, elect to build the fences
and cattle guards, and if he so elect, shall execute to the
defendant a bond, with sureties to be approved by the
court in double the assessed cost of the same, to build
such fences and cattle guards within eighteen months
from the time the railroad is built on the land taken, and
if such bond be given, need not pay the cost of such
fences and cattle guards. In an action on such bond, the
plaintifff may recover reasonable attorney's fees.
§ 1252. Payment may be made to the defendants en
titled thereto, or the money may be deposited in court
for the defendants, and be distributed to those entitled
thereto. If the money be not so paid or deposited, the
defendants may have execution as in civil cases, and if
the money cannot be made on execution, the court, upon
a showing to that effect, must set aside and annul the en
tire proceedings, and restore possession of the property to
the defendant, if possession has been taken by the plaint
iff.
Payment made—to whom, 6 Cal. 639.
§ 1253. When payments have been made, and the
bond given, if the plaintifff elects to give one, as required
by the last two sections, the court must make a final
order of condemnation, which must describe the property
condemned, and the purposes of such condemnation. A
copy of the order must be filed in the office of the recorder
of the county, and thereupon the property described
therein shall vest in the plaintifff for the purposes therein
specified.
§ 1254. At any time after trial and judgment entered,
or pending an appeal from the judgment to the Supreme
Court, whenever the plaintifff shall have paid into court,
for the defendant, the full amount of the judgment, and
such further sum as may be required by the court as a
fund to pay any further damages and costs that may be
recovered in said proceeding, as well as all damages that
may be sustained by the defendant, if, for any cause, the
property shall not be finally taken for public use, the Supe
rior Court in which the proceeding was tried may, upon
notice of not less than ten days, authorize the plaintifff, if
already in possession, to continue therein, and, if not,
then to take possession of and use the property during
the pendency of and until the final conclusion of the liti
gation, and may, if necessary, stay all actions and pro
ceedings against the plaintifff on account thereof. The
defendant, who is entitled to the money paid into court
for him upon any judgment, shall be entitled to demand
and receive the same at any time thereafter upon obtain
ing an order therefore from the court. It shall be the duty
of the court, or a judge thereof, upon application being
made by such defendant, to order and direct that the
money so paid into court for him be delivered to him upon
his filing a satisfaction of the judgment, or upon his filing
a receipt therefore, and an abandonment of all defenses to
the action or proceeding, except as to the amount of dam
ages that he may be entitled to in the event that a new
trial shall be granted. A payment to a defendant, as
aforesaid, shall be held to be an abandonment by such
defendant of all defenses interposed by him, except
ing his claim for greater compensation. In ascer
taining the amount to he paid into court, the court
shall take care that the same be sufficient and adequate.
The payment of the money in court, as hereinbefore
provided for, shall not discharge the plaintifff from lia
bility to keep the said fund full and without diminution;
but such money shall he and remain, as to all accidents,
defalcations, or other contingencies, (as between the
parties to the proceedings) at the risk of the plaintifff, and
shall so remain until the amount of the compensation or
damages is finally settled by judicial determination, and
until the court awards the money, or such part thereof as
shall be determined upon, to the defendant, and until he
is authorized or required by rule of court to take it. If,
for any reason, the money shall at any time be lost, or
otherwise abstracted, or withdrawn, through no fault of
the defendant, the court shall require the plaintifff to
make and keep the sum good at all times until the litiga
tion is finally brought to an end, and until paid over or
made payable to the defendant by order of court, as above
provided ; and until such time or times the county clerk
shall be deemed to be the custodian of the money, and
shall be liable to the plaintifff upon his official bond for
the same, or any part thereof, in case it be for any reason
lost or otherwise abstracted or withdrawn. The court
may order the money to be deposited in the State treas
ury, and in such case it shall be the duty of the State
treasurer to receive all such monies, duly receipt for and
safely keep the same in a special fund, to be entered on
his books as a condemnation fund for such purpose, and
for such duty he shall be liable to the plaintifff upon his
official bond. The State treasurer shall pay out such
money so deposited in such manner and at such times as
the court or a judge thereof "may, by order or decree,
direct. In all cases where a new trial has been granted
upon the application of the defendant, and he has failed
upon such trial to obtain greater compensation than was
allowed him upon the first trial, the costs of such new trial
shall be taxed against him. [In effect April 26th, 1880.]
Compensation before possession —required by Const. 1879, see
Const. Cal. art. 1, sec. 14, and Lamb v. Schottler, March 17th, 1880.
§ 1255. Costs may be allowed or not, and if allowed,
may be apportioned between the parties on the same or
adverse sides, in the discretion of the court.
§ 1256. Except as otherwise provided in this title, the
provisions of part two of this Code are applicable to and
constitute the rules of practice in the proceedings men
tioned in thi3 title.
Adjournments—do not divest jurisdiction, 27 CaL 171.
Vacating incidental orders—in eminent domain, 47 Cal. 70.
Jury—to pass on need of taking, 50 Cal. 505.
§ 1257. The provisions of part two of this Code, rela
tive to new trials and appeals, except in -so far as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of this title, apply to the
proceedings mentioned in this title; provided, that upon
the payment of the sum of money assessed, and upon the
execution of the bond to build the fences and cattleguards, as provided in section twelve hundred and fiftj"
one, the plaintifff shall be entitled to enter into, improve
and hold possession of the property sought to be con
demned, (if not already in possession, as provided in sec
tion twelve hundred and fifty-four) and devote the same
to tho public use in question; and no motion for nevr
trial or appeal shall, after such payment and filing of
sucli bond, as aforesaid, in any manner retard the con
templated improvement. Any money which shall have
been deposited, as provided in section twelve hundred
and fifty-four, may be applied to the payment of the
money assessed, and the remainder, if any there be, shall
be returned to the plaintifff. [In effect April 1st, 1878.]
New trials—see Referee, report of commissioners, setting1 aside,
etc., under sec. 1248n.
Appeal—from proceedings for condemnation of land, 29 CaL 112; 49
Cal. 139.
§ 1258. With relation to the acts passed at the present
session of the Legislature, this title must be construed in
the same manner as if this Code had been passed on the
last day of this session, and from and after the time this
Code takes effect, all laws of this State in relation to the
taking of private property for public uses are abolished,
and all proceedings had in the exercise of the powers of
eminent domain must conform to the provisions of this
title.
§ 1259. Title seven of part three of the Code of Civil
Procedure of the State of California (this title) shall be in
force and effect from and after the fourth day of April,
one thousand eight hundred and seventy-two.
Section added—by Act of April 1st, 1872; same applies to remaining
sections of this title.
§ 3.260. From and after the time this title takes effect,
it must he construed in the same manner as it would he
were sections four and seventeen of this Code in force
and effect.
§ 3.261. No proceeding to enforce the right of eminent
domain commenced before this title takes effect, is
affected hy the provisions of this title.
§ 3262. Until the first day of January, one thousand
eight hundred and seventy-three, at twelve o'clock noon,
the provisions of sections twelve hundred and fifty-six
and twelve hundred and fifty-seven of this title are sus
pended ; and until then, except as otherwise provided in
this title, the rules of pleading and practice in civil
actions now in force in this State are applicable to the
proceedings mentioned in this title, and constitute the
rules of pleading and practice therein.
§ 3263. Nothing in this Code must he construed to
abrogate or repeal any statute providing for the taking of
property in any city or town for street purposes.
§ 1269. When the attorney-general is informed that
any real estate has escheated to this State, he must file an
information in behalf of the State in the Superior Court
of the county in which sucli estate, or any part thereof,
is situated, setting forth a description of the estate, the
name of the person last seized, the name of the occupant
and person claiming such estate, if known, and the facts
and circumstances in consequence of which the estate is
claimed to have escheated, with an allegation that, by
reason thereof, the State of California has right by law tb
such estate. Upon such information, a summons must
issue to such person, requiring him to appear and answer
the information within the time allowed by law in civil
actions; and the court must make an order setting forth
briefly the contents of the information, and requiring all
persons interested in the estate to appear and show cause,
if any they have, within forty days from the date of the
order, why the same should not vest in this State ; which
order must be published for at least one month from the
date thereof, in a newspaper published in the county, if
one be published therein, and in case no newspaper is
published in the county, in some other newspaper in this
State. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
Unclaimed realty—of non-resident aliens, escheats to State, Civil
Cotle, sec. 672; 5 Cal. 373; 13 Cal. 159; My. P. Rep. 19.
Non-resident aliens—rights generally, 2 Cal. 558; 5 Cal. 373, 331; 6
Cal. 250; 12 Cal. 450; 13 Cal. 159; 18 Cal. 217; 26 Cal. 455; 32 Cal. 376.
§ 1270. The court, upon the information being filed,
and upon the application of the attorney-general, either
before or after answer, upon notice to the party claiming
such estate, if known, may, upon sufficient cause there
for being shown, appoint a receiver to take charge and
receive the rents and profits of the same until the title to
such real estate is finally settled.
Appoint a receiver-see generally, sees. 564-569.
§ 1271. All persons nhmed in the information may ap
pear and answer, and may traverse or deny the facts
stated in the information^ the title of the State to lands
and tenements therein mentioned, at any time before the
time for answering expire* and any other person claim
ing an interest in such estate may appear and be made a
defendant, and by motion for that purpose, in open court,
within the time allowed for answering; and if no person
appears and answers within tike time, then judgment must
be rendered that the State b» seized of the lands and
tenements in such information\claimed. But if any per
son appear and deny the title\set up by the State, or
traverse any material fact set iorth in the information,
the issue of fact must be tried a» issues of fact are tried
in civil actions. If, after the issues are tried, it appears
from the facts found or admitted, tftat the State has good
title to the land and tenements in Vhe information men
tioned , or any part thereof, judgment must be rendered
that the State be seized thereof, and recover costs of suit
against the defendantsProceedings—appearance, sec. 1014 and note: answer, sec. 437 and
notes: judgment, sees. 585, 664, and notes: trial, sees. 600-645 : issue of
fact, sees. 590, 592 : costs, sec. 1021 et seq.
§ 1272. Within twenty years after judgment in any
proceeding had under this title, a person not a party or
privy to such proceeding may file a petition in the Supe
rior Court of the county of Sacramento, showing his
claim or right to the property, or the proceeds thereof.
A copy of such petition must be served on the attorneygeneral at least twenty days before the hearing of the
petition, who must answer the same ; and the court there
upon must try the issue as issues are tried in civil actions,
and if it be determined that such person is entitled to the
property, or the proceeds thereof, it must order the prop
erty, if it has not been sold, to be delivered to him, or if
it has been sold and the proceeds paid into the State
treasury, then it must order the controller to draw his
warrant on the treasury for the payment of the same, but
without interest or cost to the State, a copy of which order,
under the seal of the court, shall be a sufficient voucher
for drawing such warrant. All persons who fail to appear
and file their petitions within the time limited are forever
barred; saving, however, to infants, married women, and
Code Civ. Proo 3T.
persons of unsound mind, or persons beyond the limits of
the United States, the right to appear and file their peti
tions at any time within the time limited, or five years
after their respective disabilities cease. [In effect April
16th, 1880.]
Non-resident aliens—unclaimed realty of, and rights generally, sec.
1269, notes.
§ 1275. Applications for change of names must be
heard and determined by the Superior Courts. [In effect
April 23rd, 1880.]
§ 1276. All applications for change of names must be
made to the Superior Court of the county where the per
son whose name is proposed to be changed resides, by pe
tition, signed by such person; and if such person is under
twenty-one years of age, if a male, and under the age of
eighteen years, if a female, by one of the parents, if liv
ing ; or if both be dead, then by the guardian ; and if there
he no guardian, then by some near relative or friend. The
petition must specify the place of birth and residence of
such person, his or her present name, the name proposed,
and the reason for such change of name, and must, if the
father of such person be not living, name, as far as known
to the petitioner, the near relatives of such person, and
their place of residence. Any religious, benevolent, lit
erary, or scientific corporation, or any corporation bearing
or having for its name, or using or being known by the
name of any benevolent, or charitable order or society,
may by petition, apply to the Superior Court of the county
in which the property of said corporation is situated, for
a change of its corporate name. Such petition must bo
signed by the trustees of the corporation, or by a major
ity of them, and must specify the date of the formation
of the corporation, its present name, the name proposed,
and the reason for such change of name. Upon filing
such petition on behalf of such corporation, the same
proceedings shall be had as upon applications for changes
of names of natural persons ; and no banking corporation
hereafter organized shall adopt or use the name of any
friendly society. [In effect April 23rd, 1880.]
§ 1277. A copy of such petition must be published for
four successive weeks, in some newspaper printed in the
county, if a newspaper be printed therein, but if no
newspaper be printed in the county, a copy of such peti
tion must be posted at three of the most public places in
the county for a like period, and proofs must be made of
such publication before the petition can be considered.
§ 1278. Such application must be heard at such time
as the court may appoint, and objections may be filed by
any person who can, in such objections, show to the court
gooo: reason against such change of name. On the hear
ing, the court may examine on oath any of the petition
ers, remonstrants, or other persons, touching the applica
tion, and may make an order changing the name, or dis
missing the application, as to the court may seem right
and proper. [In effect April 23rd, 1880.]
§ 1279. Each county clerk shall, annually, in the
month of January, make a return to the office of the Sec
retary of State of all changes of names made in the Su
perior Court of his county under this title. Such return
shall show the date of the decree of the court, original
name, name decreed, and residence. Such returns shall
be published in a tabular form with the statutes first pub
lished thereafter. [In effect April 23rd, 1880.]
§ 1281. Persons capable of contracting may submit to
arbitration any controversy which might be the subject of
a civil action between them, except a question of title to
real property in fee or for life. This qualification does
not include questions relating merely to the partition or
boundaries
Arbitration—statute
of real construed,
property.4 Cal. 1, 205.
Submission to arbitration—discontinuance of cause by, 1 Cal. 45:
conclusive effect of, 3 Cal. 43 : by partner, 5 Cal. 345.
Controversy actionable—else no basis for submission, 52 Cal. 159.
Title to real property—question of, 21 Cal. 317; 42 Cal. 479; 52 Cal.
159: partition, 23 Cal. 275.
§ 1282. The submission to arbitration must be in
writing,
Submission
and inmay
writing—penalty
be to one or in,
more
23 Cal.
persons.
275 : stipulation against
appeal.
2
Cal.
74
;
when
award
authorized
by,
21
Cal. 317 : distinguished
from reference, 4 Cal. 1.
•
One or more persons—three arbitrators, majority acting, sec. 1285;
also sec. 1053.
§ 1283. It may be stipulated in the submission that it
be entered as an order of the Superior Court, for which
purpose it must be filed with the clerk of the county
where the parties, or one of them, reside. The clerk
must thereupon enter in his register of actions a note of
the submission, with the names of the parties, the names
of the arbitrators, the date of the submission, when filed,
and the time limited by the submission, if any, within
which the award must be made. When so entered, the
submission cannot be revoked without the consent of
both parties. The arbitrators may be compelled by the
court to make an award, and the award may be enforced
by the court in the same manner as a judgment. If the
submission is not made an order of the court, it may be
revoked at any time before the award is made. [In effect
April 15th,_18S0.]
Order of court—submission made, by stipulation, 14 Cal. 390; 30 Cal.
218i 42 Cal. 125 : but court must nave jurisdiction, 9 Cal. 142.
Register of actions—generally, sec. 1052 : entry and authority, 30
Cal. 218: 43 Cal. 393.
§ 1284. Arbitrators have power to appoint a time and
place for hearing, to adjourn from time to time, to admin
ister oaths to witnesses, to hear the allegations and evi
dence of the parties, and to make an award thereon.
Umpire before hearing—23 Cal. 365.
Make an award thereon—time governed by submission, 30 Cal. 213.
§ 1285. All the arbitrators must meet and act together
during the investigation; but when met, a majority may
determine any question. Before acting, they must be
sworn before an officer authorized to administer oaths,
faithfully and fairly to hear and examine the allegations
and evidence of the parties in relation to the matters in
controversy, and to make a just award according to their
understanding.
Majority acting—sec. 1053.
Just award—when set aside for illegality, 2 Cal. "4.
§ 1286. The award must be in writing, signed by the
arbitrators, or a majority of them, and delivered to the
parties. When the submission is made an order of the
court, the award must be riled with the clerk, and a note
thereof made in his register. After the expiration of five
days from the tiling ofthe award, upon the application of
a party, and on filing an affidavit, showing that notice of
riling the award has been served on the adverse party or
his attorney, at least four days prior to such application,
and that no order staying the entry of judgment has been
served, the award inust be entered by the clerk in the
judgment hpok, and thereupon has the effect of a judg
ment.
Award, extent of—7 Cal. 312; 12 Cal. 331 ; 37 Cal. 197.
Delivered to the parties—afterward, no change or correction, 2 Cat
322; 7 Cal. 312; 23 Cal. 305.
After five days—on filing affidavit, 31 Cal. 128.
Entering judgment on award—1 Cal. 45; 4 Cal. 3; 14 Cal. 390.
§ 1287. The court, on motion, may vacate the award
upon either of the following grounds, and may order a
new hearing before the same arbitrators, or not, in its
discretion :
1. That it was procured by corruption or fraud;
2. That the arbitrators were guilty of misconduct, or
committed gross error in refusing, on cause shown, to
postpone the hearing, or in refusing to hear pertinent evi
dence, or otherwise acted improperly, in a manner by
which the rights of the party were prejudiced;
3. That the arbitrators exceeded their powers in making
their award; or that they refused, or improperly omitted,
to consider a part of the matters submitted to them; or
that the award is indefinite, or cannot be performed.
Award conclusive—except as stated in section, 1 Cal. 45: and see
3 Cal. 431.
Vacating award, grounds for—Subd. 1, fraud, mistake, or accident,
231Cal.
4 Cal. 122,to205;
Cal.evidence,
390. Subd.14 2,Cal.
misconduct,
Cal.74,128122;: contrary
law14and
390. Subd.4 Cal.
3, in 205;
ex
cess of powers, 21 Cal. 317 : indefinite, 2 Cal. 599; 12 Cal. 331; 14 Cal. 390;
37 Cai. 197.
§ 1288. The court may, on motion, modify or correct
the award, where it appears:
1. That there was a miscalculation in figures upon
which it was made, or that there is a mistake in the de
scription of some person or property therein;
2. When a part of the award is upon matters not sub
mitted, which part can be separated from other parts, and
does not affect the decision on the matters submitted ;
3. When the award, though imperfect in form, could
have been amended if it had been a verdict, or the imper
fection disregarded.
Modifying or correcting award—Subd. 2, partially good, 2 Cal. 74;
9 Cal. 142.
§ 1289. The decision upon the motion is subject to
appeal in the same manner as an order which is subject
to appeal in a. civil action; but the judgment entered be
fore a motion made cannot be subject to appeal.
Motion to vacate or modify award—sees. 1287, 1288; 38 Cal. 286.
Appealable orders—sec. 939 and notes.
§ 1290. If a submission to arbitration be revoked, and
an action be brought therefore, the amount to be recovered
can only be the costs and damages sustained in preparing
for and attending the arbitration.
§ 1294. Wills must be proved, and letters testament
ary or of administration granted :
1. In the county of which the decedent was a resident
at the time of his death, in whatever place he may have
died;
' 2. In the county in which the decedent may have died,
leaving estate therein, he not being a resident of the
State;
3. In the county in which any part of the estate may
be, the decedent having died out of the State, and not
resident thereof at the time of his death ;
4. In the county in which any part of the estate may
be, the decedent not being a resident of the State, and not
leaving estate in the county in which he died;
5. In aH other cases, in the county where application
for letters is first made.
Probate matters—jurisdiction of Superior Courts in, sec. 76, subd. 4 :
of former Probate Courts, see under Supebsedkd Coukts, sec. 76n.
Subdivision 1. County of decedent's residence—7 Cal. 215; 10
Cal. 110; 17 Cal. 233 ; 24 Cal. 182; Estate of Tittel, My. P. Kep. 97; 228,
237.
Subdivision 5. County where application first made—see sec.
1295.
§ 1295. When the estate of the decedent is in more
than one county, he having died out of the State, and not
having been a resident thereof at the time of his death,
or being such non-resident, and dying within the State,
and not leaving estate in the county where he died, the
Superior Court of that county in which application is first
made, for letters testamentary or of administration, has
exclusive jurisdiction of the settlement of the estate,
pn effect April 16th, 1880.]
County where application first made—court of, has exclusive juris
diction, 15 Cal. 220.
§ 1298. Every custodian of a will, within thirty days
after receipt of information that the maker thereof is
dead, must deliver the same to the Superior Court having
jurisdiction of the estate, or to the executor named
therein. A failure to comply with the provisions of tljis
section makes the person failing responsible for all dam
ages sustained by any one injured thereby. [In effect
April 16th, 1880.]
Delivery of will by custodian—jurisdictional significance of pro
vision, 22 Cal. 397.
§ 1299 Any executor, devisee, or legatee named in any
will, or any other person interested in the estate, may, at
any time after the death of the testator, petition the
court having jurisdiction to have the will proved, whether
the same be in writing, in his possession or not, or is lost
or destroyed, or beyond the jurisdiction of the State, or a
nuncupative will.
Petition—not
where
missing, 22essential
Cal. 51. to jurisdiction, 22 Cal. 395: presumptions,
§ 1300. A petition for the probate of a will must show:
1. The jurisdictional facts ;
2. Whether the person named as executor consents to
act, or renounces his right to letters testamentary ;
3. The names, ages, and residence of the heirs and
devisees of the decedent, so far as known to the peti
tioner;
4. The probable value and character of the property of
the estate;
5. The name of the person for whom letters testament
ary are prayed.
No defect of form, or in the statement of jurisdictional
facts actually existing, shall make void the probate of a
will. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Petition for probate of wiU—
Subdivision 1. Jurisdictional facts— 10 Cal. 110, and see note
infra.
Subdivision 3. Residence—as a jurisdictional requirement, My.
F. Rep. 88, 228, 237; 19 Cal. 188; 26 Cal. 397.
Jurisdictional facts existing—absence or defect of petition imma
terial, 22 Cal. SI, 397.
§ 1301. If the person named in a will as executor, for
thirty days after he has knowledge of the death of the
testator, and that he is named as executor, fails to peti
tion the proper court for the probate of the will, and that
letters testamentary be issued to him, he may be held to
have renounced his right to letters, and the court may
appoint any other competent person administrator, unless
good cause for delay is shown.
Failure of executor to petition—does not affect jurisdiction, 22 Cal.
395.
§ 1302. If it is alleged in any petition that any will is
in the possession of a third person, and the court is satis
fied that the allegation is correct, an order must be issued
and served upon the person having possession of the will,
requiring him to produce it at a time named in the order.
If Tie has possession of the will, and neglects or refuses to
produce it in obedience to the order, he may, by warrant
from the court, be committed to the jail of the county,
and be kept in close confinement until he produces it.
Probate orders and citations—sees. 1704-1711.
Imprisonment until order obeyed—sec. 1219.
,
V § 1303. When the petition is filed, and the will pro
duced, the Superior Court, or a judge thereof, must fix
the day for hearing the petition, not less than ten nor
more than thirty days from the production of the will.
Notice of the hearing shall be given by the clerk of the
court by publishing the same in a newspaper of the
county ; if there be none, then by three written or printed
notices posted at three of the most public places in the
county. If the notice is published in a weekly newsSaper, it must appear therein on at least three different
ays of publication, and if in a newspaper published,
oftener than once a week, it shall be so published that
there must be at least ten days from the first to the last
day of publication, both the first and the last day being
included. If the notice is by posting, it must be given at
least ten days before the hearing. Tin effect April 16th,
1880.]
Production of will—Initiates Jurisdiction, 22 Cat. 395.
Order directing publication—particularity of, 51 CaL 146.
Publication of notice—sec. 1705; 39 Cal. 550: where defective, pro
ceedings vacated, My. P. Rep. 75: order for, need not direct number
of insertions, 51 Cal. 146.
§ 1304. Copies of the notice of the time appointed for
the probate of the will must be addressed to the heirs of the
testator resident in the State, at their places of residence,
if known to the petitioner, and deposited in the postoffice, with the postage thereon prepaid, at least ten days
before the hearing. If their places of residence be not
known, the copies of notice may be addressed to them,
and deposited in the post-office at the county seat of tho
county where the proceedings are pending. A copy of the
same notice must in like manner be mailed to the person
named as executor, if he be not the petitioner; also, to
any person named as coexecutor not petitioning, if their
places of residence be known. Proof of mailing the
copies of the notice must be made at the hearing. Per
sonal service of copies of the notice at least ten days
before
the day
hearing is equivalent to• mailing. [In
effect July
1st, of
1874.]
Notice to heirs—record must show, 44 Cal. 366; My. P. Rep. 130.
Notice to coexecutor—residence must appear, 51 Cal. 146.
Citation not served—effect of, on Jurisdiction, 14 Cal. 103.
§ 1305. A judge of the Superior Court may at any
time receive petitions for the probate of wills, and make
and issue all necessary orders and writs, to enforce the
production of wills, and the attendance of witnesses, and
may appoint special sessions of his court for hearing peti
tions, trials of issue, and admitting wills to probate. [In
effect April 10th, 1880.]
Probate powers at chambers—sec. 166.
Probate orders and processes—sec. 1704 et seq.
Special sessions—terms formerly, see sec. 73n.
§ 1306. At the time appointed for the hearing, or the
time to which the hearing may have been postponed, the
court, unless the parties appear, must require proof that
the notice has been given, which being made, the court
must hear testimony in proof of the will. [In effect July
1st, 1874.]
Time appointed for the hearing—22 Cal. 51.
Proof of notice—to heirs of estate,5Cal. 70; 49CaL599; My.P. Rep.
130.
Testimony in proof of the will—sees. 1308, 1309, 1315, 1316.
§ 1307. Any person interested may appear and con
test the will. Devisees, legatees, or heirs of an estate
may contest the will through their guardians, or attorneys
appointed by themselves or by the court for that purpose ;
but a contest made by an attorney appointed by the
court does not bar a contest after probate by the party so
represented, if commenced within the time provided in
article four of this chapter; nor does the non-appointment
of an attorney by the court of itself invalidate the probate
of a will. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Contest—sec. 1312 et seq. : acquiescence as bar, 6 Cal. 158.
Guardians—sees. 372, 373, 1747-1809.
Attorneys—generally, sees. 275-299.
Attorney appointed by the court—sec. 1718; My. P. Rep. 6; Estate of
Cunningham, No. 6590, from the Bench, March 11th, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L.
J. 515.
§ 1308. If no person appears to contest the probate of
a will, the court may admit it to probate on the testimony
of one of the subscribing witnesses only, if he testifies
that the will was executea in all particulars as required
by law, and that the testator was of sound mind at the
time of its execution.
Admitting to probate—where contest, sees. 1314, 1317, 1318: conclu
siveness Of, sec. 1908, subd. 1 ; 20 Cal. 233; 22 Cal. 72.
Will was executed—proof of execution of writing, sec. 1940.
§ 1309. An olographic will may be proved in the same
manner that other private writings are proved.
Olographic will—signature to, My. P. Rep. 5, 78, 140.
Private writings, how proved—sec. 1940.
Code Civ. Pboo.—38.
§ 1312. If any one appears to contest the will, he must
file written grounds of opposition to the probate thereof,
and serve a copy on the petitioner and other residents of
the county interested in the estate, any one or more of
whom may demur thereto upon any of the grounds of de
murrer provided for in part two, title six, chapter three of
this Code. If the demurrer is sustained, the court must
allow the contestant a reasonable time, not exceeding ten
days, within which to amend his written opposition. If
the demurrer is overruled, the petitioner and others inter
ested may jointly or separately answer the contestant's
grounds, traversing or otherwise obviating or avoiding
the objections. Any issues of fact thus raised, involving :
1. The competency of the decedent to make a last will
and testament ;
2. The freedom of the decedent at the time of the exe
cution of the will from duress, menace, fraud, or undue
influence ;
3. The due execution and attestation of the will by the
decedent or subscribing witnesses; or
,
4. Any other questions substantially affecting the va
lidity of the willdays
Must,
prior
on torequest
the dayof set
either
for party
the hearing)
in writing,
be (filed
tried three
by a
jury. • If no jury is demanded, the court must try and de
termine the issues joined. On the trial, the contestant is
plaintifff and the petitioner is defendant.
Contestants—sec. 1307.
Contest—before probate, does not involve construction of will, 49
Cal. 599 : after probate, sec. 1327 et seq. : through attorney appointed by
the court, sec. 1307 and note.
Grounds of opposition—
Subdivision 1. Competency—Estate of Toomes, April 7th, 1880,
5 Pac. C. L. J. 286; My. P. Ecp. 12, 135.
Subdivision
2. Undue
Cal.1,465;
of Brooks,
March
31st, 1880,5Pac.
C.L.J.inflnence-52
236; My. P. Rep.
12,50,Estate
141, 143:
variety
of grounds, My. P. Rep. 12, 24 : facts to be stated, My. P. Rep. 205, 259.
Subdivision 3. Execution—see sec. 1315.
Grounds- of demurrer—sees. 430-434: specifying, My. P. Rep. 259.
Contestant plaintifff—must open proofs. My. P. Rep. 73.
§ 1313. When a jury is demanded, the Superior Court
must impannel a jury to try the case, in the manner pro
vided for impanneling trial juries in courts of record ; and
the trial must be conducted in accordance with the provi
sions of part two, title eight, chapter four, of this Code.
A trial by the court must be conducted as provided in part
two, title eight, chapter five, of this Code. [In effect
April 16th, 1880.]
Trial juries—in courts of record, summoning, sees. 225-228: impan
neling, sees. 246, 247.
Condnct
Trial by the
of trial—sec.
court—sees.607b631-636.
; sees. 600-628.
Transfer of proceeding-sees. 397, 398, 1431-1433; 46 Cal. 245.
§ 1314. The jury, after hearing the case, must return
a special verdict upon the issues submitted to them by
the court; upon which the judgment of the court must be
rendered, either admitting the will to probate or reject
nesses
ing it. must
In either
be reduced
case, the
to writing.
proofs of If
thethe
subscribing
will is admit
wifrted to probate, the judgment, will, and proofs must be
recorded.
Special verdict—conclusiveness of, sec. 1317; 34 Cal. 687: verdict
generally, sees. 624-628.
Judgment of the court—need not be formal, 22 Cal. 51.
Proofs reduced to writing—see sec. 1316.
§ 1315. If the will is contested, all the subscribing
witnesses who are present in the county, and who are of
sound mind, must be produced and examined, and the
death, absence, or insanity of any of them must be satis
factorily shown to the court. If none of the subscribing
witnesses reside in the county at the time appointed for
proving the will, the court may admit the testimony of
other witnesses to prove the sanity of the testator and the
execution of the will; and as evidence of the execution it
may admit proof of the handwriting of the testator and
ofWritings—proof
the subscribing
of execution,
witnesses,sec.or1940.
any of them.
Witnesses—generally, sec. 1878-1884: attendance of, procuring, sec.
1985 et teq.
§ 1316. The testimony of each witness, reduced to
writing and signed by him, shall be good evidence in any
subsequent contests concerning the validity of the will,
or the sufficiency of the proof thereof, if the ■witness be
dead, or has permanently removed from this State.
§ 1317. If the court is satisfied, upon the proof taken,
or from the facts found by the jury, that the will was
duly executed, and that the testator at the time of its ex
ecution was of sound and disposing mind, and not acting
under duress, menace, fraud, or undue influence, a certif
icate of the proof and the facts found, signed by the
judge and attested by the seal of the court, must be at
tached to the will. [In effect April 16th, 1880.1
Certificate attached to will—directory merely, 22 Cal. 51.
Seal required—sec. 153,*subd. 2.
§ 1318. The will, and a certificate of the proof thereof,
must be filed and recorded by the clerk, and the same,
when so filed and recorded, shall constitute part of the
record in the cause or proceeding. All testimony shall
be filed by the clerk. [In effect April 15th, 1880.]
Constitute part of record, etc.—inserted by amdt. 1860.
• '
ABTTCLE HI.
Probate of Foreign Wills.
5 1322. Wills proved in other States to be recorded, when and where.
SI 1323.
on of
theprobate
production
of n foreign
1324. Proceedings
Hearing proofs
of foreign
will. will.
fl322. All wills duly proved and allowed in any
er of the United States, or in any foreign country or
State, may be allowed and recorded in the Superior Court
of any county in which the testator shall have left any
estate. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
§ 1323. "When a copy of the will and the probate
thereof, duly authenticated, shall be produced by the ex
ecutor, or by any other person interested in the will, with
a petition for letters, the same must be filed, and the court
or judge must appoint a time for the hearing; notice
whereof must be given as hereinbefore provided for an
original petition for the probate of a will.
Foreign executor—no extra-territorial authority, see'sec. 1913.
Notice as for an original petition—see sec. 1303 etseq.: application
of special statute, 39 Cal. 550.
Attorney for absent heirs—sec. 1718.
§ 1324. If, on the hearing, it appears upon the face of
the record that the will has been proved, allowed, and
admitted to probate in any other of the United States, or
in any foreign country, arid that it was executed accord
ing to the law of the place in whieh the same was made,
or in which the testator was at the time domiciled, or in
conformity with the laws of this State, it must be ad
mitted to probate and have the same force and effect as a
will first admitted to probate in this State, and letters
testamentary or of administration issued thereon.
Admitted to probate—effect of judgment, 22 Cal. 72.
Letters testamentary or of administration—sees. 1349-1362.
§ 1327. "When a will has been admitted to probate,
any person interested may, at any time within one year
after such probate, contest the same or the validity of the
will. For that purpose he must file in the court in which
the will was proved, a petition in writing, containing his
allegations against the validity of the will or against the
sufficiency of the proof, and praying that the probate may
be revoked.
Within one year after probate—Estate of Cunningham, My. P. Rep.
214: or appeal, 5 P»c. C. L. J. 515; My. P. Rep. 255: if no contest, probate
conclusive, sec. 1333.
Distribution proper before end of year—51 Cal. 568 ; 52 Cal. 94.
Attorney appointed by the court—powers as to proceedings for re
vocation, My. P. Rep. 6, 75.
Petition for revocation—My. P. Rep. 259: allegations against validits' of will, see sec. 1312.
§ 1328. TJpon filing the petition, a citation must be
issued to the executors of the will, or to the administra
tors with the will annexed, and to all the legatees and
devisees mentioned in the will, and heirs residing in the
State, so far as known to the petitioner; or to their guard
ians, if any of them are minors; or to their personal
representatives, if any of them are dead; requiring them
to appear before the court on some day of a regular term,
therein specified, to show cause why the probate of the
will should not be revoked. [In effect July 1st, 1874. J
Citation—see sees. 1707-1711.
Guardians—sec. 1722; sec. 1747 et teg.
Regular term—abolition of terms, sec. 73n.
§ 1329. At the time appointed for showing cause, or at
any time to which the hearing is postponed, personal serv
ice of the citations having been made upon any persons
named therein, the court must proceed to try the issues
of fact joined in the same manner as in an original con
test of a will.
Proof of notice—see sec. 1306.
Try the issues joined—see sec. 1312; Estate of Cunningham, March
11th, 1880, IS Fac. C. L. J. MS.
§ 1330. In all cases of petitions to revoke the probate
of a will, wherein the original probate was granted with
out a contest, on written demand of either party, filed
three days prior to the hearing, a trial by jury must be
had as in cases of the contest of an original petition to
admit a will to probate. If, upon hearing the proofs of
the parties, the jury shall find, or if no jury is had, the
court shall decide, that the will is for any reason invalid,
or that it is not sufficiently proved to be the last will of
the
Jury—trial
testator,by,the
sees.probate
1313, 1314.must be annulled and revoked.
,
§ 1331. Upon the revocation being made, the powers
of the executor or administrator with the will annexed
must cease ; but such executor or administrator shall not
be liable for any act done in good faith previous to the
revocation.
Acta before revocation, valid—sec. 1428.
§ 1332. The fees and expenses must be paid by the
party contesting the validity or probate of the will, if the
will in probate is confirmed. If the probate is revoked,
the costs must be paid by the party who resisted the
revocation, or out of the property of the decedent, as the
court directs.
Costs of contest—costs generally, sec. 1021 et seq.
§ 1333. If no person, within one year after the probate
of a will, contest the same or the validity thereof, the
probate of the will is conclusive ; saving to infants and
persons of unsound mind, a like period of one year after
their respective disabilities are removed. [In effect Jnly
1st, 1874.]
Conclusiveness of probate—sec. 1908,subd. 1 and notes; 20CaL233.
Coverture
Distributionnotneed
a disability—My.
not be postponed—for
P. Hep. 19. those under disability,
52Cal.94.
§ 1338. Whenever any will is lost or destroyed, the
Superior Court must take proof of the execution and
val idity thereof, and establish the same ; notice to all per
sons interested being first given, as prescribed in regard
to proofs of wills in other cases. All the testimony given
must be reduced to writing, and signed by the witnesses.
[In effect April 16th, 1880.]
Notice as to all persons interested—sees. 1303, 1304 : by citation,
sees. 1707-1711: service of papers, sec. 1010 et seq.
§ 1339. No will shall be proved as a lost or destroyed
will, unless the same is proved to have been in existence
at the time of the death of the testator, or is shown to
have been fraudulently destroyed in the lifetime of the
testator, nor unless its provisions are clearly and dis
tinctly proved by at least two credible witnesses.
§ 1340. When a lost will is established, the provisions
thereof must be distinctly stated and certified by the
judge, under his hand and the seal of the court, and the
certificate must be filed and recorded as other wills are
filed and recorded, and letters testamentary or of admin
istration, with the will annexed, must be issued thereon
in the same manner as upon wills produced and duly
proved. The testimony must be reduced to writing,
signed, certified, and filed as in other cases, and shall
have the same effect as evidence as provided in section
one thousand three hundred and sixteen. [In effect April
16th, 1880.]
Certificate—sec. 1317.
Letters testamentary, etc.—sees. 1349-1362.
§ 1341. If, before or during the pendency of an appli
cation to prove a lost or destroyed will, letters of admin
istration are granted on the estate of the testator, or
letters testamentary of any previous will of the testator
are granted, the court may restrain the administrators or
executors so appointed from, any acts or proceedings
which would be injurious to the legatees or devisees
claiming under the lost or destroyed will.
§ 1344. Nuncupative wills may at any time, within
six months after the testamentary words are spoken by
the decedent, be admitted to probate, on petition and
notice as provided in article one, chapter two, of this
title. The petition, in addition to the jurisdictional facts,
must allege that the testamentary words or the substance
thereof were reduced to writing within thirty days after
they were spoken, which writing must accompany the
petition.
Nuncupative wills— Civil Code, sees. 1288-1291: under Mexican
system, 1 Cal. 488.
Petition and notice—sees. 1298-1309.
§ 1345. The Superior Court must not receive or enter
tain a petition for the probate of a nuncupative will until
the lapse of teu days from the death of the testator, nor
must such petition at any time be acted on until the tes
tamentary words are, or their substance is, reduced to
writing and filed with the petition, nor until the surviv
ing husband or wife, (if any) and all other persons resi
dent in the State or county interested in the estate, are
notified as hereinbefore provided. [In effect April icth,
1880.]
Notifying persons interested—see sec. 1338n.
§ 1346. Contests of the probate of nuncupative wills,
and appointments of executors and administrators of the
estate devised thereby, must be had, conducted, and made
as hereinbefore provided in cases of the probate of writ
ten wills.
Probate contests—sec. 1312 et seq. ; sec. 1327 et seq.
Contesting appointment of executors, etc.—sees. 1351, 1374.
§ 1349. The court admitting a will to probate, after
the same is proved and allowed, must issue letters
thereon to the persons named therein as executors who
are competent to discharge the trust, who must appear
and qualify, unless objection is made as provided in sec
tion thirteen hundred and fifty-one.
Letters testamentary—form of, sec. 1360: when not ordered to issue,
36 Cal. 75 : issued to persons not authorized, are void, 52 Cal. 658.
Qualification of executors—sees. 1387-1407: powers before Civil
Code, sec. 1373.
§ 1350. No person is competent to serve as executor
who, at the time the will is admitted to probate, is :
1. Under the age- of majority;
2. Convicted of an infamous crime;
3. Adjudged by the court incompetent to execute the
duties of the trust by reason of drunkenness, improvi
dence, or want of understanding or integrity.
If the sole executor or all the executors are incompe
tent, or renounce, or fail to apply for letters, or to appear
and qualify, letters of administration, with the will an
nexed, must be issued as designated and provided for the
grant of letters in cases of intestacy. [Approved -April
1st, 1878.]
Incompetent to serve as executors—subd. 1, minor, see sec. 1354:
subd. 3, want of integrity, My. F. Sep. 117.
Some of executors unable to act—sec. 1354.
Marriage—as aifecting competency, sec. 1352.
Letters of administration with will annexed—sec. 1356.
§ 1351. Any person interested in a will may file objec
tions in writing, to granting letters testamentary to the
persons named as executors, or any of them, and the ob
jections must be heard and determined by the court; a
petition may, at the same time, be filed for letters of ad
ministration with the will annexed.
Letters of administration with will annexed—sec. 1356.
§ 1352. When an unmarried woman, appointed execu
trix, marries, her authority is extinguished. When a
married woman is named as executrix, she may be ap
pointed and serve in every respect as afemme sole.
Unmarried woman—appointed executrix, marries, 18 CaL 20: ap
plication to widow, 42 Cal. 462.
Married woman—not to be administratrix, sec. 1370.
§ 1353. No executor of an executor shall, as such, be
authorized to administer on the estate of the first testator,
but on the death of the sole or surviving executor of any
last will, letters of administration with the will annexed,
of the estate of the first testator, left unadministered,
must be issued.
Executor of an executor—claim cannot be presented to, 52 Cal. 638.
Letters of administration with will annexed—sec. 1356.
§ 1354. Where a person absent from the State, or a
minor, is named executor—if there is another executor
who accepts the trust and qualifies—the latter may have
letters testamentary and administer the estate until the
return of the absentee or the majority of the minor, who
may then be admitted as joint executor. If there is no
other executor, letters of administration with the will
annexed must be granted; but the court may, in its dis
cretion, revoke them on the return of the absent execu
tor, or the arrival of the minor at the age of majority.
§ 1355. "When all the executors named are not ap
pointed by the court, those appointed have the same au
thority to perform all acts and discharge the trust, re
quired by the will, as effectually for every purpose as if all
were appointed and should act together ; where there are
two executors or administrators, the act of one alone shall
be effectual, if the other is absent from the state, or la
boring under any legal disability from serving, or if he
lias given his coexecutor or coadministrator authority in
writing, to act for both ; and where there are more than
two executors or administrators, the act of a majority is
valid.
Remainder of executors acting—where some incapacitated, etc.,
sec. 1425.
Ooexecutor not acting—not entitled to show of commissions, 24
Cal. 90.
Joint authority—sec. 15.
Authority of executors—before qualifying. Civil Code, sec. 1373 : be
fore letters revoked, sec. 1428 : powers, etc., generally, sec. 1531 et seq. :
removals, etc., sec. 1436 et seq.
§ 1356. Administrators with the will annexed have
the same authority over the estates which executors
named in the will would have, and their acts are as effect
ual for all purposes. Their letters must be signed by the
clerk of the court, and bear the seal thereof.
Authority of executors—sec. 1355n.
Administrators with the will annexed—same power as executor,
32 Cal. 436: may maintain conversion, 29 Cal. 507.
ARTICLE II.
Form of Letters.
1360.
Form of
of letters
letters of
testamentary.
1361. Form
administration with the will annexed.
1362. Form of letters of administration.
§ 1360. Letters testamentary must be substantially in
the following form: State of California, county, or city
and county, of
. The last will of A. B., deceased, a
copy of which is hereto annexed, having been proved and
recorded in the Superior Court of the county, or city and
county, of
, C. D., who is named therein as such, is
hereby appointed executor. Witness, G. H., clerk of the
Superior Court of the county, or city and county, of
,
with the seal of the court affixed, the
day of
, a.
d. 18—. (Seal.) By order of the court. G. H., clerk.
[In effect April 16th, 1880.]
Seal—required, sec. 83, subd. 2 : of courts, generally, sees. 147-153.
§ 1361. Letters of administration, with the will an
nexed, must be substantially in the following form: State
of California, county, or city and county, of
. The
last will of A. B., deceased, a copy of which is hereto an
nexed, having been proved and recorded in the Superior
Court of the county, or city and county, of
, and
there being no executor named in the will (or as the case
may be), C. D. is hereby appointed administrator with the
will annexed. Witness, G. H., clerk of the Superior
Court of the county, or city and county, of
, with the
seal of the court affixed, the
day of
, A. D. 18—.
(Seal.) By order of the court. G. H., clerk. [In effect
April 16th, 1880.]
See—sec. 1360n.
§ 1362. Letters of administration must be signed by
the clerk, under the seal of the court, and substantially
in the following form: State of California, county, or
city and county, of
. C. D. is hereby appointed ad
ministrator of the estate of A. B., deceased. (Seal.) Wit
ness, G. H., clerk of the Superior Court of .the county,
or city And county, of
, with the seal thereof affixed,
the
day of
, A. D. 18—. By order of the court.
G.See—sec.
H., clerk.
1360». [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
■
ARTICLE m.
Letters oe Administration, to Whom and the Order in
which they are Granted.
§ 1365. Order of persons entitled to administer. Partner not to admin
ister. of persons equally entitled.
s 1366. Preference
§ 1367. In discretion of court to appoint administrator, when.
|§ 1368.
Whenare
minor
entitled, who
administrator.
1369. Who
incompetent
to actappointed
as administrators.
I 1370. Married woman not to be administratrix.
§ 1365. Administration of the estate of a person dy
ing intestate must be granted to some one or more of
the persons hereinafter mentioned, the relatives of the
deceased being entitled to administer only when they are
entitled to succeed to his personal estate, or some portion j
thereof ; and they are, respectively, entitled thereto in the
following order :
1. The surviving husband or wife, or some competent
person whom he or she may request to have appointed;
2. The children;
3. The father or mother;
i. The brothers;
5. The sisters;
6. The grandchildren;
7. The next of kin entitled to share in the distribution
of the estate ;
8. The public administrator;
9. The creditors;
10. Any person legally competent.
If the decedent was a member of a partnership at the
time of his decease, the surviving partner must in no case
be appointed administrator of his estate. [Approved
April 1st, 1878.]
^Section not applicable—to administrator with will annexed, 52 Cal.
Persons entitled to administer—subd. 1. Survivinghusbandorwi/e:
wife's
community
property,
CiviltoCode,
sec.administrator.
1401; 17 Cal. 525:
of non-resident
widow
preferred
public
My.nominee
P. Rep.
179,226: Estate of Cotter, Feb. 27th, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L.J.75: letters grant
ed
to
husband
do
not
establish
his
marital
relations,
My.
P.
Rep.
Subd. 2, Children, legitimate only, 52 Cal. 84 : adopted son, nominee204.
of.
preferred to public administrator, My. P. Rep. 186. Subd. 4, Brother's
nominee, 16 Caj. 161 ; see sec. 1379. Subd. 7, Next of kin, entitled to share,
etc., 585:Cal.nephew,
64: grandmother's
to creditor, My.
P.
Rep.
28 Cal. 182. nominee
Subd. 8,preferred
Public administrator,
before
amdt. 1876: 46 Cal. 573 : when preferred to nominee of distributee, 53
Cal. 243 : discretion, where opposed by nominee of non-resident execu
tor. My. P. Rep. 185, 238: not preferred to nominee of adopted son, My.
P.Rep.186:
et tea. Subd.
10, Anycompetent,
other persons,
etc.,
incompetent,generally,
sees. 1369,sec.
13701726
: nominee
of brother,
16 Cal.
161.
Survivingpartner—not toadminister, thoughbrotheralso, 16 Cal. 367.
Savings-bank deposits— $300 collected without administration,
Stats. 1873-74, p. 132.
§ 1366. Of several persons claiming and equally en
titled to administer, males must be preferred to females,
and relatives of the whole to those of the half blood.
§ 1367. When there are several persons equally en
titled to the administration, the court may grant letters to
one or more of them; and when a creditor is claiming
letters, the court may, in its discretion, at the request of
another creditor, grant letters to any other person legally
competent.
Appointing one or more administrators—single administrator, 23
Cal. 224; joint administrators,*24 Cal. 491.
Creditors disputing—discretion of court, 46 Cal. 573.
Code Civ. Proc.—3».

§ 1368-71 EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS.
§ 1368. If any person entitled to administration is a
minor, letters must be granted to his or her guardian, or
any other person entitled to letters of administration, in
the discretion of the court.
Guardian of minor—sees. 372, 373, and notes; sees. 1747, 1759.
Persons entitled to administer—sec. 1365, and note.
§ 1369. No person is competent or entitled to serve as
administrator or administratrix who is :
1. Under the age of majority;
2. Not a bonafide resident of the State;
3. Convicted of an infamous crime ;
4. Adjudged by the court incompetent to execute the
duties of the trust by reason of drunkenness, improvi
dence, or want of understanding or integrity. [Approved
April 1st, 1878.]
Persons incompetent to administer—No discretion, to exclude, 23
Cal.
Subd. 1, My.
Minor,
sec. 1368.
Subd. 4,2, Non-resident,
nominee of,23
when476.preferred,
P. Rep.
179. Subd.
Want of understanding,
Cal. 476.
§ 1370. A married woman must not be appointed ad
ministratrix. When an unmarried woman appointed
administratrix marries, her authority is extinguished.
[Amendment approved February 13th, 1872. — § 56.
When any unmarried woman who shall have been ap
pointed administratrix, shall marry, her marriage shall
extinguish her authority as such administratrix. Ad
ministration shall not be granted to a married woman.]
Married woman as executrix—sec. 1352.
ARTICLE IV.
Petition tor Letters, and Action thereon.
§ 1371. Applications, how made.
I 1372. When granted.
| 1373. Notice of application.
1 1374. Contesting applications.
Hearing ofofapplication.
§ 1375.
1376. Evidence
notice.
•
§ 1377. Grant to any applicant.
§ 1378. What proofs must be made before granting letters of adminis
tration.may be granted to others than those entitled.
§ 1379. Letters
§ 1371. Petitions for letters of administration must
be in writing, signed by the applicant or his counsel, and
riled with the clerk of the court, stating the* facts essen
tial to give the court jurisdiction of the case, and when
known to the applicant, he must state the names, ages,
and residence of the heirs of the decedent, and the value
and character of the property. If the jurisdictional facts
existed, but are not fully set forth in the petition, and
are afterward proved in the course of administration,
the decree or order of administration and subsequent
proceedings are not void on account of such want of
jurisdictional averments.
Stating the jurisdictional facts—as to right to administer, 28 Cal.
182 : residence of decedent, 7 Cal. 215; 17 Cal. 233; 19 Cal. 188.
Value of the property—held not jurisdictional fact, 28 Cal. 182.
Jurisdiction of the case—where not sufficient basis for, My. P. Rep.
208.
Proceedings not void—for want of jurisdictional averments, 33 Cal.
541.
§ 1372. Letters of administration may be granted by
the court at any time appointed for the hearing of the
application, or at any time to which the hearing is con
tinued or postponed. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
§ 1373. When a petition praying for letters of admin
istration is filed, the clerk must give notice thereof by
causing notices to be posted in at least three public
places in the county, one of which must be at the place
where the court is held, containing the name of the de
cedent, the name of the applicant, and the time at which
the application will be heard. Such notice must be given
' at least ten days before the hearing. [In effect April 16th,
1880.]
Posting notices—compare, sec. 1303.
§ 1374. Any person interested may contest the peti
tion, by filing written opposition thereto, on the ground
of the incompetency of the applicant, or may assert his
own rights to the administration, and pray that letters be
issued to himself. In the latter case the contestant must
file a petition and give the notice required for an original
petition, and the court must hear the two petitions to
gether.
Incompetency of the applicant—sec. 1369.
Assert his own rights—persons entitled to administer, sec. 1365.
§ 1375. On the hearing, it being first proved that
notice has been given as herein required, the court must
hear the allegations and proofs of the parties, and order
the issuing of letters of administration to the party best
entitled thereto.
Proof of notice—compare, sec. 1306: conclusive evidence, sec. 1376.
Hear the proofs, etc.—see sec. 1378: testimony admissible, 7 Cal. 215.
Order the issuance of letters—otherwise, no authority, 34 Cal. 464 .
§ 1376. An entry in the minutes of the court, that
the required proof was made and notice given, shall be
conclusive evidence of the fact of such notice. *
Entry in the minutes—when insufficient, 7 Cal. 234.
§ 1377. Letters of administration must he granted to
any applicant, though it appears that there are other per
sons having better rights to the administration, when
such persons fail to appear and claim the issuing of letters
to themselves.
Other persons having better rights—may procure revocation, see
sees. 1383-1386.
Failure to appear, etc.—is waiver of right, 16 Cal. 161.
§ 1378. Before letters of administration are granted
on the estate of any person who is represented to have
died intestate, the fact of his dying intestate must be
proved by the testimony of the applicant or others, and
the court may also examine any other person concerning
the time, place, and manner of his death, the place of his
residence at the time, the value and character of his
property, and whether or not the decedent left any will,
and may compel any person to attend as a witness for
that purpose.
Place of residence—of alleged Intestate, testimony admissible, 7
Cal. 215.
Witness—compelling attendance of, sec. 1985 et seq.: creditor may
be, My. P. Eep. 202.
§ 1379. Administration may be granted to one or more
competent persons, although not otherwise entitled to the
same, at the written request of the person entitled, filed
in the court. When the person entitled is a non-resident
of the State, affidavits, taken ex parte before any officer
authorized by the laws of this State to take acknowledg
ments and administer oaths out of this State, may be
received as primafacie evidence of the identity of the
party, if free' from suspicion, and the fact is established
to the satisfaction of the court. [In effect April lGth, 1880.]
Section applicable—only where vacancy, 25 Cal. 585.
Discretion of the court—where will, My. P. Rep. 181.
Request of person entitled—party appointed at, My. P. Rep. 85, 185;
16 Cal. 161; 28 Cal. 186: but when public administrator preferred, see
53 Cal. 243.
Proof of Identity—Affidavits, sees. 2009-2015 : depositions out of the
State, sees. 2024-2028 : prima facie evidence, sec. 1833.
§ 1383. When letters of administration have been
granted to any other person than the surviving husband
or wife, child, father, mother, brother, or sister of the in
testate, any one of them who is competent, or any compe
tent person at the written request of any one of them,
may obtain the revocation of the letters, and be entitled
to the administration, by presenting to the court a petition
praying the revocation, and that letters of administration
may be issued to him. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
Competent—23 Cal. 476; persons incompetent, sees. 1369, 1370.
At written request—compare Request of Person Entitled,
sec. 1379n : before amdt. 1880, nominee not appointed, 25 Cal. 585. *
Revocation of the letters—granting fresh letters, effects, 49£al. 505:
Incumbent on court, 23 Cal. 476.
§ 1384. When such petition is filed, the clerk must, in
addition to the notice provided in section thirteen hundred
and seventy-three, issue a citation to the administrator to
appear and answer the same at the time appointed for the
hearing.
Citation—to[Inadministrator,
effect July231st,
Cal.1874.]
479: generally, sees. 1707-1711.
§ 1385. At the time appointed, the citation having
been duly served and returned, the court must proceed
to hear the . allegations and proofs of the parties; and if
the right of the applicant is established, and he is compe
tent, letters of administration must be granted to him,
and the letters of the former administrator revoked.
Hearing and appointment—23 Cal. 480.'
§ 1386. The surviving husband or wife, when letters
of administration have been granted to a child, father,
brother, or sister of the intestate; or any of such rela
tives, when letters have been granted to any other of
them, may assert his prior right, and obtain letters of ad
ministration, and have the letters before granted revoked
i n the manner prescribed in the three preceding sections.
§ 1387. Before letters testamentary or of administra
tion are issued to the executor or administrator, he must
take and subscribe an oath before some officer authorized
to administer oaths, that he will perform, according to
law, the duties of executor or administrator, which oath
must be attached to the letters. All letters testamentary
and of administration issued to, and all bonds executed
by, executors or administrators, with the affidavits and
certificates thereon, must be forthwith recorded by the
clerk of the court having jurisdiction of the estates, in
books to be kept by him in his office for that purpose.
§ 1383. Every person to whom letters testamentary or
of administration are directed to issue, must, before re
ceiving them, execute a bond to the State of California,
with two or more sufficient sureties, to be approved by the
Superior Court, or a judge thereof. In form, the bond
must be joint and several, and the penalty must not be
less than twice the value of the personal property, and
twice the probable value of the annual rents, profits, and
issues of real property belonging to the estate, which val
ues must be ascertained by the Superior Court, or a judge
thereof, by examining on oatli the party applying, and
any other persons. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
State of California—executed to, compare, 6 Cal. 632.
Sureties—sees. 1393, 1394, 1397-1400, 1403, 1404, 1407.
Approved byjudge—at chambers, sec. 166.
Bond—condition of, sec. 1390: separate, when, sec. 1391: recovery on,
sees. 1362, 1407: not required, when, sec. 1396: further security, sees.
1389, 1.194-1402: stands as undertaking on appeal, sec. 970 : undertakings
generally, sec. 941n.
Amount of bond—when no review of action fixing, 28 Cal. 182.
Double the value of the personal property—My. P. Rep. 239.
§ 1389. The Superior Court, or a judge thereof, must
require an additional bond whenever the sale of any real
estate belonging to an estate is ordered ; but no such ad
ditional bond must be required when it satisfactorily
appears to the court that the penalty of the bond given
before receiving letters, or of any bond given in place
thereof, is equal to twice the value of the personal prop
erty remaining in or that will come into the possession of
the executor or administrator, including the annual rents,
profits, and issues of real estate, and twice the probable
amount to "be realized on the sale of the real estate
ordered to be sold. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
Additional bond—objection to confirmation of sale, because sureties
insolvent, 50 Cal. 308 : may also be required of public administrator,
sec. 1727.
§ 1390. The bond must be conditioned that the execu
tor or administrator shall faithfully execute the duties of
the trust according to law.
Conditions of the bond—no breach of, 5 Cal. 443.
Duties of the trust—see sec. 1581 et seq.
§ 1391. When two or more persons are appointed ex
ecutors or administrators, the Superior .Court, or a judge
thereof, must require and take a separate bond from each
of them. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
§ 1392. The bond shall not be void upon the first re
covery, but may be sued and recovered upon from time
to time, by any person aggrieved, in his own name, until
the whole penalty is exhausted.
Sued upon—joining defendants, sec. 383.
In his own name—party beneficially interested, sec. 367 and notes.
Penalty—sees. 1388, 1399.
Kind of money—payable under bond, sec. 1407.
§ 1393. In all cases where bonds or undertakings are
required to be given, under this title, the sureties must
justify thereon in the same manner and in like amounts
as required by section ten hundred and fffty-seven of this
Code, and the certificate thereof must be attached to and
filed and recorded with the bond or undertaking. All
such bonds and undertakings must be approved by a
judge of the Superior Court before being riled or recorded.
[In effect April 16th, 1880.]
Approved by judge—at chambers, sec. 166.
'Examination of sureties—wheu qualifications questioned, sec. 1394.
§ 1394. Before the judge approves any bond required
under this title, and after its approval, he may, of his own
motion, or upon the motion of any person interested in
the estate, supported by affidavit that the sureties, or
some one or more of them, are not worth as much as they
have justified to, order a citation to issue requiring such
sureties to appear before him at a designated time and
place, to be examined touching their property and its
value; and the judge must, at the same time, cause a
notice to be issued to the executor or administrator re
quiring his appearance on the return of the citation ; and
on its return he may examine the sureties and such wit
nesses as may be produced, touching the property of the
sureties and its value; and if, upon such examination, he
is satisfied that the bond is insufficient, he must require
sufficient
Citations—sees.
additional
1707-1711.
security. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
Additional security—effect of failure to give, In time, sec. 1393.
§ 1395. If sufficient security is not given within the
time fixed by the judge's order, the right of such executor
or administrator to the administration shall cease, and
the person next entitled to the administration on the
estate, who will execute a sufficient bond, must be ap
pointed to the administration
§ 1396. When it is expressly provided in the will that
no bond shall be required of the executor, letters testa
mentary may issue, and sales of real estate be made and
confirmed without any bond, unless the court, for good
cause, require one to be executed; but the executor may
at any time afterward, if it appear from any cause nec
essary or proper, be required to file a bond, as in other
cases. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Bond subsequently required — sec. 1401 not in conflict with this
section, see 53 Cal. 19.
§ 1397. Any person interested in an estate may, by
verified petition, represent to the Superior Court, or a
judge thereof, that the sureties of the executor or admin
istrator thereof have become, or are becoming, insolvent,
or that they have removed, or are about to remove, from
the State, or that from any other cause the bond is inr
sufficient, and ask that further security be required. [In
effect April 16th, 1880.]
.Ask further security—court may, sec. 1402.
§ 1398. If the court, or a judge thereof, is satisfied
t.liat the matter requires investigation, a citation must be
issued to the executor or administrator, requiring him to
appear, at a time and place to be therein specified, to
show cause why he should not give further security.
The citation must be served personally on the executor
or administrator, at least five days before the return day.
If he has absconded, or cannot be found, it may be served
"by leaving a copy of it at liis place of residence, or by
such publication as the court or a judge thereof may or
der. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
§ 1399. On the return of the citation, or at such other
time as the judge may appoint, he must proceed to hear
the proofs and allegations of the parties. If it satisfac
torily appears that the security is from any cause insuffi
cient, he may make an order requiring the executor or
administrator to give further security, or to file a new
bond in the usual form, within a reasonable time, not
less than five days.
§ 1400. If the executor or administrator neglects to
comply with the order within the time prescribed, the
judge must, by order, revoke his letters, and his authority
must thereupon case.
§ 1401. When a petition is presented, praying that an
executor or administrator be required to give further se
curity, or to give bond, where by the terms of the will no
bond was originally required, and it is alleged on oath
that the executor or administrator is wasting the property
of the estate, the judge may, by order, suspend his powers
until the matter can be heard and determined.
Suspension of executor—until bond given, not in conflict with sec.
1396; 63 Cal. 19.
§ 1402. "When it comes to his knowledge that the bond
of any executor or administrator is from any cause in
sufficient, the judge, without any application, must cause
him to be cited to appear and show cause why he should
not give further security, and must proceed thereon as
upon the application of any person interested. [In effect
April 16th, 1880.J
§ 1403. When a surety of any executor or adminis
trator desires to be released from responsibility on ac
count of future acts, lie may make application to tbl
Superior Court, or a judge thereof, for relief. The. cool
or judge must cause a citation to the executor or adminis
trator to be issued, and served personally, requiring In
to appear at a time and place to be therein specified, ana
to give other security. If he has absconded, left, m
removed from the State, or if he cannot be found, aftd
vided
due diligence
in section
and
oneinquiry,
thousand
service
threemay
hundred
be made
and ninetvas proH
eight. [ In effect April 16th, 1880. ]
Sureties released, when—by change in trust estate, 53 Cal. 451.
§ 1404. If new sureties be given to the satisfaction of
the judge, he may thereupon make an order that the
sureties who applied for relief shall not be liable on their
bond for any subsequent act, default, or misconduct o:
the executor or administrator.
§ 1405. If the executor or administrator neglects or
refuses to give new sureties, to the satisfaction of the
judge, on the return of the citation, or within such rea
sonable time as the judge shall allow, unless the surety
making the application shall consent to a longer exten
sion of time, the court or judge must, by order, revoke
his letters.
tl406.
ing sections
The of
applications
this chapter
authorized
may be heard
.by theand
nine
deter
premined at any time. All orders made therein must be
entered upon the minutes of the court. [In effect April
16th, 1880.J
§ 1407. The liability of principal and sureties upon
the bond of any executor, administrator, or guardian, is
in all cases to pay in the kind of money or currency in
which the principal is legally liable. [In effect July 1st,
1874.3
ARTICLE Vn.
Special Administrators and theib Powers and Duties.
§I 1412.
Ull. Special
Special administrator,
when appointed.
letters may he issued
out of term time.
§ 1413.
Preference
given
to
persons
to letters.
1414. Special administrator to giveentitled
bond and
take oath.
| 1415. Duties of special administrator.
§ 1416. When letters testamentary or of administration are granted.
special administrator's powers cease.
§ 1417. Special administrator to render account.
§ 1411. When there is delay in granting letters testa
mentary or of administration from any cause, or when
uch letters are granted " irregularly, or no sufficient bond
3 filed as required, or when no application is made for
uch letters, or when an executor or administrator dies,
it is suspended, or removed, the Superior Court, or a
udge thereof, must appoint a special administrator to
ollect and take charge of the estate of the decedent in
whatever county or counties the same may he found, and
o exercise such
other
powers
necessary
for the
■■reservation
of the
estate
; or as
he may
may he
direct
the puhlic
ad
ministrator of his county to take charge of the estate. [In
effect April 16th, 1880.1
§ 1412. The appointment may be made at any time,
and without notice, and must he made by entry upon the
minutes of the court, specifying the powers to be exer
cised by the administrator. Upon such order being en
tered, and after the person appointed has given bond, the
clerk must issue letters of administration to such person
inOath
conformity
and bond—see
withsec.
the1414.
order. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
§ 1413. In making the appointment of a special admin
istrator, the court or judge must give preference to the
person entitled to letters testamentary or of administra
tion, but no appeal must he allowed from the appoint
ment.
Person [In
entitled
effect
to letters—sec.
April 16th,1365
1880.]
et sea.
§ 1414. Before any letters issue to any special admin
istrator, he must give bond in such sum as the court or
judge may direct, with sureties to the satisfaction of the
court or judge, conditioned for the faithful performance of
his duties; and he must take the usual oath, and have
the same indorsed on his letters. [In effect April 16th,
1880.]
Oath and bond of administrator, etc.—see sees. 1387-1407.
§ 1415. The special administrator must collect and pre
serve for the executor or administrator, all the goods,
chattels, debts, and effects of the decedent ; all incomes,
rents, issues, and profits, claims, and demands of the es
tate; must take the charge and management of, enter
upon, and preserve from damage, waste, and injury, the
real estate; and for any such ancrall necessary purposes
may commence and maintain or defend suits and other
legal proceedings as an administrator: he may sell such
perishable property as the court may order to be sold,
and exercise such other powers as are conferred upon him
by his appointment, but in no case is he liable to an action
by any creditor on a claim against the decedent. [In ef
fect April 16th, 1880. J
Special administrator—powers as to suits, 50 Cal. 299: alleged con
version by, 60 Cal. 616.
§ 1416. When letters testamentary or of administra
tion on the estate of the decedent have been granted, the
powers of the special administrator cease, and he must
forthwith deliver to the executor or administrator all the
property and effects of the decedent in his hands; and
the executor or administrator may prosecute to final judg
ment any suit commenced by the special administrator.
§ 1417. The special administrator must render an ac
count, on oath, of his proceedings, in a like manner as
other administrators are required to do.
Account of administrator, etc.—sec. 1622 et teq.
article viii.
Wills found after Letters of administration Granted,
and Miscellaneous Provisions.
§ 1423. On proof of will, after grant of letters of administration*, let
tersofrevoked,
g 1424. Power
executor in such a case.
5 1425. Remaining
colleaguesadministrator
are disqualified.
or executor to continue when his
§ 1426. Who to act when all acting aro incompetent.
§ 1427. Executor or administrator may resign, when. Court to appoint
successor. Liability of outgoer.
1428. All acts of executor, etc., validuntil his power is revoked.
1429. Transcript of court minutes to be evidence.
§ 1423. If, after granting letters of administration on
the ground of intestacy, a will of the decedent is duly
proved and allowed by the court, the letters of adminis
tration must be revoked, and the power of the adminis
trator ceases, and he must render an account of his ad
ministration within such time as the court shall direct.
Letters must be revoked—but formal removal unnecessary, 49 Cal.
t 497.
Account of administration—sec. 622 et acq.
§ 1424. In such case, the executor or the administrator
with the will annexed is entitled to demand, sue for, re
cover and collect all the rights, goods, chattels, debts and
effects, of the decedent remaining unadministered, and
may prosecute to final judgment any suit commenced by
the administrator before the revocation of his letters of
administration.
Inventory and collection of decedent's effects—sees. 1443-1463.
§ X425. In case any one of several executors or admin
istrators to whom letters are granted, dies, becomes luna
tic, is convicted of an infamous crime, or otherwise be
comes incapable of executing the trust, or in case the
letters testamentary or of administration are revoked or
annulled, with respect to any one executor or administra
tor, the remaining executor or administrator must proceed
to complete the execution of the will or administration.
§ 1426. If all such executors or administrators die or
become incapable, or the power and authority of all of
them is revoked, the court must issue letters of Adminis
tration, with the will annexed or otherwise, to the widow
or next of kin, or others, in the same order and manner
as is directed in relation to original letters of administra
tion. The administrators so appointed must give bond in
the like penalty, with like sureties and conditions, as
hereinbefore required of administrators, and shall have
the like power and authority. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
Letters of administration—order and manner of granting, sec. 1365
etseq.: with will annexed, sec. 1356; 32 Cal. 436.
Oath and bond—sees. 1387-1407.
Power and authority—sec. 1581 et seq.
§ 1427. Any executor or administrator may, at any
time, by writing, filed in the Superior Court, resign his
appointment, having first settled his accounts and deliv
ered up all the estate to the person whom the court shall
appoint to receive the same. If, however, by reason of
any delays in such settlement and delivering up of the
estate, or for any other cause, the circumstances of the
estate or the rights of those interested therein require it,
the court may, at any time before settlement of accounts
and delivering up of the estate is completed, revoke the
letters of such executor or administrator, and appoint in
his stead an administrator, either special or general, in
the same manner as is directed in relation to original
letters of administration. The liability of the outgoing
executor or administrator, or of the sureties on his bond,
shall not be in any manner discharged, released, or af
fected by such appointment or resignation. [In effect
April 16th, 1880.]
Presumptions—as to resignation, etc., on collateral attack on pro
ceedings, 23 Cal. 182.
Resignation not at will—of administrator, 10 Cal. 116; 20 Cal. 288.
Compensation—where administrator resigns, 3 Cal. 287 ; 5 Cal. 437.
Settled his accounts—acceptance improper before, 10 Cal. 110.
Delivered up estate—to person appointed, 5 Cal. 437.
Code Civ. Proc—40.
§ 1428. All acts of an executor or administrator, as
such, before the revocation of his letters testamentary or
of administration, are as valid to all intents and purposes
as if such executor or administrator had continued law
fully to execute the duties of his trust.
Executor do son tort—at common law, 17 Cal. 182: now probablr
obsolete, 50 Cal. 388.
§ 1429. A transcript from the minutes of the court,
showing the appointment of any person as executor or
administrator, together with the certificate of the clerk,
under his Jiand and the seal of his court, that such person
has given bond and been qualified, and that letters testa
mentary or of administration have been issued to him
and have not been revoked, shall have the same effect in
evidence
Letters and
as bond
the letters
recorded—sec.
themselves.
1387.
ARTICLE IX.
Disqualification of Judges and Transfers op Adminis
trations.
§ 1430. When Judge not to act.
jj 1431. Judge
being disqualified, proceedings to be transferred, and
■where.
§ 1432. Transfer not to change right to administer. Retransfer, how
made.
§ 1433. When
proceedings to be returned to original court.
§ 1430. No will shall be admitted to probate, or letters
testamentary or of administration granted, before any
judge who is interested as next of kin to the decedent, or
as a legatee or devisee under the will, or when he is named
as executor or trustee in the will, or is a witness thereto,
or is in any other manner interested or disqualified from
acting. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
Judge interested in estate—disqualified, where agent for heirs, 37
Cal. 190: where interested in a sale of the realty, Tracy «. Colby, June
11th, 1880, 5 P»c. C. L. J. 534.
§ 1431. When a petition is filed in the Superior Court
praying for admission to probate of a will, or for granting
letters testamentary or of administration, or when pro
ceedings are pending in the Superior Csurt for the settle
ment of an estate, and there is no judge of said court
qualified to act, an order must be made transferring the
proceeding to the Superior Court of an adjoining county;
and the clerk of the court ordering the transfer must
transmit to the clerk of the court to which the proceeding
is ordered to be transferred, a certified copy of the order,
and all the papers on file in his office in the proceeding;
and thereafter the court to which tho proceeding is trans
ferred shall exercise the same authority and jurisdiction
over the estate, and all matters relating to the adminis
tration thereof, as if it had original jurisdiction of the
estate. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
Change of venae—to obtain impartial trial, 15 Cal. 220; 37 Cal. 190;
46 Cal. 249: generally, Bees. 397-398.
§ 1432. The transfer of a proceeding from one court to
another, as provided for in the preceding section, shall
not affect the right of any person to letters testamentary
or of administration on the estate transferred, but the
same persons are entitled to letters testamentary or of
administration on the estate, in the order hereinafter pro
vided. If, before the administration is closed of any es
tate so transferred as herein provided, another person is
elected orsuch
appointed,
and was
qualified
as judge
of the court
■wherein
proceeding
originally
commenced,
who
is not disqualified to act in the settlement of the estate,
and the causes for which the proceeding was transferred
no longer exist, any person interested in the estate may
have the proceeding returned to the court from which it
was originally transferred, by filing a petition setting
forth these facts, and moving the court therefore. [In ef
fect April 16th, 1880.]
the§ preceding
1433. On section
hearingtothebemotion,
set out ifinthe
thefacts
petition
required
are sat
by •
isfactorily shown, and it further appears to the court that
the convenience of parties interested would be pro
moted by such change, the judge must make an order
transferring the proceeding back to the court where it
was originally commenced; and the clerk of the court or
dering the transfer must transmit to the clerk of the court
in which the proceeding was originally commenced, a
certified copy of the order, and all the original papers on
file in his office in the proceeding; and the court where
the proceeding was originally commenced shall thereafter
have jurisdiction and power to make all necessary orders
and decrees to close up the administration or the estate.
[In effect April 16th, 1880.]
§ 1436. Whenever a judge of a Superior Court has
reason
ible information,
to believe, that
fromany
his executor
own knowledge,
or administrator
or from cred-.
has
wasted, embezzled, or mismanaged, or is about to waste
or embezzle the property of the estate committed to his
charge, or has committed or is about to commit a fraud
upon the estate, or is incompetent to act, or has perma
nently removed from the State, or has wrongfully neg
lected the estate, or has long neglected to perform any
act as such executor or administrator, he must, by an or
der entered upon the minutes of the court, suspend the
powers of such executor or administrator, until the mat
ter is investigated. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
Misconduct of executor—as to inventory, sec. 1450: as to exhibit
and account, sees. 1626, 1630.
Suspension of executor, etc.—done at chambers, sec. 166: discre
tion, 6 Cal. 666.
§ 1437. When such suspension is made, notice thereof
must be given to the executor or administrator, and he
must be cited to appear and show cause why his letters
should not be revoked. If he fail to appear in obedience
to the citation, or, if appearing, the court is satisfied that
there exists cause for his removal, his letters must be re
voked, and letters of administration granted anew, as the
case may require.
§ 1438. At the hearing, any person interested in the
estate may appear and file nis allegations in writing,
showing that the executor or administrator should be re
moved; to which the executor or administrator may de
mur or answer, as hereinbefore provided. The issues
raised must be heard and determined by the court.
^As hereinbefore provided—demurring or answering, compare sec.
Determined by the court—My. P. Rep. 68.
§ 1439. If the executor or administrator has absconded
or conceals himself, or has removed or absented himself
from the State, notice may be given him of the pendency
of the proceedings by publication, in such manner as the
court may direct, and the court may proceed upon such
notice as if the citation had been personally served.
Compare—sec. 1630.
§ 1440. In the proceedings authorized by the preceding
sections of this article, for the removal of an executor or
administrator, the court may compel his attendance by at
tachment, and may compel him to answer questions, on
oath, touching his administration, and, upon his refusal
so to do, may commit him until he obey, or may revoke
his letters, or both.
Compelling obedience—compare, sees. 1627, 1628: as to contempt,
see sees. 1209, ,1219.
§ 1443. Every executor or administrator' must make
and return to the court, within three months after his ap
pointment, a true inventory and appraisement of all the
estate of the decedent, including the homestead, if any,
which has come to his possession or knowledge. [In effect
April 16th, 1880.]
Within three months—amdt. 1880: previously at first term after
appointment: but as to abolition of terms, see sec. 73n.
Inventory—when unnecessary, 1 Cal. 488: receivable at chambers,
sec. 166: estoppel as to, My. P. Rep. 203: is not basis of commissions,
43 Cal. 543.
tl444. To make the appraisement, the court, or a
ge thereof, must appoint three disinterested persons,
(any two of whom may act) who are entitled to receive a
reasonable compensation for their services, not to exceed
rive dollars per day, to be allowed by the court or judge.
The appraisers must, with the inventory, file a verified
account of their services and disbursements. If any part
of the estate is in any other county than that in which
letters issued, appraisers thereof may be appointed, either
by the court or judge having jurisdiction1 of the estate, or
by the court or judge of such other county, on request of
the court or judge having jurisdiction. [In effect April
16th, 1880. ]
Appraisers—duty as to homestead, sees. 1476, 1486: appointed at
chambers, sec. 166.
§ 1445. Before proceeding to the execution of their
duty, the appraisers, before any officer authorized to ad
minister oaths, must take and subscribe an oath, to be
attached to the inventory, that they will truly, honestly,
and impartially appraise the property exhibited to them,
according to the best of their knowledge and ability.
They must then proceed to estimate and appraise the
property ; each article must be set down separately, with
the value thereof in dollars and cents, in figures, opposite
to the articles, respectively ; the inventory must contain
all the estate of the decedent, real and personal, a state
ment of all debts, partnerships, and other interests, bonds,
mortgages, notes, and other securities for the payment of
money belonging to the decedent, specifying the name of
the debtor in each security, the date, the sum originally
payable, the indorsements thereon, (if any) with their
dates, and the sum which, in the judgment of the ap
praiser, may be collected on each debt, interest, or secu
rity ; the inventory must show, so far as the same can be
ascertained by the executor or the administrator, what
portion of the property is community property, and what
portion is the separate property of the decedent.
§ 1446. The inventory must also contain an account of
all monies belonging to the decedent which have come to
the hands of the executor or administrator; and if none,
the fact must be so stated in the inventory. If the whole
estate consists of money, there need not bo an appraise
ment, but an inventory must be made and returned as in
other cases.
§ 1447. The naming of a person as executor does not
thereby discharge him from any just claim which the
testator has against him, but the Claim must be included
in the inventory, and the executor is liable for the same,
as for so much money in his hands, when the debt or de
mand becomes due.
§ 1448. The discharge or bequest in a will, of any debt
or demand of the testator against the executor named,
or any other person, is not valid against the creditors of
the decedent, but is a specific bequest of the debt or de
mand. It must be included in the inventory, and if nec
essary, applied in the payment of the debts. If not nec
essary for that purpose, it must be paid in the same
manner and proportion as other specific legacies.
Demand—or claim, meaning of, 52 Cal. 568.
§ 1449. The inventory must be signed by the ap
praisers, and the executor or administrator must take
and subscribe an oath before an officer authorized to ad
minister oaths, that the inventory contains a true state
ment of all the estate of the decedent which has come to
his knowledge and possession, and particularly of all
money belonging to the decedent, and of all just claims
of the decedent against the affiant. The oath must be
indorsed upon or annexed to the inventory.
§ 1450. If an executor or administrator neglects or re
fuses to return the inventory within the time prescribed,
or within such further time, not exceeding two months,
which the court or judge shall for reasonable cause allow,
the court may, up'on notice, revoke the letters testa
mentary or of administration, and the executor or admin
istrator is liable on his bond for any injury to the estate,
or any person interested therein, arisingfrom such failure.
§ 1451. Whenever property not mentioned in an in
ventory that is made and filed, comes to the possession
or knowledge of an executor or administrator, he must
cause the same to be appraised in the manner prescribed
in this article, and an inventory thereof to be returned
within two months after the discovery ; and the making
of such inventory may be enforced, after notice, by at
tachment or removal from office.
Enforced by attachment, etc.—compare sec. 1440.
§ 1452. The executor or administrator is entitled to
the possession of all the real and personal estate of the
decedent, and to receive the rents and profits of the real
estate until the estate is settled, or until delivered over
by order of the court to the heirs or devisees ; and must
keep in good tenantable repair all houses, buildings, and
fixtures thereon which are under his control. The heirs or
devisees may themselves, or jointly with the executor or
administrator, maintain an action for the possession of
the real estate, or for the purpose of quieting title to the
same, against any one except the executor or adminis
trator ; but this section shall not be so construed as re
quiring them so to do. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
Authority of executors-sec. 1355n.
Possession of estate—see sec. 1581 ; 15 Cal. 259: personalty, right to,
7Cal.215;
620;etc.,
28 Cal.
Cal.husband
507 : by coexecutor,
33 Cal.
658:
when that 20ofCal.
heirs,
sec. 182:
1581 29: by
of devisee and
execu
trix, 42 Cal. 462: as to partnership property, see sec. 1585: administra
tor's right of, against heirs, 20 Cal. 620 ; 47 Cal. 168; 53 Cal. 655; Paget;.
Tucker, Feb. 4th, 1880, 4 Pac. C. L. J. 538.
Until delivered to heirs—see sec. 1453.
Action by executor, etc.—sees. 1458, 1581, 1582 et teg. ; 14 Cal. 117; 29
Cal. 510; 31 Cal. 33.
Heirs or devisees—action by, not compulsory, amdt. 1880: when
heir, etc., may maintain ejectment, 18 Cal. 458; 20 Cal. 620; 51 Cal. 146.
• Joining heir—erroneous In suit as to personalty, 23 Cal. 16.
§ 1453. Unless it satisfactorily appear to the court that
the rents, issues, and profits of the real estate for a longer
period are necessary to be received by the executor or ad
ministrator, wherewith to pay the debts of the decedent, or
that it will probably be necessary to sell the real estate for
the payment of such debts, the court, at the end of the time
limited for the presentation of claims against the estate,
must direct the executor or administrator to deliver pos
session of all the real estate to the heirs-at-law or de
visees. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
Delivery of possession—before amdt. 1880, at end of ten monthsfrom first publication of notice to creditors.
Administratrix not to dispose of property, etc.—50 Cal. 471.
§ 1458. If any person, before the granting of letters
testamentary or of administration, embezzles or alienates
any of the monies, goods, chattels, or effects of a de
cedent, he is chargeable therewith and liable to an ac
tion by the executor or administrator of the estate, for
double the value of the property so embezzled or alien
ated, to be recovered for the benefit of the estate.
Action by executors, etc.—for conversion, 14 Cal. 250; 29 Cal. 507:
generally, sees. 1452, 1460, 1581 et seq.
§ 1459. If any executor, administrator, or other per
son interested in the estate of a decedent, complains to
the Superior Court, or a judge thereof, on oath, that any
person is suspected to have concealed, embezzled, smug
gled, conveyed away, or disposed of any monies, goods,
or chattels of the decedent, or has in his possession or
knowledge any deeds, conveyances, bonds, contracts, or
other writings, which contain evidences of or tend to dis
close the right, title, interest, or claim of the decedent to
any real or personal estate, or any claim or demand, or
any lost will, the said court or judge may cite such per
son to appear before such court, and may examine him on
oath upon the matter of such complaint. If such person
is not in the county where the decedent dies, or where
letters have been granted, he may be cited and examined
either before the Superior Court of the county where he
is found, or. before the Superior Court of the county
where the decedent dies, or where letters have been
granted. But if, in the latter case, he appears and is
found innocent, his necessary expenses must be allowed
him out of the estate. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
Section inapplicable—to transactions after death of decedent, My.
P. Kep. &9.
§ 1460. If the person so cited refuses to appear and
submit to an examination, or to answer such interroga
tories as may be put to him, touching the matters of the
complaint, the court may, by warrant for that purpose,
commit him to the county jail, there to remain in close
custody until he submits to the order of the court, or is
discharged according to law. If, upon such examina
tion, it appears that he has concealed, embezzled, smug
gled, conveyed away, or disposed of any monies, goods,
or chattels of the decedent, or that he has in his possession
or knowledge any deeds, conveyances, bonds, contracts,
or other writings containing evidences of or tending to dis
close the right, title, interest, or claim of the decedent to
any real or personal estate, claim, or demand, or any lost
will of the decedent, the court may make an order re
quiring such person to disclose his knowledge thereof to
the executor or administrator, and may commit him to
the county jail, there to remain until the order is com
plied with, or he is discharged according to law; and all
such interrogatories and answers must be in writing,
signed by the party examined, and filed in the court.
The order for such disclosure made upon such examina
tion shall be prima facie evidence of the right of the ex
ecutor or administrator to such property in any action
brought for the recovery thereof; and any judgment re
covered therein must be for double the value of the prop
erty as assessed by the court or jury, or for return of the
property and damages in addition thereto, equal to the
value of such property. In addition to the examination
of the party, witnesses may "be produced and examined
on either side. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
Contempt—sees. 1209, 1219.
§ 1461. The Superior Court, or a judge thereof, upon
the complaint, on oath, of any executor or administrator,
may cite any person who has been intrusted with any
part of the estate of the decedent to appear before such
court, and require him to render a full account, on oath,
of any monies, goods, chattels, bonds, accounts, or other
property or papers belonging to the estate, which have
come to his possession in trust for the executor or ad
ministrator, and of his proceedings thereon; and if the
person so cited refuses to appear and render such ac
count, the court may proceed against him as provided in
the preceding section. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
§ 1464. When a person dies, leaving a widow or minor
children, the widow or children, until letters are granted
and the inventory is returned, are entitled to remain in
possession of the homestead, of all the wearing apparel
of the family, and of all the household furniture of the
decedent, and are also entitled to a reasonable provision
for their support, to be allowed by the Superior Court, or
a judge thereof. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
Occupying homestead—until letters granted, 15 Cal. 47 : rent for,
after return of Inventory, My. P. Eep. 55.
Household furniture—mortgaged, allotted to widow, My. P. Eep.
227.
Other personal property—widow has not control of, 29 Cal. 513.
Provisions for support—of family, sees. 1466, 1467.
§ 1465. Upon the return of the inventory, or at any
subsequent time during the administration, the court may,
on its own motion, or on petition therefore, set apart for
the use of the surviving husband or wife, or, in case of
his or her death, to the minor children of the decedent,
all the property exempt from execution, including the
homestead selected, designated, and recorded; provided, such
or from
homestead
the separate
was selected
property,
fromofthe
thecommon
persons property,
selecting .
or joining in tbe selection of the same. If none has been
selected, designated, and recorded, or in case the homestead
was selected by the survivor out of the separate property of
the decedent, the decedent not having joined therein, the
court must select, designate, and set apart, and cause to
be recorded, a homestead for the use of the surviving
husband or wife and the minor children ; or if there be
no surviving husband or wife, then for the use of the
minor children, in the manner provided in article two of
this chapter, out of the common property, or if there be
no common property, then out of the real estate belong
ing to the decedent. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
Homestead—nature of estate.
Separate property of person selecting, etc.—amdt. 1880: compare
sec. 1474, and 50 Cal. 541.
§ 1466. If the amount set apart be insufficient for the
support of the widow and children, or either, the court
or a judge thereof must make such reasonable allowance
out of the estate as shall bo necessary for the mainten
ance of the family, according to their circumstances, dur
ing the progress of the settlement of the estate, which,
in case of an insolvent estate, must not be longer than
one year after granting letters testamentary or of adminis
tration. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
Familyallowance—marital basis for, My. P. Rep. 1 : maintenance ac
cording to circumstances, 39 Cal. 80.
§ 1467. Any allowance made by the court or judge, in
accordance with the provisions of this article, must be
paid in preference to all other charges, except funeral
charges and expenses of administration; and any such
allowance, whenever made, may, in the discretion of the
court or judge, take effect from the death of the decedent.
§ 1468. "When property is- set apart for the use of the
family by the Superior Court, such property shall be for
Code Civ. Peoo.—41.
•the benefit of the several patties, as provided in section
fourteen hundred and sixty-rive of this Code. [In effect
April 16th, 1880.]
Where widow has a maintenance—sec. 1470.
§ 1469. If, upon the return of the inventory of the
estate of a deceased person, it shall appear therefrom
that the value of the whole estate does not exceed the
sum of iifteen hundred dollars, and if there be a widow
or minor children of the deceased, the court or a judge
thereof shall, by order, require all persons interested to
appear on a day fixed, to show cause why the whole of
said estate should not be assigned for the use and support
of the family of the deceased. Notice thereof shall be
given and proceedings had in the same manner as pro
vided in sections one thousand six hundred and thirtythree, one thousand six hundred and thirty-five, and one
thousand mx hundred and thirty-eight of this Code. If,
upon the hearing, the court rinds that the value of the
estate does not exceed the sum of fifteen hundred dollars,
it shall, by a decree for that purpose, assign for the use
and support of the widow and minor children, if there be
a widow and minor children, and if no widow, then for
the children, if there be any, and if no children, then for
the widow, the whole of the estate, after the payment of
the expenses of the last illness of the deceased, funeral
charges, and expenses of administration, and there must
be no further proceedings in the administration, unless
further estate be discovered. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
§ 1470. If the widow has a maintenance derived from
her owu property equal to the portion set apart to her by
the preceding sections of this article, the whole property
so set apart, other than the homestead, must go to the
minor children. [In effect April 16th, 1880 ]
article ii.
Oe the Homestead.
55 1474.
survivor
to homestead.
1475. Bights
Selectedof and
recorded
homestead set off to person entitled.
Subsisting
liens
be paid
solvent estate.
5 1476. Appraisers to carvetoout
of thebyoriginal,
exceeding five thou
sand dollars in value, a homestead, and report the same.
§ 1477. Report of the appraisers. Majority and minority, which may
§ 1478. Daybotoconfirmed.
bo set for confirming or rejecting the report of_ the ap
praisers.
Appeal.other appraisers appointed. If again re
§ 1479. If report rejected,
jected, partition suit to be brought.
§ 1480. Instead of dividing the homestead, who may take a deed there
§ 1481. If no homestead Is selected and recorded prior to death of
decedent,
may besuit
petitioned
for. Court, when. Pro
§ 1482. Court
to directone
partition
Inthe District
ceedings thereon.
§ 1483. If property
Is
common
or
separate,
court to cause appraise
ment and admeasurement to be made.
§ 1484. Newatappraisement,
when
ordered.
Insteadof
appraised value,public sale to be ordered,deedingproperty
when.
§ 1485. Costs, to whom chargeable. Persons succeeding to rights of
homestead owners have all their powers and rights.
§ 1486. Certified copies of certain orders to be recorded.
§ 1474. If the homestead selected by the husband and
wife, or either of them, during their coverture, and re
corded while both were living, was selected from the
community property, or from the separate property of the
person selecting or joining in the selection of the same,
it vests, on the death of the husband or wife, absolutely
in the survivor. If the homestead was selected from the
separate property of either the husband or the wife, with
out his or her consent, it vests, on the death of the person
from whose property it was selected, in his or her heirs,
subject to the power of the Superior Court to assign it for
a limited period to the family of the decedent. In either
case it is not subject to the payment of any debt or liabil
ity contracted by or existing against the husband and
wife, or either of them, previous to or at the time of the
death of such husband or wife, except as provided in
the Civil Code. [In effect April lGth, 1880.]
Homestead—generally, and setting apart, sec. 1465, notes.
■*
Separate property of person selecting, etc.—amdt. 1880.
Survivorship of homestead—out of separate property, 50 Cal. 539:
changes in Codes, 52 Cal. 294 : before such changes. 49 Cal. 198;
§ 1475. If the homestead selected and recorded prior
to the death of the decedent be returned in the inventory
appraised at not exceeding five thousand dollars in value,
or was previously appraised as provided in the Civil Code,
and such appraised value did not exceed that sum, the
Superior Court must, by order, set it off to the persons in
whom title is vested by the preceding section. If there
he subsisting liens or encumbrances on the homestead, the
claims secured thereby must be presented and allowed as
other claims against the estate. If the funds of the estate
be adequate to pay all claims against the estate, the
claims so secured: must be paid out of such funds. If the
funds of the estate be not sufficient for that purpose, the
claims so secured shall be paid proportionately with other
claims allowed, and the liens or encumbrances on the home
Rtead shall only be enforced against the homestead, for
any deficiency remaining after such payment. [In effect
April lGth, 1880.]
Homestead selected during decedent's lifetime—effect of setting
apart, 41 t'al. 34.
Liens or encumbrances—on homestead, former effect of setting
apart mortgaged premises, 45 Cal. 436.
§ 1476. If the homestead, as selected and recorded, be
returned in the inventory appraised at more than five
thousand dollars, the appraisers must, before they make
their return, ascertain and appraise the value of the
homestead at the time the same was selected, and if such
value exceeded live thousand dollars, or if the home
stead was appraised as provided in the Civil Code, and
such appraised value exceeded that sum, the appraisers
must determine whether the premises can be divided
without material injury, and it they find that they can
be thus divided, they must admeasure and set apart to
the parties entitled thereto, such portion of the premises,
including the dwelling-house, as will amount in value to
the sum of five thousand dollars, and make report thereof,
giving the metes, bounds, and full description of the por
tion set apart as a homestead. If the appraisers find that
the premises exceeded in value, at the time of their se
lection, the sum of five thousand dollars, and that they
caunot be divided without material injury, they must re
port such finding, and thereafter the court may make an
order for the sale of the premises and the distribution of
the proceeds to the parties entitled thereto. [In effect
July
Appraisement—generally,
1st, 1874.]
^ 1444.
§ 1477. Any two of the appraisers concurring may dis
charge the duties imposed upon the three, and make the
report. A dissenting report may be made by the third
appraiser. The report must state fully the acts of the
appraisers. Both reports may be heard and considered
by the court in determining a confirmation or rejection of
the majority report, but the minority report must in no
case be confirmed.
§ 1478. When the report of the appraisers is filed, the
court must set a day for hearing any objections thereto,
irorn any one interested in the estate. Notice of the hear
ing must be given for such time, and in such manner as
the court may direct. If the court be satisfied that the
report is correct, it must be confirmed, otherwise rejected.
In case the report is rejected, the court may appoint new
appraisers to examine and report upon the homestead,
and similar proceedings may be had for the confirmation
or rejection of their report as upon the first report. [In
effect July 1st, 1874.]
§ 1479, 1480, 1481, 1482, 1483, 1484 are repealed. [In
effect July 1st, 1874.]
§ 1485. The costs of all proceedings in the Superior
Court provided for in this chapter, must be paid by the
estate as expenses of administration. Persons succeed
ing by purchase or otherwise to the interests, rights, and
title of successors to homesteads, or to the right to have
homesteads set apart to them, as in this chapter provided,
have all the rights and benefits conferred by law on the
persons whose interests and rights they acquire. [In ef
fect April 16th, 1880.]
Costs of proceedings—payable out of estate, My. P. Rep. 158.
§ 1486. A certified copy of every final order made in
pursuance of this article, by which a report is confirmed,
property assigned, or sale confirmed, must be recorded in
the office of the recorder of the county where the home
stead
Certified
property
copy—recording,
is situated.
§ 1490. Every executor or administrator must, imme
diately after bis appointment, cause to be published in
some newspaper ot the county, if there be one, if not,
then in such newspaper as may be designated by the
court, a notice to the creditors of the decedent, requiring
all persons having claims against him to exhibit them,
with the necessary vouchers, to the executor or adminis
trator, at the place of his residence or business, to be speci
fied in the notice; such notice must be published as often
as the judge or court shall direct, but not less than once
a week for four weeks; the court or judge may also direct
additional notice by publication' or posting. In case such
executor or administrator resigns, or is removed, before
the time expressed in the notice, his successor must give
notice only for the unexpired time allowed for such pre
sentation.
Publication of notice—how often, § 1705.
Claims to be exhibited—scope of word " claims," 9 Cal. 636 : 21 Cal.
25; 27 Cal. 850.
Two months' neglect—to give notice, causes revocation of letters,
sec. 1511.
§ 1491. The time expressed in the notice must be ten
months after its first publication when the estate exceeds
in value the sum of ten thousand dollars, aud four months
when it does not.
Figures of appraisement govern—My. P. Rep. 203.
§ 1492. After the notice is given, as required by the
preceding section, a copy thereof, with the affidavit of due
publication, or of publication and posting, must be filed,
and upon such affidavit or other testimony to the satisfac
tion of the court, an order or decree showing that due
notice to creditors has been given, and directing that such
order or decree be entered in the minutes and recorded,
must
Affidavit
be made
of publication—of
by the court.notice, sees. 2010, 2011.
§ 1493. All claims arising upon contracts, whether the
same
due, or
mustany
be presented
■yilthinbethedue,
timenot
limited
in contingent,
the notice, and
claim not
so presented
is barred
forever;
that
•when
it is made
to appear
by theprovided,
affidavithotoever,
of the claim
ant, to the satisfaction of the court, or a judge thereof,
tuat the claimant had no notice as provided in this chap
ter, by reason of being out of the State, it may be pre
sented
anyeffect
timeApril
before
decree of distribution is
• entered.at [In
16th,a 1880.]
Claim—action,
none unless
claim
presented,
1500: after
tion,
sec. 1498 : pending
at death,
claim
must besec.
presented,
sec.rejec
1502:
affidavit, sec. 1494 : allowance or rejection of, sees. 1496-1498, 1503 : My.
P. Rep. 103: amendment, 23 Cal. 362 : contingent, sees. 1648: 18 Cal. 422:
34 Cal.
Cal. 263;
My.P.Rep.46;
due,judgment
when, findings
should
show,
53
84: executor,
by, sec.49Cal.Ill:
1510: against,
on, sees.
1504,1509:
interest on, sees. 1494, 1513: Judge of Superior Court, sec. 1495: Judg
ment, against decedent, where, sec. 1505: lien, see Mortgage: limita
tions,
by statute
1499, 1501; meaning
of word,
52
Cal. 568:barred
mortgage,
or lienof,on,sees.
sees.353,
1475,1497,1500:
My.P.Kep.
184: not
due, when not barred, 19 Cal. 85: out of State, where claimant, 22 Cal.
96: partner of surviving, contingent, 34 Cal. 263 : presentation of,
proper before publication of notice to creditors, 19 Cal. 330: on note,
not a demand of payment, 49 Cal. 469: object of, 10 Cal. 559: examina
tion
on, by
judge,159:
sec.trust
1499:fund,
timeaslimited!
for,518;
barred
If later,
Cal.
603; My.
P. Rep.
to, 22 Cal.
31 Cal.
17: on34mort
gage, or Hen, sec. 1500: without, pledge may be redeemed by adminis
trator, My. P. Rep. 87 : not required of claimant of specific property, 9
Cal. 643 : necessity of, 18 Cal. 422 : objection to omission, when too late,
42 Cal. 130; reference of, sec. 1507: signification of word, 6 Cal. 666 ; 9
Cal.
636;sec.
21 1512:
Cal. 25;
27 Cal.sense,
350; 38demand,
Cal. 87;when
52 Cal.
statement
of
claims,
statutory
not568:
claim
in, 10 Cal.
380: taxes, when not, 43 Cal. 492; 50 Cal. 522, and see sec 1669.
§ 1494. Every claim which is due, when presented to
the executor or administrator, must be supported by the
affidavit of tho claimant, or some one in his behalf, thai
the amount is justly due, that no payments have been
made thereon which are not credited, and that there are
no offsets to the same, to the knowledge of the affiant.
If the claim be not due when presented, or be contingent,
the particulars of such claim must be stated. When the
affidavit is made by a person other than the claimant, he
must set forth in tho affidavit the reason why it is not
made by the claimant. The oath may be taken before
any officer authorized to administer oaths. The executor
or administrator may also require satisfactory vouchers
or proofs to bo produced in support of the claim. If the
estate be insolvent, no greater rate of interest shall be
allowed upon any claim after the first publication of no
tice to creditors than is allowed on judgments obtained in
the Superior Court. [In effect April loth, 1880.]
Every claim—signification, see under Claim, sec. 149tn: on mortgage.or Hen, see sec. 1500 and note.
Affidavit—by nerson other than claimant, formerly held Improper*
14 Cal. 170; need of, 18 Cal. 423.
Section—when not to be invoked, 42 Cal. 174.
Contingent claim—see 18 Cal. 422; 40 Cal. 111.
Interest—on claim, 14 Cal. 172: waiver of, My. P. Rep. 235: on judg"
ment against administrator, 10 Cal. 08: where judgment on rejected
claim, 18 Cal. 376.
Insolvent estate—rate of interest restricted, My. V. Bep. 55.
§ 1495. Any judge of a Superior Court may present
a claim against the estate of a decedent for allowance
to the executor or administrator thereof, and if the ex
ecutor or administrator allows the claim, he must in
writing designate some other judge of tho Superi'or Court
of the same or an adjoining county, who, upon the pre
sentation of such claim to him, is vested with power to
allow or reject it, and the judge presenting such claim, in
case of its rejection by the executor or administrator, or
by such judge as shall have acted upon it, has the same
right to suo in a proper court for its recovery as other per
sons have when their claims against an estate are rejected.
[In effect April 10th, 1880.]
§ 1496. When a claim, accompanied by the affidavit
required in this chapter, is presented to the executor or
administrator, he must indorse thereon his allowance or
rejection, with the day and date thereof. If he allow the
claim, it must be presented to a judge of the Superior
Court for his approval, who must in the same manner indorse upon it his allowance or rejection. If the executor
or administrator, or the judge, refuse or neglect to in
dorse such allowance or rejection for ten days after the
claim has been presented to him, such refusal or neglect
may, at the option of the claimant, be deemed equivalent
to a rejection on the tenth day; and if the presentation
l>e made by a notary, the certificate of such notary, un
der seal, shall be prima facie evidence of such presenta
tion and the date thereof. If the claim be presented to
the executor or administrator before the expiration of the
time limited for the presentation of claims, the same is
presented in time, though acted upon by the executor or
administrator, and by the judge, after the expiration of
such time. If the claim be payable in a particular kind
of money or currency, it shall, if allowed, be payable only
in such money or currency. [In effect April Kith, 1880.]
Allowance of claim—by executor, verbal not enough, 46 Cal. 154:
bv one administrator, sufficient, 24 Cal. 491 : by judge, 49 Cal. 154; on
mortgage, effect of, 6 Cal.412 j generally, effect of, 18 CaL 422 ; 26 Cal. 421.
Rejection of claim—by executor's inaction, 34 Cal. 224: by judge,
grounds, 22 Cal. 99: further proofs before, 23 Cal. 363.
§ 1497. Every claim allowed by the executor or ad
ministrator, and approved by a judge of the Superior
Court, or a copy thereof, as hereinafter provided, must,
within thirty days thereafter, be filed in the court, and
be ranked among the acknowledged debts of the estate,
to be paid in due course of administration. If the claim
be founded on a bond, bill, note, or any other instrument,
a copy of such instrument must accompany the claim,
and the original instrument must be exhibited, if de
manded, unless it be lost or destroyed, in which case the
claimant must accompany his claim by his affidavit, con
taining a copy or particular description of such instru
ment, and stating its loss or destruction. If the claim, or
any part thereof, be secured by a mortgage, or other lien
whicli has been recorded in the office of the recorder of
the county in which the land affected by it lies, it shall
be sufficient to describe the mortgage or lien, and refer to
the date, volume, and page of its record. If, in any case,
the claimant has left any original voucher in the hands of
the executor or administrator, or suffered the same to be
filed in court, he may withdraw the same when a copy
thereof has been already, or is then, attached to his
claim. A brief description of every claim filed must be
entered by the clerk in the register, showing the name of
the claimant, the amount and character of the claim, rate
of interest, and date of allowance. [In effect April 16th,
1880.]
Allowed claim—status of, 6 CaJ. 666; 23 Cal. 363 ; 46 CaL 315; 49 Cal.
192: not Interest bearing, My. P. Rep. 129.
Filing claim—omission, when does not bar, 24 Cal. 491: provision
merely directory, 46 Cal. 304.
Claim secured by mortgage, etc.—see sec. 1500 and note, and see
27 Cal. 350.
§ 149a When a claim is rejected either by the exec
utor or administrator, or a judge of the Superior Court,
the holder must bring suit in the proper court against the
executor or administrator within three months after the
date of its rejection, if it be then due, or within two
months after it becomes due, otherwise the claim shall be
forever barred. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
Time for bringing snit-rsec. 1501 ; 2 Cal. 385; 19 Cal. 85: 34 Cal. 225.
§ 1499. No claim must be allowed by the executor or
administrator, or by a judge of the Superior Court, which
is barred by the Statute of Limitations. When a claim
is presented to a judge for his allowance, he may, in his
discretion, examine the claimant and others on oath, and
hear any legal evidence touching the validity of the
claim. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
Statnte19 ofCal.
Limitations—sees.
of, sec. 10353:Cal.
to prolong
period,
85; and time of 335-363
vacancy: object
immaterial,
386: va
cancy
in
administration
does
not
affect,
sec.
1501
and
note:
on judg
ment against decedent, 19 Cal. 97: allowance of barred claim,
not
binding, 23 Cal. 363 : note f»r outlawed debt, when valid, 50 Cal. 547 :
when debt barred, 51 Cal. 215.
§ 1500. No holder of any claim against an estate shall
maintain any action thereon, unless the claim is first pre
sented to the executor or administrator, except in the fol
lowing case : an action may be brought by any holder of
a mortgage or lien to enforce the same against the prop
erty of the estate subject thereto, where all recourse
against any other property of the estate is expressly
waived in the complaint; but no counsel fees shall be
recovered in such action unless such claim be so pre
sented. [In effect March loth, 1870.] ■
No action on claim—without presentation, 38 Cal. 3: claim barred
but not extinguished, 50 Cal. 145.
Mortgage on lien, presentation of claim on—need of, 6 Cal. 336:
24Cal.4J9;
27
Cal.
350;
46
Cal.
154,
222
;
52
Cal.
232:67:effect
of failurcas
bar, etc., see last subhead, and 10 Cal. 555; 21 Cal.
42Cal.493;
SOCal.
145;
Hlli.
S.
&
L.
Soc.
r.
Jordan,
May
19th,
1880
;
5
Pac.
J. 391:21
objection too late, 28 Cal. 568: subsequent proceedings, C.
sec.I*.1569:
Cal. 24; 24 cal. 499; 47 Cal. 154: unnecessary, where no relief asked
against estate, 42 Cal. 179; 45 Cal. 433: changes in statutes, see Hlb. S.
& L. Sbc. v. Jordan, May 19th, 1880 ; 5 Pac. C. L. J. 391.
§ 1501. The time during which there shall be a
vacancy in the administration must not be included in
any limitations herein prescribed. 
Period of vacancy—in administration, not counted, 10 Cal. 386; 19
Cal. 85.
§ 1502. If an action is pending against the decedent
at the time of his death, the plaintifff must in like manner
present his claim to the executor or administrator for
allowance or rejection, authenticated as required in other
cases; and no recovery shall be had in the action unless
proof be made of the presentations required.
Action pending at death—where death after verdict, claim need
notbe presented, 50 Cal. 42, andsee sec. 1506 : non-presentation of claim,
objection waived, My. P. Rep. 61; 52 Cal. 225.
§ 1503. Whenever any claim is presented to an exec
utor or administrator, or to a judge, and he is williDg to
allow the same in part, he must state in his indorsement
the amount he is willing to allow. If the creditor refuse
to accept the amount allowed in satisfaction of his claim,
he shall recover no costs in any action therefore brought
against the executor or administrator, unless he recover a
greater amount than that offered to be allowed. [In effect
April 16th, 1880.J
Claim—sec. 1493n.
§ 1504. A judgment rendered against an executor or
administrator, upon any claim for money against the
estate of his testator or intestate, only establishes the
claim in the same manner as if it had been allowed by
the executor or administrator and a judge; and the judg
ment must -be that the executor or administrator pay, in
due course of administration, the amount ascertained to
be due. A certified transcript of the original docket of
the judgment must be filed among the papers of the
estate in court. No execution must issue upon such
judgment, nor shall it create any lien upon the property
of the estate, or give to the judgment creditor any pri
ority of payment. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
Judgment against executor, etc.—by default, 9 Cal. 136: where at
tachment, 29 Cal. 359; 50 Cal. 365,367: interest, 18 Cal. 377: where de
fendants are joint obligors, see under next note.
Payable in due course of administration—proper form of judg
ments Cal. 363 : 32 Cal. 396; 34 Cal. 226: but absence not injurious, £
Cal. 127; 13 Cal. 136: on death of one of several joint obligors, 42 Cal.
131; 50 Cal. 530; amendment of judgment where personal, 46 Cal. 304.
No execution issuable—on judgment, 32 Cal. 376; 34 Cal. 224 ; 38 Cal.
378.
§ 1505. When any judgment has been rendered for or
against the testator, intestate in his lifetime, no execution
shall issue thereon after his death, except as provided in
section six hundred and eighty-six. A judgment against
the decedent for the recovery of money must be presented
to the executor or administrator like any other claim. If
execution is actually levied upon any property of the
decedent before his death, the same may be sold for the
satisfaction thereof ; and the officer making the sale must
account to the executor or administrator for any surplus
in his hands. A judgment creditor having a judgment
which was rendered against the testator or intestate in
his lifetime, may redeem any real estate of the decedent
from any sale under foreclosure or execution, in like
manner and with like effect as if the judgment debtor
were still living. [In effect March 28th, 1874.]
Application of section—to foreclosure of mortgage, 9 Cal. 127, 426;
14 Cal. G40.
Judgment against decedent—limitation of, 19 Cal. 97: claim on,
when may be presented by absent creditor, 22 Cal. 95.
Sold for the satisfaction thereof—generally, 37 Cal. 143 : where ex
ecution void, no satisfaction, 52 Cal. 345.
§ 1506. A judgment rendered against a decedent, dy
ing after verdict or decision on an issue of fact, but before
judgment is rendered thereon, is not a lien on the real
property of the decedent, tint is payable in due course of
administration.
§ 1507. If the executor or administrator doubts the
correctness of any claim presented to him, he may enter
into an agreement, in writing,- with the claimant, to refer
the matter in controversy to some disinterested person,
to be approved by the Superior Court, or a judge thereof.
Upon tiling the agreement and approval of such court or
judge, in the office of the clerk of the court for the county
in which the letters testamentary or of administration
were granted, the clerk must enter a minute of the order
referring the matter in controversy to the person so
selected; or, if the parties consent, a reference may be had
in the court; and the report of the referee, if confirmed,
establishes or rejects the claim the same as if it had been
allowed or rejected by the executor or administrator and
judge. [In effect July 16th, 1880.]
§ 1508. The referee must hear and determine the mat
ter, and make his report thereon to the court in which his
appointment is entered. The same proceedings shall be
had in all respects, and the referee shall have the same
powers, be entitled to the same compensation, and subject
to the same control, as in other cases of reference. The
court may remove the referee, appoint another in his
place, set aside or confirm his report, and adjudge costs,
as in actions against executors or administrators, and the
judgment of the court thereon shall be as valid and
effectual, in all respects, as if the same had been rendered
in a suit commenced by ordinary process.
Reference—sees. 638-645.
§ 1509. "When a judgment is recovered, with costs,
against any executor or administrator, he shall be indi
vidually liable for such costs, but they must be allowed
him in his administration accounts, unless it appears that
the suit or proceeding in which the costs were taxed was
prosecuted or defended without just cause.
Object of section—6 Cal. 169.
Allowed him in his administration accounts—6 Cal. 669.
§ 1510. If the executor or administrator is a creditor
of the decedent, his claim duly authenticated by affidavit
must be presented for allowance or rejection to a judge of
the Superior Court, and its allowance by the nudge is
sufficient evidence of its correctness, and must be paid as
other claims in due course of administration. If, how
ever, the judge reject the claim, action thereon may be
had against the estate by the claimant, and summons
must be served upon
attorney, at the expense of the estate, to defend the
action. If the claimant recover no judgment, he must
pay all costs, including defendant's reasonable attorney's
fees, to be fixed by the court. [In effect April 16th,
1880.]
Claim of executor, etc.—sole difference.from that of ordinary cred
itor, 10 Cal. 482.
Time for presentation—same as for other claims, 10 Cal. 482; 16 Cal.
434.
§ 1511. If an executor or administrator neglects, for
two months after his appointment, to give notice to cred
itors, as prescribed by this chapter, the court must revoke
his letters, and appoint some other person in his stead,
equally or the next in order entitled to the appointment.
§ 1512. At the same time at which he is required to
return his inventory, the executor or administrator must
also return a statement of all claims against the estate
which have been presented to him, if so required by the
court, or a judge thereof, and from time to time thereafter
he must present a statement of claims subsequently pre
sented to him, if so required by the court, or a judge there
of. In all such statements he must designate the names
of the creditors, the nature of each claim, when it beCode Civ. Pkoc—4».
1
came due, or will become due, aud whether it was
as sallowed I
or rejected by him. [In efiect April 16th, 1880. ]1
1
Statement of claims—claim generally, sec. 1493n.
§ 1513. If there be any debt of the decedent bearing
interest, whether presented or not, the executor or admin
istrator may, by order of the court, pay the amount then
accumulated and unpaid, or any part thereof, at anytime
when there are sufficient funds properly applicable there
to, whether said claim be then due or not; and interest
shall thereupon cease to accrue upon the amount so paid.
This section does not apply to existing debts, unless the
creditor consent to accept the amount. [In effect Julv
1st, 1874. J
Interest—sec. 1494»: stopping, My. P. Eep. 239.
Without presentation of claim—pledge redeemed, My. P. Bep. 87.
Payment of debts of estate—generally, sec. 1643 et teq.
§ 1516. All the property of a decedent shall be charge
able with the payment of the debts of the deceased, the
expenses of administration, and the allowance to the fam
ily, except as otherwise provided in this Code, and in the
Civil Code. And the said property, personal and real,
may be sold as the court may direct, in the manner pre
scribed in this chapter. There shall be no priority as
between personal and real property for the above pur
poses. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
All property chargeable for debts, etc.—Civil Code, sec. 1358: order
of appropriation, Civil Code, sec. 135!).
Personal and real property—appropriated without distinction, see
sec. 1563.
Sold as the court may direct—sec. 1517.
§ 1517. No sale of any property of an estate of a dece
dent is. valid unless made under order of the Superior
Court, except as otherwise provided in this chapter. All
sales must be under oath reported to and confirmed by
the court before the title to the property sold passes. [In
effect April 16th, 1880.]
Restrictive language of section—9 Cal. 127.
Sales to which section inapplicable — 14 Cal. 642; 18 Cal. 291; 21
Cal. 24.
Sales by executors—of real property, 49 Cal. 490 : under will, 50 Cal.
97; where broker employed, My. P. Rep. 86.
§ 1518. All petitions for orders of sale must be in -writ
ing, setting forth the facts showing the sale to be neces
sary, and, upon the hearing, any person interested in the
estate may rile his written objections, which must be
heard and determined. A failure to set forth the facts
showing the sale to be necessary will not invalidate the
subsequent proceedings, if the defect be supplied by the
proofs at the hearing, and the general facts showiDg the
necessity be stated in the order directing the sale, fin
effect
Irregularity
July 1st,
in sale—no
1874.] collateral attack for, 22 Cal. 268.
§ 1519. 'When it appears to the court that the estate is
insolvent, or that it will require a sale of all the property
of the estate of every character, to pay the family allow
ance, expenses of administration, and debts, there need
be but one petition filed, but one order of sale made, and
but one sale had, except in the case of perishable property,
which may be sold as provided in section fifteen hundred
and twenty-two. The court, when a petition for the sale
of any property for any of the purposes herein named is
presented, must inquire fully into the probable amount
required to make all such payments, and if there be no
more estate than sufficient to pay the same, may require
but one proceeding for the sale of the entire estate. In
such case the petition must set forth substantially the
facts required by section fifteen hundred and thirty-seven.
[In effect April Kith, 1880.]
Orders—generally, In probate matters, sec. 1704.
One petition—for realty, sale of personalty on, sees. 1536, 1539.
ARTICLE II.
Sales of Febsonal Property.
§ 1522. Perishable and depreciating property to be sold.
|§ 1523.
to sell interests
personal and
property.
1524. Order
Partnership
choses in action, how sold.
S 1525. Order of sale, what to direct and what to be first sold.
5 1526. Sale of personal property.
§ 1522. At any time after receiving letters, the execu
tor, administrator, or special administrator may apply to
the court or judge and obtain an order to sell perishable
personal property likely to depreciate in value, or which
will incur loss or expense by heing kept, and so much
other personal property as may bo necessary to pay the
allowance made to the family of the decedent. The order
for the sale may be made without notice ; but the execu
tor, administrator, or special administrator is responsible
for the property, unless, after making a sworn return and
on a proper showing, the court shall approve the sale
petition—sec. 18-18.
Order for the sale—sec. 1525.
§ 1523. If claims against the estate have been allowed,
and a sale of property is necessary for their payment, or
for the expenses of administration, or for the payment of
legacies, the executor or administrator may apply for an
order to sell so much of the personal property as may be
necessary therefore. Upon filing his petition, notice of at
least five days must be given ofthe hearing of the appli
cation, either by posting notices or by advertising. He
may also make a similar application from time to time, so
long as any personal property remains in his hands, and
sale thereof is necessary. If it appear for the best inter
ests of the estate, he may, at any time after filing tlio in
ventory, in like manner, and after giving like notice, ap
ply for and obtain an order to sell the whole of the per
sonal property belonging to the estate, whether necessary
toNotice
pay debts
by advertising—see
or not. [Insec.
effect
1705. April 16th, 1880.]
§ 1524. Partnership interests or interests belonging to
any estate by virtue of any partnership formerly exist
ing, interests in personal property pledged, and choses in
action, may be sold in the same manner as other personal
property, when it appears to be for the best interest of
the estate. Before confirming the sale of any partnership
interest, whether made to the surviving partner or to any
other person, the court or judge must carefully inquire
into the condition of the partnership affairs, and must ex
amine the surviving partner, if in the county and able to
bePartnership
present ininterest—sec.
court.
1585.
§ 1525. If it appears that a sale is necessary for the
payment of debts or the family allowance, or for the best
interest of the estate and the persons interested in the
property to be sold, whether it is or is not necessary to pay
the debts or family allowance, the court or judge must or
der it to be made. In making orders and sales for the pay
ment of debts or family allowance, such articles as are
not necessary for the support and subsistence of the fam
ily of the decedent, or are not specially bequeathed, must
be first sold, and the court or judge must so direct.' [In
effect
Special
July
bequest—sold
1st, 1874.]for debts, 48 Cal. 191.
8 1526. The sale of personal property mast be
public auction for such money or currency as tl
may direct, and after public notice given for at least
davs by notices posted in three public places in the coo:
or by publication in a newspaper, or both, containing
time and place of sale, and a 'brief description or
property to be sold, unless for good reason shown
court, or a judge thereof, orders a private sale or a
notice. Public sales of such property must be vl
the court-house door, or at the residence of the <lece
or at some other public place ; but no sale shall be
of any personal property which is not present at the
it- ttime
of sale, unless the court otherwise order. [In effectt April
16th, 1880.]
Sale of personal property—on Insufficient notice, at least v<oldaole.
17 Cal 340.
Public gale—private, objectionable, 12 Cal. 191.
Notice by posting—required when, 17 Cal. 340.
AKTICLE III.
Summary Sales of Mines and Mining interests.
S 1520. Mines may be sola, how.
S 1530. Petition for sale, who may file and what to contain.
1531. Order
cause,and
howhow
made
and on what notice.
S§ 1532.
Order to
of show
sale, when
made.
S 1533. Further proceedings to conform to articles two and four.
§ 1529. When it appears from the inventory of the
estate of any decedent that his estate consists in whole or
in part of mines, or interests in mines, such mines or in
terests may be sold under the order of the court having
jurisdiction of the estate, as hereinafter provided. [In
effect April 16th, 1880.]
§ 1530. The executor or administrator, or any heir-atlaw, or creditor%f the estate, or any partner or member
of any mining company, in which interests or shares are
held or owned by the estate, may file in the court a peti
tion, in writing, setting forth the general facts of the
estate being then in due course of administration, and
particularly describing the mine, interest, or shares which
it is desired to sell, and particularly the condition and
situation of the mines or mining interests, or of the min
ing company in which such interests or shares are held,
and the grounds upon which the sale is asked to be made.
[In effect April 16th, 1880.]
Petition for sale of stocks—disregarding surplusage in, 22 Cal. 266:
petition for sale, generally, sec. 1518.
Condition of the mining interests—petition defective for not de
scribing, see Estate of Boland, July 21st, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 708.
§ 1531. Upon the presentation of such petition, the
court, or a judge thereof, must make an order directing
Mil persons interested to appear before such court, at a
time and place specified, not less than four or more than
ten weeks from the time of making such order, to show
cause why an order should not be granted to the executor
€_>r administrator to sell such mine, mining interests,
shares, or stocks, as are set forth in the petition and belong
ing to the estate. A copy of the order to show cause
must be personally served on all persons interested in the
ustate, at least ten days before the time appointed for
hearing
petition,
or published
at least
successive
■weeks inthesuch
newspaper
as such
court four
or judge
shall
specify. If all persons interested in the estate signify in
■writing their assent to such sale, the notice may be dis
pensed with. [In effect April 16th, 1880.J
Publication of notice—sec. 1705.
Seasonable notice—of sale of stocks, construed, 22 Cal. 266.
§ 1532. If, upon hearing the petition, it appears to the
satisfaction of the court that it is to the interest of the
estate that such mining property or interests of the
estate should be sold, or that an immediate sale is neces
sary in order to secure the just rights or interests of the
mining partners, or tenants in common, such court must
make an order authorizing the executor or administrator
to sell such mining interests, mines, or shares, as herein
after provided. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
§ 1533. After the order of sale is made, all further
proceedings for the sale of such mining property, and for
the notice, report, and confirmation thereof, must be in
conformity with the provisions of article four of this
chapter.
ARTICLE IV.
This Sale op Real Estate, Interests therein, and Con
firmation THEREOF.
§a 1536.
To
sell
real
estate,
1537. Verified petition forwhen.
sale, what to contain and to what It may
refer.
5it 1538.
Order
to
persons
interested
to appear.
1539. Copy to be served, assent given,
or publication made.
5 1540. Hearing after proof of service. Presentation of claims.
S5 1541.
Administrator,
executor,
and
witnesses.
§ 1536. When a sale of property of the estate is nec
essary to pay the allowance or the family, or the debts
outstanding against the decedent, or the debts, expenses,
or charges of administration, or legacies, the executor or
administrator may also sell any real as well as personal
property of the estate for that purpose, upon the order of
the court; and an application for the sale of real property
may also embrace the sale of personal property. [In
effect April 16th, 1880.]
Sale of realty—-authorized, sec. 1516: interest under contracts may
be included, sec. 1565: additional bond on, sec. 1389 and note.
Legislative enactments—as to real estate sales, when unconstitu
tional, 39 Cal. 179; 50 Cal. 388.
Substantial compliance with statute—sufficient, 16 Cal. 473.
Debts outstanding against the decedent—proof of existence, 46
Cal. 315: objection that estate not chargeable, not to be raised collat
erally,
Cal.My.
497:P.cover
by married woman to secure hus
band's 49debt,
Rep. mortgage
184.
Expenses of administration—sale for, 33 Cal. 658.
§ 1537. To obtain such order for the sale of real prop
erty, he must present a verified petition to the Superior
Court, or a judge thereof, setting forth the amount of per
sonal estate
that remains
has comeundisposed
to his hands,
how much
•thereof,
if any,
of; and
the debts
out
standing against the decedent, as far as can be ascertained
or estimated; the amount due upon the family allowance,
or that will be due after the same has been in force for
one year; the debts, expenses, and charges of adminis
tration already accrued, and an estimate of what will or
may accrue during the administration; a general descrip
tion of all the real property of which the decedent died
seized, or in which he had any interest, or in which the
estate has acquired any interest, and the condition and
value thereof, and 'whether the same be community or
separate property; the names of the legatees and de
visees, if any, and of the heirs of the deceased, so far as
known to the petitioner. If any of the matters here
enumerated cannot be ascertained, it must be so stated in
the petition; but a failure to set forth the facts showing
the sale to be necessary will not invalidate the subsequent
Eroceedings, if the defect be supplied by the proofs at the
earing, and the general facts showing such necessity be
stated in the decree. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
Verified petition—want of verification, held fatal in Estate of Boland,
July 21st,of1880,
S Pac. generally,
C. L. J. 708:sec.when
any otherof.person,
1545: forsalo
property
1515:bycontents
16 Cal. sec.
473:
20 Cal. 288; Kichardson v. Musser, Feb. 23rd, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 70, and
see next note: where sale to meet expenses of administration, 33 CaL
658; 36 Cal. 687.
Jurisdictional facts—nature, and need of statins, 13 Cal. 582; 16 Cal.
473: 19 Cal. 189, 397 ; 20 Cal. 288; 50 Cal. 388; Estate of Boland, July 21st,
1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 708 : redundant matter may be rejected, 19 Cal. 189.
Description of real property—19 Cal. 189.
Condition of property—must be set forth in petition, 20 Cal. 288;
51 Cal. 5S3; Estate of Boland, July 21st, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 708.
Reference to inventory—sufficient, 36 Cal. 687.
Subsequent proceedings notinvalidated—provisions Inapplicable,
when,51 CaL 583 : by defects and irregularities not jurisdictional, 16 Cal.
473.
§ 1538. If it appears to the court or judge, from such
petition, that it is necessary to sell the whole or some
portion of the real estate for the purposes and reasons
mentioned in the preceding section, or any of them, such
petition must be filed and an order thereupon made,
directing all persons interested in the estate to appear
before the court, at a time and place specified, not less
than four nor more than ten weeks from the time of
making such order, to .show cause why ah order should
not be granted to the executor or administrator to sell so
much of the real estate of the decedent as is necessary.
Necessity for sale—33 Cal. 666: held that personal property must be
Inadequate, 20 Cal. 288; but now, see sec. 1516
Purposes, etc.—or any of them, 36 Cal. 690.
§ 1539. A copy of the order to show cause must he
personally served on all persons interested in the estate,
any general guardian of a minor so interested, and any
legatee, or devisee, or heir of the decedent, provided they
are residents of the county, at least ten days before the
time appointed for hearing the petition, or be published
four successive weeks in such newspaper in the county
as the court or judge shall direct. If all persons inter
ested in the estate join in the petition for the sale, or sig
nify in writing their assent thereto, the notice may be
dispensed with, and the hearing may be had at any time.
[In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Notices to all persons interested—requirements of section, see 46
Cal. 635: personal
see45sees.
1011,1707-1709,
1710;heirs,
16 Cal.under
160:
publication
of, sec.service
1705: 33of,Cal.
: to attorney
for minor
former statute, Richardson p. Musser, Feb. 23rd, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 70.
General guardian of minor—If administrator, must not represent
ward, 33 Cal. 45.
Statement of title—In notice of sale, purchaser should not depend
upon, 9 Cal. 181.
§ 1540. The court, at the time and place appointed in
such order, or at such other time to which the hearing
may be postponed, upon satisfactory proof of personal
service or publication of a copy of the order, by affidavit
or otherwise, if the consent in writing to such sale of all
parties interested is not filed, must proceed to hear the
petition, and hear and examine the allegations and proofs
of the petitioners, and of all persons interested in the
estate who may oppose the application. All claims
against the decedent not before presented, if the period
of presentation has not elapsed, may be presented and
passed upon at the hearing. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
Opposing application—parties, grounds, etc., My. P. Rep. 7 ; 46 Cal.
304.
Claims passed on—heirs may dispute their validity, 7 Cal. 215.
§ 1541. The executor, administrator, and witnesses
may bo examined on oath by either party, and process to
compel them to attend and testify may be issued by the
court or judge, in the same manner and with like effect as
in other cases. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
Procuring attendance, etc.—sec. 1985 et teq.
§ 1542. If it appears necessary to sell a part of the
real estate, and that by a sale thereof the residue of the
estate, real or personal, or some specific part thereof,
would be greatly injured or diminished in value, or sub
jected to expense, or rendered unprofitable, or that after
any such sale the residue would be so small in quantity
or value, or would be of such a character with reference
to its future disposition among the heirs or devisees, as
clearly to render it for the best interest of all concerned
that the same should be sold, the court may authorize the
sale of the whole estate, or of any part thereof necessary
and for the best interest of all concerned.
Sale of whole of real estate —order for, when not collaterally
attackable, 29 Cat 20.
§ 1543. If -the court is satisfied, after a full hearing
upon the petition and an examination of the proofs ana
allegations of the parties interested, that a sale of the
whole or some portion of the real estate is necessary, for
any of the causes mentioned in thii article, or if such sale
be assented to by all the persons interested, an order
must be made to sell the whole, or so much and such
parts of the real estate described in the petition, as the
court shall judge necessary or beneficial.
Order for sale—error in, 29 Cal. 43 : effect of, 20 Cal. 121 : contents of,
sec. 1544 and note: void for want of jurisdiction, 33 CaL45: when not
premature, 33 Cal. 665.
§ 1544. The order of sale must describe the lands to
be sold and the terms of sale, which may be for cash, or
on a credit not exceeding one year, payable in gross or in
installments, and in such kind of money, with interest, as
the court may direct. The land may be sold in one parcel
or in subdivisions, as the executor or administrator shall
judge most beneficial to the estate, unless the court other
wise specially directs. If it appears that any part of
such real estate has been devised, and not charged in
such devise with the payment of debts or legacies, the
court must order the remainder to be sold before that so
devised. Every such sale must be ordered to be made
at public auction, unless, in the opinion of the court, it
would benefit the estate to sell the whole or some part of
such real estate at private sale. The court may, if the
same is asked for in the petition, order or direct such
real estate, or any part thereof, to be sold at either pub
lic or private sale, as the executor or administrator shall
judge to be most beneficial for the estate. If the executor
or administrator neglects or refuses to make a sale under
the order, and as directed therein, he may be compelled
to sell, by order of the court, made on motion, afteT due
notice, by any party interested.
Contents of order—sec. 1704; 16 Cal. 503; 20 Cal. 121.
Sale in pursuance of agreement—16 Cal. 474.
Employment of brokers—and commissions on, My. P. Rep. 86.
§ 1545. If the executor or administrator neglects to
apply for an order of sale when it is necessary, any per
son may make application therefore, in the same manner
as the executor or administrator, and notice thereof must
be given to the executor or administrator, before the heariug. The petition of such applicant must contain as
many of the matters set forth in section fifteen hundred
and thirty-seven as he can ascertain, and the decree of
sale must fix the period of time within which the execu
tor or administrator must make the sale.
§ 1546. Eepealed July 1st, 1874.
§ 1547. "When a sale is ordered, and is to be made at
public auction, notice of the time and place of sale must
be posted in three of the most public places in the county
in which the land is situated, and published in a newspa
per, if there be one printed in the same county, but if
none, then in such paper as the court may direct, for
three weeks successively next before the sale; the lands
and tenements to be sold must be described with com
mon certainty in the notice.
^ Three weeks' publication of notice—what constitutes, My. P. Rep.
§ 1548. Sales at public auction must be made in the
county where the land is situated, but when the land is
situated in two or more counties it may be sold in either.
The sale must be made between the hours of nine o'clock
in the morning and the setting of the sun on the same
day, and must be made on the day named in the notice of
sale,
Postponement
unless theof same
sale—sees.
is postponed.
1557, 1558.
§ 1549. When a sale of real estate is ordered to be
made at private sale, notice of the same must be posted
up in three of the most public places in the county in
which the land is situated, and published in a newspaper,
if there be one printed in the same county ; if none, then
in such paper as the court or a judge thereof may direct,
for two weeks successively next before the day on or after
which the sale is to bo made, in which the lands and tene
ments to be sold must be described with common cer
tainty. The notice must state a day on or after which the
sale 'will be made, and a place where offers or bids 'will be
received. The day last referred to must be at least fifteen
days from the first publication of notice; and the sale
must not be made before that day, but must be made
within six months thereafter. The bids or offers must be
in writing, and may be left at the place designated in the
notice, or delivered to the executor or administrator per
sonally, or may be riled in the office of the clerk of the
court to which the return of sale must be made, at any
time after the first publication of the notice and before the
making of the sale. If it be shown that it will be for the
best interest of the estate, the court or judge may, by an
order, shorten the time of notice, which shall not, how
ever, be less than one week, and may provide that the
sale may be made on or after a day less than fifteen, but
not less than eight days from the first publication of the
notice, in which case the notice of sale, and the sale, may
be made to correspond with such order. [In effect April
16th, 1880.]
§ 1550. No sale of real estate at private sale shall be
confirmed by the court, unless the sum offered is at least
ninety per cent, of the appraised value thereof, nor unless
such real estate has been appraised within one year of the
time of such sale. If it has not been so appraised, or if the
court is satisfied that the appraisement is too high or too
low, appraisers must be appointed, and they must make
an appraisement thereof in the same manner as in case of
an original appraisement of an estate. This may be done
at any time before the sale or the confirmation thereof.
§ 1551. The executor or administrator must, when the
sale is made upon a credit, take the notes of the pur
chaser for the purchase-money, with a mortgage on the
property to secure their payment.
Credit sale—interest, 9 Cal. 181.
Payment by offset—on mortgage claim, 39 Cal. 306.
§ 1552. The executor or administrator, after making
any sale of real estate, must make a return of his pro
ceedings to the court, which must be filed in the office of
the clerk, at any time subsequent to the sale. A hearing
upon the return of the proceedings may be asked for in
the return or by petition subsequently, and thereupon the
court or judge must fix the day for the hearing, of which
notice of at least ten days must be given by the clerk, by
notices posted in three, public places in the county, or by
publication in a newspaper, or both, as the court or judge
Code Crv. Paoc—43.
shall direct, and must briefly indicate the land sold, the
sum for which it was sold, and must refer to the return
for further particulars. Upon the hearing, the court must
examine the return and witnesses in relation to the same,
and if the proceedings were unfair, or the sum bid dispro
portionate to the value, and if it appear that a sum ex
ceeding such bid at least ten per cent., exclusive of the
expenses of a new sale, may be obtained, the court may
vacate the sale and direct another to be had, of which
notice must be given, and the sale in all respects conducted
as if no previous sale had taken place. If an offer of ten
per cent, more in amount than that named in the return
be made to the court in writing, by a responsible person,
it is in the discretion of the court to accept such offer and
confirm the sale to such person, or to order a new sale. [ In
effect April 16th, 1880.]
Sales under will—sec. 1561.
Notice of petition for confirmation of sale — description of prop
erty by reference In, sec. 1712.
Hearing—provision designed only to secure fair price, 20 Cal. 121.
Increased bid—48 Cal. 383 ; 49 Cal. 490.
§ 1553. When return of the sale is made and filed, any
person interested in the estate may file written objections
to the confirmation thereof, and may be heard thereon,
when the return is heard by the court or judge, and may
produce witnesses in support of his objections.
Objection by person interested—sureties on additional bond alleged.
Insolvent, 50 Cal. 308: waiver of, 49 Cal. 497.
§ 1554. If it appears to the court that the sale was le
gally made and fairly conducted, and that the sum bid was
not disproportionate to the value of the property sold,
and that a greater sum, as above specified, cannot be ob
tained, or if the increased bid mentioned in section
fifteen hundred and fifty-two be made and accepted by
the court, the court must make an order confirming the
sale, and directing conveyances to be executed. The
sale, from that time, is confirmed and valid, and a certi
fied copy of the order confirming it and directing con
veyances to be executed, must be recorded in the office
of the recorder of the county in which the land sold is situ
ated. If, after the confirmation, the purchaser neglects
or refuses to comply with the terms of sale, the court may,
ou motion of the executor or administrator, and after
notice to the purchaser, order a resale to be made of the
property. If the amount realized on such resale does
not cover the bid and the expenses of the previous sale,
such purchaser is liable for the deficiency to the estate.
Power to confirm sale—only where jurisdiction has attached, 19
Ual. 410; 33Cal.45.
Order confirming sale—object of requiring, 20 Cal. 121 : when void,
$3 Cal. 45: proof of notice before, and recital In, sec. 1556: recording
certified copy, sec. 1719.
Sale to substituted bidder—valid, 9 Cal. 181.
Resale—ordered on purchaser's default, My. P. Eep. 153.
Vacating order of confirmation—Insufficient ground for, My. P.
Rep. 222 : want of legal notice, justifies, 49 Cal. 490.
§ 1555. Conveyances must thereupon be executed to
the purchaser by the executor or administrator, and they
must refer to the orders of the court authorizing and con
firming the sale of the property of the estate, and directing
conveyances thereof to be executed, and to the record of
the order of confirmation in the office of the county re
corder, either by the date of such recording, or by the date,
volume, and page of the record, and such reference shall
have the same effect as if the orders were at large in
serted in the conveyance. Conveyances so made convey
all the right, title, interest, and estate of the decedent in
the premises, at the time of his death ; if prior to the sale,
by operation of law or otherwise, the estate has acquired
any right, title, or interest in the premises, other than or
in addition to that of the decedent at the time of his
death, such right, title, or interest, also passes by such
conveyances. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
Conveyances—execution enforced, 39 Cal. 306: title acquired by;
§ 1556. Before any order is entered confirming the
sale, it must be proved to the satisfaction of the court
that notice was given of the sale as prescribed, and the
order of confirmation must show that such proof was
made.
Notice of sale—proof of, before confirmation, 33 Cal. 54: generally,
sees. 1547, 1549.
§ 1557. If, at the time appointed for the sale, the ex
ecutor or administrator deems it for the interest of all
persons concerned therein that the same be postponed, he
may postpone it from time to time, not exceeding in all
three months.
§ 1558. In case of a postponement, notice thereof must
be given, by a public declaration, at the time and place
first appointed for the sale, and if the postponement be
for more than one day, further notice must be given, by
posting notices in three or more public places in the
county where the land is situated, or publishing tbe same,
or both, as the time and circumstances will admit.
Publishing notice—sec. 1705.
§ 1559. Repealed July 1st, 1874.
§ 1560. If the testator makes provision by his will, or
designates the estate to be appropriated for the payment
of his debts, the expenses of administration, or family
expenses, they must be paid according to such provision
or designation, out of the estate thus appropriated, so far
as the same is- sufficient.
Insufficient provision—In will, effect of, sec. 1562.
Payment of debts and expenses — generally, sec. 1516: order of
appropriation, Civil Code, sec. 1359.
Testator's power to change order—31 Cal. 606.
§ 1561. "When property is directed by the will to be
sold, or authority is given in the will to sell property, the
executor may sell any property of the estate without
order of the court, and at either public or private sale,
and with or without notice, as the executor may de
termine; but the executor must make return of such
sales, as in other cases; and if directions are given in the
will as to the mode of selling, or the particular property
to be sold, such directions must be observed. In either
case no title passes unless the sale be confirmed by tbe
court. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
Sales by testamentary authority—no order necessary, 14 Cal. 641 ;
15 Cal. 249; 18 Cal. 292 ; 21 Cal. 31; 49 Cal. 490: directory provisions in
will,
438: title
13 Cal. sale,
592; valid,
21 Cal.1 43:
ciency32 ofCal.power,
1 Cal.by488;executor's
30 Cal. 567:deed,
at private
CaLsuffi
488.
Conduct of sale—49 Cal. 490; 50 Cal. 97.
Return as in other cases—49 Cal. 490; 50 Cal. 97.
sale—when
not necessary,
P. necessary,
Rep.9; 49 Cal.
76,
495:Confirmation
when beyondof power
of court.
50 Cal. 97: My.
when
49 Cal.
490.
§ 1562. If the provision made by the will, or the es
tate appropriated therefore, is insufficient to pay the debts,
expenses of administration, and family expenses, that
portion of the estate not devised or disposed of by the
will, if any, must be appropriated and disposed of for
that purpose, according to the provisions of this chapter.
Order of appropriation — of estate not disposed of by will, see
Marshaling Assets, sec. 1563n.
§ 1563. The estate,*real and personal, given by will to
legatees or devisees, is liable for the debts, expenses of
administration, and family expenses, in proportion to the
value or amount of the several devises or legacies; but
specific devises or legacies are exempt from such liability,
it it appears to the court necessary to carry into effect the
intention of the testator, and there is other sufficient es
tate.
Real and personal property—alike chargeable, sec. 1516 : formerly
otherwise, 3 Cal. 595; 48 Cal. 193.
Specific devises—change in construction as to, 31 Gal. 595: exempt
only if other sufficient estate, 33 Cal. 658.
Marshaling assets—31 Cal. 595.
Special bequest—sold for payment of debts, 48 Cal. 191.
§ 1564. When an estate given by will has been sold
for the payment of debts or expenses, all the devisees and
legatees must oontribute according to their respective in
terests to the devisee or legatee whose devise or legacy
has been taken therefore, and the court, when distribution
is made, must, by decree for that purpose, settle the
amount of the several liabilities, and decree the amount
each person shall contribute, and reserve the same from
their distributive shares, respectively, for the purpose of
paying such contribution. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
§ 1565. If a decedent, at the time of his death, was
possessed of a contract for the purchase of lands, his in
terest in such land and under such contracts may be sold
on the application of his executor or administrator, in the
same manner as if he had died seized of such land ; and
the same proceedings may be had for that purpose as are
grescribed in this chapter for the sale of lands of which
e died seized, except as hereinafter provided.
§ 1566. The sale must be made subject to all payments
that may thereafter become due on such contracts, and if
there are any such, the sale must not be confirmed by the
court until the purchasers execute a bond to the execu
tor or administrator for the benefit and indemnity of him
self and of the persons entitled to the interest of the de
cedent in the lands so contracted for, in double the whole
amount of payments thereafter to become due on such
contract, with such sureties as the court or judge shall
approve. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
§ 1567. The bond must be conditioned that the pur
chaser will make all payments for sucli land that become
due after the date of the sale, and will fully indemnify the
executor or administrator and the persons so entitled,
against all demands, costs, charges, and expenses, by
reason of any covenant or agreement contained in such
contract.
§ 1568. Upon the confirmation of the sale, the executor
or administrator must execute to the purchaser an assign
ment of the contract, which vests in the purchaser, his
heirs and assigns, all the right, title, and interest of the
estate, or of the persons entitled to the interest of the de
cedent, in the lands sold at the time of the sale; and the
purchaser has the same rights and remedies against the
vendor of such land as the decedent would have had if he
were living.
§ 1569. When any sale is made by an executor or ad
ministrator, pursuant to provisions of this chapter, of lands
subject to any mortgage or other lien, which is a valid
claim against the estate of the decedent, and has been
presented and allowed, the purchase-money must be ap
plied, after paying the necessary expenses of the sale,
first, to the payment and satisfaction of the mortgage or
lien, and the residue, if any, in due course of administra
tion. The application of the purchase-money to the sat
isfaction of the mortgage or lien must be made without
delay ; and the land is subject to such mortgage or lieu
until the purchase-money has been actually so applied.
No claim against any estate, which has been presented
and allowed, is affected by the Statute of Limitations,
pending the proceedings for the settlement of the estate.
The purchase-money, or so much thereof as may be suffi
cient to pay such mortgage or lien, with interest, and anylawful costs and charges thereon, may be paid into the
court, to be received by the clerk thereof, whereupon the
mortgage or lien upon the land must cease, and the pur
chase-money must be paid over by the clerk of the court
without delay, in payment of the expenses of the sale,
and in satisfaction of the debt to secure which the mort
gage or other lien was taken, and the surplus, if any, at
once returned to the executor or administrator, unless
for good cause shown, after notice to the executor or ad
ministrator, the court otherwise directs. [In effect April
16th, 1880.]
Sale of mortgaged land—character of provision for, 18 Cal. 686 : ti
tle under, 46 Cal. 200: application of proceeds, 18 Cal. 686.
Valid claim—against estate of decedent, see sees. 1493, 1497, 1500; 6
Cal. 412 : where claim rejected, 1) Cal. 124.
Paid into court—see sees. 572-74, 2104.
§ 1570. At any sale, under order of the court, of lands
upon which there is a mortgage or lien, the holder thereof
may become the purchaser, and his receipt for the amount
due him from the proceeds of the sale is a payment pro
tanto. If the amount for which he purchased the prop
erty is insufficient to defray the expenses and discharge his
mortgage or lien, lie must pay to the court, or the clerk
thereof, an amount sufficient to pay such expenses. [In
effect April 16th, 1880.]
Mortgage-holder as purchaser—crediting debt as payment, 39 Cat.
306.
§ 1571. If there is any neglect or misconduct in the
proceedings of the executor in relation to any sale, by
which any person interested in the estate suffers damage,
the party aggrieved may recover the same in an action
upon the bond of the executor or administrator, or other
wise.
Bond of executor, etc.—sec. 1388ra et seq.
§ 1572. Any executor or administrator who fraudu
lently sells any real estate of a decedent contrary to or
otherwise than under the provisions of this chapter, is
liable in double the value of the land sold, as liquidated
damages, to be recovered in an action by the person hav
ing an estate of inheritance therein.
Fraudulently sells—prohibited connection with sale, sec. 1576.
§ 1573. No action for the recovery of any estate sold
by an executor or administrator, under the provisions of
this chapter, can be maintained by any heir or other per
son claiming under the decedent, unless it be commenced
within three years next after the settlement of the final ac
count of the executor or administrator. An action to set
aside the sale may be instituted and maintained at any
time within three years from the discovery of the fraud,
or other grounds upon which the action is based. [In ef
fect April 10th, 1880. 1
Persons
Sales embraced—in
under disability—provision
enactment, 33 Cal.inapplicable
515.
to, see sec. 1574.
Next after settlement of final account—before amdt. 1880, after
sale, 20 Cal. 620.
Discovery of the fraud—within three years of, see sec. 338, subd. 4;
29 Cal. 20.
Ear of statute—must be pleaded, 20 Cal. 620.
§ 1574. The preceding section shall not apply to mi
nors or others under any legal disability to sue at the
time when the right of action lirst accrues; but all such
persons may commence an action at any time within three
years after the removal of the disability.
§ 1575. When a sale has been made by an executor or
administrator of any property of the estate, real or per
sonal, he must return to the court, within thirty days
thereafter, an account of sales, verified by his affidavit.
If he neglects to make such return, lie may be punished
by attachment, or his letters may be revoked, one day's
notice having been first given him to appear and show
cause why such attachment should not issue, or such rev
ocation should not be made. |In effect April 16th, 1880.]
Within thirty days—amdt. 1880, pursuant to abolition of terms, sec.
73n.
*
Attachment for contempt—sec. 1212 et seq.
Notice by citation—sec. 1710; also, sees. 1707-1709.
§ 1576. No executor or administrator must, directly or
indirectly, purchase any property of the estate he repre
sents, nor must he be interested in any sale.
Purchase by administrator, etc.—subsequent conveyance to an
other, effect
of, 29 sec.
Cal. 1617.
19; 36 Cal. 146; 41 Cal. 411 : of any claim against
estate,
forbidden,
§ 1581. The executor or administrator must take into
his possession all the estate of the decedent, real and per
sonal, and collect all debts due to the, decedent or to the
estate. For the purpose of bringing suits to quiet title, or
for partition of such estate, the possession of the execu
tors or administrators is the possession of the heirs or
devisees; such possession by the heirs or devisees is sub
ject, however, to the possession of the executor or admin
istrator, for the purposes of administration, as provided in
this title.
Possession of estate—by executor, etc., sec. 1452 and note, 8 CaL
580; 15 Cal. 259; 19 Cal. 87; 20 Cal. 620; 31 Cal. 604; 38 Cal. 392.
Collection of debts—when no liability for failure, sec. 1615.
Heirs
of, as
suits, etc.,
sec. 1452n;
7 Cal.
215;or18devisees—rights
Cal. 458; 19 Cal. 87;
3!) to
Cal.possession,
179: ejectment,
cannot
main
tain while administration unclosed, 20 Cal. 620; 42 Cal. 462; 47 Cal. 168;
51 Cal. 147 : suits to quiet title, generally, sec. 738 and notes.
Executor or administrator—suits by and against, sees. 1582-1584,
1585-1587, 1589, 1590: consent of, when not binding on heirs, 50 Cal. 471.
§ 1582. Actions for the recovery of any property, real
or personal, or for the possession thereof, and all actions
founded upon contracts, may be maintained by and
against executors and administrators, in all cases in
which the same might have been maintained by or
against their respective testators Or intestates.
Executors and administrators—Suits by, after substitution, sec
385 and notes: without joining beneficiaries, sec. 369: together with
cotenants of deceased, 20 Cal. 620; 21 Cal. 208; 31 Cal. 33; 45 Cal. 631:
for conversion of personalty, 24 Cal. 170; 50 Cal. 3tis>: ejectment main
tainable 14 Cal. 117. Suits against, parties, 8 Cal. 580; 50 Cal. 655:
costs, sec. 1509.
§ 1583. Executors and administrators may maintain
actions against any person who has wasted, destroyed,
taken, or carried away, or converted to bis own use, the
goods of their testator or intestate, in* his lifetime. They
may also maintain actions for trespass committed on the
real estate of the decedent in his lifetime.
Conversion—14 Cal. 250; hi Cal. 574; 53 Cal. 713.
Trespass upon realty—19 Cal. 113.
§ 1584. Any person or his personal representatives
may maintain an action against the executor or adminis
trator of any testator or intestate who in his lifetime has
wasted, destroyed, taken, or carried away, or converted
to his own use, the goods or chattels of any such person,
or committed any trespass on the real estate of such per
son.
Administrator—when liable as trustee, 7 Cal. 348: effect of judg
ment against, 9 Cal. 130.
Personal tort—of decedent, administrator not liable for, 38 Cal 3.
Conversion—survival of cause of action for, 28 Cal. 567.
§ 1585. When a partnership exists between the dece
dent, at the time of his death, and any other person, the
surviving partner has the right to continue in possession
of the partnership, and to settle its business, but the in
terest of the decedent in the partnership must bo included
in the inventory, and be appraised as other property. The
surviving partner must settle the affairs of the partner
ship without delay, and account with the executor or ad
ministrator, and pay over such balances as may from
time to time be payable to hkn, in right of the decedent.
Upon the application of the executor or administrator,
the court, or a judge thereof, may, whenever it appears
necessary, order the surviving partner to render an ac
count, and in case of neglect or refusal may, after notice,
compel it by attachment; and the executor or adminis
trator may maintain against him any action which the
decedent could have maintained. [In effect April 16th,
1880.]
Surviving partner—authority under section, 16 Cal. 118 : in realty,
38 Cal. 385.
Interest of decedent—in partnership, may be sold, sec. 1524.
Settlement ana account—by surviving partner, 26 Cal. 51; 34 Cal.
2S3.
Balances—to be paid over, 34 Cal. 263.
Administrator, etc.—not to conduct business, 26 Cal. 51.
Action—by administrator, where brought, 9 Cal. 636; but see Su
perseded Couets, sec. 76«.
Community property—liability for partnership debts, 50 Cal. 636.
§ 1586. An administrator may, in his own name, for
the use and benefit of all parties interested in the estate,
maintain actions on the bond of an executor, or of any
former
Bond ofadministrator
executor or administrator—sec.
of the same estate.
1388 et teq.
§ 1587. In actions by or against executors, it is not
necessary to join those as parties to whom letters were
issued,
Defendants
but who
joinedhave
in actions—sees.
not qualified.
379, 382.
§ 1588. Whenever a debtor of the decedent is unable
to pay all his debts, the executor or administrator, with
the approbation of the court, or a judge thereof, may
compound with him and give him a discharge, upon re
mise
ceiving
may
a fair
alsoand
be just
authorized
dividend
when
of his
it effects.
appears A
to oomprobe just,
and for the best interest of the estate. [In effect April
16th, 1880.]
Insolvency—sec. 1822.
§ 1589. When there is a deficiency of assets in the
hands of an executor or administrator, and when the de
cedent, in his lifetime, has conveyed any real estate, or
any rights or interests therein, with intent to defraud his
creditors, or to avoid any right, debt, or duty of any perBon, or has so conveyed such estate that by law the deeds
or conveyances are void as against creditors, the executor
or administrator must commence and prosecute to final
judgment any proper action for the recovery of the same;
and may recover for the benefit of the creditor all such
real estate so fraudulently conveyed, and may also, for
the benefit of the creditors, sue and recover all goods,
chattels, rights, or credits which have been so conveyed
by the decedent in his lifetime, whatever may have been
the manner of such fraudulent conveyance.
Section inapplicable—when, 53 Cal. 715.
Property fraudulently transferred—suit to recover, section inter
preted,
Cal. 442;provisions,
48 Cal. 393sees.
: when
Cal. 299;31further
1590,and
1591.by whom action brought, 50
§ 1590. No executor or administrator is bound to sue
for such estate, as mentioned in the preceding section, for
the benefit of the creditors, unless on application of cred
itors, who must pay such part of the costs and expenses
of the suit, or give such security to the executor or adIninistrator therefore, as the court, or a judge thereof,
shall direct. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
§ 1591. All real estate so recovered must be sold for
the payment of debts, in the same manner as if the dece
dent had died seized thereof, upon obtaining an order
therefore from the court; and the proceeds or all goods,
chattels, rights, and credits so recovered must be appro
priated in payment of the debts of the decedent in the
same manner as other property in the hands of the exec
utor or administrator. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
§ 1597. When a person who is bound by contract in
writing to convey any real estate dies before making the
conveyance, and in all cases when such decedent, if liv
ing, might be compelled to make such conveyance, the
court may make a decree authorizing and directing his
executor or administrator to convey such real estate to
the person entitled thereto. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
Construction of section—as to jurisdiction, 49 Cal. 469.
Real estate under contract to convey—not affected by will, 32 Cal.
431.
§ 1598. On the presentation of a verified petition by
any person claiming to be entitled to such conveyance
from an executor or administrator, setting forth the facts
upon which the claim is predicated, the court, or a judge
thereof, must appoint a time and place for hearing the
petition, and must order notice thereof to be published at
least four successive weeks before such hearing, in such
newspaper in this State as he may designate. [In effect
April 16th, 1880.]
Verified petition—by whom, 41 Cal. 308: verification of pleadings,
sec. 446.
Publication of notice—sec. 1705.
§ 1599. At the time and place appointed for the hear
ing, or at such other time to which the same may be postponed, upon satisfactory proof by affidavit or otherwise
Code Civ. Proc—44.
of the due publication of the notice, the court must pro
ceed to a hearing, and all persons interested in the estate
may appear ana contest such petition, by riling their ob
jections in writing, and the court may examine, on oath,
the petitioner and all who may be produced before him
for that purpose.
| 1600. If, after a full hearing upon the petition and
objections, and examination of the facts and circumstan
ces of the claim, the court is satisfied that the petitioner
is entitled to a conveyance of the real estate described in
the petition, a decree authorizing and directing the execu
tor or administrator to execute a conveyance thereof to
the petitioner must be made, entered on the minutes of '
the court, and recorded.
§ 1601. The executor or administrator must execute
the conveyance according to the directions of the decree,
a certified copy of which must be recorded with the deed
in the office of the recorder of the county where the lands
lie, and is prima facie evidence of the correctness of the
proceedings, and of the authority of the executor or ad
ministrator to make the conveyance. [In effect July 1st,
1874.],
§ 1602. If, upon hearing, as hereinbefore provided, the
right of the petitioner to Have a specific performance of
the contract is found to be doubtful, the court must dis
miss
the
petition
without
prejudice
to six
themonths
right of
the •
petitioner,
after,
proceed
whobymay,
action
at any
to enforce
time within
a specific
performance
therethereof. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
§ 1603. Every conveyance made in pursuance of a
decree as provided in this chapter, shall pass the title to
the estate contracted for, as fully as if the contracting
party himself was still living, and executed the convey
ance. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
Conveyances—by executor, etc., sec. 1555.
§ 1604. A copy of the decree for a conveyance, as pro
vided in this chapter, duly certified and recorded in the
office of the recorder of the county where the lands lie,
gives the person entitled to the conveyance a right to the
possession of the lands contracted for, and to hold the
same according to the terms of the intended conveyance,
in like manner as if they had been conveyed in pursuance
of the decree. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
§ 1605. The recording of any decree, as provided in
"the preceding section, shall not prevent the court making
the decree from enforcing the same by other process.
§ 1606. If the person entitled to the conveyance dies
before the commencement of proceedings therefore under
this chapter, or before the completion of the conveyance,
any person entitled to succeed to his rights in the con
tract, or the executor or administrator of such decedent,
may, for the benefit of the person so entitled, commence
such proceedings or prosecute any already commenced,
and the conveyance must be so made as to vest the estate
in the persons entitled to it, or in the executor or admin
istrator, for their benefit.
§ 1607. The decree provided for in this chapter may
direct the possession of the property therein described to
be surrendered to the person entitled thereto, upon his
producing the deed and a certified copy of the decree,
when, by the terms of the contract, possession is to be
surrendered.
§ 1612. No executor or administrator is chargeable
upon any special promise to answer damages or to pay
the debts of the testator or intestate out of Ms own estate,
unless the agreement for that purpose, or some memoran
dum or note thereof, is in writing and signed by such ex
ecutor or administrator, or by some othei; person by him
thereunto specially authorized.
Compare—sec. 1973, subd. 2.
§ 1613. Every executor and administrator is chargea
ble in his account with the whole of the estate of the de
cedent which may come iuto his possession, at the value of
the appraisement contained in the inventory, except as
provided in the following sections, and with all the inter
est, profit, and income of the estate.
Chargeable with the whole of the estate—but not for loss through
coexccutor, 33 Cal. 659: responsible for kind of money received, sees.
667, 1407: 26 Cal. 429: reducing money in bank to possession, discretion
ary, 44 Cal. 589 : liability for rents, 6 Cal. 606 ; 37 Cal. 425.
§ 1614. He shall not make profit by the increase, nor
suffer boss by the decrease or destruction, without his
fault, of any part of the estate. He must account for the
excess when lie sells any part of the estate for more than
the appraisement, and if any is sold for less than the ap
praisement, he is not responsible for the loss if the sale
lias been justly made.
Fiduciary capacity—money held In, by executor, etc., 26 Cal. 429.
Accountability for profit made—37 Cal. 424.
Liability for losses'—48 Cal. 627 ; 52 Cal. 477.
Mingling trust funds—liable for Interest or profits, 37 Cal. 424; 39
Cal. 597 ; 42 Cal. 290 : but commingling must clearly appear, My. P. Rep.
66; 37 Cal. 424: compound interest exacted, 52 Cal. 403 ; 53 Cal. 355; and
see My. P. Rep. 67, 168.
Becoming purchaser—of mortgage at his own sale, liability for,
sec. 1576; 46 Cal. 564.
§ 1615. No executor or administrator is accountable
for any debts due to the decedent, if it appears that they
remain uncollected without his fault.
Debts appraised as valueless—uncollected, no ground for revoca
tion of letters, My. P. Rep. 98.
§ 1616. He shall be allowed all necessary expenses in
the care, management, and settlement of .the estate, in
cluding reasonable fees paid to attorneys for conducting
the necessary proceedings or suits in courts, and for his
services such fees as provided in this chapter; but when
the decedent, by his will, makes some other provision for
the compensation of his executor, that shall be a full
compensation for his services, unless, by a written instru
ment, filed in the court, he renounces all claim for com
pensation provided by the will. [In effect April 16th,
1880.]
Necessary expenses of administration—not for removing Incum
brances, 12 Cal. 200 ; 26 Cal. 50; where litigation, 33 Cal. 659 ; 38 Cal. 87;
48 Cal. 627; and see next note; costs, sec. 1509: services of employe,
46 Cal. 564 : brokerage, amount fixed by court, My. P. Rep. 86.
Reasonable attorney's fees—amount discretionary, 42 Cal. 288:
when allowed, 38 Cal. 87; 46 Cal. 564 : where loan contrary to will, not
allowed,
627 : before
this provision,
not forMy.
procuring
Cal. 543: 43
in Cal.
executor's
own behalf,
not allowed,
P. Rep.letters,
128, 168:43
incurred by previous executor, allowed, My. P. Rep. 163.
Compensation for services—commissions, where no provision in
will, etc., sec. 1618.
§ 1617. No administrator or executor shall purchase
any claim against the estate he represents; and if he pays
any claim for less than its nominal value, he is only enti
tled to charge in his account the amount he actually paid.
Liability of executor, etc.—for purchasing property of estate, sec.
1576:
Claim—sec.
for fraudulently
1493n. selling realty, sec. 1572.
§ 1618. "When n<\ compensation is provided by the
will, or the executor renounces all claim thereto, he must
estate
be allowed
accounted
commission
for bjt him
upon
as follows
the amount
: For of
thethe
firstwhole
thou
sand dollars, at the rat* of seven per cent.; for all above
that sum and not exceeding teu thousand dollars, at the
rate of live per ceut. ; fox all above that sum at the rate of
four per cent. ; and the same commission must be allowed
administrators. In all cases, such further allowance may
be made as the court majf deem just and reasonable, for
any extraordinary service. The total amount of such al
lowance must not excedd the amount of commissions
allowed by this section; and public administrators shall
receive the same compensation and allowances as are al
lowed in this title to other administrators. [In effect April
16th, 1880.]
Amount
the43whole
for, is basis
sions,
30 Cal.of1U;
Cat 643:estate—accounted
homestead not reckoned,
My. ofP. commis
Rep. 59;
but Nee 30 Cal. 105: supposed assets held until title determined, are
basis for commissions, 13 Cal. 134.
Apportionment of commission—between successive administra
tors, 3 Cal- 289: but made only when estate ready for distribution. Es
tate of Barton, June lbth, 1880, 5 Pac. C.L.J. 511: whennot between coexecutors, 24 Cal. 92.
Commissions—not to be set off against Indebtedness to intestate,
46 Cal. 564: allowable only on final account, 46 Cal. 564: not allowed to
one acting under void letters testamentary, 52 Cal. 058.
Further allowance—for extraordinary services, My. P. Rep. 66.
§ 1622. Six mouths after his appointment, and at any
time when required by the court, either upon his own
motion or upon the application of any person interested
in the estate, the executor or administrator must render,
for the information of the court, an exhibit under oath,
showing the amount of money received and expended by
him, the amount of all claims presented against the es
tate, and the names of the claimants, and all other mat
ters necessary to show the condition of its affairs. [In
effect April 16th, 1880.]
Within
six73,months—amdt.
previously at third term, but
notes
to sec.
as to abolition 1880:
of terms.
■ see
§ 1623. If the executor or administrator fails to render
an exhibit for six months after his appointment, the
court, or a judge thereof, must cause a citation to be is
sued requiring him to appear and render it. [In effect
April 16th, 1880.]
Citation—sees. 1707, 1711.
§ 1624. Any person interested in the estate may, at
any time before the final settlement of accounts, present
his petition to the court, or a judge thereof, praying that
the executor or administrator be required to appear and
render such exhibit, setting forth the facts showing that it
is necessary and proper that such an exhibit should be
made. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
§ 1625. If the court, or a judge thereof, is satisfied,
either from the oath of the applicant or from any other
testimony offered, that the facts alleged are true, and con
siders the showing of the applicant sufficient, he must
direct a citation to be issued to the executor or adminis
trator, requiring him to appear, at some day to be named
in the citation, and render an exhibit as prayed for. [In
effect April 16th, 1880.]
§ 1626. When an exhibit is rendered by an executor or
administrator, any person interested may appear, and by
objections in writing, contest any account or statement
therein contained. The court may examine the executor
or administrator, and if he has been guilty of neglect, or
has wasted, embezzled, or mismanaged the estate, his let
ters must be revoked.
Any person interested—see sec. 1635n.
Revocation for misconduct—sec. 1436 et seq.
§ 1627. If any executor or administrator neglects or
refuses to appear and render an exhibit, after having
been duly cited, an attachment may be issued against
him, and such exhibit enforced, or his letters may be re
voked, in the discretion of the court.
Contempt—sees. 1209, 1219.
§ 1628. Within thirty days after the expiration of the
time mentioned in the notice to creditors within which
claims must be exhibited, every executor or administrator
must render a lull account and report of his administra
tion. If ho fails to present his account, the court or judge
must compel the rendering of the account by attach
ments, and any person interested in the estate may apply
for and obtain an attachment; but no attachment mnst
issue unless a citation has been first issued, served, and
returned, requiring the executor or administrator to ap
pear and show cause why an attachment should not issue.
Every account must exhibit all debts which have been
presented and allowed during the period embraced in the
account. [Approved March 11th, 1876—ninety days.]
Account of administration—final, sees. 1647,1652: separate, by each
executor, etc., 24 Cal. 92 : by administrator of an administrator, 44 Cal.
124 : time for filing accounts, merely directory, My. P. Rep. 98.
§ 1629. When the authority of an executor or admin
istrator ceases, or is revoked for any reason, he may be
cited to account before the court, at the instance of the
person succeeding to the administration of the same es
tate, in like manner as he might have been cited by any
person interested in the estate during the time he was
executor or administrator. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
Sureties on guardian's bond—no liability until accounts settled,
52 Cal. 636.
§ 1630. If the executor or administrator resides out of
the county, or absconds or conceals himself so that the
citation cannot be personally served, and neglects to ren
der* an account within thirty days after the time pre
scribed in this article, or if he neglects to render an
account within thirty days after being committed where
the attachment has been executed, his letters must be
revoked.
§ 1631. In rendering his account, the executor or ad
ministrator must produce and file vouchers for all charges,
debts, claims, and expenses which he has paid, which
must remain in the court; and he may be examined on
oath touching such payments, and also touching any
property and effects of the decedent, and the disposition
thereof. When any voucher is required for other pur
poses, it may be withdrawn on leaving a certified copy on
file; if a voucher is lost, or for other good rea,son cannot
be produced on the settlement, the payment may be
proved
Vouchers—required
by the oathofofclaimant,
any competent
sec. 1494: lacking,
witness.see sec. 1632: 37
Cal. 424.
§ 1632. On the settlement of his account he may be
allowed any item of expenditure not exceeding twenty
dollars, for which no voucher is produced, if such item be
supported by bis own uncontradicted oath positive to the
fact of payment, specifying when, where, and to whom
it was made; but such allowances in the whole must not
exceed lire hundred dollars against any one estate, and if,
upon such settlement of accounts, it appear that debts
against the deceased have been paid without the affidavit
and allowance prescribed by statute or sections one thous
and four hundred and ninety-four, one thousand four
hundred and ninety-five, and oue thousand four hundred
and ninety-six of this Code, and it shall be proven by
competent evidence to the satisfaction of the court that
such debts were justly due, were paid in good faith, that
the amount paid was the true amount of such indebted
ness over and above all payments or set-off, and that the
estate is solvent, it shall be the duty of the said court to
allow the said sums so paid in the settlement of said
accounts. [In effect A pril 16th, 1880.]
Debts paid without required affidavit and allowance — ratifica
tion of action, amdt. 1860.
§ 1633. When any account is rendered for settlement,
the court, or a judge thereof, must appoint a day for the
settlement thereof ; the clerk must thereupon give notice
thereof by causing notices to be posted in at least three
public places in the county, setting forth the name of the
estate, the executor or administrator, and the day ap
pointed for the settlement of the account. The court, or
a judge thereof, may order such further notice to be given
as may be proper. [In effect April Kith, 1880.]
§ 1634. If the account mentioned in .the, preceding
section be for a final settlement, and a'fJSfeSaii for the
final distribution of the estate be filed with said accounts,
the notice of the settlement muststate those facts, which
notice must be given by posting ^"mblication as the court
may direct, and for such time as may be ordered. . On the
settlement of said account, distribution and partition of
the estate to all entitled thereto may be immediately had,
without further notice or proceedings. [Approved March
11th, 1870—ninety days.]
§ 1635. On the day appointed, or any subsequent day
to which the hearing may be postponed by the court, any
person interested in the estate may appear and file his ex
ceptions in writing to the account, ana contest the same.
Any person interested—26 Cal. 57; 29 Cal. 519; 49 Cal. 111.
Contest the account—proceedings generally, 30 Cal. 110.
§ 1636. All matters, including allowed claims not
passed upon on the settlement of any former account, or
on rendering an exhibit, or on making a decree of sale,
may be contested by the heirs, for cause shown. The
hearing and allegations of the respective parties, may be
postponed from time to time, when necessary," and the
court may appoint one or more referees to examine the
accounts, and make report thereon, subject to confirma
tion; and may allow a reasonable compensation to the
referees, to be paid out of the estate of the decedent.
Eeferees-secs. 638-615.
§ 1637. The settlement of the account and the allow
ance thereof by the court, or upon appeal, is conclusive
against all persons in any way interested in the estate,
saving, however, to all persons laboring under any legal
disabuity, their right to move for cause to reopen and ex
amine the account, or to proceed by action against the
executor or administrator, either individually or upon his
bond, at any time before final distribution ; and in any
action brought by any such person, the allowance and
settlement of the account is prima facie evidence of its
correctness. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Settlement of account—not a judgment, My. P. Rep. 127 : record on
appeal, 30 Cal. 105.
Conclusiveness of settlement—of account, 52 Cal. 403 ; Reynolds r. »
Brumaglm, March 4th, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 115: when right to contest
claim not barred, My. P. Rep. 103 : estoppel of legatee, 1 1 Cal. 212 : appli
cation to guardians, 36 Cal. 654 : application to annul account, 37 Cal. 424.
Reopening account—of administrator, when no notice, 53 Cal. 197,
259 : by minor, My. P. Rep. I8K : diligence, requisite showing of, 11 Cal.
212 : coexecutor may ask for supplemental decree, 24 Cal. 93.
§ 1638. The account must not be allowed by the court
until it is first proved that notice has been given as re
quired by this chapter, and the decree must show that
such proof was made to the satisfaction of the court, and
isNotice—if
conclusive
lacking,
.evidence
accountofmay
thebefact.
reopened, 53 Cal. 197, 259.
§ 1639. Whenever it appears to the court on any hear
ing of an application for the sale of real property, that it
would he for the interest of tne estate that personal prop
erty of {he estate, or some part of such property, should
lie lirst sold, the court may decree the sale of such per
sonal property, or any part of it, and the sale thereof
shall be conducted in the same manner as if the applica
tion had been made for the sale of such personal property
in the first instance. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
§ 1640. Pending the settlement of any estate, on the
petition of any party interested therein, and upon good
cause shown therefore, the court may order any monies in
the hands of the executors or administrators to be in
vested for the benefit of the estate in securities of the
United States or of this State. Such order can only be
made after publication of notice of the petition in some
newspaper, to be designated by the court or a judge
thereof. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
article iii.
The Payment op Debts of the Estate.
§ 1643. Order In which debts to be paid.
S 1644. Where property insufficient to pay mortgage.
|§ 1645.
a dividend
paid.
1646. Estate
Funeralinsufficient,
expenses and
expensestoofbelast
sickness.
§ 1647. Order for payment of debts and discharge of the executor and
administrator.
§ 164S. Provision for.dlsputed and contingent claims.
§ 1649. After decree for payment of debts, executor personally liable
§ 1650. Claims not Included in order for payment of debts, how dis
posed of.
§ 1651. Order for payment of legacies and extension of time.
§ 1652. Final account, when to be made.
§ 1653. Neglect to render final account, how treated.
§ 1643. The debts of the estate, subject to the provis
ions of section twelve hundred and five, must be paid in
the following order :
1. Funeral expenses ;
2. The expenses of the last sickness;
3. Debts having preference by the laws of the United
States;
4. Judgments rendered against the decedent in his life
time,
5. All
andother
mortgages
demands
in the
against
orderthe
of estate.
their date;
Preferred
Family allowance—sees.
claims for wages—sec.
1467, 1646.1205.
Order
Judgment—decree
of payment—unchangeable,
settling account26isCal.
not,51.
My. P. Rep. 127.
§ 1644. The preference given in the preceding section
to a mortgage only extends to the proceeds of the prop
erty mortgaged. If the proceeds of such property is in
sufficient to pay tlie mortgage, the part remaining unsat
isfied must be classed with other demands against the
estate.
Proceeds of property mortgaged—sec. 1569.
§ 1645. If the estate is insufficient to pay all the debts
of any one class, each creditor must be paid a dividend in
proportion to his claim ; and no creditor of any one class
shall receive any payment until all those of the preced
ing class are fully paid.
§ 1646. The executor or administrator, as soon as he
has sufficient funds in his hands, must pay the funeral ex
penses, and expenses of the last sickness, and the allow
ance made to the family of the decedent. He may retain
in his hands the necessary expenses of administration,
but he is not obliged to pay any other debt or any legacy
until, as prescribed in this article, the payment has been
ordered by the court.
Surplus funds—application to payment of debts, 37 Cal. 424.
§ 1647. Upon the settlement of the accounts of the
executor or administrator, as required in this chapter,
the court must make an order for the payment or the
debts, as circumstances of the estate require. If there is
not sufficient fuuds in the hands of the executor or ad
ministrator, the court must specify in the decree the sum
to be paid to each creditor. If the whole property of the
estate bo exhausted by sucli payment or distribution, such
account must be considered as a final account, and the
executor or administrator is entitled to his discharge on
producing and filing the necessary vouchers and proofs
showing that sucli payments have been made, and that he
has fully complied with the decree of the court. [Ap
proved ilarch 11th, 187G—ninety days.]
Settlement of accounts—sec. 1628.
Order for payment of debts—My. P. Eep. 109: in particular kind of
money, 26 Cal. 421; 39 Cal. 70.
§ 1648. If there is any claim not due, or any contin
gent or disputed claim against the estate, the amount
thereof, or such part of the same as the holder would be
entitled to if the claim were due, established, or absolute,
must be paid iuto the court, and there remain, to be paid
over to the party when he becomes entitled thereto ; or, if he
fails to establish his claim, to be paid over or distributed
as the circumstances of the estate require. If any credi
tor whose claim has been allowed, but is not yet due,
appears and assents to a deduction therefrom of the legal
interest for the time the claim has yet to run, he is entitled
to be paid accordingly. The payments provided for iu
this section are not to be made when the estate is insol
vent, unless a pro rata distribution is ordered.
Cautionary provision—18 Cal. 429.
§ 1649. When a decree is made by the court for the
payment of creditors, the executor or administrator is
personally liable to each creditor for his allowed claim, or
the dividend thereon, and execution may be issued on
such decree, as upon a judgment in the court, in favor of
each creditor, and the samo proceedings may be had un
der such execution as under execution in other cases.
The executor or administrator is liable therefore on his
bond to each creditor. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
Decree for payment—executor cannot open, 14 Cal. 129: allowed
claim not a judgment, before, 26 Cal. 421 ; My. F. Rep. 125.
§ 1650. When the accounts of the administrator or
executor have been settled, and an order made for the pay
ment
debts
and
estate,
no creditor,
■whoseofclaim
was
notdistribution
included in of
thethe
order
for payment,
has
any right to call upon the creditors who have been paid, or
upon the heirs, devisees, or legatees, to contribute to the
payment of his claim; but if the executor or administra
tor has failed to give the notice to the creditors, as pre
scribed in section fourteen hundred and ninety-one, such
creditor may recover on the bond of the executor or ad
ministrator the amount of his claim, or such part thereof
as he would have been entitled to, had it been allowed.
This
section
not apply
to any
creditor
whose claim
•was not
due shall
ten months
before
the day
of settlement,
or
whose claim was contingent, and did not become absolute
ten months before such day.
Decree of distribution conclusive—upon creditors, My. F. Rep. 159.
§ 1651. If the whole of the debts have been paid by
the first distribution, the court must direct the payment
of legacies and the distribution of the estate among the
heirs, legatees, or other persons entitled, as provided in the
next chapter; but if there be debts remaining unpaid, or
if, for other reasons, the estate be not in a proper con
dition to be closed, the court must give such extension of
time as may be reasonable, for a final settlement of the
estate.
§ 1652. At the time designated in the last section, or
sooner, if within that time all the property of the estate
code Civ. Proc—4s.
has
been sold, or theie are
sufficient funds in his hands 530
for
the payment of all the debts due by the estate, and the
estate be in a proper condition to be closed, the executor
or administrator must render a final account, and pray a
settlement of his administration.
Settlement of accounts—sec. 1628.
§ 1653. If he neglects to render his account, the same
proceedings may be had as prescribed in this chapter in
regard to the first account to be rendered by him, and all
the provisions of this chapter relative to the last-men
tioned account, and the notice and settlement thereof,
apply to his account presented for final settlement.
Proceedings to enforce account—sees. 1628-1630.
§ 1658. At any time after the lapse of four months
from the issuing of letters testamentary or of administra
tion, any heir, devisee, or legatee, may present his peti
tion to the court for the legacy or share of the estate to
which he is entitled, to be given to him upon his giving
bonds, with security, for the payment of his proportion
of the debts of the estate.
Intent of section—20 Cal. 627 ; 31 Cal. 619; 33 Cal. 666.
Heir—Includes widow or survivor. My. P. Rep. 158.
Giving bonds—requisite, 14 Cal. 112.
Payment of legacies—order of appropriation for, Civil Code, sec.
1360.
Proportion of the debts—for which legatee, etc., liable, Civil Code,
sec. 1377.
§ 1659. Notice of the application must be given to the
executor or administrator, personally, and to all persons
interested in the estate, in the same manner that notice is
required to be given of the settlement of the account of
an executor or administrator.
Notice of settlement of account—sec. 1633.
§ 1660. The executor or administrator, or any person
interested in the estate, may appear at the time named
and resist the application, or any other heir, devisee, or
legatee may make a similar application for himself.
Any person interested—sec. 1635n.
§ 1661. If, at the hearing, it appear that the estate is
but little indebted, and that the snare of the party apply
ing may be allowed to him without loss to tlie creditors
of the estate, the court must make an order in conformity
with the prayer of the applicant, requiring:
1. Each heir, legatee, or devisee, obtaining such order,
before receiving his share, or any portion thereof, to exe
cute and deliver to the executor or administrator a bond,
in such sum as shall be designated by the court, or a judge
thereof, with sureties to be approved by the judge, paya
ble to the executor or administrator, and conditioned for
the payment, whenever required, of his proportion of the
debts due from tlie estate, not exceeding the value or
amount of the legacy or portion of the estate to which he
is entitled ;
2. The executor or administrator to deliver to the heir,
legatee, or devisee, the whole portion of the estate to
which he may be entitled, or only a part thereof, desig
nating it. If, in the execution of the order, a partition is
necessary between two or more of the parties interested,
it must be made in the manner hereinafter prescribed.
The costs of these proceedings shall be paid by the appli
cant, or if there be more than one, shall be apportioned
equally amongst them. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
Order—not made If any taxes unpaid, sec. 1669: recording, sec. 1719.
Subdivision 1. Undertakings, generally—sec. 941n.
Partition—manner hereinafter prescribed, sec. 1675 et seg.
J 1662. When any bond has been executed and deliv
ered under the provisions of the preceding section, and it
is necessary for the settlement of the estate to require
the payment of any part of the money thereby secured,
the executor or administrator must petition the court for
an order requiring the payment, and have a citation issued
and served on the party bound, requiring him to appear
and show cause why the order should not be made. At
the hearing, the court, if satisfied of the necessity of such
payment, must make an order accordingly, designating
the amount and giving a time within which it must he
paid. If the money is not paid within the time allowed,
an action may be maintained by the executor or admin
istrator on the bond.
§ 1665. Upon the final settlement of the accounts of
the executor or administrator, or at any subsequent time,
upon the application of the executor or administrator, or
of any heir, legatee, or devisee, the court must proceed to
distribute the residue of the estate in tne hands of the ex
ecutor or administrator, if any, among the persons who
by law are entitled thereto; and if the decedent has left
a surviving child, and the issue of other children, and
any of them, before the close of the administration, have
died while under age and not having been married, no
administration on such deceased child's estate is neces
sary, but all the estate which such deceased child was
entitled to by inheritance must, without administration,
be distributed to the other heirs-at-law. A statement of
any receipts and disbursements of the executor or admin
istrator, since the rendition of his final accounts, must
be reported and filed at the time of making such distribu
tion, and a settlement thereof, together with an estimate
of the expenses of closing the estate, must be made .by
the court, and included in the order or decree; or the court
or judge may order notice of the settlement of such sup
plementary account, and refer the same as in other cases
of the settlement of accounts.
Distribution—Method of, where illegal bequests and mortgaged land.
My. P. Rep. 169: how affected by ante-nuptial contract, My. P. Rep. 241:
where heir or devisee dies pending administration. My. P. Rep. 252:
where till
adverse
to realty.
Time
not post
poned
end ofclaimant
period for
contest,My.51 P.Cal.Rep.
568;122.
52 Cal.
94. of,Persons
en
titled to, court determines, My. P. Rep. 247. On executor's application,
no lieu retained for balance due applicant. My. P. Rep. 247.
Notice of settlement—of account, sec. 1633.
Absent heirs—attorney for, sec. 1718: distribution of property of,
sec. 1693-and note.
§ 1 666. In the order or decree, the court must name
the persons and the proportions or parts to which each
shall be entitled, and such persons may demand, sue for,
and recover their respective shares from the executor 01
administrator, or any person having the same in posses
sion. Such order or decree is conclusive as to the rights of heirs, legatees, or devisees, subject only to be reversed,
set aside, or modified on appeal.
Decree
of final
of, where My.
unsettled
of
heir
or devisee
whodistribution—form
dies ponding administration,
P. Rep.estate
252 : not
modifiable below. 36 Cal. 277: wbenproper, 51 Cal. 568; 52 Cal. 94: gar
nishment after. My. P. Rep. 100; 35 Cal. 392: Is charter of distributees,
My. P. Rep. 247: recording, sec. 1710: taxes payable before, sec. 1669.
Recover their respective shares—Wheeler v. Bolton, March 13th,
1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 112.
Appeal—10 Cal. 463 ; 49 Cal. 551.
Subsequent issue of letters—on discovery of estate, sec. 1698.
§ 1667. Upon application for distribution, after final
settlement of the accounts of administration, if the de
cedent was a non-resident of this State, leaving a will
which has been duly proved or allowed in the State of his
residence, and an authenticated copy thereof has been
admitted to probate in this State, and it is necessary, in
order that the estate, or any part thereof, may be distrib
uted according to the will, that the estate in this State
should be delivered to the executor or administrator in
the Statd or place of his residence, the court may order
such delivery to be made, and, if necessary, order a sale
of the real estate, and a like delivery of the proceeds.
The delivery, in accordance with the order of the court,
is a full discharge of the executor or administrator with
the will annexed, in this State, in relation to all property
embraced in such order, which, unless reversed on appeal,
binds and concludes all parties in interest. Sales of real
estate, ordered by virtue of this section, must be made in
the same manner as other sales of real estate of dece
dents by order of the court. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
Sales of real estate—sec. 1536 et seq.
§ 1668. The order or decree may be made on the peti
tion of the executor or administrator, or of any person
interested in the estate. Notice of the application must
be given by posting or publication as the court may direct,
and for such time as may be ordered. If partition be
applied for as provided in this chapter, the decree of dis
tribution shall not divest the court of jurisdiction to order
partition, unless the estate is finally closed. [In effect
July
Want1st,
of notice—decree
1874.]
of distribution void for, 46 Cal. 609.
§ 1669. Before any decree of distribution of an estate
is made, the court must be satisfied, by the oath of the
executor or administrator, or otherwise, that all State,
county, and municipal taxes, legally levied upon personal
property of the estate, have been fully paid. [In effect
April loth, 1880.]
Similar provision—Political Code, sec. 3752.
Executor paying taxes—entitled to reimbursement, My. P. Bep, 80,
188.
ARTICLE m.
Distribution and Partition.
In common.
8C 1675.
1676. Estate
Partition
and notice Commissioners.
thereof, and the time of filing petition.
I5 1678.
1677. Partition
Estate in different
counties,
how divided.
may be made,
although
sonie of the heirs, etc., have
parted with their Interest.
§ 1679. Shares to be set out by metes and bounds.
§ 1680. Whole estate may be assigned to one, In certain cases.
S 1681. Payments for equality of partition, by whom and how.
SS 1683.
1682. Estate
be sold.
To givemay
notice
to all persons and guardians before partition.
§ 1675. AVhen the estate, real or personal, assigned by
the decree of distribution to two or more heirs, devisees,
or legatees, is in common and undivided, and the respect
ive shares are not separated and distinguished, partition
or distribution may be made by three disinterested per
sons, to be appointed commissioners for that purpose by
the court, who must be duly sworn to the faithful dis
charge of their duties, a certified copy of the order of
their appointment, and of the order or decree assigning
and distributing the estate, must be issued to them as
their warrant, and their oath must be indorsed thereon.
Upon consent of the parties, or when the court deems it
proper and just, it is sufficient to appoint one commis
sioner only, who has the same authority and is governed
by the same rules as if three were appointed, [in effect
July 16th, 1880.]
Attorney appointed by the court—sec. 1718.
§ 1676. Such partition may be ordered and had in the
Superior Court on the petition of any person interested.
But before commissioners are appointed, or partition
ordered by the court as directed in this chapter, notice
thereof must be given to all persons interested who reside
in this State, or to their guardians, and to the agents,
attorneys, or guardians, if any in this State, of such as
reside out of this State, either personally or by public
notice, as the court may direct. The petition may be filed,
attorneys, guardians, and agents appointed, and notice
given at any time before the order or decree of distribu
tion, but tbe commissioners must not be appointed until
the order or decree is made distributing the estate. [In
effect July 16th, 1880.]
§ 1677. If the real estate is in different counties, the
court may, if deemed proper, appoint commissioners for
all, or different commissioners for each county. ,The
estate in each county must be divided separately among
the heirs, devisees, or legatees, as if there was no other
estate to be divided; but the commissioners first appointed
must, unless otherwise directed by the court, make divi
sion of such real estate wherever situated within this
State. [In effect July 10th, 1880.]
§ 1678. Partition or distribution of the real estate may
be made as provided in this chapter, although some of
the original heirs, legatees, or devisees, may have con
veyed their shares to other persons, and such shares must
be assigned to the person holding the same, in the same
manner as they otherwise would bave been to such heirs,
legatees, or devisees.
Person holding the same—extends to assignees of alienees, 18 Cal.
99; direct distribution to assignee of deceased heir, My. P. Rep. 232.
§ 1679. When both distribution and partition are made,
the several shares in the real and personal estate must be
set out to each individual in proportion to his right, by
metes and bounds, or description, so that the same can be
easily distinguished, unless two or more of the parties in
terested consent to have their shares set out so as to be
held by them in common and undivided.
§ 1680. When the real estate cannot be divided with
out prejudice or inconvenience to the owners, the court
may assign the whole to one or more of the parties en
titled to share therein, who will accept it, always pre
ferring the males to the females, and among children,
preferring the elder to the younger. The parties accept
ing the whole must pay to the other parties interested
their just proportion of the true value thereof, or secure
the same to their satisfaction, or in case of the minority
of such party, then to the satisfaction of his guardian;
and the true value of the estate must be ascertained and
reported by the commissioners. When the commissioners
appointed to make partition are of the opinion that the
real estate cannot be divided without prejudice or incon
venience to the owners, they must so report to the court,
and recommend that the whole be assigned as herein pro
vided, and must find and report the true value of such
real estate. On filing the report of the commissioners,
and on making or securing the payment as before pro
vided, the court, if it appears just and proper, must con
firm the report, and thereupon the assignment is com
plete, and the title to the whole of such real estate vests
in the person to whom the same is so assigned. [In effect
July 16th, 1880.]
§ 1681. When any tract of land or tenement is of
greater value than any one's share in the estate to be
divided, and cannot be divided without injury to the same,
it may be set off by the commissioners appointed to make
partition to any oj the parties who will accept it, giving
preference as prescribed in the preceding section. The
party accepting must pay or secure to the others such
sums as the commissioners shall award to make the par
tition equal, and the commissioners must make their
award accordingly; but such partition must not be es
tablished by the court until the sums awarded are paid
to the parties entitled to the same, or secured to their sat
isfaction.
§ 1682. "When it appears to the court, from the com
missioners' report, that it cannot otherwise be fairly di
vided and should be sold, the court may order the sale of
the whole or any part of the estate, real or personal, by
the executor or administrator, or by a commissioner ap
pointed for that purpose, and the proceeds distributed.
The sale must be conducted, reported, and confirmed, in
the same manner and under the samo requirements pro
vided in article four, chapter seven, of this title.
§ 1683. Before any partition is made or any estate di
vided, as provided in this chapter, notice must be given
to all persons-interested in the partition, their guardians,
agents, or attorneys, by the commissioners, of the time and
place when and where, they shall proceed to make parti
tion. The commissioners may take testimony, order sur
veys, and take such other steps as may be necessary to
enable them to form a judgment upon the matters before
them.
§ 1684. The commissioners must report their proceed
ings, and the partition agreed upon by them, to the court,
in writing, and the court may, for sufficient reasons, set
aside the report and commit the same to the same com
missioners, ' or appoint others; and when such report is
finally confirmed, a certified copy of the judgment, or de
cree of partition made thereon, attested by the clerk under
the seat of the court, must he recorded in the office of the
recorder of the county where the lands lie. [In effect Julv
16th, 1880.]
§ 1685. "When the court makes a judgment or decree
assigning the residue of any estate to one or more per
sons entitled to the same, it is not necessary to appoint
commissioners to make partition or distribution thereof,
unless the parties to whom the assignment is decreed, or
some of them, request that such partition be made. [In
effect July lGth, 1880.]
§ 1686. All questions as to advancements made, or al
leged to have been made, by the decedent to his heirs,
may be heard and determined by the court, and must be
specified in the decree assigning and distributing the es
tate; and the final judgment or decree of the court, or in
case of appeal, of the Supreme Court, is binding on all
parties interested in the estate. [In effect July 16tn, 1880.]
§ 1691. "When any estate is assigned or distributed by
a judgment or decree of the court, as provided in this
chapter, to any person residing out of, and having no
agent in this State, and it is necessary that some person
should be authorized to take possession -and charge of the
same for the benefit of such absent person, the court may
appoint an agent for that purpose, and authorize him to
take charge of such estate, as well as to act for such ab
sent person in the distribution.
§ 1692. The agent must execute a bond to the State of
California, to be approved by the court, or a judge thereof,
conditioned that lie shall faithfully manage and account
for the estate. The court appointing such agent may al
low a reasonable sum out of the profits of the estate for
his services and expenses. [In effect July 16th, 1880.]
§ 1693. When personal property remains in the hands
of the agent unclaimed for a year, and it appears to the
court that it is for the benefit of those interested, it shall
be sold under the order of the court, and the proceeds,
after deducting the expenses of the sale allowed by the
court, must be paid into the State treasury. When the
payment is made, the agent must take from the treasury
duplicate receipts, one of which he must file in the office
of the controller, and the other in the court. [In effect
July 16th, 1880.]
Paid into the State treasury—But not distributed among the other
heirs, 6 Cal. 418.
§ 1694. The agent must render the court appointing
bim, annually, an account, showing:
1. The value and character of the property received by
him, what portion thereof is still on hand, whafesold, and
for what;
2. The income derived therefrom ;
3. The taxes and assessments imposed thereon, for
what, and whether paid or unpaid;
4. Expenses incurred in the care, protection, and man
agement thereof, and whether paid or unpaid. When
filed, the court may examine witnesses and take proofs
in regard to the account; and if satisfied from such ac
counts and proofs that it will be for the benefit and ad
vantage of the persons interested therein, the court may,
by order, direct a sale to be made of the whole or such
parts of the real or personal propefty as shall appear to
be proper, and the purchase-money to be deposited in the
State treasury. [In effect July 16th, 1880.]
§ 1695. The agent is liable on his bond for the care
and preservation of the estate while in his hands, and for
the payment of the proceeds of the sale as required in
the preceding sections, and may be sued thereon by any
person interested.
§ 1696. When any person appears and claims the
money paid into the treasury, the court making the dis
tribution must inquire into such claim, and being first sat
isfied of his right thereto, must grant him a certificate to
that effect, under its seal; and upon the presentation of
the certificate to him, the controller must draw his war
rant on the treasurer for the amount. [In effect July 16th,
1880.]
§ 1697. When the estate has been fully administered,
and it is shown by the executor or administrator, by the
production of satisfactory vouchers, that he has paid all
sums of money due from him, and delivered up, under
the order of the court, all the property of the estate to
the parties entitled, and performed all the acts lawfully
required of him, the court must make a judgment or
decree discharging him from all liability to be incurred
thereafter.
Paid all sums—of money due to distributees, in contempt other
wise, 53 Cal. 204.
Delivered
property
estate—to
Wheeler v. Bolton,
March
13th, I860,
5 Pac. ofC. L.
J. 112. distributees,
. ■
Discharge of executor, etc.—allowance of final account is not, 51
Cal. 146: afterward, no longer represents the estate,^ Cal. 491.
Discharge of guardian—36 Cal. 651.
• § 1698. The final settlement of an estate, as in this
chapter provided, shall not prevent a subsequent issue of
letters testamentary, or of administration, or of adminis
tration with the will annexed, if other property of the
estate be discovered, or if it become necessary or proper
for any cause that letters should be again issued. [In
effect July 1st, 1874.]
§ 1704. Orders and decrees made by the court, or a
„ ge thereof, in probate proceedings, need not recite the
existence of facts, or the performance of acts, upon which
the jurisdiction of the court or judge may depend, but it
shall only be necessary that they contain the matters or
dered or adjudged, except as otherwise provided in this
title. All orders and decrees of the court or judge must
be entered at length in the minute book of the court.
[In effect July 16th, 1880.]
Interpretation of section—51 Cal. 146.
§ 1705. When any publication is ordered, such publi
cation must be made daily, or otherwise as often during
the prescribed period as the paper is regularly issued, un^
less otherwise provided in this title. The court, or a judge'
thereof, may, however, order a less number of publica
tions
Affidavit
during
of publication—sees.
the period. [Iu2010,
effect
2011. July 16th, 1880.]
Order directing publication—particularity of, 51 Cal. 146.
Code Civ. Proc—40.
§ 1706. When it is provided in this title that any order
or.decree of the court, or a judge thereof, or a copy
thereof, must be recorded in the office of the county
recorder, from the time of filing the same for record,
notice is imparted to all persons of the contents thereof.
[In effect July 16th, 1880.]
§ 1707. Citations must be directed to the person to be
cited, signed by the clerk and issued under the seal of the
court, and must contain—
1. The title of the proceeding;
2. A brief statement of the nature of the proceeding;
3. A direction that the person cited appear at a time
and place specified.
§ 1708. The citation may be issued by the clerk upon
the application of any party without an order of the
judge, except in cases in which such order is by the pro
visions of this title expressly required.
§ 1709. The citation must be served in the same man
ner as a summons in a civil action.
Service of citation—time for, sec. 1711 ; same manner as summons in
& civil action, see sec. 410 et seq.
§ 1710. "When personal notice is required, and no mode
of giving it is prescribed in this title, it must be given by
citation.
§ 1711. When no other time is specially prescribed in
this title, citations must be served at least five days be
fore the return day thereof.
§ 1712. When a complete description of the real prop
erty of an estate sought to be sold has been given and
published in a newspaper, as required in the order to show
cause why the sale should not be made, such description
need not be published in any subsequent notice of sale or
notice of a petition for the confirmation thereof; it is suf
ficient to refer to the description contained in the publi
cation of the first notice, as being proved and on rile in
the court.
§ 1713. Except as otherwise provided in this title, the
t provisions of part two of this Code are applicable to and
constitute the rules of practice in the proceedings men
tioned in this title.
§ 1714. The provisions of part two of this Code, relative
to new trials and appeals—except in so far as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of this title—apply to
the proceedings mentioned in this title.
§ 1715. The appeal must be taken within sixty days
after the order, decree, or judgment is entered.
Appeals from Superior Courts—in probate matters, sec. 963, subd. 3.
Within sixty days—Estate of Burns, Feb. 28th, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 49.
Parties aggrieved—may appeal, 40 Cal. 463.
§ 1716. All issues of fact joined in probate proceedings
must be tried in conformity with the requirements of
article two, chapter two, of this title, and in all such pro
ceedings the party affirming is plaintifff, and the one deny
ing or avoiding is defendant. Judgments therein, on the
issue joined, as well as for costs, may be entered and en
forced by execution or otherwise by the court, as in civil
actions. [In effect July 16th, 1880.]
Trial of issues—see sec. 1717.
Judgment—sec. 664ra.
Execution—sec. 684n.
§ 1717. If no jury is demanded, the court must try the
issues joined. If on written demand a jury is called by
either party, and the issues are not sufficiently made up
by the written pleadings on file, the court, on due notice
to the opposite party, must settle and frame the issues to
be tried, and submit the same, together with the evidence
of each party, to the jury, on which they must render a
verdict. Either may move for a new trial, upon the same
grounds and errors, and in like manner, as provided in
this Code for civil actions.
New trials—see sec. 1714.
§ 1718. At or before the hearing of petitions and con
tests for the probate of wills; for letters testamentary or
of administration ; for sales of real estate, and confirma
tions thereof ; settlements, partitions, and distributions of
estates, setting apart homesteads, and all other proceed
ings where all the parties interested in the estate are re
quired to be notified thereof ; the court may, in its discre
tion, appoint some competent attorney-at-law to represent
in all such proceedings the devisees, legatees, heirs, or
creditors of the decedent, who are minors and have no
general guardian in the county, or who are non-residents*
of the State ; and those interested who, though they are
neither such minors or non-residents, are unrepresented.
The order must specify the names of the parties so far as
known for whom the attorney is appointed, who is thereby
authorized to represent such parties in all such proceedings had subsequent to his appointment. The attorney
may receive a fee, to be fixed by the court, for his serv
ices, Which must be paid out of the funds of the estate as
necessary expenses of administration, and upon distribu
tion may be charged to the party represented by the at
torney. If, for any cause, it becomes necessary, the
court may substitute another attorney for the one first apSointed, in which case the fee must be proportionately
ivided. The non-appointment of an attorney will not
affect the validity of any of the proceedings. [In effect
July 16th, 1880.]
Attorney for absent heirs—fees of, 36 Cal. 278; 43 Cal. 543: cannot
waive minor's rights, My. P. Rep. 6 : cannot institute proceedings for
revocation of probate, My. P. Bep. 75.
§ 1719. When a judgment or decree is made, setting
apart a homestead, confirming a sale, making distribu
tion of real property, or determining any other matter af
fecting the title to real property, a certified copy of the
same must be recorded in the office of the recorder of the
county in which the property is situated. [In effect July
1st, 1874.]
§ 1720. When it is not otherwise prescribed in this
title, the Superior Court, or the Supreme Court on ap
peal, may, in its discretion, order costs to be paid by any
party to the proceedings, or out of the assets of the es
tate, as justice may require. Execution for the costs may
issue out of the Superior Court. [In effect July 16th, 1880.]
Costs against executor—or administrator, sec. 1509.
Costs—when paid out of the estate, 47 Cal. 450 : on contest of will,
before Code, 19 Cal. 388 : on appeal, Estate of Barton, June 16th, 1880, 5
Pac. C.L.J. 511.
§ 1721. Whenever an executor, administrator, or guard
ian is committed for contempt in disobeying any lawful
order of the court, or a judge thereof, and has remained in
custody for thirty days without obeying such order, or
purging himself otherwise of the contempt, the court
may, by order reciting the facts, and without further
showing or notice, revoke his letters and appoint some
other person entitled thereto executor, administrator, or
guardian in his stead. [In effect July 16th, 1880.]
Imprisonment of executor—for not paying over the distributed
shares of the estate, My. P. Rep. 160; and see 53 Cal. 204.
§ 1722. Whenever an infant, insane, or incompetent
person has a guardian of his estate residing in this State,
personal service upon the guardian of any process, notice,
or order of the court concerning the estate of a deceased
person in which the ward is interested, is equivalent to
service upon the ward, and it is the duty of the guardian
to attend to the interests of the ward in the matter. Such
guardian may also appear for his ward and waive any
process, notice, or order to show cause which an adult, or
a person of sound mind might do. [In effect July 16th,
1880.]
§ 1726. Every public administrator, duly elected, com
missioned, and qualified, must take charge of the estates
of persons dying within his county as follows :
1. Of the estate of decedents for which no administra
tors are appointed, and which, in consequence thereof,
are being wasted, uncared for, or lost;
2. Of the estates of decedents who have no known heirs;
3. Of the estates ordered into his hands by the court;
and
4. Of the estates upon which letters of administration
have been issued to him by the court. [In effect July
Kith, 1880.]
§ 1727. Whenever a public administrator takes charge
of an estate, which he is entitled to administer without let
ters of administration being issued, or under order of the
court, he must, with all convenient dispatch, procure let
ters of administration thereon, in like manner and on like
proceedings as letters of administration are issued to
other persons. His official bond and oath are in lieu of
the administrator's bond and oath, but when real estate is
ordered to be sold, another bond may be required by the
court.
Letters of administration—need of granting, to public adminis
trator, 7 Cal. 215; 11 Cal. 120: 17 Cal. 233 ; 34 Cal. 4W : continue in force
after office expires, 11 Cal. 120; S3 Cal. 259 : but estate must be deliv
ered to another appointee, sees. 1730, 1735.
Bond on sale of real estate—sec. 1389.
Bondsmen of public administrator—liable after term expires, 53
Cal. 259.
§ 1728. Whenever a stranger, or person without known
heirs, dies intestate in the house or premises of another, the
possessor of such premises, or any one knowing the facts,
must give immediate notice thereof to the public admin
istrator of the county; and in default of so doing, he is
liable for any damage that may be sustained thereby, to
be recovered by the public administrator, or any party in
terested.
§ 1729. The public administrator must make and re
turn a perfect inventory of all estates taken into his pos
session, administer and account for the same according to
the provisions of this title, subject to the control and
directions of the court. [In effect July 16th, 1880.]
Failure to file inventory, etc.—ground for revocation of letters,
My. P. Rep. 251.
§ 1730. If, at any time, letters testamentary or of ad
ministration are regularly granted to any other person on
an estate of which the public administrator has charge,
he must, under the order of the court, account for, pay,
and deliver to -the executor or administrator thus ap
pointed, all the money, property, papers, and estate of
every kind iu his possession or under his control. [In ef
fect July 16th, 1880.]
Authority of public administrator—continues after term until new
appointment, 11 Cal. 120.
§ 1731. All civil officers must inform the public ad
ministrator of all property known to them, belonging to
a decedent, which is liable to loss, injury, or waste, and
which, by reason thereof, ought to be in possession of the
public administrator.
§ 1732. The public administrator must institute all
suits and prosecutions necessary to recover the property,
debts, papers, or other estate of the decedent.
§ 1733. When the public administrator complains to
the Superior Court, or a judge thereof, on oath, that any
person has concealed, embezzled, or disposed of, or has in
his possession any money, goods, property, or effects, to
the possession of which such administrator is entitled in
his official capacity, the court or judge may cite such per
son to appear before the court, and may examine him, on
oath, touching the matter of such complaint. [In effect
July 16th, 1880.]
Citation—sees. 1707-1711.
§1734. All such interrogatories and answers must be
uced to writing and signed by the party examined,
and nled in the court. If the person bo cited refuses to
appear and submit to such examination, or to answer
matter
such interrogatories
of such complaint,
as may
thebecourt
put may
to him
commit
touching
himthe
to .
the county jail, there to remain, in close custody, until he
submits to the order of the court. [In effect July 16th,
1880.]
Contempt—sees. 1209, 1219.
§ 1735. The court may, at any time, order the public
administrator to account for and deliver all the money
and property of an estate in his hands to the heirs, or to
the executors or administrators regularly appointed. [In
effect July 16th, 1880.]
§ 1736. The public administrator must, once in every
six months, make to the Superior Court, under oath, a
return of all estates of decedents which have come into
his hands, the value of the same, the money which has
come into his hands from such estate, and what he has
done with it, and the amount of his fees and expenses in
curred, and the balance, if any, remaining in his hands;
publish the same six times in some newspaper published
in the county, or if there is none, then post the same, legi
bly written or printed, in the office of the county clerk of
the county. Lin effect July 16th, 1880.]
Semi-annual statement—of affairs of estate, etc., neglect causes
revocation of letters, My. F. Rep. 251.
Publication—sec. 1706.
§ 1737. It is the duty of every public administrator, as
soon as he shall receive the same, to deposit with the
county treasurer of the county in which the probate pro
ceedings are pending, all monies of the estate not required
for the current expenses of the administration; and such
monies may be drawn upon the order of the executor or
administrator, countersigned by a superior judge, when
required for the purposes of administration. It shall be
the duty of the county treasurer to receive and safely
lceep all such monies, and pay them out upon the order
of the executor or administrator, when countersigned by
a superior judge, and not otherwise, and to keep an ac
count with such estate of all monies received and paid
to him; and the county treasurer shall be allowed one
per cent, upon all monies received and kept by him, and
no greater fees for any services herein provided ; and for
the safe keeping and payment of all such monies, as
herein provided, the said treasurer and his sureties shall
be responsible upon his official bond. The monies thus
deposited may, upon order of the court, be invested,
gending the proceedings, in securities of the United
tates, or of this State, when such investment is deemed
by the court to be for the best interests of the estate.
After a final settlement of the affairs of any estate, if
there be no heirs, or other claimants thereof, the county
treasurer shall pay into the State treasury all monies and
effects in his hands belonging to the estate, upon order of
the court ; and if any such monies and effects escheat to
the State, they must be disposed of as other escheated
estates. [In effect July 16th, 1880.]
Depositing money in county treasury, etc.—failure causes revo
cation of letters, My. F. Rep. 251.
Escheated estates—sees. 1269-1272.
§ 1738. The public administrator must not be inter
ested in the expenditures of any kind made on account of
any estate he administers, nor must he be associated in
business or otherwise with any one who is so interested,
and he must attach to his report and publication, made in
accordance with the preceding section, his affidavit to that
effect.
§ 1739. Public administrators are required to account
under oath, aud to settle and adjust their accounts re
lating to the care aud disbursement of money or property
belonging to estates in their hands, with the county
clerks of their respective counties, on the first Monday in
each month; and they must pay to the county treasurer
any money remaining in their hands of an estate un
claimed, as provided in sections sixteen hundred and
ninety-three to sixteen hundred and ninety-six, both in
clusive.
§ 1740. When it appears, from the returns made in
pursuance of the foregoing sections, that any money remains in the hands of the public administrator (after a
final settlement of the estate) unclaimed, which should be
paid over to the county treasurer, the Superior Court, or a
judge thereof, must order the same to be paid over to the
county treasurer; and on failure of the public adminis
trator to comply with the order within ten days after the
same is made, the district attorney for the county must
immediately institute the requisite legal proceedings
against the public administrator for a judgment against
him and the sureties on his official bond, in the amount of
money so withheld, and costs. [In effect July 16th, 1880.]
§ 1741. The fees of all officers chargeable to estates in
the hands of public administrators, must be paid out of
the assets thereof so soon as the same come into his hands.
§ 1742. Public administrators may administer oaths
in regard to all matters touching the discharge of their
duties, or the administration of estates in their hands.
Administration of oaths—sec. 2093 et seq.
§ 1743. When no direction is given in this chapter for
the government or guidance of a public administrator in
the discharge of his duties, or for the administration of an
estate in his hands, the provisions of the preceding chap
ters of this title must govern.
§ 1747. The Superior Court of each county, when it ap
pears uecessary or convenient, may appoint guardians for
the persons and estates, or either of them, of minors who
have no guardian legally appointed by will or deed, and
who are inhabitants or residents of the county, or who
reside without the State and have estate within the
county. Such appointment may be made on the petition
of a relative or other person on behalf of the minor, or on
the petition of the minor, if fourteen years of age. Be
fore making such appointment, the court must cause such
notice as such court deems reasonable to be given to any
person having the care of such minor, and to such rela
tives of the minor residing in the county as the court may
deem proper. [In effect April 15th, 1880.]
Powers and duties of guardians nee. 1768 et seq.
Guardian and ward—see Civil Code, sees. 236-258.
Guardian ad litem—see sec. 1759.
Guardian of minoT—minors generally, see Civil Code, sees. 25, 26. 203.
204 : control of District Courts over minors, before arodts. 1880. 4 Cal.
362: on petition of minor, see sec. 1748: administrator also, 33 Cal. 45:
legislative
Letters ofappointment
guardianship—when
of, when unconstitutional,
need not actually
52 Cal.
issue,482.15 Cal. 226.
Non-resident minor—notice of application for guardianship of, 19
Cal. 629.
§ 1748. If the minor is under the age of fourteen years,
the court may nominate and appoint his guardian. If he
is fourteen years of age, he may nominate his own guar
dian, who, if approved by the court, must be appointed
accordingly. [In effect April 15th, 1880.]
§ 1749. If the guardian nominated by the minor is not
approved by the court, or if the minor resides out of the
State, or if, after being duly cited by the court, he
neglects for ten days to nominate a suitable person, the
court or judge may nominate and appoint the guardian in
the same manner as if the minor were under the age of
fourteen years. [In effect April 15th, 1880.]
§ 1750. When a guardian has been appointed by the
court for a minor under the age of fourteen years, the
minor, at any time after he attains that age, may appoint
his own guardian, subject to the approval of the court.
[In effect April 15th, 1880.]
§ 1751. The father of the minor, if living, and in case
of his decease, the mother, while she remains unmarried,
being themselves respectively competent to transact their
own business and not otherwise unsuitable, must be en
titled to the guardianship of the minor.
Control of parent—see Civil Code. sees. 202, 213 ; 37 Cal. 657: mother
when preferred to father, My. P. Rep. 18 : contest between father and
stranger, My. P. Rep. 215.
§ 1752. If the minor has no father or mother living,
competent to have the custody and care of his education,
the guardian appointed shall have the same.
Where parent living—otherwise, 37 Cal. 657.
§ 1753. Every guardian appointed shall have the cus
tody and caro of the education of the minor, and the care
and management of his estate, until such minor arrives
at the age of majority or marries, or until the guardian is
legally discharged.
§ 1754. Before the order appointing any person guard
ian under this chapter takes effect, and before letters
issue, the court must require of such persona bond to the
minor with sufficient sureties, to be approved by the
§ 1755-6 judge, and in such sum as he shall order, conditioned that
the guardian will faithfully execute the duties of his trust
according to law, and the following conditions shall form
a, part of such bond without being expressed therein :
1. To make an inventory of all the estate, real and per
sonal, of his ward, that comes to his possession or knowl
edge, and to return the same within such time as the
court may order;
2. To dispose of and manage the estate according to
law and for the best interest of the ward, and faithfully
to discharge his trust in relation thereto, and also in rela
tion to the care, custody, and education of the ward;
3. To render an account on oath of the property, estate,
and monies of the ward in his hands, and all proceeds or
interests derived therefrom, and of the management and
disposition of the same, within three months after his ap
pointment, and at such other times as the court directs,
and at the expiration of his trust to settle his accounts
with the court, or with the ward, if he be of full age, or
his legal representatives, and to pay over and deliver all
the estate, monies, and effects remaining in his hands, or
due from him on such settlement, to the person who is
lawfully entitled thereto. Upon riling the bond, duly
approved, letters of guardianship must issue to the person
appointed. In form the letters of guardianship must be
substantially the same as letters of administration, and
the oath of the guardian must be indorsed thereon that
lie will perform the duties of his office as such guardian
according to law. [In effect April 15th, 1880.]
Subdivision 3. Accounts of guardians—exclusive jurisdiction of
Probate Court over, before amdts. 1880, 53 Cal. 16 : rendering, sees. 1773,
1774. t
§ 1755. When any person is appointed guardian of a
minor, the court may, with the consent of such person,
insert in the order of appointment, conditions not other
wise obligatory, providing for the care, treatment, educa
tion, and welfare of the miuor. The performance of such
conditions shall be a part of the duties of the guardian,
for the faithful performance of which he and the sureties
on his bond shall be responsible. [In effect April 15th,
1880.]
Undertakings generally—sec. 941n.
G-uardian's bond—liability on, sec. 1407.
Letters of guardianship—special, Issuable at chambers, sec. 166.
§ 1756. All letters of guardianship issued, and all
guardians' bonds executed under the provisions of this.
Code Civ. Pkoc—4T.
chapter, with the affidavits and certificates thereon, must
be recorded by the clerk of the court having jurisdiction
of the persons and estates of the wards. [In effect April
15th, 1880.]
§ 1757. If any minor having a father living has prop
erty, the income of which is sufficient for his maintenance
and education in a manner more expensive than his
father can reasonably afford, regard being had to the sit
uation of the father's family and to all the circumstances
of the case, the expenses of the education and main
tenance of such minor may be defrayed out of the income
of his own property, in whole or in part, as judged rea
sonable, and must be directed by the court; and the
charges therefore may be allowed accordingly in the settle
ment of the accounts of his guardian. [In effect April
15th, 1880.]
§ 1758. Every testamentary guardian must give bond
and qualify, and has the same powers and must perform
the same duties with regard to the person and estate of
his ward as guardians appointed by the court, except so
far as their powers and duties are legally modified, en
larged, or changed by the will by which such guardian
was appointed. [In effect April 15th, 1880. ]
Testamentary guardian—when not entitled to custody and tuition
of minor. 37 Cal. 657 : bond of, see sec. 1764 : need not have letters Is
sued, 15 Cal. 227. .
§ 1759. Nothing contained in this chapter affects or
impairs the power of any court to appoint a guardian to
defend the interests of any minor interested in any suit
or matter pending therein.
Guardian ad litem—sees. 372, 373, 1722, 1763; 19 Cal. 629; but see 42
Cal. 484.
aeticle ii.
Guardians op Insane and incompetent Persons.
§ 1763. When it is represented to the Superior Court,
or a judge thereof, upon verified petition of any relative
or friend, that any person is insane, or from any cause
mentally incompetent to manage his property, such court
or judge must cause a notice to be given to the supposed
insane or incompetent person of the time and place of
hearing the case, not less than five days before the time0oy66
so appointed; and such person, if able to attend, must be
produced on the hearing. [In effect April 15th, 1880. ]
Insane person—placed in asylum, Civil Code,sec. 258 : homestead of,
see Stats. 1874, p. 582.
G-nardian ad litem—of Insane or Incompetent person, sees. 372, 373,
1722.
Letters of guardianship—of lunatic, not collaterally attackable, 4
Cal. 310 : application for, should be made In county where Incompetent
person resides, My. P. Rep. 97.
§ 1764. If, after a full hearing and examination upon
such petition, it appear to the court that the person in
question is incapable of taking care of himself and man
aging his property, such court must appoint a guardian
of his person and estate, with the powers and duties in
this
Party
chapter
appointed
specified.
guardian—45
[In Cal.
effect
176;April
49 Cal. 15th,
590; My.
1880.]
P. Rep. 10.
§ 1765. Every guardian appointed, as provided in the
preceding section, has the care and custody of the person
of his ward, and the management of all his estate, until
such guardian is legally discharged; and he must give
bond to such ward, in like manner and with like condi
tions as before prescribed with respect to the guardian of
a minor.
Discharge of guardian—generally, 36 Cal. 651.
Bond of guardian—sec. 1754.
§ 1766. Any person who has been declared insane or
incompetent, or the gu?frdian, or any relative of sucli
person within the third degree, or any friend, may apply,
by petition, to the Superior Court of the county in which
lie was declared insane, to have the fact of his restoration
to capacity judicially determined. The petition shall be
verified, and shall state that such person is then sane or
competent. Upon receiving the petition, the court must
appoint a day for a hearing before the court, and, if the
petitioner request it, shall order an investigation before a
jury, which shall be summoned and impanneled in the
same manner as juries are summoned and impanneled in
civil actions. The court shall cause notice of the trial to
be given to the guardian of the person so declared insane
or incompetent, if there be a guardian, and to his or her
husband or wife, if there be one, and to his or her father
or mother, if living in the county. On the trial, the guard
ian or relative of the person so declared insane or incom
petent, and, in tho discretion of the court, any other per
son, may ^ontest the right to the relief demanded. Wit
nesses may be required to appear and testify, as in civil
cases, and may be called and examined by the court on
its own motion. If it be found that the person be of
;:ound mind, and' capable of taking care of himself and
his property, his restoration to capacity shall be adjudged,
and the guardian of such person, if such person be not a
minor, shall cease. [In effect April 15th, 1880.]
§ 1768. Every guardian appointed under the provis
ions of this chapter, whether for a minor or any other per
son, must pay all just debts due from the ward, out of his
personal estate, and the income of his real estate, if suf
ficient; if not, then out of his real estate, upon obtaining
an order for the sale thereof, and disposing of the same
in the manner provided in this title for the sale of real es
tate of decedents.
Payment of debts—36 Cal. 651.
Order for sale of property—sec. 1770: legislative authority, to sell
land of minor, 60 Cal. 153: 51 Cal. 352: requisite for personalty, 9 Cal.
592; 42 Cal. 290.
Order directing payment—to guardian of Infant heirs, effect of, 3-5
Cal. 343.
§ 1769. Every guardian must settle all accounts of the
ward, and demand, sue for, and receive all debts due to
him, or may, with the approbation of the court, com
pound for the same and give discharges to the debtor, on
receiving a fair and just dividend of his estate and effects;
and he must appear for and represent his ward in all legal
suits and proceedings, unless another person be appointed
for that purpose. [In effect April 15th, 1880.]
Sue for ward—20 Cal. 659; not In his own name, 32 Cal. 111.
Appear for ward—19 Cal. 632; 42 Cal. 4S4.
§ 1770. Every guardian must manage the estate of his
ward frugally and without waste, and apply the income
and profits thereof, as far as may be necessary, for the
comfortable and suitable maintenance and support of the
ward and his family, if there be any; and if such in
come and profits be insufficient for that purpose, the
guardian may sell the real estate, upon obtaining an or
der of the court therefore, as provided, a"ad must apply
the proceeds of such sale, as far as may be necessary, for
the maintenance and support of the ward and his family,
if there be any.
Manage the estate-liable for not taking security. My. P. Kep. 230:
may employ agent, 36 Cal. 651 : must be appointed, 9 Cal. 591.
Sale of property—and disposition of proceeds, sec. 1777 et seq.
§ 1771. "When a guardian has advanced for the neces
sary maintenance, support, or education of his ward, an
amount not disproportionate to the value of his estate
or his condition of life, and the same is made to ap
pear to the satisfaction of the court, by proper vouchers
and proofs, the guardian must be allowed credit therefore
in his settlements. Whenever a guardian fails, neglects,
or refuses to furnish suitable or necessary maintenance,
support, or education for his ward, the court may order
him to do so, and enforce such order by properprocess.
Whenever any third person, at his request, supplies a
ward with such suitable and necessary maintenance,
support, or education, and it is shown to have been done
after refusal or neglect of the guardian to supply the
same, the court may direct the guardian to pay there
for out of the estate, and enforce such payment by due
process.
Before this section enacted—Held that court had no such powers as
to reimbursement, 40 Cal. 456.
Waiver of reimbursement—by guardian, My. P. Kep. 69.
§ 1772. The guardian may join in and assent to a par
tition of the real estate of the ward, wherever such as
sent may be given by any person.
Assent to partition—sec. 795: provision inapplicable, 19 Cal. 217: ap
pearance by guardian, sees. 372, 1722.
§ 1773. Every guardian must return to the court an
inventory of the estate of his ward within three-months
after his appointment, and annually thereafter. When
the value of the estate exceeds the sum of one hundred
thousand dollars, semi-annual returns must be made to
the court. The court may, upon application made for
that purpose by any person, compel the guardian to
render an account to the court of the estate of his ward.
The inventories and accounts so to be returned or
rendered
tate of themust
wardbedescribed
sworn toinbythe
thefirst
guardian.
inventory
Allmustt
the t
appraised by appraisers appointed, sworn, and acting I
the manner provided for regulating the settlement of to
estates
ment ofofthe
decedents.
property therein
Such inventory,
described,with
mustthe
be appraise*}
records*
by the clerk of the court in a proper book kept in
office for that purpose. Whenever any other property <
the estate of any ward is discovered, not included in tl
inventory of the estate already returned, and wo
any other property has been succeeded to, or acquired by
any ward, or for his benefit, the like proceedings must be
had for the return and appraisement thereof that are
herein provided in relation to the first inventory and re
turn. [In effect April 15th, 1880.]
Accounts sworn to by guardian—when by another, 36 CaL 651:
where Joint guardians, sec. 1775.
Appraisers—generally, sec. 1444.
§ 1774. The guardian must, upon the expiration of a
year from the time of his appointment, and as often there
after as he may be required, present his account to the
court for settlement and allowance. [In effect April 15th,
1880.]
settlement,
Accounts contest
of guardian—sec.
on, 36 Cal. 653:
1773:must
presentation
cover foreign
for allowance
funds, My.and
P.
Rep. 225: liability for loan without security, My. F. Rep. 230.
§ 1775. "When an account is rendered by two or more
joint guardians, the court may, in its discretion, allow the
same upon the oath of any of them. [In effect April 15th,
1880.]
§ 1776. Every guardian must be allowed the amount
of his reasonable expenses incurred in the execution of
his trust, and he must also have such compensation for his
services as the court in which his accounts are settled
deems just and reasonable.
Expenses incurred—advances made, sec. 1771.
Hearing of application.
Who
Costs may
to bebeawarded,
examinedto on
whom.
such hearing.
Order of sale, to specify what.
Bond
before selling.
All proceedings
for sales of property by guardians to conform
to chapter seven of this title.
Limit
of
order
of
Conditions of salessale.
of real estate of minor heirs. Bond and
mortgage to be given for deferred payments,
§ 1792. Court may order the Investment of money of the ward.
§ 1777. "When the income of an estate under guardian
ship is insufficient to maintain the ward and his family,
or to maintain and educate the ward when a minor, his
guardian may sell his real or personal estate for that pur
pose,
Power
upon
of guardian—to
obtaining an
sell order
property,
therefore.
sec'1768 and notes.
§ 1778. When, it appears to the satisfaction of the
court, upon the petition of the guardian, that for the
benefit of his ward his real estate, or some part thereof,
should be sold, and theproceeds thereof put out at in
terest, or invested in some productive stock, or in the im
provement or security of any other real estate of the
ward, his guardian may sell the same for such purpose,
upon obtaining an order therefore.
Petition of the guardian—requisites of, 20 Cal. 352.
Order for sale of property—sec. 1768n.
§ 1779. If the estate is sold for the purposes men
tioned in this article, the guardian must apply the pro
ceeds of the sale to such purposes, as far as necessary,
and put out the residue, if any, on interest, or invest it
in the best manner in his power, until the capital is
wanted for the maintenance of the ward and his family,
or the education of his children, or for the education of
the ward when a minor, in which case the capital may
lie used for that purpose, as far as may be necessary, in
like manner as if it had been personal estate of the ward.
§ 1780. If the estate is sold for the purpose of putting
out or investing the proceeds, the guardian must make
the investment according to his best judgment, or in pur
suance of any order that may be made by the court. [In
effect April 15th, 1880.]
§ 1781. To obtain an order for such sale, the guardian
must present to the court in which he was appointed
guardian a verified petition therefore, setting forth the
condition of the estate of his ward, and the facts and cir
cumstances on which the petition is founded, tending to
show the necessity or expediency of a sale. [In effect
April 15th, 1886]
Requisites of petition—20 Cal. 382.
§ 1782. If it appear to the court, or a judge thereof,
from the petition, that it is necessary or would be bene
ficial to the ward that the real estate, or some part of it,
should be sold, or that the real and personal estate should
be sold, the court must thereupon make an order direct
ing the next of kin of the ward, and all persons inter
ested in the estate, to appear before the court, at a time
and place therein specified, not less than four iior more
than eight weeks from the time of making such order, to
show cause why an order should not be granted for the
sale of such estate. If it appear that it is necessary or
would be beneficial to the ward to sell the personal estate,
or some part of it, the court must order the sale to be
made. [In effect April 15th, 1880.1
§ 1783. A copy of the order must be personally served
on the next of kin of the ward, and on all persons inter
ested in the estate, at least fourteen days before the hear
ing of the petition, or must be published at least once a
week for three successive weeks in a newspaper printed
in the county, or if there be none printed in the county,
then in such newspaper as may be specified by the court
in the order. If written consent to making the order of
sale is subscribed by all persons interested therein, and
the next of kin, notice need not be served or published.
[In effect April 15th, 1880.]
Notice—compare sec. 1539 and 46 Cal. 635.
§ 1784. The court, at the time and place appointed in
the order, or such other time to whicli the hearing is post
poned, upon proof of the service or publication of the
order, must hear and examine the proofs and allegations
of the petitioner, and of the next of kin, and of all other
persons interested in the estate who oppose the applica
tion. [In effect April 15th, 1880.]
Compare—sec. 1540.
§ 1785. On the hearing, the guardian may be exam
ined on oath, and witnesses may be produced, and ex
amined by either party, and process to compel their
attendance and testimony may be issued by the court, in
the same manner and with like effect as in other cases
provided for in this title. [In effect April 15th, 1880 ]
Compelling attendance and testimony of witnesses—sec. 1985 ei
seq.
§ 1786. If any person appears1 and objects to the
granting of any order prayed for under the provisions of
T his article, and it appear to the court that either the peti
tion or the objection thereto is sustained, the court may,
in granting or refusing the order, award costs to the party
prevailing, and enforce the payment thereof.
§ 1787. If, after a full examination, it appears neces
sary, or for the benefit of the ward, that his real estate, or
some part thereof, should be sold, the court may grant an
order therefore, specifying therein the causes or reasons
why the sale is necessary or beneficial, and may, if the
same has been prayed for in the petition, order such sale
to be made either at public or private sale.
§ 1788. Every guardian authorized to sell real estate
must, before the sale, give bond to the ward, with suffi
cient surety, to be approved by the court, or a judge there
of, with condition to sell the same in the manner, and to
account for the proceeds of the sale as provided for in
this chapter, and chapter seven of this title. [In effect
April 15th, 1880.]
Bond on sale of realty—sec. 1389.
§ 1789. All the proceedings under petition of guardians for sales of
of their wards, giving notice,
and the hearing of such petitions, granting or refusing the
order of sale, directing the sale to be made at public or
private sale, reselling the same property, return of sale,
and application for confirmation thereof, notice and hear
ing of such application, making orders rejecting or con
firming sales and reports of sales, ordering and making
conveyances of property sold, accounting and the settle
ment of accounts, must be had and made as required by
t he provisions of this title concerning estates of decedents,
unless
Settlement
otherwise
of accounts—of
specially provided
guardian ofin infant
this chapter.
after letters revoted, sec. 1629i 52 Cal. 636.
§ 1790. No order of sale, granted in pursuance of this
article, continues in force more than one year after grant
ing the same, without a sale being had.
§ 1791. All sales of real estate of wards must be for
cash, or for part cash and part deferred payments, the
credit in no case to exceed three years from date of sale,
as in the discretion of the court is most beneficial to
the ward. Guardians making sales must demand and
receive from the purchasers, in case of deferred pay
ments, notes, and a mortgage on the real estate sold,
with such additional Becurity as the court deems neces
sary and sufficient to secure the prompt payment of the
amounts so deferred, and the interest thereon. [In effect
April 15th, 1880.]
§ 1792. The court, on the application of a guardian, or
any person interested in the estate of any ward, after
such notice to persons interested therein as the court shall
direct, may authorize and require the guardian to invest
the proceeds of sales, and any other of bis ward's money
in his hands, in real estate, or in any other manner most
to the interest of all concerned therein, and the court may
make such other orders and give such directions as are
needful for the management, investment, and disposition
of the estate and effects, as circumstances require. [In
effect April 15th, 1880.]
ARTICLE V.
Nok-Residewt Guardians and Wards.
§ 1793. When a person liable to be put under guard
ianship, according to the provisions of this chapter, re
sides without this State and has estate therein, any friend
of such person, or any one interested in his estate, in ex
pectancy or otherwise, may apply to the Superior Court
of any county in which there is any estate of such absent
person, for the appointment of a guardian, and if, after
notice given to all interested, in such manner as such
court orders by publication or otherwise, and a full hear
ing and examination, it appears proper, a guardian for
such absent person may be appointed. [In effect April
15th, 1880.]
Notices, insufficient—appointment not attackable by third persons
for, 19 Cal. 629.
Foreign guardian—sec. 1913.
§ 1794. Every guardian, appointed under the preced
ing section, has the same powers and performs the same
duties, with respect to the estate of the ward found
within this State, and with respect to the person of the
ward, if he shall come to reside therein, as are prescribed
-with respect to any other guardian appointed under this
chapter.
§ 1795. Every guardian must give bond to the ward,
in the manner and with the like conditions as hereinbe
fore provided for other guardians, except that the provi
sions respecting the inventory, the disposal of the estate
and effects, and the account to be rendered by the guard
ian, must be confined to such estate and effects as come
to his hands in this State.
Bond, inventory, account, etc.—sec. 1754.
§ 1796. The guardianship which is first lawfully
granted of any person residing without this State ex
tends to all the estate of the ward within this State, and
excludes the jurisdiction of the court of every other
county. [In effect April 15th, 1880.]
§ 1797. When the guardian and ward are both non
residents, and the ward is entitled to property in this
State, which may be removed to another State or foreign
country without conflict with any restriction or limitation
thereupon, or impairing the right of the ward thereto,
such property may be removed to the State or foreign
country of the residence of the ward, upon the applica
tion of the guardian to the Superior Court of the county
in which the estate of the ward, or the principal part
thereof, is situated. [In effect April 15th, 1880.]
§ 1798. The application must be made upon ten days'
notice to the resident executor, administrator, or guard
ian, if there be such, and upon such application the non
resident guardian must produce and file a certificate,
under the hand of the clerk and seal of the court, from
which his appointment was derived, showing:
1. A transcript of the record of his appointment;
2. That he has entered upon the discharge of his duties ;
3. That he is entitled, by the laws of the State of his
appointment, to the possession of the estate of the ward;
or, must produce and file a certificate, under the kand and
seal of the clerk of the court having jurisdiction in the
country of his residence, of the estates of persons under
guardianship, or of the highest court of such country,
attested by a minister, consul, or vice-consul of the
United States, resident in such country, that, by the laws
of such country, the applicant is entitled to the custody
of the estate of his ward, without the appointment of any
court. Upon such application, unless good cause to the
contrary is shown, the court must make an order grant
ing to such guardian leave to take and remove the prop
erty of hia ward to the State or place of his residence,
which is authority to him to sue for and receive the same
in his own name, for the use and benefit of his ward. [In
effect April 15th, 1880.]
§ 1799. Such order is a discharge of the executor, ad
ministrator, local guardian, or other person in whose pos
session the property may be at the time the order is made,
on filing with the court the receipt therefore of the foreign
guardian of such absent ward. [In effect April 15th, 1880. 1
§ 1800. Upon complaint made to him by any guardian,
ward, creditor, or other person interested in the estate or
having a prospective interest therein as heir or otherwise,
against any one suspected of having concealed, embez
zled, or conveyed away any of the money, goods, or ef
fects, or an instrument in writing belonging to the ward
or to his estate, the Superior Court, or a judge thereof,
may cite such suspected person to appear before such
court, and may examine and proceed with him on such
charge in the manner provided in this title with respect to
persons suspected of and charged with concealing or em
bezzling the effects of a decedent. [In effect April 15th,
1880.]
Embezzlement—of property of estate, sec. 1458 et $eq.
§ 1801. When a guardian, appointed either by the
testator or a court, becomes insane or otherwise incapable
of discharging his trust or unsuitable therefore, or lias
wasted or mismanaged the estate, or failed forthirty days
to render an account or make a return, the Superior Court
may, upon such notice to the guardian as the court may
require, remove him and compel him to surrender the es
tate of the ward to the person found to be lawfully enti
tied thereto. Every guardian may resign when it appears
proper to allow the same ; and upon the resignation or re
moval of a guardian, as herein provided, the court may
appoint another in the place of the guardian who resigned
or was removed. [In effect April 15th, 1880.]
Removal of guardian—at chambers, 38 Cal. 442 : when proper, 47 Cal.
629.
§ 1802. The marriage of a minor ward terminates the
guardianship of the person of such ward, but not tho
estate; and the guardian of an insane or other person
may be discharged by the court, when it appears, on the
application of the ward or otherwise, that fhe guardian
ship is no longer, necessary. [In effect April 15th, 1880.}
§ 1803. The court may require a new bond to be given
by a guardian whenever such court deems it necessary,
and may discharge the existing sureties from further lia
bility, after due notice given as such court may direct,
when it shall appear that no injury can result therefrom
to those interested in the estate. [In effect April 15th,
1880.]
§ 1804. Every bond given by a guardian must be filed
and preserved in the office of the clerk of the Superior
Court of the county, and in case of a breach of a condi
tion thereof, may be prosecuted for the use and benefit of
the ward, or of any person interested in the estate. [In.
effect April 15th, 1880.]
Suit on bond—party beneficially Interested, sec. 367 and notes; 32
Cal. 111.
§ 1805. No action can be maintained against the sure
ties on any bond given by a guardian, unless it be com
menced within three years from the discharge or removal
of the guardian; but if, at the time of such discharge, the
person entitled to bring such action is under any legal
disability to sue, the action may be commenced at any
time
Person
within
underthree
legal disability—extension
years after such disability
for, 36 Cal. 651.
is removed.
§ 1806. No action for the recovery of any estate sold
by a guardian can be maintained by the ward, or by any
person claiming under him, unless it is commenced within
three years next after the termination of the guardian
ship, or, when a legal disability to sue exists by reason of
minority or otherwise, at the time when the cause of
action accrues, within three years next after the removal
thereof.
Code Civ. Peoc—48.
§ 1807. The court, in its discretion, -whenever necesBary, may appoint more than one guardian of any person
subject to guardianship, who must give bond and be gov
erned and liable in all respects as a sole guardian.
§ 1808. Any order appointing a guardian, must be
entered as and become a decree of the court. The provi
sions of this title relative to the estates of decedents, so
far as they relate to the practice in the Superior Court,
apply to proceedings under this chapter. [In effect April
§ 1809. The provisions of section ten hundred and
fifty-seven are hereby declared to apply to guardians ap
pointed by the court, and to the bonds taken or to be
taken from such guardians, and to the sureties on such
bonds.
§ 1811. A married woman Imay become a sole trader
by the judgment of the County Court of the county in
which she has resided for six naonths next preceding the
application.
Sole trader law—strict construction, 22 Cal. 283.
County Court—see Superseded Coubts, sec. 76n.
§ 1812. A person intending to make application to be
come a sole trader must publish notice of such intention in
a newspaper published in the county, or if none, then in
a newspaper published in an adjoining county, for four
successive weeks. The notice must specify the term and
the day upon which application will be made, the nature
and place of the business proposed to be conducted by
her, and the name of her husband.
Four successive weeks—23 Cal. 388.
Term—abolition of terms, sec. 73n.
§ 1813. Ten days prior to the day named in the notice,
the applicant must file a verified petition setting forth :
1. That the application is made in good faith, to enable
the applicant to support herself, or herself and others de
pendent upon her, giving their names and relation;
2. The fact of insufficient support from her husband,
and the causes thereof, if known;
3. Any other grounds of application which are good
causes for a divorce, with the reason why a divorce is not
sought; and
4. The nature of the business proposed to be conducted,
and the capital to be invested therein, if any, and the
sources from which it is derived.
§ 1814. The applicant may invest in the business pro
posed to be conducted, a sum derived from the community
property or of the separate property of the husband, not
exceeding five hundred dollars.
§ 1815. Any creditor of the husband may oppose the
application, by filing in the court (prior to the day named
in the notice) a written opposition verified, containing
either :
1. A specific denial of the truth of any material allega
tion of the petition; or setting forth,
2. That the application is made for the purpose of de
frauding the opponent; or
3. That the application is made to prevent, or will pre
vent him from collecting his debt.
Subdivision 2. Defrauding the opponent—25 Cal. 225: and see 4t
Cal. 105.
§ 1816. On the day named in the notice, or on such
other day to which the hearing may be postponed by the
court, the applicant must make proof of publication of
the notice hereinbefore required, and the issues of fact
joined, if any, must be tried as in other cases; if no issues
are joined, tlio court must hear the proofs of the applicant
and find the facts in accordance therewith.
§ 1817. If the facts found sustain the petition, the
court must render judgment authorizing the applicant to
carry on in her own name and on her own account the
business specified in the notice and petition.
§ 1818 The sole trader must make and file with the
clerk of the court an affidavit, in the following form:
I, A. B., do, in the presence of Almighty Goa, solemnly
swear that this application was made in good faith, for
the purpose of enabling me to support myself, (and any
dependent, such as husband, parent, sister, child, or the
like, naming them, if any) and not with any view to de
fraud, delay, or hinder any creditor or creditors of my
husband ; and that of the monies so to be used by me in
business, not more than five hundred dollars have come
either directly or indirectly from my husband. So help
me God.
A certified copy of the decree, with this oath indorsed
thereon, must be recorded in the office of the recorder of
the county where the business is to be carried on, in a
book to be kept for such purpose.
Decree
Cal.
197. and oath—of sole trader, though informal, admissible, 48
§ 1819. When the judgment is made and entered, and
a copy thereof, with the affidavit provided for in section
one thousand eight hundred and eighteen, duly recorded,
the person therein named is entitled to carry on the busi
ness specified, in her own name, and the property, rev
enues, money, and credits so by her invested, and the
profits thereof, belong exclusively to her, and are not
liable for any debts of her husband, and she, thereafter,
has all the privileges of, and is liable to all legal pro
cesses provided for debtors and creditors, and may
sue and be sued alone without being joined with her
husband; provided, however, that she shall not be at
liberty to carry on said business in any other county than
that named in the notice provided for in section one thou
sand eight hundred and twelve, until she has recorded in
sucli other county a copy of said judgment and affidavit.
[In effect March 16th, 1876.]
Carry on the business specified—husband's connection, 7 Gal. 455;
29 Cal. 564.
Sue and be sued alone—sec. 370; 6 Cal. 497; 17 Cal. 119; 22 Cal. 522;
31 Cal. 104; 39 Cal. 287.
§ 1820. A married woman who is adjudged a sole
trader is responsible and liable for the maintenance of
her minor children.
§ 1821. The husband of a sole trader is not liable for
any debts contracted by her in the course of her sole
trader's business, unless contracted upon his written con
sent.
§ 1822. Nothing in this Code affects any of the provi
sions of "an act for the relief of insolvent debtors and
protection of creditors," approved May 4th, 1852, or of
the acts amendatory thereof, approved respectively March
12th, 1858, April 27th, 1860, and April 27th, 1863; but such
acts are recognized as continuing in force notwithstand
ing
Insolvent
the provisions
Act of 1880—Stats.
of this Code.
1880, p. 316.
Insolvency decisions
§ 1823. Judicial evidence is the means, sanctioned by
law, of ascertaining in a judicial proceeding the truth
respecting a question of fact.
Evidence—law
sec. 1868,
1825:1870:
kindsproduction
of, sec. 1827:of, degrees
1828 et3,
seq.:
relevancy of,of,sees.
see sec. of,sec.
1825, subd.
note : value and effect of, see sec. 1825, subd. 5, note.
§ 1824. Proof is the effect of evidence, the establish
ment of a fact by evidence.
Definition of term—31 Cal. 201.
,
Proof—degree required, sec. 1826: order of, sees. 607, 2042: extent of,
sees. 1867, 1869 : limits of, sees. 1868, 1870 : burden of, sees. 1869n, 1981 :
method of making, 31 Cal. 201.
§ 1825. The law of evidence, which is the subject of
this part of the Code, is a collection of general rules
established by law:
1. For declaring what is to be taken as true without
proof;
2. For declaring the presumptions of law, both those
which are disputable and those which are conclusive ; and,
3. For the production of legal evidence ;
4. For the exclusion of whatever is not legal;
5. For determining in certain cases, the value and effect
of evidence.
Subdivision 1. Proof unnecessary—when, see sec. 1827, subd. 1,
Subdivision 2. Presumptions—sees. 1959, 1961-1963 and notes.
Subdivision 3. Production of evidence—sees. 1981-2054.
Subdivision 4. Exclusion of evidence—sees. 1867, 1868.
Subdivision 5. Value and effect of evidence—sec. 2061; also see
sec. 1828 et seq.
§ 1826. The law does not require demonstration ; that
is, such a degree of proof as, excluding possibility of
error, produces absolute certainty, because such proof is
rarely possible. Moral certainty only is required, or that
degree of proof which produces conviction iu an unprej
udiced
Proof—sec.
mind.
1824 and note.
§ 1827. There are four kinds of evidence:
1. The knowledge of the court;
2. The testimony of witnesses;
i>. Writings;
4. Other material objects presented to the senses.
Subdivision 1. Knowledge of the court—sec. 1875 and notes.
Subdivision 2. Witnesses—sees. 1878-1884.
Subdivision 3. Writings—sees. 1887-1951.
Subdivision 4. Other material objects—sec. 1954.
§ 1828. There are several degrees of evidence :
1. Primary and secondary;
2. Direct and indirect ;
3. Prima facie, partial, satisfactory, indispensable, and
conclusive. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
§ 1829. Primary evidence is that kind of evidence
which, under every possible circumstance, affords the
greatest certainty of the fact iu question. Thus, a writ
ten instrument is itself the best possible evidence of its
existence and contents. [In effect July 1st, 1874. J
§ 1830. Secondary evidence is that which is inferior to
primary. Thus, a copy of au instrument, or oral evidence
of its contents, is secondary evidence of the instrument
and contents. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Secondary evidence—that con\eyance authorized by corporation.
52 Cal. 192.
Contents of a writing—evidence of, sec. 1855.
§ 1831. Direct evidence is that which proves the fact
in dispute directly, without an inference or presumption,
and which in itself, if true, conclusively establishes that
fact. For example: if the fact in dispute be au agree
ment, the evidence of a witness who was present and
witnessed the making of it, is direct.
§ 1832. Indirect evidence is that which tends to estab
lish the fact in dispute by proving another, and which,
though true, does not of itself conclusively establish that
fact, but which affords an inference or presumption of its
existence. For example : a witness proves an admission
of the party to the fact in dispute. This proves a fact,
from
Indirect
which
evidence—sees.
the fact in 1957-1963.
dispute is inferred.
§ 1833. Prima facie evidence is that which suffices for
the proof of a particular fact, until contradicted and over
come by other evidence. For example: the certificate of
a recording officer is primafacie evidence of a record, but
it may afterward be rejected upon proof that there is no
such record. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Prima facie evidence—seal of corporation as, 52 CaL 192.
Disputable presumption—sec. 1963.
fl834. Partial evidence is that which goes to establish
etached fact, in a series tending to the fact in dispute.
It may be received, subject to be rejected as incompetent,
uuless connected with the fact in dispute by proof of
other facts. For example: on an issue of title to real
property, evidence of the continued possession of a re
mote occupant is partial, for it is of a detached fact,
which may or may not be afterward connected with the
fact in dispute.
Connected with the fact in dispute—sec. 1868.
§ 1835. That evidence is deemed satisfactory which
ordinarily produces moral certainty or conviction in an
unprejudiced mind. Such evidence alone will justify a
verdict. Evidence less than this is denominated slight
evidence.
Satisfactory evidence—to justify verdict, sec. 2061, subd. 5.
§ 1836. Indispensable evidence is that without which
a particular fact cannot be proved.
Indispensable evidence—sees. 1967-1974.
§ 1837. Conclusive or unanswerable evidence is that
which the law does not permit to be contradicted. For
example: the record of a court of competent jurisdiction
cannot
Conclusive
be contradicted
evidence—sees.
by1908,
the1962,
parties
1978. to it.
§ 1838. Cumulative evidence is additional evidence of
the same character to the same point.
§ 1839. Corroborative evidence is additional evidence
of a different character, to the same point.
§ 1844. The direct evidence of one witness who is en
titled to full credit is sufficient for proof of any fact, ex
cept perjury and treason.
definition,
1878: witness,
competency,
sec.One
1*79witness—witness,
et seq. : two witnesses
for lostsec.
or destroyed
will, sec.
1339: per
jury and treason, more than one witness, sec. 1968.
§ 1845. A witness can testify of those facts only
which he knows of his own knowledge; that is, which
are derived from his own perceptions, except in those few
express cases in which his opinions or inferences, or the
declarations of others, are admissible.
Opinions, inferences, declarations—see sec. 1870 and notes: testi
mony as to, 22 Cal. 565; 43 Cal. 485.
§ 1846. A witness can be heard only upon oath or af
firmation, and upon a trial he can be heard only in the
presence and subject to the examination of all the parties,
ifWitnesses—competency
Witness—defined,
Oath
Examination
theyorchoose
affirmation—administration
oftowitnesses—sees.
sec.
attend
1878.
of,and
sec. 1879
examine.
2042-2054.
etof,aeq.
sees. 2093-2097.

§ 1847. A witness is presumed to speak the truth.
This presumption, however, may be repelled by the man
ner in which he testifies, by the character of his testi
mony, or by evidence affecting his character for truth,
honesty, or integrity, or his motives, or by contradictory
evidence; and the jury are the exclusive judges of his
credibility.
Witness—sec. 1878 et seq.
Presumed to speak the truth—sec. 1963, subd. 1 : evidence of good
character, sec. 2053.
Presumption repelled—manner of testifying, sec. 2061, subd. 2 : char
acter of testimony, sec. 2061, subd. 3 : impeaching credit, sees. 2049, 2051,
2052: motives, hostility, 52 Cal. 380: contradictory evidence, sec. 2049,
2051.
Jury exclusive judges of credibility—sec. 2061.
§ 1848. The rightB of a party cannot be prejudiced by
the declaration, act, or omission of another, except by
virtue of a particular relation between them; thereforee,
proceedings against one cannot affect another. [In effect
July 1st, 1874.]
Particular relation—requisite, 2 Cal- 145: wife, where marriage in
issue,9 Cal. 593: husband, crime of, not Imputed to wlfe,49 Cal. 637:
partner,
sec. 1870,33 subd.
parties to47fraud,
20 Cal. 598: offi
cers and agent,
masteretc.
of vessel,
Cal. 615:: .attorney,
Cal. 249.
Declaration, etc., of another—when admissible, sees. 1849-1853.
§ 1849. Where, however, one derives title to real prop
erty from another, the declaration,, act, or omission of the
latter, while holding the title, in relation to the property,
is evidence against the former.
Construction of section—50 Cal. 478.
Declarations of predecessor—admissible, 12 Cal. 163; 30 Cal. 430; 33
Cal. 466; 38 Cal. 51; 42 Cal. 298: relating to the real property, 50 Cal. 478:
while holding the title, 2 Cal. 148: 12 Cal. 496; 25 Cal. 202 ; 38 Cal. 278:
against the former, 23 Cal. 347 ; 49 Cal. 294; 52 Cal. 348: estoppel by, 5
Cal. 84: analogous doctrine as to personalty, 40 Cal. 474; and see
" fraud," under Res Gest-s:, sec. 1850n.
§ 18S0. "Where, also, the declaration, act, or omission
forms part of a transaction, which is itself the fact in dis
pute, or evidence of that fact, such declaration, act, or
omission is evidence, as part of the transaction.
§ 1851. And where the question in dispute between
the parties is the obligation or duty of a third person,
whatever would be the evidence for or against such per
son is primafacie evidence between the parties. [In effect
July 1st, 1874.]
§ 1852. The declaration, act, or omission of a member
of a family, who is a decedent, or out of the jurisdiction, is
also admissible as evidence of common reputation, in
oases where, on questions of pedigree, such reputation is
admissible.
Declaration of decedent—sec. 1870, subd. 4.
Common reputation— on questions of pedigree, etc., sec. 1870,
subd. 11.
§ 1853. The declaration, act, or omission of a dece
dent, having sufficient knowledge of the subject, against
his pecuniary interest, is also admissible as evidence to
that extent against his successor in interest.
Decedent's declaration against interest—sec. 1870, subd. 4; 44 Cal.
269; 45 Cal. 137; 46 Cal. 610; 47 Cal. 342 : entries and other writings, sec.
1946.
§ 1854. When part of an act, declaration, conversa
tion, or writing is given in evidence bv one party, the
whole on the same subject may be inquired into by the
other; when a letter is read, the answer may be given;
and when a detached act, declaration, conversation, or
writing is given in evidence, any other act, declaration,
conversation, or writing, which is necessary to make it
understood, may also be given in evidence.
Fart, admitting more—section applicable, 3 Cal. 106; 5 Cal. 133; 9
error under section, when not prejudicial, 50 Cal. 137: documents,
cross-examination, etc., sees. 2047, 2048 : related documents as evidence,
47 Cal. 294.
§ 1855. There can be no evidence of the contents of a
writing, other than the writing itself, except in the follow
ing cases :
1. Where the original has been lost or destroyed; in
which case proof of the loss or destruction must first be
made;
2. When the original is in the possession of the party
against whom the evidence is offered, and he fails to pro
duce it after reasonable notice ;
3. When the original "is a record or other document in
the custody of a public officer;
4. When the original has been recorded, and a certified
copy of the record is made evidence by this Code or other
statute ;
5. When the original consists of numerous accounts or
other documents, which cannot be examined in court
-without great loss of time, and the evidence sought from
them is only the general result of the whole.
In the cases mentioned in subdivisions three and four,
a copy of the original or of the record must be produced;
iu those mentioned in subdivisions one and two, either a
copy or oral evidence of the contents. [In effect July 1st,
1874.]
Nature of provision—9
§ 18S6. When the terms of an agreement have been
reduced to writing by the parties, it is to be considered as
containing all those terms, and thereforee there can be be
tween the parties and their representatives, or successors
in interest, no evidence of the terms of the agreement
other than the contents of the writing, except in the fol
lowing cases :
1. Where a mistake or imperfection of the writing is put
in issue by the pleadings;
2. Where the validity of the agreement is the fact in disCodb Civ. Proc—4».
pute. But this section does not exclude other evidence 01
the circumstances under which the agreement was made,
or to which it relates, as denned in section eighteen hund
red and sixty, or to explain an extrinsic ambiguity, or to
establish illegality or fraud. The term agreement in
cludes deeds and wills, as well as contracts between par
ties.
Parol evidence inadmissible—to vary or contradict written agree
ment,
super41
sedes.
Parol
to explain,
sec.
1982;evidence—admissible,
48 Cal. 147: ambiguity, alterations
to explain, 11andCal.erasures,
194: circumstances,
see surrounding circumstances: consideration, to show real, sec. 1962,
subd. 2: 48 Cal. 97: deed, see mortgage: discharge, to show, see
waiver: fraud, to establish, see Civil Code, sec. 1640: mistake or Im
perfection, to correct, sec. 1856, subd. 1, supra: Civil Code, sec. 1640; 12
surrounding:
circumstances, to show, sec. 1860 and notes, 51 Cal. 125 : 52 Cal. 496; 53
Cal.
120: oftrust,
or absence
of, to show,where,
20 Cal. 126;
Cal.subd.
580: 522,Cal.
363:;
validity
agreement
controverted,
sec. 221856,
supra
4S Cal. 610 ; 50 Cal. 595 : waiver or discharge, to show, 16 Cal. 133 : 19 Cal.
158; 30 Cal. 547 ; 39 Cal. 169; 60 Cal. 9; 51 Cal. 166, 575.
according
§ 1857. toThe
thelanguage
meaningofit abears
writing
in the
is toplace
be interpreted
of its exe
cution, unless the parties have reference to a different
place.
Interpretation of contract—lex loci, Civil Code, sec. 1616.
the§ office
1858.ofInthethejudge
construction
is simplyoftoa ascertain
statute or and
instrument,
declare
what is in terms or in substance contained therein, not to
insert what has been omitted, or to omit what has been
inserted ; and where there are several provisions or par
ticulars, such a construction is, if possible, to be adopted
as will give effect to all.
Construction—generally, sec. 1859 and notes : declaring what Is writ

§ 1859. In a construction of a statute, the intention
of the Legislature, and in the construction of the instru
ment, the intention of the parties, is to be pursued if
possible ; and when a general and particular provision are
inconsistent, the latter is paramount to the formeT. So a
particular intent will control a general one, that is incon
sistent with it.
Construction of statutes—Amendments, and conflicting statutes, sec.
18n. Conflict of statutes. 51 Cal. 474 : Codes, 51 Cal. 295 : and conflicting
statutes,
Constitutionality, contrary construction, see Masdatoey Acts. Forfeiture, statutes
imposing strictly construed, 1 Cal. 55. Generally, 48 Cal. 124, 127, and
seeKULES. Grant, legislative, 13 Cal. 458. Mandatory acts, 26  but
under
Code,
see
sec.
4.
Penal
statutes,
strict
construction
Codes, 45 Cal. 431; 49 Cal. 68. Remedial statutes, 2 Cal.596; abolished
3 Cal. 119;by6
Cal. 470. Repeal of statutes, see sec. 18 and notes; 15 Cal. 294; Lamb v.
Schottler, March 17th, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 140; Hib. S. & L. Soc. v. Jor
dan,Cal.May
1880, 5 Pac.statutes,
C. L. J.S3381Cal.
: statutes
continued
49
393.19th,
Retroactive
274, and
see sec.under
3 andCodes,
note:
held not, 50 Cal. 244 ; 61 Cal. 86, 91, 92, 360 ; 53 Cal. 81. Rules. Code, con
struction for, sees. 4-15 and notes : contemporaneous exposition as aid.
Civil Code, sec. 3535; 1 Cal. 523; 31 Cal. 86; 36 Cal. 638: expression of
one
is exclusion
another,
26 Cal.is 378
: generally,
see 15sees.
1859,thing
1860-1866:
intentionof of
legislature
guide,
6 Cal. 216;
Cal.1857294;
legislative dis
cussions
immaterial,
28
Cal.
95;
41
Cal.
146:
particular
provision,
etc.,
controls, Civil Code, sec. 3534; 7 Cal. 96: retrospective construction not
favored, 27 Cal. 159: title as aid, 16 Cal. 365; 19 Cal. 512; 36 Cal. 565; 47
Cal. 222: 51 Cal. 303; 52 Cal. 459, 553 : words and phrases, as to, sees. 15,
16,17;
24 Cal. 539;
332:199.
and Time,
wherestatutes
error in,fixing,
see 28 Cal.
265; 31 13Cal.518;
Cal. 114. Special
law,43 53Cal.Cal.
see
and see under CONSTITUTION
ALITY. Construction ofinstruments—Bonds, 51 Cal. 473 : see Under
takings
sec. 941m, and
Contracts,
infra.
18Cal.647. Generally,
Contracts—conditions
ln,sec.457n;
27 Cal.
27; 53Charters,
Cal. 721:
forfeiture, imposing strictly construed, 1 Cal. 55; 48 Cal. 248: insurance
policy, 51 Cal. 101 ; Helbing t>. Svea Ins. Co., Feb. 12th. 1880, 4 Pac. C. L.
5. 555 ; Fishbeck v. Phoenix Ins. Co., March 24th, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 212 ;
Williams r. Hartford
Ins. Co.,
29th, 1880,1733,
5 Pac.
C. L. J. 227 :
interpretation
of. CivilF. Code,
sees.March
1635-1661,1731,
1734,2053,35343538,
8541,
3542
construction and Interpretation of, 15 CaL 21 :17 Cal. 44; 22 Cal. 227; 24
CM. 136; 25 Cal. 175; 26 Cal. 88; 29Cal.407; 41 Cal. 485; 47 Cal. 151.453; 50
Cal.Cal.
171,422,
485,532,613,655
51 Cal.
198, 352,
579, 655;
53
135: description
In, ;sec.
2077 94,
and188,notes;
34 640
Cal.; 52
334;Cal.
50 Cal.
321,
333 ; 52 Cal. 154, 579: mistake In, Leonid p. Lazzarovkii, June 4th, 1880,
5 Pac. C. L. J. 492: taxes, for, 50 Cal. 70; 51 Cal. 103; 53 Cal. 666; Grimm
r.Aug.
O'Connell,
7th. 1880,sees.
5 Pac.
C. L. J.and
294;notes.
HearstMortgages,
r. Egglestone,
18th, 1880.April
Generally,
1856-1866
sec.
744 ; 51 Cal. 188; 53Cal.4*7. Poweri of attorney, 47 Cal. 242; & Cal.34«;
jl CaL 198. Willi, see Civil Code, sees. 1310, 1317-1351, 1376; 36 Cal. 75;
48 CaL 165, 568, 643; 49 Cal. 76, 506; 50 CaL 595.
§ 1860. For the proper construction of an instrument,
the circumstances under which it was made, including the
situation of the subject of the instrument, and of the par
ties to it, may also be shown, so that the judge be placed
in the position of those whose language he is to interpret.
Construction of instruments—sec. 1859n.
Surrounding circumstances—may be shown, Civil Code, sec. 1647;
Cal. 595: usage, see. 1H70, subd. 12: descriptive part of conveyance, sec.
2077 ; 34 Cal. 334, 624; 36 CaL 606; 38 CaL 482.
§ 1861. The terms of a writing are presumed to have
been used in their primary and general acceptation, but
evidence is nevertheless admissible that they have a local,
technical, or Otherwise peculiar signification, and were so
used and understood in the particular instance, in which
case the agreement must be construed accordingly.
Peculiar signification of terms—may be shown, 14 Cal. 23; 34 Cal.
624 ; 47 Cal. 151 : compare Civil Code, sees. 1644, 1645.
§ 1862. "When an instrument consists partly of written
words and partly of a printed form, and the two are in
consistent, the former controls the latter.
Compare—Civil Code, sec. 1651.
§ 1863. When the characters in which an instrument
is written are difficult to be deciphered, or the language of
tho instrument is not understood by the court, the evi
dence of persons skilled in deciphering the characters, or
who understand the language, is admissible to declare the
characters
See—sec. 1870,
or subds.
the meaning
9, 10, and of
notes.
the language.
§ 1864. When the terms of an agreement have been
intended in a different sense by the different parties to it,
that sense is to prevail against either party in which he
supposed the other understood it, and when different con
structions of a provision are otherwise equally proper, tnat
to be taken
which iswas
mostmade.
favorable to the party in
■whoseis favor
the provision
Compare—Civil Code, sees. 1640, 1654.
§ 1865. A written notice, as well as every other writ
ing, is to be construed according to the ordinary accepta
tion of its terms. Thus, a notice to the drawers or indorsers of a bill of exchange or promissory note, that it
has been protested for want of acceptance or payment,
must be held to import that the same has been duly pre
sented for acceptance or payment, and the same refused,
and that the holder looks for payment to the person to
whom
Ordinary
theacceptation—see
notice is given.sec. 1861: compare Civil Code, sec. 1644:
notice of dishonor, Civil Code, sec. 3143; 4 Cal. 213: 8 Cal.4>26; MCal.
160; 24 CaL 379.
§ 1866. When a statute or instrument is equally sus
ceptible of two interpretations, one in favor of natural
right and the other against it, the former is to be adopted.
§ 1867. None but a material allegation need be proved.
Material allegation — defined, sec. 463: in complaint, see Code,
Pleading, sec. 426n: 48 Cal. 439 : not controverted, sec. 462.
§ 1868. Evidence must correspond with the substance
of the material allegations, and be relevant to the question
in dispute. Collateral questions must thereforee be avoid
ed. It is, however, within the discretion of the court to
permit inquiry into a collateral fact, when such fact is di
rectly connected with the question in dispute, and is es
sential to its proper determination, or when it affects the
credibility of a witness.
Correspondence between evidence and allegations—28 Cal. 67:
variance, sees. 469-471 : tender cannot be proven unless pleaded, 53
Cal. 597.
Relevant evidence—required, 4 Cal. 229: 21 Cal. 23: 27 Cal. 422 ; 30
Cal. 252;
Smith
v. East Branch
M. Co.. Feb.sec.
12th,187018*0,4
Fac.
C. L.48Cal.
J. 562434,845;
: admissible
evidence
under requirement,
and
notes: objection or exception to evidence, sec. 64tin.
Collateral fact—connecting, sec. 1870 and notes; 61 Cal. 75; Bancroft
v. Hcrlnghl, Feb. 4th, 1880,4 Pac. C. L. J. 536: entirely irrelevant, 40
Cal. 374; 52 Cal. 225, 605; 53 Cal. 735: credibility of witness, sees. 1847
and 1870, subd. 16.
§ 1869. Each party must prove his own affirmative al
legations. Evidence need not be given in support of a neg
ative allegation, except when such negative allegation is
an essential part of the statement of the right or title on
which the cause of action or defense is founded, nor even
in such case when the allegation is a denial of the existence
of a document, the custody o£ which belongs to the op
posite party.
Affirmative allegations—admitted facts need not be proved, 25 Cal.
225;
Cal. 306;unproveu,
41 Cal. 127, disregarded,
133; 42 Cal. 225;52 47Cal.
Cal.9920,
249: affirmative
ter ill33answer
: burden
of proof,mat
sec
1081; 30 Cal. 662; 31Cal. 104; 53 Cal. 3 .5; Dougherty r. Harrison, Marco
lith, 18<0, 5Pac. C. L. J. 81: submission on pleadings, 52 Cal. 09: particu
lar allegations to be proven, 31 Cal. 218; 5ICal.2l7; 53CaL713; Grime.
Barney, Juno 30th, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 590.
Negative allegation—some evidence required, 26 Cal. 611: denials,
sec. 4J7n.
SUFFICIENCY OF EVIDENCE IN VAEIOTJS OASES.
Breach of promise of marriage—Hanks t>. Naglee, Dec. 26th, 1879,
4 Pac. C. L. J. 456; Boingneres t>. Boulon, Feb. 7th, 1880, 4 Pac. C. L. J.
528.
Carrier—notice
rules
Cal.169.
537. Contract—52
Certificate of
sec. 1925
and notes; 48ofCal.
126;of,5022Cal.
Cat.purchase591. Conversion-'23 Cal. 349; 52 Cal. 686; 53 Cal. 20, 21, 261, 399. Corporation:i211)5,260.
Cal. llil;Divorce-53
52 Cal. 192;Cal.
53 Cal.
346.
Damages-50
Cal.
176,
fto;
51 Cat
26. Ejectment—14 Cal. 465, 609; 15 Cal.
Cal. 2.1, 402: 44 Cal. 2S4.3S6; 4 > Cal. 173. 236; 46 Cal. 258 ; 48 Cal. 434,
49 Cal. 055; 50 Cal. 200, 211 ; 51 Cal. 198, 465; 53 Cal. 362. Forcible entry
and
Cal.required,
285, 349. sec.
Generally—de
grees detainer—48
of evidence,Cal.
sec. 361.
1828 Fraud—50
et sea.', proof
1826: value
and effect of evidence, see. 2061. Malicious prosecution—7 Cal. 257:
8Marriage—sec.
Cal. -ill; 2.1 Cal.1963,
644 ; subd.
44 Cal.30;144;
60
Cal.
206;
61
Cal.
140;
53
47 Cal. 621: breach of promiseCal.
of, 188.
see
that head, supra.
52461;35.
Cal.
81; 53
616.
tions—generally,
Negligence
■ 50 Cal.
18 Money
Cal.
578,136;
581;paid—action
2452Cal.Cal.343;60231: for,
53Cal.Cal.
36 Possessory
Cal.
561;Cal.
47 Cal.
ac632; 48 Cal. 406, 614: 49 Cal. 202; 52 Cal. 89. Power of attorney—53 Cat
321. Tax suits—51 Cal. 298, 580. Trespass-50 Cal. 435, 496.
§ 1870. Iu conformity with the preceding provisions,
evidence
facts :
may he given upon a trial of the following
1. The precise fact in dispute;
2. The act, declaration, or omission of a party, as evi
dence against such party ;
3. An act or declaration of another, in the presence
and within the observation of a party, and his conduct in
relation thereto;
4. The act or declaration, verbal or written, of a de
ceased person in respect to the relationship, birth, mar
riage, or death of any person related by blood or mar
riage to such deceased person ; the act or declaration of a
deceased person done or made against his interest in re
spect to his real property; and also in criminal actions,
the act or declaration of a dying person, made under a
sense of impending death, respecting the cause of his
death;
5. Alter proof of a partnership or agency, the act or dec
laration of a partner or agent of the party, within the
scope of the partnership or agency, and during its exist
ence. The same rule applies to the act or declaration of
a joint owner, joint debtor, or other person jointly inter
ested with the party;
6. After proof of a conspiracy, the act or declaration of
a conspirator against his coconspirator, and relating to
the conspiracy;
7. The act, declaration, or omission forming part of a
transaction, as explained in section eighteen hundred and
lifty;
8. The testimony of a witness deceased, or out of the
jurisdiction, or unable to testify, given in a former action
"between the same parties, relating to the same matter;
9. The opinion of a witness respecting the identity or
handwriting of a person, when he has knowledge of the
person or handwriting ; his opinion on a question of sci
ence, art, or trade, when he is skilled therein;
10. The opinion of a subscribing witness to a writing,
the validity of which is in dispute, respecting the mental
sanity of the signer ; and the opinion of an intimate ac
quaintance respecting the mental sanity of a person, the
reason for the opinion being given ;
11. Common reputation existing previous to the contro
versy, respecting facts of a public or general interest more
than thirty years old, and in cases of pedigree and bound
ary;
12. Usage, to explain the true character of an act, con
tract, or instrument, where such true character is not
otherwise plain; but usage is never admissible, except as
an instrument of interpretation ;
13. Monuments and inscriptions in public places, as evi
dence of common reputation; and entries in family bi
bles, or other family books or charts ; engravings on rings,
family portraits, and the like, as evidence of pedigree;
14. The contents of a writing, when oral evidence there
of is admissible;
15. Any other facts from which the facts in issue are
presumed or are logically inferable ;
16. Such facts as serve to show the credibility of a wit
ness, as explained in section eighteen hundred and fortyseven.
Relevant evidence required—sec. 1868 and notes.
RELEVANT EVIDENCE.
Subd. 1, Precise fact—In dispute, kinds of evidence, sec. 1827 and
notes. Subd. 2, Admissions—account by, 13 Gal. 427 j 18 Cal. 634 ; 34
Cat.; 22Cal.232;
180: 50 Cal. 50Cal.43S:
438: acquiescence,
by, see noteby,to22subd.
3, infra;
13 Gal.
427
acknowledgment,
Cal. 565:
assessment,
by, 35 Cal. 684: compromise, not by offer to, sec. 2078: counsel, by, 6
§ 1875. Courts take judicial notice of the following
facts :
1. The true signification of all English words and
phrases, and of all legal expressions;
2. Whatever is established by law;
3. Public and private official acts of the legislative, ex
ecutive, and judicial departments of this State and of the
United States;
4. The seals of ail the courts of this State and of the
United States;
5. The accession to office and the official signatures and
seals of office of the principal officers of government in
the legislative, executive, and judicial departments of this
State and of the United States;
6. The existence, title, national flag, and seal of every
State or sovereign recognized by the executive power of
the United States;
7. The seals of courts of admiralty and maritime juris
diction, and of notaries public;
8. The laws of nature, the measure of time, and the geo
graphical divisions and political history of the world.
In all these cases the court may resort for its aid to ap
propriate bboks or documents of reference.
JUDICIAL NOTICE.
Subd. 1, Meaning of English words and phrases, etc.—41 Cal. 477;
49 Cal. 598; 51 Cal. 429. Subd. 2, Established by law-whatever Is,
Statutes, 30 Cal. 253: District Courts, before amdts. 1880, 17 Cal. 371: 37
Cal.2«; 42Cal.400; 48 Cal. 178. Subd. 3, Official acts of governmental
departments—Congressional, 27 Cal. 167 : of State Legislature, 43 Cal.
560; 52 Cal. 171: judicial department, before Code, 31 Cal. 229: pri
vate acts, before Code, 32 Cal. 447 : removal of county seat, 47 Cal. 488.
Subd. 4, Seals—patent, 14 Cal. 467. Subd. 5, Chief governmental offi
cers—incumbency,
signatures,
seals: before Code,
15 Cal.1 53;
Subd. 8, Laws of nature,
etc.—geographical
divisions,
Cal.32Cal.l06.
9; 5 Cal.
140: 39 Cal. 40: streets of city, Whiting t>. Quackenbush, March 13th,
1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 153. Books and documents—as aid see sec. 1936.
§ 1878. A witness is a person whose declaration under
oath is received as evidence for any purpose, whether such
declaration be made on oral examination or by deposition
or affidavit.
Oral
Compare—sec.
examination—sec.
2002. 1846: general rules of, sec. 2042 et seq.
Deposition—sees. 2019-2038.
Affidavit—sees. 2009-2015.
§ 1879. All persons, without exception, otherwise than
is specified in the next two sections, who, having organs
o£ sense, can perceive, and, perceiving, can make known
their perceptions to others, may be witnesses. Therefore,
neither parties nor other persons who have an interest in
the event of an action or proceeding are excluded; nor
those who have been convicted of crime; nor persons on
account of their opinions on matters of religious belief;
although, in every case, the credibility of the witness
may be drawn in question, as provided in section eighteen
hundred and forty-seven.
Competency of witnesses—no exclusion for religious belief, 17 CaL
612: nor for nationality or color, 45 Cal. 57: attorney as witness, 49 Cal.
382.
Persons incompetent—to be witnesses, sec. 1880.
§ 1880. The following persons cannot be witnesses :
1. Those who are of unsound mind at the time of their
production for examination ;
2. Children under ten years of age, who appear incapa
ble of receiving just impressions of the facts respecting
which they are examined, or of relating them truly;
3. Parties or assignors of parties to an action c*r pro
ceeding, or persons in whose behalf an action or proceed
ing is prosecuted, against an executor or administrator,
upon a claim or demand against the estate of a deceased
person, as to any matter of fact occurring before the
death of such deceased person. [In effect April 16th,
1880.]
Subdivision 2. Children—10 Cal. 66.
Subdivision 3. Parties to action against executor, etc.—claim,
for family allowance, inapplicable to, 52 Cal. 568: applies to nominal
Sartles, 50 Cal. 420: party may testify in behalf of estate, 51 Cal. 618; 52
al. 336 : depositions, when not admissible, 51 Cal. 101 : assignors of par
ties, included by amdt. 1880; as to any matter, etc., before death, etc.,
added by amdt. 1880.
§ 1881. There are particular relations in which it is the
policy of the law to encourage confidence and to preserve
it inviolate; thereforee, a person cannot be examined as a
witness in the following cases :
1. Awithout
husband
examined
for or
or against
against her
his
■wife,
her cannot
consent;benor
a wife for
husband, without his consent; nor can either, during the
marriage or afterward, be, without the consent of the
other, examined as to any communication made by one to
the other during the marriage; but this exception does
not apply to a civil action or proceeding by one against
the other, nor to a criminal action or proceeding for a
crime committed by one against the other.
2. An attorney cannot, without the consent of his client,
be examined as to any communication made by the client
to him, or his advice given thereon in the course of pro
fessional employment.
3. A clergyman or priest cannot, without the consent of
the person making the confession, be examined as to any
confession made to him in his professional character in
the course of discipline enjoined by the church to which
he belongs.
4. A licensed physician or surgeon cannot, without the
consent of his patient, be examined in a civil action as to
any information acquired in attending the patient which
was necessary to enable him to prescribe or act for the
patient.
5. A public officer cannot be examined as to communi
cations made to him in official confidence, when the pub
lic interests would suffer by the disclosure.
Subdivision 1. Husband—when may be witness against wife, 53
Cal. 425.
Subdivision 2. Attorney—privileged communications, 5 Cal. 450;
40 Cal. 284 : not privileged, 23 Cal. 331 ; 29 Cal. 48 ; 36 Cal. 489 : strict con
struction, 36 Cal. 489.
Subdivision 3. Confession to priest—privileged provision inap
plicable, Estate of Toomes, April 7th, 1880, 5 Fac. C. L. J. 286.
Code Civ. Pboo.—SO.
§ 1882 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the State of
California is hereby repealed. Lin effect February 28th,
1876.]
§ 1883. The judge himself or any juror may be called
as a witness by either party; but in such case it is in the
discretion of the court or judge to order the trial to be
postponed or suspended, and to take place before another
judge
Juror—48
Justice—2
or jury.
Cal.
Cal.90.360.
§ 1884. When a witness doesnot understand and speak
the English language, an interpreter must be sworn to in
terpret for him. Any person, a resident of the proper
county, may be summoned by any court or judge to ap
pear before such court or judge to act as interpreter in
any action or proceeding. The summons must be served
and returned in like manner as a subpoena. Any person
so summoned, who fails to attend at the time and place
named in the summons, is guilty of a contempt.
Interpreter—short-hand notes of testimony taken through, People rLee Fat, April 8th, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 282.
Subpoena—sec. 1985 et seq.
Contempt—sees. 1209, 1219.
§ 1887. "Writings are of two kinds:
1. Public; and,
2. Private.
§ 1888. Public writings are :
1. The written acts or records of the acts of the sover
eign authority, of official bodies and tribunals, and of pub
lic officers, legislative, judicial, and executive, whether
of this State, of the United States, of a sister State, or of
a foreign
2. Public
country;
records, kept in this State, of private writings.
Subdivision 2. Certified copy from records—as primary evi
dence, 49 Cal. 210; 52 Cal. 171.
§ 1889. All other-writings are private.
-§ 1892. Every citizen has a right to inspect and take a
copy of any public writing of this State, except as other
wise expressly provided by statute.
Public records, etc., open to inspection—Political Code, sec. 1032.
officer having the custody of a
public writing, which a citizen has a right to inspect, is
bound to give him, on demand, a certified copy of it, on
payment of the legal fees therefore, and such copy is ad
missible as evidence in like cases and with like effect as
the original writing. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Certified copy—from records, as primary evidence, 49 Cal. 210.
§1. 1894.
Laws; Public writings are divided into four classes :
2. Judicial records ;
3. Other official documents;
4. Public records, kept in this State, of private-writings.
§ 1895. Laws, whether organic or ordinary, are either
written or unwritten.
§ 1896. A written law is that which is promulgated in
writing, and of which a record is in existence.
§ 1897. The organic law is the constitution of govern
ment, and is altogether written. Other written laws are
denominated statutes. The written law of this State ig
thereforee contained in its Constitution and statutes, and
in the Constitution and statutes of the United States.
§ 1898. Statutes are public or private. A private
statute is one which concerns only certain designated in
dividuals, and affects only their private rights. All other statutes are public, in which are included statutes creat
ing or affecting corporations.
§ 1899. Unwritten Jaw is the law not promulgated and
recorded, as mentioned in section eighteen hundred and
ninety-six, but which is, nevertheless, observed and ad
ministered in the courts of the country. It has no cer
tain repository, but is collected from the reports of the
decisions of the courts and the treatises of learned men.
§ 1900. Books printed or published under the au
thority of a sister State or foreign country, and purport
ing to contain the statutes, code, or other written law of
such State or country, or proved^ to be commonly ad
mitted in the tribunals of such State or country, as evi
dence of the written law thereof, are admissible in this
State as evidence of such law.
Books—historical, etc., sec. 1936: resort to, sec. 1875: authority of,
sec.
Sister
1963, State—scope
subd. 35, 36. of expression, sec. 1924.
§ 1901. A copy of the written law or other public
writing of any State or country, attested by.the certificate
of the officer having charge of the original, under the
public seal of the State or country, is admissible as evi
dence
Certificate—requisites
of such law orof,writing.
sec. 1923. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
§ 1902. The oral testimony of witnesses, skilled
therein, is admissible as evidence of the unwritten law
of a sister State or foreign country, as are also printed
and published books of reports of decisions of the courts
of such State or country, or proved to be commonly ad
mitted in such courts.
See—sec. 1900n.
§ 1903. The recitals in a public statute are conclusive
evidence of the facts recited, for the purpose of carrying
it into effect, but no further. The recitals in a private'
statute are conclusive evidence between parties who
claim under its provisions, but no further.
Recitals—in written instrument, sec. 1962, subd. 2.
§ 1904. A judicial record is the record or official entry
of the proceedings in a court of justice, or of the official
act of a judicial officer, in an action or special proceeding.
Judicial records—judgment roll, sec. 670 : papers in insolvency, 18
Cal. 41 : execution book as evidence, sec. 683 : swamp land papers, cer
tified copies admissible, 52 Cal. 171.
§ 1905. A judicial record of this State, or of the
United States, may be proved by the production of the
original, or by a copy thereof certified by the clerk or
other person having the legal custody thereof. That of a
sister State may be proved by the attestation of the
clerk, and the seal of the court annexed, if there be a
clerk and seal, together with a certificate of the chief
judge or presiding magistrate, that the attestation is in
due form.
Judicial record of this State, etc.—need of seal, sec. 153, sultd. 3
appointment of executor, etc., sec. 1429: judgment roll, when needs
no exemplication, 47 Cal. 21.
Judicial record of a sister State—U. S. Const, art. 4, sec. 1 : 1 Cat
428;Certificate—sec.
7Cal.247: 12 Cal.
1923.181: of United States as to lands, 18 Cal. 416.
§ 1906. A judicial record of a foreign country may be
proved by the attestation of the clerk< with the seal of the
court annexed, if there be a clerk and seal, or of the legal
keeper of the record, with the seal of his office annexed,
if there be a seal, together with a certificate of the chief
judge, or presiding magistrate, that the person making the
attestation is the clerk of the court, or the legal keeper of
the record, and, in either case, that the signature of such
person is genuine, and that the attestation is in due form.
The signature of the chief judge or presiding magistrate
must be authenticated by the certificate of the minister or
embassador, or a consul, vice-consul, or consular agent of
the United States in such foreign country. [In effect July
1st, 1874.]
Foreign judgment—39 Cal. 646.
Certificate—sec. 1923.
§ 1907. A copy of the judicial record of a foreign
country is also admissible in evidence, upon proof—
1. That the copy offered has been compared by the wit
ness with the original, and is an exact transcript of the
whole of it ;
2. That such original was in the custody of the clerk of
the court, or other legal keeper of the same; and,
3. That the copy is duly attested by a seal which is
proved to be the seal of the court where the record re
mains, if it be the record of a court ; or if there be no such
seal, or if it be not a record of a court, by the signature
of the legal keeper of the original.
§ 1908. The effect of a judgment or final order in an
action or special proceeding before a court or judge of this
State, or of the United States, having jurisdiction to pro
nounce the judgment or order, is as follows:
1. In case of a judgment or order against a specific
thing, or in respect to the prohate of a will, or the admin
istration of the estate of a decedent, or in respect to the
personal, political, or legal condition or relation of a par
ticular person, the judgment or order is conclusive upon
the title to the thing, the will, or administration, or the con
dition or relation of the person;
2. In other cases, the judgment or order is, in respect to
the matter directly adjudged, conclusive between the
parties and their successors in interest by title subsequent
to the commencement of the action or special proceeding,
litigating for the same thing under the same title and in
the same capacity, provided they have notice actual or
constructive, of the pendency of the action or proceeding.
[In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Judgment—or order:
ESTOPPEL
Finality, BY
defined,
RECORD.
33 Cal. 474: required, 24
Cat. 466 ; 37 Cal. 236: where action dismissed, 21 Cal. 164; where appeal
taken, 13 Cal. 634 : what not res mljudicata, 44 Cal. 635. Estoppel, gen
erally,

368:30must
be pleaded
proven,
sec.176;
1963,36 subd.
6; 2337 Cal.
Cal.
630; 36 Cal. 626; 47 Cal. 21 : waiver of, 42 Cal. 619 : records of Board of
Supervisors, 47 Cal. 47: in equity suit, 39 Cal. 482; 48 Cal. 386; dismissal
by consent Is bar, 47 Cal. 542.
Jurisdiction—generally, see-sec. 33n, sec. 1917: Impeaching judicial
record for want of, sec. 1916 : presumed on collateral attack, sec. 
233.
Cal. 623;
615; 45Llnehan
Hathaway,
March
5Cal.
Pac.286C.; 23L.Cal.
J. 90;404but
see
53
Cal.
035
:
otherwise
of
inferior
Courts,
12
; 34 Cal. 326 ; but see 52 Cal. 171.
Subdivision 1. Probate or administration—collateral attack on
proceedings,
4 Cal. of
313;proceedings,
18 Cal. 480, 503;
46: conclusiveness
sec. 201333Cal.
; 6 273;
Cal. 28
669;Cal.18 182;
Cal. 33430Cal.
: 23

; 40Mexican
Cal. 282;grant,
47 Cal.
49 Cal.
Cal.
land396;department
and461;52 Cal.
424 :525;
Mex51

325,473:
partner,
against, 49 Cal.
124: quieting
title,23
replevin
In, 10 Cal.520:
rinarianriglits.
determining,
53 Cal.
469:Cal.409:
subsequent
title
 trespass by partners, 14
Cal. 223: trespass quart clausum /regit, 43 Cal. 65: where lis pendens
filed, 23 Cal. 335; 28 Cal. 194.
Subdivision 2. Matter directly adjudged—extent of estoppel on,
definition, sec. 1911: demurrer, judgment on, 5 Cal. 430; 47 Cal. 32: gen

§ 1909-12

writings.

596
38 Cal. 647;where,
merits27uot
on,25 Cal.to 272set; 43aside
Cal. 597;
45 CaL
12N:
misjoinder,
Cal.passed
287: motion
judgment,
when no bar, 45 Cal. 017: questions Involved, determine estoppel. 43
Cal.
: recital in judgment,
44 Cal.
: same
cause186;of DeLa
action,Gnerra
42 Cal.
37J: 311
Laddu.Durkin,
March 18th,
18S0, 623
5Pac.
C. L.J.
v. Newhall, May 15th, 1880, S Pac. C. I.. J. 413 : serious offense, effect of
conviction of, 10 Cal. 391: stipulation, where, 43 Cal. 485; 45 Cal. 405:
tenant, judgment against, when landlord not barred by, Altschul v.
Doyle,

294. Parties and privies—sec. 1910: alone estopped, 9 Cal. 130; 14 Cal.
207;
23 Cal. 354: 30 502;
Cal. 34
220:Cal.
40 Cal. 249:Cal.application
cases,
12Cal.Cal.
; 44478;
Cal.toAltschul
46;particular
45 Cal.
439;
48

r. Doyle,
etc., March 17th, 1880, 6 Pac. C. L. J. 136. Estoppels in various casescounterclaim barred by not pleading, sec. 439: fictitious name, where
used, 50 Cal. 205, 585 : partition, conclusiveness of judgment in, sec. 766 :
53ii. Splivalo,
Cal. 362: Probate
pee Judgment,
noto
supra,4th,and1880,
Noe5
Feb. 26th,Court
1830;decree,
Reynolds
v. Brumagim,
March
Pac. C. L. J. 115: sureties, sec. 1912.
§ 1909. Other judicial orders of a court or judge of
this State, or of the United States, create a disputable
presumption, according to the matter directly determined,
between the same parties and their representatives and
successors in interest by title subsequentto the commence
ment of the action or special proceeding, litigating for the
same
Parties
Disputable
thing
andpresumptions—seo
under
privies—see
the same
sec. 1908,
title
sec.subd.
1963
and
2n,
andinsec.
notes.
the1910.
same capacity.
§ 1910. The parties are deemed to be the same when
those between whom the evidence is offered were on op
posite sides in the former case, and a judgment or other
determination could in that case have been made between
them alone, though other parties were joined with both
or either.
Other parties—49 Cal. 213.
fl911. That only is deemed to have been adjudged in
ormer judgment which appears upon its face to have
been so adjudged, or whioh was actually and necessarily
included therein or necessary thereto.
See matter directly adjudged—note to sec. 1908, subd. 2.
§ 1912. Whenever, pursuant to the last four sections, a
party is bound by a record, and such party stands in the
relation of a surety for another, the latter is also bound
from the time that he has notice of the action or proceed
ing, and an opportunity at the surety's request to join in
the defense.
Suit by surety against principal—16 Cal. 69.
§ 1913. The effect of a judicial record of a sister State
is the same in this State as in the State where it was made,
except that it can only be enforced here by an action or
special proceeding, and except, also, that the authority of
a guardian or committee, or of an executor or administra
tor, does not extend beyond the jurisdiction of the gov
ernment under which he was invested with his authority.
Judgment obtained in another State—by publication of summons,
8 Cal. 449.
§ 1914. The effect of the judicial record of a court of
admiralty of a foreign country is the same as if it were
the record of a court of admiralty of the United States.
§ 1915. The effect of the judgment of any other tribu
nal of a foreign country having jurisdiction to prono.unce
the judgment, is as follows:
1. In case of a judgment against a specific thing, the
judgment is conclusive upon the title to the thing;
2. In case of a judgment against a person, the judgment
is presumptive evidence of a right as between the parties
and their successors in interest -by a subsequent title, and
' can only be repelled by evidence of a want of jurisdic
tion, want of notice to the party, collusion, fraud, or clear
mistake of law or fact.
§ 1916. Any judicial record may be impeached by ev
idence of a want of jurisdiction in the court or judicial
officer, of collusion between the parties, or of fraud in the
party offering the record, in respect to the proceedings.
Judicial record, impeaching—not for error, 32 Cal. 176: by infant,
31 Cal. 273: by showing alteration, 50 Cal. 448: by collateral attack, 49
Cal. 208: for want of jurisdiction, see sec. 1917 and note; 7 Cal. 54, 443;
8 Cal. 562; 27 Cal. 300; 30 Cal. 439.
§ 1917. The jurisdiction sufficient to sustain a record
is jurisdiction over the cause, over the parties, and over
the thing, when a specific thing is the subject of the judg
ment.
Juiisdiction—generally, see note to sec. 33: also sec. 1908 and note:
of defendant sued by fictitious name, 50 Cal. 203: of court not of
record, on collateral attack, 52 Cal. 171.
§ 1918. Other official documents may be proved as fol
lows :
1. Acts of the executive of this State, by the records of
the State Department of the State; and of the United
States, by the records of the State Department of the
United States, certified by the heads of those departments
respectively. They may also be proved by public documents printed by the order of the Legislature or Con
gress, or either house thereof;
2. The proceedings of the Legislature of this State or of
Congress, by the journals of those bodies respectively, or
either house thereof, or by published statutes or resolu
tions, or by copies certified: by the clerk or printed, by
their order ;
3. The acts of the executive, or the proceedings of the
legislature of a sister State, in the same manner;
4. The acts of the executive, or the proceedings of the
legislature of a foreign country, by journals published
by their authority, or commonly received in that country
as such, or by a copy certified under the seal of the
country or sovereign, or by a recognition thereof in some
public act of the executive of the United States;
5. Acts of a municipal corporation of this State, or of
a board or department thereof, by a copy, certified by the
legal keeper thereof, or by a printed book published by
the authority of such corporation ;
6. Documents of any other class in this State, by the
original, or by a copy, certified by the legal keeper there
of;
7. Documents of any other class in a sister State, by
the original, or by a copy, certified by the legal keeper
thereof, together with the certificate of the secretary of
state, judge of the supreme, superior, or county court, or
mayor of a city of such State, that the copy is duly certi
fied by the officer having the legal custody of the orig
inal;
8. Documents of any other class in a foreign country,
by the original, or by a copy, certified by the legal keeper
thereof, with a certificate, under seal of the country or
sovereign, that the document is a valid and subsisting
document of such country, and that the copy is duly cer
tified by the officer having the legal custody of the origi
nal;
9. Documents in the departments of the United States
government, by the certificate of the legal custddian
thereof. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.
Subdivision 5. Municipal corporation—48 Cal. 143.
Subdivision 6. Certified copy—of documents in this State: al
calde grants, 21 Cal. 202: certificate, sec. 1923: street assessments, certiflcate to record. 44 Cal. 213 : swamp land papers, 52 Cal. 171.
Subdivision 7. Documents in another State — scope of terra
" sister State." sec. 1924 : lu land department of United States, 14
§ 1919. A public record of a private writing may be
proved by the original record, or by a copy thereof, certi
fied by the legal keeper of the record.
Public record of a private writing — certified copy of: alcalde
grants, 31 Cal. 500: deed, 49 Cal. 212: expediente of Mexican grant, 51
Cal. 590: patent, 50 Cal. 346: power of attorney,51 Cal. 198: railroads,
articles of consolidation, 50 Cal. 348.
§ 1920. Entries in public or other official books or
records, made in the performance of his duty by a public
officer of this State, or by another person in the perform
ance of a duty specially enjoined by law, are prima facie
evidence of the facts stated therein. [In effect July 1st,
1874.]
Official documents—proof of, sec. 1918.
Entries in performance of public duty—6 Cal. 674 ; 31 Cal. 140, 500;
35 Cal. 521 : by officer or board of officers, etc., sec. 1926.
§ 1921. A transcript from the record or docket of a
justice of the peace or a sister State, of a judgment ren
dered by him, of the proceedings in the action before the
judgment, of the execution and return, if any, subscribed
by the justice and verified in the manner prescribed in
the next section, is admissible evidence of the facts stated
therein.
§ 1922. There must be attached to the transcript a cer
tificate of the justice that the transcript is in all respects
correct, and that he had jurisdiction of the action, and
also a further certificate of the clerk or prothonotary of
the county in which the justice resided at the time of
rendering the judgment, under the seal of the county, or
the seal of the court of common pleas or county court
thereof, certifying that the person subscribing the tran
script was, at the date of the judgment, a justice of the
peace in the county, and that the signature is genuine.
Such judgment, proceedings, and jurisdiction may also
be proved by the justice himself, on the production of his
docket, or by a copy of the judgment, and his oral exam
ination as a witness.
§ 1923. Whenever a copy of a writing is certified for
the purpose of evidence, the certificate must state in sub
stance that the copy is a correct copy of the original, or of
a specified part thereof, as the case may be. The certifi
cate, must be under the official seal of the certifying
officer, if there be any, or if he be the clerk of a court
haviDg a seal, under the seal of such court. [In effect
July 1st, 1874.
§ 1924.
applicable
The provisions
to the public
of thewritings
preceding
of sections
a sister of
State
thi
are equally applicable to the public writings of the TJnitet
States or a Territory of the United States. [In effect Juh
1st, 1874.]
§ 1925. A certificate of purchase or of location of an;
lands in this .State, issued or made in pursuance of am
law of the United States or of this State, is primary evi
dence that the holder or assignee of such certificate is the
owner of the land described therein; but this evidence
" may be overcome by proof that at the time of the loca
tion, or time of filing a pre-emption claim on which the
certificate may have been issued, the land was in the ad
verse possession of the adverse party, or those under
whom he claims, or that the adverse party is holding the
land for mining purposes.
Certificate of purchase—adverse possession, defendant claiming, 51
Cal. 412: annulment of, 50 Cal.84; 51 Cal.128: effect of, 51 CaL 41: a}
Cal. 521: evidence against, 60 Cal.211: evidence as, 48 Cal. 26: insuffi
cient
proof of title,
when,junior,
51 Cal.53534:Cal.Judgment
on, whenPollard
no bar,e.51Put
Cal.
505: mortgagee,
where
649: premature,
nam, April 23rd, 18S0, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 423: prima facie title by, 50 Cal.
195; 52 Cal. 244: proof of existence, and of preliminary steps, 50 Cal.
169: requisites, 61 Cal.128: scope of, 52 Cal. 521: suspension of, 47 Cal.
461; 52 Cal. 521.
§ 1926. An entry made by an officer, or board of offi
cers, or under the direction and in the presence of either,
in the course of official duty, is prima facie evidence of
the
Board—of
facts stated
commissioners,
in suchreport
entry.as evidence,
[In effect
49 Cal.
July229.1st, 1874.]
ARTICLE m.
Peivatb Whitings.
5 1929. Private writings classified.
§ 1930. Seal defined.
S 1931. Manner of making it.
§5 1932.
of a ofseal.
1933. Effect
Execution
an instrument defined.
8 1934. Compromise of a debt without seal good.
§8 1935.
Subscribing
witness
defined.
1936. Books, maps, etc., how
far evidence.
8 1937. Original writing to be produced or accounted for.
8§ 1938.
When
In
possession
of
adverse
party,
to be given.
1939. Writings called for and inspected
maynotice
be withheld.
§ 1940. Where there is a subscribing witness, the proof.
8 1941. Other witnesses may also testify.
§8 1943.
1942. When
evidence
of execution not necessary.
Evidence
of handwriting.
S 1944. Allowed by comparison.
it8 1945.
Same. of decedent's evidence In specified cases.
1946. Entries
§ 1929. Private writings are either—
1. Sealed; or,
2. Unsealed.
No distinction—between sealed and unsealed writings, sec. 1932.
§ 1930. A seal is a particular sign, made to attest in
the most formal manner, the execution of an instrument.
Seal generally—sec. 14 and notes: requisite, sec. 1931.
§ 1931. A publio seal in this State is a stamp or im
pression made by a public officer with an instrument pro
vided by law, to attest the execution of an official or pub
lic document, upon the paper, or upon any substance at
tached to the paper, which is capable of receiving a visible
impression. A private seal may be made in the same
manner by any instrument, or it may be made by the
scroll of a pen, or by writing the word "seal" against
the signature of the writer. A scroll or other sign, made
in a sister State or foreign country, and there recognized
as a seal, must be so regarded in this State. [In effect
July 1st, 1874.]
Scope of word "seal"—sec. 14.
Impression of seal—Civil Code, sec. 1638; 5 Cal. 220, 315.
Seal of corporation—22 Cal. 156; 52 Cal. 192.
Seals of courts—sees. 147-153.
§ 1932. There shall be no difference hereafter, in this
State, between sealed and unsealed writings. A writing
under seal may thereforee be changed, or altogether dis
charged, by a writing not under seal. [In effect July 1st,
1874.]
Corresponding provision—see Civil Code, sec. 1629.
Before distinction abolished—13 Cal. 220, 510; 15 Cal. 363: 16 Cal.
165 : impeaching consideration of sealed instrument, 6 Cal. 134, 664; 10
Cal. 461 ; 12 Cal. 286 ; 13 Cal. 30 ; 14 Cal. 19.
Agreement of composition—requires no seal, sec. 1934.
Under Mexican system—no distinction, sec. 14».
§ 1933. The execution of an instrument is the sub
scribing and delivering it, with or without affixing a seal.
Execution
instrument—subscribing,
28 Cal.
157;50229; Cal.
352 573:
; 49
Cal. 192; 51 Cal.of 404,473:
delivering, 5 Cal. 319;
13 Cal.
51 Cal.
effect of seal, before distinction abolished, 16 Cal. 594.
§ 1934. An agreement in writing without a seal, for
the compromise or settlement* of a debt, is as obligatory
as if a seal were affixed.
Cods Civ. Pboc—51.

§ 1935. A subscribing witness is one who sees a writing
executed or hears it acknowledged, and at the request ot
the party thereupon signs his name as a witness.
§ 1936. Historical works, books of science or art, and
published maps or charts, when made by persons indif
ferent between the parties, are prima facie evidence of
facts of general notoriety and interest. [In effect July
1st, 1874.J
Books—as aid to court.sec. 1875: as evidence, sec. 1900: presumptions
as to, sec. 1963, subds. 35, 36.
§ 1937. The original writing must be produced and
proved, except as provided in sections eighteen hundred
and fifty-live and nineteen hundred and nineteen. If it
has been lost, proof of the loss must first be made before
evidence can be given of its contents. Upon such proof
being made, together with proof of the due execution of
the writing, its contents may be proved by a copy, or by
a recital of its contents in some authentic document, or by
the recollection of a witness, as provided in section
eighteen hundred and fifty-five.
Evidence of contents of instrument—lost deed, 49 Cal. 263: proof
before, 3 Cal. 427; 49 Cal. 653.
§ 1938. If the writing be in the custody of the adverse
party, he must first have reasonable notice to produce it.
If he then fail to do so, the contents of the writing may
be proved as in case of its loss. But the notice to pro
duce it is not necessary where the writing is itself a
notice, or where it has been wrongfully obtained or -with
held
Document
by theinadverse
possession—of
party. opponent, sec. 1855, subd. 2 and note.
§ 1939. Though a writing called for by one party is
produced by the other, and is thereupon inspected by the
party calling for it, he is not obliged to produce it as evi
dence in the case.
§ 1940. Any writing may be proved either:
1. By any one who saw the writing executed ; or,
2. By evidence of the genuineness of the handwriting of
the maker; or,
3. By a subscribing witness. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Proof of execution of writing—by admission, sec. 1942.
Subdivision 2. Proof of handwriting—sees. 1943.
Subdivision 3. Subscribing witness—sec. 1935; 3 Cal. 427; 12 Cal.
308,426; 14 Cal. 18; 26 Cal. 393; 27 Cal. 238: other evidence of execution,
when admissible, sec. 1941 : on contest of will, sec. 1315.
§ 1941. If the subscribing witness denies or does not
recollect tbe execution of the writing, its execution may
still be proved by other evidence.
§ 1942. Where, however, evidence is given that the
party against whom the writing is offered has at any time
admitted its execution, no other evidence of the execution
need be given, when the instrument is one mentioned in
section nineteen hundred and forty-five, or one produced
from the custody of the adverse party, and has been acted
upon by him as genuine.
§ 1943. The handwriting of a person may be proved
by any one who believes it to be his, and who has seen
him write, or has seen writings purporting to be his, upon
which he has acted or been charged, and who has thus
acquired a knowledge of his handwriting.
Comparison of handwriting—47 Cal. 294 : experts, 50 Cal. 462.
§ 1944. Evidence respecting the handwriting may also
be given by a comparison, made by the witness or the
jury, with writings admitted or treated as genuine by the
party against whom the evidence is offered, or proved to
be genuine to the satisfaction of the judge. [In effect
July 1st, 1874.]
§ 1945. Where a writing is more than thirty years old,
the comparisons may be made with writings purporting to
be genuine, and generally respected and acted upon as
such,
Presumption—that
by persons having
ancient writing
an interest
is genuine,
in knowing
sec. 1963, subd.
the 34.
fact.
§ 1946. The entries and other writings of a decedent,
made at or near the time of the transaction, and in a posi
tion to know the facts stated therein, may be read as
primafacie evidence of the facts stated therein, in the fol
lowing cases :
1. When the entry was made against the interest of the
person making it ;
2. When it was made in a professional capacity, and in
the ordinary course of professional conduct ;
3. When it was made in the performance of a duty
specially enjoined by law. [In effect July 1st, 1874. ]
Entriesthem,
in books—repeated,
sec. 141947Cal.
: as573;
evidence
making
2 Cal. 172: 7 Cal. 186:
17 Cal.In favor
58, 466:of party
of al
leged partnership, 23 Cal. 511: 49 Cal. 105: where alteration, sec. 1982:
17 Cal. 324.
§ 1947. When an entry is repeated in the regular
course of business, one being copied from another at or
near the time of the transaction, all the entries are
equally regarded as originals.
Entry copied—from slate, 14 CaL 573.
§ 1948. Every private writing, except last 'wills and
testaments, may be acknowledged or proved and certified
in the manner provided for the acknowledgment of proof
of conveyances of real property, and the certificate ofsnch
acknowledgment or proof is prima facie evidence of the
execution of'the writing in the same manner as if it were
a conveyance of real property. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Conveyance of real property—as evidence, sec. 1951.
§ 1950. The record of a conveyance of real property,
or any other record, a transcript of which is admissible in
evidence, must not be removed from the office where it is
kept, except upon the order of a court, in cases where the
inspection of the record is shown to be essential to the
just determination of the cause or proceeding pending, or
where the court is held in the same building with such
office. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
§ 1951. Every instrument conveying or affecting real
property, acknowledged, or proved ana certified, as pro
vided in the Civil Code, may, together with the certificate
of acknowledgment or proof, be read in evidence, in an
action or proceeding, without further proof; and a cer
tified copy of the record of such conveyance or instru
ment thus acknowledged or proved may also be read in
evidence, with the like effect as the original, on proof, by
affidavit, or otherwise, that the original is not in the pos
session or under the control of the party producing the
certified copy. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Certified copies of conveyances—when admissible, 25 Cal. 129; 27
§ 1954. Whenever an object, cognizable by the senses,
has such a relation to the fact in dispute as to afford rea
sonable grounds of belief respecting it, or to make an item
in the sum of the evidence, such object may be exhibited
to the jury, or its existence, situation, or character may
be proved by witnesses. The admission of such evidence
must be regulated by the sound discretion of the court.
Material objects—blood-spots provable by witnesses, 49 Cal. 485.
§ 1957. Indirect evidence is of two kinds :
1. Inferences; and,
2. Presumptions.
§ 1958. An inference is a deduction which the reason
of the jury makes from the facts proved, without an ex
press direction of law to that effect.
§ 1959. A presumption is a deduction which the law
expressly directs to be made from particular facts.
§ 1960. An inference must be founded—
1. On a fact legally proved ; and,
2. On such a deduction from that fact as is warranted
by a consideration of the usual propensities or passions of
men, the particular propensities or passions of the person
whose act is in question, the course of business, or the
course of nature.
§ 1961. A presumption (unless declared by law to be
conclusive) may be controverted by other evidence, direct
or indirect ; but unless so controverted, the jury are bound
to find according to the presumption.
§ 1962. The following presumptions, and no others, are
deemed conclusive :
1. A malicious and guilty intent, from the deliberate
commission of an unlawful act, for the purpose of injur
ing another.
2. The truth of the facts recited, from the recital in a
written instrument between the parties thereto, or their
successors in interest by a subsequent title ; but this rule
does not apply to the recital of a consideration.
3. Whenever a party has, by his own declaration, act,
or omission, intentionally and deliberately led another to
believe a particular thing true, and to act upon such be
lief, he cannot, in any litigation arising out of such
declaration, act, or omission, be permitted to falsify it.
4. A tenant is not permitted to deny the title of his land
lord at the time of the commencement of the relation.
5. The issue of a wife cohabiting with her husband,
who is not impotent, is indisputably presumed to be
legitimate.
(i. The judgment or order of a court, when declared by
this Code to be conclusive; but such judgment or order
must be alleged in the pleadings, if there be' an opportu
nity to do so ; if there be no such opportunity, the judg
ment or order may be used as evidence.
7. Any other presumption which, by statute, is ex
pressly made conclusive.
Subdivision 1. Malicious
ESTOPPEL.
intent—in libel, 47 Cal. 252.
Subdivision
2. Recitals—in
written instruments,
sale21in,Cal.
53
Cal.
713: consideration,
when impeachable,
C. L.butJ.see506:31 Cal.
conflicting
patents,
34 Cal.
506 ; 44 Feb.
Cal. 2nd,
563:
deeds in, 3 Cal. 263 ; 6 Cal. 149; 1! Cal"21), 315; 14 Cal. 612; 22 Cal. 112, 580;
28 Cal. 175; 30 Cal. 560; 50 Cal. 503; andsee quitclaim deeds: execution,
purchase on, 22 Cal. 224 ; 31 Cal. 591 : fraud in deed, patent, etc., 6 Cal.
665; 21 Cal.13220;
may100;
deny18Cal.465:
grantor's title,
extentpolof
doctrine,
Cal.44494;Cal.14563:
Cal.grantee
472; 16 Cal.
insurance
icy, acknowledgment of premium, Civil Code, sec. 2598 : limits of pre
sumption,
6 Cal. 149;
13 Cal.
and see
Mexican
?rant,
Impeaching,
48 Cal.
339: 477;
mortgage
as, 48consideration:
Cal. 57,2: mortgagor
of
ee, estoppel of, 13 CaL 538; 31 Cal. 457 : municipality, deed of, 52 Cal.
257: parties and privies, alone estopped, 16 Cal. 100; 36 Cal. 505: patent,
49
Cal. 213,
331 ; and see conflicting
patents, fraud,
State
patent, United
States
patent:
supplementary,
claimant,
50 Cal.pleadings,
196: quit-claim
deeds, 14 In,
Cal.48472Cal.
; 18346:
Cal.pre-emption
465; 30 Cal.
143: street
contract
deeds
States
patent,
14 Cal.In,467;52 15Cal.
Cal.270:
366;tax
16 Cal.
229,in,324;53 17Cal.Cal.213:
225,United
259; 20
Cal. 150, 412; 22 Cal. Ill, 480; 29 Cal. 311; 45 Cal. 538; 48 Cal. 345; 49 Cal.
334.
Subdivision 3. Estoppel in pais—absent, when, 3 Cal. 400 ; 6 Cal.
263, 531; 10 Cal. 90, 172,589; 13 Cal. 494; 17 Cal. 401; 22 Cal. 468; 24 Cal.
268; 25 Cal. 147; 26 Cal. 23; 28 Cal. 175; 31 Cal. 218; 36 Cal. 535 ; 37 Cal. 40;
38 Cal. 119, 300, 428 ; 40 Cal. 429; 43 Cal. 526, 597: acquiescence, generally,
4!)
Cal. 438; 51 Cal.
Saltern.
Baker, Feb.
1880,600;
4 Pac.
C. Cal.
Ij. J.314;
543:60acquiescence
in 275;
location
of division
fence,6th,9 Cal.
25
Cal.
619;
48
Cal.
395;
50Cal.
295;
51
Cal.
362:
agreed
survey,
when
none
by, 52 Cal. 442 : certiorari on, 47 Cal. 222: certificate of purchase by,
52
Cal. 244 : corporation of, 50 Cal. 353 : deception, liability tor, Civil Code,
sec. 1709; 2 Cal. 270, 491; 4 Cal. 300: 8 Cal. 117; 14 Cal. 367; 26 Cal. 40; 31
Cal. 153, 218: Flshbeck v. Phcenlx Ins. Co., March 24th, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L.
J.
212: asdedication
streets,
22 Cal.10488Cal.; 35158;Cal.19490:
tional,
to, 60 Cal.of258:
equitable,
Cal.defendant,
660 ; 24 Cal.addi
114,
127; 25 Cal. 596; 44 Cal. 162: exists, when, 2 Cal. 489 : 3 Cal. 302; 4 Cal. 97,
300; 5 Cal. 84, 366 ; 6 Cal. 607; 7 Cal. 551; 8 Cal. 27, 77, 113, 303, 461; 9 Cal.
204.600; 10 Cal. 172; 12 Cal. 148; 13 Cal. 359; 14 Cal. 279; 16 Cal. 345, 591 ; 23
Cal.
11 ; 38
24 Cal.
Cal. 300:
268; guardian
25 Cal. 545,of,593;
26 Cal.
30 Cal. 408; as31 toCal.
148; of,
36
Cal. 94;
32 Cal.
119:23;partnership,
books
49 Cal. 105: pleadings, by, 12 Cal. 191; 27 Cal. 228; 30 Cal. 360; 37 Cal. 34;
49 Cal. 414: pledgor of, 30 Cal. 377: receiptor of, 10 Cal. 172; 45 Cal. 223:
silence as, 10 Cal. 631, and see Acquiescence: stipulation by, 51 Cal.
629: 53 Cal. 680: subsequent purchaser, when none for, 52 Cal. 579:
waiver, where, 22 Cal. 680; 53 Cal. 135.
Subdivision 4. Tenant's denial of landlord's title—rule against,
2Cal.
Cal.89;55827: 6Cal.
Cal.105;
197;448 Cal.
9 Cal.474575;
Cal.250:
133;exceptions,
12 Cal. 290; 21
16
Cal. 398,
515; 581;
47 Cal.
; 50 11Cal.
Cal. 309 ; 29.Cal. 168; 30 Cal. 201; 33 Cal. 237; 35 Cal. 558: Justification,
see Exceptions, and 34 Cal. 265 ; 36 Cal. 307; 37 Cal. 389; 38 Cal. 262 ; 44
Cal. 608; 45 Cal. 594; 47 Cal. 459, 474; 49 Cal. 202: proof of relation, 30
Cal. 544 : rule inapplicable, 38 Cal. 122.
Subdivision 6.5. Judgment
Legitimacyorof order—when
issue—compare
conclusive,
sec. 1963, subd.
see sec.
31.
1908; 14 Cal. 634: 23 Cal. 354, 373; 27 Cal. 228 ; 30 Cal. 229, 301, 309, 360, 630;
3137 Cal.
Cal. 236,
148;389;
32 Cal.
176;259,
33 590;
Cal. 74,
448; 473;
34 Cal.
265; 246.
36 Cal.
28, 230,
489;
38 Cal.
39 Cal.
40 Cal.
281, 294;
41 Cal.
221,232,298 ; 42 Cal. 368; 43 Cal. 86, 210, 306; 44 Cal. 292; 45 Cal. 128, 439,
486.
Subdivision 7. Other estoppels—alcalde grant, as to, 1 Cal. 295:
conclusive evidence, generally, sec. 1978; 45 Cal. 644: infants, none
against, 25 Cal. 153 : notice in probate matters, sees. 1376, 1638 : probate
of will, sec. 1333: survey, governmental, when by, 49 Cal. 473.
§ 1963. All other presumptions are satisfactory, if un
contradicted. They are denominated disputable pre
sumptions, and may be controverted by other evidence.
The following are of that kind :
1. That a person is innocent of crime or wrong.
2. That an unlawful act was done with an unlawful in
tent.
3. That a person intends the ordinary consequence of his
voluntary act.
4. That a person takes ordinary care of his own con
cerns
5. That evidence willfully-suppressed would be adverse
if produced.
6. That higher evidence would be adverse from inferior
being produced.
7. That money paid by one to another was due to the
latter.
8. That a thing delivered by one to another belonged to
the latter.
9. That an obligation delivered up to the debtor has
been paid.
10. That former rent or installments have been paid
when a receipt for latter is produced.
11. That things which a person possesses are owned by
him.
12. That a person is the owner of property from exer
cising acts ot ownership over it, or from common reputa
tion of his ownership.
13. That a person in possession of an order on himself
for the payment of money, or the delivery of a thing, has
paid the money or delivered the thing accordingly.
14. That a person acting in a public office was regularly
appointed to it.
15. That official duty has been regularly performed.
10. That a court or judge, acting as such, whether in this
State or any other State or country, was acting in the law
ful exercise of his jurisdiction.
17. That a judicial record, when not conclusive, does
still correctly determine or set forth the rights of the par
ties.
18. That all matters within an issue were laid before the
jury and passed upon by them ; and in like manner, that
all matters within a submission to arbitration were laid
before the arbitrators and passed upon by them.
19. That private transactions have been fair and regu
lar.
20. That the ordinary course of business has been fol
lowed.
21. That a promissory note or bill of exchange was
given or indorsed for a sufficient consideration.
22. That an indorsement of a negotiable promissory
note or bill of exchange was made at the time and place
of making the note or bill.
23. That a writing is truly dated.
24. That a letter duly directed and mailed was received
in the regular course of the mail.
25. Identity of person from identity of name.
26. That a person not heard from in seven years is dead.
27. That
acquiescence
followed from
a belief
the
■fbing
acquiesced
in was conformable
to the
right that
or fact.
28. That things have happened according to the ordi
nary course of nature and the ordinary habits of life.
29. That persons acting as copartners have entered into
contract of copartnership.
band
30. That
and awife
man have
and woman
entereddeporting
into a lawful
themselves
contract
as husof
marriage.
31. That a child born in lawful wedlock, there being no
divorce from bed and board, is legitimate.
32. That a thing once proved to exist continues as long
as is usual with things of that nature.
33. That the law has been obeyed.
34. That a document or writing more than thirty years
old, is genuine, when the same has been since generally
acted upon as genuine, by persons having an interest in
the question, and its custody has been satisfactorily ex
plained.
35. That a printed and published book, purporting to
be printed or published by public authority, was so
printed or published.
36. That a printed and published book, purporting to
contain reports of cases adjudged in the tribunals of the
State or country where the book is published, contains
correct reports of such cases.
37. That a trustee or other person, whose duty it was to
convey real property to a particular person, has actually
conveyed to him, when such presumption is necessary to
perfect the title of such person or his successor in inter
est.
38. The uninterrupted use by the public of land for a
burial ground, for five years, with the consent of the
owner and without a reservation of his rights, is presump
tive evidence of his intention to dedicate it to the public
for that purpose.
39. That there ,was a good and sufficient consideration
for a written contract.
40. When two persons perish in the same calamity, such
as a wreck, a battle, or a conflagration, and it is not shown
who died first, and there are no particular circumstances
from which it can be inferred, survivorship is presumed
from the probabilities resulting from the strength, age,
and sex, according to the following rules :
First.—If both of those who have perished were under
the age of fifteen years, the older is presumed to have
survived.
Second.—If both were above the age of sixty, the younger
is presumed to have survived.
Third.—If one be under fifteen and the other above
sixty, the former is presumed to have survived.
Fourth.—If both be over fifteen and under sixty, and
the sexes be different, the male is presumed to have sur
vived. If the sexes be the same, then the older.
F{fth.—If one be under fifteen or over sixty, and tin
other between those ages, the latter is presumed to have
survived.
Presumptions—when raised, 21 Cal. 456: of knowledge of the la*
50 Cal. 337: rebutting, 52 Cal. 650: where two equally reasonable, 6 Cai.
630.
,
DISPUTABLE PRESUMPTIONS.
toSubdivision
overcome, see1.sec.Innocence—of
2061, subd. 5. crime or wrong, evidence required
Subdivision 6. Higher evidence adverse—see sec. 2061, subd. i
Subdivision 8. Thing delivered, etc.—deed, 49 Cal. 374.
Subdivision 11. Title from possession — presumption of: JSeoi
property,
Cal.152,
33, 262;
67, 79,8 Cal.
94, 278,
Cal.60342,; 987,Cal.
250,1,486;
6 Cal.
I*
173,649 ; 7 4Ca).
113,308:
323, 5467,
63,427,
589;108,
10 CaL
181,230,233;
143;
17 Cal. 43,11 107,271;
Cal. 153; 1812Cal.
Cal.199;
291, 19560;Cal.13 625;
Cal. 2038,Cal.
166, 209;
562; 2115 Cal.
271, 333;
523. 37Personal
Cal. 101 ;property,2
43 Cal. 371, Cal.
485; 370;
4t Cal.
5 Cal.516,460599;
; 8 CaL
45 Cal.
615:
9cotenant,
Cal. 246; by,
19 Cal.
64; 247,
31 Cat.
Possession
constitute-,
23 Cal.
3764649.
ejectment,
in, 13requisite.
§ 1967. The law makes certain evidence necessary to
the validity of particular acts, or the proof of particular
facts.
§ 1968. Perjury and treason must be proved by testi
mony of more than one witness. Treason by the testi
mony of two witnesses to the same overt act; and perjury
by the testimony of two witnesses, or one witness and
corroborating circumstances.
Two witnesses—for probate of lost will, sec. 1339.
§ 1969. A last will and testament, except a nuncupative
will, is invalid, unless it be in writing and executed with
such formalities as are required by law. When, thereforee,
such a will is to be shown, the instrument itself must be
Eiroduced, or secondary evidence of its contents be given.
In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Lost or destroyed will—probate of, sees. 1338-1341.
§ 1970. A written will cannot be revoked or altered
otherwise than as provided in the Civil Code. [In effect
July 1st, 1874.]
Revocation or alteration of will—see Civil Code, sec. 1292 el seq.
§ 1971. No estate or interest in real property, other
than for leases for a term not exceeding one year, nor any
trust or power over or concerning it, or in any manner re
lating thereto, can be created, granted, assigned, surren
dered, or declared, otherwise than by operation of law, or
a conveyance, or other instrument in writing, subscribed
by the party creating, granting, assigning, surrendering,
or declaring the same, or by his lawful agent thereunto
authorized by writing.
Scope
Real
Corresponding
property—estate,
of section—application
provision—Civil
interest,restricted
etc.,
Code,
in,sec.
compare
by,1091.
sec. 1972.
sec. 1973, subd. 5:
>U1 of sale insufficient, 52 Cal. 191 : mortgage lien can only be created
>y writing, S3 Cal. 677.
Trust—Civil Code, sec. 852 ; 6 Cal. 154.
§ 1972. The preceding section must not be construed
to affect the power of a testator in the disposition of his
real property by a last will and testament, nor to prevent
any trust from arising or being extinguished by implica
tion or operation of law, nor to abridge the power of any
court to compel the specific performance of an agreement,
in case of part performance thereof.
Trusts—implied,21 Cal. 92; 22 Cal. 575; 27 Cal. 119; 35CaL481;
52 Cal. 561.
§ 1973. In the following cases the agreement is in
valid, unless the same or some note or memorandum
thereof be in writing, and subscribed by the party
charged, or by his agent; evidence, thereforee, of the agree
ment, cannot be received without the writing or second
ary evidence of its contents :
1. An agreement that by its terms is not to be per
formed within a year from the making thereof;
2. A special promise to answer for the debt, default, or
miscarriage of another, except in the cases provided for
in section twenty-seven hundred and ninety-four of the
Civil Code ;
3. An agreement made upon consideration of marriage,
other than a mutual promise to marry ;
4. An agreement for the sale of goods, chattels, or
things m action, at a price not less than two hundred dol
lars, unless the buyer >accept and receive part of such
goods and chattels, or the evidences, or some of them, of
such things in action, or pay at the time some part of the
purchase-money ; but when a sale is made by auction, an
entry by the auctioneer.in his sale-book, at the time of the
sale, of the kind of property sold, the terms of sale, the
price, and the names of the purchaser and person on whose
account the sale is made, is a sufficient memorandum ;
5. An agreement for the leasing for a longer period than
one year, or for the sale of real property, or of an interest
therein; and such agreement, if made by an agent of the
party sought to be charged, is invalid, unless the author
ity of the agent be in writing, subscribed by the party
sought
Code
to Civ.
be charged.
Pboo 5».
sec. 1624.of, 21 Cal. 609; 37
Subdivision 1. Agreement not to be performed within a Tearcases within Statute of Frauds, 43 Cal. 509; 46 CaL 266: not within stat
ute, 49 Cal. 274 : parol partnership, part performance, 47 Cal. 174.
Subdivision 2. Guaranty—corresponding provision, Civil Code,
sec.
exception,
Code,
executorby,sec.
within
the 2793:
statute,

Subdivision 4. Agreement for sale of goods, etc.—auction sale,
entry of, see 1 CaL 415; also, Civil Code, sec. 1798, Political Code, sec.
3292:
corresponding
ClvQ Code,sec.
and 181:
see Civil
Code,3
sec. 1740:
contract inprovision,
writing, when
presumed,1739,
1 CaL
deliverv.
Cal.140; 8Cal.614; 14Cal.38f; 19 Cal. 393; 22 Cal. 103,539; 23 Cal. 65. 540:
goods and chattels, growing crops are not, 6 Cal. 664; 17 Cal. 545; 37
Cal. 634 : insurance policy, fire, as collateral security, 30 Cal. 87 : inining
stocks bought on margin, 47 Cal. 142.
Subdivision 5. Agreement as to real property—agent's author
ity, 21 Cal. 389; 30 Cal. 360; 47 Cal. 213: auction sale, when void, 6 CaL
75: before statute enacted, 1 Cal. 98: corresponding provision. Civil
Code, agreement
sec. 1741: court,
sale by,
notnot
within
statute,
9 Cal.
181:315executed
parol
to convey
lands,
within
statute,
4 Cal.
; 39 Cal.
639; 52 Cal. 561: growing crops, not within statute, 23 Cal. 69; 37 Cal.
634 : lease for more than year. 2 Cal. 603 : Mexican law, parol contracts
under, 1 Cal. 119; 10 Cal. 17; 24 Cal. 222 ; 44 Cal. 331 ; 45 Cal. 587: mining
claim, 14 Cal.not22;to20oppose
Cal. 198;
23 Cal.
178;6230Cal.
Cal.624481;
51 performance,
Cal. 258: oral
agreement
patent,
void,
: part
sec. 1972 and note: promise, parol, to pay for improvements, valid, 2
Cal. 489: purchase for another, 22 Cal. 575; 35 Cal. 438: right of way, 38
Cal. Ill : services in selling land, 37 Cal. 529; 38 Cal. 99; 48 Cal. 194:
specific
verbal contract,
171 of
: trust,
of,
21 Cal. 97performance
; 35 Cal. 481 : of
unwritten
contract24forCal.sale
land,violation
void, 4 CaL
90 : verbal agreement to reconvey land, 48 Cal. 405 ; 50 Cal. 23 : void In
part, If entire contract Invalid, 38 Cal. 99 : writing need not be alleged,
51 Cal. 210.
§ 1974. No evideDce is admissible to charge a person
upon a representation as to the credit of a tbjrd person,
unless such representation, or some memorandum there
of, be in writing, and either subscribed by, or in the hand
writing of, the party to be charged.
§ 1981. The party holding the affirmative of the issue
must produce the evidence to prove it; thereforee, the
burden of proof lies on the party who would be defeated
if no evidence were given on either side.
Burden of proof—see under Apfibmativb Allegations, sec.
1869n: affirmative matter in answer, where, 8 Cal. 31; 15 Cal. 100: eject
ment In, 51 Cal. 55; Insanity of, 47 Cal. 134; money paid under duress.
26 Cal. 606.
§ 1982. The party producing a writing as gennine
which has been altered, or appears to have been altered,
after its execution, in a part material to the question in
<lispute, must account for the appearance or alteration.
He may show that the alteration was made by another,
without his concurrence, or was made with the consent of
the parties affected by it, or otherwise properly or inno
cently made, or that the alteration did not change the
meaning or language of "the instrument. If he do that,
he may give the writing in evidence, but not otherwise.
Alteration—effect of, 50 Cal. 613 : Impeaching certificate for, 52 Cat.
171: in indictment, 50 Cal. 447: need of accounting for, 26 Cal. 85 : suffi
ciently explained, 34 Cal. 564.
Printed form—erasure in, 32 Cal. 88: construction of, sec. 1862.
CHAPTER H.
MEANS OF PRODUCTION.
§ 1985.
1986. Subpoena
Subpoena,for
howwitness
issued.defined.
§ 1987. Subpoena, how served.
§ 1988.
witness isbocompelled
concealed.to attend.
1989. How,
WhenIfa witness
§ 1990. Person present compelled to testify.
§ 1991. Disobedience, how punished.
SS 1992.
therefore.
1993. Forfeiture
Warrant may
issue to bring witness, when.
§ 1994. Contents of warrant.
§ 1996.
1995. If
witness
be
a
prisoner, how brought.
On whose motion.
§ 1985. The process by which the attendance of a wit
ness is required is a subpoena. It is a writ or order di
reeted to a person and requiring his attendance at a par
ticular time and place to testify as a witness. It may
also require him to bring with him any books, documents,
or other things under his control, which he is bound by
law to produce in evidence.
§ 1986. The subpoena is issued as follows :
1. To require attendance before a court, or at the trial
of an issue therein, it is issued under the seal of the court
before which the attendance is required, or in which the
issue is pending;
2. To require attendance out of the court, before a judge,
justice, or other officer authorized to administer oaths or
take testimony in any matter under the laws of this
State, it is issued by the judge, justice, or any other officer
before whom the attendance is required;
3. To require attendance before a commissioner ap
pointed to take testimony by a court of a foreign coun
try, or of the United States, or of any other State in the
United States, or of any other district or county within
this State, or before any officer or officers empowered by
the laws of the United States to take testimony, it may
be issued by any judge or justice oi the peace in places
within their respective jurisdiction; with like power to
enforce attendance, and, upon certificate of contumacy to
said court, to punish contempt of their process, as such
judge or justice could exercise if the subpcana directed
the attendance of the witness before their courts in a
matter pending therein.
§ 1987. The service of a subpoena is made by showing
the original and delivering a' copy, or a ticket containing
its substance, to the witness personally, giving or offering
to him at the same time, if demanded by him, the fees to
which he is entitled for travel to and from the place
designated, and one day's attendance there. The serv
ice must be made so as to allow the witness a reasonable
time for preparation and travel to the place of attend
ance. Such service may be made by any person.
§ 1988. If a witness is concealed in a building or vessel,
so as to prevent the service of a subpcana upon him, any
court or judge, or any officer issuing a subpcana, may,
upon proof by affidavit of the concealment, and of the
materiality of the witness, make an order that the sheriff
of the county servo the subpcana; and the sheriff must
serve it accordingly, and for that purpose may break into
the building or vessel where the witness is concealed.
§ 1989. A witness is not obliged to attend as a witness
before any court, judge, justice, or any other officer, out
of the county in which he resides, unless the distance be
less than thirty miles froru his place of residence to the
place of trial.
§ 1990. A person present in court, or before a judicial
officer, may be required to testify in the same manner as
if he were in attendance upon a subpoena issued by such
court or officer.
§ 1991. Disobedience to a subpoena, or a refusal to be
Rworn, or to answer as a witness, or to subscribe an affi
davit or deposition when required, may be punished as a
contempt by the court or officer issuing the subpoena or
requiring the witness to be sworn ; and if the witness be
a party, his complaint or answer maybe stricken out.
Disobedience to subpoena—46 Cal. 82.
Refusal to answer—sec. 2065; 35 Cal. 89.
Contempt—sees. 1209, 1219.
§ 1992. A witness disobeying a subpoena also forfeits
to the party aggrieved the sum of one hundred dollars,
and all damages which he may sustain by the failure of
the witness to attend, which forfeiture and damages may
be recovered in a civil action.
§ 1993. In case of failure of a witness to attend, the
court or officer issuing the subpoena, upon proof of the serv
ice thereof, and of the failure of the witness, may issue a
warrant to the sheriff of the county to arrest the witness
and bring him before the court or officer where his at
tendance was required.
§ 1994. Every warrant of commitment, issued by a
court or officer pursuant to this chapter, must specify
therein, particularly, the cause of the commitment, and
if it be tor refusing to answer a question, such question
must be stated in the warrant. And every warrant to
arrest or commit a witness, pursuant to this chapter,
must be directed to the sheriff of the county where the
witness may be, and must be executed by him in the
same manner as process issued by the Superior Court.
[In effect April 16th, 1880.]
§ 1995. If the witness be a prisoner, confined in a jail
or prison within this State, an order for his examination
in the prison upon deposition, or for his temporary re
moval and production before a court or officer, for the
purpose of being orally examined, may be made as fol
lows:
1. By the court itself in which the action or special pro
ceeding is pending, unless it be a Justice's Court;
2. By a justice of the Supreme Court, or a judge of the
Superior Court of the county where the action or proceed
ing is pending, if pending before a Justice's Court, or
before a judge or other person out of court. [In effect
April 16th, 1880.]
§ 1996. Such order can only be made on the motion
of a party, upon affidavit showing the nature of the ac
tion or proceeding, the testimony expected from the wit
ness, and its materiality.
§ 1997. If the witness be imprisoned in the county
where the action or proceeding is pending, his production
may be required. In all other cases his examination,
when allowed, must be taken upon deposition.
§ 2002. The testimony of witnesses is taken, in three
modes:
1. By affidavit;
2. By deposition ;
3. By oral examination/
§ 2003. An affidavit is a written declaration under
oath, made without notice to the adverse party.
Affidavits—sec. 2009 et seq.
§ 2004. A deposition is a written declaration under
oath, made upon notice to the adverse party for the pur
pose of enabling him to attend and cross-examine.
Depositions—sees. 2019-2021 : form of, sec. 2006.
§ 2005. An oral examination is an examination in
presence of the jury or tribunal which is to decide the
fact or act upon it, the testimony being heard by the jury
orGeneral
tribunal
rules
from
of examination—sees.
the lips of the witness.
§ 2006. Depositions must be taken in the form of ques
tion and answer, and the words of the witness must be
written down, unless the parties agree to a different mode.
Form of taking depositions—formerly, in narrative form, 35 Cal.39.
§ 2009. An affidavit may be used to verify a pleading
or a paper in a special proceeding, to prove the service of
a summons, notice, or other paper in an action or special
proceeding, to obtain a provisional remedy, the examina
tion of a witness, or a stay of proceedings, or upon a
motion, and in any other case expressly permitted by
some other provision of this Code.
Use of affidavits—31 Cal. 203.
Signature—not essential, 15 Cal. 53.
In foreign language—excluded, 23 Cal. 418.
Extent of affidavit—27 Cal. 298.
§ 2010. Evidence of the publication of a document or
notice required by law, or by an order of a court or judge,
to be published in a newspaper, may be given by the affi
davit of the printer of the newspaper, or his foreman or
principal clerk, annexed to a copy of the document or
notice, specifying the times when and the paper in which
the publication was made.
Affidavit of publication—see sec. 413ra: "proprietor" synonymous
with " printer," 37 Cal. 458.
§ 2,011. If such affidavit be made in an action or special
proceeding pending in a court, it may be filed with the
court or a clerk thereof. If not so made, it may be filed
with the clerk of the county where the newspaper is
printed. In either case, the original affidavit, or a copy
thereof, certified by the judge of the court or clerk having
it in custody, is prima facie evidence of the facts stated
therein. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
§ 2012. An affidavit to be used before any court, judge,
or officer of this State, may be taken before any judge or
clerk of any court, or any justice of the peace or notary
public in this State.
Personsofauthorized
to take
179,need
snbd.not3: appear,
official
character
justice of the
peace,affidavits—sec.
within the State,
15 Cal. 53.
§ 2013. An affidavit taken in another State of the
United States, to be used in this State, may be taken be
fore a commissioner appointed by the governor of this
State to take affidavits and depositions in such other
State, or before any notary public in another State, or
before any judge or clerk of a court of record having a
seal. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
§ 2014. An affidavit taken in a foreign Gountry to be
used in this State, may be taken before an embassador,
minister, consul, vice-consul, or consular agent of the
Uuited States, or before any judge of a court of record
having a seal, in such foreign country. [In effect July
1st, 1874.]
§ 2015. When an affidavit is taken before a judge of a
court in another State, or in a foreign country, the gen
uineness of the signature of the judge, the existence of
the court and the fact that such judge is a member thereof,
must be certified by the clerk of the court, under the seal
thereof.
article in.
DEPOSITIONS.
2019. Deposition, when used.
2020. Testimony of a witness out of the State, when taken.
§ 2021. In the State, when taken.
§ 2019. In all cases other than those mentioned in sec
tion two thousand and nine, where a written declaration
under oath is used, it must be a deposition as prescribed
by this Code.
§ 2020. The testimony of a witness out of the State
may be taken by deposition, in an action, at any time
after the service of the summons or the appearance-of the
defendant; and, in a special proceeding, at any time after
a question of fact has arisen therein.
Manner of taking depositions ont of the State—sec. 2024 et icq§ 2021. The testimony of a witness in this State may be
taken by deposition in an action at any time after the
service of the summons on the appearance of the defend
ant, and in a special proceeding after a question of fact
has arisen therein, in the following cases :
1. When the witness is a party to the action or proceed
ing, or an officer or member of a corporation which is a
party to the action or proceeding, or a person for whose
immediate benefit the action or proceeding is prosecuted
or defended.
2. When the ■witness resides out of the county in which
his testimony is to he used.
3. "When the witness is about to leave the county where
the action is to be tried, and will probably continue ab
sent when the testimony is required.
4. When the witness, otherwise liable to attend the
trial, is nevertheless too inflrm to attend.
5. When the testimony is required upon a motion, or in
any other case where the oral examination of the witness
is not required.
6. When the witness is the only one who can establish
facts or a fact material to the issue; provided, that the
deposition of such witness shall not be used if his presence
can be procured at the time of the trial of the cause.
[In effect March 9th, 1878.]
Deposition—mode of taking, sec. 2006: who may take, 2CaI. 25; sec.
179,
subd. 3; in49this
of taking,
sec. strict
2031 etseq.
: name part
of testimony,
Cal.stats,
383: manner
service of,
47 Cat. 644:
construction
be
fore Code, 2 Cal. 26, 383 : amending answer after, 47 CaL 174.
Subdivision 1. Party, etc.—29 Cal. 619.
Subdivision 2. Out of county—29 Cal. 619.
§ 2024. The deposition of a witness out of this State
may be taken upon commission issued from the court,
under the seal of the court, upon an order of the court,
or a judge thereof, on the application of either party, upon
rive days' previous notice to the other. If issued to any
place within the United States, it may be directed to a
person agreed upon by the parties, or, if they do not
agree, to any judge or justice of the peace, or commis
sioner, selected by the court or judge issuing it. If issued
to any country out of the United States, it may be di
rected to a minister, embassador, consul, vice-consul, or
consular agent of the United States in such country, or
to any person agreed upon by the parties. [In effect April
16th, 1880.]
Commissioner—estoppel to dispute regularity of appointment, 27
Cal. 377.
§ 2025. Such proper interrogatories, direct and cross,
as the respective parties may prepare to be settled, if
the parties disagree as to their form, by the judge or offi
cer granting the order for the commission, at a day fixed
in the order, may be annexed to the commission ; or, when
the
parties
agree interrogatories.
to that mode, the examination may be
■without
written
Interrogatories—question and answer In depositions, sec. 2006.
§ 2026. The commission must authorize the commis
sioner to administer an oath to the witness, and to take
his deposition in answer to the interrogatories, or when
the examination is to be without interrogatories, in re
spect to the question in dispute, and to certify the depo
sition to the court, in a sealed envelope, directed to the
clerk or other person designated or agreed upon, and for
warded to him by mail or other usual channel of convey
ance.
Certificate—sec. 2032»; 27 Cal. 372.
§ 2027. A trial or other proceeding must not be post
poned by reason of a commission not returned, except
upon evidence, satisfactory to the court, that the testi
mony of the witness is necessary, and that proper dili
gence has been used to obtain it.
Continuance—none, where no diligence in obtaining commission, 2
Cal. 598.
§ 2028. The deposition mentioned in this article may
be used by either party on the trial or other proceeding,
against any other party giving or receiving the notice,
subject to all just exceptions.
§ 2031. Either party may have the deposition taken of
a witness in this State, in either of the cases mentioned in
section two thousand and twenty-one, before a judge or
officer authorized to administer oaths, on serving upon
the adverse party previous notice of the time and place
of examination, together with a copy of an affidavit, show
ing that the case is within that section. Such notice must
V>e at least five days, adding also one day for every twentylive miles of the distance of the place of examination
from the residence of the person to whom the notice is
given, unless, for a cause shown, a judge, by order, pre
scribe a shorter time. When a shorter time is prescribed,
a copy of the order must be served with the notice.
Wotice—absence of, 5 Cal. 444: contents of, 6 Cal. 559: proof .of serv
ice of, 43 Cal. 465: service of, before Code, 47 Cal. 644: sufficiency of, 17
Cal. 37 : time shortened, 17 Cal. 37.
§ 2032. Either party may attend the examination and
put such questions, direct and cross, as may be proper.
The deposition, when completed, must be carefully read
to the witness and corrected by him in any particular, if
desired; it must then be subscribed by the witness, certi
fied by the judge or officer taking the deposition, inclosed
in an envelope or wrapper, sealed and directed to the
clerk of the court in which the action is pending, or to
such person as the parties in writing may agree upon, and
either delivered by the judge or officer to the clerk or such
person, or transmitted through the mail, or by some safe
private opportunity; and thereupon such deposition may
be used by either party upon the trial or other proceeding
against any party giving or receiving the notice, subject
to all legal exceptions; but if the parties attend at the ex
amination, no objection to the form of an interrogatory
shall be made at the trial, unless the same was stated at
the time of the examination. If the deposition be taken
under subdivisions two, three, and four, of section two
thousand and twenty-one, proof must be made at the trial
that the witness continues absent or infirm, or is dead.
The deposition thus taken may be also read in case of the
death of the witness.
Ex parte deposition—after notice, 6 Cal. 17.
Certificate-6 Cal. 559; 18 Cal. 330; 35 Cal. 30.
Objections to deposition—2 Cal. 3S3; 3 Cal. 94; 9 Cal. 68; 14 Cal. 542;
IS Cal. 330; 19 Cal. 683 ; 22 Cal. 42: 36 CaL 191; 43 Cal. 485; when not ad
missible against executor, 51 Cal. 101.
§ 2033. Notwithstanding the taking of a deposition, it
may be excluded from the case upon proof that sufficient
notice was not given to the party against whom it is
offered to enable him to attend the taking thereof, or that
the taking was not in all respects fair.
§ 2034. When a deposition has been once taken, it
may be read by either party in any stage of the same
code Civ. pboo.—58.
action or proceeding, or in any other action between the
same parties upon the same subject, and is then deemed
the evidence of the party reading it.
Reading deposition—in same action, 14 Cal. 542 ; sec. 2028 : in another
action, by stipulation, 22 Cal. 42.
§ 2035. Any party to an action or special proceeding
in a court, or before a judge, of a sister State, may obtain
the testimony of a witness residing in this State, to be
used in such action or proceeding, in the cases mentioned
in the next two sections.
§ 2036. If a commission to take such testimony has
been issued from the court, or a judge thereof, before
which such action or proceeding is pending, on producing
the commission to a judge of the Superior Court with an
affidavit satisfactory to him of the materiality of the tes
timony, he may issue a subpoena to the witness, requiring
him to appear and testify before the commissioner named
in the commission, at a specified time and place. [In
effect April 16th, 1880.]
Subpama—sec. 19S5 ei seq.
§ 2037. If a commission has not been issued, and it
appear to a judge of the Superior Court, or to a justice of
the peace, by affidavit satisfactory to him:
1. That the testimony of the witness is material to
either party;
2. That a commission to take the testimony of such wit
ness has not been issued ;
3. That, according to the law of the State where the
action or special proceeding is pending, the deposition of
a witness taken under such circumstances, and before
such judge or justice, will be received in the action or
proceeding; he must issue his subpoena requiring the wit
ness to appear and testify before him at a specified time
and place. [In effect April 16th, 1880.]
§ 2038. Upon the appearance of the witness, the judge
or justice must cause his testimony to be taken in writ
ing, and must certify and transmit the same to the court
or judge before whom the action or proceeding^ is pending,
in such manner as the law of that State requires.
§ 2042. The order of proof must be regulated by the
sound discretion of the court. Ordinarily, the party be
ginning the case must exhaust his evidence before the
other party begins.
Order of proof—controlled by court, sec. 607 and note: reopening
case, sec. 607, subd. 3, note, and 5 Cal. 137: in criminal case, 47 Cal. 388:
where assignment of contract, 27 Cal. 248.
§ 2043. If either party requires it, the judge may ex
clude from the court-room any witness of the adverse
party, not at the time under examination, so that he may
not hear the testimony of other witnesses.
Exclusion of witnesses—proper, 53 Cal. 491 : discretion of court, 29
Cal. 622 : effect of disobeying order for, 20 Cal. 436.
§ 2044. The court must exercise a reasonable control
over the mode of interrogation, so as to make it as rapid,
as distinct, as little annoying to the witness, and as effect
ive for the extraction of the truth as may be; but subject
to this rule—the parties may put such pertinent and legal
questions as they see fit. The court, however, may stop
the production of further evidence upon any particular
point when the evidence upon it is already so full as to
preclude reasonable doubt.
Control of court—over examination, 47 Cal. 194: answer of witness,
sees. 2065, 2066: stopping further testimony, 39 Cal. 38.
§ 2045. The examination of a witness by the party
producing him is denominated the direct examination;
the examination of the same witness, upon the same
matter, by the adverse party, the cross-examination.
The direct examination must be completed before the
cross-examination begins, unless the court otherwise
direct.
§ 2046. A question which suggests to the witness the
answer which the examining party desires, is denominated
a leading or suggestive question. On a direct examina
tion, leading questions are not allowed, except in the
sound discretion of the court, under special circumstances
making it appear that the interests of justice require it.
§ 2047. A witness is allowed to refresh his memory
respecting a fact, by anything written by himself or under
his direction at the time when the fact occurred or imme
diately thereafter, or at any other time when the fact was
fresh in his memory and he knew that the same was cor
rectly stated in the writing. But in such case, the writ
ing must be produced and may be seen by the adverse
party, who may, if he choose, cross-examine the witness
upon it, and may read it to the jury. So, also, a witness
may testify from such a writing, though he retain no
recollection of the particular facts, but such evidence
must be received with caution.
Refreshing memory—4 Cal. 260 ; 43 CaL 166.
Inspection of writing—shown to witness, sec. 2054.
§ 2048. The opposite party may cross-examine the
witness as to any facts stated in his direct examination or
connected therewith, and in so doing may put leading
questions, but if he examine him as to other matters,
such examination is to be subject to the same rules as a
direct examination.
Cross-examination, scope and extent of—common territory, on, 86
Cal. 223: credibility of witness, attacking, 27 Cal. 68; 39 Cal. 62S; 53 CaL
4.15,
and seeofimpeachment:
directing
of witness,
46 Cal.entry
121 :
discretion
court, 36 Cal. 223;
45 Cal.attention
146; 47 Cal.
194: forcible
and detainer, 36 Cal. 5S0: Impeachment by collateral question, 53 Cal.
65,11!): new matter, etc., 14 Cal. 18; 25 Cal. 212; 30Cal.l59: 32 Cal. 106:
objection,
raising in time,
45 Cal.
party
hibiting continuance,
47 Cal.
194: 146:
range
of, as33 witness,
Cal. 641;4151Cal.
Cal.425:
75. pro
597:
recall for, 4!l Cal. 632: 50 Cal. 137: responsive to direct examination, 5
Cal. 450; 7 Cal. 561; 14 Cal. 18; 33 Cal.9»; stopping further testimony,
sec. 2044 : stopping one's own witness, 36 Cal. 223.
§ 2049. The party producing a witness is not allowed
to impeach his credit by evidence of bad character, but he
may contradict him by other evidence, and may also show
that he has made at other times statements inconsistent
witli his present testimony, as provided in section two
thousand
Scope of provision—30
and fifty-two.
Cal. 394.
30Discrediting
Cal. 360 : no need
one'sofown
contradicting
witness—49at Cal.
time,384:22 when
Cal. 231not
: party
permitted,
made
one's witness, estoppel as to, 12 Cal. 308.
§ 2050. A witness once examined cannot be re-examiued as to the same matter without leave of the court, hut
lie may be re-examined as to any new matter upon which
lie has been examined by the adverse party. And after
the examinations on both sides are once concluded, the
witness cannot be recalled without leave of the court.
Leave is granted or withheld, in the exercise of a sound
liscretion.
Recalling witness—in criminal case, 49 Cal. 623: (liscretion of court,
sec. 607, subd. 3, note; SO Cal. 137; 51 Cal. 191.
§ 2051. A witness may be impeached by the party
against whom he was called, by contradictory evidence,
or by evidence that his general reputation for truth, hon
esty, or integrity is bad, but not by evidence of particular
wrongful acts, except that it may be shown by the exam
ination of the witness, or the record of the judgment, that
lie lias been convicted of a felony.
Compare—sec. 1847.
Impeaching
adverse witness
General reputation
personal
knowledge
not sufficient,
53 Cal. 68:— credibility,
41 Cal. 66;bad,
48 Cal.
185; 4!)
Cal. 32, 632 : not believing under oath. 12 Cal. 306 ; 35 Cal. 553 : hostility, 48
Cal. 185: chastity, lack of. not ground, 27 Cal. 630 ; 48 Cal. 553. Previous
conviction offelony, 39 Cal. 449, 614,697; 50 Cal. 233; 51 Cal. 597. Range
of cross-examination,
collateral
matters, 51 Cal.
597; :53laying
Cal. founda
65, 119:
Rood
character, showing
after impeachment,
sec. 2053»
tion, 53 Cal. 425.
§ 2052. A witness may also be impeached by evidence
that he has made, at other times, statements inconsistent
with his present testimony; but before this can be done
the statements must be related to him, with the circum
stances of times, places, and persons present, and he must
be asked whether he made such statements, and if so,
allowed to explain them. If the statements be in writing,
they must be shown to the witness before any question is
put to him concerning them.
Inconsistent statements of witness—impeachment by showing, 2
Cal.
16 Cal.
17 Cal.
605; 452;
21 Cal.
368; 25138;Cal.48 587;
492 ; 326;
33 Cal.
522; 173,222;
43 Cal. 162;
44 Cal.
47 Cal.
Cal. 2985,Cal.
185;421.
49
Cal. 384 ; 50 Cal. 628 ; 51 Cal. 551.
§ 2053. Evidence of the good character of a party is
not admissible in a civil action, nor of a witness in any
action, until the character of such party or witness lias
been impeached, or unless the issue involves his character.
Evidence of good character— effect of, 49 Cal. 485 : in criminal case,
49
Cal.of629:witness
after Impeachment,
48 Cal.
; 50 Cal. 2S3:
judge'sDonnelly
indorse
ment
improper, 27 Cal.
300:61rebutting,
irrelevant,
v. Curran, March 18th, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 215.
§ 2054. "Whenever a writing is shown to a witness, it
may be inspected by the opposite party, and if proved by
the witness must be read to the jury before his testimony
is closed, or it cannot be read except on recalling the wit
ness.
Writing shown to witness—open to Inspection, where merely
identified, 52 Cal. 457 : where put in evidence, 40 Cal. 638; where dono
to refresh memory, sec. 2047.
§ 2061. The jury, subject to the control of the court,
in the cases specified in this Code, are the judges of the
effect or value of evidence addressed to them, except
when it is declared to be conclusive. They are, however,
to be instructed by the court on all proper occasions—
1. That their power of judging of the effect of evidence
is not arbitrary, but to be exercised with legal discretion,
and in subordination to the rules of evidence.
2. That they are not bound to decide in conformity with
the declarations of any number of witnesses, which do not
produce conviction in their minds, against a less number
or against a presumption or other evidence satisfying
their minds.
3. That a witness false in one part of his testimony is to
be distrusted in others.
4. That the testimony of an accomplice ought to be
viewed with distrust, and the evidence of the oral admis
sions of a party with caution.
5. That in civil cases the affirmative of the issue must
be proved, and when the evidence is contradictory the
decision must be made according to the preponderance of
evidence; that in criminal cases guilt must be established
beyond reasonable doubt.
b'. That evidence is to be estimated not only by its own
intrinsic weight, but also according to the evidence which
it is in the power of one side to produce, and of the other
to contradict; and, thereforee,
7. That if weaker and less satisfactory evidence is
offered, when it appears that stronger and more satisfac
tory was within the power of the party, the evidence
offered should be viewed with distrust.
Province of jury—questions of fact, sec. 2101 : effect of evidence,
30Cal.l51; 40Cal.272: 48 Cal. 80; 51 Cal. 603; 53 Cal. 414. 625; Hclbingr.
Svealns. Co., Feb. 12th, 1880: 4 Pac. C. L. J. 555; Myers v. Spoouer,
.1 »ly 8th, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 612 : credibility of witnesses, see last sub
head, and 47 Cal. 531.
Province of court—compare sec. 608 and notes, sec. 2102.
Subdivision 2. Majority of witnesses—not decisive, 38 Cal. 57:
§ 2064. A witness, served with a subpoena, must at
tend at the time appointed, with any papers under his
control required by the subpoena, and answer all pertinent
and legal questions ; and, unless sooner discharged, must
remain until the testimony is closed.
Subpena—sees. 1985, 1991.
Answering questions—sec. 2065.
Witnesses—competency, etc., sees. 1878-1884: examination. Impeach
ment, refreshing memory, etc., sees. 2042-2054.
§ 2065. A witness must answer questions legal and
pertinent to the matter in issue, though his answer may
establish a claim against himself; but he need not give an
answer which will have a tendency to subject him to pun
ishment for a felony ; nor need he give an answer which
will have a direct tendency to degrade his character—un
less it be to the very fact in issue, or to a fact from which
the fact in issue would be presumed. But a witness must
answer as to the fact of his previous conviction for felony.
Witness implicating himself—when privileged from answering, 7
Cal. 184; degrading answer. 35 Cal. 89; 39 Cal. 449.
§ 2066. It is the right of a witness to be protected from
irrelevant, improper, or insulting questions, and from
harsh or insulting demeanor; to be detained only so long
as the interests or justice require it; to be examined only
as to matters legal and pertinent to the issue.
Compare—sec. 2044.
Detention of witness—unreasonable, constitutional prohibition of,
see Const. Cal. art. 1, sec. 6.
§ 2067. Every person who has been, in good faith,
served with a subpoena to attend as a witness before a
court, judge, commissioner, referee, or other person, in a
case where the disobedience of the witness may be pun
ished as a contempt, is exonerated from arrest in a civil
action while going to the place of attendance, necessarily
remaining
Exemptionthere
from and
arrest—but
returning
not from
therefrom.
obeying ordinary process, 6
Cal. 32.
§ 2068. The arrest of a witness, contrary to the pre
ceding section, is void, and when willfully made, is a con
tempt of the court; and the person making it is responsible
to the witness arrested for double the amount of the dam
ages which may be assessed against him, and is also lia
ble to an action at the suit of the party serving the witness
with a subpoena, for the damages sustained by him in con
sequence
Contemptofofthe
court—see
arrest. sees. 1209-1222.
§ 2069. An officer is not liable to the party for making
the arrest in ignorance of the facts creating the exonera
tion, but is liable for any subsequent detention of the
party, if such party claim the exemption and make an
affidavit stating—
1. That he has been served with a subpoena to attend as
a witness before a court, officer, or other person, specify
ing the same, the place of attendance, and the action or
proceeding in which the subpoena was issued ; and,
2. That he has not thus been served by his own procure
ment, with the intention of avoiding an arrest;
3. That he is at the time going to the place of attend
ance, or returning therefrom, or remaining there in obe
dience to the subpoena.
The affidavit may be taken by the officer, and exonerates
him from liability for discharging the witness when ar
rested.
§ 2070. The court or officer issuing the subpoena, and
the court or officer before whom the attendance is re
quired, may discharge the witness from an arrest made
in violation of section two thousand and sixty-seven.
If the court have adjourned before the arrest, or before
application for the discharge, a judge of the court may
grant the discharge. [In effect April 10th, 1880.]
§ 2074. An offer in writing to pay a particular sum of
money, or to deliver a written instrument or specific per
sonal property, is, if not accepted, equivalent to the
actual production and tender of the money, instrument,
orOffer
property.
to compromise—sees. 997, 2078.
Tender—alleging, IS Cal. 376; 34 Cal. 616: attorney in fact, by. 1 Cal.
337
Cal. 168;
519; Herman
34 Cal. 666;
41 Cal. 133: sufficiency
of, ;5 49Cal.Cal.339;886:15 effect
Cal. 208:of, 3214 Cal.
v. Haffenegger,
Feb. 12th,
1880, 4 Pac. C. L. J. 559: sureties, by, 26 Cal. 535.
§ 2075. "Whoever pays money, or delivers an instru
ment or property, is entitled to a receipt therefore from
the person to whom the payment or delivery is made,
and may demand a proper signature to such receipt as a
condition of the payment or delivery.
§ 2076. The person to whom a tender is made, must, at
the time, specify any objection he may have to the money,
instrument, or property, or he must be deemed to have
waived it ; and if the objection be to the amount of money,
the terms of the instrument, or the amount or kind of
property, he must specify the amount, terms, or kind
which he requires, or be precluded from objecting after
ward?
§ 2077. The following are the rules for constructing the
descriptive part of a conveyance of real property, when
the construction is doubtful and there are no other suffi
cient circumstances to determine it :
1. Where there are certain definite and ascertained par
ticulars in the description, the addition of others which
are indefinite, unknown, or false, does not frustrate the
conveyance, but it is to be construed by the first men
tioned particulars ;
2. When permanent and visible or ascertained bounda
ries or monuments are inconsistent with the measure
ment, either of lines, angles, or surfaces, the
or monuments are paramount;
3. Between different measurements which are incon
sistent with each other, that of angles is paramount to
that of surfaces, and that of lines paramount to both;
4. When a road, or stream of water not navigable, is the
boundary, the rights of the grantor to the middle of the
road or the thread of* the stream are included in the con
veyance, except where the road or thread of the stream
is held under another title ;
5. When tide-water is the boundary, the rights of the
grantor to ordinary high-water-mark are included in the
conveyance. When a navigable lake, where there is no
tide, is the boundary, the rights of the grantor to lowwater-mark are included in the conveyance;
G. When the description refers to a map, and that ref
erence is inconsistent with other particulars, it controls
them if it appear that the parties acted with reference to
the map; otherwise, the map is subordinate to other defi
nite and ascertained particulars. [In effect July 1st, 1871.]
Description in conveyance—construction of, sec. 1880; 10 Cal. 189;
24 Cal. 439; 25 Cal. 296, 440; 29 Cal. 386; 30 Cal. 468; 34 Cal. 334 : 36 Cal.
122,606; 37 Cal. 432; 39 Cal. 122, 239: 42 Cal. 326; 43 Cal. 171,219; 44 CaL
132;
47 Cal. 474;Sherman
49 Cal. v.59;McCarthy,
50 Cal. 171,March
429; 613rd,
Cal. 125, Pac.
198; 52C. Cal.
500,
679,655.
t. J. 154,
58;
Black
v. Sprapue, March
6th, 1W80, 5 Pac.
C. L. J.1880,92:5 construction
of
instruments, generally, sec. 1859 and note.
Subdivision 1. Definite particulars prevail—10 Cal. 621; 16 Cal.
514; 27 Cal. 67; 34 Cal. 624 ; 36 CaL 125; 41 CaL 263; 44 Cal. 132, 2S7; 45
Cal. 132, 610; 47 Cal. 581 ; 48 CaL 28; 49 Cal. 625; 63 Cal. 589.
Subdivision 2. Boundaries or monuments paramount—10 Cal590; HCal. 197; 12 Cal. 163; 17 Cal. 231; 22 Cal. 496; 26 Cal. 615; 28 CaL 175;
29 Cal. 178, 386 ; 32 Cal. 11,219; 34 Cal. 334 ; 37 Cal. 436; 38 CaL 481; 39 Cal.
612; 43 Cal. 219; 47 Cal. 67; 50 Cal. 376, 429; 52 Cal. 442, 496; 53 Cal. 316;
and see Black v. Sprague, March 6th, 1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 92.
Subdivision 3. Lines and angles prevail—22 Cal. 502.
Subdivision 4. Road or stream as boundary—22 Cal. 484; 25 CaL
122; 42 Cal. 326; 50 Cal. 31; 51 Cal. 195, 425.
Subdivision 6. Reference to map—10 Cal. 589 ; 24 Cal. 435;*38 Cat
448; 47 Cal. 52; 50.C.-U. 321, 333, 421), 450; Black c. Sprague, March 6th,
1880, 5 Pac. C. L. J. 92.
§ 2078. An offer of compromise is not an admission
that
Offeranything
to compromise—after
is due.
suit brought, sec. 997.
§ 2079. In an action for divorce on the ground of
adultery, a confession of adultery, whether in or out of the
pleadings, is not of itself sufficient to justify a judgment
of divorce.
Divorce—generally, sec. 76, subd. 4, note.
Confessions—must be corroborated, 41 Cal. 103 : as evidence I
ally, sec. 1870, subu. 2n.
§ 2083. The testimony of a witness may be taken and
perpetuated as provided in this chapter.
§ 2084. The applicant must produce to a judge of the
Superior Court a petition, verified by the oath of the appli
cant, stating:
1. That the applicant expects to be a party to an action
in a court in this State, and, in such case, the names of
the persons whom he expects will be adverse parties ; or,
2. That the proof of some fact is necessary to perfect
the title to property in which he is interested, or to estab
lish marriage, descent, heirship, or any other matter which
may hereafter become material to establish, though no
suit may at the time be anticipated, or, if anticipated, he
may not know the parties to such suit; and,
3. The name of the witness to be examined, his place of
residence, and a general outline of the facts expected to
be proved. The judge to whom such petition is presented
must make an order allowing the examination, and desig
nating the officer before whom the same must be taken,
and prescribing the notice to be given, which notice, if the
parties expectant are known and reside in this State,
must be personally served, and if unknown, such notice
must be served on the clerk of the county where the prop
erty to be affected by such evidence is situated, or the
judge making the order resides, as may be directed by
him, and by publication thereof in some newspaper, to be
designated by the judge, for the same period required for
the publication of summons. The judge must also desig
nate in his order the clerk of the county to whom the
deposition must be returned when taken. [In effect
April 16th, 1880.]
Code Civ. Fitoc.—54.
§ 2085. The person appointed by the judge to take
the depositions is authorized, if a resident of this Stare
on receiving a copy of the order of the judge, and of the
notice prescribed in the last section, with proof of its per
sonal service or publication—or, if a resident without the
State, on receiving the commission mentioned in the
next section, with proof of like service of publication of
the notice—to take the deposition of the witness named in
the order of the judge, or in the commission, or, if more
than one witness is thus named, of such of them as ap
pear before him, at the time designated, and the taking
of the same may be continued from time to time. [In
effecj July 1st, 1874.]
§ 2086. The examination must be by question and an
swer, and if the testimony is to be taken in another State,
it must be taken upon a commission to be issued by the
judge allowing the examination, under the seal of the
court of which he is judge, and upon interrogatories, to be
settled in the same manner as in cases of depositions
taken under commission in pending actions, unless the
parties expectant, if known, otherwise agree. If such
parties are unknown, notice of the settlement of the in
terrogatories shall be published in some newspaper for
such time as the judge may designate. The deposition,
when completed, must be carefully read to and subscribed
by the witness, then certified by the officer or person tak
ing the same, and shall then be sealed up and delivered 01
transmitted to the clerk of the county designated in the
order of the judge allowing the examination, who shall
file the same when received. The judge allowing the ex
amination shall file with the clerk the order for the exam
ination, the petition on which the same was granted, with
proof of service of the order and notice. [In effect Julv
1st, 1874.]
§ 2087. The petition and order, and papers filed by the
judge a.s provided in section two thousand and eightysix, or a certified copy thereof, are prima facie evidence of
the facts stated therein to show compliance with the pro
visions of this chapter. [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
§ 2088. If a trial be had between the parties named in
the petition as parties expectant, or their successors in
interest, or between any parties wherein it may be mate
rial to establish the facts which such depositions prove, or
tend to prove, upon proof of the death or insanity of the
witnesses, or that they cannot be found, or are unable, by
reason of age or other infirmity, to give their testimony,
-fcXie depositions or copies thereof maybe used by either
^>arty, subject to all legal objections; but if the parties
£t,~ttended at the examination, no objection to the form of
a.XL interrogatory . can be made at the trial, unless the
same was stated at the examination. [In effect July 1st,
3.S74.]
•'§ 2089. The deposition so taken and read in evidence
la as the same effect as the oral testimony of the ■witness,
and no other, and every objection to the witness or to the
i-elevancy of any question put to him, or of any answer
^jiven by him, may be made in the same manner as if he
were examined orally at the trial.
§ 2093. Every court, every judge or clerk of any court,
every justice and every notary public, and every officer
or person authorized to take testimony in any action or
proceeding, or to decide upon evidence, has power to ad
minister oaths or affirmations.
§ 2094. An oath, or affirmation, in an action or pro
ceeding, may be administered as follows, the person who
swears, or affirms, expressing his assent when addressed
in the following form: "You do solemnly swear (or af
firm, as the case may be) that the evidence you shall give
in this issue, (or matter) pending between
and, truth, and nothing but the
truth, so help you God." [In effect July 1st, 1874.]
§ 2095. "Whenever the court before which a person is
offered as a witness is satisfied that he has a peculiar
mode of swearing, connected with, or in addition to the
usual form of administration, which, in his opinion, is
more solemn or obligatory, the court may in its discre
tion, adopt that mode.
§ 2096. When a person is sworn who believes in any
other than the christian religion, he may be sworn accord
ing to the peculiar ceremonies of his religion, if there be
any such.
§ 2097. Any person who desires it may, at his option,
instead of taking an oath, make his solemn affirmation or
declaration, by assenting, when addressed in the follow
etc.,
ing form:
as in section
"You two
do solemnly
thousand affirm
and ninety-four.
(or declare) that," •
§ 2101. All questions of fact, ■where the trial ia by
jury, other than those mentioned in the next section, are
to be decided by the jury, and all evidence thereon is to
t>e addressed to them, except when otherwise provided
byCompare—sec.
this Code. 2061.
[In effect July 1st, 1874.]
Questions of fact, for jury-4 Cal. 260; 9 Cal. 565; 18 Cal. 376 ; 25 Cal.
197; 30Ah
Cal.Ngow,
215; 32Feb.
Cal.10th,
213; 1880,
34 Cal.
663;C.and
Cal. 315;v. People
"Wong
4 Pac.
L. J.see652;52 People
Mitchell,v.
Mayandnote:
29th, 1880,fraudulent
5 Pac. C. L.intent,
J. 473Civil
: effect
evidence,
2061
Code,of sec.
3442; 50forCal.jury,
137, sec.
140;
negligence, as to, 50 Cal. 578,581; 52 Cal. 45: nuisance, 29 Cal. 156; 30 Cal.
379; 45 Cal. 55: presumptions of fact, 51 Cal. 588.
§2102. All questions of law, including the admissity of testimony, the facts preliminary to such admis
sion, and the construction of statutes and other writings,
and other rules of evidence, are to be decided by the
court, and all discussions of law addressed to it. When
ever the knowledge of the court is, by this Code, made
evidence of a fact, the court is to declare such knowledge
to the jury, who are bound to accept it.
Province of court—questions of law, 6 Cal. 119 ; 15 Cal. 27, 367 ; 24 Cal.
268; 30 Cal. 648; 36 Cal. 462; 44 Cal. 145; 45 Cal. 255; 49 Cal. 253 : 52 Cal.
244; admissibility of evidence, etc., 4 Cal. 105; 23 Cal. 339; 47 Cal. 194; 49
Cal. 56: construction of writings, 39 Cal. 523 ; 50 Cal. 32.
Knowledge of the court—scope of judicial notice, sec. 1875 and notes.
§ 2103. The provisions contained in this part of the
Code respecting the evidence on a trial before a jury, are
equally applicable on the trial of a question of fact before
a court, referee, or other officer.
§ 2104. Whenever monies are paid into or deposited
in court, the same shall be delivered to the clerk in per
son, or to such of his deputies as shall be specially' author
ized by his appointment in writing to receive the same.
He must, unless otherwise directed by law, deposit it
with the county treasurer, to he held by him subject to
the order of the court. The treasurer shall keep each
fund distiuct, and open an account with each. Such ap
pointment shall be filed with the county treasurer, 'who
shall exhibit it, and give to each person applying for the
same a certified copy of the same. It shall be in force
until a revocation in writing is filed with the county
treasurer, who shall thereupon write "revoked," in iniV
across the face of the appointment. [In effect July 1st,
1874.]
Deposit in court—sees. 572-574 ; corresponding provision, sec. 573.
Deposit with county treasurer—liable to taxation, 30 CaL 242.
Final repealing clause—compare, sees. 9, 18.
§ 1. Every insolvent debtor may, upon compliance
with the provisions of this act, be discharged from his
be
debts
cited
andasliabilities.
the Insolvent
This Act
act of
shall
eighteen
be known
hundred
and may
and
eighty.
Strict construction—7 Cal. 438; 9 CaL 478; 31 CaL 167.
Insolvency decisions—sec. 1822n.
Repealing clause—sec. 68.
Suspension—of State insolvent laws by Federal Bankrupt Law,
Boedfleld
v. Bead, July 20th, 1880; Lewis v. Santa Clara County Court,
￼3rd, 1880.
§ 2. An insolvent debtor, owing debts exceeding in
amount the sum of three hundred dollars, may apply by
petition to the Superior Court of the county, or city and
county, iu which he has resided for six months next pre
ceding the fiMng of his petition, to be discharged from his
debts and liabilities. In his petition he shall set forth his
place of residence, his inability to pay all his debts in
full, his willingness to surrender all his estate and effects
for the benefit of his creditors, and his desire to obtain a
discharge from his debts and liabilities, and shall annex
thereto a schedule and inventory, and valuation, in com
pliance with the provisions of this act. The riling of such
petition shall be an act of insolvency, and thereupon
such petitioner shall be adjudged an insolvent debtor.
Petition—requisites, 8 Cal. 44; 19 Cal. 162: 32 Cal. 406; and see next
note : amendment, sec. 8» ; 22 Cal. 38 : objections, raising, sec. 50».
Residence—six months In county, averring In petition, 10 Cal. 483;
[6451
Superior Court—jurisdiction of proceedings in insolvency, Code
Civ. Proc. sec 76, subd. 4.
§ 3. Said schedule must contain a full and true state
ment of all his debts and liabilities, exhibiting to the best
of his knowledge and belief to whom said debts or liabil
ities are due, the place of residence of his creditors, and
the sum due to each; the nature of the indebtedness or
demand, whether founded on written security, obligation,
contract, or otherwise ; the true cause and consideration,
thereof, and the time and place when and where said in
debtedness accrued, and a statement of any existing
pledge, lien, mortgage, judgment, or other security for
the payment of the same.
Schedule—contents of, 10 Cal. 418, 483; 14 Cal. 173; 19 Cal. 162: 33 Cal.
630: objections to, sec. 60n; 22CaL88; 31 Cal. 328 ; 32 Cal. 406; 34CaL92.
§ 4. Said inventory must contain an accurate descrip
tion of all the estate, both real and personal, of the peti
tioner, including his homestead, if any, and all property
exempt by law from execution, and where the same is
situated,
Inventory—see
and all
Schedule,
encumbrances
sec. 3n. thereon.
§ 5. The petition, schedule, and inventory must be
verified by the affidavit of the petitioner annexed thereto,
and shall be in form substantially as follows: I,
, do
solemnly swear that the schedule and inventory now de
livered by me contain a full, perfect, and true discovery
of all the estate, real, personal, and mixed, goods and
effects to me in any way belonging; all such debts as are
to me owing, or to any person or persons in trust for me,
and all securities and contracts, and contracts whereby
any money may hereafter become payable, or any benefit
or advantage accrue to mo or to my use, or to any other
person or persons in trust for me; that I have no lands,
money, stock, or estate, reversion or expectancy, besides
that set forth in my schedule and inventory; that I have,
in no instance, created or acknowledged a debt for a
greater sum than I honestly and truly owe; that I have
not, directly or indirectly, sold, or otherwise disposed of,
or concealed any part of my property, effects, or con
tracts ; that I have not in any way compounded with my
creditors whereby to secure the same, or to receive, or to
expect any profit or advantage therefrom, or to defraud
or deceive any creditor to whom I am indebted in any
manner. So help me God.
Signature—to petition and schedule, 19 Cal. 162; 32 Cal. 406.
§ 6. Upon receiving and filing such petition, schedule,
and inventory, the court shall make' an order declaring
tlie petitioner insolvent, and directing the sheriff of the
county to take possession of all the estate, real and per
sonal, of the debtor, except such as may be by law ex
empt from execution, and of all his deeds, vouchers, books
of account, and papers, and to keep the same safely until
the appointment of an assignee. Said order shall further
forbid the payment of any debts and the delivery of any
property belonging to such debtor, to him, or for his use,
and the transter of any property by him; and shall fur
ther appoint a time and place for a meeting of the cred
itors, to prove their debts and choose one or more as
signees of the estate, which shall not be less than thirty
days after the making of said order, and shall designate
apublication
newspaper
orproceedings
newspapers
ofmade.
general
circulation
in which
said
order, all
thereof
shall beagainst
the
Upon
said the
insolvent
granting
shall
of •
"be stayed.
Deposit of books, etc.—sec. 22.
Not less than thirty days—notice of creditors' meeting, 34 Cal. 167;
Wilson v. His Creditors, July 6th, 1880, 5 Pac. O. L. J. 662.
Order staying proceedings—operates fromdate, 14 Cal.47: enfowe.
ment of, Bandy v. Bansome, Jan. 19th, 1880, 4 Fac. C. L. J. 537.
Combining proceedings — under this section, and issuing from
chambers, 36 Cal. 24.
§ 7. A copy of said order shall immediately be pub
lished by the clerk of said court, in the newspaper or
newspapers designated therein, as often as the newspaper
is printed before the meeting of creditors, and be served
by the clerk forthwith by United States mail, postage pre
paid, or personally, on all creditors named in the sched
ule. The order of adjudication shall direct the publica
tion thereof in a newspaper published in the county, or
city and county, in which the petition is filed, if there be
one, and if there be none, in a newspaper published near
est to such county, or city and county ; provided, that no
order of adjudication upon creditors' petition shall be en
tered, unless there first be deposited with the clerk, in
addition to the usual cost of commencing said proceed
ings, a sum of money sufficient to defray the cost of the
publication ordered by the court, and ten cents for each
copy, to be mailed to or served on the creditors, which
latter sum is hereby constituted the legal fee of the clerk
for the mailing or service required in this section.
Publication of notice to creditors—Jurisdictional Importance, 19
Cal. 162; 22 Cal. 38; 31 Cal. 168: proof of, 31 Cal. 201; 33 Cal. 530: and
compare as to summons. Code Civ. Froc. sec. 414, subd. 3, note.
Service by mail—compare as to deposit of summons, Code Civ.
Proc. sec. 413; 9 Cal. 616; 33 Cal. SOS.
Personal service—compare as to summons, Code Civ. Proc.
410,411.
§ 8. An adjudication of insolvency may be made o
the petition of five or more creditors, residents of tfaf"
State, whose debts or demands accrued in this State, an
amount in the aggregate to not less than five hundred,
dollars; provided, that said creditors, or either of the1
have not become creditors by assignment within thirty. _
days prior to the filing of said petition. Such petition
must be filed in the Superior Court of the county, or city
and county, in which the debtor resides or has his place
of business, and must be verified by at least three of the
petitioners, setting forth that such person is about to de
part from the State, with intent to defraud his creditors ,or being absent from the State with such intent, re
mains absent; or conceals himself to avoid the service
of legal process; or conceals, or is removing any of his
property to avoid its being attached or taken on legal
process ; or being insolvent, has suffered his property to
remain under attachment, or legal process, for four days ;
or has confessed, or offered to allow judgment in favor of
any creditors; or willfully suffered judgment to be taken
against him by default; or has suffered, or procured his
property to be taken on legal process, with intent to give
a preference to one or more of his creditors; or has made
any assignment, gift, sale, conveyance, or transfer of his
estate, property, rights, or credits, with intent to delay,
defraud, or hinder his creditors; or in contemplation of
insolvency, has made any payment, gift, grant, sale, con
veyance, or transfer of his estate, property, rights, or
credits; or has been arrested and held in custody by vir
tue of any civil process of court founded on any debt or
demand, and such process remains in force, and not dis
charged by payment, or otherwise, for a period of four
days; or being a merchant or tradesman, has stopped or
suspended, and not resumed payment within a period of
forty days after maturity of any written acknowledg
ment of indebtedness, unless the party holding such ac
knowledgment has, in writing, waived the right to pro
ceed under this subdivision ; or being a bank, or banker,
agent, broker, factor, or commission merchant, has failed
for forty days to pay any monies deposited with or re;i-ved Toy him in a fiduciary capacity, upon demand of
ons,
lyment,
ositors
who
onexcepting
loan
real the
estate,
money
savings
and ofprovide
and
theirloan
stockholders
inbanks,
their by-laws
or associaand defor
le
of such
Thethepetitioners
■omrepayment
time to time,
amenddeposits.
and correct
petition, somay,
that
a© same shall conform to the facts, by leave of the court
efore which the proceedings are pending, but nothing in
tiis section shall be construed to invalidate any loan of
ctual value, or the security therefore, made in good faith
pon a security taken in good faith on the occasion of the
daking of such loan; the said petition shall be accompaLied by a bond with two sureties in the penal sum of at
east five hundred dollars, conditioned that if the debtor
liould not be declared an insolvent, the petitioners will
>ay all costs and damages, including a reasonable attor
ney's fee, that the debtor may sustain by reason of the fil
ing of said petition. The court may, upon motion, direct
;he filing of an additional bond with different sureties
when deemed necessary.
Intent to defraud his creditors—see sec. 55, notes.
Conceals
himself—to
avoid
of process,
compare
to pub
lication
of summons,
Code
Civ.service
Proc. sec.
412; 6 Cal.
201; 12asCaL
283;
26 Cal. 149.
Fiduciary capacity—see 8 Cal. 619.
Amended petition—compare Code Civ. Proc. sec. 473 and notes.
Bond—compare Undertaking, generally, Code Civ. Proc.
sec. 941».
§ 9. Upon the filing of such creditors' petition, the
court shall issue an order requiring such debtor to show
cause, at a time and place to be fixed by said court,
why he should not be adjudged an insolvent debtor, and
at the same time, or thereafter, upon good cause shown
therefore, said court may make an order forbidding the
payment of any debts, and the delivery of any property
belongingto such debtor to him or for his use, or the trans
fer of any property by him.
Order forbidding payment, etc.—see sec. 6: Injunction generally,
compare Code Civ. Proc. sec. 525 et seq.
§ 10. A copy of said petition, with a copy of the or
der to show cause, shall be served on the debtor, in the
same manner as is provided by law for the service of sum
mons in civil actions, but such service shall be made at
least ten days before the time fixed for the hearing; pro
vided, that if, for any reason, the service is not made, the
order may be renewed, and the time and place of hearing
changed ; or by a supplemental order by the court, or if
Code Civ. Peoc—S5.
such debtor cannot be found, or his place of abode ascer
tained, service shall be made by publication as is pro
vided in the Code of Civil Procedure for service of sum
mons by publication.
Service of summons—In civil actions. Code Civ. Proc. sec. 411 anJ
notes.
Publication of summons—Code Civ. Proc. sees. 412, 413 and notes
§ 11. At the time fixed for the hearing of said order to
show cause, or such other time as it may be adjourned to,
the debtor may demur to the petition for the same causes
as is provided for demurrer in other cases by the Code of
Civil Procedure. If the demurrer be overruled, the debtor
shall have ten days thereafter in which to answer the peti
tion. If the debtor answer the petition, such answer
shall contain a specific denial of the material allegations
of the petition controverted by him, and shall be verified
in the same manner as pleadings in civil actions; ami
the issues raised thereon may be tried with or without a
jury, according to the practice provided by law for the
trial of civil actions.
Demurrer—Code Civ. Proc. sec. 430 and notes.
Answer after demurrer—overruled, compare Code Clr. Proc. sec.
472 and note.
Contents of answer—compare Code Civ. Proc. sec. 437 and notes.
Verification of pleadings—Code Civ. Proc. sec. 446 and notes.
Trial of civil actions—Code Civ. Proc. sees. 588-661.
§ 12. If the respondent shall make default, or if, after
a trial, the issues are found in favor of the petitioners,
the court shall make an orderadjudging that said respond
ent is, and was at the time of filing the petition, an in
solvent debtor, and shall require said debtor, within such
time as the court may designate, to file in court the sched
ule and inventory provided for in sections three and four
of this act ; and thereupon all proceedings shall be had
iu said matter in the same manner as if said debtor had
volutarily -filed his petition.
§ 13. If, upon such hearing or trial, the issues are
found in favor of the respondent, the proceedings shall
be dismissed, and the respondent shall recover costs from
the petitioning creditors in the same manner as on final
judgment
Costs—In civil
in civil
actions,
actions.
Code Civ. Proc. sec. 1021 et seq. .
§ 14. If the debtor has failed to appear after service,
personally or by publication, or is absent, or cannot be
iound, the schedule and inventory may be prepared by
the sheriff, or by the assignee, from the best information
tie can obtain.
§ 15. At a meeting of the creditors, in open court,
those having proven their claims, by filing a verified state
ment showing the amount, nature, and security, if any,
shall proceed to the election of oue assignee. The assignee
shall be a resident of the county where the insolvent
resides, or where he has carried on his business. In elect
ing an assignee, the opinion of the majority in amount of
claims shall prevail. The clerk of the court shall keep a
minute of the deliberations of said creditors, and of the
election and appointment of an assignee, and enter the
same upon the records of the court. The assignee shall
rile, within five days, unless the time be extended by the
court, with the clerk, a bond, in an amount to be fixed by
the court, to the State of California, with two or more
sufficient sureties, approved by the court, and conditioned
for the faithful performance of the duties devolving upon
him. The bond shall not be void upon the first recovery,
hut may be sued upon from time to time by any creditor
aggrieved, in his own name, until the whole penalty is ex
hausted. The sureties on such bond may be required to
justify, upon the application of any party interested, in
the same manner as bail upon arrest in civil cases.
Residence—sec. 2».
Bond—see sec. 8n: successive suits on, compare Code Civ. Proc. sec.
1392.
Justification of bail npon arrest—Code Civ. Proc. sees. 493-196.
§ 16. If, on the day appointed for the meeting, the
creditors do not attend, or refuse to elect an assignee; or
if, after election, the assignee shall fail to qualify within
the proper time, it shall be lawful for the court before
which the said meeting may take place, to appoint an
assignee and fix the amount of his bond.
Title of assignee—when vests, 14 Cal. 47; 39 Cal. 137; 48 Cal. 201.
Estate conveyed by assignment—toll franchise does not pass, 41
Cal. 507.
Exempt from execution—Code Civ. Proc. sec. 690 and notes.
§ 17. As soon as an assignee is appointed and quali
fied, the clerk of the court shall, by an instrument under
his hand, and seal of the court, assign and convey to the
assignee all the estate, real and personal, of the debtor,
with all his deeds, books, and papers relating thereto, an!
such assignment shall relate back to the commencemen:
of the proceedings in insolvency, and by operation of la*
shall vest the title to all such property and estate, both
real and personal, in the assignee, although the same is
then attached on mesne process, as the property of tie
debtor, and shall dissolve any attachment made within
one month next preceding the commencement of the in
solvency proceedings. Such assignment shall operate to
vest in the assignee all the estate of the insolvent debtor
not exempt by law from execution.
Assignee prosecuting action—see sec. 21, subd. 1: substitution foi
insolvent, compare Code Civ. Proc. sec. 385.
Conclusive evidence—see Code Civ. Proc. sec. 1837.
§ 18. The assignee shall have the right to recover all
the estate, debts, and effects of said insolvent. If, at the
time of the commencement of proceedings in insolvency,
an action is pending in the name of the debtor, for the
recovery of a debt or other thing which might or ought t<
pass to the assignee by the assignment, the assignee shall
be allowed and admitted to prosecute the action, in like
manner and with like effect as if it had been originally
commenced by him. In suits prosecuted by the assignee,
a certified copy of the assignment made to him shall be
conclusive evidence of his authority to sue.
Certified copy—of assignment, compare Code Civ. Proc. sees. 1919,
1923.
Conclusive evidence—sec. 17n.
4
§ 19. The assignee shall, within one month after the
making of the assignment to him, cause the same to be re
corded in every county, or city and county, within this
State where any lands owned by the debtor are situated,
and the record of such assignment, or a duly certified copy
thereof, shall be conclusive evidence thereof in all courts.
Resignation of assignee—compare Code Civ. Proc. sec. 1427.
§ 20. Any assignee may at any time, by writing filed
in court, resign his appointment, having first settled his
accounts, and delivered up all the estate to such suc
cessor as the court shall appoint ; provided, that if, in the
discretion of the court, the circumstances of the case re
quire it, upon good cause being shown, the court may, at
auy time before such settlement of account and delivery
of the estate shall have been completed, revoke the ap
pointment of such assignee and appoint another in lus
stead. The liability of the outgoing assignee, or of the
sureties on his bond, shall not be in any manner discharged, released, or affected by such appointment of
another in his stead.
§
1. 21.
To sue
Theinsaid
hisassignee
own name
shalland
have
recover
power:all the estate,
cle-bts, and things in action, belonging or due to such
elector, and no set-off or counterclaim shall be allowed in
any such suit, for any debt, unless it was owing to such
creditor by such debtor at the time of the adjudication of
insolvency;
2. To take into his possession all the estate of such
debtor except property exempt by law from execution,
whether attached or delivered to him, or afterward dis
covered, and all books, vouchers, evidence of indebted
ness, and securities belonging to the same ;
3. In case of a non-resident absconding or concealed
debtor, to demand and receive of every sheriff who shall
have attached any of the property of such debtor, or
who shall have in his possession any monies arising from
the sale of such property, all such property and monies,
on paying him his lawful costs and charges for attach
ing and keeping the same;
4; From time to time to sell at public auction all the
estate, real and personal, vested in him as such assignee,
which shall come to his possession and as ordered by the
court;
5. On such sales to execute the necessary conveyances
and bills of sale;
6. To redeem all valid mortgages and conditional con
tracts, and all valid pledges of personal property, and to
satisfy any judgments which may bo an encumbrance on
any property sold by him, or to sell such property subject
to such mortgage, contracts, pledges, or judgments.
7. To settle all matters and accounts between such
debtor and his debtors, subject to the approval of the
court ;
8. Underthe order of the court appointing him, to com
pound with any person indebted to such debtor, and
thereupon to discharge all demands against such person;
9. To have and recover from any person receiving a con
veyance, gift, transfer, payment, or assignment, made
contrary to any provision of this act, the property there
by transferred or assigned, or in case a redelivery of the
property cannot be had, to recover the value thereof,
with damages for the detention.
POWERS OF ASSIGNEE.
Subdivision 1. Sue in his own name, etc.—Bee sec. 18. Counter
claim—see Code Civ. Proc. sec. 438 and notes.
Subdivision 2. Exemptions—see Code Civ. Proc. sec. 690n. At
tachment—see Code Civ. Proc. 637 et seq. Books, etc.—sheriff's pre
vious control, sec. 6: deposited with clerk, sec. 22.
Subdivision 3. Attachment—see Code Civ. Proc. 537-559 and notes.
Subdivision 4. Sale of property—by assignee, sees. 25-27.
sec.Subdivision
675 and note.6. Satisfaction of judgment—see Code Civ. Proc.
Subdivision 8. Compound with debtor—compare as to executor,
etc., Code Civ. Proc. sec. 1588: accord and satisfaction, see Civil Code,
sees. 1521-1524.
Subdivision
55. Claim
and de
livery—see
Code 9.Civ.Fraudulent
Proc. sec. 509transfers—sec.
et seq. Damages
for detentionsee under Replevin Judgment, Code Civ. Proc. sec. 667».
§ 22. The insolvent shall, either before or on the day
appointed for the meeting of creditors, deliver to the court
all the commercial or account books he may have kept,
which books shall be deposited in the clerk's office of
said court. Said insolvent shall also deliver to the court,
at the same time, all vouchers, notes, bonds, bills, securi
ties, or other evidences of debt, in any manner relating to
or having any bearing upon or connection with the prop
erty surrendered by said debtor, and all such papers or
securities shall be deposited in the clerk's office of said
court, and the clerk shall hand them over, together with
the books of the insolvent, to the assignee who may be
appointed.
toBooks,
deposit,vouchers,
19 Cal. 691;etc—see
31 Cal. 201.
sees. 6 and 21, snbd. 2: effect of failure
§ 23. If any person, before the assignment is made,
having notice of the commencement of proceedings in in
solvency, embezzles or disposes of any of the monies,
goods, chattels, or effects of the insolvent, he is chargea
ble therewith, and liable to an action by the assignee for
double the value of the property so embezzled or disposed
of, to be recovered for the benefit of the estate.
Embezzlement of property of estate — compare Code Civ. Proc.
sec. 1458 and notes.
§ 24. The same penalties, forfeitures, and proceedings
by citation, examination, and commitment, shall apply on
behalf of an assignee against persons suspected of having
concealed, embezzled, conveyed away, or disposed of any
property of the debtor, or of having possession or knowl
edge of any deeds, conveyances, bonds, contracts, or oth
er writings which relate to any interest of the debtor in
any real or personal estate, as provided in the case of the
estates of deceased persons in sections one thousand four
hundred and fifty-nine, one thousand four hundred and
sixty, and one thousand four hundred and sixty-one of
the Code of Civil Procedure.
§ 25. The assignee shall as speedily as possible convert
the estate, real and personal, into money. He shall keep
a regular account of all monies received by him as as
signee, to which every creditor or other person interested
therein may, at all reasonable times, have access. No
private sale of any property of the estate of an insolvent
dehtor shall be valid, unless made under the order of the
court upon a petition in writing, which shall set forth the
facts showing the sale to be necessary. Upon filing the
petition, notice of at least ten days shall be given by pub
lication and mailing, in the same manner as is provided
in section seven of this act. If it appears that a private
sale is for the best interests of the estate, the court shall
order it to be made.
Private sale—on petition and order, compare Code Civ. Proc. sees.
1517, 1513 and notes.
§ 26. When it appears to the satisfaction of the court
that the estate of the debtor; or any part thereof, is of a
perishable nature, or is liable to deteriorate in value, or is
disproportionately expensive to keep, the court may order
the same to be sold in such manner as may be deemed
most expedient, under the direction of the sheriff or as
signee, as the case may be, who shall hold the funds re
ceived in place of the property sold until the further order
of the court.
Sale of perishable or depreciating property—compare Code Civ.
Proc. sec. 1522.
§ 27. Outstanding debts, or other property due or be
longing to the estate, which cannot be collected and re
ceived Dy the assignee without unreasonable or inconven
ient delay or expense, may be sold and assigned in like
manner
the remainder
the estate.
§ 28. as
Assignees
shall beofallowed
all■» necessary expens
es in the care, management, and settlement of the estate,
and shall collectively be entitled to charge and receive
for their services commissions upon all sums of money
coming to their hands and accounted for by them, as fol
lows : For the first thousand dollars, at the rate of seven
percent.; for all above that sum and not exceeding ten
thousand dollars, at the rate of five per cent. ; and for all
above
Assignee's
that sum,
fees—compare
at the rate
CodeofCiv.four
Proc.per
sees.
cent.
1616, 1618 and notes.
§ 29. At the expiration of three months from the ap
pointment of the assignee in any case, or as much earlier
as the court may direct, the assignee shall exhibit to the
court and to the creditors, and file just and true account of all his receipts and payments verified by his oath, and
a statement of the property outstanding, specifying the
cause of its outstanding, also what debts or claims artyet undetermined, and stating what sum remains in his
possession ; and thereupon a dividend shall be made, un
less for cause the court shall otherwise order. Thereafter
further accounts, statements, and dividends shall be made
in like manner as often as occasion requires.
Accounts—compare as to executors, etc., Code Civ. Proc sec. IK:
el aeq.
§ 30. The court shall at any time, upon the motion of
any two or more creditors, require the assignee to file his
account, and if he has funds subject to distribution he
shall be required to distribute them without delay.
§ 31. All creditors whose debts are duly proved and
allowed shall be entitled to share in the property and es
tate pro rata without priority or preference whatever,
other than as provided in this act, and in section one
thousand two hundred and four of the Code of Civil Pro
cedure; provided, that any debt proved by any person
liable as bail, surety, guarantor, or otherwise, for the debt
or, shall not be paid to the person so proving the same
until satisfactory evidence shall be produced of the pay
ment of such debt by such person so liable; and the
share to which such debt would be entitled may be paid
into court, or otherwise held for the benefit of the party
entitled thereto, as the court may direct.
Preferred claims for wages—Code Civ. Proc. sec. 1204.
Payment into court—see Code Civ. Proc. sees. 572-574, 2104.
§ 32. No dividend already declared shall be distribut
ed by reason of debts being subsequently proved, but the
creditors proving such debts shall be entitled to a divi
dend equal to those already received by the other credit
ors, before any further dividend is made to the latter;
provided, the failure to prove such claim shall not have re
sulted from his own neglect.
§ 33. Should the assignee refuse or neglect to render
his accounts as required by sections thirty and thirty-one,
or pay over a dividend when he shall have, in the opinion
of the court, sufficient funds for that purpose, the court
shall immediately discharge such assignee from his trust,
and shall have power to appoint another in his place.
The assignee so discharged shall forthwith deliver over to
the assignee appointed l>y the court all the funds, prop
erty, books, vouchers, or securities belonging to the in
solvent, without charging or retaining any commission or
compensation for his personal services.
§ 34. Preparatory to the final account and dividend the
assignee shall submit his account to the court and file the
same, and shall at the time of filing accompany the same
with an affidavit that notice by mail has been given to all
creditors who have proved their claims, that Tie will ap
ply for a settlement of his account, and for a discharge
from all liability as assignee at a time specified in such
notice, which time shall be not less than ten or more than
twenty days from such filing. At the hearing, the court
shall audit the account, and any person interested may
appear and file exceptions in writing, and contest the
same. The court thereupon sh,all settle the account and
order a dividend of any portion of the estate remaining
undistributed, and shall discharge the assignee, subject
to compliance with the order of the court, from all liabil
ity as assignee to any creditor of the insolvent.
Final account—notice, contest, settlement: compare as to executor,
etc., Code Civ. Proc. sees. 1633-1638.
ARTICLE V.
PARTNERSHIPS AND CORPORATIONS.
§ 35. Two or more persons who are partners inbusiness
may be adjudged insolvent, either on the petition of such
partners or any one of them, or on the petition of five or
more creditors of the partnership, in which case an order
shall be issued in the manner provided by this act, upon
which all the joint stock and property of the partner
ship, and also all the separate estate of each of the part
ners, shall be taken, excepting such parts thereof as may
be exemptby law, and all the creditors of the company, ana
the separate creditors of each partner, shall be allowed
to prove their respective debts ; and the assignee shall be
chosen by the creditors of the copartnership, and shall also
keep separate accounts of the joint stock or property of
the copartnership, and of the separate estate of each
member thereof, and, after deducting out of the whole
amount received by such assignee, the whole amount of
the expenses and disbursements, the net proceeds of the
joint stock shall be appropriated to pay the creditors of the
copartnership, and the net proceeds of the separate estate
of each partner shall be appropriated to pay his separate
creditors; and if there shall be any balance of the sepa
rate estate of any partner, after the payment of his sepa
rate debts, such balance shall be added to the joint stock
for the payment of the joint creditors ; and if there shall
be any Dalance of the joint stock, after the payment of
the joint debts, such balance shall be divided and appro
priated to and among the separate estate of the several
partners according to their respective right and interest
therein, and as it would have been if the partnership had
been dissolved without any insolvency ; and the sum so
appropriated to the separate estato ot each partner shall
be applied to the payment of his separate debts, and the
certificate of discharge shall be granted or refused to each
partner as the same would or ought to be if the proceed
ings had been by or against him alone under this act;
and in all other respects the proceedings as to partners
shall be conducted in tho like manner as if they had been
commenced and prosecuted by or against one person
alone. If such copartners reside in different counties,
that court in which the petition is first filed shall retain
exclusive jurisdiction over the case. If the petition be
filed by less than all the partners of a copartnership, those
partners who do not join in the petition shall be ordered
to show cause why they should not be adjudged to be in
solvent, in the same manner as other debtors are required
to show cause upon a creditor's petition, as in this act
provided.
Before this enactment—partners could not be adjudged insolvent.
5 Cal. 195; 8 Cal. 44; Creditors t>. Huston. July 21st, 1SSU: pursuit of
Arm property, Cal. F. Co. v. Halsey, March 15th, 1S80, 5 Pac. C. I* J. 
§ 36. The provisions of this act shall apply to corpo
rations, and upon the petition of any officer of any corpo
ration, duly authorized by the vote of the board of direct
ors or trustees, at a meeting specially called for that
purpose, or by the assent in writing of a majority of the
directors or trustees, as the case may be, or upon a
creditor's petition made and presented in the manner pro
vided in respect to debtors, the like proceedings shall be
had and taken as are provided in the case of debtors.
All the provisions of this act, which apply to the debtor,
or set forth his duties, examination, and liabilities, or
prescribe penalties, or relate to fraudulent conveyances,
payments, and assignments, apply to each and every
officer of any corporation in relation to the same matters
concerning the corporation. Whenever any corporation
is declared insolvent, all its property and assets shall be
distributed to the creditors; but no discharge shall be
granted to any corporation.
. Corporations—see Civil Code, sees. 283-648.
§ 37. All debts due and payable from the debtor at
the time of the adjudication of insolvency, and all debts
then existing but not payable until a future time, a re
bate of interest being made when no interest is payable
by the terms of the contract, may be proved against the
estate of the debtor.
§ 38. All demands against the debtor for or on account
of any goods or chattels 'wrongfully taken, converted, or
withheld by him, may be proved and allowed as debts to
the amount of the value of the property so withheld,
from the time of the conversion.
§ 39. If the debtor shall be bound as indorser, surety,
bail, or guarantor, upon any bill, bond, note, or other
specialty or contract, or for any debt of another person,
and his liability shall not have become absolute until the
adjudication of insolvency, the creditor may prove the
same after such liability shall have become fixed, and
before the final dividend shall have been declared.
§ 40. In all cases of contingent debts, and contingent
liabilities contracted by the debtor, «and not herein other
wise provided for, the creditor may make claim therefore
and have his claim allowed, with the right to share in the
dividends if the contingency shall happen before the
order for the final dividend, or he may, at any time, apply
to the court to have the present value of the debt or
liability ascertained and liquidated, which shall be done
in such manner as the court 'shall order, and shall be
allowed to prove for the amount so ascertained.
§ 41. Any person liable as bail, surety, or guarantor,
or otherwise, for the debtor who shall have paid the debt,
or any part thereof, in discharge of the whole, shall be
entitled to prove such debt, or to stand in the place of the
creditor, if he shall have proved the same, although such
payments shall have been made after the proceedings in
insolvency were commenced; and any person so liable
for the debtor, and who has not paid the whole of said
debt bnt is still liable for the same, or any part thereof,
may, if the creditor shall fail or omit to prove such debt,
prove the same in the name of the creditor.
Surety's claim for contribution—see Code Civ. Proc. sec. 709.
§ 42. "Where the debtor is liable to pay rent, or other
debt falling due at fixed and stated periods, the creditor
may prove for a proportionate part thereof up to the time
of the insolvency, as if the same became due from day to
day, and not at such fixed and stated periods.
§ 43. In all cases of mutual debts and mutual credits
between the parties, the account between them shall be
stated, and one debt set off against the other, and the
balance only shall be allowed and paid. But no set-off or
counterclaim shall be allowed of a claim in its nature not
provable against the estate; provided, that no set-off or
counterclaim shall be allowed in favor of any debtor to
the insolvent of a claim purchased by or transferred to
him after the riling of the petition by or against him, for
the purpose of making such set-off or counterclaim.
Counter-claim—sec. 21, subd. In.
§ 44. When a creditor has a mortgage, or pledge of
real or personal property of the debtor, or a lien thereon,
for securing the payment of a debt owing to him from the
debtor, he shall be admitted as a creditor only for the
balance of the debt, after deducting the value of such
property, to be ascertained by agreement between him
and the assignee, or by a sale thereof, to be made in such
manner as the court shall direct; or the creditor may re
lease or convey his claim to the assignee, upon such prop
erty, and be admitted to prove his whole debt. If the
value of the property exceeds the sum for which it is so
held as security, the assignee may release to the creditor
the debtor's right of redemption thereon on receiving
such excess; or he may sell the property, subject to the
claim of the creditor thereon, and in either case the as
signee and creditor respectively shall execute all deeds
and writings necessary or proper to consummate the
transaction. If the property is not sold or released, and
delivered up, the creditor shall not be allowed to prove
any part of nis debt.
Incumbered property—power of assignee over, sec. 21, subd. 6.
§ 45. No creditor proving his debt or claim shall be al
lowed to maintain any suit at law or in equity therefore
against the debtor, but shall be deemed to have waived
all right of action and suit against him, and all proceed
ings already commenced, or unsatisfied judgments al
ready obtained thereon, shall be deemed to be discharged
and surrendered thereby; provided, that no valid lien ex
isting in good faith thereunder shall be thereby affected ;
and further provided, that a creditor proving his debt or
claim shall not be held t6 have waived his right of action
or suit against the debtor where a discharge has been re
fused, or the proceedings have determined without a dis
charge. And no creditor whose debt is provable under
this act shall be allowed, after the commencement of
proceedings in insolvency, to prosecute to final judgment
any action therefore against the debtor until the ques
tion of the debtor's discharge shall have been deter
mined, and any such suit or proceeding shall, upon the
application of the debtor, or any creditor, or of the as
signee, be stayed to await the determination of the court
in insolvency on the question of discharge ; provided, there
be no unreasonable delay on the part of the debtor, or of
the petitioning creditors, as the case may be, in prosecut
ing the case to its conclusion ; and provided, also, that if
the amount due the creditor is in dispute, the suit, by
leave of the court in insolvency, may proceed to judg
ment for the purpose of ascertaining the amount due,
which amount may be proven in insolvency, but execu
tion shall be stayed as aforesaid; provided further, that
where a valid lien or attachment has been acquired or
secured in any such action, and an undertaking been
offered and accepted in lieu of such lien or attachment,
the case may be prosecuted to final judgment for the pur
pose of fixing the liability of the sureties upon such un
dertaking; but execution against the insolvent upon such
judgment shall be stayed.
Discharge—sec. 48 et seq.
Undertaking to prevent attachment—and to release same, see Code
Civ. Froc. sees. 540, 555 and notes.
Stay ot execution—see Code Civ. Proc. sec. 681n.
§ 46. Any person who shall have accepted any prefer
ence, having reasonable cause to believe that the same
was made or given by the debtor contrary to any provi
sion of this act, shall not prove the debt or claim, oh ac
count of which the preference was made or given; nor
shall he receive any dividend thereon until he shall first
have surrendered to the assignee all property, money,
benefit, or advantage received by him under such prefer
ence.
Fraudulent preferences and transfers—sec. 55.
§ 47. The court may, upon the application of the as
signee, or of any creditor of the debtor, or without any
code Civ. Pkoc—so.
application, before or after adjudication in insolvency,
examine upon oath the debtor in relation to his property
and his estate, and any person tendering or making proof
of claims, and may subpoena witnesses to give evidence
relating to such matters. All examinations of witnesses
shall be had and depositions shall be taken in accordance
with and in the same manner as is provided by the Code
of Civil Procedure.
Subpama—see Code Civ. Proc. sec. 1985 et seq.
Examination of witnesses—general rules, Code Civ. Proc. 2042 et
teq. : rights and duties of witnesses, sec. 2064 et seq.
Depositions—Code CIt. Proc. sees. 2019-2038.
§ 48. At any time after the expiration of three months
from the adjudication of insolvency, the debtor may ap
ply to the court for a discharge from his debts, and the
court shall thereupon order notice to be given to all cred
itors,
who for
havethat
proved
theirand
debts,
to appear,
on aa day
appointed
purpose,
show
canse •why
dis
charge should not be granted to the debtor; said notice
shall be given by mail and by publication at least once a
week, for four weeks, in a newspaper published in the
county, or, if there be none, in a newspaper published
nearest such county; provided, that if no debts have been
proven, such notice shall not be required.
Service by mail—of notice to creditors, compare sec. 7n.
§ 49. No discharge shall be granted, or if granted
shall be valid, if the debtor shall have sworn falsely in
his affidavit annexed to his petition, schedule, or inven
tory, or upon any examination in the course of the pro
ceedings in insolvency, in relation to any material fact
concerning his estate, or his debts, or to any other mate
rial fact; or if he has concealed any part of his estate or
effects, or any books or writings relating thereto; or if
ho has been guilty of fraud or willful neglect in the care,
custody, or delivery to the assignee of the property be
longing to him at the time of the presentation of his
petition and inventory, excepting such property as he is
permitted to retain under the provisions of this act, or if
lie lias caused or permitted any loss or destruction thereof;
or if, within one month before the commencement of such
proceedings, he has procured his lands, goods, money or
chattels to be attached, or seized on execution; or it he
has destroyed, mutilated, .altered, or falsified any of his
books, documents, papers, writings, or securities, or lias
made or been privy to the making of any false or fraudu
lent entry in any book of account or other document with
intent to defraud his creditors; or if he has given any
fraudulent preference contrary to the provisions of this
act, or made any fraudulent payment, gift, transfer, con
veyance, or assignment of any part of his property, or
has lost any part thereof in gaming, or has admitted a
false or fictitious debt against his estate, or if, having
knowledge that any person has proven such false or ficti
tious debt,
has not
disclosed
the same to
•within
one hemonth
after
such knowledge
;i orhisif assignee
being a
merchant or tradesman he has not, subsequently to the
passage of this act, kept proper books of account ; or if
lie or any other person on his account, or in his behalf,
has influenced the action of any creditor at any stage of
the proceedings, by any pecuniary consideration or obli
gation; or if he has in contemplation of becoming insolv
ent made any pledge, payment, transfer, assignment, or
conveyance of any part of his property, directly or indi
rectly, absolutely or conditionally, for the purpose of
prefering any creditor or person having a claim against
him, or who is or may be under liability for him, or for
the purpose of preventing the property from coming into
the hands of the assignee, or of being distributed under
this act in satisfaction of his debts; or if ho has been
convicted of any misdemeanor under this act, or has
been guilty of fraud contrary to the true intent of- this
act; or in case of voluntary insolvency has received the
benefits of this or any other act of insolvency or bank
ruptcy within three years next preceding his application
for discharge. And before any dischargo is granted, the
debtor shall take and subscribe an oath to the effect that
he has not done, suffered, or been privy to any act, matter,
or thing specified in this act, as ground for withholding
such discharge or as invalidating such discharge, if
granted.
Books of account—see as to effect of failure to deposit, sec. 22n.
Fraudulent preferences and transfers—sec. 55 and notes.
Fraud—ftenerally, Civil Code, sec. 3441: 2 Cal. 107,269,326 ; 5'Cal. 161;
6Cal. 47,664, 6T0; 7 Cal. 206; 8 Cal.b7; 12 Cal. 45, 231; 13 Cal. 76; 19 Cal.
302; 21Cal.402; 25 Cal. 653; 26Cal.309; 35 Cal. 223: 37 Cal.3'-'8; 49 Cal.
620;
Cal.12132:Cal.fraudulent
SCal.50118;
45; 14 Cal.intent,
165; 24Civil
Cal.Code,
502; 36sec.
Cal.8442
159;; 742Cal.
Cal.391,
361;503;43
Cal. 581; 48 Cal. 399; 50 Cal. 132: penalty, sec. 56.
§ 50. Any creditor opposing the discharge of a debtor
shall file specificat ions, in writing, of the grounds of his
opposition, and after the debtor has filed and served his
answer thereto, which pleadings shall be verified, the
court shall try the issue or issues raised, with or without
a jury, according to the practice provided by law in civil
actions.
Opposition to discharge—for defects of petition or schedules, 4 Cal.
337 ; 32 Cal. 406 : by creditor not named, 4 Cal. 337 : fraud, setting forth
facts, 37 Cal. 3M ; 39 Cal. 123.
Verification
Conduct of trial—In
of p eadings—see
civil actions,Code
see Code
Civ. Proc.
Civ. Proc.
sec. 446
Bee.and
607n.
notes.
§ 51. If it shall appear to the court that the debtor has
in all things conformed to his duty under this act, and
that he is entitled under the provisions thereof to receive
a discharge, the court shall grant him a discharge from all
liis debts, except as hereinafter provided, and shall give
him a certificate thereof, under the seal of the court, in
substance as follows: In the Superior Court, of the
county of
, State of California. Whereas,
has
been duly adjudged an insolvent underthe insolvent laws
of this State, and appears to have conformed to all the
requirements of law in that behalf, it is thereforee ordered
by the court that said
be forever discharged from all
debts and claims, which by said insolvent laws are made
day
provable
of against
, on which
his estate,
the petition
and which
forexisted
adjudication
on the was
filled by [or against] him, excepting such debts, if any, as
are by said insolvent laws excepted from the operation
of a discharge in insolvency. Given under my hand, and
the seal of the court, this
of
, A. D. IS—. Attest,
, Clerk. [Seal.]
, Judge.
§ 52. No debt created by fraud or embezzlement of the
debtor, or by his defalcations as a public officer, or while
acting in a fiduciary character, shall be discharged under
this act, but the debt may be proved, and the dividend
thereon shall be a payment on account of said debt; and
no
charge,
disehargo
or affect
granted
any person
underliable
this act
for the
shallsame
release,
debtdis^
for
or with the debtor, either as partner, joint contractor,
indorser, surety, or otherwise.
Fiduciary character of debt—prevents discharge, 46 Cal. 547.
§ 53. A discharge, duly granted under this act, shall,
with the exceptions aforesaid, release the debtor from all
claims, debts, liabilities, and demands, set forth in his
schedule, or which were or might have been proved
against his estate in insolvency, and may be pleaded by a
simple averment, that on the day of its date such dis
charge was granted to him, setting forth the same in full,
and the same shall be a complete bar to all suits brought
on any such debts, claims, liabilities, or demands, and the
certificate shall be prima facie evidence in favor of such
fact, and of the regularity of such discharge ; provided, how
ever, that any creditor of said debtor, whose debt was
proved or provable against the estate in insolvency, who
shall see fit to contest the validity of such discharge on
the ground that it was fraudulently obtained, and who
lias discovered the facts constituting the fraud subsequent
to the discharge, may, at any time within two years after
the date thereof, apply to the court which granted it to set
aside and annul the same, or if the same shall have been
pleaded, the effect thereof may be avoided collaterally
upon any such grounds.
Decree of discharge—effect of, 14 Cal. 173; 17 Cal. 518; 34 Cal. 98:
when no defense, 26 Cal. 279; 38 Cal. 196.
Attacking discharge—11 Cal. 123.
§ 54. The refusal of a discharge to the debtor shall not
affect the administration and distribution of his estate
under the provisions of this act.
§ 55. If any person being insolvent, or in contempla
tion of insolvency, within one month before the filing of
a petition by or against him, with a view to give a prefer
ence to any creditor or person having a claim against him,
or who is under any liability for him, procures any part of
his property to be attached, sequestered, or seized on exe
cution, or makes any payment, assignment, transfer, or
conveyance of any part of his property, either directly or
indirectly, absolutely or conditionally, the person receiv
ing such payment, pledge, assignment, transfer, or convey, ance, or to be benefited thereby, or by such attachment or
seizure, having reasonable cause to believe that such per
son is insolvent, and that such attachment, seizure, pay
ment, pledge, conveyance, transfer, or assignment is made
with a view to prevent his property from coming to his as
signee in insolvency, or to prevent the same from being dis
tributed ratably among his creditors, or to defeat the ooject
of, or in any way hinder, impede, or delay the operation of
or to evade any of the provisions of this act, such transfer,
payment, conveyance, pledge, or assignment is void, and
the assignee may recover the property, or the value there
of, as assets of such insolvent debtor; and. if such sale,
assignment, transfer, or conveyance is not made in the
usual and ordinary course of business of the debtor, that
fact shall be prima facts evidence of fraud.
Fraudulent preferences and transfers—Civil Code.
§ 56. From and after the taking effect of this act, if
any debtor or insolvent shall, after the commencement of
proceedings in insolvency, secrete or conceal any proper
ty belonging to his estate, or part with, conceal, or de
stroy, alter, mutilate, or falsify, or cause to be concealed,
destroyed, altered, mutilated, or falsified, any book, deed,
document, or writing relating thereto, or remove, or cause
to bo removed, the samo or any part thereof, with intent
to prevent it from coming into the possession of the as
signee in insolvency, or to hinder, impede, or delay his
assignee in recovering or receiving tho same, or make any
payment, gift, sale, assignment, transfer, or conveyance
of any property belonging to his estate, with like intent,
or shall spend any part thereof in gaming; or shall, with
intent to defraud, willfully and fraudulently conceal from
his assignee, or fraudulently or designedly omit from his
schedule any property or effects whatsoever; or if in case
of any person having to his knowledge or belief proved a
false or fictitious debt against his estate, he shall fail to
disclose the same to his assignee within one month after
coming to the knowledge or belief thereof; or shall at
tempt to account for any of his property by fictitious loss
es or expenses; or shall, within three mouths before the
commencement of proceedings in insolvency, under the
false pretense of carrying on business and dealing in the
ordinary course of trade, obtain on credit from any per
son any goods or chattels, with intent to defraud ; or shall,
with intent to defraud his creditors, within three months
next before the commencement of proceedings in insolv
ency, pawn, pledge, or dispose of otherwise than by bona
fide transactions in the ordinary way of his trade, any of
liia goods or chattels which have been obtained on credit
and remain unpaid for, he shall be deemed guilty of mis
demeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be pun
ished by imprisonment in the county jail for not less than
three months nor more than two years.
Concealing property, etc.—see Penal Code, sec. 154.
Fraudulent dealing with books or writing—see Penal Code, sec.
132.
Fraud—sec. 48»; 19 Cal. 143.
Fraudulent preferences and transfers—sec. 55n.
§ 57. If any debtor shall die after the order of adjudi
cation, the proceedings shall be continued and concluded
in like manner and with like validity and effect as if he
had lived.
Continuance of proceedings—after death of party* compare Code
Civ. Proc. sec. 385.
§ 58. Pending proceedings by or against any person,
copartnership, or corporation, no Statute of limitations of
this State shall run against a claim which in its nature is
provable against the estate of the debtor.
Limitations generally—see Code Civ. Proc. sec. 312n.
§ 59. Any creditor, at any stage in the proceedings,
may be represented by his attorney or duly authorized
agent.
Attorney—see Code Civ. Proc. sec. 275 et seq.
§ 60. It shall be the duty of the court having jurisdic
tion of the proceedings, to exempt and set apart forthe use
and benefit of said insolvent such real and personal prop
erty as is by law exempt from execution ; and also a home
stead in the manner as provided in sectiou one thousand
four hundred and sixty-five of the Code of Civil Pro
cedure.
Property exempt from execution—see Code Civ. Proc. sec. 690 and
notes.
§ 61. The filing of the petition by or against a debtor
upon which an order of adjudication in insolvency may
be made by the court, shall be deemed to be the com
mencement of proceedings in insolvency under this act.
§ 62. "Words used in this act in the singular include
the plural, and in the plural, the singular, and the word
"debtor" includes partnerships and corporations.
Meaning of words—compare Code Civ. Proc. sec. 17.
§ 63. A receiver may be appointed by the court in
which an insolvent proceeding is pending before the elec
tion of an assignee :
1. Upon the application of creditors, where it is shown
that the property, or any portion thereof, is in danger of
being lost, removed, or materially injured;
2. In all other cases where receivers are appointed, by
the usages of courts of equity. And thereupon the ap
pointment, oath, undertakmg, and powers of such receiv
er shall, in all respects, be regulated by the general laws
of the State applicable to receivers.
Receivers—see Code Civ. Froc. sec. 564 et seq.
§ 64. All sections of the Code of Civil Procedure of
the State of California relating to contempts are hereby
made applicable to all proceedings under this act. An
appeal shall be allowed to the Supreme Court from any
order adjudging any person guilty of contempt of court.
Contempts—sees. 1209-1222,907-910; also sees. 178, 183, 1016, 1460, 1461.
Appeal to Supreme Court—sec. 67.
§ 65. "When an attachment has been made and is not
dissolved before the commencement of proceedings in in
solvency, or is dissolved by an undertaking given by the
defendant, if the claim upon which the attachment suit
was commenced is proved against the estate of the debt
or, the plaintifff may prove the legal costs and disburse
ments of the suit, and of the keeping of the property, and
the amount thereof shall be a preferred debt. In all con
tested matters in insolvency the court may, in its discre
tion, award costs to either party, to be paid by the other,
or to either or both parties, to be paid out of the estate,
as justice and equity may require; in awarding costs, the
court may issue execution therefore. In all involuntary
cases under this act, the court shall allow the petitioning
creditors out of the estate of the debtor, if any adjudica
tion of insolvency be made, as a preferred claim, all legal
costs and disbursements incurred by them in that be
half.
Attachment—see Code Civ. Froc. sec. 637 et seq. ,
§ 66. The court may, upon the application of the debt
or, if it be a voluntary petition, or of the petitioning cred
itors, if a creditor's petition, dismiss the petition and dis
continue the proceedings at any time before the appoint
ment of assignee; after the appointment of assignee no
dismissal shall be made without the consent of allparties
interested in or affected thereby.
§ 67. An appeal may be taken to the Supreme Court
in the following cases :
1 . From an order granting or refusing an adjudication
of insolvency;
2. Allowing or rejecting a creditor's claim, in whole or
in part;
3. Overruling a motion for a new trial;
4. Settling an account of an assignee ;
5. Against or in favor of setting apart homestead or
otlier property claimed as exempt from execution;
6. Granting or refusing a discharge to the debtor.
conform
The notice,
to theundertaking,
general lawsand
of procedure
this State on
regulating
appeal shall
ap
peals in civil cases, except that when the assignee has
given an official undertaking and appeal from a judgment
or order in insolvency, his official undertaking stands in
the place of an undertaking on appeal, and the sureties
therein are liable on such undertaking.
Appeal in contempt cases—sec. 64.
Appeals—in general, see Code Civ. Proc. sees. 936-959: notice, sea
Code Civ. Proc. sec. 940 and note : undertaking, see Code Civ. Proc.
sees. 940, 941, and notes.
Official undertaking—In lieu of usual bond, compare Code Civ.
Proc. sec. 965.
§ 68. All acts and parts of acts in conflict with the
provisions of this act are hereby repealed; provided, how
ever, that such repeal shall in no manner invalidate or af
fect any case in insolvency instituted and pending in any
court
Repeals—see
prior toCode
the Civ.
dayProc.
when
sec.this
18n. act shall take effect.


