TIIE

CALIFORNIA PRACTICE AC T.

AN ACT TO REGULATE PROCEEDINGS IN CIVIL
CASES IN THE COURTS OF JUSTICE OF THIS
STATE.

LS PLEID APRIL 2911, 1351, AND AS UENTLY AMENDED BY VARIOU3
A013 0! THE LEGISLA I UP TO AND INCLUDING THE YEAR 1807-C.

The People of the State of California, represented in Senate and
Assembly, do enact as follows : ' '

TITLE I.

OF CIVIL ACTIONS AND ‘THE PARTIES THERETO.

Slcrrox 1. One form of civil actions, on] .

Parties to an action, how designated.

Special issues not made by the pleadings, how tried.
Action to be in the name of the real party in interest.
Assignment of a thing in action not to rejudice.

Executor or trustee may sue without a persons benedcially interested.

When married woman is a , actions by and against.
If husband and wife sued _toge er, wife may defend.

Infant to a pear by 
Guardian, ow appointed.

Father or mother may maintain action for injury to child.
Who may be joined as laintiifs.

Who may be Joined as efendants.

14. Parties in interest, when to be joined. When one or more
may me or defend for the whole.

15. One action may include‘ diferent parties to commercial

per.
16. Act.i‘<:1_, _ when not to abate by death, marriage or other dis55F599s 9999»

abih .
17. Court, wthen to decide controversy, or to order other parties to be brought in.

§ 1. One form of civil actions, only.

There shall be in this State but one form of civil actions,

for the enforcement or protection of private rights, and the
redress or prevention of private wrongs.

§ 10. Guardian, how appointed.

The guardian shall be appointed as follows :

lst. When the infant is plaintifff, upon the application of
the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years ; or if under
that age, upon the application of a relative or friend of the
infant.

2d. When the infant is defendant, upon the application of
the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, and apply
within ten days after the service of the summons; if he be
under the age of fourteen, or neglect so to apply, then upon
the application of any other party to the action, or of a relative or—friend of the infant.

A ‘cable toJustioes’ Courts. N. Y. Code, § 116, Abb. Forms, No. 66-98.
1. e provisions of this and the eceding section relating to the appointment of guardians ad litem, where ingnts are parties, only apply where there
is no general guardian, or where he does not act Gronjier v. Puymisol, 19

Cal. 62
2. A general guardian of an infant has authority to institute an action on

 of his ward, and where the body of the complaint shows the general

guardianshi of the laintif, a mistake in the deai tion of the plaintifff as
 Cgin t e title of the action, is one o no importance. Spear v.
ard, 2 . .

§ 11. Father or mother may maintain action for z'n,jury to child.

A father, or in case of his death or desertion of his family,
the mother, may maintain an action for the injury or death
of a child ; and a guardian for the injury or death of his ward.

§14. Parties in interest, when to be joined. When one or

I more may sue or defend for the whole.

Of the parties to the action, those who are united in interest shall be joined as plaintifffs or defendants ; but if the consent of any one who should have been joined as plaintifff cannot be obtained, he may be made a defendant, the reason
thereof being stated in the complaint; and when the question
is one of a common or general interest, of many persons. or
when the parties are numerous, and it is impracticable to

bring them all before the Court, one or more may sue or defend for the benefit of all.
Applicable to Justices’ Courts; N. Y. Code, § 119.

1. Construction of this sectlon.—'1‘he fourteenth section of the Practice
Act was intended to a ly to suits in equity, and not to actions at law.
Andrews v. Molcelumnc ill 00., 7 Cal. 330.

2. Generally.—The rule requiring all ersons materially interested to be
made parties to a suit is dispensed with, w en it is impracticable or very inconvenient, as in cases of joint associations, com osed of numerous individuals. Gorman v. Russell, 14 Cal. 531; Van Salim‘ tv. Huntington, 1 Cal. 55.

3. When one partner sues for an injury to the partnership property, and
makes his copartner a defendant for want of his consent to join as plainti.&',
the recovery must be entire for the whole injury. Query: Whether such non'oinder of Harties laintif! is permissible. N igfilingale v. Scannell, 6 Cal. 506.

he lawIydvi not to erate a division of a joint right of action into several actions. .

4. In an action upon a bond or written undertaking, there can be no conatlrlucgisve parties jointly liable with the proper obligors. Lindsay v. Flint, 4

5. All the parties having a part interest in the subject matter should be
joined as plaintids, but the defect must be taken advantage of by answer or
a portionment of damages, where it does not appear on the face of the comp °nt. Whitmy v. Stark, 8 Cal. 514.

6. When four of the trustees of a private corporation, owni sudlcient
stock to control its business, conduct the business in a grossly neg igent manner, systematically disregarding the by-laws, keeping no account of receipts
and ex enditures, failing to pay their own assessments, without an excuse:
Held, at a stockholder may sue in equity for an account, making t e corporation and said trustees alone parties-—no objection being taken that all the
stockholders were not parties-—and the trustees will be compelled to make
gpod any loss occasioned by their gross negligence or willful misconduct.

eall v. Hill, 16 Cal. 145.

§ 15. One action may include dizfercnt parties on obligations, etc.

Persons severally liable upon the same obligation or instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange and promissory notes, and sureties on the same or separate instruments,
may all or any of them be included in the same action, at the
option of the plaintifff.

TITLE II.

01-‘ THE PLACE OF TRIAL OF CIVIL ACTION.

Storm: 18. Actions to be tried where subject matter situated.
19. Actions to be tried where cause of action arose.
20. Actions to be tried where parties reside.
21. Change of place of trial.

§ 18. ‘ ‘Actions to be tried where subject matter situated.

Actions for the following causes shall be tried in the county
in which the subject of the action, or some part thereof, is
situated, subject to the power of the Court to change the
place of trial, as provided in this act:

1st. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate, or interest, therein, or for the determination, in any form, of such
right, or interest, and for injuries to real property.

2d. For the partition of real property.

3d. For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property.

Provided, that where such real property is situate partly in
one county and partly in another, the plaintifff may select
either of said counties, and the county so selected shall be the
proper county for the trial of any, or all, of such actions as
are mentioned in the first, second, and third subdivisions of this

section.

§ 19. Actions to be tried where causes of action arose.

Actions for the following causes shall be tried in the county

where the cause, or some part thereof, arose, subject to the
like power of the Court to change the place of trial:
’ 1st. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by
statute; except, that when it is imposed for an offense committed on alake, river, or other stream of water, situated in
two or more counties, the action may be brought in any
county bordering on such lake, river, or stream, and opposite
to the place where the offense was committed:

2d. Against a public ohicer or person especially appointed
to execute his duties, for an act done by him in virtue of his
office, or against aperson who, by his command, or in his aid,
does anything touching the duties of such officer.

N. Y. Code, § 124. See post, M 20, 21.

1. Proceedings foramandamusto com the execution of a sheriR's deed

a redemptioner, after six da from e redemption, under section two
undred and thirty-two of e e, can be commenced in the county where
therelator resides. The provision of the statute that w&o t a public
officerfor actsdone b him invirtue of his oiiice, etc., set f in this section, applies onl ‘ to a ative acts of the officer, by which in the execution
of process, or o erwise, he interferes with the property or right of third,
and not to more omissions or neglect of omcial duty. McMillan v.

iiacnards, 9 Cal.-120.

I, § 20. ‘Actions to be tried where parties reside.

A In all other cases, the action shall be tried in the county
which ‘the defendants, or any of them, may reside at the commencement of the action; or, if ‘none of the defendants reside in the State, or, if residing in this State, the county in
which they so reside be unknown to the plaintifff, the same
may be tried in any county which the plaintifff may designate in his complaint; and if any defendant or defendants
may be about to depart from the State, such action may be
tried in any county where either of the parties may reside_
or service be had; subject, however, to the power of the
Court to change the place of trial as provided in this Act.
mmended Stat. 1858, 82. N. Y. Code, $125. See post, $91. _

1. Probate proceedings notwlthin the Aot.--—Proosedlnge for the settlement ofan estate, and matters connected therewith,are notcivll actions
within the meaning of this Title 2d, so as to transfer them from one county
to another. Estate of Scott, 15 Cal. 220.

1. Corporation. residence of.--The prinei place of business of a corgration is its residence within the mean’ 0 that term, as used in section

ofthePracticeAct,£xing the place 0 trial. Jenlcinsv. the Oalifomia
&Ig¢ Company, 22 Cal. 637.

3. Habeas Corpus.-—'l‘he writ of habeas corpus should not issue to run out
of the county, unless for good cause shown, as the absence, inability or refusal to act, of the local Judge, or other reason showing that the ob)ect and
reason of the law requires its issuance. Ea: parts Ellis, 11 Cal. 225.

§21. Change of phzce of trial.

The Court may, on motion, change the place of trial in the
following cases : i

lst. When the county designated in the complaint is not
the proper county ;

2d. When there is reason to believe that an impartial trial
cannot be had therein ; A

3d. When the convenience of witnesses and the ends of
justice would be promoted by the change ; s

4th. When from anycause the Judge is disqualified from
acting in the action.

TITLE III.

OF THE MANNEB OF COMMENCING CIVIL ACTIONS. 1'

Sncuox 22. Actions, how commenced.

Complaint, how indorsed; when summons may issue, how
signed and issued. .

Summons, requisites of.

Summons, time to answer.

Summons, what notice to be inserted therein.

Lia pendens, tiling and effect of.

Summons, by whom served.

Summons, how served.

Service of summons by publication, when defendant cannot
be found, etc.

Order of publication, what to contain.

Action  two or more defendants, how plaintiff may

roe

Proo of service, how made.
. Certincate or affidavit of service, what to state.
35. Jurisdiction, when Court shall have acquired.

-“E3 $3 .3§33.‘3§.3’-3 .3

§ 22. ‘Actitms, how commenced.

Civil actions in the District Courts, Superior Court of the
City of San Francisco, and the County Courts, shall be com§23. ‘Complaint, how indorsed ; when summons may issue,

The Clerk shall indorse on the complaint, the day, month,
and year, the same is filed, and at any time within one year
after the filing of the same, the plaintifff may have asummons
issued. The summons shall be signed by the Clerk and directed to the defendant, and be issued under the seal of the
Court.

‘Amended, Stat. 1860, 298. Seeante, 9 22.

1. If the Courtis authorized to direct a summons to issue after the irah'on of the year, the exercise of the power rests in the legal discretion 0 th
Court, and its action willnot be set aside on appeal, unless it clearly 

e
gt the discretion was not soundly exercised. Dupuy v. Shear, al.

2. Since the amendment of 1860 to the twenty-third section of the Practice
Act, the Clerk is not authorized to issue a summons in an action, without an
order from the Court, after the expiration of one year from the tiling of the
complaint. This principle applies as wellto causes in which the complaint
was filed before as to those in which the complaint was nled after the amendmandment took effect. Id.

3. When a plaintiff commences an action bg néinng a complaint and issuing
en t

summons, but makes no service on the do until nine years have

an order of the Court, made on defendant's motion, striking out the
complaint for want of prosecution, is not such an abuse of discretion as to
justify the appellate Court in reversing the order. Id.

§ 24. ‘Summom, requisites of.

The summons shall state the parties to the action, the
Court in which it is brought, the county in which the complaint is filed, the cause and general nature of the action,
and require the defendant to appear and answer the complaint
within the time mentioned in the next section, after the service of the summons, exclusive of the day of service, or that
judgment by default will be taken against him, according to

the prayer of the complaint, briefly stating the sum of
money or other relief demanded in the complaint ; and the
Clerk shall also indorse on the summons the names of the
p1aintiii"s attorneys.

‘Amended, Stat. 1854, 84; 1859, 89. See “ 26, post ; Abb. Form, No. 99106, and notes; Bancz-of't’s Forms, No. 613. »

1. If the summons be radically defective, it will not support a judgment
by default. People v. Woodleif, 2 Cal. 241.

2. Inthiscase, the summons wasreturnableinthiatzinsteadof fo days,
and did not state that judgment by default would be en unless the efendant a and answered, not specify any amount for which judgment
woul taken. Id.

3. The Court may allow the summons to be amended by inserting a notice
to the defendant of the nature of the demand, and that unless he a eat
and answer within the time therein specided,9i'udgment by default be
taken  Pollock v. Hunt, 2 Cal. 1 . .

4.Theonlyo ofasummonsistobringapartyintoOourt,andifthat
ebjectbeobtain theappearanceandggaladlngofaparty, there can be
no injury to him. it}: v. Curtis, 7 Cal. .

6. In actions for fraud, the summons must apprise the defendant that on
failure to answer, judgment will be taken against him for the fraud. A mere
notice in the summons that a mono judgment will be taken, will not support
a judgment for fraud. Porter v. aw-smut. 8 0aL 619.

§ 25. Summons, time to answer.

The time in which the summons shall require the defendant to answer the complaint, shall be as follows :

1 lst. If the defendant is served within the county in which
the action is brought, ten days.°

2d. If the defendant is served out of the county, butin the
district in which the action is brought, twenty days. 3d. In all other cases, forty days.

§ 26. Summons, what notice toebe inserted therein.

There shall also be inserted in the summons a notice, in
substance as follows:

lst. In an action arising on contract for the recovery only
of money or damages, that the plaintid will take judgment
for a sum specified therein, if the defendant fail to answer the
complaint.

2d. In other actions, that if the defendant fail to answer
the complaint, the plaintifff will apply to the Court for the

relief demanded therein. .

8eeantc,§94;N.Y.Code,§129.

1. Where judgment by default is entered in an action against a for
fraudulently converting money of the plaintifff, the summons must ve_apmed the defendant that, on failure to answer, judgment would be taken against
' for the fraud. A more notice in the summons that a money Edgment
erma

vonldbetaken,wi1lnotsupporta'udgmentf frad. Porter .
80al.619. J or n Y

§ 27. ‘Lie pendens,jilz'ng and qfect of.

In an action affecting the title to real property, the plaintill‘, at the time of filing the complaint, and the defendant, at
the time of filing his answer, when ailirmative relief is claimed
in such answer, or at any time afterwards, may file with
the Recorder of the county in which the property is situated, a notice of the pendency of the action, containing the
names of the parties to, and the object of, the action, and a
description of the property in that county affected thereby ;
and the defendant may also, in such notice, state the nature
and extent of the relief claimed in the answer. From the
time of filing, only, shall the pendency of the action be constructive notice to a purchaser, or encumbrance of the property affected thereby.

deputy, it shall be returned with the certificate or affidavit
of the officer of its service, and of the service of the copy
of the complaint, to the oiiice of the clerk from which the
summons issued. When the summons is served by any other
person, as before_ provided, it shall be returned to the office
of the clerk from which it issued, with the aiiidavit of such
person of its service, and of the service of a copy of the
complaint. If there be more than one defendant in . the
action, and such defendants reside within the county, a copy
of the complaint need be served on only one of the defendants.

1 Amended Stat. 1854, 42; 1855, 196; 1859. 39 ; 1860, 298.
1. Courts will take judicial notice of the signature of their cmcers, as such,
but not of parties to a cause. Alderson v. Bell, 9 Cal. 321.

2. —Courts should presume that the sheriff served all process
wiéliiln his j iction, where no place of service is stated. Crane v. Brannon,
3 . 196.

3. Where he states that he served defendant with a certified copy of the
complaint. it will be presumed that the copy was certfiled by the clerk and not
by some one else. Curtis v. Herrick, 14 C 119.

4. Where the levy is made by posting a copy of the writ on the premises, it is
not necessary to show by the return that the premises were at the time unoccupied. Ritter v. Scannell, 11 Cal. 248 ; 0'0onnor v. Blaloe, 29 Cal. 312.

5. Descrlpi:lon.—'l‘he word “ appurtenances ” insuilicient to com rehend
within its  any personal property as the subject of a levy. onroe v.
Ihomas, 5 . 4 .

6. A description in a she:-ifs return of city lots, by numbers, referring to the
omcial map, is sunicient. Watch v. Szdlivan, 8 Cal. 186.

7. Amendment, mistake.—A mistake in the date of a return my be corrected at any time. Bitter v. Scannell, 11 Cal. 248.

8. The sherif has no right to amend his return so as to affect vested rights.
Newhall v. Provost, 6 Cal. 87; Webster v. Haworth, 8 Cal. 26.

9. Return conclusive.—-His return is not traversable, nor can it be attacked

go(l:i:lterally, even if has been guilty of fraud or collusion. Egery v. Buchanan,
. 56.

10. Returns. howmade.--All returns must be made by the deputy in the
name and by the authority of the sheriff. Joyce v. Joyce, 5 Cal. 449.

ll. A summons was served by a deput sheriff and returned with the following signature to the return: Eligah F. Co e, D. S. Judgment was rendered by
default: Edd, that the judgment was null and void; the return should have
been in the name of thesherid by the deputy. Rowley v. Howard, 23 Cal. 401.

12. A$dnvit of 8ervice.—The anidavit of service required by this section
must show that the person serving it was a white male citizen, over twenty-one
years of age, competent to testify in the cause, and that a ccrtiiied copy of the

complaint accompanied the summons. McMillan and Wife v. Reynolds, 11 Cal.
378.

§ 29. ‘ Summons, how served.

The summons shall be served by delivering a copy thereof,
as follows :

. lst. If the suit be against a corporation, to the President,

§ 31. Order to direct publication.

The order shall direct the publication to be made in anewspaper, to be designated as most likely to give notice to the
person to be served, and for such length of time as may be
deemed reasonable, at least once a week; provided, that
publication against a defendant residing out of the State, or
absent therefrom, shall not be less than three months. In
case of publication, where the residence of a non-resident or
absent defendant is known, the Court or Judge shall also
direct a copy of the summons and complaint to be forthwith
deposited in the postodice, directed to the person to be served,
at his place of residence. When publication is ordered, personal service of a copy of the summons and complaint, out of
the State, shall be equivalent to publication and deposit in the
postoffice. In either case, the service of the summons shall
be deemed complete at the expiration of the time prescribed
by the order for publication. In actions upon contracts for
the direct payment of money, the Court in its discretion may,
instead of ordering publication, or may, after publication,
appoint an attorney to appear for the non-resident, absent or
concealed defendant, and conduct the proceedings on his part.

against the joint property of all, and the separate property
of the defendant served; or,

2d. If the action be against defendants severally liable, he
may proceed against the defendants served in the same manner as if they were the only defendants.

ApplicabletoJ'ustices’Gourts,pos¢, $685; see alsot 368; N. Y. Code, 138
seepost, § 145, “Ju ents.”

1. When the shows in eral terms the appearance of parties, the
3  confined to parties served with process. Chester V.
, 1 . .

2. C. urchasedgoodsonhis individual account, and directed plaintiffto
charge e same to the joint account of C. and J. In an action by plaintifff:
Held. that although J. was not liable, judgment might be rendered against 0.
The common law rule is modified so far, at least, as to permit judgment against
a portion of the defendants whenever the contract purports on its face to be
the contract of all the parties sued. and it turns out in proof that a rtion
onl are liable. Lewis v. Clarlcin, 18 Cal. 399; Stearns v. Aguirre, 6 C 176in ‘ respect overruled; Chester v. Miller, 13 Cal. 558.

3. The provisions of the thirty-second section‘ of the Practice Act, which in
an action against two or more defendants all of whom are not served, authorizes
judgment to be entered to bind the joint property of all the defendants. does
not apply to actions for the foreclosure of mortgages on real estate. Bowen v.
Kay, 12 Cal. 348.

4. A personal judgment can not be given against a party not served with
process in an action on a joint obligation of several defendants. Treat v. NoChll cl: Brady, 10 Cal. 511.

5. Where in an action against defendants, jointly and not severally liable, a
portion of them onl are served with fprocess, the clerk cannot on the application
of laintld enter jn gment upon de ault against the parties served only. A
jucrgmentso entered is void. Kelly v. Van Austin at al., 17 Cal .564.

6. The proper course in such case is to enter judgment against all the defeudants, but so as to be enforced against the joint property of all and the
separate property of those served. Id.

7. Where the action is against defendants severally liable, a portion only
being served with, the clerk can on a plication of plaintifff enter judgment u on
default a inst the parties served wit out regard to the other parties name in
the comp aint. Id. [See Bond v. Pacheco, 30 Cal. 534 and case there cited.)

8. Where one of two defendants in a joint jud ent pays it, but not with the
intention of discharging it, he is entitled to use a judgment for his protection
and indemnity, and may enforce it a inst his co-defendant for his legal proportion of the debt. 00 ee v. Ilevis, 1 Cal. 239.

9. In an action aga tdefendants jointly indebted, where one onl is served,
Ensleveral judgment may be entered against them. Huchjield v. in, 6

. 607.

§33. Proof of service, how made.

Proof of the service of summons shall be as follows :

1st. If served by the sheriff or his deputy, the affidavit or
certificate of such sheriff or deputy; or,

2d. If by any other person, his affidavit thereof; or,

3d. In case of publication, the aiiidavit of the printer, or
his foreman, or principal clerk, showing the same; and an

§ 34. Certificate or a_17’idavit of service, requisites of.
In case of service otherwise than by publication, the certificate or affidavit shall state the time and place of service.

N. Y. Code, § 138.

1. The only object of the designation of the place where process is served, is
to determine the period within which the answer must be filed, or when default

mazy be taken. Whitwell v. Barbie:-, 7 Cal. 62.
. Where the evidence of the place of service is iusumcient to authorize a

judgment, advantage of it should be taken, either by appeal or on motion to
vacate the judgment. Pica v. Sunol, 6 Cal. 294.

§ 35. Jurisdiction, when Court shall have acquired.

From the time of the service of the summons and copy of
complaint in a civil action, the Court shall be deemed to have
acquired jurisdiction, and to have control of all the subsequent proceedings. A voluntary appearance of a defendant

shall be equivalent to personal service of the summons upon

bun.

TITLE IV.

OF THE PLEADING8 IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

8Ic'nol 36. Form of p eadings.
Sumciency of loadings, how determined.

1

Pleadings on e part of plaintiff and defendant.
Complaint, what to contain.

When defendant may demur.

Demurrer must specify grounds of objection.
Demurrer and answer.

gilnended complaint, how med anlxlluslslerved.

° ‘on not appearing on comp ' t.

Obixon, when deemed waived.

Answer, what to contain.

Counter claim.

Cross demands.

Several defenses.

Demurrer to answer and sham and irrelevant defenses
Pleadings to be verined.

Pleadings, when not to be verined.

Co y of instrument, when deemed admitted as genuine

en deemed not admitted.

Pleadi , how and by whom verined.

Items 0 account. Bill of particulars.

Irrelevant and redundant matter.

In real actions, how to describe property.

Judgments, how to be leaded.

Conditions precedent, ow to be pleaded.

Private statutes, how to be pleaded.

Libel and slander, how stated in the complaint.
Answer in such cases.

What causes of action may be joined.

Allegation not denied, when to be deemed true.

What is a material allegation.

Amendments of course, and efect of demurrers.

Who may enlarge time to plead, correct mistakes, amend

and relieve from judgment in certain cases.

Fictitious name.

Pleadings. how construed.

No error or defect to be regarded, unless it afects the

substantial rights.

§ 36. Form of pleadings.

The pleadings are the formal allegations by the parties of
their respective claims and defenses, for the judgment of the
Court.

For intervention, see 5 659, etc.

§ 37. Sujiciency of pleadings, how determined.
All the forms of pleadings in civil actions, and the rules by

 $333333333333?v='$s‘5='$:3'$$5:"55s"7~!tf=5!3F$?33?‘

which the sufficiency of the pleadings shall be determined,
shall be those prescribed in this act.

Ante, §1;pos¢, $70; N. Y. Code, §140. ‘
1. Under our code of practice the same rules of pleadings govern in all
cases, both at law and in equity. Bowen v Aubrey, 22 Cal. 566.

§ 38. 1Pleadz'ngs on the part of plaintyf and defendant.

The pleadings on the part of the plaintifff shall be the complaint or demurrer to the defendant’s answer ; the pleadings
on the part of the defendant to the original complaint or cross
complaint of a co~defendant shall be the demurrer or answer.
When a defendant is entitled to relief as against the plaintifff
alone, or against the plaintill‘ and a co~defendant, he may
make a separate statement in his answer of the necessary
facts, with a prayer for the relief sought, instead of bringing

a distinct cross action. All pleadings subsequent to the _

original complaint shall be filed with the Clerk, and a copy
thereof served on the adverse party or his attorney, if the
adverse party or his attorney live within the county where
the action is pending; provided, that when the answer contains a cross complaint, the parties plaintifff or defendant, or
his or their attorney thereto, shall be served with a copy
thereof, and shall have the same time thereafter to plead
thereto that is allowed for pleading to the original complaint
after service of the summons.
1Amended Statute, 1855, 303; 1860, 298; 1863, 578; 1866, 701.

§ 39. Complaint, what to contain.

The complaint shall contain :

1st. The title of the action, specifying the name of the
Court, and the name of the county in which the action is
brought, and the name of the parties to the action, plaintiff
and defendant ; 2d. A statement of the facts constituting the cause of ac.
tion, in ordinary and concise language ;

3d. A demand of the relief which the plaintifff claims. If the
recovery of money, or damages, he demanded, the amount
thereof shall be stated.

§ 40. When defendant may demur.

The defendant may demur to the complaint within the time
required in the summons to answer, when it appears upon
the face thereof, either, a

1st, That the Court has no jurisdiction of the person of
the defendant, or the subject of the action ; or,

2d, That the plaintifff has not legal capacity to sue ; or,

3d, That there is another action pending between the same
parties for the same cause ; or,

4th, That there is a defect or misjoinder of parties plaintifff or defendant ; or,

5th, That several causes of action have been improperly
united ; or, ‘

6th, That the complaint does not state facts suilicient to
constitute a cause of action ; or,

7th, That the complaint is ambiguous, unintelligible, or

- uncertain.

§ 43., Amended complaint, how jiled and served.

If the complaint be amended, a copy of the amendments
shall be filed, or the Court may in its discretion require the
complaint as amended to be filed, and a copy of the amendments shall be served upon every defendant to be affected
thereby, or upon his attorney, if he has appeared by attorney;
the defendant shall answer in such time as may be ordered
by the Court, and judgment by default may be entered upon
failure to answer, as in other cases.

‘Amended 1854, 85; 1855, 196. See Bu1esXV, XXX,XXIV, SanFrancisoo
county.

1. When a demurrer is overruled with leave to answer, it is not necessary
that the order dz the time within which the answer must be med. The Court
has power to dz such time for answering as it may deem proper; but where
notimeisdxed, the defendantshouldanswerwithin thesametimeasincase

of service of a y of the ' ' complaint. People v. Rains, 23 Cal. 128.
2. When the(d.)di'endant is ed time to answer until the laintiif elects

cnwhich eountof the conzgainthswin totrial, thep ' ' shouldserve
aipop cifgtzhecomplaintwi vthonoticeo r hiselection. Wilsonv.0leavolaad.
5 44. Objection not appearing on complaint.
When any of the matters enumerated in section forty do
not appear upon the face of the complaint, the objection may

be taken by answer.
N. Y. Code, § 147.

§ 45. Objections, when deemed waived.

If no such objection be taken, either by demurrer or answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have waived the same,
excepting only the objection to the jurisdiction of the Court,
and the objection that the complaint does not state facts audicient to constitute a cause of action.

§ 48. Oross demands.

When cross demands have existed between persons, under
such circumstances, that if one had brought an action against
the other, a counterclaim could have been set up, neither
shall be deprived of the benefit thereof, by the assignment or
death of the other; but the two demands [shall] be deemed
compensated, so far as they equal each other.

386 ante, § 47, note. .

§ 49. Several defenses.

The defendant may set forth by answer as many defenses
and counterclaims as he may have. They shall each be
separately stated, and the several defenses shall refer to the
causes of action which they are intended to answer, in a
manner by which they may be intelligibly distinguished.

§ 51. ‘Pleadings to be venjied.

Every pleading shall be subscribed by the party. or his attorney, and when the complaint is verified by affidavit, the
answer shall be verified also, except as provided in the next
section.

‘Amended 1860, 299; 1862, 562; N. Y. Code, $156.

1. An attorney in fact, who is not an attorney at law, cannot sign his name
to a complaint for his principal as “ plaintiffs attorney,” and an action so
commenced is void, as instituted without authority by an entire stranger to
the plaintifff. Dicey v. Pollack, 8 Cal. 570.

2. An answer unverided to a verided complaint may be stricken out on motion,  an application for a jgdgfierga as upon default may be made at the
nine e. v. Whttmg , . .

3. By veridcation of the complaint, the plaintiff can prevent the defendant
from interposing a general denial in suits on promissory notes or bills of exdnmgilhy requiring a sworn answer. Brooks v. Chilton, 6 Cal. 640.
4. e objection to the want of verincation of a complaint, where verification is uired b statute, must be taken either before answer or with the
answer. jieldVv.S¢eamerGwmell.6Cal. 67.
5. A party is not required to deny an indorsement under oath. An indorsee

cannot aye notes in evidence without proof of their indorsement. Ymmgs v.
Bed, 4 . 201; 18 Cal. 391.

§ 52. ‘Pleadings, when not to be verified.

The verification of the answer, required in the last section,
may be omitted when an admission of the truth of the complaint might subject the party to prosecution for felony or

misdemeanor.
‘Amended, 1860, 299; 1862, 562. N. Y. Code, § 157.

§ 53. Cbpy of instrument, when deemed admitted as genuine.
When an action is brought upon a written instrument, and

the complaint contains a copy of such instrument, or a copy

is annexed thereto, the genuineness and due execution of
such instrument shall be deemed admitted, unless the answer
denying the same be verified.

§ 54. ‘When deemed not admitted.

When the defense to an action is founded on a written
instrument, and a copy thereof is contained in the answer, or
is annexed thereto, the genuineness and due execution of
such instrument shall be deemed admitted, unless the plaintid
file with the clerk, five days before the commencement of the
term at which the action is to be tried, an affidavit denying
the same; provided, that the due execution of the instrument shall not be deemed to be admitted by a failure to controvert the same on‘ oath, as prescribed in this and the last
preceding section, unless the party controverting the same is,
upon demand, permitted to inspect the original before filing

such answer.

1 Amended 1860, 300; 1862. 562; 1866, 702.

1. Exhibits attached to an answer consisting of copies of the pleadings and
proceedings in an action in the United States Circuit Court, need no further
veriiicatou than what arises from the averment in the answer, that they are such
copies; that no distinct verincation of them is requisite; and were it otherwise, the certificate of the United States Circuit Court clerk issumcient. Ely

V. Frisbie, 17 Cal. 250.

§ 55. Pleadings, how and by whom verified. (a.) I
In all cases of the verification of a pleading, the aiiidavit of

the party shall state that the same is true of his own knowledge, except as to the matters which are therein stated, on his

information or belief, and as to those matters, that he believes
it to be true. And where a pleading is verified, it shall be
by the affidavit of the party, unless he be absent from the
county where the attorney resides, or from some cause unable
to verify it, or the facts are within the knowledge of his
attorney, or other person verifying the same. When the
pleading is verified by the attorney, or any other person except the party, he shall set forth in the affidavit the reasons
why it is not made by the party. When a corporation is a
party, the verification may be made by any officer thereof;
or wbn the State, or any officer thereof in its behalf, is a
party, the verihcation may be made by any person acquainted
with the facts, except that in actions prosecuted by the Attorney General in behalf of the State, the pleadings need
not, in any case, be verified.

from giving evidence thereof." The Court, or‘ a Judge thereof,

or a County Judge, may order a further account, when the

one delivered is too general, or’is defective in any particular.
N. Y. Code, M58. Abb. Forums, 1101-1119.

1. When and how objected to.—-It is too late to object at the trial that
3 Inn of particulars is not‘ properly verified ‘b the oath of the party.‘ The
put) upon whom a  of ‘particulars is serve if he is not satisned with it,
either because it is defective in form or in substance, or because it is not verined by the plaintiii‘, should immediately return it, or move the Court for a
further or amended bill. Dennison v. Smith, 1 Cal. 437.

2. If he does not, he cannot proceed‘ as if no billof particularswas rendered. Providence Tool Company v. Prader, 32 Cal. 634.

3. To suit on a note,“defenda'nt in general terms, without items, set u an

account for work and labor, ahd for money aid,’etc. Plaintili‘ asked or ‘a’

copy of the account, which defendant furnis ed. Plaintid‘ gave notice that’
he would move the Court “ for a further account of particulars,” etc. ; and on
' , the Court ordered that “ defendant‘ furnish said further bill,” which“
he di On the trial, plaintifff ordered’ this note, and rested: Defendant
ofered evidence of the account set‘ up in the answer, to which plaintiil‘ ob-'
jected, on the ground that “ defendant had not furnished‘ an additional bill of'
particulars,” and the Court ruled out the evidence. Held, that the Court
erred: lint, because the order for ‘a further account was defective, in notf
stating the 'culars in reference to which a further specification was
uired; an because, second, if the bill" of particulars delivered under the
r of the Court was not satisfactory, and plaintiff intended to object to
any evidence u n the subject, he should have obtained, ‘ions to the trial,
an order exclu ' such evidence. Conner v. Hutchinson, 1 Cal. 280.

4. Wimout an order before the ‘trial, excluding evidence of the account in
such cases, the Courtcannot on the trial exclude." Id.

5. Where a copy of the account sued on, or'set forth in the answer, is‘
called for under e iifty-sixth‘ section of the Practice Act, the items of the
account furnished must be set forthwith as much particularity as ‘the nature’
of the case admits of; but the law does ‘not re uire impossibihties, and if the
 vw the items, as definitely as he can e does not ‘forfeit his rights

of his inability to comply with a further demand for particulars. Id.

6. Where the complaint in hazc verba set forth the bill oi’ sale, it was held
to remedy a defect in the description of the quantityioi the goods ‘sold; a
$33115! be Omsurgnegdmainow what was 'mtended byhis own‘ account.

'7. C L .

§5'T. Ii‘relevant’or‘red1mdantimatter.i
If irrelevant or ‘ redundantmatterl be inserted in‘ a plead-*

ing,.it may be stricken ‘out by the Court on motion»-of any:
person aggrieved‘ ‘thereby.

§ 61. Private statutes, how-.10 be pleaded.

In pleading a private statute,‘ or 'arright~.deri=ved ‘therefrom,
it shall be sull'1cient*to refer ‘to such statute byits title -and
the day of its 'paesage,»and the Court shall thereupontalre
judicial notice thereof.

N. Y..Code, §163; Van Sant. Pleadinge, 270, 496; 5 Band. 153.

1. When a pleadermiaheato avail himself of a-statutory privilege, or ' t
given by particular facts, he must show the facts; thesefaots which‘ a

-statute requires as. the foundationof the right must be stated in the complaint.
-.Dyc.v.-1‘lye, 11 Cal. 163.

§ 62. Libel and slander, how stated in the complaint.
In an action for libel'orvelander,it:shall-notbe necessary

‘to statein the complaint any extrineicfacts for:the purpose of

showing the application "to =the plaintifff of the defamatory
matter out of which the 'cauee°of action aroee ; Shut it -shall

‘be sufficient to state generally, that "the mme was published
‘or spoken concerningthe plaintifff ; and if euch.alleg:ation the

controverted, the :- plaintifff ichall establish, an the ‘trial, ‘.that<it
waeeo published or-spoken.

§ 63. Answer in such cases.

In the actions mentioned in the last section, the defendant
may, in his answer, allege both the truth of the matter charged
as defamatory, and any mitigating circumstances to reduce the
amount of damages; and whether he prove the justification

or not, he may give in evidence the mitigating circumstances.
N. Y. Code, § 165 ; Abb. Forms, 1023-1036.

1. Justification. what must be a1leged.—To constitute a jnstincation in
an action for libel, the answer must aver the truth of the defamatory matter
charged. It is not sumcient to set up facts which only tend to establish the
truth of such matter. Without an averment of its truth, the fact detailed

can only avail in mitigation of damages. Thrall v. Smiley, 9 Cal. 529.

2. lEal1ce.—It is error for the Court to instruct the jury “that when a
n injuriously slanders the title of another, malice is presumed.” McDanv. Baca, 2 Cal. 326.

3. Proof by defendant.—The defendant may prove the ly by plaintit
immigigtflly after defendant uttered the slanderous words. v. Gardner, . 371.

§ 64. ‘ What causes of action may be joined.
The plaintifff may unite several causes of action in the same

complaint, when they all arise out of :

lst. Contracts express or implied.
2d. Claims to recover specific real property, with or without damages, for the withholding thereof, or for waste committed thereon, and the rents and profits of the same : or,
3d. ‘Claims to recover specific personal property, with or
without damages for the withholding thereof : or,
4th. Claims against a trustee by virtue of a contract or by
operation of law: or,
5th. Injuries to character: or,

6th. Injuries ‘to person: or,
7th. Injuries to property. But the causes of action so

united shall all belong to one only of these classes, and shall
a&'ect all the parties to the action, and not require different
places of trial, and shall be separately stated :

Provided, however, that an action for malicious arrest and
prosecution, or either of them, may be united with an action

for either an injury to character or to the person.

0

;§ 66. e'What.z29.ia 
A material allegation in axpleading -is one essential to.-the

.claim or defense, and which could not be stricken from the
- pleading « without leaving it insuliieient.

.1. An unessential, or what is. the -sa.me thing, an immaterial allegation, is one

- which can be stricken from the «pleading without leaving it insufllcient ; land, of

course. need not be proved or disproved. Wlzitwell v. Thomas, 9_Cal. 499.
2. The following question .will.deteI7mine, in every case, whetheran allegation
cbe material : “ Can 1t be . made the subject of -a material issue?” In other
words : “ Ifit be denied, will the failure to. prove it decide the case inwhole or
in part 2 ” If it will not, then the fact alleged is not material. It is not one of
those which constitute the causes of action, defense or reply. Green 17. Palmer,

15 Cal. 413.
3. A satement in a complaintthat the contract sued on was made payable
in a specillc kind of money, is an alle tion of, a material fact. Wallace v. El,dredge, 27-Cal. 498 ; seefurther, auto, -50, note, Nos. 6-21.
§ 67. ‘Amendments of course, and qfect qfidemwrers.

After demurrer, and before the trial of ‘the issue of law
thereon, the pleadings demurred to may be amended as of
course and withoutcosts by filing the same as -amended and
,.serving a copy thereof onthe adverse partyor his attorney
«within ten days, who shall have ten days thereafter in which
to demur or answer thereto ; but a party shall not so amend
,more than once. A demurrer shall not be deemed waived
by the filing of an -answer atthe same timeof filing-the dermurrer ; -and when the demur-'rer:to a complaintjs overruled,
—.and there .is ,no answer died, the ;Court may upon terms allow
auanswper to be filed. If ..a demurrer to theanswer beaver-,ruled, thesfaotsalleged in -the answer shall beconsidered as
denied, to theextent mentioned in seetieussixty-‘rive. Where
-circumstances occurring , subsequently » to the . commencement
.of the action render «it proper, the same .m.ay.:be presented
.by supplemental A-p1ea.di.ngs,.and issue ataken thereon in tin?
ssame manner as in the case of -original pleadings.

§ 68. 17 he Court may enlarge time to plead, correct mistakes,
amend and relieve from judgments in certain cases, etc.

The Court may, in furtherance of justice, and on such
terms as may be proper, amend any pleading or proceedings
by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect, and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for
an answer or demurrer, or demurrer to an answer filed. The
Court may likewise, upon affidavit showing good cause therefore, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon such terms
as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding
in other particulars, and may, upon like terms, allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this Act; and
may, upon such terms as may be just, and upon payment of
costs, relieve a party or his legal representatives from a

judgment, order, or other proceeding taken against him
through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect; and when, for any cause satisfactory to the Court,
or the Judge at chambers, the party aggrieved has been unable to apply for the relief sought during the term at which
such judgment, order, or proceeding complained of was taken,
the Court, or the Judge at chambers in vacation, may grant
the relief upon application made within a reasonable time,
not exceeding five months after the adjournment of the term.
When, from any cause, the summons and a copy of the complaint in an action have not been personally served on the
defendant, the Court may allow, on such terms as may be
just, such defendant or his legal representatives, at any time
within six months after the rendition of any judgment in
such action, to answer to the merits of the original action.

§ 69. Fictitious name.

When the plaintiff is ignorant of the name of a defendant,
such defendant may be designated in any pleading or proceeding by any name; and when his true name is discovered,

the pleading or proceeding may be amended accordingly.

N. Y. Code, § 175.

1. The Practice Act permits a p defendant, whose name is unknown, to
besuedbyanyname. Morganv. T ri , 2 Cal. 562.

2. If a bond has to be executed by t e plaintiff. and is executed to the defendant by a wrong name, the latter has his remedy, and may describe it as
given to him, and may show that he was the party mtended. Id.

3. The defendant was sued and served by the name of George Mott, and
judgment entered against him by the same name; afterwards, and without
notes to defendant, the plaintifff, on his own motion, obtained an order from
the Court to amend the judgzxent by alte ' the name of George to Gordon.
Held, that this was error. Nally v. Mott, Cal. 235.

4. Where a defendant is sued as James -—, service was returned upon
John —, and judgment was entered against J —: Held, to be error,
unless there was something in the record to show that the person served was
the person sued. Butter v. Coat, 6 Cal. 415.

§ 70. Pleadings, how construed.

In the construction of a pleading for the purpose of determining its effects, its allegations shall be liberally construed,
with a view to substantial justice between the parties.

TITLE V.

01''‘ THE PROVISIONAL REMEDIES IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

830-neat 72.

53 3.8 8333333383 i8.3i$.‘r‘~‘3?-°§8sT3 9‘3.=13§»=‘§-‘.5’

CHAPTER I.—Arrest and Bail.

No person to be arrested except as prescribed by this Act.‘
Cases in whichdefendant may be arrested.

Order for arrest, by whom made.

Amdavit to obtain order, what to contain.

Security by plaintifff before order of arrest.

Order, when made, and its form.

Aiiidavit and order to be delivered to the sherin‘ and copy

to defendant.

Arrest, how made.

Defendant to be discharged on bail or deposit.

Bail, how given.

%3a.11Surrender of dgfendanté

' , how proceeds agains .
Bail, how exonerated. _
Delivery of undertaking to plaintiff, and its acceptance or
rejection by him.

Notice of justiiication. New undertaking, if other bail.
Qualification of bail.

J ustihcatidn of bail.

Allowance of bail. . ,
Deposit of money with sherik.
Pa ent of mono into Court by sheriff.

Sup 'tuting bail or deposit. , f

Mone d sited, how a lied, or disposed of.

Shm , w en liable as ' and his discharge from lia. .ty.
Proceedings on judgment against sherim
Motion to vacate order of arrest or reduce bail, affidavits

on motion.
When the order vacated or bail reduced.

§ 72. No person to be arrested except as prescribed by this

Act.

N 0 person shall be arrested in a civil action, except as
prescribed by this Act.

§ 73. arses in which defendant may be arrested.
The defendant may be arrested as hereinafter prescribed,
in the following cases arising after the passage of this

Act: ‘

1st. In an action for the recovery of money or damages
on a cause of action arising upon contract express or implied, when the defendant is about to depart from the
State, with intent to defraud his creditors, or where or when
the action is for willful injury to person, to character, or to
property, knowing the property to belong to another :

2d. In an action for a fine or penalty, or for money or
property embezzled, or fraudulently misapplied, or converted to his own use, by a public officer; or an officer of
a corporation, or an attorney, factor, broker, agent, or
clerk, in the course of his employment as such; or by any
other person in a fiduciary capacity, or for misconduct or
neglect in office, or in a professional employment; or for a.
willful violation of duty :

3d. In an action to recover the possession of personal
property, unjustly detained, when the property, or any part
thereof, has been concealed, removed, or disposed of, so that
it cannot be found, or taken by the sheriff.

4th. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in
contracting the debt, or incurring the obligation, for which
the action is brought; or in concealing, or disposing of the
property, for the taking, detention, or conversion of which
the action is brought:

5th. When the defendant has removed or disposed of his
property, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his
creditors.

§ 74. Order for arrest, by whom made.
‘An order for the arrest of the defendant shall be obtained

from a Judge of the Court in which the action is brought, or

from a County Judge.
_N. Y. Code, § 180.

§ 75. Ajidavit to obtain order, what to contain.

The order may be made whenever it shall appear to the
Judge by the affidavit of the plaintifff, or some other person,
that .a su_&icient cause of action exists; and that the case is
one of those mentioned in section seventy-three. The affidavit shall be either positive, or upon information and belief ;
and when upon information and belief, it shall state the facts
upon which the information and belief are founded. If an
order of arrest be made, the affidavit shall be filed with the

clerk of the county.

§ 76- »$'ecw'it3/ to Plainhf before order of arrest (a) (b)

Before making the order, the Judge shall require .9. written
undertaking on the part of the plaintifff, with sureties, to the
edect that if the defendant recover judgment, the plaintifff
will pay all costs and charges that may be awarded to the

defendant, and all damages which he may sustain by reason
of the arrest, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which shall be at least five hundred dollars. Each
of the sureties shall annex to the undertaking an aliidavit
that he is a resident and householder, or freeholder, within
the State, and worth double the sum specified in the undertaking, over and above all his debts and liabilities, exclusive
of property exempt from execution. The undertaking shall
be filed .with the Clerk of the Court.

see past, § 650; N. Y. Code, § 182; Bancroft’s Forms, 491; Abb. Forms,
1306-1311.

1. The obligations of bail are assumed with reference to the law, which
becomes a part of their contract, and the whole statute must be examined to
determine their  Matoon v. Eder, 6 Cal. 57. '

§77. Order, when made, and its form.

The order may be made to accompany the summons, or any
time afterwards before judgment. It shall require the
sherif of the county where the defendant may be found

forthwith to arrest him and hold him to bail in a specified

.sum, and to return the order at a time therein mentioned to

the Clerk of ,the Court in which the action is pending.
N. Y. Code, § 183; Banc:roft's Forms, No. 442; Abb. Forms, 1312.

§ 78. Ajidavit and order to be delivered to the sherif and copy

 to defendant.

The order of arrest, with a copy of the aiiidavit upon

“which it is made, shall be delivered to the sheriff, who, upon

arresting the defendant, shall deliver to him the copy of A the
aiiidavit; and also, if desired, a copy of the order of arrest.

N. Y. Code, § 184. The sherin‘ must file them within ten days; Bale
HXIX. San Francisco.

§ 79. Arrest, how made.
The sheriff shall execute the order by arresting the defendant and keeping him in custody until discharged by law.
. N. Y. Code, §185.

§ 80. Defendant to be discharged on bail or deposit.

The defendant, at any time before execution, shall be discharged from the arrest either upon giving bail, or upon
depositing the amount mentioned in the order of arrest, as

‘provided in this chapter.

N. Y. Code, § 186.

§ 81. Bail, how given.

The defendant may give bail by causing a written undertaking to be executed by two or more suilicient sureties,
stating their places of residence and occupations, to the effect
that they are bound in the amount mentioned in the order of
arrest; that the defendant shall at all times render himself
amenable to the process of the Court, during the pendency
‘of the action, and to such as may be issued to enforce the
judgment therein; or that they will pay to the plaintifff the
amount of any judgment which may be recovered in the
action. . ' . .

N. Y. Code,§ 187; Bancroft’: Forms, 493; Abb. F. 1338-1340.

\ § 82. Surrender of defendant. ,
,, At any time before judgment, or within ten days there‘alter, the bail may surrender the defendant in their ei:oneration: or he may surrender himself to the sherid of the
county where he was arrested.

N.Y.Code,§188.

1. The suretles on the bail bond of a defendant, arrested in a civil action, are
not bound to surrender the defendant within ten days after judgment against
him, unless the plaintiff takes such measures as would authorize the oilicer to
hold defendant in custody. Allen 1'. Bmlauer. 8 Cal. 552.

2. A surrender, within ten days after execution, is a sumcient compliance
Iiill the statute. Id.

3. Where a party olered to surrender himself in discharge of his sureties:
Hold, to be a good surrender, and a discharge of the sureties from all liability.
Babb V. , 5 Cal. 93.

4. Where e judgmentisnotsuchaswillwsrrant a writofoa.ea.tohe isned under it, the bail will not be charged for lecting to surrender the ‘u nentdebtor. Iatoouv.3dar,6Cal.5 . mg . 1 dz

§ 83. Surrender of defendant.

A For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the bail
at any time or place before they are finally charged, may
themselves arrest him; or by a written authority, endorsed
on a certified copy of the undertaking, may empower the
sherid to do so. Upon the arrest of the defendant by the
sheriff, or upon his delivery to the sheriff by the bail, or
upon his own surrender, the bail shall be exonerated: provided, such arrest, delivery, or surrender, take place before
the expiration of ten days after judgment; but if such arrest,
delivery, or surrender, be not made within ten days after
judgment, the bail shall be finally charged on their undertaking, and be bound to pay the amount of the judgment, within
ten days thereafter. .

N.Y.Code,§189; §§83snd84discussed.

5 84. ‘Bail, how proceeded against.

If the bail neglect or refuse to pay the judgment within
ten days after they are finally charged, an‘ actjon may be
commenced against such bail for the amount of suchaoriginsl

judgment.

‘Amended 1854, 86.
N. Y.Gcde, § 190; 99 83nd Sidlscussed; Woody. Diet. .5011.‘ 67.3,
85. Bail, how exonerated.’

The bill mil also he exonerated ,1»); the death ofhe do;
fendant of his imprisontne1;it‘_in,_a,$tate'prison;_ qruhy 

legal discharge from the obligation to render —himaeLf amen’ ‘able to the process. p l

N. Y. Code, § 191.
§ 86. Delivery of undertaking to plaintzfl, and its acceptance

‘ orrejection by him.

Within the time limited for that purpose, the sheriff shall
file the order ‘of arrest in the oihce of - the clerk of the Court
in which the action is pending, with his return endorsed
thereon, together with a copy of the undertaking of the bail.
The. original undertaking he shall retain in his possession
until filed,as herein provided. The plaintifff, within ten days
thereafter, may serve upon‘ the sheriff a noticethat he does
not accept the bail, or he shall be deemed to havevaccepted
'them,,and' the sheriff shall be exonerated from liability. If

no notice be served within ten days, the original undertaking

shall be filed with the clerk of the Court. ‘
N. Y. Code, g 192.

§ 87. Notice ofju.stg')‘ication.l New undertakin_q,.z_°f -other bail.
- Within dve days after the receipt of notice,.the sheriff or

‘defendant may give to the plaintifff, or his attorney, notice of

the justification of the same, or other bail, (specifying the
places of residence and‘ occupations of the latter,) before a
Judge of the Court, or. County Judge, or.County Clerk, at a

‘specified time and place; the timertoabe not less than live,
‘nor more than ten days thereafter, except by consent of parties. In case other bail be given, there shall be a new

undertaking.
N. Y. Code, § 193.

§88.  of bail.
The qualifications ‘of bail shall be as follows:

1st. Each of them shall be a resident and ‘householder, or
freeholder, within the county ;

2d. Each shall be worth the amount specified in the order
of‘ arrest, or the amount to which '- the order is reduced, as
provided in this chapter, over and above all his debts and

‘liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution; but
the Judge, or County Clerk, on‘ justification, may allow more

than‘ two sureties to ‘ justify severally; in amounts less than

‘that expressed in ‘the "order, ' if the whole justincation be

equivalent to that of two sudicient 
N.Y.Code,§194., Seepost, teso.

5 89. Jushjicaaon and allowance of bail.

For the purpose of . justincation, each of the bail shall attend before the Judge, or County Clerk, at the time and place
mentioned in the. notice, and may be examined on oath, on
the part of the plaintifff, touching his snfliciency,_ in ‘such
manner as the Judge, or County Clerk, in his discretion, may
think proper. The examination shall be reduced to ifvriting,
and subscribed by the bail, if required bythe plaintifff.’ _

N.Y.C-ode,§l95. ' " - ' t — ’ a § 90.. Justification and allowance of bail.

If the Judge, or Clerk, find the .bail sudicient, he shall
annex the examination to the undertaking, indorse his allowance thereon, and cause them to be ‘{i1ed,"and the‘ sheriff shall

thereupon be exonerated from liability
N. Y. Code, § 196.

§'9l. Deposit qf money with shergf.

The defendant may, at the time of his arrest, instead of
giving bail, deposit with the sheriff the amount mentioned in
the.order. In case the amount of the bail be reduced, as
provided in, this chapter, the defendant may deposit such
amount instead of giving bail. ,In either case, the sheriff
shall give the defendant a certificate of the deposit made, and
the defendant shall be discharged, out of custody. ' 

N.Y.Code,§l97'." ~ ‘ ‘ W . .2 t. 

§ 92. -Payment of into ‘cm:  sherifg , _
_ The sheriff shall immediately after the deposit pay the same

': r
0-\ ’

.. F‘

_ into{Court,_and[take from the clerk‘ receiving the same, two.
certincates of such’ payment '- ‘the '_one of which he shall de~.

liver or transmit to the plaintiil','o1"' his attorney, and the other

to the defendant. For any default in making such"payment,

. - the‘ same proceedings maybe had"on ~the-otlicial b6nd"of the

she:-id‘, to collect the sum deposited, as in other-‘cases'cf de’linquency., - ' '9 ,_ e . ' - _,  ' ,*_

5 93. Substituting bail for deposit.

If money be deposited, as provided in the last two sections,
bail may be given, and may justify upon notice, at any time
before judgment; and on the filing of the undertaking and
justification with the Clerk, the money deposited shall be
refunded by such Clerk to the defendant.

N. Y. Code, § 199.

§ 94. Money deposited, how applied or disposed of.
Where money shall have been deposited, if it remain on
deposit at the time of the recovery of a judgment in favor

of the plaintifff, the Clerk shall, under the direction of the
Court, apply the same in satisfaction thereof; and alter satisfying the judgment, shall refund the surplus, if any, to the
defendant. If the judgment be in favor of the defendant,
the ‘Clerk shall, under like direction of the Court, refund to

him the whole sum deposited and remaining unapplied.
N. Y. Code, Q 900.

§95. Sherf,when ‘liable as bail,andlu'sd2kchargefrom liaIf, after being arrested, the defendant escape or be rescued,
the sherii shall himself be liable as bail; but he may discharge himself from such liability, by the giving and justi£cation of bail, at any time before judgment.

N. Y. Code, § 201.

596. Proceedings on judgment against shenfl

If a judgment be recovered against the Sherif, upon his
liability as bail, and an execution thereon be returned unsat.
isfied in whole or in part, the same proceedings may be had
on his oliicial bond, for the recovery of the whole or any

deficiency, as in other cases of delinquency.
N. Y. Code, 9 202.

5 97. Motioatovaoate ordcrof arrest, or reduce baaandapz.
davits on motion.

A defendant arrested may at any time before the justification of bail apply to the Judge who made the order, or the

Court in which the action is pending, upon reasonable notice

to the plaintiff to vacate the order of arrest, or to reduce the
amount of bail. If the application be made upon affidavits
on the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff
may oppose the same by affidavits or other proofs, in addition to those on which the order of arrest was made.

N. Y. Code, M 201, 205; Abb. Forms, 1322, 1327.

1. Whereaparty is oncesrrestedand discharged, he cannot be 

spin in the same action. l{c0ilvery v. Moorhead, 2 Cal. 607.

2.Apertywillbed1scherged' fromarrestwh the rocess,though
inforrmhasbeenissuedinanimpropercase.  105.345.

3. Onaruleto show cause why the mat , or bythe Court
on an allegation of fraud, should not be v the question of fact involved in it must be decided like any other (set, by the weight of evidence.
Bouthoorth v. Bering, 3 Cal. 378.

_4. The defendant on arrest, by putting in bail and neglecting to move to be

tsto d ' all ' ‘ti .Matoon
 processan waives previouszrregulsnes

§ 98. Wherrthe order vacated or bail reduced.

If upon such application it shall satisfactorily appear that
there was not sufficient cause for the arrest, the order shall

be vacated; or if it satisfactorily appear that the bail was
fixed too high, the amount shall be reduced.

[No decision in relation to “ arrests " has been rendered by the Supreme
Gourtlaterthenthstot Deviev. Bobiaeon,in100aL411.]
Abb. Forms, 1,327.

TITLE VI.
Cnsrrna 1I.—Claim and delivery of personal property.

Blane): 99. Delivery of rsonal property, when it may be claimed.

100. Amdavit its requisites.

101. Requisition to shenf to take and deliver the roperty.

102. Security on the part of the laintil and ju cation.

103. Exce tion to sureties proceedings thereon, or on

ure to except.

104. Defendant, when entitled to redslivery.

105. J ustincation of defendant's snreties.

106. Qualification and&ustiflcation of eureties. ‘
107. Przperty, how en, when concealed. in building or inosure

ms. '11 kept. . .
109. Claim 0 raw rty by third person.
110. Notice davit, when and where to boiled.

- S 99. Delivery of personal property, when it may be claimed.
The plaintiff, in an action to recover the possession of

§ 100. Ajidavit and its requisites. .

Where a delivery is claimed, an aiiidavit shall be made by
the plaintifff, or by some one in his behalf, showing :

lat. That the plaintifff is the owner of the property claimed,
(particularly describing it,) or is lawfully entitled to the possession thereof :

M. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant :_ *

8d. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, according
to his best knowledge, information, and belief:

4th. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to a statute; or seized under an execution, or an attachment against the property of the plaintifff ;
or if so seized, that it is by statute exempt from such seizure; and,

5th. The actual value of the property.

-N. Y. Code, § 207 ; Bancroft’s Forms, 600; Abb. Forms, 1462-1469.

§ 101. ‘Requisition to shmf to take and deliver the property.
' The plaintifff or his attorney may, thereupon, by an indorsement in writing upon the affidavit, req.uire the sheriff of
the county where the property claimed may be, to take the

same from the defendant. ‘

§ 102. ‘Security on the part of the plaintzf and justification.
Upon a receipt of the aiiidavit, and notice with a written

undertaking, executed by two or more sufiicient sureties,
approved by the sheriff to the effect that they are bound to

the defendant in double the value of the property as stated ‘

in the affidavit for the prosecution of the action, for the
return of the property to the defendants, if return thereof '
be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as may
from any cause be recovered against the plaintifff, the sheriff
shall forthwith take the property, described in the afridavit,
if it be in possession of the defendant or his agent, and retain
it in his custody. He shall also without delay serve on the
defendant 9. copy of the allidavit, notice and undertaking, by .
delivering the same to him personally if he can be found, or
to his agent, from whose possession the property is taken, or
if__neither can be found by leaving them at the usual place
of abode of either, with some person of suitable "age and discretion, or if neither have any known place of abode, by '
putting them in the nearest postoiiice, directed to the defendant.

 103. Exception to sureties and proceedings thereon, or i on
failure to accept. T _ ’
The defendant may, within two days after the service of -a

copy of the affidavit and undertaking, give notice to the
sheriff that he excepts to the sufficiency of the sureties. If he

fails to do so, he shall be deemed to have waived all objection‘
to them. When the defendant excepts, the sureties~ shall »

justify ‘ on notice in like manneras upon bail on arrest ;-and
the sheriff shall be responsible for the sufficiency of the

sureties until the objection to them is either waived, as above .
provided, or until they justify: If the defendant except to '

the sureties, he cannot reclaim the property as provided in

the next ‘section.
N. Y. Code, g21o.

§ 104-. Defendant, when .entitled to redelivery. . ’

«At any time before the‘ delivery, of J tjhe: property to the
plaintifff, the defendant may, if he do not except to the sureties of the plaintifff, require the return thereof, upon giving‘
to the sheriff a written undertaking, executed by two or more

sufiicient sureties, to the eR'ect that they are bound in double
the value of the property, as stated in the affidavit of the
plaintifff, for the delivery thereof to the plaintifff, if such de-’
livery be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum
as may, for any cause, he recovered against the defendant. If
a return of the property be not so required within five days
after the taking and service of notice to the defendant, it
shall be delivered to the plaintifff, except as provided in section one hundred and nine.

N. Y. Code, § 211; Bancroft’s Forms, 602; Abb. F., 1474-1475.

1. This bondis assignable the sheril. we v. Brooks, 3 Cal. 112.

2. In an action on this bon it must be all that the defendant neither
redelivered the property, nor paid the value thereof, as recited in the judgment. Niclcerson v. Chatta-ton, 7 Cal. 568; Chambers v. Waters, Id. 390.

3. In an action on a replevin bond, the defendant's liability is  to

tllie sustained by a failure to return the property. Hunt v. Robinson.

4. The sureties only bind themselves to make good any judgment that
 may lawfully obtain against defendant. Niclca-son v. ham:-ton, 7

5: The liability of the sureties cannot be more than the value of the progestysgged bythe judgment inthe original suit. Niclcersonv. Chatierton, 7

6. In an action against the sureties on replevin bond, it is necessary to
allege and rave that the proper? was delivered to the partyrequiring it, and
for whom e bond was given. d. 570.

7. Areplevin bondwas madetothe sberiffinsteadof the tobeprotectedby t, bymistake, andthen corrected; thisdidnotin datethe bond.
Turner v. Billagv-uni, 2 Cal. 522.

§ 105. Justification qf defendant’s sureties.
The defendant’s sureties, upon notice to the plaintifff of not
less than two or more than five days, shall justify before a

Judge or County Clerk, in the same manner as upon bail on

arrest; and upon such justification, the sheriff shall deliver
the property to the defendant. The sheriff shall be responsible for the defendant’s sureties until they justify, or until the
justification is completed or expressly waived, and may retain
the property until that time; if they, or others in their
place, fail to justify at the time and place appointed, he shall

deliver the property to the plaintifff. See post, § 650.
N. Y. Code, §202; Abb. Forms, 1,482.

§ 106. Qatalzjication and justification of sureties.
The qualification of sureties and their justification shall be
such as are prescribed by this Act, in respect to bail upon an

order of arrest.

§ 107. .Property, haw taken when concealed in building or enclosure.

If the property, or any part thereof, be concealed in a
building or enclosure, the sheriff shall publicly demand its
delivery; if it be not delivered, he shall cause the building
or enclosure to be broken open, and take the property into
his possession; and if necessary, he may call to his aid the
power of his county.

N. Y. Code, $214.

§ 108. Bvperty, how kept. ,

When the sheriff shall have taken property, as in this
chapter provided, he shall keep it in a secure place, and deliver it to the party entitled thereto, upon receiving his lawful fees for taking, and his necessary expenses for keeping
the same.

N. Y. Code, 6215.

§ 109. Claim of property by third person.

If the property taken be claimed by any other person than
the defendant or his agent, and such person make allidavit of
his title thereto, or right to (the) possession thereof, stating
the grounds of such title or right, and serve the same upon the
sheriff', the sheriff shall not be bound to keep the property,
or deliver it to the plaintifff, unless the plaintifff, on demand
of himor his agent, indemnify the sheriff' against such claim,
by an undertaking, by two sufficient sureties, accompanied by
their affidavits, that they are each worth double the value of
the property as specified in the affidavit of the plaintifff, over
and above their debts and liabilities, exclusive of property
exempt from execution, and are freeholders, or honse-holders in the. county ; and no claim to such property by any
other person than the defendant or his agent, shall be valid
against the sheriff, unless so made.

§ 110. ‘Notice  ajidauit, when and where to be filed. I

J‘ ‘ The sheriii‘ shall dle‘ the 'notice,‘undertaking, "and affidavit

with his proceedings thereon, with the Clerk of the Court in
‘which theaction is pending, within twenty days after taking
the property mentioned therein. a e

e ‘Amended 1854, 87. N. Y. Code, § 217.

T IT L E V I I.
Cn.u-run III.-—I1y'unction.

Sm-non 111. I 'unotion, what is and who may grant it.
. _ 112., on it may be granted. ,
113. At what time it may be granted, and what is required to
obtain’ t. .
114. Injunction after answer.
115. Security upon injunction. Damages, how ascertained.
116. Order to show cause why injunction should not be ted.
117. 'unction to suspend business of a corporation, ‘ow and
y whom granted.
118. Motion to vacate or modify in ction. ~- ~ -‘ 119. When to be vacated or modih

§111. Injunction, what is and who may grant it.

An injunction is a writ or order, requiring a person to refrain from a particular act. The order or writ, may be
granted by the Court in which the action isabrought, or by a
Judge thereof, or by a County Judge ; andwhen made by a
Judge, may be enforced as the order of the Court.

5 112. When it may be granted.

An injunction may be granted in the following cases :

lst. When it shall appear by the complaint that the plaintifff is entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief, or any
part thereof, consists in restraining the commission or continuance of the act complained of, either for a limited period
or perpetually:

2d. When it shall appear by the complaint or atildavit that
the commission or continuance of some act during the litigation would produce great or irreparable injury to the plaintifff:

3d. When it shall appear during the litigation that the defendant is doing, or threatens, or is about to do, or is procuring or suffering to be done, some act in violation of the plaintin‘ ’s rights, respecting the subject of the action, and tending
to render the judgment ineffectual. '§ 113. At what timeit may begranted and what is required to
obtain it. a

The injunction may be granted at the time of issuing the
summons upon the complaint ; and at any time afterwards,
before judgment, upon affidavits. The complaint in the one‘
case, and the affidavits in the other, shall show satisfactorily
that sufficient grounds exist therefore, N o injunction shall be
grantedon the complaint, unless it be verified by the oath of
the plaintifff, or some one in his behalf, that he, the person
making the oath has read the complaint, or heard the complaint read, and knows the contents thereof, and the same is
true of his own knowledge, except the matters therein stated
on information and belief, and that as to those matters he believes it to be true. When granted on-the’ complaint, 9. copy
of the complaint and verification attached shall be served

‘with ehe‘iu5em':eee ; whee; game‘ * ' “a iipoii ililiifaivit, tad copy or
the affidavit shall be served ivith the injunction.
i!'vYri.::a°’mwemng”2b" ord inj cti issought” "us  
. a or or an un on upon e com
itseltit is e usual gractioe to pre_sent_the __oo plaint, in advance of the aling, to’ the , an obtain the order or the loiunce of the writ: andsuoh
mwlg , and not in conflict with our statute. Heyman v. Loaders,"

2. In such case the order not take efect until the  the complaint
mgéi°mdmn3n“ilqmr°d'§q'mjun'ee hasbeeni ed’ the cue
. woman on , ssu ,1s_no un
obey it$g e'mmm  on  Giving him verbal notice that
anlorda  been msde.is not snmbient. Elliottv.  ‘I

4.’ t seems’. H‘ ' ifh   bein  at theitime an iniunction order  inadegd tgus has per-s3nalIl(:1nowledge of the order, that he would bebound hieroBennett.‘  ~,,  V‘,
_ 5. inj, ction order, and due Beririce thereof on theparty enjoined, do
groper-al_,etoen:'la'rgetheti1_ne ‘thin whiehanactisreqmredtobedone by
- P““Y§°“"’-‘3.‘h.°.."-’d°"' d‘ e '. ‘ .. ~  ..- . e

6. The tute points out no mode for service ofpan lngunction; hut in ‘con-I

{ormi with the [ _'sion relative to the summons, dehvery of_a copy is es' ' to parse service where that is required; [but whether it would 
 to exhibit a the original, unless specially requested by, th3’e8J>arty

no opinion is here expressed.  y. Mason, 16 Cal. . ,
. 7. A Jrritplseed ' ‘thesherifs hands on Sunday cannot be omcially re-'
rived by mm on t day. It can onl , be considered omcially in his hands
‘hen Sunday has expired.’  ir. , 13 Cal. 835.

8. when p'Inb?doitIBdéVlb.—Tho is  to an injunction 
the time of issuing the summons ‘on the complaint alone, if it makes ‘a proper
eaIe,Ind ls verified in the manner stated invthe 113th section; but if he asks
for an injunction at an time thereafter, he must do so upon «meme. Fhlb-'
ulhi-ydatf. Luoyet .; A. '1‘. 1868.

§ 114. Injunction after answer. ‘

An injunction shall not be allowed after the defendant has
answered, unless upon notice-, or upon an order to show cause;
but in 81101! case the defehdaht may be féétrhined lliltil H16
decision. of the Court or Judge granting or refusing the injunction.

N.Y.Code,§221. . _ . e ,

1. When thennswertohhillforanininnetion dMesm tz, ifan ,
:ICt‘l:lel4>‘i11’l,apu-eliminaryinjunotion should newegmntea. ’ .W‘oo¢£
, 2. ‘When the eqasaee er a complaint ere iuny aeeieaty enaevice be the’ fare
of defendant, an application fortixi injunbtion,  lite, should be aemed.
Gaglaardo‘ ' i V. Orippe-n,’ 22 Cal. 362.

5 115. .s'eeunzy° upmmjuneabn. Damag" és, hoib aeeerzamet ‘ ' ’

On granting an injunction, the Court or J edge shall require,
except where thepeople of the State are a party plaintiii’, a
fwritten undertaking, on the part of the plaintill‘, with mm:
cient sureties, to the esee: that the pleaneis will pay to the

i § 117. ‘Injunction to suspendbusiness 0}‘. a 
grid by whom granted.

An injunction to suspend the general and ordinary busi-,
peas of a corporation shall not be granted except by the
Court or a Judge thereof ; nor shall it be granted without
due notice of the application therefore to the proper officers
or managing agent of the corporation, exceptwhpn the people of this State are a party to the proceeding.

‘aggigtlcsrfs   over corporations, "for aparot’  their opelflmons or winding up their concerns.
' urt may compel the officera of the corporation to account for any breach
trust, but the!‘ jurisdiction for this p is over the omoeru personally, and
not over the corporatipn. New y. H‘ 16.  14.6.

§ 118. Motion to vacate or 

If an injunction be granted without notice, the defendant,
at any time before the trial may. apply upon reasonable notice
to the Judge who granted the injunction, or to the  
which the action is brought, to dissolve or modify the same.
The application may be made upon the complaint  the
affidavit on which the injunction was granted, or. upon 
Nit on the part of the defendant, with or without the answer.
If the application be made upon affidavits" on the part of
the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose
the same by atiidayits, or other evidence, in addition to those
99 -W1?i¢,h.‘.l!9.§"5P9€t.i°9 was grantedQ

TITLE VIII.

OF THE ATTACHMENT REMEDIES IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

Cnarrna . IV .-.--Attachment. ‘

8:01:10: 120. Attachment, when and in what cases may issue.

121. Amdavit for attachment, what to contain.

122. Undertaking on attachment.

123. Writ, to whom directed and what to state.

124. Shares of stock and debts due defendant, how attached and
disposed of.

125. How real and personal roperty shall be attached.

126. Attorney to give written struction to sheriff what to attach.

127. Garnishment, when garnishee liable to plaintifff.

128. Citation to garnishee to appear before a Court or judge.

129. Inventory, how made; party refusing to give memorandum
may be compelled to pay costs.

130. Perishablgproperty, how sold. Accounts without suit to be
collec .

131. When property claimed by a third part , how tried.

132. If plaintii obtains judgment, how satis ed.

133. When there remains a balance due, how collected.

134. When suits may be commenced on the undertaking.

135. If defendant recover judgment, what the sherin’ is to deliver.

136. Proceedings to release attachment, before whom taken.

137. Attachment, in what cases it may be released and upon what
terms. .

138. When a motion to discharge attachment may be made, and
upon what grounds. .

139. Whsen motion made on affidavit; it may be opposed by am

avit.
140. When writ shall be discharged. ,
141. When writ to be returned. To what debts these sections

apply.
§ 120. ‘Attachment, when and in what cases may issue.(a.)
The plaintifff, at the time of issuing his summons, or at any

fine afterward, may have the property of the defendant attached as securityfor the satisfaction of any judgment that

may be recovered, unless the defendant give security to pay§ 121. ‘Ajidavit for attachment, what to contain.

The Clerk of the Court shall issue the writ of attachment

upon receiving an affidavit by, or on behalf of the plaintifff,
which shall be filed, showing :

lst. That the defendant is indebted to the plaintid (speci' fying the amount of such indebtedness, over and above all

legal set-offs or counterclaims), upon a contract, express or
implied, for the direct payment of money, and that such con, tract was made or is payable in this State, and that the payment of the same has not been secured by any mortgage,
lien, or pledge, upon real and personal property: or,

2d. That the defendant is indebted to the plaintid (specifying the amount of such indebtedness as near as may be,
over and above all legal set»otl's or counterclaims), and that
the defendant is a non-resident of the State: and,

3d. That the sum for which the attachment is asked is an
actual bonajidc existing debt, due and owing from the defendant to the plaintid, and that the attachment is not sought and

the action is not prosecuted to hinder, delay, or defraud, any
creditor or creditors of the defendant.

1 Amended, 1853, 277; 1858, 153; 1860, 301. Baneroft’s Forms, 496-499;
Abb. Forms, 1367-1374; Clerk to indorse the anldavit. See Rule XLII for
San Francisco.

1. The fact that an affidavit for an attachment omits to aver that the sum
for which the writ is asked is “an actual bona jide existing debt, due and

' owing from the defendant to the plaintifff, and that the attachment is not

sou t and the action is not prosecuted to hinder, delay or defraud any
‘tor or creditors of the debtor,” does not render the attachment issued a
nc1;ll]ity £5 against subsequent attaching creditors. Fridenberg v. Pierson, 18
. 15
8. A junior attaching creditor cannot take advantage of irregularities in the
affidavit or bond given by a prior attaching creditor of a common debtor. Id.
3. An athdavit or attachment is insudicient, which avers that the defendant
is indebted to the plaintiff upon an express or implied contract. Hawtey v.
Batman, 4 Cal. 195.
4. A pledge of personal progrty is a “mortgage," within the mea ' of

the Attachment Act. the word ing there used in its most general ’ ' can

uon, meaning “ security.” Payne v. Beasley, 8 Cal. 260.

§ 122. Undertaking an attachment.

Before issuing the writ, the clerk shall require a written
undertaking on the part of the plaintifff. in a sum not less
than two hundred dollars,‘ not exceeding the amount claimed
by the plaintifff, with sufficient sureties, to the effect that if

f’123.“Writ,towhoma1idwhattostalc. * »

The writ shall be directed to the sheriff of any county in
which property of such defendant may be, and require him
to attach and safely keep all the property of such defendant
within his county, not exempt from execution, or so much
thereof as may be sumcient-to satisfy the plaintih"s demand,
the amount of which shall be stated in conformity with the
complaint, unless the defendant give him security by the un' dertalting of at least two sudicient sureties in an amount sufhcient to satisfy such demand, besides costs, or in any amount
equal to the value of the property which has been, or is about
to be, attached; in which case, to take such undertaking.
Several writs may be issued at the same time to the sheriffs

of different counties.

137"Ansaded 1860, 315; See § 650; Bauer-oft’s Form, 607, 513; Abh. Forlln,

§124. Sharesofstockanddeblsdzwdlgfendantmay be atlaclwdandsold.

The rights or shares which the defendant may have in the

' stock of any corporation or company, together with the inteest and profit thereon, and all debts due such defendant, and
all other property in this State of such defendant not exempt

from execution, may be attached, and if judgment be recovered, be sold to satisfy the judgment and execution.

§ [Sec]tions 124 to 141, inclusive, made applicable to Justices’ Courts ; see past,
555.

1. Funds in the hands of a receiver, pointed by a com etent Court, are not
liable to attachment. Adams 17. Has , 6 Cal. 113; Y Oounly v. Adams,

7 Oal. 35.
2. Where an attachment was issued by the Court of nrst instance against the

property of a debtor, and the sheriff had executed the same, and was ordered
to make the amount due the creditor out of the goods, chattels and property of
die debtor: Held, that the sherid could not maintain an action in his own name
to recover I sum owing to the attachment debtor by a third person, for goods

sold and delivered. Bublsue v. Melhado, I CaL 104.

‘ § 125. Writ, haw executed.

The sheriff to whom the writ is directed and delivered,
shall execute the same without delay, and if the undertaking
mentioned in section one hundred and twenty-three be not
given, as follows:

lst. -Real property standing upon the records of the county,

‘ in the name of the defendant, shall be attached, by leaving a

copy of the writ with an occupant thereof ;‘ or, if there be no

occupant, by posting a copy in a conspicuous place thereon, ‘

and filing a copy, together with a description of the property
attached with the recorder of the county.

2d. Real property, or any interest therein, belonging to the
defendant, and held by any other person, or standing on the
records of the county in the name of any other person, shall

be attached by leaving with such person, or his agent, a copy’
“of the writ, and a notice that such real property, (giving a

description thereof), and any interest therein, belonging to
the defendant, are attached pursuant to such writ, and filing

.a copy of such writ and notice with the recorder of the county,

and leaving a copy of such writ and notice with an occupant
of such property, or, if there be no occupant, by posting a
copy thereof in a conspicuous place thereon. a

3d. Personal property, capable of manual delivery, shall
be attached, by taking it into custody. .

4th. Stock, or shares or interest in stock, or shares of any
corporation or company, shall be attached, by leaving with
the president, or other head of the same, or the secretary,
cashier, or other managing agent thereof, a copy of the writ,
and a notice stating that the stock or interest of the defend_ant is attached, in pursuance of such writ.

5th. Debits and credits, and other personal property, not
capable of manual delivery, shall be attached by leaving with
the person owing such debts, or having in his possession, or
under his control, such credits and other personal property:
or with his agent, a copy of the writ, and a notice that the
debts owing by him to the defendant, on the credits and other
personal property in his possession, or under his control, helonging to the defendant, are attached in pursuance of such
writ.

to ‘the defendant, or ‘is -owing any debt to the defendant, the
sheriff shall serve upon such person a copy of the writ, and
a notice that such credits, or other property or debts, as the
case may be, are attached in pursuance of such writ.

£127. Ga.-nubhmenl, when gurniehee liable to plaintgf.

All persons having in their possession, or under their control, any-credits -or other personal property belonging to the
defendant, or owing any debts to the defendant at the time of
service upon tbemof a copy of the writ and notice, as provided in the last two sections, shall be, unless such property

be delivered up or transferred, or such debts be paid to the
sheriff, liable to the plaintid, for the amount of such credits,

property, or debts, until the attachment be discharged, or
any  recovered by him be satisfied. '

§ 128. ‘Citation to garnishee to appear before a Court orJudge.
Any person owing debts to the defendant, or having in his

A possession or under his control any credits or other personal

property belonging to the defendant, may be required to attend before the Court or Judge, or a referee appointed by

i the Court or Judge, and be examined on oath respecting the

same. The defendant may also be required to attend for the
purpose of giving information respecting his property, and
may be examined on oath. The Court or Judge may, after
such examination, order personal property capable of manual
delivery, to be delivered to the sheriff on such terms as may
be just, having reference to any liens thereon, or claims
against the same, and a memorandum to be given of all other

personal property, containing the amount and description
thereof.

§ 129., Inventory; how made, etc.

The sheriff shall make a full inventory of ' the property at.
tachcd-, and return the same with the writ. To enable him
to make such return as to debts and credits attached, he shall
request, at‘ the time of service, the party owing the debt, or
having the credit, to give him a memorandum stating. the
amount and description of each ; and if such memorandum
be refused, he shall return the fact of refusal with the writ.
The party refusing to give the memorandum may be required
to: pay the costs of any proceedings taken for the purpose o£~
obtaining information respecting the amounts and description
of such debtor credit-.

Abb. Forms, 1378.

5 130% Perishablepropcrty; how sold, etc.

If any of the property attached be, perishable, the sheriff
shall sell the same» in the manner in which such property is
sold on execution. The proceeds, and other property attached by him, shall be retained by him to answer any judgment that. may be recovered in the action-, unless sooner
subjected to execution upon another judgment. recovered.
previous to the issuing of the attachment. Debts and credits

attachodimayrheecoliectedi by him.,if the. same can. be, done:

5181.  where property is claimed by Ucirdpersom-i
If any personal property attached he claimed by a,thir.d»
person as his property, the sheriff may summon ajury of six
men to try the validity of such claim; and such proceedings
shall be had thereon, with the like edect, as in case of a
claim after levy upon execution.
IIe§118astothelawandp1-aotice.‘

1.Whe1-epro attachediaelaimedhyathirdvpemomtheahaifmay
petsethimself oreamof sixpersons,andif-theverdictbe favor of

, in
the claimant,,he_ may re uish the levy, unless  If he. just
dlehond of the Indemnity, It will only enure to the benedt of the owner of

the , for the hieh nit fro his acts are
mm” .... D-:.,t..o:,.m..°°"72“a:1f°'22:. *°° '“ °"

I. hsueheaee, thesttaching creditors do not stand inthe positionofjoint

, theseizmnotthsseomulbeinsmbjedtothenut. Id '
3. admission that the property is attached or levied upon as the cpmty
of the debtor, and the mile of the owner to deliver it to the officer. to
prinafaeie evidence 0 ownership in the debtor, and unlessovercolne b proof

I113 0,5 “I0 claimant. must be decisive against him. Blwanv. , 10
ii». 123.“ I

4. ‘I9 overcome. this primafaeie ownership in the debtor, the receiptor must

Eve two Eliingsz lint, that he claimed the, p!'°P°’ty; seconds that line in feet.
0'11.

5. Whae property has been In-ongfullytakenunder attachment, the sheriffand

&attaehingc1-editorsarejoint trespassers. Lqwtov. -lohnaetala. Jan. '1‘.

Q 132. .0‘ plaintzf recavcrjudgvmmt, how sati.s_/led.

If‘ judgment be recovered by the plaintifff, the..eh.en'if shall
satisfy the same out of the property attached by him which
has not been delivered to the defendant, or a claimant as.
hereinhefore provided, or subjected to execution on another

Judgment recovered previous to the issuing of the attachment, if it he suilicient for that purpose :

Ist.-‘By paying to the plaintifff the proceeds of all sales of
perishable property sold by him, or of any debts or, credits
collected by him, or so muchias shall be necessary to satisfy
the judgment: ,

2d. If any balance remain due, and an execution shall have
been issued Qnthe. judgment, he shall sell under the execution so much of the property, real or personal, as may be
necessary to satisfy the balance, if .enough for that purpose
remain in his hands. Notices of the-sales shall be given, and
the sales conducted as in other cases of sales on execution.

1. The application of an attaching creditor to compel the sheriff to pay

over the proceeds of ods attached, there being conflicting claims between
several attaching ‘tors, may be made by motion. If notice of the motion
is not given, by the party moving, to the other attachingmcgeditors, it is the
duty of the sheriff to do so, if he wishes the decision to ' them. Dicey Y.
Pollock, 8 Cal. 570.

§ 133. Balance remaining clue, how collected.

_If, after selling all the property attached by him remaining
in his hands, and applying the proceeds, together with the
proceeds of any debts or credits collected by him, deducting
his fees, to the payment of the judgment, any balance shall
remain due, the sheriff shall proceed to collect such balance

as upon an execution in other cases. Whenever the judgment shall have been paid, the sheriff, upon reasonable demand, shall deliver over to the-defendant the attached pro- ‘

perty remaining in his hands, and any proceeds of the
property attached unapplied on the judgment.

§ 134. When an action may be commenced on the undertaking.

If thelexecution be returned unsatisfied in whole or in part,
the plaintifff may prosecute any undertaking given pursuant
to section one hundred and twenty-three or section one hundred and thirty-seven, or he may proceed as in other cases
upon the return of an execution.

1. The undertaking only operated to release the roperty from the custody
of the sheriff pending the suit, and not as an substitution of security.
Lowcv. Adams, 6 Cal. 277.

§ 135. If the defendant recover judgment, what the chem’ is
to deliver. a

If the defendant recover judgment against the plaintid
any undertaking received in the action, all the proceedsof
sales and money collected by the sheriff, and all the property
attached remaining in the sheriii"s hands, shall be delivered
to the defendant or his agent; the order of attachment shall
be discharged, and the property released therefrom.

,§ 136. Proceedings to release attachment, before whom taken.
Whenever the defendant shall have appeared in the

aet1'on,he may, upon reasonable notice to the plaintifff, apply

to the Court in which the action is pending, or to the Judge
thereof, or to a County Judge, for an order to discharge the
attachment wholly or in part, and upon the execution of the
undertaking mentioned in the next section, such order
may be granted, releasing from the operation of the attachment any or all of the property attached, and all of the
property so released, and all of the proceeds of the sales
thereof, be delivered to the defendant, upon the justification of the sureties on the undertaking, if required bythe
plaintifff.

Amended 1854, 87; 1863, 305. Abb. Fonns, 1382-1383.

§ 137. ‘Attachment, in what cases it may be released, and upon
ulna! terms. ‘

Before the granting such order, the Court or Judge shall re.
quire an undertaking on behalf of the defendant, by at least two
sureties, residents and freeholders or householders in the
county, to the effect that in case the plaintifff recover judgment
in the action, defendant will, on demand, redeliver such attached property so released, to the proper oiiicer, who applied
to the payment of the judgment, and that in default thereof the
defendant and sureties will on demand pay to the plaintiff
the full value of the property released. The Court or Judge
granting such release may fix the sum for which the undertaking shall be executed, and if necessary in fixing such sum
to know the value of the property released, the same may be
appraised by three disinterested persons to be appointed for
that purpose. The sureties maybe required to justify before
the Court or Judge, and the property attached shall not be
released from the attachment without their justification, if
the same be required.

§ 138. ‘ When a motion to discharge attachment may be made,

‘and zgpon what grounds. }

The defendant may also, any time before the time for an.swering expires, apply, on motion, upon reasonable notice to
the plaintifff, to the Court in which the action is brought, or

to the Judge thereof, or to a County Judge, that the attachment be discharged, on the ground that the writ was improperly or irregularly issued.

‘Amended 1854, 87 ; 1858, 153; 1860, 301. Abb. Forms, 1382-1383.

1. The one hundred and thirty-eighth section of the Practice Act, which
provides that the defendant may, at any time before answering, “ a pl , on
motion, a n reasonable notice to the plaintii, to the Court in w the
actionis rowortothe Judge thereof,ortoaCountyJu thatthe
attachment he ' harged, on the ground that the writ was improper yissued,"
does not obviate the necessity e s  the 'cular ints of irregularity u n which the motion will be e. F win, 7. Glaser, 10
Cal. . '
2. A notice of motion to discharge a writ of attachment, “ because the said
writ was im roperly issued.” is insumcient. The notice should  the
grounds of 518 motion, andwherein itwill be urged that the wntwas imp
properly issued. Id. .

3. See care, 120, for instances where an attachment might not to issue.
Insuchcases eattachmentwillbedieoharged. ,.

5139. ‘Whenthemotion ismade on the ajidavits, 
opposed by ajidavits.
If the motion be made upon affidavits, on the part of the

defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose the

mine by affidavits or other evidence, in addition to those on

which the attachment was made.

.§ 140. ’ When the writ shall be discharged.

If, upon such application, it shall satisfactorily appear that
he writ of attachment was ‘improperly or irregularly issued,
it shall be discharged.

‘Amended 1858, 154; 1860, 302.

1. See§120, auto, note, “When attachment cannot issue.”

2. Action commenced by attachment to recover an alleged indebtedness, and
defendants made default; before the entry of  n§ certain su cent
attaching creditors intervened and contested the 'dity cf the ' til!‘ s attachment, on the ground that no debt was really due from Phil! to defendants. On the issue thus raised, the Court found in favor of the intervenorn.
‘and thereu 11 entered an order setting aside the attachment of plaintil.
Held, ‘that e order was erroneous in entirely setting aside plaintifff ‘s attachment, and mustbe modified so as mere! to postpone the plaintifff's lien to
that of the intervenors. v. , 21 Cal. 280.

3. If the defendant dies af the levy of an attachment upon his plrzgerty
and before judgment, his death destro the lien, of the attachment, the
attached passes into thehan of the administrator to be administsredcn coursecfadrninistration. ]{cycrsv..l{ott,29Gal.359.

§c141. Whenthewrit is to be returned. Towhatdebts these
sections apply.

The sheriff shall return the writ of attachment with the
summons, if issued at the same time; otherwise, within
twenty days after its receipt, with a certificate of his pro~
ceedings indorsed thereon, or attached thereto. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any suits already com
menced, but so far as such suits may be concerned, the Act
entitled “An Act to regulate Proceedings-against Debtors by
Attachment,” passed April 22d, 1850, shall be deemed in full
force and effect.

T I T L E I X.
Cums V.—Deposit in Court.

Btc-non 142. Deposit in Court. I43. Appointment ofjreoeiver.

‘ 5142. Deposit in Court.

When it is admitted, by the pleading or examination of a
party, that he has in his possession, or under his control, any
money, or other thing, capable of delivery, which, being the
subject of the litigation, is held by him as trustee for another
party,or which belongs,,or is due, to another party, the Court
may order the same, upon motion, to be deposited in Cou_rt,_
or delivered to such party, upon such conditions as may be

just, subject to the further direction of the Court.
lI.Y.Gode 9 244, sub. 5.

§ 143. ‘Appointment of receiver.

A receiver may be ‘appointed by‘ the Court in which the
action is pending, or by a Judge thereof.

let. Before judgment, provisionally on the application of
either party when he establishes a prima facie right to the
property, or to an interest in the property, [which] is the
subject of the action, and which is in possession of an adverse
party, and the property or its rents and profits are in danger
of being lost or materially injured or impaired.

2d. After judgment to dispose of the property according
to the judgmeut,.or to preserve it during the pending of an
appeal, and, ‘

3d. In such other cases as ‘are in accordance with the practice of Courts of equity jurisdiction.

§ 148. Action may be dismissed or nonsuit enwred.

An action may be dismissed or a judgment of nonsuit entered in the following cases :

1st. By the plaintiff himself, at any time before trial, upon.

the payment of costs, if a counterclaim has not been made.

.If a provisional remedy has been allowed, the undertaking

shall thereupon be delivered by the clerk to the defendant,
who may have his action thereon :
2d. By either party, upon the written consent of the

other :
8d. By the Court, when the plaintifff fails to appear on the

trial, and the defendant appears and asks for the dismissal:
4th. By the Court, when upon the trial, and before the
final submission of the case, the plaintifff abandons it:

' § 149. Judgment on the merits, when.
In every case, other than those mentioned in the last section, the judgment shall be rendered on the merits.

T I T L E X I .
CHAPTER II.—Judgment upon failure to anmoer.

81:0. 150. In what cases judgment may be had upon the failure of the defendant to answer.

Judgment may be had, if the defendant fail to answer the
complaint, as follows’:

lst. In an action arising upon contract for the recovery of
money or damages only, if no answer has been filed with the

Clerk of the Court within the time specified in the summons,
or such further time as may have been granted, the Clerk,
upon application of the plaintiff, shall enter the default
of the defendant, and immediately thereafter enter judgment
for the amount specified in the summons, including the costs,
against the defendant, or against one or more of several defendants in the cases provided for in section thirty-two:

2d. In other actions, if no answer has been filed with the

Clerk of the Court within the time specified in the summons, 'or such further time as may have been granted, the Clerk
shall enter the default of the defendant ; and thereafter the

plaintifff may apply at the first or any subsequent term of the '

Court for the relief demanded in the complaint. If the taking of an account, or the proof of any fact, be necessary to

enable the Court to give judgment, or to carry the judgment A

into effect, the Court may take the account or hear the proof;
or- may, in its discretion, order a reference for that purpose.
And where the action is for the recovery of damages, in

whole or in part, the Court maykorder the damages to be as- '

sessed by a jury ; or if, to determine the amount of damages,
the examination of a long account be necessary, by a reference as above provided:

3d. In actions, where the service of the summons was by
publication, the plaintifff, upon the expiration of the time designated in the order of publication, may, upon proof of the
publication, and that no answer has been filed, apply for
judgment; and the Court shall thereupon require proof to
be made of the demand mentioned in the complaint; and if
the defendant be not a resident of the State, shall require
the plaintifff or his agent to be examined on oath, respecting
any payments that have been made to the plaintifff, or to any

one for his use, on account of such demand, and may render
Judgment for the amount which he is entitled to recover.

T I T L E X I I .
Czurrnn HI.—0f issues, and the manner of their disposition.

Snonox 151. Issue defined, and their diiferent kinds.

152. Issue of law, how raised.

153. Issue of fact, how raised.

154. Issue of law. how tried.

155. Issue of fact, how tried ; when issues both of law and fact,
the former to be first disposed of.

156. Clerks shall enter causes on the calendar, and to remain
until disposed of.

157. Parties may bring issue to trial.

158. Motions to postpone on grounds of absence of evidence,
requisites of.

§ 151. Issue defined, and their diferent kinds.

An issue arises when a fact or conclusion of law is maintained by the one party, and is controverted by the other..

Issues are of two kinds:
1st. Of law: and,

2d. Of fact.
N. Y. Code, $248.

§ 152. ‘Issues of law, haw raised.

An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the complaint.

or answer (or) to some part thereof.
A ‘Amended 1354. as. N. Y. Code, § 249.

§ 153. ‘Issues of fact, how raised.

An issue of. fact arises,

1st. Upon a material allegation in the complaint controverted by the answer; and,

2d. Upon new matters in the answer except an issue of law

is joined therein. ,
‘Amended 1854, 88. N. Y. Code, § 250.

1. If the plaintiff, in his complaint in ejectment, avers title in himself, and the
defendant inter-poses a general denial, the respective titles of the plaintifff and
defendant are put in issue. Harshall V. Shaffer, 32 Cal. 176.

§ 154. Issue of law, how tried.
An issue of law shall be tried by the Court, unless it _be
referred, upon consent, as provided in chapter six of this title.

I §156. . Clerk shall enter causes an the calendar, to remain
until disposed of.

The Clerk shall enter causes upon the calendar of the,

Court, according to the date of issue. Causes once placed
on the calendar for a general or special term, if not tried or
heard at such term, shall remain upon the calendar from
Court to Court, until finally disposed of.

N. Y. Code, 6 256.

§ 157. Parties may bring issue to trial.

Either party may bring the issue to trial, or to a hearing,
and in the absence of the adverse party, unless the Court
for good cause otherwise direct, may proceed with his case,
and take a dismissal of the action, or a verdict or judgment,

as the case may require. ’

§ 158. Motions to postpone a trial for absence of testimony,
 of.

A motion to postpone a trial on the ground of the absence of
evidence, shall only be made upon affidavit, showing the ma-.
teriality of the evidence expected to be obtained, and that
due diligence has been used to procure it. The Court may
also require the moving party to state, upon aliidavit, the
evidence which he expects to obtain; and if the adverse
party thereupon admit that such evidence would be given,
and that it be considered as actually given on the trial, or
offered and overruled as improper, the trial shall not be postponed.

‘TITLE XIII.
lvomurrxon on THE mar.

CHAPTER I'V.—Trial by Jury.

Sncnox 159. Jury, how drawn, and how many to consist of.
160. Jury to be sworn.

161. Chio;|lenges,'each party: entitled to four peremptory chalnges. '

162. (irounds of challe .
163. To be tried by the ourt. Witnesses may be examined. ’

§ 159. Jury, how drawn, and how many to consist of.

b When the actionris called for trial by jury, the clerk shall
prepare separate ballots containing the names of _the jurors
summoned who have appeared and not been excused, and
deposit them in a box. He shall then draw from the box
twelve names, andvthe persons whose names are drawn shall
constitute the jury. If the ballots become exhausted before
the jury is complete, or if from any cause a. juror, or jurors,
be excused or discharged, the sheriff shall summon, under the
direction of the Court, from the citizens of the county and not
from bystanders, so many qualified persons as may be necessary to complete the jury. The jury shall consist of twelve
persons, unless the parties consent to aless number. The
parties may consent to any number not less than three.
Such consent shall be entered by the clerk in the minutes of
the trial.

jurors, and shall either be peremptory, or for cause. Each
party shall be entitled to four peremptory challenges.

' 1. Where several defendant are tried together, they are not allowed to
sever their challenges, but all must join therein. This a lies as well to perunptory as to ohal enges for cause. People v. .llc0al1a, al. 303.

§ 162. ‘Grounds of chalknge.

Challenges for cause may be taken on one or more of the
following grounds:

lst. A want of any of the qualifications prescribed by
statute to render a person competent as a juror.

2d. Consauguinity or atlinity, within the third degree, to I

either party.
3d. Standing in the relation of guardian and ward, master

and servant, employer and clerk, or principal and agent, to

either party, or being a member of the family of either
party, or a partner in the business with either party, or being security on any bond or obligation for either party.

4th. Having served as a juror or been a witness on a
previous trial between the same parties for the same cause of
action.

5th. Interest on the part of the juror in the event of the
action or in the main question involved in the action, except
the interest of the juror as a member or citizen of a munici‘pal corporation.

6th. Having formed or expressed an unqualified opinion
or belief as to the merits of the action.
7th. The existence of a state of mind in the juror evincing enmity against, or bias to, either party.

TITLE XIV.

CONDUCT OF THE TRIAL.

Section 164. Proceedings in case a (juror become sick. _'
165. Charge to the jury; ourt shall_ furnish in wriing, upon
request, the points of law contained therein.
166. Jo? may decide in Court, or retire for deliberation. Duty
0 the oilicer in cha

167. Jury may take with m certain papers.

168. May come into Court for further instructions.

169. When jury are prevented from giving verdict. the comm
ma he again tried. "

170. Whi a jury are absent the Court may adjourn from time
tr; time. Sealed verdict Final adjournment dischargq
t a jury. J

171. The jury having agreed upon a verdict, shall declare the

me

sa . r
17 2. Informal or insumcient verdict may be corrected uudq
advice of the Court. ,
173. Verdict shall be recorded in full in the minutes.

§ 164. Proceedings in case a juror become sick.

If, after the impanneling of the jury, and before verdictga
juror become sick, so as to be unable to perform his duty, the
Court may order him to be discharged. In that case the trial
may proceed with the other jurors, or a new jury may be
sworn, and the trial begin anew; or the jury may be 
charged, and a new jury then or afterwards impanneled.

1. The withdrawal of a ‘uror and the continuance of a case thereh , is no‘

grgulnd for reversing a ju ent subsequently obtained. Benedict v. ensue,‘
a . 381. s

4
5

§ 165. Charge to the jury; Court shall furnish in writing, a

upon request, the points of law contained therein. i

In charging the jury the Court shall state to them 
matters of law which it thinks necessary for their informs.-,
tion in giving their verdict; and if it state the testimony of
the case, it shall also inform the jury that they are the exalt».
sive judges of all questions of fact. The Court shall fur
nish to either party, at the time, upon request, a statement
in writing of the points of law contained in the charge; or
shall sign, at the time, a statement of such points prepared
and submitted by the counsel of either party.

§ 166. The jury may decide in Court, or retire for deliberation.
Duty of ajicer in charge.

After hearing the charge, the jury-may either decide in
Court, or retire for deliberation. If ‘theyeretire, they shall
be kept together in a room provided for them, or some other
convenient place, under the charge of one or more officers,
until they agree upon their -verdict,’ or are discharged by the
Court. The officer shall, to the utmostof his ability, keep
the jury together, separate from otherpersons ; he shall not
suffer any communication to be made to them, or make any
himself, unless by order of thn Court. except to ask them if
they have agreed upo°n their verdict ; and he shall not, before the verdict is rendered, communicate to any person the
state of their deliberations, or the verdict agreed upon.

§ 167. Jury may take with them certain papers.

Upon retiring for deliberation the jury may take with them
all papers (except depositions), which have been received as
evidence in the cause, or copies of such papers as ought not,
in the opinion of the Court, to be taken from the person having them in possession: and they may also take with them
notes of the testimony, or other proceedings on the trial, taken

by themselves, or any of them ; but none taken by any other
person. ‘

§ 168. May come into Court for further instnwtions.

After the jury have retired for deliberation, if there be a
disagreement between them as to any part of the testimony,
or if they desire to be informed of any point of law arising
in the cause, they may require the officer to conduct them
into Court. Upon their being brought into Court, the~information required shall be given in the presence of, or after
notice to, the parties or counsel.

§ 169. When prevented from giving verdict, the cause may be
again tried.

In all cases where a jury are discharged, or prevented from
giving a verdict, by reason of accident or other cause, during

the progress of the trial, or after the cause is submitted to
them, the action may be again tried immediately, or at a future

time, as the Court shall’ direct.

§ 170. While jury are absent, Court may adjourn from time
to time. Sealed verdict. Final adjournment discharges the jury.

While the jury are absent, the Court may adjourn from
time to time, in respect to other business; but it shall never»
theless be deemed open for every purpose connected with the
cause submitted to the jury, until a verdict is rendered, or the
jury discharged. The Court may direct the jury to bring in
a sealed verdict, at the opening of the Court, in case of an

agreement during a recess, or adjouriiment for the day. A
final adjournment of the Court for the term shall discharge

the jury.

1. Where a jury are instructed to bring in a sealed verdict. and they retire,
and after agreein u on the verdict, seal it up, and give it to the officer in
cha of them— e c erk being absent—-and request him to give it to the clerk,
whic is done; and after the meeting of the Court the following morning, the
verdict is opened in the presence of the jury, and read by the clerk, without
exception : Held, that this 18 not an error sumcient to warrant a new trial. The

ossession by such officer left the verdict as much in the possession of the
urt imelf as if it had been directly delivered to the clerk. Paige v. 0’Neal,

12 Cal. 483.
2. Nor will it make any dimerence when the names of the jurors were not

called and they were not asked whether they had agreed upon their verdict,
where the parties were present, and took no exception at the time ; and where
it is not pretended that the verdict entered differs from the one sealed up, or
that the result is in any respect affected by the omission. Id.

3. The opportunities of tampering with jurors after separation. are so numerous, and in important cases the temptation is so great, and the ability of detection so slight, as to make it a matter of grave doubt whether sound policy does
not require an adherence to the verdict as sealed, even as against a subsequent
dissent of one or more of the jurors. Id.

§ 171. The jury having agreed upon a verdict, shall declare
the same.

When the jury have agreed upon their verdict, they shall
be conducted into Court by the officer having them in charge.
Their names shall then be called, and they shall be asked by
the Court, or the clerk, whether they have agreed upon their
verdict; and if the foreman answer in the atiirmative, they
shall, on being required, declare the same.

§ 172. Informal or‘z'nsujicient verdict may be corrected under
advice of the Court.

If the verdict be informal, or iusufficient, in not covering
the whole issue or issues submitted, the verdict may be corrected by the jury, under the advice of the Court, or the
jury may be again sent out.

1. It is competent for the Court to instruct the jury to amend their verdict

utoform,notaRectingtheIubctance andinsuc manncrastobeunexceptionable in law. Truebody v. Jacobcori, 2 on 284.

2. Thccourtmay amendthe verdict ofajurywhenitiadefectiveinwmo
thing merely formal, and which has no connection with the merits of the

ca , wh re the amendment in no the to of the ' .
P:-.I:iau v.8 Wilson, 3 Cal. 139. respect alums“ dab pub”

3. Theverdictma conformtotheissuee. If the Court, insteadofha '
the verdict by the jury, attempt to correct it b the judgment, an
go nd the verdict, it is error. Ross v. Austill, 2 Cal. 92.

L general objection to the form of a verdict, without any ification of

the particulars in which it is alle ed to be defective, will not considered.
Hahonsy v. Van Winkle, 21 Cal. 2.

5 17 3. Verdict shall be recorded in full in the minutes.

When the verdict is given, and is not informal or incumcient, the clerk shall immediately record it, in full, in the
minutes, and shall read it to the jury, and inquire of them
whether it be their verdict. If any juror disagree, the jury
shall be again sent out; but if no disagreement be expressed,
the verdict shall be complete, and the jury shall be discharged from the case.

TITLE XV.

THE ‘VERDICT.

Bnarrox 174. General and special verdicts defined.
175. When general or ° verdicts me. be rendered.
176. Verdict in actions or the recovery 0 money, or on establis ' counterclaim.
17?. Verdict actionsfortherecoveryofspocincpsrsonsl

property.
173. may of verdict.

§ 174. General and special verdict: dgined.

The verdict of a jury is either general or special. A general verdict is that by which they pronounce generally upon
all or any of the issues, either in favor of the plaintifff or
defendant; a special verdict is that by which the jury find
the facts only, leaving the judgment to the Court. The
special verdict shall present the conclusions of ‘ fact as established by the evidence, and not the evidence to prove them;
and those conclusions of fact shall be so presented, as that
nothing shall remain to the Court but to draw from them
conclusions of law.

In an action for the recovery of money only, or specific

‘real property, the jury in their discretion may render a general or special verdict. In all other cases the Court may direct

the jurytofind a special verdict in writing, upon all or any of
the issues, and in all cases may instruct them, if they render a
general verdict, to find upon particular questions of fact, tobe
stated in writing, and may direct a written finding thereon.
The special verdict or finding shall be filed with the clerk
and entered upon the minutes. Where a special tinding of
facts shall be inconsistent with the general verdict, the former

shall control the latter, and the Court shall give judgment
accordingly.

‘Amended 1354, as; N. Y. Code, gs 261, 262.

1. The Courtmay direct a special verdict to be entered in the action. Burs
rlttv. Gibson, 3Cal. 396.

2. 0on£toun¢.¢eneralandepeclalverd1ct.—Whcnthej aredirected.
bytheConrttonndageneralve1-dict, andalaotomahe a s al  of
factsuponquestionssubmittedtothem,a.ndageneral ve ctis return in
favor of one pug, while the dnding upon the special issues is in favor of
the other party. e Court should render judgment in accordance with the
Ipecnlflndmgs,if theyembrace_all the issues  in the pleadings. If,
however, there is any one in 188110 in the loadings, not covered by the

' 1lndlngs,the' tshouldberenseredonthegeneralverdict

cDcr-mott v. Higby, al. 489.

3. Whenajnry renders a general verdict, and also special nndings, the
latter will control the former, if there is any inconsistency between them;
and the Court will direct 'udgment to be entered in accordance with the
special findings. Lease v. ‘lurk, 20 Cal. 387.

4. Bpeoialluueawithdrawn froma jury.—Where specialissues are
submitted to a jury, and they announce that they cannot agree upon the
special issues, but can upon a general verdict, and by consent of counsel
on both sides, the  s are withdrawn, and a general verdict received
by the Court, no error is committed. Mitchell 1. Hoclcett at 01., 25 Cal. 545.

5.11Icoourtmustaet1lethequestiona.eto.-—Itisthe&:cvinceofa
Courttodetermineastowhatpar-ticularfactsthe' shall dspecially

and neither has the right to dictate the terms oi any articular 

tobesubmrt tothe' . Amcrican0ompanyv.B or-11,27
Bee further, ante, § 174. Jury

§ 176. Verdict in actions for recovery of money, or on establishing a counterclaim.

When a verdict is found for the plaintifff, in an action for
the recovery of money, or for the defendant, when a counterclaim for the recovery of money is established, exceeding the

amount of the plaintifff ’s claim as established,_ the jury shall
also find the amount of the recovery.

TITLE XVI.
CHAPTER V.—Trial by the Court.

Bllcnozt 179. _ When and how trial by'jury may be waived.
180. Decision on trial of issue of fact by the Court.
181. A reference may be ordered, when.

§ 179. When and how trial by juvy may be waived.

Trial by jury may be waived by the several parties to an
issue of fact, in actions arising on contract; and, with the
assent of the Court in other actions, in the manner following:

lst. By failing to appear at the trial ;

2d. By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with
the clerk. ,

3d. By oral consent in open Court, entered in the minutes.
The Court may prescribe by rule what shall be deemed a
waiver in other cases.

§ 180. ‘Decision on trial of issue of fact by the Court. Ezceptions to be filed, when.

Upon a trial of issue of fact by the Court, judgment shall
be entered in accordance with the finding of the Court, and
the finding, if required by either party, shall be reduced to
writing and filed with the clerk. In the finding filed, the
facts found and the conclusions of law shall be separately
stated. In such cases, no judgment shall be reversed on
appeal for want of a finding in writing at the instance of any
party who, at the time of the submission of the cause, shall
not have requested a finding in writing, and had such request
entered in the minutes of the Court; nor in cases tried by
the Court by a commissioner or a referee shall the judgment
be reversed on appeal for defects in the finding, unless exceptions be made in the Court below for a defect in the finding; and in cases of exceptions for defective findings, the
particular point or issue upon which the party requires a
finding to be made, or the particular defect to be remedied,
shall be specitically and particularly designated; and upon
failure of the Court to remedy, or when tried by a commissioner or referee, to cause to be remedied, by such commissioner or referee, the alleged defect, the party moving shall
be entitled to his exceptions, and the same shall be settled
by the Judge as in other cases; provided, that such exceptions
shall be filed in the Court and served on the attorney of the
adverse party within five days after receiving from or giving
to the adverse party written notice of the filing of the finding; provided, that when any cause is tried and submitted
upon a written statement of facts, agreed to by the parties

or their attorneys, such statement shall have the efect of a

§ 181. Reference may be ordered, when.

On a judgment upon an issue of law, if the taking of an
account be necessary to enable the Court to complete the

judgment, a reference may be ordered.

T I T L E X V I L
_ Cnsrrnn VI.— Of references, and trial by referees.

Blanca 182. Reference ordered upon agreement of parties, in what
183.  ordered on motion, in what cases.
13%‘ giutllilbepartyr of r°f°'°°'13°q“t"l'“.:;mun°“:1'."’:°f»‘iS5eou
. er ma 0 , 0 011.
186. Ob'ections, howydis1ig.sed of.
187. Beerees to report within tendays, afoot of, how ex_ oepted to, etc.
§ 182. ‘Reference ordered upon agreement of parties, in what
cases. '
A reference may be ordered upon the agreement of the
parties filed with the clerk, or entered in the minutes:
Fz'rsL——To try any or all of the issues in an action or_ proceeding, whether of fact or of law, and to report a finding
and judgment thereon:
Second»-—To ascertain a fact necessary to enable the Court

to proceed and determine a case.

3d. When a question of fact, other than upon the pleadings, arises upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of the
action; or, i

4th. When it is necessary for the information of the Court
in a special proceeding._

1. Our statute, as to referring cases, ap lies solely to equity causes. The

t of trial by jury in all common law ac one is secured by the Constitution
0 this State. Grim V. Norris, 19 Cal. 140.

2. A Court has not power to send an ordinary suit at law to a referee for trial

against the objection of either party; and this, whether the suit requires the
examination of a long account or not. And a statute authorizing a reference
in such case would be unconstitutional. Id.

8. In an action of law, the necessi oftaking a long aecountwill not
authorize the Court to refer the case wi out the consent of_ parties. Id.

4. And even if one of the parties subsequently waived his objection to the
reference, that will not be sumcient. Id.

'5. The Court may order a reference to ascertain the es sustained
reason of an injunction issued without a cause. Russell v. lliott, 2 Cal. .

6. Action, for balance of an account. Defense, payment‘ by a promissory
note. _ Re lication, that the plaintifff was induced to receive the note by means
of fraud ent representations. Held, that the case was not referable under

iihsdsltagaéga, without the written consent of both parties. Seaman v. Hmiam‘,

7. In an uity case, where the trial of an issue of fact is involved, requiring
the examina on of a 10 account on either side, the Court may order a reference, with directions to e referee to report upon the account, or any issue of
fact involved in the account. Williams v. Benton, 24 Cal. 425. r

8. In an action to dissolve a partnership and obtain a settlement of the
partnership accounts, the Court has power to order a reference for the trial of
all the issues of fact relating to the condition of the ership accounts;
but it has no power, if objection is made, to order a re erence of the trial of

any othefdissue or issues in the case, nor to direct the referee to report a judgment. .

9. When the taking ofan account is required, it is in the discretion of the

Court to take an account, or to refer it to a commissioner or referee to state it.
Hidden v. Jordon, 28 Cal. 301.

10. If the commissioner, to whom a case has been referred to take an account,
commits an error at the threshold which unsettles the account, the Court is not
bound to go over the account and correct the error, but may set aside the report
and again refer the case. Hidden v. Jordon, 32 Cal. 397. [See same case, 28

Cal. 301.]

§ 184. ‘Number of referees, qualifications, etc.

A reference may be ordered to any person or persons, not
exceeding three, agreed upon by the parties. If the parties
do not agree, the Court or Judge shall appoint one or more
referees, not exceeding three, who reside in -the county in
which the action or proceeding is triable and against whom
there is no legal objection, or the reference may be made to
a Court commissioner of the county where the cause is pendn .
1 amended 1866, 345. See 9529.

§ 185. Either party may oljecl; grounds qfolgiection.

Either party may object to the appointment of any person‘

as referee, on one or more of the following grounds:

lst. A want of any of the qualifications prescribed by statute to render a person competent as a juror:

2d. Consanguinity or ailinity, within the third degree, to
either party: ' A "

3d. Standing in the relation of guardian and ward, master‘and servant, employer and clerk, or principal and agent to"

either party; or being a member of the family of either
party; or a partner in business with either party; or being
security on any bond or obligation for either party:
4th. Having served as a juror, or been a witness on any
trial between the same parties for the same cause of action :
5th. Interest on the part of such person in the event of
the action, or in the main question involved in the action:

6th. Having formed or expressed an unqualiiied opinion or’

belief as to the merits of the action:

7th. The existence of a state of mind in such person:

evincing enmity against or bias to either party.

1. The fact that the referee, in the proceedingsisupplemen to execution,
was the clerk of the attaching creditor, is not any considers e evidence of

bed, when the limited duties ofthe relereeare considered. Adamsv.'

Hsdadt, 7 ca. 137.

§186. 0Iy'ect§'ons, how disposed of.

The objections taken to the appointment of any person as
referee shall be heard and‘ disposed of by the Court. Amdevits may be read, and any person examined as a witness,
as tosnch objections.

§l87. Referees to report within ten days, qfect qf, how excepted to, etc. _
The referees or Commissioner shall report their findings in

writing to the Court within ten days (or within such further

time as may be allowed by the Court) after the testimony
shall have been closed, and the facts found and conclusions of

law shall be separately stated therein. The finding of the
lteferee or Commissioner upon the whole issue shall stand as
the finding of the Court, and upon filing of the finding with
the Clerk of the Court judgment may be entered thereon in
the same manner as if the action had been tried by the Court.

§ 189. ‘The point of exception shall be particularly stated, etc.

The point of the exception shall be particularly stated,
and may be delivered in writing to the Judge ; or, if the
party require, it shall be written down by the clerk. When
delivered in writing. or written down by the clerk, it shall
be made conformable to the truth, or be at the time corrected until it is so made conformable. When not delivered
in writing, or written down as above, it may be entered in
the J udge’s minutes, and afterwards settled in a statement of
the case, as provided in this Act; provided, that if the Judge
shall, in any case, refuse to allow an exception in accordance
with the facts, any party aggrieved thereby may petition the
Supreme Court for leave to prove the same, and shall have
the right so to do, in such mode and manner, and according
to such regulations as the Supreme Court may, by rules, imP086.

‘Amended 1863, 360. See further, 190 post.

[8ee§195,poo¢, notelio. 86, astothopractioowherealudgo refuse to allowanexoept1on.]

§ 190. No particular form required.
No particular form of exception shall be required. The
objection shall be stated, with so much of the evidence, or

other matter, as is necessary to explain it, but no more ; and
the whole as briefly as possible.

deemed excepted to on a motion for a new’ trial or on appeal,
without any special notice that an exception is taken thereto.

1. A report which is not made immediately after the close of the testimony,
by the one hundred and ninety-nrst section of the Practice Act, is deemed an
excepted to. Headley v. Reed, 2 Cal. 322.

2. - In case a decision or report by the Court or referees isomade immediately
after the close of the testimony it may be excepted to. Such exception is not
necessary to be taken in order to entitle the objecting party to move for a ne‘\"r
trialonan of thegroundsspecidedintheAct, orto maintain  if
the facts ound do not warrant the decision. In the matter of the of D.
0. Bowen, Jan. T. 1868. _

8. The one hundred and nin -nrst section of thePractieeAct, allowing
an exception to the decision at a ourt or referee, does not do away with the
necessityofaa theCourtto§ndthet'actsortheomittedfaeta,and~aotuzlglyexoeptingto eretusaltodoso. Lucasv. Oityofsanituunaieco, 88Cal.

TITLE XIX".

NEW TRIALS.

Srcrxox 192. New trial dedned.

193. When new trial may be granted.

194. When application for new trial to be made upon affidavit
or statement. ‘

195. Notice of motion for new trial; when andhow statemenm
or affidavits to be made and died.

198. Motion to be made without delay.

§ 192. New mu: defined.

A new trial is a re-examination of an issue of fact, in the
same Court, after a trial and decision by a jury, Court, or
referees. '

§1_93. Whenanewtrialmaybegranted.

The former verdict or other decision may be vacated, and
a new trial granted, on the application of the party aggrieved,
for any of the following causes, materially affecting the substantial rights of said party : °

lst. Irregularity in the proceedings of the Court, jury, or
adverse party, or any order of the Court, or abuse of discretion, by which either party was prevented from having a fair
trial. »

2d. Misconduct of the jury, and whenever any one or more
of the jurors shall have been induced to assent to any general or

spea'aleverdz'ct,.or to a jindingon any question or questz'on.9submitlad to them by the Court, by a resort to the determination of
chances ; such misconduct may be proved by the .a§'idavils of any‘
one or more of the jurors.

3d. Accident ‘or surprise, which ordinary prudence could
not have guarded against.

- 4th. Newly discovered evidence, material for _:the- party"

making the application, which he could not, with reasonable
diligence, have discovered and produced-at the trial;

5th. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given
under the influence of passion or prejudice.

6th. Insufficiency of the evidence to justify. the verdict, or
other decision, or that (it) is against law. 1

7th. Error in law, occurring at the trial and excepted to by
the party making the application.

it shall be made upon affidavit-; forany other cause, it shall
be made upon a statement prepared as provided‘ in the next
section.

3195. ‘Notice of mozionfomew trial; whznand how statemeats-or ‘a,$da'vz‘ls lobe made and filed.

The party intending to move for a new trial shall give ‘notice
or the same as follows: When the action has been tried by a
jury, within five days after the rendition of the verdict; and
when tried by a commissioner, referee, or by the Court, within ten days after receiving written notice of the filing of the
indings of ‘the commissioner, referee, or Court, when written

Endings are filed by the Court, or of the rendering of the
decision of the Court when no findings are filed; provided,

the decision be rendered in open Court, and if rendered at
Vacation, than within ten days after receiving written notice
of the filing thereof ; and when amendments are filed to remedy defects in the findings, within ten days after receiving
‘written notice of the tiling of such amendments. The notice
shall designate generally the grounds upon which the motion
will be made. Within dve days after giving such notice, or
within such further time, not exceeding twenty days, as the
Court or Judge ‘thereof or Court Commissioner may by order
grant, the said ‘party shall prepare and file with the clerk the
affidavit or statement required by the last section. If no
affidavit or ‘statement he filed withinfive days after the notice, or within such further time as the parties -may agree
‘upon, or the Court or Judge thereo for Court Commissioner
may by order grant, the right to move for a new trial sh all
be deemed waived. When the notice designates as the
ground upon which the motion will be made the insufficiency
of the evidence to justify the verdict or other decision, the
statement shall specify the particulars in which such evidence
is alleged to be insuilicient. When the notice designates, as
the-ground of the motion errors in law occurring at the trial
and excepted to by the moving party, the statement shall
lpooiiy the particular errors upon which the party will rely.
If nosuch specifications be made, the statement shall be disNgarded. The statement shall contain so much of the evideuce or reference thereto as may be necessary to explain

the particular points thus specified, and no more. Such statement, when not agreed to by the adverse party, shall be
settled by the Judge, upon notice. When agreed to,.it shall
be accompanied by the certificate of the parties or their
attorneys that the same has been agreed upon and is correct.
When settled by the Judge, the same shall be accompanied
with his certificate that the same has been allowed by him
and is correct. On the argument reference may also be made
to the pleadings, depositions, and documentary evidence on
£le and the minutes of the Court. If the application be
made upon affidavits filed, the adverse party may use counter
afhdavits on the hearing. Any counter. affidavits shall be
filed with the Clerk one day at least previous to the hearing.
The affidavits and counter affidavits, or the statement thus
used in connection with such pleadings, depositions, and
minutes of the Court as are read or referred to on the hearing, shall constitute, Without further statement, the papers
to be used on appeal from the order granting or refusing the
new trial. To identify the affidavits, it shall be sullicient for
the Judge or clerk to endorse them at the time as having
been read ‘or referred to on the hearing. To identify any
depositions or minutes of the Court read or referred to on
the hearing, it shall be sufficient that the Judge designate
them in his certihcate as having been thus read or referred to.

TITLE XX.
CHAPTER VIII.—T7ze manner of giving and entering judgment.

Sxcnox 197. Judgment to be entered in twenty-four hours, etc.

198. Case may be brought before the Court for argument.

199. When counterclaim established exceeds plaintit1”s demand.

200. In replevin, judgment to be in the alternative. and with
damages.

201. Judgment book to be kept by the clerk.

202. If a party die after verdict, Judgment may be entered, but
not to be alien.

203. Judgment roll, what to constitute.

204. Jud ent lien, when it begins and when it expires.

205. Doc et, how kept, and what to contain.

206. Docket to be open for inspection without charge.

207. Transcript to he died in any county, and judgment to become a lien there.

208. Satisfaction of a judgment, how made.

5 197. Judgment to be entered in twenty;four hours, etc.

When trial by jury has been had, judgment shall be entered by the clerk, in conformity to the verdict, within twentyfonr hours after the rendition of the verdict, unless the Court
order the case to be reserved for argument, or further consideration, or grant a stay of proceedings.

§198. ‘Case may be brought before the Court for argument.

When the case is reserved for argument or further consideration, as mentioned in the last section, it may be brought
by either party before the Court for argument.

§ 199. When counterclaim established exceeds plaintz_'f’s demand.

If a counterclaim, established at the trial, exceed the plaintifff ’ s demand, so established, judgment for the defendant shall
be given for the excess ; or if it appear that the defendant is
entitled to any other aliirmative relief, judgment shall be given
accordingly.

N. Y. Code, 9 263.

5 200. ‘In replevin, judgment to be in the alternative, and ma
damages; gold coin or currency judgment.

In an action to recover the possession of personal property,
judgment for the plaintifff may be for the possession, or the
value thereof, in case a delivery cannot be had, and damages
for the detention. If the property has been delivered to
the plaintifff, and the defendant claim a return thereof, judgment for the defendant may be for a return of the property,
or the value thereof, in case a return cannot be had, and
damages for taking and withholding the same. In an action
on a contract or obligation in writing, for the direct payment
of money, made payable in a specified kind of money or currency, judgment for the plaintifff, whether the same be by default or after verdict, may follow the contract or obligation,
and be made payable in the kind of money or currency specified therein ; and in an action against any person for the recovery of money received by such person in a fiduciary capacity, or to the use of another, judgment for the plaintifff,
whether the same be by default, or after verdict, may be
made payable in the same kind of money or currency so
received by such person.

§ 199. When counterclaim established exceeds plaint2_'f’s de- A
mand.

If a counterclaim, established at the trial, exceed the plaintiE’s demand, so established, judgment for the defendant shall
be given for the excess ; or if it appear that the defendant is
entitled to any other allirmative relief, judgment shall be given
accordingly.

N. Y. Code, § 263.

5 200. ‘In replevin,judgmcnttobe in tlaeallez-native,andw.itl: A

damages; gold coin or currency iudnmh"

In an 9
judgment
value the
for the c
the plain
ment for
or the v
damages
on a cont
of money
rency, juc
fault or a
and be ms
ified ther
covery of
pacity, on ...
whether
made pa;
received

If a party die after a verdict or decision upon any issue of
fact, and before judgment, the Court may nevertheless render
judgment thereon. Such judgment shall not be a lien on the
real property of the deceased party, but shall be payable in
the course of administration on his estate.

1. The continuance of the name of a deceased plaintid’ instead of that of
his executor in a judgment rendered after the substitution, is an error of form
0n¥.wuii date]: not make the j11dg!!10l(lltleEO§)(1.f Gregory avid Haynésga 21 Cal;;(-113.

are e plaintifff in an action ' ore tnal,' a su qnent er
for jpddgment contained a “as fpllgws :1‘:  gong: having begxgmconi
tinu in consequence of the ea 0 t e p in ' , ' executor, ue
Webb, and the jury ha ' found a verdict for plaintiyf," and then awarded
judgment in ffatvlor of ghmlaintiiz Held, tllainathtge  suiilciently showed as]

esuono e dea o the original’ p ' ’ , an acontinuance or reviv

 u:e, in the name of the executor. Id. f In an d

e eathofanap llant, after argument 0 ‘s case on appe , oes
not constitute any grounp: for delaying a decision, or a departing from the
ordinary course of ure, exce t as to the entry of the judgment which
may be rendeI:ed.BM e entry sh6<8> d be of a day anterior to the appellant's
death- Blac v. w, 20 Cal. .

4. The rule is different if the death occurs previous to the argument. In
that. event further proceedings can only be had upon leave given after suggeiuoii alpha diimmm mt?-3’ £5‘. t 'nst a fe a c h b 1. 1r

. irregur on u euagai aenan,onwose eaa
demurrer is on file, without disposing of the demurrer, and a judgment so enmed will be reversed on appeal. Hestres, administrator, v. Clements, 21 Cal.

§ 203. ‘Judgment roll, what to constitute.

Immediately after entering the judgment, the clerk shall
attach together and file the following papers, which shall
constitute the judgment roll:

First—-In case the complaint be not answered by any defendant, the summons, With the affidavit or proof of service,
and the complaint, with a memorandum endorsed upon the
complaint that the default of the defendant in not answering
F88 entered, and a copy of the judgment.

Second-—In all other cases, the summons, pleadings, verdict
of the jury, or finding of the Court, commissioner, or referee,
all bills of exceptions taken and filed in said action, copies of
orders sustaining or overruling demurrers, a copy of the
judgment, and copies of any orders relating to a change of
parties.

amount shall -be stated in the docket under the head of judgment; if the judgment be for any other relief, a memorandum of the general character of the relief granted shall be
stated. The names of the defendants shall be entered in the
docket in alphabetical order.

1. The docketing of a judgment im constructive notice of the lieu of
the judgment on the real estate of e judgment debtor to strangers to the

judgment. Page v. Rogers, 31 Cal. 293.

§ 206. Docket to be open for inspection without charges.

The docket kept by the Clerk shall be open at all time“
during office hours for the inspection of the public, without
charge ; and it shall be the duty of the Clerk to arrange the
several dockets kept by him in such a manner as to facilitate

their inspection.

§207. Transcript to be filedin any county, andjudgwnent to
become a lien there.

A transcript of the original docket certified by the clerk
may be filed with the Recorder of any other county, and from
the time of the filing the judgment shall become a lien upon
all the real property of the judgment debtor not exempt from
execution in such county owned by him at the time, or which
he may afterwards acquire, until the said lien expires. The
lien shall continue for two years, unless the judgment be
previously satisfied.

TITLE XXI.

OF THE EXECUTION 0]’ THE JUDGMENT IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

Onarrns I.--The execution.

8:0-non 209. Within what time an execution may issue.

210. Who me issue it; its form; to whom directed; and what
it sh require.

211. When all the defendants were not served wim summons,
what to direct. _

212. When made returnable.

213. Money judgments and others, how enforced.

214. Execution after dve years.

215. When execution may issue against the property of a party
after his death.

218. Execution may be issued to the she:-id’ of any county;
when against the property of the defendent; otherwise
when it requires the delivery of real and personal
v*°Im~

217. What be liable to be seized in execution; not tabs
affected till a levy is made. "

218. Whensproperty is claimed bya third party; how the right
of property to be tried.

219. What roperty shall be exempt from execution.

220. Writ, ow executed

221. Notice of sale under execution, how given.

222. Belling without notice, what enalty attached.

223. Sales, how conducted; neit er the officer conducting it
nor his deputy to be a purchaser; real and personal
Rlroperty, how sold; judgment debtor if resent

'rect order of sale, and the officer follow 1‘
directions.

224. If purchaser refuses to pay purchase money, what proc

225. Court or ustice may proceed in a summarymanner against
a purchaser refusing to pay; omoer may refuse such
purchaser's bid after.

These two sections not to make officer liable beyond a cor»

P mmimomm bl 1 ml deh 1: a 11

ersona property capa e 0 man ‘very, ow e vP mdmilo Pu ' bl f ual d 1: h
erso rortnotca eoman e°ve,ov
sold dgfivgred. Pa - 17

Real property, when absolute sale or not; in the latter-case
what the certificate must contain.

Real property so sold, by whom it may be redeemed.

When it may be redeemed; and redemption money.

When judgment debtor or other redemptioner may redeem.

In case of redemption, to whom the payments are to be
m e.

What must a redemptioner do, in order to redeem.

Until the expiration of redemptiontime, Court may restrain
waste on the property; what shall be considered waste.

i‘:"*° “ad *"°':“:~.,.':’*° ‘° '° '°.;°:*'::,~ ... ....,... —.

urc asero rope e ct or ' an'eI

n the sale, wbatpshallrthe recover, and from whom.

When judgment to be revived. Petition for the purpose, how and by whom made.

§ 209. Within what time an execution may issue

5?-.§§§.§§?3.§§§;§§

The party in whose favor judgment is given, may, at any
time within five years after the entry thereof, issue a writ of
execution for its enforcement, as prescribed in this chapter.

N. Y. Code, § 283. See 99 214, 601, 602. Applicable to Justices’ Courts,

post, Q 601, 602.
1. An execution can only be issued upon a judgment obtained before a justice of the within five years after the entry of the judgment. Wlfile v.

Clark, 8 C . 513. The dve years of limitation within which an execution for

an unsatisfied balance on a foreclosure sale may be taken out, commences to
run from the date of the 'u ent of foreclosure, and not from the date when

the balance was docke owers v. Crury, 30 Cal. 621.

2. Every process which may be required to completely enforce a judgment
must be taken ‘within dve ears after its entry. I .

3. The statute limiting s time for issuing execution upon a jud ent to
'£ve years after its entry, applies to ju ents rendered in suits to oreclose
gfrlnortgage, equally as to mere person judgments. Stout v. Macy, 22 Cal.

4. The period duri which an execution has been stayed by an order of

Court is not to be exc nded from the five years, after the lapse of which an

order of Court was necessary to obtain an execution. Solomon v. Maguire, 29

Cal. 227. '
5. If the defendant in a judgment delivers to the plaintiff therein a remissory note of third parties in satisfaction of the same, which is void use

fl-audulergldy obtained by defendant from the payers, it is not necessary for
the plain ' to return the note before enforcing his judgment by execution.

Mitchell v. Hocloett et at., 25 Cal. 544.

6. If an appellate Court amrms the judgment of the Court below, with
costs, and u n the nling of its mandate of adirmance in the Court below, an
order is e directing a new jud ent to be entered up in’ accordance with

the directions of the mandate, suc new judgment, although it may be erroneous or irre , is not void so as to invalidate an execution issued on the

same. Mul ord v. Estudillo, 23 Cal. 94.
7. As soon as the judgment is entered, an execution may issue, whether the

judgment roll has been made up or not. Sharp v. Lumley, Jan. T. 1868.
§ 210. ‘ Whb may issue the execution, its form," to whom directed and what it shall require.

The writ of execution shall be issued in thename of the
people, sealed with the seal of the Court, and subscribed by
the Clerk, and shall be directed to the sherid, and shall intelligibly refer to the judgment, stating the Court, the county

where the judgment roll is filed, and if it be‘ for money, the
amount thereof, and the amount actually due thereon, and if

made payable in a specified kind of money or currency, as
provided in section two hundred of this act, the execution
shall also state the kind of money or currency in which the
judgment is payable, and shall require the sheriff, substantially as follows: ‘

First——If it be against the property of the judgment debtor,
it shall require the sherid to satisfy the judgment, with interest, out of the personal property of such debtor, and ii sailicient personal property cannot be found, then out of his real
property; or if the judgment be alien upon real property,
then out of the real property belonging to him on the day
when the judgment was docketed; or if the execution be
issued to a county other than the one in which the judgment
was recovered, on the day when the transcript of the docket
was filed in the oihce of the recorder of such county, stating
such day, or any time thereafter.

Second—If it be against real or personal property in the
hands of the personal representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants of real property, or trustees, it shall require
the sheriff to satisfy the judgment, with interest, out of such
property.

77u'rd—If it be against the person of the judgment debtor,
it shall require the sheriff to arrest such debtor and commit
him to the jail of the county until he pay the judgment, with
interest, or be discharged according to law.

Fourth——If it be issued on a judgment made payable in a

specified kind of money or currency, as provided in section ,

two hundred of this act, it shall also require the sheriff to
satisfy the same in the kind of money or currency in which
said judgment is made payable, and the sheriff shall refuse
payment in any other kind of money or currency ; and in
case of levy and sale of the property of the judgment debtor
he shall refuse payment from any purchaser at such sale in
any other kind of money or currency than that specified in
the execution. The sheriff collecting money or currency in
the manner required by this act, shall pay to the plaintifff or
party entitled to recover the same, the same kind of money
or currency received by him, and in case of neglect or refusal
so to do, he shall be liable on his ollicial bond to the judgment creditor in three times the amount of the money so collected.

Fzfth—-If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or
personal property, it shall require the sheriff to deliver the
possession of the same, particularly describing it,to the party
entitled thereto, and may, at the same time, require the

sherid to satisfy any costs, damages, rents, or profits, recov§211. ‘When all the defendants were not served with summons, what to direct.

When a writ of execution is issued on a judgment recovered against two or more persons, in an action upon a joint
contract, in which action all the defendants were not served

with summons, or did not appear, it shall direct the Sherid‘ to
satisfy the judgment out of the joint property of all the
defendants, and the individual property only of the defendants who were served or who appeared in the action. In
other respects, the writ shall contain the directions specified

in subdivisions one and four of the last section.

1Amended 1863, 688. Applicable to Justices’ Courts.

1. When judgment is taken jointly against two defendants, it makes no
diference, so far as the are concerned, whether the sherif nrst levied on

joint property or not. Y. Adams, 6 Cal. 277.
§ 212. When made returnable.

The execution may be made returnable, at any time not less
than ten nor more than sixty days after its receipt by the
Shcrilf, to the Clerk with whom the judgment roll is filed;
when the execution shall have been returned, it shall be the
duty of the Clerk to attach the same to the judgment roll. If
any real estate be levied upon the Clerk shall record the execution and the return thereto at large, and certify the same
under his hand as true copies, in a book to be called the
“ Execution Book,” which book shall be indexed with the
names of the plaintifffs and defendants in execution alphabetically arranged, and kept open at all times during office hours
for the inspection of the public, without charge ; and shall be
evidence of the contents of the originals whenever they or

any part thereof may be destroyed, lost, or mutilated.

§ 213. ‘Money judgments and others, how enforced.

Where the judgment requires the payment of money or the
delivery of real or personal property, the same may be enforced by a writ of execution ; when it requires the performanoe of any other act, a certified copy of the judgment may
be served upon the party against whom the same is rendered,
or upon the person or oilicer required thereby or by law to
obey the same; obedience thereto may be enforced by the
Court; and after a final judgment of partition the Court

shall have power to enforce a severance of the possession.

‘ ‘Amended 1866, 703. Applicable to Justices’ Courts.

1. A levy under an execution, upon sufficient personal property to satisfy
the same, is a satisfaction of the judgment, sumcient at least to discharge
third persons who are liable collaterally or as sureties therefore; and a
release of the property from levy thus made, without consent of the parties
thus liable, cannot revive their liability. Mulford v. Estudillo, 23 Cal.

2. The law does not deem such 8 payment, but-it is a satisfaction or dis?

charge. Id. See also 8 Cal. 80.
3. Where process of a Court, as an execution, commanding the sherin‘ to deliver possession of a chattel, has been finally and completely executed, the
power of the sheriff under it, and the authority of the Court to enforce it,
cease; and a wrong doer, afterwards trespassing upon the person thus put in
possession. cannot be deemed guilty of contem t for disobedience to the proease of the Court. Per Bennett, J. Loring v. llsley, 1 Cal. 24.

§ 214. ‘Execution after nve years.

In all cases, other than for the a recovery of money, the
judgment may be enforced or carried into execution after the
lapse of five years from the date of its entry, by leave of the
Court, upon motion, or by judgment for that purpose founded
on supplemental pleadings.

‘Amended 1866, 704. Applicable to Justices’ Courts.

§ 215. ‘When executi'on may issue against the propertyrqf a
party after his 

Notwithstanding the death of a party after the judgment,
execution thereon may be issued, in case of the death of the

plaintiff, the same as if he were living, upon the application_

of his executor, or administrator, or successor in interest, by
the Court in which the judgment was rendered or exists.
And in case of the decease of the defendant, if the judgment
be for the recovery of real or personal property, execution
may be issued and executed against the property recovered
in the same manner and with the same effect as if he were
still living.

‘Amended 1863-4, 452. Applicable to Justices’ Courts.
1. The one hundred and forty-first section of the Act relating to the estates

of deceased persons applies onl to money judgments. or to such one of
other judgments as require for t eir satisfaction execution against e general
property of the deceased. Gowell v. Buclcelew, 14 Cal. 641.

§ 216. ‘Execution, how and to whom issued.

Where the execution is against the property of the judgment debtor, it may be issued to the.Sheriil' of any county in
the State. Where it requires the delivery .of real or ‘personal property, it shall be issued to the Sheriff of the county
where the property, or some part thereof, is situated. Executions may be issued, at the same time, to different counties.

Applicable to Justices’ Courts.

§ 217. ‘What shall be liable to be seized in execution; not to
be afected till a levy is made.

All goods, chattels, monies, and other property, both real
and personal, or any interest therein of the judgment debtor,
not exempt by law, and all property and rights of property,
seized and held under attachment in the action, shall be
liable to execution. Shares and interests in any corporation
or company, and debts and credits, on all other property,
both real and personal, or any interest in either real or personal property, and all other property not capable of manual
delivery, may be attached on execution, in like manner as
upon writs of attachments. Gold dust shall be returned by
the oliicer as so much money collected, at its current value,
without exposing the same to sale. Until a levy, property
shall not be affected by the execution.

§218. When property is claimed by a third party, how the
right of property‘ to be tried.

If the property levied on be claimed by a third person as
his property, the Sheriif shall summon from his county six
persons qualified as jurors between the parties, to try the
validity of the claim. He shall also give notice of the claim
and of the time of trial to the plaintifff, _who may appear and
contest the claim before the jury. The jury and the witnesses shall be' sworn by the Sheriff, and if their verdict be
in favor of the claimant, the Sheri&' may relinquish the levy,
unless the judgment creditor give him a sufficient indemnity
for proceeding thereon. The fees of the jury, the Sheriff,
and the witnesses, shall be paid by the claimant, if the ver.
dict be against him; otherwise by the plaintifff. On the
trial the defendant and the claimant may be examined by
the plaintifff as witnesses.

§ 219. ‘ What property shall be exempt from execution.

The following property shall be exempt from execution,
except as herein otherwise specially provided:

First-—Chairs, tables, desks, and books, to the value of one
hundred dollars, belonging to the judgment debtor.

Secand—Necessary household, table, and kitchen furniture
belonging to the judgment debtor, including stoves, stovepipe, and stove furniture, wearing apparel, beds, bedding.
and bedsteads, and provisions actually provided for individual
or family use suilicient for one month.

Third-—The farming utensils or implements of husbandry
of the judgment debtor; also, two oxen, or two horses, or two
mules, and their harness, four cows, one cart or wagon, and
food for such oxen, horses, cows, or mules, for one month;

also, all seed grain or vegetables actually provided, reserved,

{or on hand for the purpose of planting or sowing at any time
{within the ensuing six months, not exceeding in value the
[sum of two hundred dollars.

Faurth—Tools or implements of a mechanic or artisan
necessary to carry on his trade, the instruments and chest of
a Surgeon, Physician, Surveyor, and Dentist, necessary to the
exercises of their profession, with their scientific and professional libraries ; the law libraries of Attorneys and Counselors, and the libraries of Ministers of the Gospel.

F{flh—The cabin or dwelling of a miner, not exceeding in
value the sum of five hundred dollars ; also, his sluices, pipes,
hose, Windlass, derrick, cars, pumps, tools, implements, and
appliances necessary for carrying on any kind of mining operations, not exceeding in value the aggregate sum of five
hundred dollars; and two horses, mules, or oxen, with their
harness, and food for such horses, mules, ‘or oxen, for one
month, when necessary to be used for any whim, Windlass,
derrick, car, pump, or hoisting gear.

Si.'z:th-—Two oxen, two horses, or two mules, and their harness,
and one cart or wagon, by the use of which a cartman, huckster, peddler, teamster, or other laborer habitually earns his
living; and one horse, with vehicle and harness or other
equipments, used by a Physician, or Surgeon, or Minister of
the Gospel in making his professional visits, with food for
such oxen, horses, or mules, for one month.

Seventh—All fire engines, hooks and ladders, with the carts,
trucks, and carriages, hose, buckets, implements, and apparatus thereto appertaining, and all furniture and uniforms of
any fire company or department organized under any law of
this State.

EightIz~—A11 arms, uniforms, and accoutrements, required by _

law to be kept by any person.

M'nth—All Court-houses, Jails, public offices, and buildings,
lots, grounds, and personal property, the fixtures, furniture,
books, papers, and appurtenances, belonging and .pertaining
to the Court-house, Jail, and public offices belonging to any
county of this State, and all cemeteries, public squares, parks

and places, public buildings, town halls, markets, buildings0

for the use of the fire departments and military organizations,
and the lots and grounds thereto belonging and appertaining,
owned or held by any town or incorporated city, or dedicated
by such town or city to health, ornament, or public use, or
for the use of any fire or military company organized under
the laws of this State; but no article or species of property
mentioned in this section shall be exempt from execution
issued upon a judgment recovered for its price or upon a
mortgage thereon. . _

Tenth-—The earnings of the judgment debtor for his personal services rendered at any time within thirty days next
preceding the levy of execution (or levy of attachment),
when it shall be made to appear by the debtor’s aiiidavit or

otherwise, that such earnings are necessary for the use of his
family residing in this State, supported wholly or in part by
his labor.

§ 221. ‘Notice of sale under execution, how given.

Before the sale of property on execution, notice thereof
shall be given as follows:

First-—In case of perishable property, by posting written:
notice of the time and place of sale in three public places of
the township or city where the sale is to take place. for such

‘a time as may be reasonable, considering the character and

condition of the property.

Second—In case of other personal property, by posting a
similar notice in three public places in the township or city
where the sale is to take place, not less than five nor more
than ten days successively.

Third—In case of real property, by posting a similar notice.
particularly describing the property, for twenty days successively, in three public places of the township or city where
the property is situated, and also when the property is to be
sold, and publishing a copy thereof once a week for the same
period in some newspaper published in the county, if there
be one.

Fourth-—When the judgment under which the property is
to be sold is made payable in a specified kind of money or
currency, the several notices required by this section shall
state the kind of money or currency in which bids may be

made at such sale, which shall be the same as that specified
in the judgment.

8'A_1ge;ded 1863, 689. Applicable to Justices’ Courts. Bane:-oft's Forms,
11 1 .

1. Although the oliicer neglects to give the notice, the sale shall not be void.

Bmithv. Randall, 6Cal.47; Harveyv.Frislc,8Id. 93.

§ 222. Selling without notice, what penalty attached.

An othcer selling without the notice prescribed by the last
section, shall forfeit live hundred dollars to the aggrieved
party, in addition to his actual damages; and a person will.
fully taking down or defacing the notice posted, if done before
the sale or the satisfaction of the judgment (if the judgment

be satisfied before sale), shall forfeit five hundred dollars.

Appgicable to Justices’ Courts. '

l. the sheriff, before sale of real estate under execution, neglects to give

the proper notice, the statute gives an adequate remedy against the officer.

ghiare Tis not sutllcient cause to set aside or avoid the sale. Smith v. Randall, 6
a . 4 .

2. An action cannot be maintained b the defendant in an execution to wecover of the officer the penalty prescr bed by section 222 of the Practice Act
for selling without proper notice, unless by a sale so made the complainant has
been deprived of his property. If the attempted sale is a nullity, and asses
no title, no injury has been sustained, and no right of action for the to eiture
accrues. Askew v. Ebberts, 22 Cal. 263.

3. No right of property vests in the purchaser at an execution sale until he

« pays the purchase mone , and until this is done, the sale is not so far

perfected as to constitute t e foundation of an action to enforce a forfeiture for
sellin without the prescribed notice. Id.

4. u an action to enforce a penalty or‘ forfeiture imposed by statute, the
claim is to be strictly construed. Id.

§ 223. Sales, how conducted; neither the ojicer conducting it,
nor his deputy to be a purchaser; real and personal property,
how sold; judgment debtor, if present, may direct order of sale,
and the ojicer shall follow his directions.

All sales of property under execution shall be made at
auction to the highest bidder, and shall be made between the
hours of nine in the morning and five in the afternoon ; after
sudicient property has been sold to satisfy the execution, no
more shall be sold. Neither the officer holding the execution, nor his deputy, shall become a purchaser, or be interested in any purchase at such sale. When the sale is of persmal property, capable of manual delivery, it shall be within
view of those who attend the sale, and be sold in such parcels as are likely to bring the highest price; and when the
sale is of real property, and consisting of several known lots

§226. These two sections not to make Qyicer liable beyond a
certain amount.

The two preceding sections shall not be construed to make
the officer liable for any more than the amount bid by the

second, or subsequent purchaser, and the amount collected

from the purchaser refusing to pay.

A licable to Justices’ Courts.

1. ere a sherif fails to pa over money collected on execution, the action
should be for a false return. et al. v. Buchanan et al., 5 Cal. 53.

3. The statute penalties against sheri3’s, for the non-payment of monies

collected on execution, are only recoverable when the sherim by his return,
admits the collection of the money, but refuses to pay it over. Id.

§ 227. Personal property not capable of manual delivery, how
delivered to purchaser.

When the purchaser of any personal property capable of
manual delivery shall pay the purchase money, the officer
making the sale shall deliver to the purchaser the property,
and if desired shall execute and deliver to him a certihcate

of the sale and payment. Such certificate shall convey to
the purchaser all the right, title and interest which the debtor

had in and to such property on the day the execution was

levied.
Applicable to Justices’ Courts.

§ 228. Personal property not capable of manual delivery, how
sold and delivered.

When the purchaser of any personal property not capable
of manual delivery shall pay the purchase money, the officer
making the sale shall execute and deliver to the purchaser a
certificate of sale and payment. Such certificate shall eonvey to the purchaser all right, title, and interest which the

debtor had in and to such property on the day the excution
was levied.

§ 229. ‘Real property, when absolute sale or not; in the latter
case, what the certificate must contain.

Upon a sale of real property, the purchaser shall be substituted to and acquire all the right, title, interest and claim of
the judgment debtor thereto; and when the estate is less
than a leasehold of two years’ unexpired term, the sale shall
be absolute. In all other cases, the property shall be subject
to redemption, as provided in this chapter. The officer shall
give to the purchaser a certificate of sale containing:

Fir3t—A particular description of the real property sold.

Second—The price bid for each distinct lot or parcel.

Third+—The whole price paid.

Fourth—When subject to redemption, it shall be so stated.

And when the judgment, under which the sale has been
made, is made payable in a specified kind of money or our‘
rency, the certificate shall also state the kind of money or
currency in which such redemption may be made, which shall
be the same as that speciiied in the judgment. A duplicate
of such certificate shall be filed by the officer in the office of
the Recorder of the county.

tion, with four per cent. thereon in addition, and‘ the amount
of any assessment or taxes which the said last redemptioner
may have paid thereon after the redemption by him, with interest on such amount, and in addition the amount of any
liens held by said last redemptioner prior to his own, with
interest; provided, that the judgment under which the pro.
perty was sold need not be so paid as a lien. The property
may be again, and as often as the debtor or a redemptioner
is so disposed, redeemed from any previous redemptioner, within sixty days after the last redemption, with four per cent.
thereon in addition, and the amount of any assessments or

taxes which the last previous redemptioner paid after the
redemption by him, with interest thereon, and the amount of
any liens, other than the judgment under which the property

was sold, held by the said last redemptioner previous to his

own, with interest. Notice of redemption shall be given to,

the Sheriff ; if no redemption be made within six months
after the sale, the purchaser, or his assignee, shall be entitled
to a conveyance; or if so redeemed, whenever sixty days
have elapsed, and no other redemption has been made and
notice thereof given, the time for redemption shall have expired, and the last redemptioner or his assignee, shall be
entitled to a Sheriffs deed.* If the debtor redeem at any
time before the time for redemption expires, the effect of the
sale shall be terminated and he be restored to his estate,/'

§235. Until the expiration of redemption time, Court may
restrain waste on the property ; what shall be considered waste.

Until the expiration of the time allowed for redemption’
the Court may restrain the commission of waste on the prop-~
erty, by order granted with or without notice, on the application of the purchaser or the judgment creditor. But it
shall not be deemed waste for the person in possession of the
property at the time of sale, or entitled to possession afterwards, during the period allowed for redemption, to continue
to use it in the same manner in which it was previously used ;
or to use in the ordinary course of husbandry; or to make

'} ..._. "wary repairs of buildings thereon; or to use wood
n2--:.:: * _ the property therefore; or for the repair of
‘”'“~z=» .j '_ * fuel in his family, while he occupies the prop.u‘Ya'; - ustices’ Courts.

 3 and profits, who is to receive. &_»”'  '1 
:":;":=~:.. _' ser from the time of the sale until a redemptionM... "W ~.. _ - >tioner, from the time of his redemption until
 5 ' nption, shall be entitled to receive from the
-- _ session the rents of the property sold, or the
m,.°"_ - tee and occupation thereof.

‘jhwtm notices’ Courts.

!a}:¢,Mh.

§ 237. ‘If purchaser of real property be evicted for irregularities in the sale, what he may recover and from whom. When
judgment to be revived. Petition for the purpose, how and by
whom made.

If the purchaser of real property, sold on execution, or his
successor in interest, be evicted therefrom in consequence of
irregularities in the proceedings concerning the sale, or of
the reversal or discharge of the judgment, he may recover
the price paid, with interest, from the judgment creditor.
If the purchaser of property at Sheriffs sale or his successor
in interest, fail to recover possession, in consequence of irregularity in the proceedings concerning the sale, or because the
property sold was not subject to execution and sale, the
Court having jurisdiction thereof shall, on petition of such
party in interest, or his attorney, revive the original judgment for the amount paid by such purchaser at the sale, with
interest thereon, from the time of payment, at the same rate
that the original judgment bore; and when so revived the
said judgment shall have the same effect as an original judgment of the said Court of that date, and bearing interest as
aforesaid,’ and any other or after-acquired property, rents,
issues, or profits, of the said ‘debtor, shall be liable to levy
and sale under execution in satisfaction of such debt; provided, that no property of such debtor sold bona fide before
the filing of such petition, shall be subject to the lieu of said
judgment; and, provided further, that notice of the filing of
such petition shall be made by filing a notice thereof in the

Recorder’s ethos of the county where such property may be
situated; and that said judgment shall be revived in the
name of the original plaintifff or plaintifffs, for the use of said

petitioner, the party in interest.

‘Amended 1860, 303. Applicable to Justices’ Courts.

1. A urchaser at a sherifs sale is entitled to a notice of motion to set it

Esidei‘ lsgsrsonal service of the notice is not requisite. Eclcstein v. Calder-wood,
an. . .

2. The suit of seire facias is a remedy unknown to our practice, and cannot
be employed for the revival or enforcement of a judgment Humiston v.
Smith, 21 Cal. 129.

3. When the title of a purchaser at a sale in a foreclosure suit fails on account of defect of parties in such suit, he must seek relief by pursuing the
¢(:}oa1l1rs8e8pointed out in Boggs v. Hargrave, 16 Cal. 566. Btu-ton v. Lies, 21

4. The purchaser at sherifs sale is entitled to notice to set it aside. The
fact that he was absent from the State at the time of the sale, or at the time
the motion was made, did not excuse the defendants from serving him with a
copy of the order to show cause. Eclwtein v. Oalderwood, Jan. '1‘. 1868.

T I T L E X X I I .
CHAPTER II.--Proceedings supplementary to execution.

Sscnox 238. When execution returned unsatisfied, judgment creditor may
compel judgment debtor to appear before a Judge and
answer concerning his property; debtor not to go out of
his county.

239. Proceedings to compel debtor to appear; in what cases he
may be arrested ; what bail may be given.

240. Any (ciliebtor of the judgment debtor may pay the latter’:
cre tor.

241. Examination of debtors of ju ent debtor, or of those

having property belou ing to im.
242. Witness required to testi .
243. Judge may order property to be applied on execution.
244. Proceedings upon claim of another party to property, or on
denial of indebtedness to judgment debtor.
245. Disobedience of order, how punished.

§ 238. When execution returned unsatisfied, judgment creditor
may compel judgment debtor to appear before a Judge and
answer concerning his property; debtor not to go out of the
county.

When an execution against property of the judgment debtor,
or of any one of several debtors in the same judgment, issued

to the Sheriii‘ of the county where he resides; or if he do not
reside in this State, to the Sheriff of the county where the judgment roll is filed: is returned unsatisfied in whole or in part,
the judgment creditor, at any time after such return is made,
shall be entitled to an order from the Judge of the Court, or
a county Judge, requiring such judgment debtor to appear
and answer concerning his property, before such Judge, or a
referee appointed by him, at a time and place specified in
the order; but no judgment debtor shall be required to
attend before a Judge or referee out of the county in which

he resides, when proceedings are taken under the provisions

of this chapter.
N. Y. Code, § 292. Abb. Forms, 1865-1867. Applicable to Justices’ Courts.

38%. Edwards on Referees, 158, et seq.; and Edwards on Receivers in Equity,
, et seq.

9. These proceedings are a substitute for a creditor's bill in the old practice. Adams v. Haclcett, 7 Cal. 187.

3. The fact that a referee in the proceedings supplemen to execution
was the clerk of the attaching creditor, is not any considerab e evidence of
fraud, when the limited duties of the referee are considered. Id.

4. As soon as proceedings supplementary to execution were instituted before
the District Court, it obtained jurisdiction over the case, and had authority

to d 1 th f th ' d d b 'sfacti
of  °nqppfymoep ;'iqptc_lafi-rt.y cm. s J11 gment e tor to the sati on

§ 239. ‘Proceedings to compel debtor to appear ; in what cases
he may be arrested; what bail may be given.

Aiier the issuing of an execution against property, and upon
proof by affidavit, of a party or otherwise, to the satisfaction
of the Court, or of a Judge thereof, or County Judge, that
any judgment debtor has property which he unjustly refuses
to apply towards the satisfaction of the judgment, such
Court or Judge may, by an order require the judgment
debtor to appear at a specified time and place before such
Judge, or a referee appointed by him, to answer concerning
the same; and such proceedings may thereupon be had for
the application of the property of the judgment debtor
toward the satisfaction of the judgment as are provided upon
the return of an execution. Instead of the order requiring
the attendance of the judgment debtor, the Judge may upon

affidavit of the judgment creditor, his agent or attorney, if it
appear to him that there is danger of the debtor absconding,

. order the Sheriff to arrest the debtor and bring him before

such Judge. Upon being brought before the Judge, he may
be ordered to enter into an undertaking with sufficient surety

that he will attend from time to time before the Judge or
referee, as shall be -directed during the pendency of proceedings and until the final termination thereof, and will not
in the meantime dispose of any portion of his property, not
exempt from execution. In default of entering into such

undertaking he may be committed to prison.

‘Amended 1854, 90. See N. Y. Code,§ 292. Applicable to Justices’ Courb.

1. A commitment for contem t, for refusing to obey an order of Court
commanding the imprisonment o the party in contempt, until he shall comply with this order, Csh’<;;l.d6sEtalfo§tl§ that it is in the power of the party to
comp . parte 0 . 1 .

2. Where the plaintit proceeded, under section 239 of the Practice Act, to examine his judgment debtor as to a judgment held by him against A., and, after
examination, obtained an order to ap ly the same to the judgment of plaintil,
it seems that it is not necessary to ma e A. a arty to the proceeding. Id.

3. Though Courts are exclusive judges of t eir own contempts. still, a Barty
cannot be mprisoned for neglecting or refusing to do what it appears it out
of his power to perform. Adams v. Haslcell, 6 Cal. 316.

§ 240. Any debtor of the judgment debtor may paythe latter’:
creditor.

After the issuing of an execution against property, any
person indebted to the judgment debtor may pay to the
Sl1eriE the amount of his debt, or so much thereof as may be
necessary to satisfy the execution ; and the Sheriii"s receipt

shall be a suilicient discharge for the amount so paid.

See N. Y. Code, § 293. Applicable to Justices’ Courts.

1. B. recovered a judgment %ainst A. and others, and thereafter assigned it
for a valuable consideration to . Subsequent to the assignment, and before
notice thereof to the defendants, the paid the amount of the 'udgment, less
829 50, to the sheriff, who had served a arnishment upon them n D. v. R. and
to a constable on an execution held by him in V. v. B. Action brought by B.

ainst A. and others to recover the amount of his jud ment against them.

dd, that the case did not come under the provisions of the 5th section of the
Practice Act, but under section 240, and that as the defendants were not in fact
debtors of B., but of C., at the time of the payments, the were not disc
from liability on the judgment against them in favor of . In order to b ng
a party within the terms of the 240th section of the Practice Act, there must be
a judgment and an execution thereon against pro erty, and the person making
the payment must be indebted at the instant to in, against whom the execution runs. Brown v. Ayres ct ale, Oct. '1‘., 1867.

2. In an action for a malicious prosecut:lon.—-The plaintifff, after a
verdict in his favor, and before 'udgment assigned the cause of action and verb
dict, judgment having been an uently entered, defendant was eed
under the execution issued on other judgments against the plaint , and aid
to the sheriff the amount of the judgment in favor of the pla ntiif against him,
who applied the same upon the executions. Held, that the assignment was void,
and that the payment by defendant to the sheriff was a satisfaction of the judgment. Lawrence v. Martin, 22 Cal. 173.

§ 241. Examination of debtors of judgment debtor, or of those
having property belonging to him.

. After the issuing or return of an execution against property‘
of the judgment debtor, or of any one of several debtors in

the same judgment, or upon proof by affidavit hr otherwise,
to the satisfaction of the Judge, that any person or corporation has property of such judgment debtor, or is indebted to
him in an amount exceeding fifty dollars, the Judge may, by

an order, require such person or corporation, or any officer or».

member thereof, to appear at a specified time and place before

him, or a referee appointed by him, and answer concerning

the same.

18%;» N. Y. Code, § 294. Applicable to Justices’ Courts. Abb. Forms, 18651. ‘Sections two hundred and forty-one, two hundred and forty-two and two
hundred and forty-three of the Practice Act, relating to supplementary to execution, do not authorize the Court to m e an 0 er for the
application of property of the judgment debtor in the hands of a third

to the satisfaction of a judgment, upon the mere affidavit of the.p1a1n ' ,.

without first exanum' 'ng the arty alleged to have the pro rty in his possession as to the truth of the egation. The order to a plypthe property to the
satisfaction of the judgment must be based upon e answer of the rson
alleged to have it in his possession, and such other testimony as may adduced at the hearing in connection with his answer. The affidavit of the

C

plaintifff merely serves as the basis of a proc ’ to acquire £urisdicta'on of
B86 party who was before a stranger to the action. athaway v.

§ 242. Witness required to testify.

Witnesses may be required to appear and testify before
the Judge or referee, upon any proceeding under this chapter, in the same manner as upon the trial of an issue.
See N. Y. Code, 6295. Applicable to Justices’ Courts.

§ 243. Judge may order property to be applied on execution.

rady, 26 Cal.

The Judge or referee may order any property of the judgment debtor, not exempt from execution, inthe hands of. such
debtor or any other person, or due to the judgment. debtor,

to be applied towards the satisfaction of the judgment; ex-,

cept, that the earnings of the debtor for his personal services,
at any time within thirty days next preceding the order,
shall not be so applied, when it shall be made to appear by

the debtor's affidavit or otherwise, that such earnings are

necessary for the use of a family supported whollyor partly
by his labor. “

§ 244. Proceedings upon claim of another party to properly,
or on denial of indebtedness to judgment debtor.

If it appear that a person or corporation, alleged to have
property of the judgment debtor or indebted to him, claims
an interest in the property adverse to him, or denies the debt,
the Court or Judge may authorize, by an order made to that
effect, the judgment creditor to institute an action against
such person or corporation for the recovery of such interest
or debt; and the Court or Judge may, by order, forbid a
transfer or other disposition of such interest or debt, until an
action can be commenced and prosecuted to judgment. Such
order may be modified or vacated by the Judge granting the
same, or the Court in which the action is brought, at any
time, upon such terms as may be just.

See N Y. Code, g 299. Aplicable to Justices’ Courts.

§ 245. Disobedience of orders, how punished.
If any person, party or witness, disobey an order of the

referee, properly made, in the proceedings before him under
this chapter, he may be punished by the Court or Judge
ordering the reference, for a contempt.

See N. Y. Code, Q 302. Appplicable to Justices’ Courts.
1. It is contempt for a party to refuse to obey or answer the writ, on the
gun; that he is a witness attending on another Court. Page v. Randall, 6

TITLE XXIII.

ACTIONS IN PARTICULAR CASES.

Cmrrsn I.—Act2'ons for the farclosure of mortgages.

Sncnox 246. Proceedings in foreclosure suits.
247. Surplus money to be d ‘ted in Court.

248. Proceedings when do t secured falls due at cliierent
times.

§ 246. ‘Proceedings in foreclosure suits.

There shall be but one action for the recovery of any
debt, or the enforcement of any right secured by mortgage
upon real estate or personal property, which action shall
be in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. In
actions for the foreclosure of mortgages, the Court shall
have power, by its judgment, to direct a sale of the encumbered property, (or so much thereof as may be necessary),
and the application of the proceeds of the sale to the payment of the costsof the Court and the expenses of the sale,
and the amount due to the plaintifff; and if it appear from
the Sheriffs return that the proceeds are insufficient, and a
balance still remains due, judgment shall then be docketed
for such balance against the defendant or defendants personally liable for the debt, and shall then become a lien on
the real estate of such judgment debtor, as in other cases
on which execution may be issued. N 0 person holding a
conveyance from or under the mortgagor of the property
mortgaged, or having a lien thereon, which conveyance or

for principal or interest, the Court may, on motion, order
more to be sold. But if the property cannot be sold in portions, without injury to the parties, the whole may be ordered
to be sold in the first-instance, and the entire debt and costs
paid, there being a rebate of interest Where such rebate is
proper.
See notes under § 246.

1. When a debt secured is payable in installments, the mortgagee or his as
signee has a right to bring an action to foreclose the mortgage, when the mat
installment falls due and is not paid. Grattan v. .W'zggins, 23 Cal. 16.

2. Where several notes have been given which are secured by one mortgagee,
and the notes are assigned to different persons, and the assignor has a right, by
agreement with the assignees, to fix the rights of the purchasers of the several
notes to the mortgage security. Id.

3. Where, in such a case, the assi nee of one note, having the first right to the
benefit of the mortgaged security, orecloses when the debt falls due, and obtains a decree under which all the mortgaged property is sold, such foreclosure
and sale operate as an extinguishment of the mortgage. .

4. The holders of the other notes secured by the mortgage have a right to
redeem from the sale made under such foreclosure; but when not made, parties
to the action must assert this right to redeem within four years, or it is barred
by the Statute of Limitations. Id.

 

TITLE XXIV.

CHAPTER II.—Actz°ons for nuisance, waste and willful trespass,
in certain cases, on real property.

Stcrxox 249. Nuisance defined, and actions for.
250. Waste, actions for.
251. Trespass for cutting or carrying away trees, etc., actions for.
252. Measure of damages in certain cases under the last section.
253. Damages in actions for forcible entry, etc., may be trebled.

§ 249. Nuisance defined, and actions for.

Anything which is injurious to health, or indecent, or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life
or property, is a nuisance, and the subject of an action. Such
action may be brought by any person whose property is injuriously aifected, or whose personal enjoyment is lessened by
the nuisance ; and by the judgment, the nuisance may be enjoined or abated, as well as damages recovered.

§ 251. Trespass for cutting or carryz'ng away trees, etc.,
actions for.

Any person who shall cut down, or carry oil‘, any wood or
underwood, tree or timber, or girdle or otherwise injure
any tree or timber on the land of another person, or on the
street or highway in front of any person’s house, village
or city lot, or cultivated grounds; or on the commons or
public grounds, of any city or town; or on the street or
highway, in front thereof, without lawful authority, shall be
liable to the owner of such land, or to such city or town, for
treble the amount of damages which may be assessed therefore, in a civil action, in any Court having jurisdiction.

Abb. Forms, 1768.

1. An action may be maintained against a trespasser, who is cutting timber,
as soon as the timber is cut. Sampson v. Hammond, 4 Cal. 184.

2. An injunction will not be dissolved restraining defendants from felling trees,
where the question of boundary is in dispute; especially, where the defendant-’s bond will fully protect the defendant for an delay ‘if it should turn out
that they have the right. Buclcelew v. Estell, 5 Ca . 108.

§ 252. Measure of damages, in certain cases, under the last
section.

Nothing in the last section shall authorize the recovery of
more than the just value of the timber, taken from uncultivated woodland, for the repair of a public highway or
bridge upon the land, or adjoining it.

If a person recover damages for a forcible or unlawful
entry in or upon, or detention of, any building or any cultivated real property, judgment may be entered for three
times the amount at which the actual damages are assessed.

Abb. Forms, 1768.

1. When treble damages are given by a statute, the demand for such damages
must be expressly inserted in the declaration, which must either recite the
statute. hr conclude to the damage of the plaintiff against the form of a statute.
Ohipman v. Emeric, 5 Cal. 239. But this does not apply to Justices’ Courts ;
see 0'0allaghan v. Booth, 6 Id. 66.

2. If the Court refuses to treble the damages, the plaintifff has an adequate
remedy by appeal, and an application for mandamus to the Court below to
render judgment for treble damages, must be denied. Early v. Mannie, 15 Cal.
149.

 

TITLE XXV.

CHAPTER III.-—Actz'ons to determine conflicting claims to real
property, and other provisions relating to actions ‘concerning
real estate.

Sxcnox 254. Parties to an action to quiet title.
255. When plaintifff shall not recover costs.
256. If plaint:il1"s title terminates pending the suit, what he
may recover, and how verdict and Judgment to be.
257. When value of improvements shall be allowed as a setpoff.
258. An order may be made to allow a party to survey and
measure the land in dispute.
259. Order, what to contain and how served; if mine
injury done the surveying, to be liable therefore.
A mortgage shall not deemed a conveyance, whatever
its terms.
261. When Court may grant injunction; during foreclosure;
after sale on execution; before conveyance.
262. Damages may be recovered for injury to the possession
after sale and before delivery of possession.
263. Action not to be prejudiced by alienation pending suit.

§ 254. Parties to an action to quiet title.

An action may be brought by any person in possession, by
himself or his tenant, of real property, against any person
who claims an estate or interest therein adverse to him,
for the purpose of determining such adverse claim, estate, or
interest.

§ 256. I_fplaintg'f’.s title terminates pending the suits; what
he may recover, and how verdict and judgment to be.

In an action for the recovery of real property, where the
plaintifff shows a right to recover at the time the action was
commenced, but it appears that his right has terminated
during the pendency of the action, the verdict and judgment
shall be according to the fact; and the plaintifff may recover
damages for withholding the property.

Abb. Forms, 1778.

1. Under our Practice Act, if it appear that the  in ejectment had
a right to recover at the commencement of the suit, t that his right has terminated during its pendenc , he cannot recover the possession, but only his

 . Moore v. Tice, 2 Cal. 513.‘

2. e death of the wife, after a suit brought by herself and husband for
the homestead, defeats a recovery by the hue nd, though the right to recover
existed at the commencement of the suit. Gee v. Moore, 14 Cal. 472.

“I3. The defetndalilnt canning prov; ogfthe trial 0? an action olf;a¢;jectment,t:ir
epurposeo sowing at 'n' srigto possession termina
that since the action was comnlienced plaintid has conveyed the land to another person, unless the fact of such conveyance has been set up in the original or supplemental answer. Moss v. Shear, 30 Cal. 467. '

4. If the laintin‘ has conveyed the land demanded pending ejeotment, the
Court, by e consent of both the plaintifff and vendee, may, under the provisions of the Practice Act, make an order continuing the action in the name
of the original plaintid. Id. ' ‘ '

5. If the plaintiff in ejectment transfers the demanded premises pending
the action, and the Court orders the action continued in the name of the

ongmsl plaintid, he may recover judgment for both the possession and the
rents and profits. Id. “A

6. The sale and transfer by the plaintid in ejectment of the demanded
premises pending the action, is a transfer of the cause of action within the
meaning of the sixteenth section of the Practice Act, and the action may be
continued in the name of the original plaintiff. Id. §257. When value of improvements shall be allowed as a
set-of.

When damages are claimed for withholding the property
recovered, upon which permanent improvements have been
made by a defendant, or those under whom he claims, holding under color of title adversely to the claims of the plaintid, in good faith, the value of such improvements shall be
allowed as a set-oh’ against such damages.

on’ motion, upon notice by either party, for good cause shown,
grant an order allowing to such party the right to enter upon
‘the property and make survey and measurement thereof for

‘the purpose of the action.

‘ Amended 1860, 304.

§ 259. Order, what to contain, and how served ; if unnecessary i1y'ury done,‘ the party surveying to be liable therefore.

The order shall describe the property, and a copy thereof
shall be served on the owner or occupant; and thereupon
such party may enter upon the property, with necessary sur.veyors and assistants and make such survey and measurement : but if any unnecessary injury be done to the prop
_erty, he shall be liable therefore.

§ 260. A mortgage shall not be deemed a conveyance, whatever
its terms.
' .A mortgage of real property shall not be deemed a conveyance, whatever its terms, so as to enable the owner of the

mortgage to recover possession of the real property, without
a foreclosure and sale. '

§261. When Oourt mayyrant injunction during foreclosure
after sale on execution before conveyance. «

The Court may, by injunction, on good cause shown, restrain the party in possession from doing any act to the
injury of real property during the foreclosure of a mortgage
thereon: or after a sale on execution, before a conveyance.

1. This remedy is only %1éeventive; it is not exclusive of any other remedy.
Bands v. Pfeifer, 10 Cal. .

Q. Theremedybyinjunctionto restrainthe removalnf nxtures, undersection two hundred and sixty-one of the Practice Act, is only preventive; it is
not exclusive of any other remedy. Id.

§ 262. Damages may be recovered for injury to the possession
after sale and before delivery of possession, who by.

When real property shall have been sold on execution, the
purchaser thereof, or any person who may have succeeded
to his interest, may, after his estate becomes absolute, recover
damages for injury to the property by the tenant in possession, after sale and before possession is delivered under the

conveyance.
Beeanie,§246,noteNo. 106.

§'263. Action not to be prejudiced by alienation, pending suit.

An action for the recovery of real property against a person in possession cannot be prejudiced by any alienation

made by such person, either before or after the commencement of the action.

T I T L E X X V I. '
Cnuvrsa IV .—Actions for the partition of real property.

8Ic'nm¢264. 'Whomaybring'actionsfor tion. a
266. Interests of all parties shall set forth in the complaint.
Lieu-holders not of record nqd not be made parties.
Plaintif shall die notice of lie pendants.
Summons shall be directed to all persons interested in
Untkhnfogvn  may be served by publication
e ' tso partiesmay ascertained’ .in eac'n.
%swer of dtetzrlidants, what téae contain.  ho
Parqh 'tion. be _ N‘ be
L1en— 0 rs shall a made parties, or a eree a
2 pointed to ascertain their rights. P274. Lien-h<7_ldt;er(;shallhe nolinedtoappear before the referee
appom
275.‘ The Court may order a sale or partition,and appoint
referees therefore.
276. Partition shall be made according to the rights of the
‘esasdeterminedby thecourt. ~"
277. ereesshallmakeare rtof their proceedings.
278. The Court may set de or amrm report, and enter
éatlidgmentthereon. Uponwhom-judgment to be conusive.
279. Judgment shall not afect tenants for years to the whole

P’°P°""7- . . .
280. Expenses of partition shall be apportioned among the

281. A ‘en onanundivided interestofanypartyshallbea
charge only on the share assigned to such party.
282. Estateforlifeor earsmayhesetofinapartofthe
property not so when not all sold. '
283. Application of proceeds of sale of encumbered‘ roperty.
284. Part holding other securities may be  drst to
285.

 §.§.§

e ust them.
Proceeds at sale, disposition of.

When  into Court, the causes ma be continued for
the on of the claims of e parties.

287 Sales by referees shall be made at ublic auction.

288. Thecourtshalldirectthetermso saleorcredrt.

289. Referees may take securities for purchase money.

290. Tenants whose estate has been sold shall receive coma

nsation.

29]. Thgecourt may ax such compensation.

292. The Court shall protect tenants unknown. -r

293. The Court shall ascertain and secure the value of future

contingent or vested interests.‘
294. Terms of sale shall be made known at the time. Lou
shall be sold separately.

295. Who may not be purchasers.

296. Referees shall make a report of the sale to the Court.

297. ' If conllrmed. conveyances may be executed. ’

298. Proceeding if a lien-holder become a purchaser.

299. Convegces shall he recorded, and will be a bar against

Batman 300. Proceeds of sale belonging to parties unknown shall be
invested for their benefit.
301. Investment shall be made in the name of the clerk of the
county. . . . .
302. When- the interets of the parties are ascertained, securities
shall be taken in their names.
. 303. Duties of the clerk makin investments. e V
304. When unequal partition ordered, compensation may be
adjudged in certain cases.
305. The share of ‘an infant may be paid to his guardian.

306. The guardian of an insane person may receive the proceeds
of su h party’s interest.

307. A gas ian may consent. to partition without action, and

execute releases.
308. Costs of partition a lien upon the shares of the parcenera
309. The Court by consent may appoint a single referee.

' § 264. ‘ Who may bring actions for partition.

3 When several co-tenants hold and are in possession of real
property as parceners‘, joint tenants, or tenants in common,
in which one or more of them have an" estate of inheritance,
or for life or lives, or for years, an action may be brought by
one or more of such persons. for a partition thereof according to the respective rights of the persons interested therein.
and for a sale of such property, ora part thereof, if it appear
that a partition cannot be made Without great prejudice to
the owners. ‘ , _ p .‘ ‘

the itiheritanece depend upon an executory devise, or- the remainder be a contingent remainder, so that such parties cannot be named, that fact shall be set forth in the complaint.‘

Abb. Harms, 687-688.

1. Complaint in partition.-—A com laint in an action for partition must
aver that the co-tenants hold and are possession of real property as joint
tenants, or as tenants in common, in which props one or more of them
have an estate or inheritance, or for life or lives, or or years; and if these
avenneuts are not made, it does not state facts. sumcient to constitute a cause
of action.. Bradley et al. v. Harlcness, 26 Cal. 76.

2. In a complamt to obtain partition of land, a general allegation that
“ the premises cannot be divided mates and bounds without prejudice," is
aumcient, without an allegation o the facts upon which the laintiff is to
ebtaina particular mode of partition. DeUprey v. Delfprey. Cal. 331.

3. A complaint in partition is good which 18 silent upon the subject of the
mode of partition. d.’

4. Tenant in common of of a tract-of land is roper party in a suit for
partition of the whole. v. Salmon, Jul T. 1 ; see ante, § 13. 14, 39;
I00 Duton v. Warschauer. 21 Cal. 609, and way v. Desoto, Id. 191.

§ 266. ‘Lien-holders not of record need not be made parties.

No person having a conveyance of or claiming a lien on
the property, or some part of it, need be made a party to the

action unless such conveyance or lien appear of record.
‘Amended 1866, 704. '

§ 267. ‘Penny shall rile notice of lis pendens.

Immediately after filing the complaint in the District Court,
the plaintifff shall file with the Recorder of. the county or of
the several counties in which the property is situated, either
a copy of such complaint or a notice of the pendency of the
action, containing the names of the parties so far as known,
the object of the action. and a description of the property to
be adected thereby. From the time of the filing, it shall be
deemed notice to all persons.

‘Amended 1866, 705. Abb. Forms, 110.

§ 268. Summons shall be directed to all persons. interested in

the property.

The summons shall be directed to all the joint tenants and
tenants in common, and all persons having any interest in, or
any liens of record by mortgage, judgment, or otherwise, upon
the p_roperty, or upon any particular portion thereof; and
generally, to all persons unknown, who have or claim any

interest in the property.

§ 269. Unknown parties may be served by publication.
If a party having a share or interest is unknown, or any

one of the known parties reside out of the State, or cannot

be found therein, and such fact is made to appear by affidavit,
the summons may be served on such absent or unknown

party, by publication, as in other cases. When publication

is made, the summons, as published, shall be accompanied by '
abrief description of the property which is the subject of '

the action.
See § 31.

§ 270. '.AJiswer'of defendants, what to contain.

The defendants who have been personally served‘ with
the summons and a copy of the complaint, orwho shall have
appearedwithout such service, shall set forth in their answers, fully and particularly, the origin, nature, and extent of
their respective interests in the property; and if such defendants claim a lien on the property by mortgage, judgment,
or otherwise, they shall correctly state the original amount
and date of the same, and the true sum remaining due thereon;
also, whether the same has been secured in any other way or
not; and if secured, the nature and extent of such security,

or they shall be deemed to have waived their right to such .i

lien.
‘Amended'1866, 705. Abb. Forms, 1079.

1. Guardians ad (item, a pointed to re resent an infant ina case of partition;
have power to defend for e infant sole y against the claim set up for partition
ofathe common estate. Waterman v. Lawrence, 19 Cal. 210.nd h

. The eed1ng' for partition is a special‘ - roceeding, a t e statute pregcribes ib  and sheet; and though, afterriurisdiction has attached, errors
In the course of the cause cannot be collaterally shown to im ach a judgment,«yet, so far at least as the rights’ of infants are. involved, a «Court has
no jurisdiction, except over the matter of partition. Id.

_3. In an action ofpartition, a defendant cannot claim that the action be
dulnissedas to him, on the ground that his answer disclaims any interest in
the land, unless he has made the disclaimer in absolute and unconditional
terms. Del)’ v.DeUprey,27Cal.33l. .

4. A defen t in partition is not entitled to have the action » dismissed by
reason of Itge force and chest of any defense which he may set up in his
“SW03. 0 —- ' 4 —

§ 271. Tlzerighls of all parties may be ascertainedin
The rights of the several parties, plaintill‘s..as well as

defendants, may be put in issue, tried and determined by
such action; and when a sale of the premises is necessary,

the title shall be ascertained by proof to the satisfaction of
the Court, before the judgment of sale shall be made; and

where service of the complaint has been made by publica.
tion, like proof shall be required of the right of the absent
or unknown parties, before such judgment is rendered ; except that where there are several unknown persons having
an interest in the property, their rights may be considered

together in the action, and not as between themselves.
Abb. Forms, 1803-1805.

1. If between the parties to an action for partition disputes exist as to their
right or interest in ap} respect, such disputes may be litigated and determined. Morenhout v. -cguera, 32 Cal. 289.

2. Under our practice, any question affecting the right of the plaintm’ to a
partition, or the ri hts of each and all of the parties in the land, may be put

iéinlissue, tried an determined in such action. De Uprey v. De Uprey, 28
. 331.

3. In a partition suit, if the defendant sets up that he is the sole owner of
the premises, the Court proceeds in one action and determines all the questions at law; and if the decision is favorable to the plaintim then takes up
and disposes of the equitable part of the case; if for the defendant, the tition is denied without any further action. Bollo v. Navarro, Oct. T. 1 67.

4. Title may be tried in an action of partition. Id.

§ 272. ‘Partial partition.

Whenever from any cause it shall have become, in the
opinion of the Court, impracticable or highly inconvenient to
make a complete partition, in the first instance among all the
parties in interest, it shall be lawful for the Court to first
ascertain and determine the shares or interest respectively
held by the original co-tenants, and thereupon to adjudge
and cause a partition to be made, as if such original co-tenants
were the parties and sole parties in interest and the only
parties to the action, and thereafter to proceed in like manner to adjudge and make partition separately of each share
or portion so ascertained and allotted, as between those
claiming under the original tenant to whom the same shall
have been so set apart, or allow them to remain tenants in

common thereof, as they may desire.
‘Amended 1866, 705.

§ 273. ‘Lien-holders shall be made parties, or a referee be appointed to ascertain their rights.

If it shall appear to the Court, by the certificate of the

County Recorder, or County Clerk, or by the sworn or veriilied statement of any person who may have examined or
searched the records, that there are outstanding liens or encumbrances of record upon such real property, or any part
or portion thereof, which existed and were of record at the
time of the commencement of said action, and the persons
holding such» liens are not made parties to the action, the
Court shall either order such persons to be made parties to
the action, by an amendment or supplemental complaint, or
appoint a referee to ascertain whether or not such liens or encumbrances have been paid, or if not paid, what amount remains due thereon, and their order among the liens or in‘
cumbrances severally held by the said persons and the parties to the said action, and whether the amount remaining
due‘ thereon has been secured in any manner, and if secured,
the nature and extent of the security.

‘ mmended 1862, 88.

§ 274. Lien-holders shall be notified to appear before the referee appointed.

’ The plaintifff shall cause a notice to be served a reasonable,
time previous to the day for appearance before the referee
appointed, as provided in the last section, on each person
having outstanding liens of record, who is not a party to the
action, to appear before the referee at a specified time and
place, to make proof by his own aliidavit or otherwise of the
true amount due, or to become" due, contingently or absolutely
thereon. In case such person be absent, or his residence be
unknown, service may be made by publication, or notice to
his agents, under the direction of the Court, in such manner
as may be proper. The report of the referee thereon shall
be made to the Court, and shall be confirmed, modified, or
set aside, and a new reference ordered, as the justice of the
case may require. '

§ 27 5.’ The Court may order a sale or partition and appoint’

referees therefore. V
- If it be alleged in the complaint,‘and be established by

evidence, or if it appear by the evidence without such allegation, in the complaint, to the satisfaction -of the Court, that’

the property, or any part of it, is so situated that partition
cannot be made without great‘ ‘prejudice to the owners, the
Court may order a sale thereof. Otherwise, upon the requisite proofs’ being made, it shall order a ‘partition, according
to the respective rights of the parties, as ascertained by the
Court, and appoint three referees therefore ;' andshall desiga
nate the portion to remain undivided for the owners whose‘

interests remain unknown, or- are not ascertained.
% § W90

§ 276. ‘Partition shall be made according to the rights of the
parties as determined by the Court.

In making the partition the referees shall divide the property and allot the several portions thereof to the respective
parties, quality and quantity relatively considered, according
to the respective rights of the parties as determined by the
Court, pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, designating
the several portions by proper landmarks, and may employ a
surveyor with the necessary assistance to aid them.

‘ Amended 1866, 705.

1. In an action for partition of a water ditch, an account of the proceeds for
water rates can be taken, and if one of the tenants in common holds a mortg
on the interest of his co-tenants, that can be adjusted in the action by an a
cation of the proceeds of the mcrtgagor’s interest towards the payment ct? the
same. ‘Bradley et al. v. Harlcness, 26 Cal. 76.

2. In an action for partition, the laintil cannot foreclose a mortgage which
he holds on defendant’s interest in a property, and cut on’ defendant s equity
of redemption by an absolute sale as in partition. ' Id.

§ 277. Referees shall make a report of their proceedings.

The referees shall make a report of their proceedings,
specifying therein. the manner of executing their trust, describing the property divided, and the shares. allotted to

each party, with a particular description of each share.
Abb. Forms, 1850.

§ 278. ‘The Court may set aside or ajirm the report, and enter
judgment thereupon ; judgment shall be conclusive.

[1867-8.] The Court may condrm‘, change, modify,» or set
aside the report, and, if ‘necessary, appoint new referees.
Upon the report being confirmed, judgment shall be rendered that such partition be effectual forever, which judg-.
ment shall be binding and conclusive:

First-—0n all persons named as parties to the action, and
their legal representatives, who have at the time any interest in the property divided or any part thereof, as owners in
fee or as tenants for life or for years, or as entitled to the
reversion, remainder, or the inheritance of such property,
or of any part thereof, after the determination of a particular estate therein, and who by any contingency may be entitled to a beneficial interest in the property, or who have
an interest in any undivided share thereof as tenants for

years or for life.
Sccond—On all persons interested in the property, who
may be unknown, to whom notice shall have been given of

the action for partition by publication.
TIu'rd—On all other persons claiming from such parties

or persons, or either of them.

And no judgment shall be invalidated by reason of the
decease of any party before final judgment or decree; but
such judgment or decree shall be as conclusive against the
heirs, legal representatives or assigns of such decedent, as
if such iinal judgment were entered before such decease.

‘Amended 1866, 705; 1867-8, 629. Abb. Forms, 1803-1805.

1. Judynent in partition.——A judginent in an action for partition is binding and conclusive as to title, upon the parties who are served with summons or- appear-,and a bar toanew action. Morenlooutv. Higuera, 32 Cal.

89.
8. If the complaint in 'tion avers that a defendant has, or claims to

have, some interest in the d, which interest is unknown to plaintii, and a
summons is served on such defendant, and he fails to ap , and the judgment does not give such defendant any interest, it is res ' icata, and estops
him from recovering in a new action. Id.

3. The etect of a judgment in dpartition is to be determined by our statute,

ndnotbythecommonlaw. I. ,

§ 279. Judgment shall not afect tenants for years to the whole

PT°P¢T‘.VBut such judgment and partition shall not affect tenants for

years less than ten, to the whole of the property which is the
subject of the partition.

§ W. ‘Etparsesqfpartitimz shallbeapportioned among the
The expenses of the referees, including those of asurveyor
and his assistant or assistants, when employed, shall be ascertained and allowed by the Court, and the amount thereof, together with the fees allowed by the Court, in its discretion, to
the referees, shall be apportioned among the different parties
to the action, equitably.

‘Amended 1866, 706.

§ 281. A lien on an undivided interest of any party shall be a
charge only on the share  to such party.

When a lien is on an undivided interest or estate of any of
the parties, such lien, if a partition be made, shall thenceforth
be a charge only on the share assigned to such party ;but such
share shall be first charged with its just proportion of the costs
of the partition, in preference to such lien.

' § 282. Estate jhrli/is or years may beset of in a part of the
property not sold, when not all sold.

When a part of the property only is ordered to be sold, if
there be an estate for life, or years, in an undivided share of

the whole property, such estate may be set off in any part of
the property not ordered to be sold.

§ 283. Application of proceeds of sale of encumbered property.

The proceeds of the sale of the encumbered property shall
be applied under the direction of the Court, as follows:

1st. To pay its just proportion of the general costs of the
action;

2d. '1‘o pay the costs of the reference;

3d. To satisfy and cancel of record the several liens in their

order of priority, by payment of the sums due and to become

due; the amount due to be verified by affidavit at the time of
payment; 4th. The residue among the owners of the property sold,
according to their respective shares therein.

§ 284. Party holding other securities may be required first to
exhaust them.

Whenever any party to an action who holds alien upon the
property, or any part thereof, has other securities for the payment of the amount of such lien, the Court may, in its discretion, order such securities to be exhausted before a distribution

of the pweds of sale, or may order a just deduction to be

made from the amount of the lien on the property, on account
thereof.

§ 285. Proceeds of sale, disposition 

The proceeds of sale and the securities taken by the referees,
or any part thereof, shall be distributed by them to the persons
entitled thereto, whenever the Court so directs. But in case
no direction be given, all such proceeds and securities shall be

paid into Court, or deposited therein, or as directed by the
Court. '

§ 286. When paid into Court, the cause may be continued jinthe determination of the claims of the parties.

When the proceeds of sales of any shares or parcels belonging to persons who are parties to the action, and who are
known, are paid into Court, the action may be continued as
between such parties, for the determination of their respective
claims thereto, which shall be ascertained and adjudged by the
Court. Further testimony may be taken in Court, or by a
referee, at the discretion of the Court, and the Court may, if
necessary, require such parties to present the facts or law in
controversy, by pleadings, as in an original action.

§ 287. Sales by referees shall be made at public auction.

All sales of real property, made by referees under this chapter, shall be made by public auction to the highest bidder,
upon notice published in the manner required for the sale of
real property on execution. The notice shall state the terms
of sale, and if the property or any part of it is to be sold subject to a prior estate, charge or lien, that shall be stated in the
notice.

§ 288. The Court shall direct the terms of sale or credit.

The Court shall, in the order for sale, direct the terms of
credit which may be allowed for the purchase money of any
portion of the premises of which it may direct a sale on credit,
and for that portion of which the purchase money is required,
by the provisions hereinafter contained, to be invested for the
benefit of unknown owners, infants or parties, out of the State.

§ 289. ‘Referees may  securities for purchase money.

The referees may take separate mortgages and other securities for the whole, or convenient portions of the purchase
money of such parts of the property as are directed by the
Court to be sold on credit, for the shares of any known owner
of full age, in the name of such owner; and for the shares of
an infant in the name of the guardian of such infant, and for
other shares, in the name of the Clerk of the county and his
successors in office.

1 Amended 1854, 90.

§ 290. Tenants whose estate has been sold shall receive compensation.

The person entitled to a tenancy for life, or years, whose
estate shall have been sold, shall be entitled to receive such
sum as may be deemed a reasonable satisfaction for such estate,
and which the person so entitled may consent to accept instead
thereof, by an instrument in writing filed with the Clerk of
the Court. Upon the filingof such consent, the Clerk shall
enter the same in the minutes of the Court.

§ 291. The Court may jia: such compensation.

If such consent be not given, filed and entered, as provided
in the last section, at or before a judgment of sale is rendered,
the Court shall ascertain and determine what proportion of the
proceeds of the sale, after deducting expenses, will be a just
and reasonable sum to be allowed on account of such estate;
and shall order the same to be paid to such party, or deposited
in Court for him, as the case may require.

§ 292. The C'ourt shall protecttenants unknown.

If the persons entitled to such estate for life or years be
unknown, the Court shall provide for the protection of their
rights, in the same manner, as far as may be, as if they were

known and had appeared.

§ 293. The Court shall ascertain and secure the value qffidure
contingent or vested interests. '

In all cases of sales when it appears that any person has a
vested or contingent future right or estate in any of the prop

erty sold, the Court shall ascertain and settle the proportional

value of such contingent, or vested right or estate, and shall
direct such proportion of the proceeds of the sale to be invested, secured, or paid over, in such manner as to protect the
rights and interests of the parties.

§294. Terms of sale shall be made known at the time. Lots
shall be sold separately.

In all cases of salesiof property, the terms shall be made
known at the time; and if the premises consist of distinct
farms or lots, they shall be sold separately.

§ 295. lVho may not be purchasers.

Neither of the referees, nor any person for the benefit of
either of them, shall be interested in any purchase; nor shall
a guardian of an infant party be, interested in the purchase. of

any real property, being the subject of the action, except for
the benefit of the infant. All sales contrary to the provisions
of this section shall be void.

§ 296. Referees shall make a report of the sale to the Oourt.

After completing a sale of the property, or any part thereof
ordered to‘ be sold, the referees shall report the same to the
Court, with a description of the different parcels of land sold
to each purchaser; the name of the purchaser; the price paid

for secured; the terms and conditions of the sale; and the

securities, if any, taken. The report shall be filed in the
office of the Clerk of the county where the property is situated.

§ 297. If confirmed, conveyances may be executed.

If the sale be confirmed by the Court, an order shall be entered, directing the referees to execute conveyances and take
securities pursuant to such sale; which they are hereby authorized to do. Such order may also give directions to them

respecting the disposition of the proceeds of the sale.
§ 298. Proceeding if a lien-holder become a purchaser.

When a party entitled to a share of the property, or an
encumbrancer entitled to have his lien paid out of the sale,
becomes a purchaser, the referees may take his receipt for so
much of the proceeds of the sale as belongs to him.

§ 299. Uonveyatzces shall be recorded, and will be a bar against
parties.

The conveyances shall be recorded in the county where the
premises are situated, and shall be a bar against all persons
interested in the property in any way, who shall have been
named as parties in the action; and against all such parties
and persons as were unknown, if the summons have been
served by publication, and against all persons claiming from
them, or either of them.

§ 300. Proceeds of sale belonging to parties unknown shall be
invested for their benefit.

When there are proceeds of a sale belonging to an unknown
owner, or to a person without the State, who has no legal representative within it, the same shall be invested in securities
on interest, for thebenefit of the persons entitled thereto.

§301. Investment shall be in the name of the Clerk of the
county.

When the security of the proceeds of sale is taken, or when
an investment of any such proceeds is made, it shall be done,
except as herein otherwise provided, in the name of the Clerk
of the county where the papers are filed, and his successors in
office, who shall hold the same for the use and benefit of the
parties interested, subject to the order of the Court.

§ 302. When the interests of the parties are ascertained, securities shall be taken in their names.

When security is taken by the referees on a sale, and the
parties interested in such security, by an instrument in writing
under their hands delivered to the referees, agree upon the
shares and proportions to which they are respectively entitled;
or when shares and proportions have been previously adjudged
by the Court, such securities shall be taken in the names of,
and payable to, the parties respectively entitled thereto; and
shall be delivered to such parties upon their receipt therefore.
Such agreement and receipt shall be returned and filed with

the Clerk.
§ 303. Duties of the Clerk making investments.

, The Clerk in whose name a security is taken, or by whom

an investment is made, and his successors in office, shall receive the interest and principal as it becomes due, and apply

' and invest the same as the Court may direct; and shall file in

his office all securities taken, and keep an account in a book
provided and kept for that purpose, in the Clerk’s office, free
for inspection by all persons, of investments and monies received by him thereon, and the disposition thereof.

§ 304. ‘ W7zen unequal partition is ordered, compensation may
be adjudged in certain cases.

When it appears that partition cannot be made equal between the parties, according to their respective rights, without
prejudice to the rights and interests of some of them, and a
partition be ordered, the Court may adjudge compensation to
be made by one party to another, on account of the inequality;
but such compensation shall not be required to be made to
others by owners unknown, nor by an infant, unless it shall
appear that such infant has personal property sufficient for that
purpose, and that his interest will be promoted thereby. And
in all cases the Court shall have power to make compensatory
adjustment between the respective parties, according to the
ordinary principles of equity.

‘Amended 1866, 706.

§ 305. The share of an infant may be paid to his guardian.

When the share of an infant is sold, the proceeds of the
sale may be paid by the referee making the sale to his general
guardian, or the special guardian appointed for him in the
action, upon giving the security required by law, or directed
by order of the Court.

§ 306.. The guardian of an insane person may receive the proceeds of such party/’s interest.

The guardian who may be entitled to the custody and management of the estate of an insane person, or other person adjudged incapable of conducting his own affairs, whose interest

in real property shall have been sold, may receive, in behalf
of such person, his share of'the proceeds of such real property’

from the referees, on executing with sufficient sureties, an.

undertaking approved by a Judge of the Court, or by a
County Judge, that he will faithfully discharge the trust reposed in him, and will render a true and just account to the

person entitled, orto his legal representive.

§ 307. A guardian may consent to partition without action,and
execute releases.

The general guardian of an infant, and the guardian entitled to the custody and management of the estate of an
insane person, or other person adjudged incapable of conducting his own affairs, who is interested in real estate held
in joint tenancy, or in common, or in any other manner so as
to authorize his being made a party to an action for the partition thereof, may consent to a partition without action, and
agree upon the share to be set off to such infant or other
person entitled, and may execute a release in his behalf to
the owners of the shares, of the parts to which they may be
respectively entitled, upon an order of the Court.

§ 308. Costsof partition a lien upon the shares of the parceners.

The costs of partition, including fees of referees and other
disbursements, shall be paid by the parties respectively entitled to share in the lands divided, in proportion to their
respective interests therein, and may be included and specified in the judgment. In that case, they shall be a lien on
the several shares, and the judgment may be enforced by execution against such shares, and against other property held
by the respective parties. When, however, a litigation
arises between some of the parties only, the Court may
require the expense of such litigation to be paid by the parties thereto, or any of them.

,§ 309. The Court by consent may appoint a single referee.

The Court, with the consent of the parties, may appoint a
single referee, instead of three referees, in the proceedings

under the provisions of this chapter ; and the single referee, ,

when thus appointed, shall have all the powers and perform

all the duties required of the three referees.
See Gray's New York Practice, Special Proceedings.

T I T L E X X V I I .
CHAPTER V.—Actz'ons for the usurpation of an twice or ‘franchise.

Slcnox 310. Action may be brought against any party usm-ping, etc.,

any office or franc ise.

311. Name of person entitled to office may be set forth in the
complaint; if fees have been received by the usurper,
he maybe arrested.

312. Judgment may determine the rights of both incumbent
and claimant.

313. When rendered in favor of applicant.

314. Damages may be recovered by successful applicant.

315. When severa persons claim the same office, their rights
ma be determined b a single action.

316. II de endant found ' ty, what judgment to be rendered

§ 310. Action may be brought against any party usurping, etc.,
any qfice or franchise.

An action may be brought by the Attorney General in the‘
name of the people of this State, upon his own information,
or upon the complaint of a private party, against any person
who usurps, intrudes into, or unlawfully holds or exercises
any public office, civil or military, or any franchise within
this State. And it shall be the duty of the Attorney General to bring the action, Whenever he has reason to believe
that any such office or franchise has been usurped, intruded

into, or unlawfully held or exercised by any person, or when
he is directed to do so by the Governor.

§ 311. Name of person entitled to ojice may be set forth in the
complaint ; if fees have been received by the usmjoer he may be
arrested.

Whenever such action is brought, the Attorney General, in
addition to the statement of the cause of action, may also set
forth in the complaint the name of the person rightly entitled
to the office, with a statement of his right thereto; and in
such case, upon proof by affidavit that the defendant has received fees or emoluments belonging to the office, and by
means of his usurpation thereof, an order may be granted
by a Judge of the Supreme Court, or a District Judge, for
the arrest of such defendant, and holding him to bail; and
thereupon he may be arrested, and held to bail, in the same
manner, and with the same effect, and subject to the ‘same
rights and liabilities, as in other civil actions where the defendant is subject to arrest.

§ 312. Judgment may determine the riglzts of both incumbent
and claimant.

In every such case, judgment may be rendered upon the
right of the defendant, and also upon the right of the party,

so alleged to be entitled; or only upon the right of the defendant, as justice shall require.
Abb. Forms, 1808-1809.

1. In an action of quo wan-ante to determine the right to an office where the
relator claims the office as against the incumbent, the Court may not only determine the right of the defendant, but of the relator also ; and if it determine
in favor of the relator, may render judgment that the defendant forthwith deliver
up to the relator the office. People v. Banvard, 27 Cal. 470.

T 2.18C6%ntestant cannot take judgment by default. Keller v. Chapman, April

§ 313. When rendered in favor of applicant.

If the judgment be rendered upon the right of the person
so alleged to be entitled, and the same be in favor of such

person, he shall be entitled, after taking the oath of office,
and executing such oiiicial bond as may be required by law,
to take upon himself the execution of the office.

§ 314. Damages may be recovered by success;/‘ul applicant.

If judgment be rendered upon the right of the person so
alleged to be entitled, in favor of such person, he may recover,
by action, the damages which he shall have sustained, by reason of the usurpation of the oiiice by the defendant.

§ 315. When several persons claim the same ojice, their rights
may be determined by a single action.

When several persons claim to be entitled to the same ohice
or franchise, one action may be brought against all such persons, in order to try their respective rights to such oiiice or
franchise.

§ 316. If defendant found guilty, what judgment to be rendered

against him.

When a defendant, against whom such action has i been
brought, is adjudged guilty of usurping or intruding into, or
unlawfully holding any oiiice, franchise, or privilege, judgment
shall be rendered that such defendant be excluded from the
oilice, franchise, or privilege, and that he pay the costs of the
action. The Court may also, in its discretion, impose upon

the defendant a fine not exceeding $5,000; which fine, when '

collected, shall be paid into the treasury of the State.

[In regard to a person holding two or more olllces at the same time, see
People v. Pravines, Oct. T. 1867, where all the authorities are discussed and
many overruled.]

TITLE XXVIII.
Curran VI.— Of actions against steamers, vessels and boats.

Samoa 317. When vessels, etc., shall be liable. Their liabilltes shall
constitute liens.

318. Actions may be brought directly against such vessels, etc.
319. Complaint shall be verilied.

320. Summons may be served on the master, mate, etc.

321. Plaintili‘ may have such vessel, etc., attached.

322. The clerk shall issue the writ of attachment.

323. Such writ shall be directed to the sheriff. Sheriff may

release u on sumcient undertaking.
324. Sherin‘ shal execute such writ without delay.

325. The owner, master, etc., may appear and defend such
vessel.

326. Proceedings in actions under this chapter.

327. After Iatprpzaamuce attachment may, on motion, be disc g .

328. When not discharged, such vessel, etc., may be sold at
public auction. Application of proceeds.

329. Mariners and others may assert their claim for wages,

notwithstanding rior attachment; how enforced.
330 Proof of the claims 0 mariners and others.

331: Sheriff ‘:1 nott1'°ce of sale shall contain measurement, tonnage, e .

332. Appealls arty be taken from proceedings under this
c P I

§317. ‘Whm vessels, ~ctc.,‘shall be liable. Their
shall constitute liens.

All steamers, vessels, and boats, shall be liable :
lst. For services rendered on board at the request of, or on
contract with, their respective owners, masters, agents, or
consignees.
2d. For supplies furnished for their use, at the request of
their respective owners, masters, agents, or consignees.
3d. For materials furnished for their construction, repair,
or equipment.
4th. For their wharfage and anchorage within this State.
5th. For non-performance or mal-performance of any contract for the transportation of persons or property made by
their respective owners, masters, agents, or consignees.
. 6th. For injuries committed by them to persons or property.
The said several causes of action. shall constitute liens upon
all steamers, vessels, and boats, and have priority in their
order herein enumerated, and shall have preference over all
other demands ; provided, such liens shall only continue in

force for the period of one year from the time the cause of
action accrued.

The plaintifff, at the time of issuing the summons, or at any
time afterwards, may have the steamer, vessel, or boat,
against which the action is brought, with its tackle, apparel,
and furniture, attached as security for the satisfaction of any
judgment that may be recovered therein.

1. In an action against boats and vessels, under the statute, the service of
rocess in the manner prescribed by statute is equivalent to an actual seizure.
’ gs v. Scanncll, 7 Cal. 405.
2. In such actions it is not necessary that the vessel should be attached in
order to acquire a lien as against subsequent purchasers. Id.

§ 322. The Clerk shall issue the writ of attachment.

The Clerk of the Court shall issue a writ of attachment, on
the application of the plaintifff, upon receiving a written undertaking on behalf of the plaintifff, executed by two or more
snllicient sureties, to the effect, that if judgment be rendered
in favor of the steamer_ vessel, or boat, as the case may be,
he will pay all costs and damages that may be awarded
against him, and all damages which may be sustained by such
steamer, vessel, or boat from- the attachment, not exceeding
the sum specified in the undertaking, which shall in no case
be less than five hundred dollars when the attachment is issued against a steamer or vessel, or less than two hundred
dollars when issued against a boat. The undertaking shall be
accompanied by an affidavit of each of the sureties, that he
is a resident and freeholder or householder of the county, and
worth double the amount specified in the undertaking over
and above of his just debts and liabilities. The Clerk
shall file the undertaking and allidavits.

§ 323. Such writ shall be directed to the Sherzf. The Sherzf
may release upon sujieient undertaking.

The writ shall be directed ’.to the Sheriff of the county
within which the steamer, vessel, or boat lies, and direct him
to attach such steamer, vessel, or boat, with its tackle, apparel, and furniture, and keep the same in his custody until
discharged by due course of law; unless the owner, master,
agent or consignee thereof, give him security by the undertaking of at least two sullicient sureties, in an amount sunlcient to satisfy the demand in suit, which shall be specified
in the writ, besides costs; in which case, to take such undertaking.

§ 324. The Sherzf shall execute such writ without delay.

The sheriff to whom the writ is directed and delivered
shall execute the same without delay, and shall, unless the
undertaking mentioned in the last section be given, attach
and keep in his custody the steamer, vessel, or boat named
therein, with its tackle, apparel and furniture, until discharged
by due course of law; but the Sheriff shall not be authorized

by any such writ to interfere with the discharge of any mer.
chandise on board of such steamer, vessel, or boat, nor with

the removal of any trunks or other property of passengers, ,

or of the captain, mate, seaman, steward, cook, or other persons employed on board.

§ 325. The owner, master, etc., may appear and defend such
vessel.

The owner, master, agent, or consignee of the steamer, vessel, or boat, against which the action is brought, may appear
and answer, or plead to the action; and may except to the
sutliciency of the sureties on the undertaking filed on the
behalf of the plaintifff, and may require sureties to justify, as
in actions against individuals upon bail on arrest.

§ 326. Proceedings in factions under this chapter.

All proceedings in actions under the provisions of this
chapter shall be conducted in the same manner as in actions
against individuals, except as otherwise herein provided: and
in all proceedings subsequent to the complaint, the steamer,
vessel, or boat may be designated as defendant.

§327. After appearance, attachment may, [en motion, be discharged.

After the appearance to the action, of the owner, master,
agent, or consignee, the attachment may, on motion, be discharged, in the same manner, and on like terms and condi.

tions, as attachments in other cases, subject to the provisions
of section three hundred and twenty-nine.

1. The Court whose means or final process has made the am actual seizure
of the thing must have exclusive power over its disposal, and the distribution
of the fund arising therefrom; and the judgments of all other Courts, when
pgoperly authenticated and filed in the Court having custody of the fund, must

regarded as com lete adjudications of the subject matter of litigation, and
be entitled to distri ution accordingly. Averill v. Steamer Hartford, 2 Cal. 308.

§ 328. When not discharged, such vessel, etc., may be sold at
public auction; application of the proceeds.

If the attachment be not discharged, and a judgment be
recovered in the action in favor of the plaintifff, and an execution be issued thereon, the Sheriif shall sell at public auction, after publication of notice of such sale for ten days, the
steamer, vessel, or boat, with its tackle, apparel, and furniture,
or such interest therein as may be necessary, and shall apply
the proceeds of sale as follows :

lst. When the action is brought for demands other than
the wages of mariners, boatmen, and others employed in the
service of the steamer, vessel, or boat sold, to the payment
of the amount of such wages, as specified in the execution;

2d. To the payment of the judgment and costs, including
his fees; and,

3d. He shall pay any balance remaining to the owner,
master, agent, or consignee, who may have appeared in the
action; or if there be no appearance, then into Court, subject
to the claim of any party or parties legally entitled thereto.

§ 329. Mariners and others may assert their claim for wages
notwithstanding prior attachment ; how enforced.

Any mariner, boatman, or other person employed in the
service of the steamer, vessel, or boat attached, who may
wish to assert his claim for wages against the same, the
attachments being issued for other (demands) than such
wages, shall file"‘an affidavit of his claim setting forth the
amount and the particular service rendered, with the Clerk
of the Court; and thereafter no attachment shall be dis‘
charged upon filing an undertaking, unless the amount of
such claim, or the amount determined as provided in the next
section, be covered thereby in _addition to the other requirements ; and any execution issued against such steamer, vessel, or boat, upon judgment recovered thereafter, shall direct
the application of the proceeds of any sale: first, to the payment of the amount of such claims filed, or the amount determined, as provided in the next section which the Clerk
shall insert in the writ: and second, to the payment of the
judgment and costs, and Sheriffs fees; and shall direct the
payment of any balance to the owner, master, or consignee
who may have appeared in the action; but if no appearance
by them he made therein, it- shall direct a deposit of the
balance in Court.

§ 330. Proof of the claim of mariners and others.

If the’ claim of the mariner, boatman, or other person, filed
with the Clerk of the Court, as provided in the last section,
be not contested within five days after notice of the filing
thereof by the owner, master, agent, or consignee of the
steamer, vessel, or boat against which the claim is filed, it
shall be deemed admitted; but if contested, the Clerk shall
indorse upon the affidavit thereof a statement that it is contested, and the grounds of the contest; and shall immediately
thereafter order the matter to a single referee for his determination, or he may hear the proofs and determine the matter
himself. a The judgment of the Clerk, or referee, may be (reviewed) by the County Judge either in term or vacation
immediately after the same is given, and the judgment of the:
County Judge shall be final. On the review, the County
Judge may use the minutes of the proofs taken by the Clerk,
or referee, or may take the proofs anew.

1. Where the master of the vessel was in possession, and the record did not
disclose any other owner, the admissions of the master were admissible in

evidence with the same sheet as if the suit had been against the master him- _

self. Bailey v. New World, 2 Cal. 970.

§ 331. Sherzf’.9 notice of sale shall contain measurement, tonnage, etc.
The notice of sale published by the Sheriff shall contain a
statement of the measurement and tonnage of the steamer,

vessel, or boat, and a general description of her condition.

§332. Appeals may be taken from proceedings under this
chapter.

From orders and judgments under this chapter, an appeal
may be taken by the owner, master, agent, or consignee, on
the same terms and conditions as appeals in actions against

individuals.

T I T L E X X I X .
or APPEALS IN crvn. ACTIONS.

CHAPTER I.—Appeals in ‘ general.

SEOPION 333. Judgments and orders ma be reviewed.
334. An order made out of ourt, without notice, may be reviewed by the Judge who made it.
335. A party aggrieved may appeal in certain cases.
336. Within what time appeal may be taken.
337. Appeal shall be made by tiling and serving notice thereof.
338. The appellant shall within twenty days prepare statement,
subyect to amendment and settlement.
339. Omission to make statement or amendment according to
preceding section shall be a waiver wereol‘.
340. Tirpe fcgi preparing statements or amendments may be enarg .
341. Authentication of statement.
342. Statement shall be annexed to judgment mil or order
appealed from.
343. Appeals from an order made upon affidavit.
344. On appeal from a judgment, the Court may review intermediate orders.
345. Remedial powers of the appellate Court.
346. Appellate shall furnish requisite papers.

§ 333. ‘Judgments and orders may be reviewed. W

A judgment or order in a civil action, except when expressly made linal by this act, may be reviewed as prescribed
by this title, and not otherwise.

‘Amended 1854, 91.

§ 334. An order made out of Court without notice may be reviewed by the Judge who made it.

§ 336. ‘lwtlzin what time appeal may be taken. (a)

An appeal may be taken :

First—from a final judgment in an action or special proceeding commenced in the Court in which the same is rendered, within one year after the rendition of the judgment.

Second—From a judgment rendered on an appeal from an
inferior Court, within ninety days after the rendition of such
judgment.

Third-—From an order granting or refusing a new trial;
from an order granting or dissolving an injunction ; from an
order refusing to grant or dissolve an injunction ; from
an order dissolving or refusing to dissolve an attachment; from any special order made after final judgment,and from an interlocutory judgment in actions for partition
of real property, within sixty days after the order or interlocutory judgment is made and entered in the minutes of the

Court.

§ 338. ‘The appellant shall within twenty days prepare statement, subject to amendment and settlement.

When the party who has the right to appeal wishes a
statement of the case to be annexed to the record of the
judgment or order, he shall, Within twenty days after the entry of such judgment or order, prepare such statement, which
shall state specifically the particular errors or grounds upon
which he intends to rely on the appeal, and shall contain so
much of the evidence as may be necessary to explain the
particular errors or grounds specified, and no more, and shall
serve a copy thereof upon the adverse party. The respondent may, within five days thereafter, prepare amendments to
the statement, and serve a copy on the appellant. The statement and amendments which may be served shall be presented to the Judge who tried or heard the case, upon notice
of two days to the respondent, and a true statement shall
thereupon be settled by such Judge. If no amendments are
served, the statement may be presented to the Judge for
settlement without any notice to the respondent.

§ 339. ‘Omission to make statement or amendment according
to preceding section shall be a waiver thereof.

If the party shall omit to make a statement within the time
above limited, he shall be deemed to have waived his right
thereto; and when a statement is made, and the parties shall
omit within the several times above limited, the one party to
propose amendments, the other to notify an appearance before the Judge, they shall respectively be deemed, the former
to have agreed to the statement as prepared, and the latter
to have agreed to the amendments as proposed, but the Judge
who heard the cause shall, notwithstanding such omission or

implied agreement, have power to correct any misstatement

of facts or of his rulings which such statement may contain.

‘Amended Statutes 1855, 303; 1863, 644.

1. If a statement is served and med within the time required by the three
hundred and thirty-eighth section of the Practice Act, unless the respondent,
within five days thereafter, prepares and serves amendments, he is deemed to
have agreed to the statement; and no settlement thereof or certificate oi 
Judge 18 necessary. wnner v. Morris, 23 Cal. 447. _ f.

2. If the statement on appgal from a ‘jpdgment is not served on the responl,
dent‘s attorney until more 11 twenty ys after the rendition of judgment,
and gt; extension of time is pllitained, a statemept ishwaived, and tlfile a te urtcannot review any eged errors exc sue as a in e u ment roll. Kavanagh v. Mans, 28 Cal. 261. GP ppm: J a8

3. If no amendments to a statement on appeal are served on the appellant,
it may be settled by the Judge without notice to the respondent, but It should
be authenticated either by the certificate of the Judge or by the stipulation ‘of

the parties. Id.
4. If a statement on appeal is not filed and served in time, the opposite party

does not waive the default by not ramming to a pellants’ attorney the copy of
the statement served on him. Bryan v. Maume al., 28 Cal. 238.

5. If the party who appeals from a judgment does not file and serve a statement on appeal within twenty days from the date of the judgment, his right to
make a statement is waived. Harper v. Minor, 27 Cal. 108. '

§ 340. Time for preparing statement or amendment may be
enlarged; °

The several periods of time above limited may be enlarged,
upon good cause shown by the Judge before whom the cause
was tried.

§ 344. On appeal from a judgment the Chart may review
intermediate order.

Upon an appeal from a judgment, the Court may review
any intermediate order involving the merits, and necessarily

affecting the judgment.

1. Section three hundred and forty-four of the Practice Act, relating to a

review of intermediate orders upon an appeal from a nnal judgment, relates
to such intermediate orders only as are in themselves non-appealable. Hihn

v. Peak, 30 Cal. 280.
2. Interlocutory orders made in the progress of a trial will not be reviewed

in the appellate Court, unless they are embodied in a statement or bill of

exceptions. Abbott v. Douglass, 28 Cal. 295.
3. On an appeal from a iinal judgment, the Court cannot review an order

refusing to dissolve an attachment. Allender v. Fritts at al., 24 Cal. 447.

4. The District Court cannot review an order uting a nonsuit upon a
motion to set aside the nonsuit. Levy v. Getteson, 7 Cal. 686.

6. An order denying a motion to re-tax costs should be reviewed by an

appeal from the judgment, and annexing a statement to the judgment roll. Id.

§ 345. Remedial powers of the Appellate Court.

Upon an appeal from a judgment or order, the Appellate
Court may reverse, aihrm or modify the judgment or order
appealed from, in the respect mentioned in the notice of appeal, and as to any or all of the parties; and may set aside or
confirm, or modify any or all of the proceedings subsequent to
or dependent upon such judgment or order, and may, if necessary or proper, order a new trial. When the judgment
or order is reversed or modified, the Appellate Court may
make complete restitution of all property and rights lost by
the erroneous judgment or order ; and when it appears to the
Appellate Court that the appeal was made for delay, it may
add to the costs such damages as may be just.

§ 346. ‘Appellant shall furnish requisite papers.

On an appeal from a final judgment, the appellant shall
furnish the Court with a transcript of the notice of appeal,
the pleadings, or amended pleadings, as the case may be,
which form the issues tried in the case, the judgment, and

- such other parts of the judgment roll, and no more, as are

necessary to present or explain the points relied on, and the
statement, if there be one, certified by the attorneys of the
parties to the appeal, or by the Clerk, to be correct. On appeal from a judgment rendered on an appeal, or from an
order, the appellant shall furnish the Court with a copy of the
notice of appeal, the judgment or order appealed from, and

a copy of the papers used on the hearing in the Court below,
such copies to be certihed in like manner to be correct. If
any written opinion be placed on file in rendering the judgment or making the order in the Court below, a copy shall
be furnished. If the appellant fail to furnish the requisite

papers, the appeal may be dismissed.

TITLE XXX.

Cnaprsn II.-Appeals to the Supreme Court from the District

Slcnox 347. When an appeal
348.
349.
350.
351.
352.
368.

354.

355

356: Undertaking
357.
358.

Courts.

may be taken.
Ayppellant shall file undertaking within nve days.

ndertaking on ap from a money judgment.
Appeal from a j ent for delivery of document: or
personal propert

y.
Appeal from a judgment directing the execution of a conveyance, etc.

Undertaking on appeal from a judgment concerning real

PropertySta f ' . Th securl be
l1§ni)w£ umu&r, etc. ty on appeal may

Undertaking may be in one instrument or several.

J ustiflcation of sureties an undertaking on appeal.

in cases not specined above.

Appeals may be brought to a hearing on notice.

Onju entonappeal,aremittitur shall beoertinedto

the lerk of the Court below.

§ 847. ‘When an appeal may be (alum.

An appeal may be taken to the Supreme Court from the

District Courts in the following cases:
F£rst—From a final judgment entered in an action or

special proceeding commenced in those Courts, or brought
into those Courts from other Courts.

Secomt'—From an order granting or refusing a new trial;
from an order granting or dissolving an injunction; from an
order refusing to grant or dissolve an injunction; from an
order dissolving or refusing to dissolve an attachment; from
any special order made after final judgment, and from such
interlocutory judgment in actions for partition as determines
the rights and interests of the respective parties, and directs

partition to be made.

§ 349. ‘ Undertaking on appeal from a money judgment.

If the appeal be from a judgment or order directing the
payment of money, it shall not stay the execution of the
judgment or order, unless a written undertaking be executed
on the part of the appellant, by two or more sureties, stating
their places of residence and occupation, to the effect that
they are bound in double the amount named in the judgment
or order; that if the judgment or order appealed from, or
any part thereof, be aihrmed, the appellant shall pay the
amount directed to be paid by the judgment or order, or the
part of such amount as to which the judgment or order shall
be affirmed, if affirmed only in part, and all damages and costs
which shall be awarded against the appellant upon the appeal.
When the judgment or order appealed from is _made payable
in a specified kind of money or currency, the undertaking
required by this section shall be drawn and made payable

in the same kind of money or currency specified in such
judgment.

§ 350. Appeal from a judgment for delivery of documents.

If the judgment or order appealed from, direct the assignment or delivery of documents, or personal property, the execution of the judgment or order shall not be stayed by
appeal, unless the things required to be assigned or delivered,
be placed in the custody of such officer or receiver as the
Court may appoint; or unless an undertaking be entered,
into, on the part of the appellant, with at least two sureties,
and in such amount as the Court, or the Judge thereof, or
County Judge, may direct, to the effect that the appellant
will obey the order of the Appellate Court upon the appeal.

N. Y. Code, teas. Seenotes (a) (b), am g 76.

§ 351. Appeal from a judgment directing the execzgtion‘ of a
conveyance, etc.

If the judgment or order appealed from direct the execution of a conveyance or other instrument, the execution of
the judgment or order shall not he stayed by the appeal
until the instrument is executed and deposited with the Clerk

with whom the judgment or order is entered, to abide the

judgment of the Appellate Court.
See notes (a) (b), § 76, ante.

§ 352. Undertaking on appeal concerm'ng real property.

If the judgment or order appealed from direct the sale, or
delivery of possession of real property, the execution of the
same shall not he stayed, unless a written undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant, with two or more sureties, to the effect that during the possession of such property
by the appellant, he will not commit, or suffer to be committed, any waste thereon, and that if the judgment be affirmed,
he will pay the value of the use and occupation of the property from the time of the appeal until the delivery of possession thereof, pursuant to the judgment or order, not
exceeding a sum to be fixed by the Judge of the Court by
which the judgment was rendered or order made, and which
shall be specified in the undertaking. When the judgment
is for the sale of mortgaged premises, and the payment of a
deficiency arising upon the sale, the undertaking shall also
provide for the payment of such deficiency.

§ 353. ‘Stay of proceedings. The security on appeal may be
limited in the case of an execution, etc.

Whenever an appeal is perfected, as provided in the preceding sections in this chapter, it shall stay all further proceedings in the Court below upon the judgment or order
appealed from, or upon the matters embraced therein; and
on appeal, and filing an appeal bond on appeal from an order
disharging an attachment, said attachment shall not be dis‘
solved, but shall remain in full force until the cause be dis’
posed of on appeal ; but the Court below may proceed upon
any other matter embraced in the action, and not affected by
the order appealed from. And the Court below may, in its
discretion, dispense with or limit the security required by
said sections, when the appellant is an executor, administrator, trustee, or other person acting in another’s right; pro.
vided, that an appeal shall not continue in force an attachment,
unless an undertaking be executed and filed, on the part of
the appellant, by at least two sureties, in double the amount

of the debt claimed by him, that the appellant will pay all
costs and damages which the respondent may sustain by
reason of the attachment, in case the order of the Court below be sustained; and unless, also, notice of the appeal be
given within five days after service of the notice of the entry

of the order appealed _from, and such appeal be perfected,
and the undertaking in this section mentioned be filed within

five days thereafter.

‘Amended 1865-6, 707. N. Y. Code, § 339. Bancroft’s Forms, 48d.
1. Where a suit is pending in the Sn reme Court on appeal, the Judgment

below is suspended for all purposes, an it is not evidence upon the riiiitestions
at issue, even between the parties. Woodbury v_. Bowman, 13 Cal. 6 .

2. Proceedings stayed upon a ju ent, pending an appeal, though no undertaking was ‘van. Ross 7. Aust' , 2 Cal. 183. _ O

3. An ajgie from an order of reference stays the proceedings. Svmih v.

al. 9

Poaock, 2 2.
4. Where the sureties to an undertaking, on appeal to the Sn reme Court,

justify in a sum less than double the amount specilied in the un ertaking, but
more than double the amount of three hundred dollars, such undertaking is

snmcient under section three hundred and forty-eight of the Code, though
insiimcient to stay the issuance of the execution. Molcelumne Hill 00. v.

Woo<£1zu'y, 10 Cal. 185. _ _
5. Where the examination of the sureties does not disclose sunicient property to make the undertaking operate as a stay, but does disclose suiiicient to
render the appeal effectual, respondent's remedy is by motion in the Court
below for leave to proceed on the judgment, notwithstanding the undertalnng,
and not by motion in the Supreme Court to dismiss the appeal. Dobbins v.

Dollar-hide, 15 Cal. 37 4.

6. A stay of proceedings, from its nature under an appeal, only operates
upon orders or judgments commanding some act to be done, and does _not
reach a case of injunction. Meroed Mining Co. v. Fremont, 7 Cal. 132; Hicks

V. Michael, 15 Cal. 109.

§ 354. Undertaking may be in one instrument or several.

The undertaking prescribed by sections three hundred and
forty-eight, three hundred and forty-nine, three hundred and
fifty, and three hundred and fifty-two, may be in one instrument, or several, at the option of the appellant.
N. Y. Code, $340. '

§ 355. 1Justg'/ication of sureties an undertaking on appeal.

An undertaking on appeal shall be of no eifect, unless it be
accompanied by the aiiidavit of the sureties that they are
each worth the amount specified therein, over and above all
their just debts and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt
from execution, except where the judgment exceeds three
thousand dollars, and the undertaking is executed by more
than two sureties; they may state in their affidavits that they
are" severally worth amounts less than that expressed in the

undertaking, if the whole amount be equivalent to that of
two sufficient sureties. The adverse party, however, may
except to the sufiiciency of the sureties to the undertaking or
undertakings mentioned in sections three hundred and fortynine, three hundred and fifty, three hundred and fifty-one,
and three hundred and fifty-two, at any time within thirty
days after the filing of such undertaking; and unless they or
other sureties, Within twenty days after the appellant or appellants shall have been served with notice of such exception.
justify before a Judge of the Court below, a County Judge,
or County Clerk, upon five days’ notice to the appellant, exe‘
cntion of the judgment or decree appealed from shall be no
longer stayed; and in all cases where an undertaking is re‘
quired on appeal by the provisions of this Act a deposit in
the Court below of the amount of the judgment appealed
from, and three hundred dollars in addition, shall be equivalent to filing the undertaking, and in all cases the undertaking
or deposit may be Waived by the written consent of the
respondent.

' § 357. ‘Appeals may be brought to a hearing on notice.

Appeals in the Supreme Court may be brought to a hearing by either party, upon a notice of three days to the opposite party. Before the argument, each party shall furnish to
the other, and each of the Justices, a copy of his points and
authorities; or either party may file one copy thereof with
the Clerk, who shall cause the requisite copies to be made.

1Amended 1854, 92.

1. Where notice of argument has been given by the appellant, the respondent may move for an affirmance of the judgment ea: parte, although he has
given no notice of argument. BlNNE'1'1‘, J. dissenting. Constant v. Ward, 1

al. 333.
2. The b a decision of the Supreme Court will not be set aside for want

of a for statutory notice of argument, if the adverse party had actual notice, yet a ju ent of amrmance for failure of the appellant to appear will
be set aside, ' he had not actual notice, etc. Lightstone v. Laurencel, 2 Cal.

106.

3. Where counsel, in a cause pending in the Supreme Court, stipulate to
submit the case to the Court on two grounds only. it is a clear waiver of all
other assignments of error, and they will not be allowed to behind such

stipulation, and insist u on points other than those mention in the stipulataon. Cahoon at at. v. ‘levy, 10 Cal. 216.

§ 358. On judgment on appeal, remittitur shall be certified to
the Clerk of the Court below.

When judgment is rendered upon the appeal, it shall be
certified by the Clerk of the Supreme Court to the Clerk
with whom the judgment roll is filed, or the order appealed
from is entered. In cases of appeal from the judgment, the
Clerk with whom the roll is filed shall attach the certificate
to the judgment roll, and enter a minute of the judgment of

the Supreme Court on the docket against the original entry.
In cases of appeal from an order, the Clerk shall enter at

length in the records of the Court the certificate received,
and minute against the entry of the order appealed from a

reference to the certificate, with a brief statement that such
order has been affirmed, reversed, or modified, as the case
may be, by the Supreme Court, on appeal.

1. The Court below cannot refuse to give effect to the judgment of this
Court; and a‘ judgment entered by the clerk, in such case, is just as bin '
as if entered in the Supreme Court itself. lllclllillan v. Richards, 12 Cal. 46 .

2. Where a case is appealed from the District Court to the Supreme Court,
and the Supreme Court reverses the judgment of the District Court, and

directs the entry of a final judgment, such judgment can be entered by the
clerk of the District Court in e vacation. Id.

M3. The act of the clerk in entering the judgment is a mere ministerial act.

.4. The remittitur from this Court is by the direction of the three hundred and
nt%y~eighth section of the Practice Act, to be attached by the clerk of the viatrict Court to the judgment roll, and a minute of the judgment entered on the

docket against the original entry; the judgment of this Court then stands as
the judgment of the District Court. If it award a new trial, the clerk will place

the cause on the calendar; if costs, he will, on the application of the party,

iszpe execution for the same. Mayor, etc., of Marysville v. Buchanan, 3
C . 212.

5. The District Court has no authority to prevent the immediate execution of
the judgment of this Court so remitted. Id.

6. The judgment of this Court upon appeal, and the costs consequent thereon,
is dual. Id. ‘

7. The clerk of this Court, in entering up the judgment, adds the words “ with
costs,” and annexes to the remittilur a copy of the bill of costs filed. These

words are a sunicient awardin of costs for the clerk of the Court below to
issue execution for the same. (1.

8. This Court loses all control and jurisdiction over a case after the remittitur
has been filed in the Court below. Blane v. Bowman, 22 Cal. 23.

9. A motion, thereforee, to vacate a judgment, on the ground that it was not

rendered by the pro er members of the Court, cannot be entertained after the
remittitur has been ed below. Id.

10. District court has no power to modify judgment of supreme
gourt.—Argen.ti v. City of San Francisco, 30 Cal. 58; Meyer v. Kohn, Oct.
. 1867.

TITLE XXXI.

CHAPTER III.—Appeals to the Supreme Court from the County
Court.

Section 359. Appeal may be taken from county Court, in certain cases.
360. Security on appeal shall be the same as provided in preceding chapter.
361. Appeals ma be brought to a hearing on notice.
362. Appellant s all furnish papers on appeal.

§ 359. ‘Appeal may be taken from County Court, in certain
cases.

An appeal may be taken to the Supreme Court from a final
judgment of the County Court.

First£y—In an action of forcible entry and detainer ; in an
action to prevent or abate a nuisance; in a proceeding in
insolvency ; in an action wherein the legality of any tax, im
post, assessment, toll, or municipal fine is in question ; and in
any special case within the appellate jurisdiction of the Snpreme Court over which the Legislature may require said
County Court to exercise jurisdiction.

Secondlg/—From an order granting or refusing a new trial ;
from an order granting or dissolving, or an order refusing to
grant or dissolve an injunction; and from any special order
made after final judgment in the cases in this section before

enumerated.

‘Amended 1853, 277; 1854, 93; 1865-6, 846.

1. N o appeal was allowed by law from a County Court to the Supreme Court,
prior to the first day of July, 1854. Middleton v. Gould et aL, 5 Cal. 190.

2. An objection that a County Court has no jurisdiction in cases on appeal,
where no appeal bond is given as required by the statute, should be made in
tbhe Court below. It is too late to raise the question here. Howard v. Harman,

Cal. 7 8. 3. Where such an objection is made within the proper time, it is the duty of
the presiding Judge to hear the excuse of the party failing to produce it, and
if sufficient, to allow him to file a bond. Id.

4. Where a party appealed from a J ustice‘s Court to a County Court, and the
Justice neglected to send up with the record the notice of the appeal : Held, that
it was error to refuse to allow appellant the opportunity of moving to compel
the Justice to send it up, by peremptorily dismissing the appeal. Sherman v.
Rolberg, 9 Cal. 17.

5. The Supreme Court has jurisdiction to hear and determine appeals from
the judgment of the County Court, on questions of fraud made on the petition
(éilan insolvent for a discharge from his debts. Fislc v. His Creditors, 12

. 281.

6. A refusal by the County Court, on appeal from a Justice, to permit an
amendment of the complaint, is matter of discretion, and there being no affidavit of materiality, nor any showing of the importance of the amendment,
this Court will not interfere. Canjield v. Bates, 13 Cal. 606.

7. Where, in an action of forcible entry and detainer, the 'udgment is for
the possession of the premises, and ninety-four dollars, treb e damages, besides costs—the title not being involved—query, whether the Supreme Court
has jurisdiction of an appeal from the County Court. Paul v. Silver, 16 Cal. 73.

8. No appeal will lie from a judgment for two hundred dollars, costs and
per centage. The amount must exceed two hundred dollars—that is, the
amount in dispute. Costs and per cenlage are only incidental to the action.
Zabrislcic v. Terry; Votan v. Reese et al., 20 Cal. 89; Dumphy v. Guindon, 13 Id.
28. [See Meeker v. Harris, 23 Id. 285.]

9. The order of a County Court dismissing an appeal from a Justice's Court
in an action of forcible entry and detainer, is a final ju ent from which an
appeal may be taken to the Supreme Court. Zoller v. cDonald, 23 Cal. 136.

10. The Constitution gives the Supreme Court jurisdiction on appeal from

judgments rendered in contested election cases in the County Courts. Knowles

v. Yeates, 31 Cal. 82.
11. The Supreme Court has appellate jurisdiction from a judgment of the
County Court rendered in an election contest. Day v. Jones, 31 Cal. 261.

§ 360. ‘Security on appeal shall be the same as in preceding
chapter.

Security shall "be given upon such appeals in the same manner, to the same extent, and with the same effect, as in appeals to the Supreme Court from the District Court from
judgments or orders of a similar character, and like justification on the part of the sureties may be required.
not‘eA8mended 1854, 93; 1865-6, 849. See oak, °§ 348 -to 356, inclusive, and

§ 361. ‘Appeal may be brought to a hearing‘ on notice.

Appeals from the County Courts shall be brought to‘ a
hearing in the same manner and upon like notice as appeals

from the District Court.
‘Amended 1854, 93. See ante, § 357 and notes.

1:‘; 362. ‘Appellant shall furnish papers on appeal.
The appellant shall furnish the papers for the Supreme
Court in the same manner as upon appeals from the District

Court.
‘Amended 1853, 277; 1854, 93.

TI T«LE XXXII.

CHAPTER IV .*--Appeals to the  Cburts from the Probate ‘Charts.
Blanca 363. Appeals may be taken from Probate Court.

364. Time within which appeal shall be taken.
885. Appeals shall be hoard-as soon aspossible.

§ 368. Appeals may be taken from Probate Court.

An appeal may be taken from a Probate Court to the District Court of the district inwhich the Probate Court is held,

in.the following cases :
1st. From an order or decree "admitting a will to probate,
or refusing the same;

2d. From an order setting apart property or making an allowance for the widow or children ;

3d. From an order granting letters testamentary or of administration, or appointing a guardian of an infant, or of an
insane person, or of a person incompetent to manage his
property, or refusing to grant such letters, or to make such
appointment, or making such letters or appointment ;

4th. From an order directing the sale or conveyance of
real property ;

5th. From an order or decree by which a debt, claim,
legacy, or distributive share is allowed, or payment thereof
directed; or by which such allowance or direction is refused ;
6th. From an order made on the settlement of an executor, administrator or guardian.
See Belknap’.-:1 Probate Law, pp. 21-22; also pp. 159-161.

§ 364. Time within which appeal shall be taken.

The appeal shall be taken within thirty days after the
order or decree appealed from is entered with the Clerk.

365. Appeals shall be heard as soon as possible.

[1854.] Appeals from the Probate Court shall be brought
to a hearing at the earliest period practicable. For afailure
to prosecute an appeal, or unnecessary delay in bringing it
to a hearing, the District Court may order the appeal to be

dismissed.

‘Amended 1354, 93.
1. The District Court has only original jurisdiction‘ it has no appellate
powers. Cauljield v. Islam. 3 Cal. 389; lander v. Coo, '5 Cal. 230.

TITLE XXXIIII.

Cnsivrna V.—Appeals to the County &urts from Justices’ and
Recorders’ Courts.

Batman 366. Appeals maybe taken on questions of law or on questions
of law and fact.
367. Miscellaneous provisions on trials in County Courts.

§ 366. ‘Appeals may be taken on questions of km or on questions of law and fact.

Judgments, in all civil cases rendered by Justices’, Recorders’, and Mayors’ Courts, may be [reviewed] by the County
Court, when the appeal is taken on questions of law, alone,
it shall be heard on a statement of the case prepared as prescribed in Title XVI of this act. When the appeal is taken
on questions of fact, or on questions of both law and fact,
the action shall be tried anew in the County Court, and
either party may, on such trial, demand a jury.

§ 367. ‘Miscellaneous provisions on trials in County Courts.

Upon an appeal heard upon a statement of the case the
County Court may} review all orders alfecting the judgment
appealed from, and may set aside {or confirm, or modify any
or all of the proceedings subsequent ;to, and dependent upon,
said judgment, and may, if necessary or proper, order a new

‘trial. When the action is tried‘ anew, on appeal, the trial

shall be conducted, inall respects, as trials in the District
Court. The provisions of this act as to changing the place
of trial, and all the provisions as to trials in the District
Court, shallibe applicable to trials, on appeal, in the County
Court. For a failure to prosecute an appeal, ofunnecessary
delay in bringing it to a hearing, the ‘County Court, after
notice, may order the appeal to be dismissed. Judgments
rendered in the County Court on appeal shall have the
same force and effect, and be enforced in the same man.

nor as judgments in actions commenced in the District
Court.

TITLE XXXIV.

IIISCELLANEOUS PROCEEDINGS.
CHAPTER I.—B‘oceedings against joint debtors.*

Blanca! 368. Parties not summoned in action on joint contract may
be summoned after jn ent.

369. 8ummons,inthatcase,w ttooontainandhowserved.
370. Amdavit to accom y summons.
371. Answer, when til and what it may contain.
372. What will constitute the pleadings in the case.
373. Issues how tried, and verdict what to be.

§ 368. Parties not summoned in action on joint contract, may
be summoned after judgment.

When a judgment is recovered against one or more of sev.
eral persons, jointly indebted upon an obligation, by proceeding, as provided in section thirty-two, those who were not
originally served with the summons, and did not appear to
the action, may be summoned to show cause why they should
not be bound by the judgment, in the same manner'as though
they had been originally served with the summons.

866 M 32, 145. N. Y. Code, § 375.

§ 369. Summons, in that case, what to contazn and how served.The summons, as provided in the last section, shall describe
the judgment, and require the person summoned to show
cause why he should not be bound by it, and shall be served

in the same manner and returnable within the same time as
the original summons. It shall not be necessary to file a new

complaint.
Abb. Forms, 1829-1830.

§ 370. Ajidavit to accompany summons.

The summons shall be accompanied by an affidavit of the
plaintifff, his agent, representative, or attorney, that the judgment; or some part thereof remains unsatisfied and shall
specify the amount due thereon.

Abb. Forms, 1829-1830.

§ 371. Answer, when filed and what it may contain.

Upon such summons the defendant may answer within the
time specified therein, denying the judgment, or setting up
any defense which may have arisen subsequently; or he may
deny his liability on the obligation upon which the judgment
was recovered, except a discharge from such liability by the
Statute of Limitations.

Abb. Forms, 1832.

§ 372. What will constitute the pleadings in the case.

Ifthe defendant in his answer deny the judgment, or set
up any defense, which may have arisen subsequently, the
summons, with the affidavit annexed, and the answer, shall
constitute the written allegations in the case ; if he deny his
liability on the obligation upon which the judgment was recovered, a copy of the original complaint and judgment, the
summons, with the aiiidavit annexed, and the answer, shall
constitute written allegations. '

§ 373. Issues how tried, and verdict what to be.

The issues formed may be tried as in other cases ; but when
the defendant denies, in his answer, any liability on the obligation upon which the judgment was rendered, if a verdict
be found against him, it shall be for the amount remaining

unsatisfied on such original judgment, with interest thereon.
Abb. Forms, 1833-1834.

T I T L E X X X V .
CHAPTER II.— Confession qfjudgmcnt without action.

Szcrnox 874. Judgment may be confessed for debt due, or contingent
liability.
376. Statement in writing, and form thereof.
876. Filing statement, and entering judgment.

§ 374. Judgment may be confessed for debt due, or contingent
liability.

A judgment by confession may be entered without action,

either for money due, or to become due, or to. secure any person against contingent liability on behalf of the defendant, or

both, in the manner prescribed by thischapter.
N. Y. Code, § 382.

1. A gudgment may he entered by confession for the amount specified in the
award, In the same wtxnthat it may for the sum mentioned in a bond. note or

Ether instrument, but I: is a judgment by confeaion. Gunter v. Sanchez, 1
I 480

§ 375. Statement in writing, and form thereof.

A. statement in Writing shall be made, signed by the defendant, and verified by his oath to the following effect:

lst. It shall authorize the entry of judgment for a specilied
sum ;

2d. If it be for -money due, or to become due, it shall state
concisely the facts out of which it arose, and shall show that
the sum confessed therefore is justly due, or to become due ;

3d. If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintifff against
a contingent liability, it shall state concisely the facts constituting the liability, and shall show that the sum confessed
therefore does not exceed the same.

T I T L E X X X V I.
Cmprss ]II.—-Submitting a controversy without action.

Bzcnox 377. Controversy, how submitted without action.

378. Judgment on, as in other cases, but without costs prior
to notice of trial.

379. Judgment may be enforced or appealed from as in an
action.

§ 377. Controversy, how submitted without action.

Parties to a question in difference, which might be the

subject of a civil action, may, without action, agree upon a
case containing the facts upon which the controversy depends, and present a submission of the same to any Court
which should have jurisdiction, if an action had been brought.
But it must appear, by aiiidavit, that the controversy is real,
and the proceedings in good faith, to determine the rights of
the parties. The Court shall thereupon hear and determine
the case, and render judgment thereon, as if an action were
depending.

N. Y. Code, § 372.

1. Where the parties to a controversy make an agreed case, under the three
hundred and seventy-seventh section of the Practice Act, which is submitted
for decision to District Court, the consideration of the Court is restricted to
the facts submitted in the case. Crandall v. Amador Count . 20 Cal 72.

2. Where the plaintifff claimed that defendant was inde ted to him, and,

under the section above referred to, a case was made and submitted stating the
facts upon between the parties. upon which the District Court decided that
plain ' s demand was not established without proof or other additional facts:
Held. that it was error for the Court instead of rendering judgment for the
defendant to make an order based upon the supposition that plaintiff establish
such other facts. Id.

3. Where an appeal is taken to the Supreme Court from a decision of a
Justice's Court, upon a case submitted on an agreed statement, without action
under the three hundred and seventy-seventh section of the Practice Act, the
transcript on appeal must contain a copy of the atlldavit required by the same

section showing the reality of the controversy and good faith of the proceedMellois v. Chaim, 20 Cal. 679.

4.. Where instead of this affidavit, the record only showed an allegation in
the agreed ment on appeal that the cause was heard in the Court below on

an agreed statement of facts, and the atlldavit of the defendant that the controversy was real, the appeal was dismissed. Id.

§ 378. Judgmnt on, as in other cases, but without costs, prior
to notice of trial.

Judgment shall be entered in the judgment book, as in
other cases, but without costs, for any proceeding prior to the

trial. The case, the submission, and a copy of the judgment
shall constitute the judgment roll.
N. Y. Code, § 373.

§ 379. Judgment may be enforced or appealed from, as in an
action.
The judgment may be enforced in the same manner as if

it had been rendered in an action, and shall be in the same
manner subject to appeal.

TITLE XXX VII.

CHAPTER IV.— Of Arbitrations.

Sncnox 380. Whtp may submit controversy to arbitration; and excepone.
381. Submission to arbitration shall be in writing. 4
382. Submission may be entered as an order of Court. Revocation.
383. Powers of arbitrators.
384. Majority of arbitrators may determine any question; they
_ shall be sworn.
385. Award to be in writi ; when judgment to be entered.
386. Award may be vaca in certain cases.
387. Court may, on motion, modify or correct the award.
388. Decision on the motion subject to appeal, but not the
judgment entered before motion.
389. If submission be revoked and an action be brought. what
to be recovered.

§ 380. Who may submit controversy to arbitration; and
exceptions.

Persons capable"of contracting may submit to arbitration
any controversy which might be the subject of a civil action
between them, except 8. question of title to real property in
fee or for life. This qualification shall not include questions

relating merely to the partition or boundaries of real property.

§ -381. Submission to arbitration to be in  p

The submission to arbitration shall be in writing, and
may be to one or more persons.

See 529.

1. Ti: constitute a submission to arbitration under the statute, so as to give
the awardthe eifect of a judgment, the statute must-be pursued in the manner in which the submission is Med with the clerk, and the motion. made for

 nt12n ‘Heslep ‘V. City of San Francisco, 4 Cal. 1; Oursley v.
§382. Submission may be entered as ma order of Court.
Revocation.
It may be stipulated in the submission, that it be entered
as an order of the County Court, or of the ‘District Court, for
which purpose it shall be Eled with the Clerkof the county

where the parties, or one of them, reside. The Clerk shall,
thereupon, enter in his register of actions a note of the sub~mission, with: the names of the parties, the names of the _
arbitrators, the date of the submission, when £led,~and the

time limited «by the -submission, if «any, within which the

award shall be made. When so entered, the submission shall
not be revoked without the consent of both parties. The
arbitrators may be compelled by the Court to make an award,
and the award may be enforced by the Court in the same
manner as a judgment. If the submission be not made an
order of the Court, it may be revoked at any time before the
award is made.

1. A stipulation in the submission that neither party should a , and 3
power of attorne to confess judgment pursuant to the award, not bar an
appeal from a ju gment on the award; es ecially under our system, where
law and equity are blended together. M row v. Norris, 2 Cal. 74.

2. The report of a referee, and the award of an arbitrator, are in all essentials the same. Grayson v. Guild, 4 Cal. 122.

3. Where the parties entered into a submission to arbitration, in which it
was stipulated that the award be entered as the judgment of the County Court:
Held, it was void in toto. that Court having no 'urisdlction over the subject matter of the award. Williams v. Walton, 9 C . 142.

4. Where a submission to arbitration is made an order of Court, under the
Practice Act, the clerk may enter judgment on the award, in due time, without any further order of the Court. Oarsley v. Lindsay, 14 Cal. 390.

6. An agreementin writing between two parties, to submit matters in dimmence between them to an arbitrator, with t e power to award and adjudge all
matters in difference between them, and to make an award in writing, and
that his award when made may be entered as a judgment of any Court of reoord having jurisdiction, does not give any Court jurisdiction of the parties
litigant, or of the subject matter of the controversy, unless the agreement
further sti ulate that the submission ma be entered as an order of Court,
and the su mission and stipulation are ed with the clerk, and the clerk enter in his register of actions a note of the submission, with the names of the
parties, the name of the arbitrator, etc., as required by the three hundred
glad eighty-second section of the Practice Act. Ryan v. Daugherty, 30 Cal.

8.

§ 383. Powers of arbitrators.

Arbitrators shall have power to appoint a time and place
for hearing, to adjourn from time to time, to administer
oaths to witnesses, to hear_the allegations and evidence of
the parties, and to make an award thereon.

§ 384. Jffajority of arbitrators may determine any question;
they shall be sworn.

All the arbitrators shall “meet and act together during the
investigation; but when met, a majority may determine any
question. Before acting, they shall be sworn before an officer
authorized to administer oaths, faithfully and fairly to hear
and examine the allegations and evidence of the parties, in
relation to the matters in controversy, and to make a just
award according to their understanding.

1. Arbitrators have no common law powers when appointed in the mode
provided bystatute. Williams v. Walton, 9 Cal. 145.

§ 385. Award to be in writing; when judgment to be entered.

The award shall be in writing, signed by the arbitrators,
or a majority of them, and delivered to the parties. When
the submission is made an order of the Court, the award shall
be filed with the Clerk, and a note thereof made in his register. After the expiration of five days from the filing of the
award, upon the application of a party, and on filing an affidavit, showing that notice of filing the award has been served
on the adverse party or his attorney, at least four days prior
to such application, and that no order staying the entry of
judgment has been served, the award shall be entered by the
Clerk in the judgment book, and shall thereupon have the
effect of a judgment.

1st. That there was a miscalculation in figures, upon
which it was made, or that there is a mistake in the description of some person or property therein;
2d. When a part of the award is upon matters not submitted, which part can be separated from other parts,
and does not affect the decision on the matters submitted ;

3d. When the award, though imperfect in form, could
have been amended if it had been a verdict, or the imperfection disregarded.

1. That the Court will not disturb the award of an arbitrator, or the report
of a referee, unless the error complained of, whether of law or fact, appears
on the face of the award or re rt. Tyson v. Wells, 2 Cal. 122, overruled in
Oappe v. Brizzolara, 19 Cal. 60 .

2. Where the object of the submission is to make an end of litigation. and
the award is uncertain and incomplete u on its face, it defeats the object of
the submission, and must be set aside. ierson v. Norman, 2 Cal. 699.

§ 388. Decision on the motion subject to appeal; but not the
judgment entered before motion.

The decision upon the motion shall be subject to appear
in the same manner as an order which is subject to appeal in a ClVll action; but the judgment entered before a
motion is made shall not be subject to appeal.

1. A sti ulation that neither party will appeal is not binding. Muldrow Y‘
Norris, 2 al. 74.

§ 389. If submission be revoked and an action brought, what
to be recovered.

If a submission to arbitration be revoked, and an action
be brought therefore, the amount to be recovered shall only
be the costs and damages sustained in preparing for and
attending the arbitration.

TITLE XXXVIII.

CHAPTER V.—0j'cr of the defendant to compromise the whole or
a part of an action.

§ 390. Proceedings on ojer of defendant to compromise after
suit brought.

- The defendant may, at any time before the trial or judgment, serve upon the plaintiff an offer to allow judgment
to be taken against him, for the sum or property, or to the
effect therein specified. If the plaintifff accept the offer,
and give notice thereof within five days, he _may file the
summons, complaint, and offer, with an affidavit of notice of
acceptance, and the Clerk shall thereupon enter judgment
accordingly. If the notice of acceptance be not given, the
offer shall be deemed withdrawn, and shall not be given in
evidence; and if the plaintifff fail to obtain a more favorable
judgment, he shall not recover costs, but shall pay the defendant’s costs, from the time of the offer.

TITLE XXXIX. (a)(b)

OF WITNESSES, AND OF THE MANNER OF OBTAINING EVIDENCE.

CHAPTER L—0f witnesses.

Sncrxon 391. All persons may be witnesses, except as specified in this
c s

pter.
392. No person shall be excluded for his religious belief. When
a person may be excluded for interest. 393. The test of interest. A party may call the adverse party.
394. Persons who shall not be witnesses.
395. Husband and wife shall not be witnesses for or against
each other. ’
396. Attorney shall not be examined as to a communication
made by a client, without consent.
397. Nor a priest as to any confession.
398. Nor atpgiysician as to any information necessarily acquired
in t capacity.
399. {Nor a nblie omoer as to communications made in omeial
co dance.
400. The Judge or any juror may be a witness.

401. When witness does not speak English, an interpreter shall
be sworn.
§ 391. ‘All persons may be witnesses except as specified in this
chapter.

All persons, without exception, otherwise than as specified
in this chapter, may be witnesses in any action or proceeding. Facts which have heretofore caused the exclusion of
testimony, may still be shown, for the purpose of affecting its
credibility.

‘Amended 1863, 701.

§ 392. ‘No person shall be excluded except, etc.

No person shall be disqualilied as a witness in any action
or proceeding'on account of his opinions on matters of religious belief, or by reason of his interest in the event of .the
action or proceeding as a party thereto, or otherwise; but
the party or parties thereto, and the person in whose behalf
such action or proceeding may be brought or defended, shall,

except as hereinafter excepted, be competent and compellable to give evidence, either viva voce, or by deposition, or
upon a commission, in the same manner and subject to the
same rules of examination as any other witness, on behalf of

himself, or either or any of the parties to the action or proceeding.
‘ Amended 1854, 94; 1863, 101.

§ 393. ‘ Where defendant representative of a deceased person.

N 0 person shall be allowed to testify under the provisions
of section three hundred and ninety-two, where the adverse
party, or the party for whose immediate benefit the action or
proceeding is prosecuted or defended, is the representative
of a deceased person, when the facts to be proved transpired
before the death of such deceased person ; and nothing contained in said section shall affect the laws in relation to the
attestation of any instrument required to be attested; nor
shall anything contained in said section render any person
who, in a criminal proceeding, is charged with the commission of any public offense, competent or compellable to give

evidence therein for or against himself. (1)

‘Amended 1854, 94; 1863, 701.

1. Where laintin’ claims under deceased, the admission of deceased in her
lifetime, w e living upon the pro erty in controversy, to the effect that it
belonged to or was in the osses on of defendant, are competent evidence
against plaintifff. Bollo v. avarro, Oct. T. 1867.

2. The word “representative, ” used in the three hundred and ninety-third
section of the Practice Act, as amended in 1863, ap lies to the executor or
administrator of the estate of a deceased erson, an also to the person or

arty who has succeeded to the ri ht o deceased. whether by purchase or
ascent, or operation of law. Doug V. Davis, 26 Cal. 34.

§ 394. ‘Persons who shall not be witnesses.

The following persons shall not be witnesses:

First-—Those who are of unsound mind at the time of their
production for examination.

Second—Children under ten years of age, who, in the
opinion of the Court, appear incapable of receiving just impressions of the facts respecting which they are examined,
or of relating them truly.

Third—Mongoli’ans, Chinese, or Indians, or persons having

except as hereinafter excepted, be competent and -compel‘
lable to give evidence, either viva voce, or by deposition. 01'
upon a commission, in the same manner and subject to the
same rules of examination as any other witness, on behalf Of

himself, or either or any of the parties to the action or proceeding.
‘ Amended 1854, 94; 1863, 101.

§ 393. ‘ Where defendant representative of a deceased P‘3’:3‘_’"'°

No person shall be allowed to testify under the pr0V18l0115
of section three hundred and ninety-two, where the adverse
party, or the party for whose immediate benefit the 8.Ctl0Il. or
proceeding is prosecuted or defended, is the representative
of a deceased person, when the facts to be proved transpired
before the death of such deceased person ; and nothing contained in said section shall affect the laws in relation to the
attestation of any instrument required to be attested; nor
shall anything contained in said section render any person
who, in a criminal proceeding, is charged with the commission of any public offense, competent or compellable to SW9

evidence therein for or against himself. (1)
‘Amended 1854, 94; 1863, 701.

1. Where laintid‘ claims under deceased, the admission of deceased in her
lifetime, whge living upon the property in controversy. 30 the 939°‘ that "5
belonged to or was in the ossession of delfggfliant, 9-1'6 °0mP°t°°t °"d°n°°
Iga1nst' laintiif. Bollo v. avarro, Oct. T. . . .

2. This) word “representative, ” used in the three hundred and n1113tY'thu'd
section of the Practice Act, as amended in 1863, ap lies to the executor 01'
administrator of the estate of a deceased erson, an also to the poison 0:
P3-rty who has succeeded to the right 0 deceased. Whether by Pu“ 39° °
descent, or operation of law. Davis V. Dav?-8. 25 093- 34§ 394. ‘Persons who shall not be witnesses.

The following persons shall not be Witnesses:

Fir8t—-Those who are of unsound mind at the time of their
production for examination. _

See-and—Childi-en under ten years of age._ i;vho._ In ?h°
opinion of the Court, appear incapable of receiving Just Impressions of the facts respecting which they are examined,
or of relating them truly. .

Thz'rd——Mongoli'ans, Chinese, or Indians, or persons having

 j

one-half or more of Indian blood, in an action or proceeding
wherein a white person is a party.

Fourth-Persons against whom judgment has been rendered upon a conviction for a felony, unless pardoned by the
Governor, or such judgment has been reversed on appeal.

1Amended 1854. 94; 1863, 60.

1. There is no precise age within which children are exluded from giving
testimony. Their competency is to be determined, not by their age, but by
gm degree of their understanding and knowledge. The People v. Bernal, 10

al. 6 .

2. It is for the Court to decide the question of their competency when they
are otfered as witnesses. Id.

3. If over fourteen years of age, the presumption is that they possess the
requisite knowledge and understanding; but if under that age, the presum
tion is otherwise, and it must be removed u n their examination by ed:
Court, or under its direction and its presence, fore they can be sworn. Id.

4. People v. Hall (4 Cal. 399), excluding Chinese witnesses in suits to which
white persons are parties. amrmed. Spoor v. See Yup 00., 13 Cal. 73.

5. Where a witness, being sworn, stated that he was fourteen years old and
a Chileno, and did not know “ the obligation of an oath ;" whereupon the
Judge explained to him the nature of such obligation, and he was then permitted to testify—the other party objecting that he did not know the obhgatépp 235 an oath : Held, that the witness was competent. Fuller 7. Fuller, 17

' § 395. ‘Husband and wife shall not be witnesses for or against
each other. A husband may be a witness for or against his wife, and a
wife may be a witness for or against her husband, and where
husband and Wife are parties to an action or proceeding
they, or either of them, may be examined as witnesses in
their own behalf, or in behalf of each other, or in behalf of
any of the parties thereto, the same as any other witness;
but this section shall not apply to cases of divorce, neither
shall any husband or wife be competent or compellable to
disclose any communication made to him or her by the other
during marriage. (1)

‘Amended 1863, 771.

§ 396. An attorney shall not be examined as to communications
made by a client without consent.

An attorney or counselor shall not, without the consent of
his client, be examined as a witness as [to] any communication made by the client to him, or his advice given thereon,
in the course of professional employment.

§ 397. Nor a priest as to a confession.

A clergyman or priest shall not, without.the consent of the
person making the confession, be examined as a witness as to
any confession made to him in his professional character, in
the course of discipline enjoined by the church to which he
belongs.

§ 398. ‘Nor a physician as to any information necessarily acquired in that capacity.

A licensed physician, or surgeon, shall not, without the consent of his patient, be examined as a witness, as to any information acquired in attending the patient, which was necessary to enable him to prescribe, or act for, the patient ; provided, however, in any suit, or prosecution, against a physician,
or surgeon, for malpractice, if the patient, or party, suing, or
prosecuting, shall give such consent, and any such witness
shall give testimony, then such physician, or surgeon, defendant, may call any other physicians, or surgeons, as witnesses
on behalf of defendant, without the consent of such patient,

or party suing, or prosecuting.
xAmended 1861, 305.

§399. Nor a public ojicer as to communications made in
cjicial confidence.

A public officer shall not be examined as a witness as to

communications made to him in official confidence, when the
public interest would suffer by the disclosure.

§ 400. The Judge, or any juror, may be a witness.

The Judge himself, or any juror, may be called as a witness
by either party; but in such case it shall be in the discretion
of the Court or Judge to order the trial to be postponed or
suspended, and to take place before another Judge or jury.

1. A case of forcible entry and detainer was legally brought before a Justice
of the Peace, but he, being a witness in the cause, acting under the six hundred and twentieth section of the Practice Act, sent it to the mayor of 11.,
who, having no jurisdiction, returned it to the successor of the Justice (who
had in the meantime resigned), before whom it was decided. Held, that the
mere fact of sending the cause to the ma or could not be subject of complaint,
and that the judgment of the Justice's urt be sustained. Davis V’. Gallen,

2 Cal. 358.

§ ‘401. When a witness does not speak English, an interpreter
shall be sworn.

When a witness does not understand and speak the English
language, an interpreter shall be sworn to interpret for him.
Any person, a resident of the proper county, may be summoned by any Court or Judge to appear before such Court
or Judge to act as interpreter in any action or proceeding.
The summons shall be served and returned in like manner as
a subpoena. Any person so summoned shall, for a failure to
attend at the time and place named in the summons, be

deemed guilty of a contempt, and may be punished accordingly. '

TITLE XL.

CHAPTER II.—J!Ianner of compelling the attendance of witnesses,
and their rights and duties.*

Sxcrzm 402. Subpoenas may require witnesses alone, or to bring books,
etc.. but not more than thirty miles if out of the

county.
403. Subpoena shall be issued, in what cases.
404. Service of subpoena.
405. Service on concealed witness.
406. Person present may be required to testify without subpoena. _
407. A witness duly served shall attend as required.

408. Witness shall answer pertinent questions; exceptions.

409. Penalty for disobedience to sub oena, etc.

410. Witness disobeying subpoena forfeit one hundred
dollars and all damages.

411. If witness fail to attend, the Court may issue a warrant.

412. If witness be a prisoner, an order for his examination or
production may be made.

413. Such order can be made only upon affidavit.

414. When imprisoned, witness may be produced or his deposition taken.

415. Witness duly subpoenaed exempt from arrest in a civil
action.

416. Arrest of witness under subpoena void; may be discharged
on affidavit.
§ 402. ‘Subpoenas may require witnesses alone, or to bring books,

ete., but not more than thirty miles if out of the county.

A subpoena may require not only the attendance of the
person to whom it is directed, at a particular time and place,
to testify as a witness, but may also require him to bring any
books, documents or other things under his control, to be
used as evidence. No person shall be required to attend as
awitness before any Court, J udge,Justice or any other officer
out of the county in which he resides, unless the distance be
less than thirty miles from his place of residence to the place

of trial.
‘Amended 1855, 197.

§ 403. ‘Subpoena shall be issued, in what ‘cases.

The subpoena shall be issued as follows :

First-—To require attendance before a Court, or at the trial
of an issue therein, it shall be issued under the seal of the

Court before which the attendance is required, or in which
the issue is pending.

Second-—To require attendance out of the Court before a.
Judge, Justice, or other officer authorized to administer oaths
or take testimony in any matter under the la.ws of this State,
it shall be issued by the Judge, Justice, or any other odicer
before whom the attendance is required.

Thz'rd-—To require attendance before a Commissioner appointed to take testimony by a Court of a foreign country, or
of the United States, or of any other State in the United
States, or of any other district or county within this State, or
before any officer or officers empowered by the laws of the
United States to take testimony, it may be issued by any
Judge or Justice of the Peace in places within their respective jurisdiction, with like power to enforce attendance, and,
upon certificate of contumacy to said Court to punish contempt of their process as such Judge or Justice could exercise if the subpoena directed the attendance of the witness

before their Courts in a matter pending therein.

‘Amended 1859, 218; 1866, 708. Bancroft's Forms, 603, 611, and 612. Abb.
Forms, 1585-1594.

§ 404. Service of subpoena.

The service of a subpoena shall be made by showing the
original, and delivering a copy, or a ticket containing its substance, to the Witness personally, giving or offering to him at
the same time, if demanded by him, the fees to which he is
entitled for travel to and from the place designated, and one
day’s attendance there. Such service may be made by any
person.

§ 405. Service on concealed witness.

If a witness be concealed in a building or vessel, so as to
prevent the service of a subpoena upon him, any Court or
Judge, or any oiiicer issuing the subpoena, may, upon proof
by affidavit of the concealment and of the materiality of the
witness, make an order that the Sheriff of the county serve
the subpoena; and the Sheriff shall serve it accordingly,
and for that purpose may break into the building or vessel
where the witness is concealed.

§ 406. Persons present may be required to testify without subpoena.

A person present in Court, or before a judicial officer, may
be required to testify, in the same manner as if he were in
attendance upon a subpoena issued by such Court or officer.

§ 407. A witness duly served shall attend as required.

It shall be the duty of a witness, duly served with a subpoena, to attend at the time appointed, with any papers
under his control required by the subpoena, to answer all
pertinent and legal questions; and unless sooner discharged,
to remain till the testimony is closed.

1. Courts are apt to take too narrow a view of the rights of cross-examination, coniining it to the subject matter of the examination-in-chief. Undoubtedly the cross-examination cannot go beyond that matter, but it ought
to be allowed a very free range within it. The witness may be sifted as to
every fact touching the matters as to which he testfiles, so that his temper,
leanings, relations to the parties and cause. his intelligence, the accuracy of
his memory. his disposition to tell the truth, his character, his means of

knowle e, his general and particular acquaintance with the subset matter,
ma ll); ully tested. Jackson v. Feather River and Gibsonville 00., 14
Ca . .

§ 408. Witness shall answer pertinent questions.

A witness shall answer questions legal and pertinent to the
matter in issue, though his answer may establish a claim
against himself; but he need not give an answer which will
have a tendency to subject him to punishment for a felony;
nor need [he] give an answer which will have a direct tendency to degrade his character, unless it be to the very fact
in issue, or to a fact from which the fact at issue would be
presumed. But a witness shall answer as to the fact of his

previous conviction for felony.

1. Where the answer of a witness would subject him to criminal punishment, he is not privileged from answering on the und that his answer

would di ce him, but solel on the ground that e is not compelled to
oriminate imself. Ea: parte , 7 Cal. 184.

2. Being sentenced on a conviction for etit larceny does not disqualify as
a witness. People v. Shay, 10 Abb. Pr.  413.

§ 409. Penalty for disobedience to subpoena, etc.

Disobedience to a subpoena, or a refusal to be sworn, or to
answer as a witness, or to subscribe an aiiidavit or deposition
when required, may be punished as a contempt by the Court,
or oliicer issuing the subpoena, or requiring the witness to be

sworn ; and if the witness be a party, his complaint may be
dismissed, or his answer stricken out.

§410. Witness disobeying subpoena shall forfeit one hundred
dollars and all damages.

A witness disobeying a subpoena shall also forfeit to the
party aggrieved the sum of one hundred dollars, and all
damages which he may sustain by the failure of the witness
to attend; which forfeiture and damages may be recovered
in a civil action.

§411. If a witness fail to attend, the Court may issue a
warrant.

In case of failure of a witness to attend, the Court or oilicer issuing the subpoena, upon proof of the service thereof,
and of the failure of the witness, may issue a Warrant to the
Sherilf of the county to arrest the witness and bring him
before the Court or officer where his attendance was re

quired.
Bancroft’s Forms, 272.

§ 412. If a witness bea prisoner, an order for his examination
or production may be made.

If the witness be a prisoner, confined in a jail or prison
within this State, for any other cause than a sentence for
felony, an order for his examination in the prison upon deposition, or for his temporary removal and production before
a Court or officer for the purpose of being orally examined,
may be made as follows :

let. By the Court itself, in which the action or special prooeeding is pending;

2d. By a Judge of the Supreme Court, District Court, or
County Judge of the county where the action or proceeding
is pending, if before a Judge or other person out of Court.

§ 413. Such order can be made only upon ajidavit.

Such order can only be made upon affidavit, showing the
nature of the action or proceeding, the testimony expected
from the witness, and its materiality.

§ 414. When imprisoned witness may be produced or his depoa

sition taken.

If the witness be imprisoned in the county where the
action or proceeding is pending, and for a cause other than a
sentence for felony, his production may be required. In all
other cases, his examination, when allowed, shall be taken upon
deposition.

§ 415. Witness duly subpoenaed exempt from arrest in a civil
action.

Every person who has been in good faith served with a
subpoena to attend as a witness before a Court, Judge, Commissioner, referee, or other person, in a case where the disobedience of the witness may be punished as a contempt,
shall be exonerated from arrest, in a civil action, while going
to the place of attendance, necessarily remaining there, and
returning therefrom.

1. This section does not exempt him from obeying any ordinary process of

the Court, e. g.. to attend and answer concerning his property, under asup- p

plementary writ. Page v. Randall, 6 Cal. 32.

§416. Arrest of witness under subpama void, may be discharged on ajidavit.

The arrest of a witness contrary to the last section shall
be void; but an officer shall not be liable to the party for
making the arrest in ignorance of the facts creating the exoneration, but shall be liable for any subsequent detention of
the party, if such party claim the exemption and make an
affidavit, stating:

1st. That he has been served with a subpoena to attend as
a witness before a Court, oiiicer, or other person ; specifying
the same, the place of attendance, and the action or proceeding in which the subpoena was issued ; and,

2d. That he has not been thus served by his own procurement with the intention of avoiding an arrest.

3d. That he is at the time going to theplace of attendance.,
or returning therefrom, or remaining there in obedience to
the subpmna. The affidavit may be taken by the officer, and
shall exonerate him from liability for discharging the witness
when arrested.

TITLE XLI.

CHAPTER III.—0f the examination of parties to an action or
proceeding, and of persons for whose immediate bene/it such
action or proceeding is prosecuted or defended.*

Sncnon 417. No action for discovery of evidence shall be allowed.

418. A party may be examined for the adverse party in the
same manner as any other witness.

419. Such examination may be rebntted.

420. Penalty for refusal of a party to testify.

421. Part so called may be examined on his own behalf.
W en adverse party may be called in rebuttal.

422. A person for whose benefit an action is pgosecuted may
testify as if a party. And a party may examined on
his own behalf on notice.

423. Copartners, when parties, may be examined to prove
items of account.

§ 417. ‘No action for discovery of evidence shall be allowed.

No action to obtain a discovery under oath, in aid of the
prosecution or defense of another action or proceeding, shall
be allowed, nor shall any examination of a party he had on
behalf of the adverse party, except in the manner provided
by this and the foregoing chapter.

Section 418.—Repealed April 27th, 1863, p. 701.

§ 419. Such examination may be rebutted.

The examination of a party, thus taken, may be rebutted

by adverse testimony.
N. Y. Code, g 393.

§ 420. ‘Penalty for refusal of a party to testify.

If an adverse party refuse to attend and testify at the
trial, or to give his deposition before trial, or upon a com‘
mission, when required, his complaint or answer may be
stricken out, and judgment be taken against him ; and he may

be also, in the discretion of the Court, proceeded against as

in other cases for a contempt.
‘Amended 1863, 701.

Section 421.—Repealed April 27a, 1863, p. 701.

Section 422.—Bepealed April 27th, 1863, p. 702.
Amended 1861, 522.

Section 423.—Bepealed April 27th, 1868, p. 702.
Amended 1854, 95.

T I T L E X L I I .
CHAPTER IV .—0n a_17i(lavits.*

Sncnox 42¢ Amdavits to be used in this State, before whom may be
taken in this State.
425. It‘ made in another State of the United States, before whom
token.
426. If made in a foreign country, before whom taken.
427. Certificate of clerk, if taken before a Judge of a Court out
of this State.

§ 424. A jidavits to be used in this State, before whom may be
taken in this State.

An aiiidavit to be used before any Court, Judge, or officer

§ 425. If made in another State of the United States, before
whom taken.

An affidavit taken in another State of the United States,
to be used in this State, shall be taken before a Commissioner
appointed by the Governor of this State to take aliidavits
and depositions in such other State, or before any Judge of a

Court of Record having a seal.

§ 426. If made in a foreign country, before whom taken.

An affidavit taken in a foreign country to be used 111 this
State, shall be taken before an Ambassador, Minister, or Consul of the United States, or before any Judge of a Court of

Record having a seal in such foreign country.

§427. Certtficate of the Clerk, If taken before a Judge of a
Court out of this State.

When an affidavit is taken before a Judge of a Court in
another State, or in a foreign country, the genuineness of
the signature of the Judge, the existence of the Court, and
the fact that such Judge is a member thereof, shall be certified by the Clerk of the Court under the seal thereof.

TITLE XLIII.

CHAPTER V.—0f depositions taken in this State.*

Sxcrrox 428. Depositions of witnesses in this State maybe taken in

certain cases.

429. Depositions may be taken before a Judge, etc., upon notice to the adverse party.

430. Manner of taking depositions. May be used by either

‘party on the trial.
431. A eposition may be read at any stage of the action or
proceeding.

§428. Depositions of witnesses in this State may be taken in
certain cases.

The testimony of a witness in this State may be taken by
deposition in an action at any time after the service of the
summons or the appearance of the defendant; and in a special proceeding, after a question of fact has arisen therein, in
the following cases:

1st. When the witness is a party to the action or proceeding, or a person for whose immediate benefit the action or
proceeding is prosecuted or defended ;

2d. When the witness resides out of the county in which
his testimony is to be used ;

3d. When the witness is about to leave the county where
the action is to be tried, and will probably continue absent
when the testimony is required ;

4th. When the witness, otherwise liable to attend the trial,
is nevertheless too infirm to attend.

1 Taking testimony by de sitions is in derogation of the common law,

 must not on] be done the proper officer, but every requirement of
law must be comp ‘ed with. cC'ann v. Beach, 2 Cal. 25.

2. All the requisitions of the statute, in relation to the taking of depositions. must be strictly complied with; and this must a pear upon the
de sition to entitle itto admission. Dye v. Bailey, 2 Cal. 33 .

. The testimon of a party to an action may be taken by de sition, if
he resides out of t e county in which his testimony is to be use , although
he resides within less than thirty miles of the place of trial. Slcidmore 7.

Taylor, 39 Cal. 619.
§429. ‘Depositions may be taken before a Judge, etc-., upon
notice to the adverse party.

Either party may have the deposition taken, of a witness
in this State, before any Judge, or Clerk, or any Justice of the
Peace, or Notary Public in this State, on serving on the adverse party previous notice of the time and place of examination, together with a copy of an affidavit, showing that the
case is one mentioned in the last section. At any time during
the forty days immediately after the service of summons by
publication has been completed, and at any time thereafter.
when the defendant has not appeared, the notice required by
this section may be served on the Clerk of the Court where
the action is pending. Such notice shall be at’ least five days,
and, in addition, one day for every twenty-five miles of the

distance of the place of examinationfrom the residence of
the person to whom the notice is given, unless, for a cause
shown, a Judge, by order, prescribe a shorter time. When a
shorter time is prescribed, a copy of the order shall be served
with the notice.

‘Amended 1859, 218 ; Bancroft’s Forms, 550-551.
1. A slight error in the title of a cause, where there is no other snit mling between the parties, will not invalidate the notice. M ills v. p, 3
Ca . 94.

2. The decision of such motion'rests in the sound discretion of the Court.

who must decide upon the sulilciency, or otherwise, of the grounds upon
which such motion is made. Id.

3. Proof of notice to take a de osition, where the written notice was defective, was held good, when made y parol and conforming substantially to the
statute. Id.

4. An appearance at the time and place, and cross-examining the witness,
waives whatever objection may be ha because the notice is too short. Jones
v. Love, 9 Cal. 68.

5. An order to take testimony by deposition should specify the notice to be
given to the adverse A deposition taken upon an order without such
specification, where opposite part has not had reasonable notice, ought
not to be read in evidence. Ellis v. aszynslc;/, 5 Cal. 444.

6. Notice of time and place having been given, it is a matter of small importance who took the deposition, particularly in view of the inconvenience
tsznéiaileézgg which would result from a different rule. Williams v. Chadbourne,

7. It being ob'ected by plaintifff to a deposition: lst, that the co y of the
order of the Ju ge. fixing the time for taking it, did not mention e notice
to be given the adverse party; 2d, that no correct copy of said order was
served ; 3d, that no sumcient notice to take the deposition was ever given ;
the objection was overruled, “ because the original order of the Jud e, made
on aliidavit, fixed the time of notice at three days, and because p 'ntii1"s
counsel acknowledged service in writing of a copy thereof March 8th, 1859,
more than three days before the taking of the deposition." Held, that there
was no error; that the objection assigned was matter for the Court, and its
discretion was roperlfy exercised ; that reasonable notice should be given of
the time and p ace 0 taking testimony: but what is reasonable notice, depends on the particular circumstances. Attwood v. Fr-ioot, 17 Cal. 37.

8. To make the testimony of a witness admissible, he must be competent
at the time of takingihis deposition. It is the effect of the interest on the

witness at the time s testimony is taken that disqualfiles him. Kimball v.
Gearhart, 12 Cal. 27.

§430. Manner of taking depositions; may be used by either
party on the trial. .

Either party may attend such examination and put such
questions, direct and cross, as may be proper. The deposition, when completed, shall be carefully read to the witness
and corrected by him in any particular, if desired; it shall
then be subscribed by the witness, certified by the Judge or
officer taking the deposition, inclosed in an envelope or wrapper sealed, and directed to the Clerk of the Court in which
the action is pending, or to such person as the parties in

writing may agree upon, and either delivered by the Judge
or officer to the Clerk or such person, or transmitted through
the mail, or by some safe private opportunity; and thereupon such deposition may be used by either party upon the
trial, or other proceeding, against any party giving or receiving the notice, subject to all legal exceptions. But if the
parties attend at the examination, no objection to the form of
an interrogatory shall be made at the trial, unless the same
was stated at the time of the examination. If the deposition be taken by the reason of the absence or intended absence from the county of the witness, or because he is too
infirm to attend, proof by affidavit or oral testimony shall be
made at the trial that the witness continues absent, or infirm,
to the best of the deponent’s knowledge or belief. The

deposition thus taken may also be read in case of the death
of the Witness.

§ 431. A deposition may be used at any stage of the action or

proceeding.
When a deposition has been once taken, it may be read in
any stage of the same action or proceeding by either party,

and shall then be deemed the evidence of the party reading it.

1. The readin of evidence taken by deposition, although done after the
j have re‘ ,isasmucha part of thetrialasany other. ThoPeoptev.
K0 , 5 Cal. 72. _

2.  Whether a rty can object, on second trial to the reading of a
deposition which he s ered his adversary to read on the first trial without
ob ection. Myers v. Casey, 14 Cal. 642.

. The object of this section is to enable either party to read a deposition
admissible in itself, once taken, in any stage of the action or proceeding-—
z8i<()3I';lto gpgder it admissible simply because it was taken. Turner v. Mcllhrmey,

T I T L E X L I V .
CHAPTER VI.—0f depositions taken out of this S'tate.*

SEOIION 432. Testimony of a witness out of the State may be taken after service of summons or issue joined.
433. Such deposition shall be taken upon commission issued
under seal, upon notice; to whom to issue.
434. Proper interrogatories, direct and cross, may be prepared
or may be waived by the parties.
435. Authority and duties of commissioner.
436. Trial shall not be posponed for return of commission, exce _t upon showing of materiality of evidence and due
nce.

§432. Testimony of a witness out of the State may be taken
after service of summons or issue joined.

The testimony of a witness out of the State may be taken
by deposition, in an action, at any time after the service of
the summons, or the appearance of the defendant; and in a

special proceeding, at any time after a question of fact has
arisen therein.

1. Dili ence must be used in applying for a commission. Pierson v. Holbroolc. 2 al. 598. Vida Rule 46.

§ 433. Such deposition shall be taken upon commission issued
under seal upon notice; to whom to issue.

The deposition of a witness out of this State shall be taken
upon commission issued from the Court, under the seal of the
Court, upon an order of the Judge, or Court, or County
Judge, on the application of either party, upon five days’
previous notice to the other. It shall be issued to a person.
agreed upon between the parties, or if they do not agree, to
any Judge or Justice of the Peace selected by the officer
granting the commission, or to a commissioner appointed by

the Governor of this State to take affidavits and depositions
in other States.*

§434. Proper interrogatories may be prepared, or may be
waived, by the parties.

Such proper interrogatories, direct and cross, as the respective parties may prepare, to be settled, if the parties disagree
as to their form, by the Judge or oiiicer granting the order
for the commission, at a day fixed in the order, may be annexed to the commission; or when the parties agree to that
mode, the examination may be without written interrogatories.

1. If a commission to take the deposition of a witness out of the State is
issued, on the application of one part without consent of the other. to a person who is not a Judge or Justice of e Peace, or a commissioner appointed
by the Governor of this State, and the party who does not consent, alter the
appointment, files cross interrogatories, and stipulates as to the manner in
which the deposition shall be returned, is estopped from saying that the commissioner was improperly appointed. Crowther v. Rowlandson, 27 Cal. 383.

§ 435. Authority and duties of commissioner.

The commission shall authorize the commissioner to administer an oath to the witness, and to take his deposition in
answer to the interrogatories; or when the examination is to
be Without interrogatories, in respect to the question in dispute ; and to certify the deposition to the Court, in a sealed
envelop directed to the Clerk, or other person designated or

agreed upon, and forwarded to him by mail or other usual

channel of conveyance.
Bancroft's Forms, 547-8.

1. If the parties stipulate that a commissioner may take a deposition upon
written interrogatories, and the stipulation says nothing about the day the same
may be taken by the commissioner, it is not necessary that the commissioner

state in his certificate the day the same was taken. Elgin v. 11 ill, 27 Cal. 373.

§ 436. Trial shall not be postponed for return of commission,
except upon showing of materiality of evidence and due diligence.
A trial, or other proceeding, shall not be postponed by reason of a commission not returned, except upon evidence satisfactory to the Court that the testimony of the witness is
necessary, and that proper diligence has been used to obtain it.

TITLE XLV.

CHAPTER VII.—0f proceedings to perpetuate testimong/.*

SECTION 437. Testimony may be perpetuated.

438. The applicant shall present verified petition to a Judge.
Granting and service of order.

439. Upon due service of notice, the depositions of the witnesses
named may be taken.

440. Manner of taking depositions and tiling thereof.

441. Anidavits, etc., filed with depositions shall be prima facie
proof of the facts therein stated.

442. Manner of using such depositions, if trial he had.

§ 437. ‘Testimony may be perpetuated.

The testimony of a witness, or witnesses, may be taken and

perpetuated as provided in this chapter.
Amended 1859, 219.

§ 438. ‘The applicant shall present verified petition. Granting
and service of order.

The applicant shall present to a District or County Judge
a petition, verified by the oath of the applicant, stating:

lst. That the applicant expects to be a party to an action
in a Court in this State, and in such case, the name or names
of the person, or persons, whom he expects will be adverse
parties ; or,

2d. That the proof of some fact, or facts, is necessary to perfect the title to property in which he is interested, or to
establish marriage, descent, heirship, or any other matter
which may hereafter become material to establish, though no
suit may at the time be anticipated, or, if anticipated, he
may not know the parties to such suit; and,

3d. The name or names of the witness, or witnesses, to be
examined, his or their place of residence, and a general
outline of the facts expected to be proved. The Judge, to
whom such petition is presented, shall make an order allowing
the examination, and prescribing the notice to be given, which
notice, if parties are known and reside in this State, shall be
personally served on them ; and if unknown, such notice shall
be served on the Clerk of the county where the property to
be affected by such evidence is situated, and a ‘notice thereof
published in some newspaper to be designated by the Judge

making the order. ,
‘Amended 1859, 219. Abb. Forms, 1581-4.

§ 439. ‘ Upon due service of notice, the depositions of the witnesses named may be taken.

Upon proof of service of the notice, as provided in the last
section,it shall be the duty of the Judge, before whom the depositions are ordered to be taken, to proceed to take the depositions of the witnesses named in said petition, upon the
facts therein set forth, and the taking of the same may be

continued, from time to time, in the discretion of the Judge.
‘Amended 1859, 219.

§ 440. ‘.Manner of taking depositions and filing thereof.

The examination shall be by question and answer, unless
the parties otherwise agree. The deposition, when taken,
shall be carefully read to, and subscribed by, the witness,
then certified by the Judge, and immediately thereafter, filed
in the office of the Clerk of the District Court of the county

where the same was taken, together with the order for the
examination, the petition on which the same was granted, and

the proof of service of notice.
‘Amended 1859, 219.

§44l. ‘Ajidavits, etc., filed with depositions, shall be prima
facie proof of the facts therein stated.

The aliidavits, or other proof filed with the depositions, or
certified copies thereof, shall be prima facie evidence of the

facts therein stated.
‘Amended 1859, 219.

§ 442. ‘Manna of using such depositions, if trial be had.

If a trial be had between the parties named in the petition
as parties expectant, or their successors in. interest, or between any parties wherein it may be material to establish the
facts which such depositions prove, or tend to prove, upon
proof of the death or insanity of the witness or witnesses, or
of his or their inability to attend the trial by reason of age,
sickness, or settled infirmity, the deposition or depositions, or
certified copies thereof, may be used by either party, subject
to all legal objections. But if the parties attend at the examination, no objection to the form of an interrogatory shall

be made at the trial, unless the same was stated at the examination.
‘Amended 1859, 219.

TITLE XLVI.

CHAPTER VHI.—Administratz'on of oaths and aj‘irmations.*

Szcrrox 443. Authorizing certain persons to administer oaths.
444. A person ma be sworn according to the peculiar ceremonies of 's religion.
445. A witness may, instead of taking an oath, make an
amrmation.

§ 443. Authorizing certain persons to administer oaths.

Every Court of this State, every Judge or Clerk of any
Court, every Justice of the Peace, and every Notary Public,
and every officer authorized to take testimony, or to decide
upon evidence in any proceeding, shall have power to admin‘
ister oaths or allirmations.

1. The attestation or certificate of a notary, that an affidavit was sworn to
or afiirmed and subscribed before him, is regular, although his seal is not
amxed. Mills v. Dunlap, 3 Cal. 97.

§ 444. A person may be sworn according to the peculiar ceremonies if his religion.

When a person is sworn who believes in any other than
the Christian religion, he may be sworn according to the pe'
culiar ceremonies of his religion, if there be any such.

§ 445. A witness may, instead of taking an oath, make an
aj‘irmatz'on. '

Any witness who desires it may, at his option, instead of
taking an oath, make his solemn affirmation or declaration, by
assenting, when addressed in the following form: “ You do
solemnly affirm, that the evidence you shall give in this issue
(or matter), pending between ——-— and ————, shall be the
truth. the whole truth, and nothing but the‘ truth.” Assent

to this affirmation shall be made by the answer, “I do.” A ‘

false afhrmation or declaration shall be deemed perjury,
equally with a false oath.

TITLE XLVII.

CHAPTER IX.—Inspectz'on of documents, and miscellaneous
provisions as to records and writings.

SECTION 446. The Court may, upon notice, order a party to grant an
inspection of a book, etc., relating to the merits of a
case.

447. When there may be evidence of the contents of a Wfitr
ing other than itself.

448. IDtl‘?'(l111Cl§lOD in evidence of a writing altered in a materi part.

449. Proof of a judicial record of this State, or of the United
States.

450. Proof of the records, etc., of any other State of the
United States.

451. Proof of a judicial record of a forei country.

452. Proof of a copy of a judicial recor of a foreigx country.

453. Printed copies of statutes, etc., of another State or Government, published by authority, are presumptive evidence of such laws.

454. Impression of a seal of a Court or public office.

§ 446. The Court may, upon notice, order a party to grantan
inspection of a book, etc., relating to the merits of a case.

Any Court in which an action is pending, or a Judge thereof, or a County Judge, may, upon notice, order either party
to give to the other Within a specified time an inspection
and copy, or permission to take a copy of any book, document, or paper in his possession, or under his control, containing evidence relating to the merits of the action, or the
defense therein. ‘If compliance With the order be refused,

the Court may exclude the book, document, or paper, from
being given in evidence ;_ or if wanted as evidence by the
party applying, may direct the jury to presume it to be such
as he alleges it to be; and the Court may also punish the
party refusing for a contempt. This section shall not be
construed to prevent a party from compelling another to produce books, papers, or documents, when he is examined as a
witness.
N. Y. Code, § 388. Notice, sumciency of; see § 447.

1. The Practice Act authorizes the Court to makean order directing a arty
ta) rgggce books and papers in Court. Bumstead v. Empire Mining 80.,
§ 447. When there may be evidence of the contents of a writing other than itself.’

There shall be no evidence of the contents of a writing,
other than the writing itself, except in the following cases :
lst. When the original has been lost or destroyed"; in
which case proof of the loss or destruction shall first be made ;
2d. When the original is in the possession of the party
against _whom the evidence is offered, and he fails to produce

it after reasonable notice ;
3d. When the original is a record or other document, in

the custody of a public oliicer;

4th. When the original has been recorded, and a certified
copy of the record is made evidence by statute ;

5th. When the original consists of numerous accounts or
other documents, which cannot be examined in Court without
great loss of time, and the evidence sought from them is only
the general result of the whole.

ance or alteration. He may show that the alteration was
made by another, without his concurrence, or was made with
the consent of the parties affected by it, or otherwise properly

or innocently made. If he do that, he may give the writing
in evidence, but not otherwise.

1. A party ofering a promissory note in evidence is not obliged, before the
same is admitted, to account for an erasure appearing upon the face of it,
unless the erasure has been made or appears to have been made after the execution of the instrument, and is on a part of the note which is material to the
point in dispute. Corcoran v. Doll, 32 Cal. 82.

2. When a printed form of a promissory note is used, and an erasure is
made only as to the printed matter, the presumption is that it was prior to
the execution of the note, and to suit the terms agreed on by the parties. Id.

3. Where a deed is produced in evidence bg a party claiming under it, and
it appears upon its face to have been altere in a particular material to his
interest and to the prejudice of the other party, it is incumbent on him to
establish by satisfactory evidence that the alteration was made by the grantor
or by his authorit , or the deed will be deemed for the pu oses of the action

to read as it did fore the alteration was made. Galla et at. v. J aclcman,
26 Cal. 79.

§4-49; Proof of a judicial record of this State or of the
United States.

A judicial record of this State, or of the United States, may
be proved by the production of the original, or a copy thereof,
certified by the Clerk, or other person having the legal cus-.

tody thereof, under the seal of the Court, to be a true copy of
such record.*

F § 450. ‘Proof of the records, etc., of any other State of the

lUnz'ted States.

The records and judicial proceedings of the Courts of any
other State of the United States may be proved or admitted
in the Courts of this State by the attestation of the Clerk
and the seal of the Court annexed, if there be a seal,
together with a certificate of the Judge Chief Justice or

presiding Magistrate, as the case may be, that the said attestation is in due form.

‘Amended 1854, 95 ; Abb. Forms, 1595, 1599.

1. A record certified in conformity with the four hundred and fiftieth

section of the Practice Act. would be admissible in the Courts of this State.
Parloe v. Williams, 7 Cal. 247.

2. Held, further, that the attachment papers of B. & Co. v. V. & Co. were
admissible in lavor of defendant. See facts. Dexter v. Paugh, 18 Cal. 372.

§ 451. Proof of a judicial record of a foreign country.

A judicial record of a foreign country may he proved bythe production of a copy thereof, certified by the Clerk, with
the seal of the Court annexed, if there be a Clerk and seal ;
or by the legal keeper of the record with the sealof his
office annexed, if there be a seal, to be a true copy of such
record : together with a certificate of a Judge of the Court,
that the person making the certificate is the Clerk of the
Court, or the legal keeper of the record, and in either case,
that the signature is genuine, and the certificate in due form ;
and also together With the certificate of the Minister or Ambassador of the United States or of a Consul of the United
States, in such foreign "country, that there is such a Court,
specifying generally the nature of its jurisdiction, and

verifying the signature of the Judge and Clerk, or other
legal keeper of the record.

§ 452. Proof of copy of a judicial record of a foreign country.

A copy of the judicial record of a foreign country shall also
be admissible in evidence upon proof :

1st. That the copy offered has been compared by the witness with the original, and is an exact transcript of the whole
of it;

2d. That such original was in the custody of the Clerk of
the Court, or other legal keeper of the same ; and,

3d. That the copy is duly attested by a seal, which is
proved to be the seal of the Court where the record remains,
if it be the record of a Court; or if there be no such seal,

or if it be not a. record of a Court, by the signature of the

legal keeper of the original.
See g 655.

§ 453. Printed copies of statutes, etc., of another State or Government, published by authority, are presumptive evidence of such
laws.

Printed copies in volumes of statutes, code, or other written law, enacted by any other State, or Territory, or foreign
Government, purporting or proved to have been published by
the authority thereof, or proved to be commonly admitted as
evidence of the existing law, in the Courts and judicial tribunals of such State, Territory, or Government, shall be admitted by the Courts and officers of this State, on all occasions, as presumptive evidence of such laws.
See § 655.

§ 454. Impression of a seal of a Court or public ojice.

A seal of a Court or public oliice, when required to any
writ or process, or proceeding, or to authenticate a copy of

any record or document, may be impressed with wax, wafer,
or any other substance, and then attached to the writ, process, or proceeding, or to the copy of the record or document,
or it may be impressed on the paper alone.

1. Twli:   of the seal may be made upon paper only. Connelly v.

2. A scrawl with “L. 8." written within it, is sumcient. Hastings v.
Vaughn, 3 Cal. 315.

TITLE XLVIII.

OF THE WRIT OF CEBTIORARI AND OF MANDAMUB.

CHAPTER I.—The writ of certiorari, or review.

Station 455. The writ of eertiorari; denomination of.

456. This writ may be issued by a superior Court to an inferior
tribunal; in what cases.

457. The application shall be made on affidavit with notice. or
-' wi out.

458. The writ to be directed to the inferior tribunal.
459. The contents of the writ.

460. Proceedings in the inferior Court, eto., may be stayed or
not.
461. Service of the writ.
462. The review under the writ; extent of.

463. A defective return of the writ may be perfected. Hearing
and judgment.

464. Copyl oit'c Judgment shall be sent to the inferior tribuna , e .,

465. Judgment roll. Appeals may be taken as in civil actions.
§ 455. The writ of certiorari, the writ of review.

The writ of certiorari may be denominated the writ of
review. '

§ 456. This writ will be issued by a superior Court to an inferior tribunal ; in what cases.

This writ may be granted on application by any Court of
this State, except a Justice’s, Recorder’s, or Mayor’s Court;
the writ shall be granted in all cases when an inferior tribunal, board, or officer, exercising judicial functions, has exceeded the jurisdiction of such tribunal, board, or officer; and

there is no appeal, nor, in the judgment of the Court, any
plain, speedy, and adequate remedy.

§ 457. The application shall be made on ajidavit with notice,
or without.

The application shall be made on allidavit by the party
beneficially interested, and the Court may require a notice of
the application to be given to the adverse party, or may
grant an order to show cause why it should not be allowed, or

may grant the writ without notice.
Abb. Forms, 2032, 2083, 2042, and 2043.

§ 458. The writ to be directed to the inferior tribunal, etc.

The writ may be directed to the inferior tribunal, board or

officer, or to any other person having the custody of the record
or proceedings to be certified. When directed to a tribunal. the

Clerk, if there be one, shall return the Writ with the transcript required.

§ 459. The contents of the writ.

The writ of review shall command the party to whom it is
directed to certify fully to the Court issuing the writ, at a.
specified time and place, and annex to the writ a transcript
of the record and proceedings, (describing or referring to
them, with convenient certainty), that the same may be re»
viewed by the Court ; and requiring the party in the meantime to desist from further proceedings in the matter to be

reviewed.
Bancroft’s Forms, 520; Abb. Forms, 2034, 2041.

§ 460. Proceedings in the inferior Court may be stayed, or not.

If a stay of proceedings‘be not intended, the words requiring the stay shall be omitted from the writ; these words
may be inserted or omitted in the sound discretion of the
Court; but if omitted, the power of the inferior Court or
officer shall not be suspended, nor the proceedings stayed.

§ 461. Service of the writ.

The writ shall be served in the same manner as a summons
in civil action, except when otherwise expressly directed
by the Court.

462. The review under the writ; extent of.

The review upon this writ shall not be extended further
than to determine whether the inferior tribunal, board, or
officer has regularly pursued the authority of such tribunal,

board, or officer.

§ 463. A defective return of the writ may be perfected. Hearing and judgment.

If the return of the writ be defective, the Court may order
a further return to be made. When a full return has been

made, the Court shall proceed to hear the parties, or such of
them as may attend for that purpose,and may thereupon give
judgment, either affirming, or annulling, or modifying the

proceedings below.

Abb. Forms, 203? and 2045.

1. When a case is brought from an inferior Court or tribunal to the Supreme
Court by certiorari, if all the facts upon which the Court below acted are not
in the record, the Supreme Court may require the Court below to certify such
facts. Blair v. Hamilton, 32 Cal. 49.

2. The return of a finding of facts made by a County Judge to writ of oerliorari constitutes a part of the record within the meaning of the four hundred
and sixty-third section of the Practice Act, though the finding is not made
until the next term after the testimony is taken, and the order or judgment
based on it is made. Id.

3. A clerk of the board for the equalization of taxes, in answerto a writ of
certlorari requiring the board to certify the proceedings had before them in
relation to equalizing the value of property, can return only a transcript of
such documents, orders, etc.. as remain of record or on file in his odice. 0.
P. R. R. Co. v. Placer 00., 32 Cal. 582. _

4. If‘ the board for the equalization of taxes do not take down and preserve the evidence in a matter of equalization of a tax, and have the same
filed with the clerk, the evidence cannot be certified by the clerk in his return
to a writ of certiorari. Id.

§ 464. Copy of judgment shall be sent to the inferior tribunal.

A copy of the judgment, signed by the Clerk, shall be
transmitted to the inferior tribunal, board, or officer, having
the custody of the record or proceeding certified up.

§465. Judgment roll. Appeals may be taken as in civil
actions.

A copy of the judgment, signed by the Clerk, entered
upon, or attached to, the Writ and return, shall constitute the

judgment roll. If the proceeding be had in any other than
the Supreme Court, an appeal may be taken from the judgment in the same manner, and upon the same terms, as from

a judgment in a civil action.
For_costs on writ of review, see § 508.

TITLE XLIX.

CHAPTER II.—The writ of mandate, or mandamus.

Sacnox 466. The writ of mandamus. denomination of.

467. The writ may be issued by a superior Court to an inferior
tribunal, etc., in what cases.

468. The writ shall issue on affidavit, where there is no adequate remedy in the ordinary course of law.

469. Shall] be either alternative or peremptory. Substance of
t e writ.

470. If the application be without notice, the alternative writ
shall 188118; otherwise, the peremptory. Notice and
default.

471. The adverse party may answer under oath.

472. If an essential question of fact is raised, the Court may
order a jury trial.

473. This applipant may demur to the answer or countervail it

y me .

474. Either? party may move for a new trial. Two verdicts for
the same party shall be conclusive.

475. The Clerk shall transmit the verdict to the Court where
the motion is pending, after which the hearing shall be
had on motion. ,

476. If no answer be made, or if the answer raise no material
issue of fact, the heari shall be before the Court.

477. If the applicant succeedflghe may have damages, costs,
and a peremptory mandate.

478. Service of the writ.

479. Penalty for disobedience to the writ of mandate.

§ 466. The writ of mandamus, denomination of.

The writ of mandamus may be denominated the writ of
mandate.

§ 467. The writ  be issued by a Superior Court to an inferior tribunal; in what cases.

It may be issued by any Court in this State, except a Justice’s, Recorder's, or Mayor’s Court, to any inferior tribunal,

§ 469. Shall be either alternative or peremptory. Substance of
the writ.

The writ shall be either alternative or peremptory; the
alternative writ shall state generallylthe allegation against
the party to whom it is directed, and command such party,
immediately after the receipt of the writ, or at some other
specified time, to do the act required to be performed, or to
show cause before the Court, at a specified time and place,
why he has not done so. The peremptory writ shall be in a
similar form, except that the words requiring the party to
show cause why he has not done as commanded shall be
omitted, and a return day shall be inserted.

Bancroft’s Forms, 571-572; Abb. Forms, 2068-2073.
1. Where notice of the motion for a mandamus, and a copy of the apers

on which the motion is founded, have been duly served on the District udge,
this Court may, in its discretion, issue either an alternative, or a peremptory
writ, in the first instance People v. Turner, 1 Cal. 143.

§ 470. If the application be without notice, the alternative writ

shall issue, otherwise the peremptory. Notice and default.

When the application to the Court is made without notice
to the adverse party, and the writ be allowed, the alternative
shall be first issued; but if the application be upon due
notice, and the writ be allowed, the peremptory may be
issued in the first instance. The notice of the application,
when given, shall be at least ten days. The writ shall not be
granted by default. _The case shall be heard by the Court,

whether the adverse party appear or not.
Ahb. Forms, 2067.

§ 471. The adverse party may answer under oath.

On the return of the alternative, or the day on which the
application of the writ is noticed, or such further day as the
Court may allow, the party on whom the writ or notice shall
have been served may show cause by answer under oath,
made in the same manner as an answer to a complaint in a
civil action. ‘

§ 472. If an essential question of fact is raised, the Court
may order a jury trial.
If an answer be made, which raises a question as to a matter

of fact essential to the determination of the motion, and affecting the substantial rights of the parties, and upon the supposed

truth of the allegation of which the application for the writ is
based, the Court, may, in its discretion, order the question to
be tried before a jury, and postpone the argument until such
trial can be had, and the verdict certified to the Court. The
question to be tried shall be distinctly stated in the order for

trial, and the county shall be designated in which the same shall
be had. The order may also direct the jury to assess any

damages which the applicant may have sustained, in case they

find for him. '

1. In an application for a mandamus to compel a District Judge to sign a
bill of exceptions, which the relator alleges he refuses to do, and where the
District Judge, in his answer, avers that he has signed a true bill of exceptions,
and that the one presented by relator is not a true bill. relator is not entitled
to a jury to try the issue, under section four hundred and seventy-two of the
Practice Act. People ea: rel. Galvin v. The Judge of the ma: Judicial District,
9 a . )9.

, 2. Where an alternative mandamus was issued to a Justice of the Peace to
compel himto send 11 papers on appeal to the County Court, to which he
answered that his fees had not been paid or tendered " prior to the service of
the alternate writz” Held, his answer is no defense to the writ being made
peremptory. as the fees may have been paid since the service of the writ. People exrel. Hamilton v. Harris, 9 Cal. 571.

3. If a question of fact upon issues joined arises in a roceeding by mandamus commenced in the Supreme Court, that Court refer the matter to
a District Court to and determine the special fact in issue, and return the
fact to the Supreme ourt. Calaveras County v. Broclcway, 30 Cal. 325.

§ 473. The applicant may demur to, the answer or cozmtervail
it by proof.

On the trial, the applicant shall not be precluded by the
answer of any valid objection to its suliiciency, and may countervail it by proof either in direct denial or by way of avoidance.

§ 474. Either party may move for a new trial. Two verdicts
for the same party shall be conclusive.

If either party be dissatisfied with the verdict of the jury,
he may move for a new trial upon a statement prepared as
provided in section one hundred and ninety-five. The motion
for a new trial may, upon reasonable notice, be brought on
before the Judge of the Court in which the cause was tried,
either in term or vacation. If a new trial be granted, the
jury shall, within five days thereafter, unless the parties
agree on a longer time, be summoned to try the issue. After

a second verdict in favor of the same party, a new trial shall
not be had.

§ 475. The Clerk shall transmit the verdict to the Court where
the motion is pending, after which the hearing shall be had on
motion.

If no notice for a new trial be given, or if given, be denied,
the Clerk, within five days after the rendition of the verdict
or denial of the motion, shall transmit to the Court in which
the application for the writ is pending, a certified copy of the
verdict attached to the order of trial ; after which either

party may bring on the argument of the application, upon
reasonable notice to the adverse party.

§ 476. If no answer be made, or if the answer raise no mate-.

rial issue of fact, the hearing shall be before the Court.

If no answer be made, the case shall be heard on the papers
of the applicant. If an answer be made which does not raise
a question such as is mentioned in section four hundred and
seventy-two, but only such matters as may be explained or
avoided by a reply, the Court may, in its discretion, grant
time for replying. If the answer, or answer and reply, raise
only questions of law, or put in issue immaterial statements,
not affecting the substantial rights of the parties, the Court

shall proceed to hear, or fix a day for hearing the argument
of the case.

§ 477. If the applicant succeed, he may have damages, costs,
and a peremptory mandate.

If judgment be given for the applicant, he shall recover the
damages which he shall have sustained, as found by the jury,
or as may be determined by the Court, or referees, upon a
reference to be ordered, together with costs; and for such

damages and costs an execution may issue ; and a peremptory

mandate shall also be awarded without delay.

1. If the relator, in proceedings to procure a writ of mandate, proceeds by
petition and notice for a peremptory writ without rocuring an alternative writ,
the Court ma grant any relie consistent with e case made by the petition
and embracedy within the issue, although it may be only art of that asked in
the prayer of the petition. People v. Supervisors of San Iiliwoncisoo, 27 Cal. 665.

§ 478. Service of the writ.

The writ shall be served in the same manner as a summons
in a civil action, except when otherwise expressly directed by
order of the Court.

§ 479. Penalty for disobedience to the writ of mandate.

When a peremptory mandate has been issued and directed
to any inferior tribunal, corporation, board, or person, if it appear to the Court that any member of such tribunal, corporation, or board, or such person upon whom the writ has been
personally served, has, without j ust excuse, refused or neglected
to obey the same, the Court may, upon motion, impose a line
not exceeding one thousand dollars. In case of persistence in
a refusal of obedience, the Court may order the party to be
imprisoned for a period not exceeding three months, and may
make any orders necessary and proper for the complete enforcement of the writ. If a fine be imposed upon a Judge or oiiieer
who draws a salary from the State or county, a certified copy
of the order shall be forwarded to the Comptroller, or County
Treasurer, as the case may be, and the amount thereof may
be retained from the salary of such Judge or oiiicer. Such
Judge or officer for his willful disobedience shall also be

deemed guilty of a misdemeanor in office.

TITLE L.*

OF CONTEMPTS AND THEIR PUNISHMENT.

Sncrrox 480.
481.

482.

483.
484

485.
486.

487.

488.
489.

490.

491.
492.

493.

Oontempts, what shall be deemed.

A contempt committed in the presence of the Court may
be pumshed summaril ; when not so committed, an affidavit or statement sh be made.

A warrant of attachment to answer may issue, or notice to
show cause.

Bail may be given by a person arrested under such warrant.

SheriR' shall, upon executing the warrant, arrest and
detain the person until discharged.

Bail bond, form and condition of.

Oiiice shall return warrant and bail bond, if any.

Hearing.

Jud ent and penalty if guilty.

If e contempt is the omission to perform any act, the
person may be imprisoned until performance.

Pers;_)ns in contempt may also be indicted, if an indictable
o ense.

If the party fail to appear, proceedings.

Illness sumcient excuse for non-appearance of party
arrested. Coniinements under arrests for contem t.

Ju ents and orders in such cases final. Extent 0 pun' ent.

§ 480. Contempt, what shall be deemed.

The following acts or omission shall be deemed contempts:

1st.

Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior,

towards the Judge whilst holding Court, or engaged in his
udicial duties at chambers, or towards referees or arbitrators whilst sitting on a reference or arbitration, tending to
interrupt the due course of a trial, reference, or arbitration,

or other judicial proceeding;
2d. A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct, or violent

§ 482. A warrant of attachment may issue, or anotice to show
cause.

When the contempt is not committed in the immediat9
view and presence of the Court or Judge,a Warrant of attachment may be issued to bring the person‘ charged to
answer, or without a previous arrest, a warrant of commitment may upon notice, or upon an order to show cause, be

granted ; and no warrant of commitment shall be issued without such previous attachment to answer, or such notice or

order to show cause.

9‘ 483. ‘Bail may be given by a person arrested under such
warrant.

Whenever a warrant of attachment is issued pursuant
to this chapter, the Court or Judge shall direct by an
endorsement on such Warrant, that the person charged may
be let to bail for his appearance, in an amount to be specified

in such endorsement.
1 Amended stat. 1859, 160.

§484. S hertf shall, upon executing the warrant, arrest and
detain the person until discharged.

Upon executing the Warrant of attachment, the Sheriff
shall keep the person in custody, bring him before the Court
or Judge, and detain him until an order be made in the premises, unless the person arrested entitle himself to be discharged, as provided in the next section.

§ 485. Bail bond, form and conditions of.

When a direction to let the person arrested to bail is contained in the warrant, of attachment, or endorsed thereon, he
shall be discharged from the arrest, upon executing and delivering to the officer, at any time before the return day of
the warrant, a written undertaking, with two sufncient sureties, to the eifect that the person arrested will appear on the
return of the warrant and abide the order of the Court or
Judge thereupon; or they will pay as may be directed, the
sum specified in the warrant.

§ 486. Ojicer shall return warrant and bail band, if any.

The officer shall return the warrant of arrest and undertaking, if any, received by him from the person arrested, by
the return day specified therein.

§ 487. Hearing.

When the person arrested has been brought up or appeared, the Court or Judge shall proceed to investigate the
charge and shall hear any answer which the person arrested
may make to the same, and may examine witnesses for or
against him, for which an adjournment may be had from time

to time, if necessary.

§ 488. Judgment and penalty if guilty.

Upon the answer and evidence taken, the Court or Judge
shall determine whether the person proceeded against is
guilty of the contempt charged, and if it be adjudged that he
is guilty of the contempt, a fine may be imposed on him not
exceeding five hundred dollars, or he may be imprisoned not
exceeding five days, or both.

§ 489. If the contempt is the omission to perform any act, the
person may be imprisoned until performance.

When the contempt consists in the omission to perform an
act which is yet in the power of the person to perform, he
may be imprisoned until he have performed it, and in that
case the act shall be specif1ed in the warrant of commitment§ 490. Persons in contempt may also be indicted, if an indictable ofense.

Persons proceeded against according to the provisions of
this chapter, shall also be liable to indictment for the same
misconduct, if it be an indictable offense; but the Court before which a conviction is bad on the indictment, in passing

sentence, shall take into consideration the punishment before
inflicted.

§ 491. If a party fail to appear, proceedings.

When the warrant of arrest has been.returned served, if
the person arrested do not appear on the return day, the
Court or Judge may issue another warrant of arrest, or may
order the undertaking to be prosecuted, or both. If the undertaking be prosecuted, the measure of damages in the action
shall be the extent of the loss or injury sustained by the
aggrieved party, by reason of the misconduct for which the
warrant was issued, and the costs of the proceeding.

§-192. Illness sujicient excuse for nonappearcmce of party
arrested. Conjinement under arrests for contempt.

Whenever, by" the provisions of this chapter an officer is
required to keep a person arrested on a warrant of attachment in custody, and to bring him before a Court or Judge,
the inability from illness or otherwise of the person to at‘
tend shall be a sufficient excuse for not bringing him up;
and the officer shall not confine a person arrested upon the
warrant in a prison or otherwise restrain him of personal
liberty, except so far as may be necessary to secure his personal attendance.

§493. Judgments and orders in such cases final. Extent of
puishmet. '

The judgment and orders of the Court or Judge, made in
cases of contempt, shall be final and conclusive. The punishment shall be by fine or imprisonment, but no tine shall
exceed the sum of five hundred dollars, and no imprisonment
shall exceed the period of five days, except as provided in
section four hundred and eighty-nine.

Sxcrros 494.
495.
496.
497.
498.

499.

500.
501.
E02.
503.
504.
505.
506.
507.
508.
509.
510.
511.

512.

513.
514.

§ 494. ‘Compensation of attorneys.

allowed costs.

TITLE LI.

OF COSTS.

Compensation of attorneys. Prevailing party shall be
allowed costs.

Plaintili’s costs shall be allowed, of course, upon judgment
in his favor in certain cases.

Several actions, brought on a single cause of action, shall
carry costs in but one.

Defendant’s costs shall be allowed, of course, in certain
cases.

Costs in actions not mentioned in section four hundred and
ninety-nve. Costs not allowed when recovery is less
than two hundred dollars.

When the several defendants are not united in interest,
costs may be reversed.

Costs discretionary with the Court in certain cases.

Repealed.

Repealed.

Repealed.

Referee's fees.

Continuance ; costs may be imposed as a condition of.

Costs when a tender is made before suit is brought.

Costs in actions by, or against an administrator, etc.

Costs in a review, other than by appeal. 1

Costs paid on the commencement of an action.

Filing of an atiidavit to bills of costs.

Interest and costs shall be included by the clerk in the
judgment.

Where plaintifff is a non-resident, or foreign corporation,
defendant may require security for costs.

Justitlcation of sureties on undertaking for costs.

If such security be not given, the action may be dismissed.

Prevailing party shall be

The measure and mode of compensation of attorneys and
counselors shall be left to the agreement, express or implied,

of the parties ;

but there shall be allowed to the prevailing

party in any action in the Supreme Court, District Court,
Superior Court of the city of San Francisco, and County

Court, his costs and necessary disbursements in the action.
or specialproceeding in the nature of an action.

§ 496. Several actions brought on a single cause of action shall
carry costs in but one.

When several actions are brought on one bond, undertaking, promissory note, bill of exchange, or other instrument
in writing, or in any other case for the same cause of action,
against several parties who might have been joined as defendants in the same action, no costs shall be allowed to the
plaintifff in more than one of such actions, which may be at
his election, if the party proceeded against in the other actions were, at the commencement of the previous action
openly within this State ; but the disbursements of the plaintill‘ shall be allowed to him in each section [action].

N. Y. Code, § 304.

1. Where an action has been commenced against several defendants, and
there has been a judgment in their favor, they are not all entitled to recover
separate costs to the amount allowed by the act, but can only recover jointly,
as though there had been but one defendant. Rice v. Leonard etal.. 5 Cal. 61.

2. Possibly as the entry of such several judgments in ejectment increases
the costs, it would be ground for retaxing or apportioning them. Lick v.
Stoclodale, 18 Cal. 219.

See post, § 495.

§ 497. Defendants costs shall be allowed, of course, in cerlam
cases.

Costs shall be allowed of course to the defendant upon a

judgment in his favor in the actions mentioned in section
four hundred and ninety-five, and in a special proceeding in
the nature of an action.

N. Y. Code, § 305.

§ 498. ‘Costs in actions not mentioned in section four hundred

and ninety-fie:e ; costs not allowed, if recovery is less than two
hundred dollars.

In other actions than those mentioned in section four hundred and ninety-live, costs may be allowed or not; and if
allowed, may be apportioned between the parties, on the
same or adverse sides, in the discretion of the Court; but
no costs shall be allowed in an action for the recovery of
money or damages when the plaintifff recovers less than three
hundred dollars, nor in an action to recover the possession of
personal property, when the value of the property is less

than three hundred dollars.

‘ Amended 1865-6, 847. N. Y. Code, 6 806.

1. Costs in e uity are always in the discretion of the Court, and whether
ted or wit eld, are but as incidents to and no part of the relief sought.
3-3; 17. Daugherty et al., 25 Cal. 282.

2. In an action for dam es, where the ‘my found a verdict for plaintid’ for
fifty dollars and costs: eld, that ‘u gment could not be entered for
costs in favor ogglaintif. Shay v. Tao nme Water 00., 6 Cal. 286.

3. The plain ' can only be allowed costs when he recovers two hundred
dollars, in an action for money or damage. Costs are incident to the judgment, and cannot be given by the jury by wa of damages. Id.

4. The position of the appellant is that t e jury, having found that the
ditch was not a nuisance, the case is to be regarded, so far as the costs
are concerned, as a simple action for damages for injuries to the ropert of the plaintifff. If this position be correct, no costs were taxa le to
ei er party under the statute, the damages recovered being less than two
hundred dollars. Vatan v. Reese, 20 Cal. 90.

5. In this, case suit for damages to a mining claim and for an injunction,
plaintifffs had judgment for one hundred dollars and costs, taxed at $———, a
perpetual injunction being granted also. After the 'udgment was entered,
plaintifffs moved that costs for the trial be allowed. otion denied, except as
to the costs accrued by reason of the injunction granted. Held, that this is a
case where the allowance of costs is in the discretion of the Court below.
Esmond v. Chew et al., 17 Cal. 336.

§ 499. When the several defendants are not united in interest,
costs may be severed.

When there are several defendants in the actions mentioned in section four hundred and ninety-five, not united in
interest, and making separate defenses by separate answers,
and the plaintifff fails to recover judgment against all, the

§ 501. Amended 1853, 278; repealed 1855, 250.
§ 502. Amended 1853, 250; repealed 1855, 250.
§ 503. Amended 1853, 250; repealed 1855, 250.
§ 504. Referees’ fees.

The fees of referees shall be five dollars to each for every
day spent in the business of the reference; but the parties

may agree in writing, upon any other rate of compensation,
and thereupon such rate shall be allowed.

§ 505. ‘Cbntinuance, costs may be imposed as condition of.
When an application is made to a Court or referee to

postpone a trial, the payment of costs occasioned by the

postponement may be imposed, in the discretion of the Court

or referee, as a condition of granting the same.
’ Amended 1855, 251.

§ 506. Costs when a tender is made before suit brought.

When in an action for the recovery of money only, the defendant alleges in his answer that before the commencement
of the action he tendered to the plaintifff the full amount to

which he was entitled, and thereupon deposits in Court for
the plaintili‘ the amount so tendered, and the allegation be
found to be true, the plaintifff shall not recover costs, but
shall pay costs to the defendant.

In an action prosecuted or defended by an executor, administrator, trustee, of express trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute, costs may be recovered as in action by
and against a person prosecuting or defending in his own
right; but such costs shall, by the judgment, be made chargeable only upon the estate, fund, or party represented, unless
the Court shall direct the same to be paid by the plaintifff or
defendant, personally, for mismanagement or bad faith in the

action or defense.

N. Y. Code, 6317.

1. Executors and administrators are individuall responsible for costs recovered against them in every case; but they be allowed them in their
administration accounts, except when it a ears that the action has been
prosecuted or resisted without Just cause. icoa v. Graham, 6 Cal. 169.

§ 508. ants in a review other than by appeal.

When the decision of a Court of inferior jurisdiction in a
special proceeding is brought before a Court of higher jurisdiction for a review in any other way than by appeal, the
same costs shall be allowed as in cases on appeal, and may be
collected by execution, or in such manner as the Court may
direct, according to the nature of the case.

§ 509. ‘Costs paid on the commencement of an action.

On the commencement of an action, the plaintifff, and
on the filing of notice of appeal from final judgment
the appellant, shall pay to the Clerk three dollars, to be applied to the payment of the salary of the Judge of the Court
in which the payment is made. Each Clerk shall keep a
true and accurate account of all monies so received, and
shall pay over the same at the end of each month to the
Judge of such Court, taking duplicate receipts for each payment, one of which shall be filed by the said Clerk in his
office. On the first day of each month, the said Clerk shall de.
liver to the Auditer of the county an account of all sums
received, specifying the cases in which received, and of all

sums paid out. At the same time, a like account shall be
made out and forwarded by such Clerk to the Controller of

State of the sums paid into the District Court, and of the
sums paid out, with the other receipts of said Judge therefore.

It shall be the duty of the District Attorney, at the commencement of each month, to examine the books of said
Clerk, and if found correct, in the amount paid to the District Judge, he shall make and execute a certificate to such
Controller to that eifect; and if said books shall be found
correct in the amount paid to the County Judge, the said
District Attorney shall in like manner make and execute a
certificate to the County Auditor to that e&'ect. In paying
the salary of any District Judge, the Controller shall deduct
the amount paid to such Judge, as shown by his receipt;
and in like manner the County Auditor, in paying the salary

of any County Judge, shall deduct the amount to such Judge

as shown by his receipt.
‘Amended 1862, 88; 1863, 498.

§ 510. Filing of, and ajidavit to, bill of costs.

The party in whose favor judgment is rendered, and
who claims his costs, shall deliver to the Clerk of the
Court, within two days after the verdict or decision of the
Court, a memorandum of the items of his costs and necessary
disbursements in the action of proceeding; which memorandum shall be verified by the oath of the party, or his
attorney, stating that the items are correct, and that the dis.

bursements have been necessarily incurred in the action or
proceeding.

§ 512. Where plaintiff is a non-resident, or foreign corporation, defendant may require security for costs.

When the plaintifff in an action resides out of the State, or
is a foreign corporation, security for the costs and charges
which may be awarded against such plaintiff may be required
by the defendant. When required, all proceedings in the
action shall he stayed until an undertaking, executed by two
or more persons, be filed with the Clerk, to the effect that
they will pay such costs and charges as may be awarded
against the plaintiff by judgment, or in the progresspof the
action, not exceeding the sum of three hundred dollars. A
new or an additional undertaking may be ordered by the Court
or Judge upon proof that the original undertaking is insutiicient security, and proceedings in the action stayed until
such new or additional undertaking be executed and filed.

N. Y. Code, § 303.

1. Where defendant, December 19th, under sections nve hundred and
twelve and ilve hundred and fourteen of the Practice Act, served on plaintifff,
a non-resident. notice to give security for costs, the notice not being accompanied with an order staying proceedings, and on the next day judgment was
rendered for defendant, and pluintin appealed to the Supreme Court: Held,
on motion to dismiss the ap al, that-, a ‘tar judgment, it was too late to move
to dismiss the action; that e undertaking on appeal is sumcient security for
costs subse uently incurred, and that the motion must be denied. Comstoclc
v. Clemens, 9 Cal. 77.

§ 513. Justification of sureties on undertaking for costs.

Each of the sureties on the undertaking mentioned in the
last section shall annex to the same an affidavit that he is a
resident and householder or freeholder wit.hin the county,
and is worth double the amount specined in the undertaking,
over and above all his just debts and liabilities, exclusive of
property exempt from execution. ‘

§514. If such security be not given, the action may be dismissed.

After the lapse of thirty days from the service of notice
that security is required, or of an order for new or additional
security, upon proof thereof, and that no undertaking as required has been filed, the Court or Judge may order the
action to be dismissed.

TITLE LII.

OF‘ MOTIONS, ORDERS, NOTICES, SERVICE OF PAPERS, AND HISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

Sscrron 515. Order and motion, denned.

516. Motions, where to be made.

517. Notice of motion, at what time to be given.

518. Transfer of motions, and orders to show cause.

519. Provisions of this title not applicable to original or am

rocess.

520. Seiivice of notice of motion, when personal or otherwise.

521. Service may be made by mail when the persons reside in
dmerent places.

522. Manner of service by mail.

523. Appearance. Notices after appearance.

524. Service on non-residents. Where a party has an attorney,
service shall be on such attorney.

525. Successive actions on the same contract, etc.

526. Consolidation of several actions into one.

527. Adverse claims, actions may be brought to determine.

528. The Clerk shall keep aregister of actions.

529. Two or three referees, etc., may do any act.

530. Computation of time in this act. The time within which
any act is to be done may be extended.

531. Papers without title of the action, or with defective title,
may be valid.

532. Limitation of actions which have arisen in another Smte.

§ 515. Order and motion, defined.

Every direction of a Court or Judge made or entered in
writing, and not included in a judgment, is denominated an
order. An application for an order is a motion.

§ 516. Motions, where to be made.

Motions shall be made in the county in which the action is

brought, or in an adjoining county in the same district.

N. Y. Code, § 401.

'1. If the Judge who tried a cause goes to a coun in his district not adjoining the one in which the case was tried, to hold ourt, before the time for
nlmg amendments to the statement on motion for a new trial has expired, the
moving  rosecutes the motion with due diligence, if he brings the same

to a hearing w on the Judge returns or first holds Court in a count; adjmmr?
the one in which the case was tried. Warden v. Mendocino County, 2 Cal. 65 .

§ 517. Notice of motion, at what time to be given.

When a written notice of a motion is necessary, it shall be
given, if the Court be held in the same district with both
parties five days before the time appointed for the hearing;
otherwise ten days, but the Court, or Judge, or County Judge

may prescribe a shorter time.

N. Y. Code, 6 402. Amended 1853, 278.

1. The Court has it always in its power, in the exercise of a proper discretion, to extend the time fixed by law for filing papers in a cause. Wood v.

Forbes, 5 Id. 62.

2. If there is any ambiguity in the terms of a notice, rendering its meaning
doubtful, the construction must be most strongly against the party giving the
notice. Ca:-pentier v. Thurston, 30 Cal. 123.

3. Notice of an application b plaintiff for an injunction must be given for
the length of time presented y section five hundred and seventeen of the
Practice Act. If given for a shorter time, and defendant does not a pear, he
may treat an injunction thus obtained as granted without notice, an move to

dissolve the same under section one hundred and eighteen. Johnson v. Wide
West Mining 00., 22 Cal. 479.

§ 518. Transfer of motions, and orders to show cause.

When a notice of motion is given, or an order to show cause
is made returnable before _a Judge out of Court, and at the
time fixed for the motion, or on the return day of the order,
the Judge is unable to hear the parties, the matter may be
transferred by his order to some other Judge, before whom it
might originally have been brought.

N. Y. Code, § 404.

§ 519. Provisions of this title not applicable to original or fina
process.

Written notices and other papers, when required to be
served on the party or attorney, shall be served in the manner prescribed in the next three sections, when not otherwise
provided ; but nothing in this title shall be applicable to
original or final process, or any proceedings to bring a party
into contempt.

§ 520. Service of notice of motion, when personal or otherwise.

The service may be personal, by delivery to the party or
attorney, on whom the service is required to be made, or it
may be as follows :

1st. If upon an attorney, it may be made during his absence from his office, by leaving the notice or other papers
with his Clerk therein, or with a person having charge there’
of; or when there is no person in the office, by leaving them,
between the hours of eight in the morning and six in the
afternoon, in a conspicuous place in the office ; or if it be not
open, so as to admit of such service, then by leaving them at
the attorney’s residence, with some person of suitable age
and discretion; and if his residence be not known, then by
putting the same, inclosed in an envelope, into the post office,
directed to such attorney ;

2d. If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the notice
or other paper at his residence between the hours of eight
in the morning and six in the evening, with some person of
suitable age and discretion; and if his residence be not
known, by putting the same, enclosed in an envelope, into the
post oiiice, directed to such party.

§521. Service may be made bymail when persons reside in
dzferent places.

Service by mail may be made, where the person making
the service, and the person on whom it is to be made, reside
in different places, between which there is a regular communication by mail.
N. Y. Code, § 410.

1. A party relying upon a service of a notice by mail, must show a strict comliance with the provisions of the statute in making service. People v. Alameda
gtumpilce 00., 30 Cal. 182.

2. An affidavit of service of a notice of appeal by mail, must state that there
is a regular communication by mail between the place of residence of the person makindthe service and the residence of the person upon whom it is to be
served.

3. An aliiidavit of service of notice of appeal by mail, under section five hundred and twenty-one of the Practice Act, must show that the erson making the

service resides in a different lace from the person upon w cm the service is
made. Moore v. Bescc, April . 1868.

§ 522. Manner of service by mail.

In case of service by mail, the notice, or other paper, shall
be deposited in the post-oiiice, addressed to the person on
whom it is to be served, at his place of residence, and the
postage paid. And in such case, the time of service shall be
increased one day for every twenty-five miles distance, between the place of deposit and the place of address ; provided, that service in any case shall be deemed complete at
the end of ninety days from the date of its deposit in the

post-office.

1Amended 1861, 497.

1. When a legal notice is served by mail the distance which it travels is a
quesh'on of fact to be determined by proof. Neely v. Nagtes, 23 Cal. 152.

§ 523. Appearance. Notices after appearance.

A. defendant shall be deemed to appear in an action when
he answers, demure, or gives the plaintifff a written notice
of his appearance, or when an attorney gives notice of
appearance for him. After appearance, a defendant or his
attorney shall be entitled to notice of all subsequent proceedings of which notice is required to be given. But where a
defendant has not appeared, service of notice or papers need

not be made upon him, unless he be imprisoned for want of
bail.

§ 524. Service on non-residents. Where a party has an attorney, service shall be on such attorney.

When a plaintiff or a defendant who has appeared resides
out of the State, and has no attorney in the action or pro‘
ceeding, the service may-be made on the Clerk for him.
But in all cases where a party has an attorney in the action
or proceeding, the service of papers, when required, shall be
upon the attorney instead of the party, except of subpoenas.
of write, and other process issued in the suit, and of papers

to bring him into contempt.
N. Y. Code, §415.

§ 525. Successive actions on the same contract, etc.
Successive actions may he maintained upon the same con’

tract or transaction, whenever, after the former action, a new
cause of action arises therefrom.

§ 526. Consolidation of several actions into one.

Whenever two or more actions are pending at one time
between the same parties, and in the same Court, upon causes
of action which might have been joined, the Court may
order the actions to be consolidated into one.

N. Y. Code, § 167; Abb. Forms 1934.

1. The Supreme Court will not consolidate suits brought upon distinct
causes of action. Wallace '7. Eldridge (No. 2), 27 Cal. 498.

§ 527. Adverse claims, action may be brought to determine.

An action may be brought by one person against another,
for the purpose of determining an adverse claim which the
latter makes against the former, for money or property, upon
an alleged obligation; and also against two or more persons,

for the purpose of compelling one to satisfy a debt due to the

other, for which the plaintifff is bound as security.

Willard's Eq. Jur., 106-124.

1. Sustained. King v. Hall. 5 Cal. 82.

2. Where suit was pending in one Court on a_ note of defendant, the h no
summons had been served, and no appearance made: Held, that he d not
bring a bill in equity in another Court to enjoin the collection of the note or
to cancel it, the averment being simply that he has a defense to the
note; held, further, that this was not a proceeding under t e five hundred and
twen -seventh section of the Practice Act. Smith v. Sparrow, 13 Cal. 596.

3. . and B. executed a joint promissory note to C. B. was surety for A.
B. brought an action against 0., after the maturity of the note, to com 1 him
at once to proceed and collect the amount due on the note from A., e principal, and obtained a decree requiring C. to commence legal proceedings

against A. for the collection of the note, upon B.’s tendering to him a snmcient
amount to ay reasonable costs and expenses, or be forever debarred from
collecting t e same from B. B. deposited with the clerk and sherid’ a sun-.
cient amount to pay their costs, and tendered to C. the services of an attorney
employed by B O. refused to commence the action, and A. subsequently became insolvent. Held, that this was not a compliance with the conditions of
the decree by B., the sure . and that he was not released from his liability
on the note. Dane v. 0 mm, 24 Cal. 158.

§ 528. The Clerk shall keep a register of actions.

The Clerk shall keep among the records of the Court, a register of actions. He shall enter therein the title of the action,
with brief notes under it, from time to time, of all papers
died and proceedings had therein.

§ 529. Two of three referees, etc., may do any act.

When there are three referees, or three arbitrators, all
shall meet, but two of them may do any act which might be
done by all.

§ 530. ‘Computation of  in this act. The time within
which an act 229 to be done may be extended.

The time within which an act is to be done, as provided in
this Act, shall be computed by excluding the first day, and
including the last; if the last day be Sunday, it shall be excluded. When the act to be done relates to the pleadings in
the action, or the undertakings to be filed, or the justification
of sureties, or the service of notices, other than of appeal,
or the preparation of statements, or of bills of exceptions, or
of amendments thereto, the time allowed by this Act may be
extended, upon good cause shown, by the Court in which the
action is pending, or the Judge thereof, or in the absence of

such Judge from the county in which the action is pending,

by the County Judge; but such extension shall not exceed

thirty days, beyond the time prescribed by this Act, without

the consent of the adverse party.

‘ Amended 1861, 591. N. Y. Code, § 407.
1. When the time is imgortant, Courts will inquire into a day, or fractional
portion o!’ a day. People . Beatty, 14 ‘Cal. 666.

2. The month contemplated by the statutes of this State, is a calendar and
not a lunar month. L. d: 8. Society v. Thompson, 32 Cal. 347.

3. A public action of a summons weekly against a non-resident defendant,
commencing on the 10th da of January and endin on the 9th day of A ril,
is a publication of three fu calendar months, an the that day of the or?
within which the defendant is required to answer is the 10th of April. I .

4. If the last day of the publication of a summons is in the same week in
which the three months expires, the publication sufficient to 've the Court

jurisdiction, although this ay is less than three months from c first day of
publication. Id.

5. If some of the publications of a summons, including the last, are made

(193 Sunday in the regular issues of the paper, it does not vitiate the service.

§ 531. Papers without the title of the action, or with defective
title, may be valitl. ‘

A11 affidavit, notice, or other paper, without the title of
the action or proceeding in which it is made, or with a defective title, shall be as valid and effectual for any purpose as
if duly entitled, if it intelligibly refer to such action or pro'ceeding. '

N. Y. Code, $406. '

1. A slight error in the title of a cause, where there is no other suit grid

iggl lntween the parties, will not invalidate the notice. 11! ills v. , '3

§ 532.  of actions which have arisen in another
State.

When a cause of action has arisen in another State, or in a
foreign country, and by the laws thereof an action thereon cannot there be maintained against a person by reason of the lapse

of time, an action thereon shall not be maintained against
him in this State, except in favor of a citizen thereof, who
has held the cause of action from the time it accrued.

TITLE LIII.

or pnoonnnmos IN crvn. cases In JUSTICE8’ counrs.

CHAPTER I.— Of the parties, and the time and place of commencing actions in Justices’ Courts.

Sncrron 533. Certain of the foregoing provisions shall be applicable to
J ustlces’ Courts. '

534. Parties may appear in person or by attorney.

535. Venue of actions in Justices’ Courts.

536. Judgment by confession, venue of. ,

537. Actions in which parties voluntarily appear, venue of.

§ 533. ‘Certain of the foregoing provisions shall be applicable
to Justices’ Cburts. _

The provisions of title one of this Act, as to parties to actions, shall be applicable to actions of which a Justices’ Court
has jurisdiction; also, the provisions of this Act from section
three hundred and seventeen to section three hundred and

thirty-two, both sections inclusive, are hereby made applicable to Justices’ Courts, the word “Justice ” being substituted
for the word “Clerk,” and the word “Constable” for the

word “ Sherinl”
1Amended statutes 1860. 304.

§ 534. Parties may appear in person or by attorney.
Parties in Justices’ Courts may prosecute or defend in person, or by attorney; and any person, on the request of a party,
may act as his attorney, except that the Constable by whom

the summons or jury process was served, shall not appear or
act on the trial in behalf of either party.

§ 535. ‘Venue of actions in Justices’ Courts.
[1867—8]. No person shall be held to answer to any summons issued against him from a J ustice’s Court, in a civil action ,

in any township or city other than the one in which he shall

reside, except in the cases following:
First—When there shall be no J ustice’s Court for the township or city in which the defendant may reside, or no Justice

competent to act on the case.

aSecond——When two or more persons shall be jointly or
jointly and severally bound in any debt or contract, or otherwise jointly liable in the ‘same action, and reside in different
townships or different cities of the same county, or in different
counties, the plaintifff may prosecute his action in a Justices’
Court of the township or city in which any of the debtors or
other persons liable may reside.

Thz'rd—In cases of injury to the person, or to real or per.
aonal property, the plaintifff may prosecute his action in the
township or city where the injury was committed.

Fourth—Where personal property, unjustly taken or detained, is claim'ed, or damages therefore are claimed, the
plaintifff may bring his action in any ‘township or city in’
which the property may be found, or in which the property
was taken.

F{fth—When the defendant is a non-resident of the county,
he may be sued in any township or city wherein he may be

found.

Si:cth—When a person has contracted to perform any obligation at a particular place, and reside, in another county
or in a township or city of the same county, he may be sued
in the township or city in which such obligation is to be
performed or in which he resides; and for the purpose of
Justices’ Courts’ jurisdiction under this clause, the township or city in which the obligation is incurred shall be
deemed to be the township or city in which it is to be performed, unless there is a special contract to the contrary.

Seventh—When the foreclosure of a mortgage or the enforcement of a lien upon personal property is sought by the
action, the plaintifff’ may sue in the township or city where
the property is situated.

E'z'ghth—Any person or persons residing in the city of
San Francisco may be held to answer to any summons issued
against him or them from the Court of a Justice for any
township within the corporate limits of the city of San
Francisco, in any action or proceeding whereof Justices of
the Peace of the city or county of San Francisco have, or
may have, jurisdiction by law; provided, nothing herein

contained shall be construed to allow any {Justice of said
city or county to hold a Court in any other township than
the one for which he shall have been elected. (1)

‘Amended Statutes, 1353, 273; 1887-8, 550.

1. Where the record shows that suit was brought in township No. 4,
Sierra county, that the summons was served, by the constable of that township, in township No. 3, and it nowhere a pears either the defendant was a
resident of townshi No. 4, or a non-resi ent of the county, or that the suit
was within an of e other exceptions of the statute. (Wood's Dig. 232.
233.) The ju ent rendered is void, and not admissible as evidence of h'tle
upon a sale e thereunder. Low v. Alexander, 15 Cal. 296.

2. The jurisdiction of Justices’ Courts is special and limited, and the law
presumes nothing in favor of their jurisdiction. A party who asserts a right
under a judgment rendered in a J usu'ce's Court, must show am:-matively every

factnecessary to ‘vs the Court 'urisdiction to rsndeqsuch judgment. Rmnley
v. Howard, 23 Gag‘ 401. J _

§ 536. Judgment by confession, venue of.

Judgment upon confession may be entered up in any Justice's Court in the State specified in the confession.

1. Judgment by consent or confession, for over two hundred dollars (now
$300) in a Justice's Court, is void. Consent of ca cannot give jurisdictienwhiohtheConstimh'oadenies. Fcilkttv. ngler, 80151. 7 ;seeBradly
17. Kent, 22 Cal. 169.

§ 537. Actions in which parties volmmo-ily appear, venue of.

Justices’ Courts shall have jurisdiction of an action and
the persons of the parties thereto upon the voluntary appearance of the parties without summons, and without regard to
their residences or the place where the cause of action arose or

the subject matter of the action may exist. The plaintifff may

commence an action by summons, either in the township or

city where the contract was by its terms to be performed, or
in which the ‘defendant resides, as he may elect.

TITLE LIV. '

CHAPTER II.—Summons, arrest, attachment and chim of personal property.

Samoa 538. Commencement of actions in Justices’ Courts.
- 539. Appointment of ardians.
540. Summons, forma and substantial facts of.
541. Time within which summons shall be returned.
542. Service of summons. '
543. Service by publication.
544. Order of arrest. and arrest of defendant.
545. Ailidavit and undertakin for order of arrest.
546. A defendant arrested sh be taken before the Justice immediately.
547. The officer shall 've notice to plaintifff of the arrest.
548. The officer shall etain defendant until duly discharged.
549. Defendant may demand trial immediately.
550. Adjournment on motion of a defendant shall be granted
on filing undertaking.
551. Attachment against the property of defendant may be
made in certain cases.
552. Writ of attachment shall issue u n atlldavit.
553. Undertaking on attachment shal be required.
554. Writ of attachment, substance of. The officer may take
an undertaking instead of le 'ng.
555. Certain preceding provisions s$ apply to attachments in
55 Plglustiges’  mu
6. 'nti may rep e rso ro .
557. Amdavit in replevinv.y P8 P petty
558. The Justice shall order the officer to replevy the property
upon receiving an underta?°1i11g. "
559. Undertaking in replevin. e officer shall serve the
affidavit, order and undertaking on defendant.
560. Defendant may except to the sureties. The oilcer shall be
responsible until the sureties justify.
561. Defendant may, within two (lays, require a return of the
property.
562. Defendant’s sureties _shall justify. Oiiicer to be responsible until such justitication.
563. If the property be concealed, duty of the officer.
564. The otllcer shall deliver the property to the party entitled
thereto.
565. Claim of the property by a third party, proceedings upon.
566. The officer shall return order and affidavit within five days.
567. Qualilication of sureties in this chapter.
568. Manner of justification of sureties.
569. Examination to be annexed to the undertaking.

§ 538. Commencement of actions in Justices’ Courts.

Actions in Justices’ Courts shall be commenced by filing a
copy of the account, note, bill, bond, or instrument upon which
the action is brought, or a concise statement in writing of the
cause of action, and the issuance of a summons thereon, or

by the voluntary appearance and pleadings of the parties
without summons. In the latter case the action shall be
deemed commenced at the time of appearance.

§ 539. Appointment of guardians.

When a guardian is necessary, he shall be appointed by the
Justice, as follows:

First—If the infant be plaintifff, the appointment shall be
made before the summons is issued, upon the application of
the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years or upwards;
if under that age, upon the application of some relative or
friend. The consent in writing of the guardian to be appointed, and to be responsible for costs, if he fail in the
action, shall be first filed with the Justice.

Second—-If the infant be defendant, the guardian shall be
appointed at the time the summons is returned, or before the
pleadings. It shall be the right of the infant to nominate his
own guardian, if the infant be over fourteen years of age, and
the proposed guardian be present and consent in writing to
be appointed. Otherwise, the Justice may appoint any suit.
able person who gives such consent.

§ 540. Summons, formal and substantial facts of.

9 The summons shall be addressed to the defendant by name,
or if his name be unknown, by a fictitious name; and shall
summon him to appear before the Justice at his office, naming
its township or city, and at a time specified therein, to answer
the complaint of the plaintifff, for a cause of action therein
described in general terms, suliicient to apprise the defendant of the nature of the claim against him ; and in action
for money or damages, shall state the amount for which the
plaintifff will take judgment, if the defendant fail to appear

and answer. It shall be subscribed by the Justice before
whom it is returnable. '

§ 541. Time within which summons shall be returned.

[1867—8.] The time in which the summons shall require
the defendant to appear and answer the complaint shall be
as follows:

First-—If_ the plaintifff and defendant reside in the township where the action is brought, within ten days after the
service thereof.

Second—If the plaintifff and defendant reside out of the

township but within the county where the action is brought, within five days after the service thereof.
Thz'rd—If the plaintifff’ reside out of the township where
the action is brought and the defendant resides in said
township, within three days after the service thereof.
Fow~.th—If the defendant reside out of the county or
township in which the action is brought and plaintifff
resides in said township, within fifteen days after the ser- 2
vice thereof. The defendant may appear in the action by
demurrer or answer any time after service of summons
upon him, and shall notify the plaintifff, by written notice, of
such appearance. If any of the defendants shall fail to answer or appear in the action within the time prescribed in
the summons, such default shall be entered by the Justice in
his docket. If all the defendants shall fail to appear or answer within the time prescribed in the summons, the Justice
shall thereupon enter judgment against them for the
amount demanded in the summons, where the action is
brought upon a contract for the direct payment of money;
and in all other cases shall hear the proofs and give judgment in accordance with the pleadings and proofs. Where
all the defendants served with process shall have appeared,
or some of them have appeared and the remaining defendants have made default, the Justice may proceed to try the
cause, or, upon good cause shown by either party, may fix

the day for trial on any subsequent day not more than ten
days thereafter.

§ 542. Service of summons.

The summons shall be served by the Sheriff or a Constable of the county, as follows:

1st. If the action be against a corporation, by delivery
of a copy to the President or other head of the corporation,
or to the Secretary, Cashier, or Managing Agent thereof;
or when no such officer resides in the county, to a Director
resident therein ;

2d. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years,
by delivery of a copy to such minor, and also to his father,
mother, or guardian; or if there be none within the county,
then to any person having the care or control of such minor,
or with whom he resides, or in whose service he is;

3d. If against a person judicially declared to be of unsound mind, or incapable of conducting his own affairs, and
for whom a guardian has been appointed, by delivery of a
copy to such guardian;

4th. In all other cases, by delivery of a copy to the defendant personally.

See M304.

1. A summons issued from a Justice of the Peace at the suit of plaintiff
against Adams & Co., which was returned served by “leaving a copy thereof
with Capt. Charles D. Macy:” Held, that a judgment by default would not
bind Adams & Co., and there is nothing in the record to connect Macy with
them. Adams v. Town, 3 Cal. 248.

2. Constables may appoint deputies. flhylor 17. Brown, 4 Cal. 188.

3. A constable has no power to execute process out of his township. Love
v. Alexander, 15 Cal. 290.

§ 543. ‘Service by publication.

When the person upon whom the service is to be made resides out of the State, or has departed from the State, or cannot after due diligence be found within the State, or conceals
himself to avoid the service of summons, and the fact shall appear, by affidavit, to the satisfaction of the Justice, and it shall,
in like manner, appear that a cause of action exists against
the defendant in respect to whom the service is to be made,

§ 544. Order of arrest, and arrest of defendant.

An order to arrest the defendant may be endorsed on a summons issued by the Justice, and the defendant may be arrested
thereon by the Sheriff or Constable, at the time of serving
the summons, and brought before the Justice, and there detained until duly discharged in the following cases, arising
after the passage of this Act:

1st. In an action for the recovery of money, or damages, on
a cause of action arising upon contract, express or implied,
when the defendant is about to depart from the State, with intent to defraud his creditors; or where the action is for a
willful* injury to the person, or for taking, detaining, or injuring personal property ;

2d. In an action for a line or penalty, or for money or property embezzled, or fraudulently misapplied, or converted to
his own use by an attorney, factor, broker, agent, or clerk, in
the course of his employment as such, or by any other person
in a fiduciary capacity;

3d. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in contracting the debt, or incurring the obligation for which the
action is brought;

4th. When the defendant has removed, concealed, or disposed of his property, or is about to do so, with intent to

defraud his creditors. But no female shall be arrested in any
action.

§ 545. A_§idavz't and undertaking for order cf arrest.

Before an order for an arrest shall be made, the party
applying shall prove to the satisfaction of the Justice, by the
affidavit of himself or some other person, the facts on which
the application is founded. The plaintifff shall also execute
and deliver to the Justice a written undertaking, with two or
more sureties, to the effect that if the defendant recover judgment, the plaintifff will pay to him all costs that may be
awarded to the defendant, and all dam es which he may sustain by reason of the arrest, not excee g the sum specified

in the undertaking, which shall be at least two hundred
dollars. ‘

§ 546. A defendant arrested shall be taken before the Justice
immediately.

The defendant, immediately upon being arrested, shall be
taken to the office of the Justice who made the order, and
if he be absent or unable to try the action, or if it be made
to appear to him by the affidavit of defendant, that he
18 a material witness in the action, the oiiicer shall immediately take the defendant before the next Justice of the city
or township, who shall take cognizance of the action, and
proceed thereon, as if the summons had been issued and

the order of arrest made by him.
See 5 582.

§ 547. The ojlcer shall give notice to the plaintiff of the arrest.

The officer making the arrest shall immediately give notice thereof to the plaintifff, or his attorney or agent, and
endorse on the summons, and subscribe a certificate, stating
the time of serving the same, the time of the arrest, and of
his giving notice to the plaintifff.

§ 548. The ojicer shall detain the defendant until duly discharged. '

The officer making the arrest shall keep the defendant in
custody until duly discharged by order of the Justice.

§ 549. Defendant may demand trial immediately.

The defendant under arrest, on his appearance with the
officer, may demand a trial immediately; and upon such
demand being made, the trial shall not be delayed beyond
three hours, except by the trial of another action pending
at the time; or he may have an adjournment, and be discharged on giving bail, as provided in the next section. An
adjournment at the request of the plaintifff, beyond three

hours, shall discharge the defendant from arrest, but the _

action may proceed, notwithstanding; and the defendant
shall be subject to arrest on the execution, in the same

manner as if he had not been so discharged.
See § 582.’

§550. Adjournment on motion of defendant shall be granted
on filing undertaking.

If the defendant on his appearance demand an adjournment, the same shall be granted, on condition that he execute and file with the Justice an undertaking, with two or
more sufficient sureties, to be approved by the Justice, to
the effect that he will render himself amenable to the process of the Court during the pendency of the action, and
such as may be issued to enforce the judgment therein; or
that the sureties will pay to the plaintifff the amount of any
judgment which he may recover in the action. On filing
the undertaking specified in this section, the Justice shall
order the defendant to be discharged from custody.

§551. ‘Attachment against property of defendant may be
made in certain cases.

In an action upon a contract, express or implied, made
after the passage of this Act, for the direct payment of
money, which contract is made or is payable in this State,
and is not secured by mortgage, lien, or pledge upon real or
personal property, the plaintifff, at the time of issuing the
summons, or at any time afterwards, may have the property
of the ‘defendant attached as security for the satisfaction of
any judgment that may be recovered, unless the defendant
give security to pay such judgment, as hereinafter provided.

§ 552. ‘ Writ of attachment shall issue upon ajidavit.

A writ to attach the property of the defendant shall be
issued by the Justice, on receiving an aiiidavit by or on behalf of the plaintifff, showing the same facts as are required
to be shown by the aiiidavit speciiied in section one hundred

and twenty-one of this Act.

‘Amended 1858, 154.

1. This section was not amended so as to authorize an attachment upon a
contract made prior to the passage of this act, or against nonresidents, as in
section one hundred and twenty.

§ 553. ‘ Undermking on attachment shall be required. (a)

Before issuing the Writ, the Justice shall require a written undertaking on the part of the plaintifff, with two or
more sufficient sureties, to the effect that if the defendant
recover judgment, the plaintifff will pay all costs that may
be awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he may

sustain by reason of the attachment.

‘Amended 1858, 154; 1860, 305.

1. If a Justice issue an attachment, and take bond in a suit for a sum exceeding his jurisdiction, the proceedings are void, and no action lies on the bond.
Benedict v. Bray, 2 Cal. 251.

2. Where the undertaking or statement is conditioned to pay all damages,
etc.. not exceeding a certain sum, the attachment is unauthorized and void.
Hisler v. Carr, Jan. T. 1868.

3. The Practice Act, section five hundred and fitty—three, requires an undertaking to the effect that laintili’ will pay all damages, etc., without any limitation as to the amount. he attachment is unauthorized and void, unless issued
in substantial conformity with the provisions of the statute. Id.

§ 554. Writ of attachment, substance of. Ojicer may take an
undertaking instead of levying.
The writ may be directed to the Sheriff or any Constable

of the county, and shall require him to attach and safely
keep all the [property of the defendant] within his county,

not exempt from execution, or so much thereof as may be
sufficient to satisfy the plaintiff’s demand, the amount of
which shall be stated in conformity with the complaint,
unless the defendant give him security by the undertaking
of two sufiicient sureties, in an amount sufficient to satisfy
such demand besides costs; in which case, to take such
undertaking.

§ 555. Certain preceding provisions shall apply to attachments
in Justices’ Courts.

The sections of this act, from section one hundred and

_twenty-four to section one hundred and torty-one, both

inclusive, shall be applicable to attachments issued in Justices’ Courts; the word “ Constable ” being substituted for
the word “ Sheriff,” whenever the writ is directed to a
Constable, and the word “ Justice ” being substituted for
the word “ Judge.”

§ 556. Plaintzf may réplevy personal property.

The plaintifff, in an action to recover the possession of
personal property, may, at the time of issuing the summons,
or at any time before answer, claim the delivery of such
property to him, as provided in this chapter.

See ante, § 20a

§ 557. A jidavit in replevin.

When a delivery is claimed, an affidavit shall be made by
the plaintifff, or by some one in his behalf, showing:

1st. That the plaintifff is the owner of the property
claimed (particularly describing it), or is lawfully entitled to
the possession thereof;

2d. That the property is wrongfully detained by the
defendant;

3d. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, according
to his best knowledge, information and belief;

4th. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment or fine, pursuant to statute; or seized under an execution, on an attachment against the property of the plaintifff,
or if seized, that it is by statute exempt from such seizure;
and

5th. The actual value of the property.

§ 558. The Justice shall order to replevy the property upon
receiving an undertaking. _

The Justice shall thereupon, by an indorsement in writing upon the affidavit, order the Sheriff or a Constable of
the county to take the same from the defendant, and deliver
it to the plaintifff, upon receiving the undertaking mentioned in the following section.

§ 559. Undertaking in replevin. Theojizer shall serve the
ajidavzt, order and undertaking on the defendant.

Upon receipt of the atiidavit and order, with a written
undertaking, executed by two or more sufficient sureties,
approved by the officer, to the effect that they are bound in
double the value of the property as stated in the
affidavit for the prosecution of the action, for the return of
the property to the defendant, if return thereof be adjudged,
and for the payment to him of such sum as may, for any
cause, be recovered against the plaintifff, the officer shall
forthwith take the property described in the affidavit, if it
be in the possession of the defendant or his agent, and
retain it in his custody. He shall also, without delay, serve
on the defendant a copy of the affidavit, order and undertaking, by delivering the same to him personally, if he can
be found within the county, or to his agent from whose possession the property is taken; or if neither can be found
within the county, by leaving them at the ‘usual place of
abode of either within the county, with some person of
suitable age and discretion; or if neither have any known
place of abode within the county, by putting them into the
nearest post-office, directed to the defendant.

§560. Defendant may except to the sureties. The «mic-er
shall be responsible until the sureties justify.

The defendant may, within two days after the service of
a copy of the aiiidavit and undertaking, give notice to the
officer that he excepts to the sufliciency of the sureties; if
he fails to do so, he shall be deemed to have waived all
objection to them. When the defendant excepts, the sureties shall justify on notice before the Justice; and the othcer shall be responsible for the suiliciency of the sureties
until the objection to them is either waived, as above provided, or until they justify. If the defendant except to the
sureties, he cannot reclaim the property as provided in the
next section.

§ 561. The defendant may within two days require a return
of the property.

At any time before the delivery of the property to the plaintifff, the defendant may, if he do not except to the sureties of
the plaintifff, require the return thereof, upon giving to the
officer a written undertaking, executed by two or more sulficient sureties, to the effect that they are bound in double the
value of the property, as stated in the affidavit of the plaintin,
for the delivery thereof to the plaintifff, if such delivery be
adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as may
for any cause he recovered against the defendant. If a return
of the property be not so required within two days after the
taking and service of notice to the defendant, it shall be delivered to the plaintifff, except as provided in this chapter.

§ 562. Defendant's sureties shall justify. Ojicer to be responsible until such justification.

The defendant's sureties, upon reasonable notice to the plaintifff, shall justify before the Justice; and upon such justification, the oiiicer shall deliver the property to the defendant.
The officer shall be responsible for the defendant’s sureties until
they justify, or until the justification is completed or expressly
waived, and may retain the property until that time; but if
they, or others in their place fail to justify at the time appointed, he shall deliver the property to the plaintifff.

§ 563. If the property be concealed, duty of the oyicer.

If the property or any part thereof be concealed in a building or enclosure, the officer shall publicly demand its delivery;
and if it be not delivered, he shall cause the building or enclosure to be broken open, and takejthe property into his possession.

564. The oyicer shall deliver the property to the party entitled thereto.

When the officer shall have taken property, as in this chapter provided, he shall keep it in a secure place, and deliver it
to the party entitled thereto, upon receiving his lawful fees
for taking and his necessary expenses for keeping the same.

§ 565. Claim of the property by a third party, proceedings
upon.

If the property taken be claimed by any other person
than the defendant or his agent, and such person make affidavit of his title thereto, or right to the possession thereof,
stating the grounds of such title or right, and serve the
same upon the officer, the oilicer shall not be bound to keep
the property, or deliver it to the plaintifff, unless the plaintifff,
on demand of him or his agent, indemnify the oiiicer
against such claim, by an undertaking, executed by two
sufiicient sureties, accompanied by their aiiidavits, that they
are each worth double the value of the property as speciiied
in the affidavit of the plaintifff, over and above their debts
and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution,
and are freeholders or householders of the county; and no
claim to such property by any other person than the defendant or his agent shall be valid against the ofdcer, unless so
made.

§ 566. The ojicer shall return the order and ajidavit within
five days.
The officer shall return the order and affidavit, with his

proceedings thereon, to the Justice Within five days after taking the property mentioned therein. § 567. Qualification of sureties in this chapter.

The qualification of sureties on the several undertakings
required by this chapter, shall be as follows:

1st. Each of them shall be a resident and householder or
freeholder within the county;

2d. Each shall be worth double the amount stated in the
undertaking, over and above all his debts and liabilities,
exclusive of property exempt from_execution.

§ 568. Manrzer of justzfication of sureties.

For the purpose of justification, each of the sureties shall
attend before the Justice at the time mentioned in the notice, and may be examined on oath, on the part of the adverse party, touching his sufiiciency, in such manner as the
Justice in his discretion, may think proper. The examination shall be reduced to writing, and subscribed by the
sureties,- if required.

§ 569. Examination to be annexed to the undertaking.

If the Justice 'find the sureties sufficient, he shall annex
the examination to the undertaking, endorse his allowance
thereon, and file the same, and the officer shall thereupon be
exonerated from liability.

T I T L E L V .
CHAPTER III.—Pleadings and trial.

Sncrxox 570. Pleadings in Justices’ Courts.

571. Pleadings, in what cases to be in writing or oral.

572. Pleadings, manner of presenting and form of.

573. Complaint, contents of. ‘

574. Answer, contents of.

575. Statelmxepatl of insumcient knowledge, etc., shall be deemed

a e .
576. Manner of pleading a written instrument.
577. If a copy ol an instrument be mod, the signatures will be
deemed admitted, unless denied under oath.
578. Demurrer to pleadings in Justices’ Courts.
579. Variance between the proof and the allegations in a plead: .

580. Amggdment of pleadings.

581. Title to real estate cannot be questioned before a Justice.
Such cases shall be certified to the District Court.

582. Change of venue in certain cases. Adjournment on demand of a jury.

583. Adjournment not to exceed ten days.

584. Adjournment not to exceed four months for same cause.

585. No continuance for more than ten days shall be granted,
unless upon tiling undertaking.

586. Failure of either party to appear, efect of.

587. Trial by jury. Summo ' jury.

588. Empanneling the jury. umber necessary to compose a

589. If i9.us1;-uzmcient number of jurors do not attend, others shall
be summoned.

590. Challenges to jurors.

§ 570. Pleadings in Justices’ Charts.
The pleadings in Justices’ Courts shall be:

1st. The complaint by the plaintifff, stating the cause or
action;

2d. The answer by the defendant, stating the ground of
the defense.

1. The rule, a penal statute, must be declared upon by the party seekin a
recovery under it, does not apply to pleadin in Justices’ Courts. 0’ allagluzn v. Booth, 6 Cal. 66; Hart v. Moon. Id. 1 1.

2. Where the complaint in a Justice's Court, in addition to a good cause of
action, contains averments and prays relief respecting matmrs not within the
{zfisdiction of the Court, the action should not for that reason be dismissed,

t the Court should direct an amendment and disregard the objectionable
matter. Howard v. Valentine, 20 Cal. 282.

§ 571. Pleadings, in what cases to be in writing or oral.

The pleading shall be in writing, and verified by the oath
of the party, his agent or attorney, when the action is:

1st. For the foreclosure of any mortgage, or the enforcement of any lien on personal property;

2d. For a forcible or unlawful entry upon, or a forcible or
unlawful detention of lands, tenements, or other possessions ;

3d. To recover possession of a “mining claim.” In other

cases the pleadings may be oral or in writing.
See Amendments to the Constitution, 1862.

§ 572. Pleadings, manner of presenting, and form of.

When the pleadings are oral, the substance of them shall
be entered by the Justice in his docket; when in writing
they shall be filed in his office, and a reference to them made
in the docket. Pleadings shall not be required to be in any
particular form, but shall be such as to enable a person of '

common understanding to know what is intended.

I. It is not the policy of the law to condne parties to any nice strictness in
pleading, particularly before Justices of the Peace; accordingly, when a party,
instead of demurring for informality,’ oes to trial, it must be considered as
cured by the verdict. Cronise v. Carg ' , 4 Cal. 120.

2. Pleading in Justices’ Courts construed with great liberality; and if the
facts stated be snmcient to show the nature of the claim or defense, nothing

further is required. To reverse a judgment had in such Courts for defects in
the complaint, the defects should be such as were calculated to mislead the
adverse party. Stuart v. Lander, 16 Cal. 372.

§ 573. Complaint, contents of.

The complaint shall state in a plain and direct manner the
facts constituting the cause of action.

1. A _note. with the proper indorsements thereon. filed with a Justice of the
Peace, 18 a sumcient complaint. Hamztton v. McDonald, 18 Cal. 128.

§ 574. Answer, contents of.

The answer may contain a denial of any of the material
facts stated in the complaint, which the defendant believes to
be untrue, and also a statement, in a plain and direct manner,
of any other facts constituting a defense, or a counterclaim,
upon which an action may be brought by the defendant
against the plaintifff in a Justices’ Court.

1. An answer in a Justice's Court, denying generally the allegations of the
com laint, conforms substantially to section five hundred and seventy-four of

the actice Act. 'Sulhvan v. Cary, 17 Cal. 80.
2. Where a defendant appears for the purpose of taking advantage of

irregular summons by motion to dismiss, it does not amount to a waiver of
his ' hts so as to cure the defect. Deidesheimer v. Brown, 8 Cal. 339.

3. or does he waive his rights by answering after moving to dismiss, and
motion overruled. Id. Gray v. Hawes, Id. 56 .

4. Though the Civil Practice Act provides that pleadings in J ustices' Courts
must in some cases be veriiied, yet it does not require that the answer should
deny specihcally the allegations in the complaint; a general denial will be
suilicient. M intum v. Burr, 20 Cal. 49.

5. The objection to the jurisdiction on the ground of excess of value of the
subject in controversy, is properly taken by answer; and when so taken,
should be determined before proceeding to hear the merits of the action.

&nall v. Gwin, 6 Cal. 447.
6. Act does not require the answer to a verified complaint in an action in a

J ustice‘s Court to controvert specihcally the material allegations of such
complaint. It is snmcient if the answer deny the material allegations, either

general! or specifically. M inturn v. Burr, 20 Cal. 48.
7. A efendant in a ustice’s Court cannot set up a counterclaim for a sum

exceeding three hundred dollars. Maayleld v. Johnson. 30 Cal. 545.

§ 575. Statement of insujicient knowledge, etc., shall be deemed
a denial.
A statement in an answer that the party has not sufficient

knowledge or information in respect to a particular allegation
in the previous pleading of the adverse party to form a belief, shall be deemed equivalent to a denial.

§ 576. Manna of pleading a written instrument.
When the cause of action or counterclaim arises upon an

i account or instrument for the payment of money only, it shall

be sufficient for the party to deliver a copy of the account or
instrument to the Court, and to state that there is due to him

thereupon, from the adverse party, a specified-sum, which he
claims to recover or set off. The Court may, at the time of
the pleading, require that the original account or instrument
be exhibited to the inspection of the adverse party, and a
copy to be furnished; or if it be not so exhibited and a copy
furnished, may prohibit its being afterwards given in evidence.

1. A note, with the proper indorsementa thereon, died with a Justice of the
Peace, is a snmcient complaint. Hamilton v. McDonald, 18 Cal. 128.

2. A Justice of the Peace has no jurisdiction to pass upon a counterclaim,
or set-on‘, unless it be for such a sum as the defendant might have maintained
iéiapn action against the plaintiff in a Justice's Court. Maison v. Vaughn. 23

. 6 . ’
§ 577. 1/ a copy of an instrument be yiled, the signature thereon will be deemed admitted, unless denied under oath.

If the plaintifff annex to his complaint, or file with the
Justice at the time of issuing the summons, a copy of the
promissory note, hill of exchange, or other written obligation
for the payment of money upon which the action is brought,
the defendant shall be deemed to admit the genuineness of
the signatures of the makers, indorsers, or assignors thereof,
unless be specifically deny the same in his answer, and verify
the answer by his oath.

‘Amended 1854., 96.

§ 578. Demurrer to pleadings in Justices’ Courts.

Either party may object to a pleading of his adversary, or
to any ‘part thereof, that it is not sufficiently explicit to enable him to understand it, or that it contains no cause of
action or defense, although it be taken as true. If the Court
deem the objection well founded, it shall order the pleading
to be amended, and if the party refuse to amend, the defective pleading shall he disregarded.

1. It isnot the policy of the law to coniine parties to any nice strictness in
pleading, particularly before Justices of the Peace. Accordingly, where a
party, instead of demurring for informality, goes to trial. it must be considered as cured by the verdict. Oroniec v. Oarghill, 4 Cal. 120.

See notes under § 574.

§ 579. Variance between the proof and the allegations in a
pleading.

A variance between the proof on the trial and the allegations in a pleading, shall be disregarded as immaterial, unless

the Court be ‘satisfied that the adverse party has been misled
to his prejudice thereby.

1. Ifthe answer sets up as a defense in an action on a bill of exchange a
total failure of consideration, and the proof shows a ' failure on] , the
variance is not an available one under our practice. v. Vega, 31 C . 383.

§ 580. Amendments of pleadings.
The pleadings may be amended at any time before the

trial, to supply a deficiency or omission, when by such amendment substantial justice will be promoted. If the amendment be made after the issue, and it be made to appear to
the satisfaction of the Court, by oath, that an adjournment
is necessary to the adverse party in consequence of such
amendment, an adjournment shall be granted. The Court
may also, in its discretion, require as a condition of an amendment, the payment of costs to the adverse party, to be fixed
by the Court, not exceeding twenty dollars; but such payment shall not be required unless an adjournment is made
necessary by the amendment; nor shall an amendment be
allowed after a witness is sworn on the trial, when an adjournment thereby will be made necessary.

1. Pleadings in Justices’ Courts are not held to much strictness. Where
 avers he is administrator in fact of_ the intestate, and this is. not
demed in the answer, no further proof of p1a1ntm"s right to sue 18 requisite.‘
Liming v. Gould, 13 Cal. 598. _

2. A Justice of the Peace has the rl ht to allow a complaint to be amended
in all respects, so that the case may determined on its merits; and this,
whether the defect be in the statement of jurisdiction or any other fact. The

test liberality and indulgence should be extended in all such applications.

'nhart v. Buif et al., 11 Ca . 280.

3. This is a privile e which is never denied, whether the question be one
(()}f8iiti4r1l§d.l.cl’.‘l0n or o erwise. Grass Val. Quartz Min. 00. v. Stackhouse, 6

-3.1 It is error to) it-gfuse to allowhacplaintifffmtg strike hqlqltz a  for damages,
wi out regard epurpose w i may ' uence ' .

5. Amendments should be readily allowed whenever they will tend to the
furtherance of justice, and the greatest liberality in this should be
extended to pleadings in Justices’ Courts. Butler v. King, 10 al. 342.

§ 581. ‘Title to real esmte cannot be questioned before a Justice. Such cases shall be eertt/ied to a District Court.

The parties shall not be at liberty to give evidence upon

any question which involves the title or possession of real

property, or the legality of any tax, impost, assessment, toll,
or municipal tine, nor shall any issue presenting such question be tried by said justice ; and if it appear, from the plaintiil"s own showing on the trial, or from the answer of the
defendant, verified by his oath, that the determination of the
action will necessarily involve the question of title or possession to real property, or the legality of any tax, impost,
assessment, toll, or municipal fine, the Justice shall suspend
all further proceedings in the action and certify the pleadings, or if the pleadings be oral, a transcript of the same,
from his docket to the District Court of the County, and from

the time of filing such pleadings or transcript with the
County Clerk, the District Court shall have over the action

the same jurisdiction as if it were commenced therein.

‘Amended 1863-4, 117.

1. Where in a suit in a Justice's Court for damages to real property, the
answer put in issue the ownership of the roperty, and the defendant moved
to transfer the case to the District Court or trial, which motion was refused;
and after trial before the Justice, judgment was rendered for plaintifff, and
the defendant ap ed to the county Court, where the judgment was set
aside, and an 0 er made transferring the case to the District Court, where,
after trial, plaintifff  had judgment: Held, that the coun Court had
authority, under sections nve hundred and eighty-one and three undred and
sixty-seven of the Practice Act, to transfer the case to the District Court; that
the sheet of the appeal to the County Court was to vest it with authority to
make all orders necessary for the determination of the case; and as the case
was to be tried de now, and the County Court was incompetent, under the

statute, to Cl? it, the transfer to the District Court was necessary. Oullen v.
' , 1 Cal. 67.

2. If upon the filing of the defendant's verified answer in a J ustice’s Court
it aplpears in the answer that the determination of the action will necessarily
invo vs a question of title to real property, the cause should be transferred to a
District Court, and when so transferred, the District Court obtains complete

jurisdiction in the premises. Doherty v. Thayer, 31 Cal. 140.

§ 582. ‘ Change of venue in certain cases. Adjournment on
demand of a jury.

If, at any time before the trial, it appear to the satisfaction of the Justice before whom the action is brought, by
aliidavit of either party, that such justice is a material witness for either party, or if either party make affidavit that
he has reason to believe, and does believe, that he cannot
have a fair and impartial trial before such Justice, by rea»
son of the interest, prejudice, or bias of the Justice, the
action may be transferred to some other Justice of the
san1e or a neighboring township; and in case a jury be demanded, and affidavit of either party is made that he cannot
have a fair and impartial trial, on account of the bias or
prejudice of the citizens of the township against him, the
action may be transferred to some other Justice of the
Peace in the county; but only one transfer shall be allowed
to either party. The Justice to whom an action may be
transferred by the provisions of this section, shall have and
exercise the same jurisdiction over the action as if it had
been originally commenced before him. The Justice or-=.
dering the transfer of the action to another Justice, shall
immediately transmit to the latter, on payment by the party

applying of all the costs that have accrued, all the papers
in the action, together with a certified transcript from his
docket of the proceedings therein. The Justice to whom
the case is transferred shall issue a notice, stating the time
and place when and where the trial will take place, which
notice shall be served upon the parties by any officer authorized to serve process in a J ustice’s Court, or by any

person specially deputized by the Justice for that purpose, at
east one day before the tria . ‘
‘Amended 1353, 279 ; 1863, 502.

Upon the return day of the summons, if a jury be
required, or, if the Justice be actually engaged in other
official business, he may adjourn the trial without the consent of either party, as follows:

1st. When a party who is not a resident of the county
is in attendance, the adjournment not to exceed twentyfour hours; when the defendant in attendance is under
arrest, the adjournment not to exceed three hours;

2d. In other cases, not to exceed five days.

1. Where a Justice is interested in the event of a suit, the statute requires
that he should transfer the case before another Justice. Lame v. Gaskms, 5

Cal. 507.
2. A Justices’ Court to which a case has been transferred from another similar Court, ma ' , for cause shown, change the venue. The People a:
rel. Hayley v. Egfd, 22 Cal. 34.

§583. ‘Aciiournment not to exceed ten days for want of material testimony.

The trial may be adjourned by consent, or upon
application of either party, without the consent of the
other, for a period not exceeding ten days, (except as provided in the next section), as follows:

1st. The party asking the adjournment shall, if required
by his adversary, prove by his own oath, or otherwise, that
he cannot, for want of material testimony, which he ex
pects to procure, safely proceed to trial, and shall show in
what respect the testimony expected is material, and that
he has used due diligence to procureuit, and has been unable to do so;

2d. The party asking the adjournment shall also, if
required by the adverse party, consent that the testimony

of any witness of such adverse party, who is in attendance,
be then taken by deposition before the Justice, which shall
accordingly be done, and the testimony so taken may be
read on the trial, with the same effect, and subject to the
same objections as if the witness were produced; but such
objections shall be made at the time of taking the deposition;

3d. The Court may also require the moving party to
state, upon aftidavit the evidence which he expects to obtain, and if the adverse party thereupon admit that such
evidence would be given, and that it be considered as actually given on the trial, or offered and overruled as improper,

the trial shall not be postponed.
‘Amended 1854, 96.

§ 584. ‘Adjournment not to exceed four months, for same
cause.

An adjournment may be had, either at the time of joining
issue, or at any subsequent time to which the case may
stand adjourned, on application of either party, for a period
longer than ten days, but not to exceed four months, from
the time of the return of the summons, upon proof by the
oath of the party, or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the
Justice, that such party cannot be ready for trial before
the time to which he desires an adjournment, for want of
material evidence, particularly describing it, and that the
delay has not been made necessary by any act or negligence
on his part since the action was commenced; that he has
used due diligence to procure the evidence, and has been
unable to do so, and that he expects to procure the evidence
at the time stated by him: provided, that if the adverse
party admit that such evidence would be given, and consent
that it may be considered as given on the trial, or offered

or overruled as improper, the adjournment shall not be had.
‘Amended 1854, 96.

§ 585. No continuance for more than ten days shall be granted,
unless upon filing undertaking.

No adjournment shall be granted for a period longer
than ten days, upon the application of either party, except

upon condition that such party file an undertaking, with
sureties, to be approved by the Justice, to the effect that

they will pay to the opposite party the amount of any judgment which may be recovered against the party applying.

§ 586. Failure of either party to appear, ejects of.

[1867-8.] If either party shall fail to appear at the time
fixed for trial, or at the time to which the trial has been
adjourned, the trial may proceed at the request of the adverse party, and judgment shall be rendered in conformity
with the pleadings and proofs.

587. Trial by jury. Summoning jurors.

A trial by jury shall be demanded at the time of joining
issue; and shall be deemed waived if neither party then demand it. When demanded, the trial of the case shall be
adjourned, until a time and place fixed for the return of the
jury. If neither party desire an adjournment, the time and
place shall be determined by the Justice, and shall be on
the same day, or within the next two days. The jury shall
be summoned upon an order of the Justice, from the citizens of the city or township, and not from the bystanders.

§ 588. Empanneling a jury. Number necessary to compose a
jamAt the time appointed for the trial, the Justice shall pro- ceed to call, from the jurors summoned, the names of the

‘persons to constitute the jury for the trial of the issue. The
jury, by consent of the parties, may consist of any number
not more than twelve nor less than three.

§ 589. If a sujicient number of jurors do not attend, others
shall be summoned.

If a sufiicient number of competent and indifferent jurors
do not attend, the Justice shall direct others to be summoned from the vicinity, and not from the bystanders,

sufiicient to complete the jury.

§ 590. Challenges of jurors.
Either party may challenge the jurors. The challenges

shall be either peremptory, or for cause. Each party shall
be entitled to three peremptory challenges. Either party
may challenge for cause, on any grounds set forth in section
one hundred and sixty-two. Challenges for cause shall be
tried by the Justice in a summary manner, who may examine the juror challenged, and Witnesses.

T I T LE L V I .
CHAPTER IV.—Judgment and execution.

Sncnon 591. Judgment of dismissal entered in certain cases without

prejudice.
592. Judgment for plaintin‘ by default.
593. Upon issue joined, the Justice shall try the cause and
render judgment.
594. Entry of judgment, time and manner of.
, 595. If the sum found due exceeds the jurisdiction of the
Justice, the excess may be remitted.
596. Ofer to compromise before trial.
597. Judgment when the defendant is subject to arrest.
598. Costs shall be added to the verdict.
599. Execution issued by the Justice, except when it is to run
out of the county. Judgment liens, how created.
600. Execution may issue at any time within five years.
601 Execution, contents of.

602.. Duty of officer receiving execution. Supplementary proceedings.

§ 591. Judgment of dismissal enteml in certam cases without ,

prejudice.
Judgment that the action be dismissed without prejudice

to a new action, may be entered with costs in the following'

08888 1

1st. When the plaintifff voluntarily dismisses the action
before it is finally submitted;

2d. When he fails to appear at the time specified in the

summons, or upon adjournment, or within one hour thereafter;

3d. When it is objected at the trial, and appears by the
evidence, that the action is brought in the wrong county, or
township, or city; but if the objection be taken and overruled, it shall be cause only of reversal on appeal, and shall

not otherwise invalidate the judgment; if not taken at the
trial, it shall be deemed waived, and shall not be cause of

reversal.

1. Suit brought in Justice’s Court for township No. 5. service on defendant
in township No. 3, by Constable of township No. 3. Defendant appears, and
before filing answer, moves to dismiss the action on the grounds: lst. That
the Court has no jurisdiction of the person of defendant. 2d. That the return
of the officer is insumcient to give jurisdiction. Held, that the motion was
properly denied; that defendant could not thus defeat the whole case in limine
upon the insudlciencies of the record, though the action might be thus dismissed if the facts were shown to be such that the record could not be amended.
Hamilton v. L{cDona1d, 18 Cal. 128.

2. In case of a dismissal of an action by a Justice of the Peace for nono
appearance of the plaintifff, the judgment for defendant operates as a dissolution of an attachment, although the Justice reinstates the case, and the parties
appear and try it. 0’0onner v. Blalce, 27 Cal. 312.

§ 592. Judgment for plaintgf by default.

When the defendant fails to appear and answer, judgment
shall be given for the plaintifff, as follows :

lst. When a copy of the account, note, bill, or other
obligation upon which the action is brought-, was filed with
the Justice at the time the summons was issued, judgment
shall be given without further evidence, for the sum specified
in the summons;

2d. In other cases, the Justice shall hear the evidence of
the plaintifff, and render judgment for such only sumas shall
appear by the evidence to be just ; but in no case exceeding
the amount specified in the summons.

1. A judgment by default rendered in a J ustice’s Court cannot be attacked
collaterally as void for want of jurisdiction of the person of the defendant-—
who was a resident of the count , but not of the township in which the suit was
instituted—when there appears in the record a certificate, indorsed on the summons by the oiiiccr serving it, and filed with the Justice who acted on it, that
the summons was served on the defendant in the township in which suit was
commenced. Fagg v. C’le-ments, 16 Cal. 389.

2. Such certillcats is sutiicient,  facts, to establish the jurisdiction of
the Justice. The objection to the jurisdiction, that defendant did not reside in
the township where suit was brought, should have been taken at the trial ; and
as defendant failed to appear, the judgment is conclusive. Id.

3. Where a summons was issued and served in the morning, by which the
defendants were cited to appear and answer the complaint in the Court of First
Instance, at ten o’clock, and judgment was rendered against them at nine
o’clock in the morning of the same day : Held, that the judgment was irregular, and should be reversed; notwithstanding the Court olfered them permission to come in at a subsequent day and make their defense. Parlcer v. Sheppard, 1 Cal. 131.

§ 598. Upon issue joined, the Justice shall try the cause and
render judgment.

Upon issue joined, if a jury trial he not demanded, the

‘Justice shall hear the evidence, and decide all questions of
fact and of law, and render judgment accordingly.

§ 594. ‘Entry of judgment, time and manner of.

Upon a verdict, the Justice shall immediately render
judgment accordingly. When the trial is by the Justice,
judgment shall be entered immediately after the close of
the trial, if the defendant has been arrested and is still in
custody; in other cases it shall be entered within four days
after the close of the trial. If the action be on a contract
against two or more defendants, and the summons is served
on one or more, but not on all, the judgment shall be entered up only against those who were served, or have
voluntarily appeared, if the contract he a several or a joint
and several contract; but if the contract be a joint contract
only, the judgment shall be entered up against all the defendants, but shall only be enforced against the joint prop‘
erty of all, and the individual property of the defendants
served, or who have voluntarily appeared in the action. In
an action on a contract or obligation in writing for the direct payment of money, made payable in a specified kind of
money or currency, judgment for the plaintifff, whether the
same be by default or after verdict, may follow the contract or obligation, and be made payable in the _kind of
money or currency speciiied__therein.

Amended 1854, 97; 1863, 690. '

1 . When the contract sued on is a joint contract of two defendants, and
judgment is entered up against one only, it is not such error as renders the
judgment void, so that it can be attacked in a collateral proceeding. Seaver
‘V. itzgerald, 32 Cal. 86.

2. A Justice's Court is not a Court of record; it is an inferior Court, and
its jurisdiction must be shown amrmatively b a party relying upon or claiming any right under its judgments; but paro evidence is admissible to show .
that the defendant was within its jurisdiction. Jolley v. Foltz, Oct. T. 1867.

§ 595. If the sum found due exceed the jurisdiction of the Justice, the excess may be remitted.

__ When the. amount found due to either party exceeds the
sum for which the Justice is authorized to enter judgment,
such party may remit the excess, and judgment may be rendered for the residue.

§ 596. Ofer to compromise before trial.

If the defendant at any time before the trial, o&'er in writing
to allow judgment to be taken against him for a specified sum,
the plaintifff may immediately have judgment therefore, with
the costs then accrued; but if he do not accept such offer
before the trial, and fail to recover in the action a sum equal
to the offer, he shall not recover costs, but costs shall be adjudged against him, and if he recover, deducted from his
recovery. But the offer and failure to accept it shall not be
given in evidence to affect the recovery otherwise than as to
costs, as above provided.

§ 597. Judgment when the defendant is under arrest.

When a judgment is rendered in a case where the defendant is subject to arrest and imprisonment thereon, it shall be
so stated in the judgment and entered in the docket.

§ 598. Costs shall be added to the verdict.

When the prevailing party is entitled to costs by this
chapter, the Justice shall add their amount to the verdict;
or in case of a failure of the plaintifff to recover, or in case of
a dismissal of the action, shall enter up judgment in favor of
the ‘defendant for the amount of such costs.

§599. ‘Execution issued by the Justice, except when it is to
judgment liens, how created.

The Justice, on demand of the party in whose favor judgment is rendered, shall give him a transcript thereof, which
may be filed and docketed in the office of the Clerk of the
county where the judgment was rendered. The time of the
receipt of the transcript by the County Clerk shall be noted
by him thereon, and entered in the docket; and from that
time executions may be issued by the County Clerk on such
judgments to the Sheriff of any other county of the State, in
the same manner as upon judgments recovered in the higher
Courts. All process upon judgments recovered in Justices’
Courts, to be executed within the same county, shall be
issued by the Justice or his successors in office. No judgment rendered by a Justice of the Peace shall create any
lien ‘upon any lands of the defendant, unless a transcript
of such judgment, certified by the Justice, be filed and

recorded in the office of the Recorder. When such transcript
is to be filed in any other county than that in which the Justice resides, such transcript shall be accompanied with the
certificate of the County Clerk as to the official character of
the Justice. When so filed and recorded in the office of the
Recorder for any county, such judgment shall constitute a
lien upon, and bind the lands and tenements of the judgment
debtor, situated in the county where such transcript may be
filed and recorded, in favor of such judgment creditor, as if
such judgment had been rendered in the District Court of

such county.

1 Amended 1854, 97.

1. Real estate of a judgment debtor, situated in the county where the judgment before the J ustice of the Peace was rendered, may be sold on execution

n the ju ent, whether a transcript of the judgment be filed in the office
the Recor er of such county or not. Campbell v. Wiclcwane, 19 Cal. 145.

2. No tiling of such transcript with the Recorder is necessary, except as to
property situated in a diferent county. With reference to property in the
same county, the provisions for the enforcement of an execution upon a judgpident in a J ustices’ Court are the same as those relating to District Courts.

3. A judgment rendered by a Justice of the Peace does not become a lien
on the real estate of the judgment debtor until a copy of the judgment, certined by the Justice, has been recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
Baglegly. Ward, 27 Cal. 370.

4. e Ming and recording in the Recorder's office of the copies of docket
entries, made by a Justice 0 the Peace, does not constitute the judgment a
lien on the real estate of the judgment debtor. Id. ,

5. The tiling of the transcript of a jud ent of a Justice of the Peace with,
and the docketing of it by the County C erk, do not make it a judgment or
record of the District Court. People v. Doc, 31 Cal. 220.

§ 600. Execution may issue at any time within five years.
Execution for the enforcement of a judgment in a Justice's
Court, may be issued, on the application of the party entitled

thereto, at any time within five years from the entry of judgment.

§ 601. Execution, contents of.

The execution, when issued by a Justice, shall be directed
to the Sheriff or to a Constable of the county, and subscribed
by the Justice by whom the judgment was rendered, or by
his successor in office, and shall bear date the day of its
delivery to the officer to be executed. It shall intelligibly
refer to the judgment, by stating the names of the parties,
and the name of the Justice before whom, and of the county,
and the township, or city where, and the time when it was
rendered; the amount of judgment, if it be for money; and
if less than the whole is due, the true amount due thereon.
It shall contain, in like cases, similar directions to the Sheriii’ or Constable as required by the provisions of Title VII,

of this Act, in an execution to the Sheriff.
1. Under sections six hundred and one and six hundred and two of the Practice

mg, ‘may serve an execution out of his township. Lafontaine v.
§ 602. ‘Duty of ojicer receiving execution. Supplementary
proceedings. .

The Sheriff or Constable to whom the execution is directed, shall proceed to execute the same in the same manner as the Sheriff is required by the provisions of Title
VII, of this Act, to proceed upon executions directed’ to
him; and the Constable, when the execution is directed to
him, shall be vested for that purpose with all the powers of
the Sheriff, and, after issuing an execution, and either before or after its return, (if the same be returned unsatisfled
either in whole or in part), the judgment creditor shall be
entitled to an order from the Justice, requiring the judgment debtor to attend at a time to be designated in the
order, and answer concerning his property before such Justice, and the attendance of such debtor may be enforced
by the Justice. On his attendance, such debtor may be examined under oath concerning his property, and any per.
son alleged to have in his hands property, monies, effects
or credits of the judgment debtor may also be required to
attend and be examined, and the Justice may order any

property in the hands of the judgment debtor, or any
other person, not exempt from execution, belonging to such
debtor, to be applied towards the satisfaction of the judgment; and the Justice may enforce such order by imprisonment until complied with, but no judgment debtor or other

person shall be required to attend before the Justice out of
the county in which he resides.

‘Amended 1854, 98.

1. Where property is levied on by a constable or sherin, by virtue of an
attachment or execution, as the property of the defendant in e suit, and is
claimed by a third party, and 8] is called to try the right of property under the claim, and the verdict of e jury is against the claimant, this verdict
is no protection to the officer in suit brought against him b the claimant,
n3; is it admissible in evidence as a defense. Sheldon at al. v. is, 28 Cal.
1

2. Under sections six hundred and one and six hundred and two of the

Practice Act, a constable magi;-erve an execution out of his township. Infantainc v. Greene et a1., 17 Cal.

TITLE LVII.

CHAPTER V.—G'eneral provzlsions.

81011011 603. The provisions of this act referred to in this title only shall
apply to Justices’ Courts.

604. Justices’ docket, contents of. '

606. Entries therein shall be under the title of the action.
The docket shall be primary evidence of the facts it
contains.

606. An index to the docket shall be 1: t.

607. Dockets shall be delivered by the ustice to his successor,
or to the county clerk.

608. A Justice maymissue execution, or other process, upon the
docket of ' predecessor.

609. Successor of a Justice, who shall be deemed.

610. If two Justices might be deemed successor, the County
Judge shall designate one.

611. Blanks shall be filled in all papers issued by a Justice, except sub nas.

612. In case of 'sabili of a Justice, another Justice may attend on his be .

613. The Justice may depute a person to serve a summons or
execution; Justice liable for acts of such deputy.

614. Authori and obligtions of depu .

615. A consta le, after e e iration o his term, may execute
nnal process previou y commenced.

616. Contem ts, a Justice may furnish for.

617. Pmcee£ngs and punishment for contempts.

618. The conviction shall be entered in the docket.

619. Justices may issue subpmnas and final process to any part
of the counéy.

620. Provisions of itle XI applicable to Justices’ Courts.

Samoa 621. Mining claims, actions concerning, shall be governed by
theusuagesof thebaror ' ' .
622. A nelwlv trial may be granted in certain cases.
623. App ‘cation or new tria .
624. Ap8:als frgx: a judgment of a Justice may be taken to a
W

un urt.
625. Party appealing on uestions of law alone shall prepare
a statement. Se ement of statement.
626. If the appeal he on questions of fact, or law and fact,no
statement need be made.
627. Upon the agopeal the Justice shall transmit the case to the
County urt.
628. Undertaking on a  Justidcation of sureties.
629. On  undertsgng, execution shall be stayed.
630. Repeal .

631. Costa allowed to prevailing party.

632. Repealed.

633. Money collected by constable or sherii shall}be paid over

to the Justice.
634. Justice may require security for costs.
635. Preceding sections applicable to Justices’ Courts.

§ 603. ‘The provisions of this Act referred to in this title only
shall be applicable to Justices’ Courts.

Those provisions of this act which are referred to
in this title, and no other, shall, in addition to the
provisions embraced in this title, be applicable to Justices’ Courts and proceedings therein.
‘Amended 1853, 280; 1854, 98.

§ 604. ‘Justices’ docket, contents of.

Every Justice shall keep a book denominated a “ docket,”
in which he shall enter:

1st. The title of every action or proceeding;

2d. The object of the action or proceeding, and if a sum
of money be claimed, the amount of the demand; '

3d. The date of the summons, and the time of its return;
and if an order to arrest the defendant be made, or a writ
of attachment be issued, a statement of these facts;

4th. The time when the parties or either of them appear,
or their non-appearance, if default be made; a minute of
the pleadings and motions; if in writing, referring to
them; if not in writing, a concise statement of the material parts of the pleadings, and of all motions made during
the trial by either party, and his decisions thereon;

5th. Every adjournment, stating on Whose application,
whether on oath, evidence, or consent, and to what time ;

6th. The demand for a trial by jury, when the same is
made, and by whom made, the order for the jury, and the

time appointed for the trial and return of the jury ;

7th. The names of the jury, who appear and are sworn,
the names of all witnesses sworn, and at whose request ;

8th. The verdict of the jury, and when received; if the
jury disagree and are discharged, the fact of such disagreement and discharge ;

9th. The judgment of the Court, specifying the costs included and the time when rendered;

10. The issuing of the execution, when issued and towhom,
the renewals thereof, if any, and when made, and a statement of any money paid to the Justice, and when and by
whom;

11th. The receipt of a notice of appeal, if any be given,
and of the appeal bond, if any be filed.

‘Amended 1856, 197.

1. The failure of a Justice of the Peace to state in his docket that the summons was returned “ served,” will not vitiate the ju ent on appeal. The
fact of service may be shown by the return of the 0 car on the summons.
Denmark v. Liming, 10 Cal. 93.

2. The record of the proeeedin in a Justice's Court, in which judgment
was rendered, must amrmatively ow that the suit was brought in the proper
township, or the proceedings are coram non judice and void; and the failure
of defendant, after summons served, to appear and object that suit was

brought in the wrong township, is no waiver of the objection. Lowe v. Alec!»ander, 15 Cal. 296.

3. The recital in the docket of a Justice, who had rendered judgment, that
the summons was “ returned duly served," is of no weight to prove proper
service of the summons. The return of the officer is as much a part of the
record as the docket itself ; and if the return fail to show sumcient service,
the recital being based on the return alone, amounts to nothing more than
the opinion of the Justice, and cannot be relied on to give validity to the
judgment. Id.; Rowley v. Howard, 23 Id. 403.

§605. Entries therein shall be under the title of the action.
The docket shall be primary evidence of the facts it contains.

The several particulars of the last section specified shall
be entered under the title of the action to which they relate,
and at the time when they occur. Such entries in a J ustice’s
docket, or a transcript thereof, certified by the Justice or his
successor in office, shall be primary evidence to prove the
facts so stated therein.

1. A Justice’s docket is only primary evidence, and its omissions may be
supplied from other sources when necessary. Blair v. Hamilton, 32 Cal. 49.

§ 606. An index to the docket shall be kept.

A Justice shall keep an alphabetical index to his (locket,
in which shall be entered the names of the parties to each
judgment, with a reference to the page of entry. The names
of the plaintifffs shall be entered in the index, in the alpha-betical order of the first letter of the family name.

§ 607. ‘Dockets shall be delivered by the Justice to his successor, or to the County Clerk.

It shall be the duty of eve y Justice of the Peace, upon
the expiration of his term of office, to deposit with his successor his oilicial dockets and all papers filed in his office, as
well his own as those of his predecessors, or any other which
may be in his custody to be kept as public records. If the
office of a Justice become vacant by his death or removal
from the township or city, or otherwise, before his successor
is elected and qualified, the docket and papers in possession
of such Justice shall be deposited in the office of some other

, Justice in the township, to be by him delivered to the successor of said Justice: and while in his possession, he may
issue execution on a judgment there entered and unsatisiied,
in the same manner and with the same effect as the Justice
by whom the judgment was entered might have done. If
there be no other Justice in the township, then the dockets
and papers of such Justice shall be deposited in the office of
the County Clerk of the county, to be by him delivered to

the successor in office of the Justice.
1 Amended 1863, 232.

§ 608. ‘A Justice may issue execution, or other process, upon
the docket of his predecessor.

Any Justice with whom thetdocket of his predecessor is
deposited shall have and exercise over all actions and proceedings entered in the docket of his predecessor, the same
jurisdiction as if originally commenced before him. In
case of the creation of a new county, or the change of the
boundary between two counties, any Justice into whose
hands the docket of a Justice formerly acting as such within
the same territory may come, shall for the purposes of this

section, be considered the successor of said former Justice.
‘Amended 1855, 304 ; 1863, 232.

§ 609. Successor of a Justice, who shall be deemed.

The Justice elected to fill a vacancy shall be deemed the ’
successor of the Justice whose oiiice became vacant before
the expiration of a full term. When a full term expires,
the same or another person elected to take oiiice in the same
township or city, from that time shall be deemed the successor.

§ 610. If two Justices might be deemed successors, the Cbunty
Judge shall designate one.

When two or more Justices are equally entitled under
the last section to be deemed the successors in oiiice of the
Justice, the County Judge shall, by a certificate subscribed
by him and filed in the oiiice of the County Clerk, designate
which Justice shall be the successor of a Justice going out
of office, or whose office has become vacant.

§ 611. Blanks shall be filled in all papers issued by a Justice,
except subpoenas.

The summons, execution, and every other paper made or
issued by a Justice, except a subpoena, shall be Iiled without a blank left to be filled by another, otherwise it shall
be void.

§ 612. In case of disability’ of a Justice, another Justice may
attend on his behalf.

In case of the sickness, or other disibility, or necessary
absence of a Justice on a return of a summons, or at the
time appointed fora trial, another Justice of the same township or city may, at his request, attend in his behalf, and
shall thereupon become vested with the power, for the time
being, of the Justice before whom the summons was returnable. In that case, the proper entry of the proceedings be- '

fore the attending Justice, subscribed by him, shall be made
in the docket of the Justice before whom the summons was
returnable. If the case be adjourned, the Justice before

whom the summons was returnable may resume jurisdiction.

§613. ‘The Justice may depute a person to serve a summons
or subpoena. Justice liable for acts of such deputy. ,

The Justice may, at the request of a party, on good cause
being shown therefore under oath, but not otherwise, specially depute any discreet and responsible person of suit.able age, and not interested in the action, or related to’ such
Justice or party, to serve a summons or execution‘, with or
without an order to arrest the defendant, or with or without a writ of attachment. The said Justice shall be liable
on his oiiicial bond for all otiicial acts of the person so
deputed; such deputation shall be in writing on the process and shall state the reason. thereof.
‘Amended 1860, 305; 1865-6, 467.

$614. Authority and obligations of a deputy.

The person so deputed shall; have the authority of. a Canstable in relation: to the service, execution-,. and return of
such process, and shall be subject to the. same obligations.

§615. A Constable, after the expiration of his term, may
execute papers previously commenced.

A Constable, notwithstanding the expiration of— his term
of office, may proceed and complete the execution of all
final process which he has begun to execute, in the same
manner as if he still continued in office, and his sureties
shall be liable to the same extent.

§ 616. Contempts, a J usticefmay» punish for;

A Justice may punish as for contempt, persons guilty"-of
the following acts, and‘ no other:

1"st:. Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior towards the Justice while holding the Court, tending to interrupt the due course of ‘ a trial, or other judicial proceeding;

2d. A breach of" the peace, boisterous conduct, or violent
disturbance in the presence of the Justice, or in the immediate vicinityof the-Court, held by him; tending to interrupt
the due course of ’ a trial or other judicial proceeding;

3d. Disobedience or resistanceto the execution of a lawful order, or process made or issued by him;

4th. Disobedience to as subpmnaduly served, or refusing
to be sworn, or answer as a witness;

5th. Rescuing any person orpr'op‘er't‘y in the custody of
any oiiicer, by virtue of an order or process of the Court
held by him.

§ 617. Proceedings and punishments for contempts.‘

When a contempt is committed in the immediate view
and presence of the Justice, it’ may be punished summarily,
for which an order‘ shall be made re‘citiug the facts, as occur-‘
ring in such immediate view and presence, adjudging that
the person proceeded against is thereby  of a‘ contempt, and that he be punished‘ as therein prescribed.
When the contempt is not committed in‘ the immediate’
view and presence of the Justice, a warrant of arrest may
be issued by such’ Justice, on which the person so guilty
may be arrested and brought before the Justice immediately, when an opportunity to be heard in his defense or
excuse shall be given. The Justice may thereupon dis-‘
charge him, or may convict him of the offense. A Justice
may punish for contempts, by line or imprisonment, or
both’; such fine not to exceed in any case‘ one hundred dollars, and such imprisonment one day.

§ 618'. The conviction shall" be entered in the docket.
The conviction specifying particularly the oifense’ and

the judgment thereon, shall‘ be’ entered‘ by_the Justice in his
docket.‘

§ _619; ‘Justices may issue  and jinal process to’ any
part of the county.

Justices of the Peace may issue subpoenas in any action
or proceeding’ in the Courts held by them, and final process,
or [on] any judgment recovered ther”ein,to‘ any part of the
county. A Justice of the Peace may issue‘ summons‘ to any
person, a resident of the proper township, to appea'r’before'
him, athis oiiice, toact as interpreter in any action or proceedings in the Courts held by him. Such summons shall
beserved and returned in like manner as asubpoena issued
by a Justice. Any person sosummoned shall, for a failure
to attend at the time and place named in thesummons, be

deemed guilty of a contempt, and may be punished accordlngly.
‘Amended 1863, 496.

1. Section four hundred of the Practice Act provides that where a Judge
trying a cause may be called as a witness, he may order the trial to take place
before another Judge; and section six hundred and twenty of the same act
extends the like provisions to Courts of Justices of the Peace. Davis v. Gallon, 2 Cal. 360.
2. Section six hundred and twenty of the Practice Act provides that the

provisions of Title XI of that act, so far as consistent with the jurisdiction
and owers of Justices’ Courts, shall be applicable thereto, and Title XI

incl as section four hundred and twenty-two. We see nothing in this section, as amended, inconsistent with the jurisdiction and power of these

Courts. Bradley 17. Kent, 22 Cal. 172.

§ 621. Mining claims, actions concerning, shall be governed by
the usages of the bar or dzggings.

In actions respecting “ mining claims,” proof shall be
admitted of the customs, usages, or regulations established
and in force at the bar, or diggings, embracing such claim;
and such customs, usages, or regulations, when not in condict with the constitution and laws of this State, shall govern the decision of the action.

§622. 

A new trial may be granted by the Justice, on motion,
within ten days after the entry of the judgment, for any one
_of the following causes: , i

let. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could
not have guarded against.

2d. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under
the influence of passion; or,

8d. Insumciency of the evidence to justify the verdict or
other decision.

4th. Newly discovered evidence material for the party
making the application, which he could not with reasonable
diligence have discovered and produced at the time.

§ 623. Application for a new trial.

The application shall be made upon affidavit and notice.
The atiidavit shall be filed with the Justice, with 8 statement
of the grounds upon which the party intends to rely. The

adverse party may use counter affidavits on the motion, pro»
vided they be filed one day previous to the hearing of the
motion. '

i § 624. ‘Appeal from a judgment qf a Justice may be taken to
the County Court. V

Any party dissatisfied with a judgment rendered in a
J ustice’s Court, may appeal therefrom to the County Court of

the county [at] any time within thirty days after the rendition of the judgment; the appeal shall be taken by tiling a
notice of appeal with the Justice, and serving a copy on the
adverse party. The notice shall state whether the appeal is
taken from the whole or apart of the judgment, and if from
a part, what part, and whether the appeal is taken on questions of law or fact, or both.

‘Amended 1853, 280; 1854, 98. See ante. M 366-367.
1. On appeal from a Jus'ice’s to 9. Con Conrt—the record not showing

that notice of a peal had been served on t e adverse pa?—appellant may
pgalveagghis am avit that such notice was in fact served. endiooa v. Orr, 16

2. The general rule regulating appeals, which provides that notice may be
served on the pang or his attorney, must govern cases arising in J ustices’
Courts. Wellon v. aribardi, 6 Cal. 245.

3. A Justice of the Peace has jurisdiction to grant a peals and to sta prooeedings thereupon; and hisaction cannot beneview on certtorari. 'oulta'
v. Stark, 7 Cal. 245.

4. Under the Constitution, before the amendment: which went into efect
January 1st, 1864, an appeal could be taken to the Supreme Court from a
judgment of the County curt, when the judgment appealed from, inclu '
ch  and interest,exceeded two hundred dollars. Malsonv. Vaughn,

5. One of the conditions upon which an appeal is allowed from a Justice's
Court, is payment of costs. McDe1-molt v. Douglass, 5 Cal. 89.

6.AnapealdoesnotlietotheConn Courtfrcmanordermade a
Justice of t e Peace, directing ro ed to have been stolen, and '
covered and brought before the ustice hy a peace officer, by virtue of a search
varrag. iisipedsby the Justice, to be delivered to the owner. People v. Hallo, . 6 1.

. An appeal to the County Court lies from a judgment rendered in a Jush'ce’s Court, in an action brought to recover the penalty for an overcharge,
pursuant to the provisions of the act of the 14th of April, 1863, concerning
street railroads in this State. Bureau v. Cowles, 25 Cal. 535.

8. A notice of appeal from a judgient rendered in a Justice's Court to the
County Court, in an action of forci e entry and detainer, is not invalidated
because it contains a clause that the “ appeal is taken on questions of law
alone." Zolle v. Mzbonald, 23 Cal. 136.

. § 625. ‘Party appealing on questions of law alone shall prepare a statement. Settlement of statement.

When a party appeals to the County Court on questions of
law alone, he shall, within ten days from the rendition of
judgment, prepare a statement of the case and file the same
with the Justice. The statement shall contain the grounds
upon which the party intends to rely on the appeal, and so
much of the evidence as may be necessary to explain the
grounds, and no more; within ten days after he receives
notice that the statement is filed, the adverse party, if dissatisfied with the same, may file amendments ; the proposed
statement and amendments shall be settled by the Justice,

and if no amendments be filed, the original statement shall be
adopted. The statement thus adopted or as settled by the
Justice, with a copy of the docket of the Justice, and all
motions filed with him by the parties during the trial, and
the notice of appeal shall be used on the hearing of the

appeal before the County Court.

‘Amended 1853, 280; 1854, 99' 1855, 198.
1. On appeal from a Justloe’s Court to a County Court, on questions of law
alone, if a new trial he ordered, it should take place in the County Court.

People v. Evelon, 8 Cal. 518.
§ 626. ‘If the appeal be upon questions of fact, or of law and
fact, no statement need be made.

When a party appeals to the County Court on questions of
fact, or on questions °of both law and fact, no statement need be

made, but the action shall be tried anew in the County Court.

‘Amended 1853, 280; 1854, 99.

1. A defendant, who has been properly served with process issued out of a.
Justice's Court, who allows judgment to be taken against him by default. admits the facts alleged in the com laint, and no appeal will lie from such judgment in reference to such facts, 1 ere being no issue of facts. The People as
rel. Jones v. The County Court of El Dorado County, 10 Cal. 19.

2. In such a case, where the defendant appeals on questions of both law
and fact, he is not entitled to a trial de novo. Id.

3. In all cases the issue of fact must be made in the Court of original jurisdiction. The County Court can only re the issue tried in the Court below.
This is what is meant by a trial anew in e County Court, under section six
hundred and twenty-six of the Practice Act. Id.

§ 627. "Upon the appeal, the Justice shall transmit the case to
the County Court.

‘Upon receiving the notice of appeal and on payment of
the fees of the Justice and filing an undertaking as required in the next section, the Justice shall within five
days transmit to the Clerk of the County Court; if the ap-'
peal be on questions of law alone, a certified copy of his
docket, the statement as admitted or as settled, the notice
of appeal and the undertaking filed; or, if the appeal he
on questions of fact, or both law and fact, a certified copy
of his docket, the pleadings, all notices, motions and other
papers filed in the cause, the notice of appeal and the undertaking filed, and the Justice may be compelled by the
County Court, by an order entered upon motion, to transmit such papers, and may be fined for neglect or refusal to
transmit the same; a certified copy of such order may be

served on the Justice by the party or his attorney. In the
County Court either party shall have the benefit of all

legal objections made in the J ustice’s Court.

‘Amended 1853, 280; 1854, 99; 1855, 198.

1. Where a arty appealed from a Justice’s Court to a County Court, and
the Justice neglected to send u with the record the notice of a peal: Held,
that it was error to refuse to ow appellant the opportunity 0 moving to
compel the Justice to send it up, by peremptorily dismissing the appeal.
Sherman v. Rolberg, 9 Cal. 17.

2. Even were this not the case, when such an omission occurs, leave should
be granted to nle a good bond. Billings v. Roadhouse, 5 Cal. 71.

3. The omission of the words “ to pay to ” will not invalidate the obligation of an a peal bond. Id. 4

4. It is ways within the power of a Court, when exercisin proper
discretion, to extend the time fixed by law, whenever the ends 0 'ustice
would seem to demand such an extension. Wood v. Forbes et al., 5 al. 62.

5. A Justice of the Peace may refuse to send up the transcript of a cause
tried before him, until his fees are aid by appellant; but if he sends it up
without receiving his fees, the fact at they are not paid is no ground for dismissing the appeal. .Bra' v. Redman, 6 Cal. 287.

6. An oEer to pay the ustice his costs on appeal, so soon as the appeal
papers are ready to transmit to the County Court, is not a suilicient tender,
under the statute. The fees must be tendered unconditionally. People ea: rel.

v. Harris, 9 Cal. 571.
7. The Justice is not bound that to make out the papers, and then rely on

his fees being afterward paid. Id.
8. An appeal is made by tiling and serving the notice of a peal. Both

P
requisites must exist to comgtzltlg tgeoagpeal. A failure to notify the adverse

party is fatal. Whi v. 641.
9. One of the con 'tions upon which an appeal is allowed from Justices’

Courts, is the payment of the costs of the action.’ McDe1-molt v. Douglas, 5

Cal. 89.
10. Where the a peal is taken on questions of law alone, the Justice sends

up a statement wit a copy of this docket and all motions filed by the parties
during the trial, the notice of appeal and the undertakin on a peal. But
when the appeal is on questions of fact, or both of law an fact, e sends up
no statement. The statement must contain the unds upon which the
parties intend to rely on the appeal, and so muc of the evidence as ma
can ngfgssary to explain the grounds and no more. People v. Freelon,

§ 628. ‘ Undertaking on appeal. Justification of sureties.

An appeal from a J ustice’s Court shall not be effectual for
any purpose, unless an undertaking be filed, with two or more
sureties, in the sum of one hundred dollars, for the payment
of the costs on the appeal; or, if a stay of proceedings be
claimed, in a sum equal to twice the amount of the judgment,
including costs, when the judgment is for the payment of
money; or twice the value of the property, including costs:
when the judgment is for the recovery of specific personal
property, and shall be conditioned, when the action is for the
recovery of money, that the appellant will pay the amount of
the judgment appealed from and all costs, if the appeal be
withdrawn or dismissed, or the amount of any judgment and

ali costs that may be recovered against him in the said action
in the County -Court. When the action is for the recovery
of speciiic personal property, the undertaking shall be conditioned that the appellant will pay the judgment and costs
appealed from, and obey the order of the Court made therein:
if the appeal be withdrawn or dismissed, or any judgment
and costs that may be recovered against him in said action in
the County Court, and will obey any order made by the Court
therein. The undertaking shall be accompanied by the affidavits of the sureties that they are residents of the county,
and are each worth the amount specified in the undertaking,
over and above all their just debts and liabilities, exclusive
of property exempt from execution; or the bond shall be
executed by a sufiicient number of snreties who can justify,
in the aggregate, to an amount equal to double the amount
specified in the bond, or a deposit of the amount of the judgment, including all costs appealed from, or of the value of the
property, including all costs in actions for the recovery -of
specific personal property, with the Justice. And such de»
posit shall be equivalent to the filing of the undertaking in
this Act mentioned; and in such cases the Justice shall
transmit the money to the Clerk of the County Court, to be
by him paid out on the order of the Court. The adverse
party may, however, except to the sufiicieucy of the sureties
within five days after the filing of thewundertaking, and unless
they or other sureties justify before the Justice before whom
the appeal is taken, within five days thereafter, upon notice
to the adverse party, to the amounts stated in their affidavits,
the appeal shall be regarded as if no such undertaking had
been given.*

§ 629. Onjiling undertalcing, execution shall be stayed.

If an execution be issued, on the filing of the undertaking
staying all proceedings, the Justice shall, by order, direct the
ofdicer to stay all proceedings on the same. Such oilicer shall,
upon payment of his fees for services rendered on the execution, thereupon relinquish all property levied upon, and deliver the same to the judgment debtor, together with all
monies collected from sales or otherwise. If his fees be not
paid, the officer may retain so much of the property or proceeds thereof, as may be necessary to pay the same.

1.AJnsticepfthePeace_hasjnrisdietiontograntap ,an.dtosta propeedjngs ereum; and his action cannot be reviey on ,eertiorari. V cutter
1. Stark, Cal. . i

§ 630. Amended 1853: 281 ; repealed 1854, 100.

§ 681. ‘Goals allowed to prevailing party.

Costs shall be allowed to the prevailing party in a J ustice’s

Court.
‘Amended 1854, 100; 1855, 251.

§ 632. Amended 1854, 100; repealed 1855, 250.

§ 633. Money collected b3/.0'onslable or Shemff shall be paid
over _to _the Justice.

Justices of the Peace shall receive from the Sheriff or Constables of their county, all monies collected on any process
or order issued, by their Courts respectively, and all monies
paid to them in their ofiicial capacity, and shall pay the same
over to the parties entitled or authorized to receive them,
without delay. For a violation of this section, they may be
removed from their office, and shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. ' r

§ 634. Justice may require security for costs.

Justices of the Peace may, in all cases, require a deposit
of money, or an undertaking, as security for costs of Court,

before issuing a summons.

1. The statute which declares that " any officer may refuse to perform any
services in a civil action or proceeding until the fee for such service is paid,

is not to be construed as rohibiting the officer from performing the service

without payment of fees, ut as permissive merel , leaving the alternatives
of cash in advance or credit, to his own election. ' Icv. Madden, 25 Cal. 203.
2. If where the services are demanded of an officer in a civil case, he fails

to demand his fee in advance, his obligation to perform the duty required is
the same as it would be if the fees were prepaid or tendered in advance. Id.

§ 635. ‘Preceding sections applicable to Justices’ Courts.

The provisions of section thirty-two, three hundred and
sixty-eight, three hundred and sixty-nine, three hundred and
seventy, three hundred and seventy-one, three hundred and
seventy-two, three hundred and seventy-three, five hundred
and nineteen, five hundred and twenty, five hundred and
twenty-three, five hundred and twenty-five, five hundred and
twenty-six, nve hundred and twenty-seven, five hundred and

thirty-one, five hundred and thirty-two, shall be applicable to

Justices’ Courts and actions therein.
‘Amended 1860, 306.

TITLE LVIII.

pnocssnmes IN orvn. cases IN anconnsas’ AND muons’
counrs.

Sscrros 636. Complaint, contents of. Must be veritled.
637. Summons shall issue on llling complaint, returnable in not
less than four days.
638. Defendant may plead orally or in writing.
639. Trial b jury, when defendant is entitled to.
640. Appea s may be taken to the Coun Court.
641. Prcgeedings shall be conducted as actions in Justices’
ourts.
642. This title applicable to Mayors’ and Recorders’ Courts.

§ 636. Complaint, contents of. Must be om:/led.

_ Civil actions in Recorders’ and Mayors’ Courts shall be
commenced by filing the complaint, setting forth the violation of the ordinance complained of, with such particulars of
time, place, and manner of violation, as to enable the defendant to understand distinctly the character of the violation

complained of, and to answer the complaint. The ordinance
may be referred to by its title. The complaint shall be verified by the oath of the party complaining, or of his attorney

or agent.

§ 637. Summons shall issue on filing comphzint, returnable in
not less than four days.

Immediately after filing the complaint, a summons shall be
issued, directed to the defendant, and returnable either immediately, or at any time designated therein, not exceeding
four days from the date of its issuance.

§ 638. Defendant may plead orally or in writing.

On the return of the summons, the defendant may plead to
the complaint, or he may answer or deny the same. Such
plea, answer, or denial, may be oral or in writing, and immediately thereafter the case shall be tried, unless for good
cause shown, an adjournment be granted.

§ 639. Trial by jury, when defendant is entitled to.

In all actions for violation of an ordinance, where the
line, forfeiture, or penalty imposed by the ordinance, is less
than fifty dollars, the trial shall be by the Court. In
actions where the fine, forfeiture, or penalty imposed by

the ordinance, is over fifty dollars, the defendant shall be
entitled, if demanded by him, to a jury of six persons.

§ 640. Appeals may be taken to the Gmnty Court.

From a judgment in a civil action in a Recorder’s or
Mayor’s Court, an appeal may be taken to the County
Court. The appeal shall be taken and the proceedings
thereon conducted in the same manner as appeals are taken
from a judgment in a civil action in a J ustice’s Court, and
as the proceedings thereon are conducted.

§ 641. Proceedings shall be conducted as in Justices’ C'ourls.

All proceedings‘ in civil actions in Recorders’ and‘ Mayor’s Courts, except as herein otherwise provided, shall be’

conducted in the’ same manner as in civil actions in Justices’

Courts.

642. This title applicable to Mayors‘ and Recorders’ Courts.

The provisions of this title shall be applicable to civil
actions in Recorders’ and Mayors’ Courts already established, or which may hereafter be established in any incorporated city of this State.

651:
652.
658.

654.
655.

{' 656.
657.
658.
659.
660.
661.
662.
663.
664.

665.

666.
667.

TITLE LVIX.
nrscsnmztsous rnovrsrons‘.

Su reme Court may make‘ rules for itself and 

ourts.
County clerk, what Courts clerk of.
Actions againn a she:-in for omcial acts.
Actions may be prosecuted in the Spanish language Incertain counties.

. Use anddenuition of  a's’usedin this act;

Certain acts re led.

When this act (to takeefect.

Undertakings mentioned in this act, requisites of.
Receivers in=actions1-expecting‘ mining claims‘;

Beceivers, duties and compensation of. , p 0 _
Writs of certiorari‘ and mandamus, who may issue.

. Hearing ma be in vacation. _ _ 6
Property attac ed may be sold as under execution, if the
interestsof the parties require.
Cer‘-tined copies of certain papers may be admitted inevience.

Partners may be sued, b their common name.

Decisions on appeal shal be given in 

Of disclaimer, before answer.

Intervention, who may make. Dellnition.
Intervention may be before or after issue joined.
Intervention, pleadings, and proceedings upon.
Intervention, determination upon.

Testimou to be taken by the clerk on request. _
In case o adjournment, a partymay havethe testimony

of any witness taken. _A _ .
Executions’ for costs may issue on‘ uling rémittilnr, or
when oostsare allowed order of Court.
Repealing certain laws, an reviving others.
When supplementary act to take'elfe‘dt

§643. Supreme Court may make rules for  and the District Courts.

The Supreme Court may make rules not inconsistent
with the Constitution and laws of the State, for its own
Government, and the Government of the District Courts
and the Superior Court of the City of San Francisco; but
such rules shall not be in force until thirty days after" their

adoption and publication.
1.- The Superior Court of the city of San Francisco abolished May 1st,- 1857

§ 644. County Clerk, what Courts Clerk of.

The County Clerk shall be the Clerk of the County Court,
the Court of Sessions, and the Probate Court of" his county.
Until otherwise provided by law, the Clerk. of the Superior
Court of the City of San_Francisco shall be appointed by

the said Court.

1. A county clerk may issue process and attest proceedings of the Courts of
which he is ca: ojicio clerk, over his signature as county clerk, and leave to
the title of the proceedings or the contents of the instrument, the identification of the Courts to which the belong. Touchard Y. Crow, 20 Cal. 150.

2. He may likewise attest an ~ sign as county clerk, certificate of acknowledgment, amxing thereto the seal of Court of which he is ca: ojicio clerk, and
the seal a§lxed'~,.with its inscription, will sumcisntly designate the court of
which in that paticular matter he is acting as clerk. Id.

3. The authority of a deputy county clerk in taking and certifying to ac‘hiowledgments of conveyances islco-extensive with that of his principal. Id.

§ 645. Actions against-a Shem]? for oji’cz'al' acts.

If an action is brought against a Sheriff for an act done
by virtue of hisgoffice, and he give‘ written notice thereof to
the sureties on any bond of indemnity received by him, the
judgment recovered therein shall be conclusive evidence of
his right to recover against such sureties; and the Court or
Judge in vacation may, on motion, upon notice of five days,
order judgment to be entered up against them for the

amount so recovered, including, costs.

§ 646. ‘Actions may be prosecuted in the Spanish language in
certain counties.

In the counties of Monterey, San Luis Obispo, Santa Barbara, Los Angeles and San Diego, it shall be the duty of the
officer to give the defendant, in a civil action, if said defendant shall require it, a copy of the summons or other process
in the Spanish language; and in the counties of Santa Barbara, San Luis Obispo, Los Angeles, San Diego, and Monterey,
it shall be lawful, with the consent of both parties, to have
the process, pleadings, and other proceedings in a cause, in

the Spanish language.
‘Amended 1857, 1862, 567.

§ 647. Use and definition of certain words used in this Act.

Words used in this Act in the present tense, shall be deemed
to include the future as well as the present; words used in
the singular number shall be deemed to include the plural,
and the plural the singular; writing shall be deemed to include printing or printed paper ; oath to include allirmation
or declaration; signature or subscription to include mark,
when the person cannot write, his name being written near
it, and witnessed by a person who writes his own name, as a
witness.

§ 648. (krtain Acts repeated.

The following statutes, namely: the Act entitled “An Act
to Regulate Proceedings in Civil Cases in the District Court,
the Superior Court of the city of San Francisco, and the
Supreme Court,” passed April twenty-second, eighteen hundred and fifty; the Act entitled “An Act to Regulate Proceedings against Debtors by Attachment,” passed- April
twenty-second, eighteen hundred and fifty ; the Act entitled
“An Act providing for the Collection of Demands against
Vessels and Boats,” passed April tenth, eighteen hundred and
fifty; the Act entitled “An Actto Regulate Proceedings in
Courts of Justices of the Peace in Civil Cases,” passed April

tenth, eighteen hundred and fifty; and the Act entitled “ An
Act to Regulate Proceedings in the County Courts in Case a
of Appeal from the Courts of Justices of the Peace,” passed
April eleventh, eighteen hundred and fifty ; the Act entitled
“An Act respecting Set-offs,” passed [April] twenty-secon d»
eighteen hundred and hfty, are hereby repealed; but such
repeal shall not invalidate any judgment rendered, or order

made, or any proceeding already taken by virtue of said
statutes.

§ 649. When this Act to take eject.

This Act shall take effect on the first day of July, of the
present year.

1. The following sections, born six hundred and dft to six hundred and
Nty-seven, are supplementary provisions, enacted in “ Act amendato of,

and su plementary to, an Act entitled an Act to Regulate P  in ‘V11
Cases £1 the Courts of Justice of this State.” Passed May 16th, 1 .

§ 650. 1 Undertakings mentioned in this Act, requisites of.

In all cases where an undertaking with sureties required
by the provisions of said Act, the Judge, Justice, Clerk, or
other oiiicer taking the same, shall require the sureties to
accompany the same with an affidavit that they are each
worth the sum specified in the undertaking, over and above
all their just debts and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution; provided, that when the amount
speciiied in the undertaking exceeds three thousand dollars,
and there are more than two sureties thereon, they may
state in their aiiidavits that they are severally worth amounts
less than that expressed in the undertaking, if the whole
amount be equivalent to that of two sutiicient sureties.

§ 651. ‘Receivers in actitms respecting mining claims.

In actions respecting miners’ claims, in a J ustice’s Court,
the Justice shall have power upon application of the party
out of possession‘ of the claim or claims, after notice of one
day to the adverse party, to appoint a receiver of the proceeds of the claim, pending the action. If the parties agree
upon a person, he shall be appointed such receiver; if the
parties do not agree, the Justice shall appoint a receiver,
who shall take an oath, which shall be filed with ‘the J astice, that he is not interested in the action between the parties, and that he will honestly keep an account of all gold
dust or metals of any kind, the proceeds of the claim or
claims in dispute. After the appointment of such receiver,
the Justice shall have power to issue a written order to any
Sheriff or Constable, to put such receiver into possession of
such claim, which order said Sheriff or Constable shall execute, and the receiver shall remain in possession of the
claim or claims, so long as said action may remain undetermined in any Court. The Court in which the action may
be pending, shall have authority, upon the application of
either party, with two days’ notice to the other, from time
to time, to make such orders for the disposition of the proceeds of such claim or claims, for the safety of the same, as
may seem proper. The Court in which the action may be
pending, shall also have power, upon application of the receiver, based upon his affidavit, to punish as for contempt,
all persons who have been guilty of disturbing the receiver

in the possession of the claims.
‘Amended 1854, § 63, p. 101; 1855,199. See § 143 and notes.

§ 652. ‘Receivers, duties of.

The receiver mentioned in the last section, shall keep an
accurate account of all the proceeds of the claim pending
action, and of all amounts paid out for working the same:

and shall retain the proceeds, and pay the same over put’
snant to_ the order of_ the Court. The receiver shall also be
required, on demand of either party, to give security for

-the faithful performance of his trust, and shall be allowed
for the same a reasonable compensation, to be paid out of

the proceeds of the claim in his hands; but in no case exceeding ten per cent. upon such proceeds.
‘Amended 1354, § 54, p. 101.

§ 653. ‘Writs of certiorari and mandamus, who may issue.
Hearing may be in vacation. '

Writs of certiorari and mandamus may be issued in the cases
prescribed by said Act by a Judge of the Supreme Court,
District Court, or County Court, in vacations, and may, in
the discretion of the Judge issuing the writ, be made returnable,_and a hearing ‘may_be_‘had on the return thereof
in vacation. C ‘ A A i ‘

1Amended 1854, § 65, p. 101.

.§,654. ‘Property attached,nuzy.be sold as under execution, 
the interests of the parties require.

Whenever property has been taken by an officer _nndgr_a
writ of attachment, in pursuance of the provisions of said
act, and it shall be made to appear satisfactorily to_the Court,
or a Judge thereof, or a County Judge, that the interest of
the parties to the action will be subserved by a sale thereof,
the Court or Judge may order such property to be sold in
the same manner as property is sold under an execution, and
the proceeds to be deposited in the Court, to abide the judgment in the action. Such order shall be made only upon
notice to the adverse party or his attorney, in case such
party have been . personally served with a summons in the
action.

amended 1854, § 66, p. 101. 80° N 1.30. 221.

§ 655. ‘Certified copies of certain papcrsgmaybeadmitted .48
evidence.

A copy of any record, document, or paper in custody of a
public officer of this State, or of the -United ‘States,’ within

this State, certified under the official seal, or verified by the
oath of such officer, to be a true, full and correct copy of the

original in. his custody, may be read  evidencepin an action

or proceeding in the Courts of this State, in the like manner
and with the like effect, as the original could be if produced.

‘Amended 185i, 6 68, p. 102. See M 448, 499.

1. A sworn copy or exemplincation of instruments in the archives of the
Government is evidence, and the ori 'nals o ht not to be removed from the

Government offices. Gregory v. Me hereon, 3 Cal. 674.
2. A certified copy of a deed from the county recorder-’s office, contained in

the margin of the acknowledgement taken before a notary, and in the place
where his seal is usually found, the words [“ No Seal ”]—the conclusion of
the acknowledgement be’ , “ In witness whereof I have hereunto set my
hand and amxed my odic' seal,” etc. The Court below ruled out the co y of
the deed as evidence, on the ground that the acknowledgement did not vs
the no ’s seal. Held, that the Court erred; that the words [“No Seal")
instead 0 im lying that there was no seal adixed, were a mere note by the
recorder of e place of the notarial seal, which he probabl had no means of
copying. Jones v. Martin, 16 Cal. 166. [See Donner v. almer, and cases
there c ted, 31 Cal. 500.]

5 656. Partners may be sued by their common name.

When two or more persons associated in any business,
transact such business under a common ‘name, whether it
comprises the names of such persons or not, the associates
may be sued by such common name, the summons in such
cases being served on one or more of the associates, but
the judgment in such case shall bind only the joint'_property of the associates.

1. If, in a complaint against a company by its company name, under the
six hundred and lifty-sixth section of the Practice Act, there is an entire absence of any statement sho ' the existence of the conditions named in the
section, and (judgment is ren ered against the company by default, is the
judgment vol , or are the conditions matters to be pended in abatement. and
if not thus pleaded, waived? Welch v. Kirkpatric . 30 Cal. 202.

2. If a complaint in an action against a company by its company states
substantial] e conditions mentioned in the six undred and nfty-sixth section of the gractice Act, and the sheriff returns that he has served the summons on one of the members of the company. and judgment by default is
entered up ' t the com y by its name, to be enforced ' the joint
property of e members, e Judgment is not void, but may enforced by
execution against the company property. Id. '

3. Such judgment is not a judgment against the person served with process,
but against the com ny. A complaint which contains no other designation
of the party plain ' than the name of a copartnership firm, is defective; but
such defect can onl be made available to defendant by demurrer for defect of
parties, or by d ' in the answer of any cause of action and objection thereggéler to evidence in support of the claim. Gilman J: 00. v. Oosgroos, 22 Cal.

§ 657. ‘Decisions on appeal shall be givenin 

All decisions given upon an appeal, in any appellate Court
of this State, shall be given in writing, with the reason
therefore, and filed with the Clerk of the Court, but this section shall not apply to actions tried with a jury anew in the

County Court, or on appeal from a J ustice’s Court.

‘ Amended 1854, §69, p. 102.

1. A decision of the Court is its judgment; the opinion is the reasons given
for that judgment. The former bei entered on record immediately, can
onl be changed upon a etition for re eating or a modification. The latter
is e property of the ju es, subject to their revision, correction and modification, until it is transcribed on the record with the consent of the writer,
when it ceases to be subject of change, exce t through regular proceedings
before the Court by petition. Houston v. W’ iams, 13 Cal. 3.

2. The practice of giving the reasons in writing for 'udgments is of modern
origin. And it is discretionary with the Court whet er it give an opinion
gen pronouncing judgment, and if given, whether it be oral or in 

3. The Legislature cannot require the Sn reme Court to give the reasons of
its decisions in  The Constitutio duty of the Court is discharged
by the rendition of its decisions. Id.

§ 658. ‘Of disclaimer before answer and interpleader.

A defendant against whom an action is pending upon a
contract, or for specific personal property, may at any time
before answer, upon affidavit that a person not a party to the
action makes against him, and without any collusion with
him, a demand upon the same contract, or for the same property, upon due notice to such person, and the adverse party,
apply to the Court for an order to substitute such person in
his place, and discharge him from liability to either party, on
his depositing in Court the amount claimed on the contract,
or delivering the property or its value to such person as the
Court may direct, and the Court may, in’ its discretion, make

the order.

‘ Amended 1854, § 70, p. 102.

1. Where a tenant finds that there are claimants to the property, he should
file a bill of interpleader, making all the adverse claimants parties thereto,
and offer to pay the rents into Court, to abide the ultimate decision of the

case. McDv.-mu v. Sullivan, 8 Cal. 592.
§ 659. ‘Intervention, who may make. Definition of.

Any person shall be entitled to intervene in an action
who has an interest in the matter in litigation, in the success
of either of the parties to the action, or an interest against
both. An intervention takes place when a third person is
permitted to become a party to an action between other persons, either by joining the plaintifff in claiming what is sought
by the complaint, or by uniting with the defendant in resisting the claims of the plaintifff, or by demanding anything
adversely to both the plaintifff and the defendant.

§ 660. ‘Intervention may be before or after issue joined.

A third person may intervene, either before or after issue
has been joined in the cause.
‘Amended sec. 72, p. 102.

§ 661. ‘Intervention, pleadings and proceedings upon.
The intervention shall be by petition or complaint, filed

in the Court in which the action is pending, and it must set
forth the grounds on which the intervention rests. A copy

of the petition or complaint shall be served upon the party
or parties to the action against whom anything is demanded,
who shall answer it as if it were an original complaint in

the action.

‘Amended 1854, § 73, p. 102.

1. Where a subsequent attaching creditor intervenes in an action for the
purpose of setting aside an attachment issued therein, on the ground that
there is no debt due from the defendant to the plaintifff, the allegations in the

pleading on the part of the intervenor, traversing the complaint, have the
same e ect as denials in an answer, and require amrmative proof by the
plaintit of his cause of action, in default of which the intervenor will have

Judgment in his favor. Speyer v. I hmels, 21 Cal. 280.

§ 662. ‘Intervention, determination upon.
The Court shall determine upon the intervention at the

same time that the action is decided; if the claim of the
party intervening is not sustained, he shall pay all costs

incurred by the intervention.

‘Amended 1854, 6 74, p. 102.

1. Where the merits of the case were not investigated in the lower Court:
by reason of an uncertainty as to the proper mode of proceeding under the
anomalous provisions of the Practice Act rela ' to interventions, the Snpreme Court awarded a new trial, although the ' ‘on of the Court below
upon the main question involved was approved, and the only error disclosed
might have been cured by a direction to modify the judgment. Speyer Y.
I funds, 21 Cal. 281.

§ 663. ‘Testimony to be taken by the Clerk on request.

On the trial of any action in a Court of Record, either
party may require the Clerk to take down the testimony in

writing.
‘Amended 1854, Q 75, p. 102.

1. Exceptions to be written down by the olerk.—Where the parties
have not made a case nor a hill of exceptions, but have relied upon the teetimony taken down by the clerk, pursuant to section two hundred and seventyone of the Practice Act of 1850, no question can be raised, on a peal, respecting the decisions of the Court below during the progress of e trial. The
case of CGc:nte;ov. Geary, (1 Cal. 462), amrmed in this respect Pierce v. Minturn, 1 a . 4 .

2. If a party desires to bring the rulings of the District Judge. during the
regress of the trial. under review, he must either make out a statement of
acts, pursuant to section two hundred and seventy-two of the Practice Act of

1850, or a bill of exceptions, pursuant to sections two hundred and eightyseven and two hundred and eighty-eight. This Court will not examine into the
correctness of the decisions of the District Judge. where it has been such left
to the clerk of the District Court to ascertain and settle what decisions were.
Gunter v. Geary, 1 Cal. 462.

3. A mere transcript of the evidence taken down b the clerk is no part of
the record, unless made so by bill of exceptions. tleon v. Middleton, 2 Cal.
54. These cases amrmed in Castro’: emecutors v. Armeati, 14 Cal. 88.

§ 664. ‘In case of an acyournment, a party may have the testimony of any witness taken.

The party obtaining a postponement of a trial in any
Court of Record, shall also, if required by the adverse
party, consent that the testimony of any witness of such
adverse party, who is in attendance, be then taken by deposition before a Judge or Clerk of the Court in which the
case is pending, or before such Notary Public as the Court

may indicate, which shall accordingly be done, and the testimony so taken may be read on, the trial with the same
effect, and subject to the same objections, as if the witnesses
were produced.

§ 665. ‘Executions for costs may issue on filing remittitur, or
when costs are allowed by order of Court.

Whenever costs are awarded to a party by an Appellate
Court, such party may have an execution for the same, on
filing a remittitur with the Clerk of the Court below, and it
shall be the duty of such Clerk, whenever the remittitur is
filed, to issue the execution upon application therefore; and
whenever costs are awarded to a party by an order of any
Court, such party may have an execution therefore in like

manner as upon a judgment.

‘ Amended 1854, 6 77, p. 103.
1. When a remittitur is sent down, the Clerk of the District Court may
issue execution for costs. Mayor qf Jlarysvilte v. Buchanan, 3 Cal. 212;

amrmed in 20 Cal. 51.

2. Where a judgment is against two, one only of whom appeals, and the
appeal is dismissed with twenty per cent. damages, the damages with the
costs do not become part of the cigginal judgment, and the redemptioner is
not bound to pay them when he eems from a sale under the udgxlplent.
The clerk below can issue execution for the damages and costs. Age)! n v.
Vischer, 14 Cal. 241.

3. The Clerk of the Court below can issue an execution, if re uired by the
prevailing party, for the costs included in the memorandum, an the costs of
the Clerk of the Sgpreme Court as certified by him on the remittitur. Eh:
parte Bun-ill et a1., Cal. 350.

§ 666. ‘Repealing certain laws and revising others.

Sections five, six, seven, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, eighteen,
nineteen and twenty, of the Act entitled: “An Act Amendatory of and Supplementary to the Act entitled ‘An Act to
Regulate Proceedings in Civil Cases in the Courts of Justice
in this State,’ ” passed May eighteenth, one thousand eight
hundred and fifty-three, are hereby repealed, and the sections
amended by said Amendatory Act shall stand revived as

amended by this Act.
‘ Amended 1854, § 78, p. 103.

§ 667. ‘ When supplementary Act to take efect.

This Act shall take effect on the first day of July, one
thousand eight hundred and fifty-four.


