AN ACT

TO REGULATE PROCEEDINGS IN CIVIL CASES IN THE
COURTS OF JUSTICE OF THIS STATE.

AS PASSED APRIL 29, 1851, AND AMENDED MAY 18, 1853; MAY 18, 1854; APRIL 28,
MAY 4 AND MAY 7, 1855; FEBRUARY 20, 1857; MARCH 24, APRIL 15. 1858.

The practice act is prospective, and not retrospective in its operation.
People v. Hays, 4 Cal., 127.

The People of the State of C'alzfornz'a represented in Senate and
Assembly, do enact as follows :

TITLE I.

OF THE FORM OF CIVIL ACTIONS, AND OF THE PARTIES THERETO.

1. There shall be in this state but one form of civil action, for the

enforcement or protection of private rights, and the redress or prevention
of private wrongs.

2. Insuch action the party complaining shall be known as the plaintifff, and the adverse party as the defendant.

1. A person named as defendant and not served with process, is not a party to the
action. Robinson v. Frost, 14 Barb., 536.

3., When a question of fact not put in issue by the pleadings, is tobe
tried by a jury, an order for the trial may be made, stating distinctly
and plainly the question of fact to be tried; and such order shall be
the only authority necessary for a trial.~

4. [1854, 1855.] Every action shall be prosecuted in the name
of the real party in interest, except as otherwise provided in this act;
but in suits brought by the assignee of an account, unliquidated demand,
or thing in action not arising out of contract, assigned subsequently to
the first day of July, 1854, the assignor shall not be a witness on behalf of the plaintifff.

5. In the case of an assignment of a thing in action, the action by
the assignee shall be without prejudice to any set-off or other defense,
existing at the time of, or before notice of the assignment; but this
section shall not apply to a negotiable promissory note, or bill of exchange, transferred in good faith, and upon good consideration before
due.

1. If plaintifff was assignee in good faith, and demanded goods within a reasonable
time, a notice of the assignment was not necessary to charge defendants, and if they
deliver goods to an attaching creditor it is at their own risk ; Morgan v. Lowe, 5 Cal.,
325.

2. What is a good consideration in the assignment of a promissory note? Payne
v. Bensley, 7 Cal., Oct. T.

3. The admission or declarations of an assignor of a chose in action, made while he
is the holder and before assignment, are evidence against his assignee, and all claiming
under him.—2 Phill. Ev., (C. & H. Ed.) note 446, pp. 387, 644, 663. Brown v. Magnaw, 12 Sme. & M., 267; Grand Gulf Bank v. Wood, ib., 482.

4. The assignee of a cause of action, assigned after action brought, is liable to the
defendant for costs, if he (the assigneee) proceed in the action after the assignment, and
in such a case he takes the demand cum onere, and is liable for the costs which had accrued before, as well as those which arise after the assignment. Zlliller v. Franklin, 20
Wend., 630.

5. Where an assignee having money in bank makes an assignment for the benefit
of his creditors, soon after which, but before notice, a bill held by the bank fell due and
was charged in the account of insolvent, held that the assignee was entitled to recover it of the bank. Beclcwith v. Union Bank of New York, 5 Selden, 211.

6. [1854.] An executor or administrator, or trustee of an express trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute, may sue without
joining with him the person or persons for whose benefit the action is
prosecuted. A trustee of an express trust within the meaning of this
section, shall be construed to include a person with whom, or in whose
name, a contract is made-for the benefit of another.

7. When a married woman is a party her husband shall be joined
with her; except that,
1st. When the action concerns her separate property she may sue
alone ; ' ~

2d. When the action is between herself and her husband she may

_ sue or be sued alone.

1. 1st. Sustained, as referring to property in the statute denoted separate property ;
it does not refer to rents accruing, &c. Snyder v. Webb, 3 Cal., 83.

2. 2d. The object is to take away the necessity of suing by prochein am’, and being a.
remedial statute, must be beneficially construed. Kashaw v. Kashaw, 3 Cal., 312 ;
Mclfune v. Mc Garvey, 6 Cal., 497 ; Guttman v. Scannell, 7 Cal., April T.

3. A wife cannot sue alone to recover the homestead, it is a joint estate, and both
husband and wife must join in the action. Poole v. Gerrard, 6 Cal., 7] .

4. If the wife is improperly joined it must be taken advantage of by demurrer.
Tissot v. Throckmorton, 6 Cal., 471. 5. In an action to recover real property when the wife is the owner of the fee and
the husband tenant by the courtesy initiate, the husband and wife may and should join
in the action. Ingraham v. Baldwin, 12 Barb., 9.

6. In an action to foreclose a mortgage executed by husband and wife on the lands
of the wife, both should be sued. Conde v. Shephard, 4 How. Pr., 75; Conde v. Nelson,

2 Code R., 58.

8. If a husband and wife be sued together the wife may defend for
her own right.

1. Where the defense of the wife is a special one, she can defend for her own right
as well when sued jointly, as if the trial was separate. Deuprez v. Deuprez, 5 Cal., 387.

9. When an infant is a party he shall appear by guardian, who
may be appointed by the court in which the action is prosecuted, or
by a judge thereof, or a county judge.

I. The taking judgment against an infant as for want of an answer without appointing a guardian ad litem is an irregularity, and the plaintifff ’s want of knowledge

that the defendant is a minor will not serve to make the judgment regular. The judg- .

ment so taken will be set aside on motion and without imposing terms. Kellogg v.
Kloclc,2 Code R., 27.

10. The guardian shall be appointed as follows: —
1st. When the infant is plaintifff, upon the application of the infant,
\

if he be of the age of fourteen years; or if under that age, upon the
application of a relative or friend of the infant;

2d. When the infant is defendant, upon the application of the infant,
if he be of the age of fourteen years, and apply within ten days after
the service of the summons; if he be under the age of fourteen, or
neglect so to apply, then upon the application of any other party to the
action, or of a relative or friend to the infant.

1. Where the infant is plaintifff he must have a guardian appointed before the action
is commenced. Hill v. Tlzacter, 2 Code R., 3.

11. A father, or, in case of his death or desertion of his family, the

,mother may maintain an action for the injury or death of a child ; and

a guardian for the injury or death of his ward.

12. All persons having an interest in the subject of the action, and
in obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined as plaintifffs, except
when otherwise provided in this act. ’

1. Different persons owning separate tenements, affected by a nuisance, may join
in one action to obtain an injunction to restrain the continuance of it. Peck v. Elder,
3 Sand, 1 26.

13. Any person may be made a defendant who has, or claims, an
interest in the controversy, adverse to the plaintifff, or who is a necessary party to a complete determination or settlement of the question

involved therein.
See Secs. 527, 658.

1. The plaintifff in an ejectment suit may sue one or more defendants, and they
may answer separately, or demand separate verdicts. W'z'nans v. Christ}/, 4 Cal., 70.

2. An appeal does not lie from an order making a new party defendant. Beck v.
City of San Francisco, 4 Cal., 375.

3. When several defendants are sued on a joint liability, there can only be a joint
recovery and judgment; and no judgment can be entered by plaintifff, until al1\the defendants served have had the full time to answer. Jacques v. Greenwood, 1 Abbott, 230.

4. Where a sheriff is liable for the trespass or misfcasance of his deputy, both may
be sued jointly for such wrongful act. Waterbury v. lVestervelt, 5 Selden, 598.

14. Of the parties to the action, those who are united in interest
shall be joined as plaintiils, or defendants; but if the consent of any one
who should have been joined as plaintifff cannot be obtained, he may
be made a defendant, the reason thereof being stated in the complaint;
and when the question is oneof a common or general interest, of many

persons, or when the parties are numerous, and it is impracticable to
bring them all before the court, one or more may sue or defend for the

benefit of all.

1. The provisions of this section sustained. Von Schmidt v. Huntington, 1 Cal., 55 ;
Bouton v. City of Brooklyn, 15 Barb., 375 ; Kirk v. Young, 2 Abbott, 453.

2. In an action against defendants jointly indebted, where one only is served, a sev— 5“:
eral judgment may be entered against him. Hirshfield v. Franklin, 6 Cal., 607. 7‘ 3

3. This provision is designed to provide for a class of cases which occur in equity,
and is a more recognition of a rule administered by courts of equity, and not to break
in upon any rule of the common law. Andrews v. Mokelumne Hill 00., 7 Cal., Jan. T.,
ib., April T.

4. All the parties having a part interest in the subject matter should be joined as
plaintifffs, but the defect must be taken advantage of by answer or apportionment of

damages, where it does not appear on the face of the complaint. Whitnqy ,r. Stark, 7
Cal., Oct. T.

5. When a party rents property from another, and there are adverse claims to the
rent, he should file his bill against all adverse claimants therefore .and o&'er to pay the

rents into court to abide the ultimate decision as to the party entitled to them. lIl’Devitt v. Sullivan, 7 Cal., Oct. T.

15. Persons severally liable upon the same obligation or instrument,
including the parties to bills of exchange and promissory notes, and
sureties on the same or separate instruments, may all or any of them be
included in the same action, at the option of the plaintifff.

1. This section is in derogation of the old rule of common law, that one or all, and
not any intermediate number, may be sued. Stearns v. Aguirre, 6 Cal., 183.

16. An action shall not abate by the death, or other disability of a
party; or by the transfer of any interest therein, if the cause of action
survive or continue. In case of the death or other disability of a party,
the court on motion may allow the action to be continued by or against
his representative or successor in interest. In case of any other transfer
of interest, the action may be continued in the name of the original party ;
or the court may allow the person to whom the transfer is made to be
substituted in the action.

1. The provisions of Secs. 16 and 17 sustained in Brooks v. Huger, 5 Cal., 281.
2. A suit abates by sentence to State's Prison. 0’Brien v. Hagan, 1 Duer, 664.

3. Leave of the court to continue an action under this section is always necessary.
Johnson v. Williams, 2 Abbott, 229.

17. The court may determine any controversy between parties before it, when it can be done Without prejudice to the rights of others, ,

or by saving their rights; but when a complete determination of the
controversy cannot be had without the presence of other parties, the
court shall order them to be brought in.

1. A court of equity will not permit litigation by piece-meal. The whole subject
matter and all the parties should be before it, and their respective claims determined

once and forever. Wilson v. Lassen, 5 Cal., 114.

2. When a husband sues to recover a homestead, and the wife does not appear in
the action, the court should order her to be brought in, so that a final decree may be binding upon them. Marks v. Marsh, 8 Cal., Jan. T.

TITLE II.

OF THE PLACE or TRIAL or CIVIL ACTIONS. (a)

18. Actions for the following causes shall be tried in the county in
which the subject of the action or some part thereof, is situated, subject

19. Actions for the following causes shall be tried in the county
where the cause, or some part thereof, arose, subject to the like power
of the court to change the place of trial : W

1st. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by statute ;
except, that when it is imposed for an offense committed on a lake,
river, or other stream of water situated in two or more counties, the
action may be brought in any county bordering on such lake, river, or
stream, and opposite to the place where the oifense was committed :

2d. Against a public oiiicer or person especially appointed to execute his duties, for an act done by him in virtue of his office, or against

a person who, by his command, or in his aid, does anything touching
the duties of such oiiicer.

1. An action by the people and prosecuted by the attorney general is within the
second subdivision of this section.— People v. Hayes, 7 How. Pr.,' 248.

2. It is upon trial that the objection to the venue must be raised, and the omission

of the defendant to raise it then must be regarded as a waiver by which he is concluded.
——HowIand v. Willetts, 5 Sand., 219.

20. [1858.] In all other cases, the action shall be tried in the
county in which the defendants or any one of them may reside at the
commencement of the action ; or, if none of the defendants reside in the
state, or, if residing in this state, the county in which they so reside be
unknown to the plaintzf, the same may be tried in any county which
the plaintifff may designate in his complaint; and if any defendant or
defendants may be about to depart from the state, such action may be
tried in any county where either of the parties may reside, or service

be had, subject, however, to the power of the court to change the
place of trial, as provided in this act.

1. In an action of the nature of 'quo warranto, the place of trial may properly be
laid in any county of the state.—People v. Cook, 6 How. Pr., 448.

21. The court may, on motion, change the place of trial in the
following cases:

1st. When the county designated in the complaint is not the proper
county.

2d. When there is reason to believe that an impartial trial cannot,
be had therein.

3d. When the convenience of witnesses and the ends of justice
would be promoted by the change.

courts, shall be ‘commenced by the filing of a complaint with the clerk
of the court in which the action is brought, and the issuing of a summons thereon. Provided, that after the filing of the complaint, a defendant in the action may appear, answer or demur, whether the
summons has been issued or not, and such appearance, answer or
demurrer, shall be deemed a waiver of summons.

1. Where a summons was issued and served in the morning, by which the defendants were cited to appear and answer the complaint in the court of First Instance, at 10
o’cloek, and judgment was rendered against them at 9 o’clock on the morning of the
same day : held, that the judgment was irregular, and should be reversed, notwithstanding the court offered them permission to come in at a subsequent day, and make their
defense.—Parker v. Shephard, 1 Cal., 131.

2. In the absence of any statute to that effect, the state cannot be sued, and a judgment against it, is erroneous.—People v. Talmage, 6'Cal., 256 ; lvfeyerv. English, 8 Cal.,
Jan. T.

3. Lodging the summons with the sheriff with intent that it should be served, is sufficient.—Gregor_y v. W7z'ener, 1 Code R., N. S., 210.

23. The clerk shall endorse on the complaint, the day, month, and
year the same is filed ; and at any time after the filing, the plaintifff
may have a summons issued. The summons shall be signed by the

clerk, and directed to the defendant, and be issued under the seal of
the court.

24. [1854.] The summons shall state the parties to the action, the
court in which it is brought, the county in which the complaint is filed,
and require the defendant to appear and answer the complaint within
the time mentioned in the next section, after the service of summons,
exclusive of the day of service, or that judgment by default will be
taken against him, according to the prayer of the complaint, briefly
stating the sum or other relief demanded in the complaint.

25. The time in which the summons shall require the defendant to.
answer the complaint, shall be as follows :

1st. If the defendant is served within the county in which the action
is brought, ten days.

2d. If the defendant is served out of the county, but in the district
in which the action is brought, twenty days.

3d. In all other cases, forty days.

1. A judgment will be reversed on appeal, rendered before the time of answering
has expired.—Burt v. Scrantom, 1 Cal., 416.

26. There shall also be inserted in the summons a notice, in substance as follows:

1st. In an action arising on contract for the recovery only of money
or damages, that the plaintifff will take judgment for a sum specified
therein, if the defendant fail to answer the complaint.

2d. In other actions, that if the defendant fail to answer the complaint the plaintifff will apply to the court for the relief demanded
therein.

1. A mistake in the form of a summons is waived by the unconditional appearance
of the defendant.—Dix v. Palmer, 3 Code R., 214 ; 5 How. Pr., 233.

2. The cause of action stated in the complaint should control the form of the notice
in the summons.— Voorhies v. Scofield, 7 How. Pr., 51.

3. In an action for breach of promise of marriage, the summons should state that
in default of answer, the party would apply to the court for the relief demanded.—Davis v. Bates, 6 Abbott, 15.

27. In an action affectingthe title to real property, the plaintifff at
the time of filing the complaint, or at any time afterwards, may file
with the recorder of the county in which the property is situated, a
notice of the pendency of the action, containing the names of the parties,
the object of the action, and a description of the property in that county
affected thereby. From the time of filing only, shall the pendency of
the action be constructive notice to a purchaser or encumbrancer of the
property affected thereby.

28. [1854, 1855.] The summons shall be served by the sheriff of

the county where the defendant is found, or by his deputy, or by a
person specially appointed by him, or appointed by a judge of the
court in which the‘ action is brought, or by any white male citizen of
the United States over twenty-one years of age, who is competent to
be a. witness on the trial of the action, except as hereinafter provided;
a copy of the complaint, certified by the clerk, shall be served with the
summons. When the summons shall be served by the sheriff or his
deputy, it shall be returned with the certificate or aiiidavit of the oiiicer,
of its service, and of the service of the copy of the complaint, to the

oilice of the clerk, from which the summons issued. When the sum- «

mom; is served by any other person as before provided, it shall be returned to the oiiice of the clerk from which it issued, with the aiiidavit
of such person of its service, and of the service of a copy of the complaint. If there be more than one defendant in the action, and such
defendants reside within three miles of the clerk’s oiiice, a copy

of the complaint need be served on only one of the defendants.
See Secs. 646, 656.

1. The date of the return of the sheriff is sufficient, if defendant’s attorney acccepts
service of the summons, and attached no date thereto.—C'rane v. Brannan, 3 Cal., 192.

2. The object of a summons is to bring a party into court, and if that object be attained, there can be no injury to him.—Smz'th v. Curtis, 7 Cal., April T.

3. It is doubtful whether a person served by the wrong name, and who does not

answer, can be bound by a judgment taken against him, by substituting the right name
without notice.—1b.

4. The objection that a summons at the commencement of a suit is not properly
served, is not available in an answer or demurrer, but only on motion to set the proceedings aside.—Nones v. Hope Mutual Insurance Co., 5 How. Pr., 96.

5. A summons issued without mentioning the court from which it emanates, is defective.—Dix v. Palmer, 5 How. Pr., 233 ; James v. Kirlcpatrick, ib., 241.

6. The return of a sheriff or other person, of the service of summons, is not conclu' sive against a defendant.-—Van Rensselaer v. Chadwick, 7 -How. Pr., 297.

7. Where the defendant is served with process by the plaintifff personally, he must
take advantage of the irregularity by moving to set aside the proceedings before j udg'
ment, otherwise his motion will be too late.—Myers v. Overton, 2 Abbott, 344.

29. [1854.] The summons shall be served by delivering a copy
thereof, as follows : .

1st. If the suit be against a corporation, to the president or other
head of the corporation, secretary, cashier, or managing agent thereof.

2d. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years, to such
minor personally, and also to his father, mother, or guardian; or if
there be none within the state, then to any person having the care or

control of such minor, or with whom he resides, or in whose service he
is employed.

3d. If against a person judicially declared to be of unsound mind,
or incapable of conducting his own affairs, and for whom a guardian
has been appointed, to such guardian.

4th. In all other cases, to the defendant personally.

1. Service of a summons upon an elector upon an election day, is a void service.llleeks v. Noxon, 1 Abbott, 280; 11 How. Pr., 189; Bierce v. Smith, 2 Abbott, 411 ;
Hastings v. Farmer, 4 Coms., 296.

2. Service of summons on Sunday would be a void serviee.—Fz'eld v. Park, 20
John., 140'.

3. A complaint must be personally served, and such service must be by delivering
it to the defendant, or offering it to him within his reach, or laying it down within his
reach.—Van Rensselaer v. Petrie, 2 How. Pr., 94.

4. 1st. Service against a corporation cannot be made upon a person in possession
of the property, if not the president, head, secretary, or managing agent thereof.—Aiken v. Marzposa Quartz Rock Co., 6 Cal., 186.

5. The managing agent must be one whose agency extends to all the transactions of the corporation.—Brewster v. Michigan Central R. R. Co., 5 How. Pr., 183.

6. 2d. If the minor resides out of the state, a copy of the summons must he deposited in the post office and directed to the minor in the same manner as if it were over
the age of fourteen years.—G'ra_z/ v. Gray, 8 Cal., April T.

7. 3d. Service of a summons on a lunatic should be made personally, and also on
his guardian if he has any.——Heller v. Heller, 6 How. Pr., 194.

8. An action cannot be brought against a lunatic, judicially declared of an unsound
mind, without an application to the court.—Soverhill v. Dickson, 5 How. Pr., 109.

9. 4th. A judgment rendered Without personal service is invalid.—Parsons v. Davis,
3 Cal., 421.

30. When the person on whom the service is to be made, } resides
out of the state, or has departed from the state ; ‘or cannot, after due
diligence, be found within the state ; 'or conceals himself to avoid the
service of summons,'and the fact shall appear by aiiidavit to the satisfaction of the eourt,'or a judge thereof, or a county judge, and it shall
in like manner appear, that a cause of action exists against the defendant in respect to whom the service is to be made,,or that he is
a necessary or proper party to the action, such court or judge may grant
an order that the service be made by the publication of the summons.

1. The affidavit of the plaintifff ’s attorney, showing that the defendant conceals himself to avoid service of process, is suiiicient to obtain an order of publication.—Anderson v. Parker, 6 Cal., 201.

2. These facts must be stated positively, and not on information or belief.-—Evertson
v. Thomas, 5 How. Pr., 45.

31. The order shall direct the publication to be made in a newspaper to be designated as most likely to give notice to the person to be
served, and for such length of time as may be deemed reasonable, at
least once a week: Provided, that publication against a defendant residing out of the state, or absent therefrom, shall not be less than three
months. In case of publication where the residence of a non-resident
or absent defendant is known, the court or judge shall also direct a
copy of the summons and» complaint to be forthwith deposited in the
post—office, directed to the person to be served, at his place of residence.
When publication is ordered, personal service of a copy of the summons and complaint out of the state, shall be equivalent to publication
and deposit in the post—oliice. In either case, the service of the summons shall be deemed complete at the expiration of the time prescribed
by the order for publication. In actions upon contracts for the direct
payment of money, the court in its discretion may, instead of ordering
publication, or may, after publication, appoint an attorney to appear
for the non-resident, absent, or concealed defendant, and conduct the
proceedings on his part.

days after the granting of the order, is an irregularity which affects the title, and a purchaser will be relieved from his purchase thereof.—BacIc v. Crussell, ib., 386.

32. Where the action is against two or more defendants, and the
summons is served on one or more, but not on all of them, the plaintifff
may proceed as follows: .

1st. If the action be against the defendants jointly indebted upon a
contract, he may proceed against the defendant served, unless the court
otherwise direct; and if he recover judgment, it may be entered
against all the defendants thus jointly indebted, so far only as that it
may be enforced against the joint property of all, and the separate
property of the defendant served; or, 5 -w 5 4+2: 5 . I’ — .’~‘ 5}, ,5” ,'

. 2d. If the action be against defendants severally liable, he may proceed against the defendants served in the same manner as if they were
the only defendants.

1 . This section supersedes the common law remedy of out1awry.—Stearns v. Aguirre,
6 Cal., 183.

2. If the defendants are all served, though at different times, judgment against those

first served cannot be entered by the clerk, even in default of answer.——Stearns v.
Aguirre, 7 Cal., April T.

3. If the defendants are severally as well as jointly liable, the plaintifff may proceed
against those only who are served.—Stannard v. Mattice, 7 How. Pr., 4.

33. Proof of the service of the summons shall be as follows: ,

1st. If served by the sheriff or his deputy, the affidavit or certificate of such sheriff or deputy; or,

2d. If by any other person, his affidavit thereof ; or,

3d. In case of publication, the aiiidavit of the printer, or his foreman, or p_r_in_cipalg clerk, showing the same ; and an aiiidavit of a
deposit of a copy of the summons in the post-office, if the same shall
have been deposited; or, '

4th. The Written admission of the defendant.

1. The returns of a summon may be amended.—Dorente v. Sullivan, 7 Cal., Jan. T.

2. 1st. The return of a sheriff or an affidavit of a person acting in his place, of the
service of a summons, is not conclusive upon the defendant.— Van Rensselaer v. Chadwick, 7 How. Pr., 297.

3. 3d. The affidavit of a clerk, not stating that he is the principal clerk, is sufficient
if the affidavit shows him to be the only clerk.— Gray v. Gray, 8 Cal., April T.

34. In case of service otherwise than by publication, the certificate
or aihdavit shall state the time and place of the service.

1. The evidence of the place of service, if insutiicient to authorize the rendition of
the judgment, should have been taken advantage of, either upon appeal or on motion to
vacate the judgment.—Pico v. Sand, 6 Cal., 294.

35. From the time of the service of the summons and copy of complaint.in a civil action, the court shall be deemed to have acquired
jurisdiction, and to have control of all the subsequent proceedings. A
voluntary appearance of a defendant shall be equivalent to personal service of the summons upon him.

1. What constitutes an appearance’! See sec. 523.

2. An appearance 'by attorney amounts to a waiver of service.—Su_ydam v. Pitcher,
4 Cal., 280 ; Mahaney v. Penman, 4 Duer, 603.

3. A voluntary and general appearance, besides being equivalent to a personal service of the summons, is a waiver of all defects in summons and previous proceedings.Gardner v. Teller, 2 How. Pr., 241 ; Hill v. Smith, ib., 242 ; Mullcins v. Clark, 3 ib.,
27 ; Georgia Lumber Co. v. Strong, ib., 246 ; Dix v. Palmer, 5 ib., 233, 3 Code R., 214 ;
Flynn v. Hudson R. R. R. 0a., 6 How. Pr., 308; lVebb v. Mott, ib., 439; Hewitt v.
Howell, 8 ib., 346; Carpenter v. New York gfr New Haven R. R. Co., 11 ib., 481 ; II}/de
v. Patterson, 1 Abbott, 248.

TITLE IV.

OF THE PLEADINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

F03 INTERVENTION, sm: SECTIONS 659, E1‘. BBQ.

36. The pleadings are the formal allegations by the parties of
their respective claims and defenses, for the judgment of the court.

1. Pleadings must be strongly taken against the pleader.—C'hipman v. Emeric, 5
Cal., 49. i

2. The mode of taking advantage of defective pleadings discussed.— White v. Joy, °

3 Kern., 83.

37. All the forms of pleadings in civil actions, and the rules by
which the sulliciency of the pleadings shall be determined, shall be
those prescribed in this act.

1. All rules of pleading that are merely technical, are abolished by this act.—Cobb
v. West, 4 Duer, 44.

38. (1855.) The only pleading on the part of the plaintiff shall be

the complaint, or demurrer to the defendant’s answer, and the only
pleading on the part of the defendant shall be the demurrer, or the
answer. The demurrer or answer of the defendant shall be filed with

the clerk of the court, and a copy thereof served upon the plaintifff or
his attorney: Provided, the plaintifff or his attorney reside within the
county where the action is pending. 39. The complaint shall contain:

1st. The title of the action, specifying the name of the court and
the name of the county in which the action is brought, and the name
of the parties to the action, plaintifff and defendant.

2d. A statement of the facts constituting the cause of action, in
ordinary aIi'd concise language.

3d. , A demand of the relief which the plaintifff claims. If the
recovery of money or damages be demanded, the amount thereof shall

be stated.

41. The demurrer shall distinctly specify the grounds upon which

any of the objections to the complaint are taken. Unless it do so, it
may be disregarded.

42. The defendant may demur to the Whole complaint, or to one
or more of several causes of action stated therein, and answer the residue ; or may demur and answer at the same time.

1. After an extension of time to answer, the defendant may put in a demurrer
instead of answering.-—Bmd/aead v. Brod/Lead, 3 Code R., 8.

2. The defendant cannot demur to part and answer another part of a complaint
which contains but one cause of action stated in one count. In other words, a defendant cannot demur to part of a cause of action.—IngraIzam v. Baldwin, 12 Barb., 9.

43. [1854, 1855.] If the complaint be amended, a copy of the
amendments shall be filed, or the court may, in its discretion, require
the complaint as amended, to be filed, and a copy of the amendments
shall be served upon every defendant to be affected thereby, or upon
his attorney, if he has appeared by attorney; the defendant shall
answer in such time as may be ordered by the court, and judgment
by default may be entered upon failure to answer, as in other cases.

1. The plaintifff has no right to amend his complaint by striking out the name of
one or more parties, without leave of the court.—Russell v. Spear, 5 How. Pr., 142.

44. When any of the matters enumerated in section forty do not

appear upon the face of the complaint, the objection may be taken by
answer.

45. If no such objection be taken, either by demurrer or answer,
the defendant shall be deemed to have waived the same, excepting
only the objection to the jurisdiction of the court, and the objection
that the complaint does not state facts suiiicient to constitute a cause
of action.

1. The failing to demur does not waive the right of defendant to object on the trial
for the first time that the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action.—Higgzns v. Freeman, 2 Ducr, 650; Montgomery County Bank v. Albany City

Bank, 3 Seld., 459.

2. An incurable defect is not waived by any pleading, but may be taken advantage
of whenever the parties are before the court, either by motion, or on the trial, by motion in arrest after verdict.—Burnlzam v. DeBevorse, 8 How. Pr., 159; St. John v. Northrup, 23 Barb., 30.

46. [1854.] The answer of the defendant shall contain:

1st. If the complaint be verified, a specific denial to each allegation of the complaint controverted by the defendant, or a denial
thereof, according to his information and belief; if the complaint be
not veriiied, then a general denial to each of such allegations, but a
general denial shall only put in issue the material and express allegar
tions of the complaint; '

2nd. A statement of any new matter constituting a defense, in
ordinary and concise language.

the complaint as the foundation of the plainti&"s claim, or connected
with the subject of the action:

2d. In an action arising upon contract, any other cause of action

arising also upon contract, and existing at the commencement of the
action.

1. A set-olf must be pleaded in answer.—Bernard v. Mullet, 1 Cal., 368 ; Hicks v.
Green, 8 Cal., Jan. T.; Bogardus v. Parker, 7 How. Pr., 301.

2. To authorize a set-oif at law, the debts must be between the parties in their own

rights, and must be of the same kind or quality, and be clearly ascertained or liquidated; they must be certain and determined debts.—Naglee v. Palmer, 7 Cal., April T.

3. A statement of set-off is a defense.—Ranney v. Smith, 6 How. Pr., 420; Willis v.
Taggard, ib., 433.

4. A counterclaim defined and discussed.—Silliman v. Eddy, 8 ib., 122.
5. A counterclaim is a cross demand.—Davidson v. Remington, 12 ib., 310.

6. A defendant cannot set up as a counterclaim a note made by the plaintifff, unless
it was due and belonged to the defendant when the action was commenced.— Van Valen
v. Lapham, 13 ib., 240; 5 Duer, 689.

7. After a set-off is pleaded and admitted, the plaintifff cannot discontinue as a matter of course.—C'oc/de v. Uiiderwood, 1 Abbott, 1; 3 Duer, 676 ; contra, Rees v. Van
Patten, 13 How. Pr., 258.

8. If the counterclaim is not admitted, the plaintiti‘ may discontinue.—Seabord ,5Roanolce R. R. Co. v. Ward,l Abbott, 46 ; Oalcsmith v Sutherland, 4 ib., 15.

9. A counterclaim may arise out of claims either legal or equitable.—Lemon v.
Trull, 13 How. Pr., 248. '

10. Where in an action on contract the plaintifff recovers less than fifty dollars, but
extinguishes a counterclaim set up in the answer which exceeds that amount, neither
party is entitled to costs.— Kalt v. Lignot, 3 Abbott, 33, 190.

11. A set-off cannot he pleaded by one of several defendants sued on joint liability.
—Peabody v. Bloomer, ib., 353.

12. In an action by the assignee of a claim, a demand existing prior to the assignment in favor of the defendant, and against the assignor, is unavailable as a counter

claim; it must he pleaded as a defense.—Ferreira v. Depew, 4 Abbott, 131 ; Dillaye v.
Niles, ib., 253. A

13. Counter claims embrace both set-off and recoupments under the old system.—
Pattison v. Richards, 22 Barb., 143.

14. In considering a counterclaim upon demurrer to it for alleged insufficiency,
the facts alleged in the complaint which are not inconsistent with the avermcnts in the
counterclaim, are to be taken as admitted.—Graham v. Dunnigan, 4 Abbott, 426.

48. When cross demands have existed between persons, under
such circumstances, that if one had brought an action against the
other, a counterclaim could have been set up, neither shall be deprived of the benefit thereof, by the assignment or death of the other; but

the two demands shall be deemed compensated, so far as they equal
each other.

49. The defendant may set forth by answer as many defenses and
counterclaims as he may have. They shall each be separately stated,
and the several defenses shall refer to the causes of action which they
are intended to answer, in a manner by which they may be intelligibly
distinguished.

1. The separate grounds of defense, separately stated, take the place of separate
pleas.—Cobb v. Frazee, 4 How. Pr., 413.

2. The court must take notice of equitable as well as legal set-offs and defenses.— ,
Jliller V. Losee, 9 ib., 356.

3. Plea in abatement may be joined with a plea in bar.—Sweet v. Tuttle, 10 ib., 40.

4. A defendant may avail himself of as many defenses as he may have, but each
must be separately stated, and be consistent in itself.—Porter v. Mc Creed;/, 1 Code R.,
N. S., 88.

50. [1854.] When the answer contains new matter, the plaintifff

‘may demur to the same for insufiiciency, stating in his demurrer the
‘ -grounds thereof, and he may also demur to one or more of several

defenses set up in the answer; sham and irrelevant answers and defenses may be stricken out on motion, and upon such terms as the

court in its discretion may impose. 3 s :1 5' J. ; . 5  .

I

51. Every pleading shall be subscribed by the party or his attor' ney, and when the complaint is verified (a) by affidavit, the answer shall
be verified also, except as provided in the next section.

1. The word “ attorney” refers to the attorney at law, and not in fact. A pleading
subscribed by an attorney in fact, without authority so to do, is void.—Dixey v. Pollock,
7 Cal., Oct. T.

2. An answer unverified to a verified complaint, may be stricken out on motion,
and application for a judgment as upon default may be made at the same time.—Drum

v. Whiting, 8 Cal., April T. ‘

52. The verification of the answer required in the last section may
be omitted when an admission of the truth of the complaint might subject the party to prosecution for felony.

1. This provision sustained in—Drum v. Whiting, 8 Cal., April T.; Blaisdell v.
Raymond, 5 Abbott, 144.

53. When an action is brought upon a written instrument, and
the complaint contains a copy of such instrument, or a copy is annexed thereto, the genuineness and due execution of such instrument
shall be deemed admitted, unless the answer denying the same be

verified.

I. In an actibn on a promissory note by a special endorsee against the maker, the
plaintifff must prove at the trial the genuineness of the endorsements, although the defendant has not denied their genuineness under oath.-—Grogan v. Ruclcle, 1 Cal., 158.

2. A party is not required to deny an endorsement under oath.—Youngs v. Bell, 4
Cal., 201.

54. When the defense to an action is founded upon a. written instrument and a copy thereof is contained in the answer, or a copy is
annexed thereto, the genuineness and due execution of such instrument shall be deemed admitted, unless the plaintifff file with the clerk
five days previous to the commencement of the term at which the
action is to be tried, an affidavit denying the same.

55. In all cases of the verification of a plwiing, the aliidavit of
the party shall state that the same is true of his own knowledge, except

57. If irrelevant or redundant matter be inserted in a pleading, it
may be stricken out by the court on motion of any person aggrieved

thereby.

1. On a motion to strike out, the papers should point out the precise parts at which
the objections are airned.—Benedz'ct v. Duke, 6 How. Pr., 352. '

2. This motion is not a substitute for deinurrer.—Harlow v. Hamilton, 6 How. Pr.,

475; Bement v. Wisner, 1 Code R.. N. S., 143.

58. In an action for the recovery of real property, such property
shall be described, with its metes and bounds, in the complaint.

1. Where a declaration describes land by a certain name, this is as good ‘a description as one by metes and bounds, if it can be rendered sufficiently certain by evidence.Chstro v. Gill, 5 Cal., 40.

2. Actions for the foreclosure of a mortgage.are not governed by this section.-Emeric
v. Tams, 6 Cal., 155. '

3. A complaint defective in a proper description is demurrable.—Du_17‘_y v. Brady, -1
Abbott, 432.

4. Actions to enforce a mechanic’s lien are governed by this 'se'ction.—Montrose v.
Conner, 7 Cal., Oct. T. '

59. In pleading a judgment, or other determination of a court or
officer of especial jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary to state the facts
conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment or determination may be
stated to have been duly given or made. If such allegation b_e controverted, the party pleading shall be bound to establish on the trial the
facts conferring jurisdiction. '

1. It is a good defense to an action upon a judgment, whether brought by the original judgment creditor or his assignee, that the judgment was fraudulently obtained.Dobson v. Pearce, 1 Abbott, 97 ; 2 Kem., 156.

60. In pleading the performance of conditions precedent in a con- _

tract, it shall not be necessary to state the facts showing such performance ; but it may be stated generally that the party duly performed all
the conditions on his part; and if such allegation be controverted, the
party pleading shall establish on the trial the facts showing such performance.

64. [1855.] The plaintifff may unite several causes of action in
the same complaint, when they all arise out of1st. Contracts, express or implied ; or,

2d. Claims to recover specific real property, with or without damages, for the withholding thereof, or for waste committed thereon, and
the rents and profits of the same ; or,

3d._ Claims to recover speciiic personal property, with or without
damages, for the withholding thereof ; or,

4th. Claims against a trustee by virtue of a contract, or by operation of law; or,

5th. Injuries to character; or,
6th. Injuries to person; or,

7th. Injuries to property. But the causes of action so united shall
all belong to only one of these classes, and shall affect all the partiesto
the action, and not require different places of trial, and shall be_s3pgately stated;

 

Provided, however, that an action for malicious arrest and prosecution, or either of them, may be united with an action for either an injury
to character, or to the person.

67. [1854.] After demurrer, and before the trial of issue on demurrer, either party may, within ten days, amend any pleading demurred to, of course, and without costs, filing the same as amended, and
serving a copy thereof upon the adverse party or his attorney, who
shall have ten days to answer or demur thereto, if the pleading be a
complaint, or to demur thereto if it be an answer; but a party shall
not so amend more than once. When a demurrer to a complaint is
overruled, and there is no answer filed, the court may, upon such terms
as shall be just, and upon payment of costs, allow the defendant to file
an answer. If a demurrer to the answer be overruled, the facts alleged in the answer shall still be considered as denied.

1. A pleading which does not admit of an answer cannot be amended under this
section.—Plumb v. Wlzipples, 7 How. Pr., 411.

68. [1853.] The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on
such terms as may be proper, amend any pleading or proceedings by
adding or striking out the name of any party,‘£or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party,l or a mistake in any other respect, and
may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for an answer or demurrer, or
demurrer to an answer filed. The court may likewise, upon affidavit
showing good cause therefore, after notice to the adverse party, allow,
upon such terms as may be just,’ an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars ; land may, upon like terms, allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this act and may, upon
such terms as may be just, and upon payment of costs, relieve a party
or his legal representatives from a judgment, order, or other proceeding
taken against him through his mistake, inadvertcnce, surprise, or excusable neglect. lWhen from any cause the summons and a copy of the
‘complaint in an action have not been personally served on the defend’ ant, the court may allow, on such terms as may be just, such defend‘ ant or his legal representatives, at any time within six months after the

rendition of any judgment in such action, to answer to the merits of the
original action.

\

name ; and when his true name is discovered, the pleading or proceeding may be amended accordingly.

1. Morgan v. T hrzji, 2 Cal., 562.

2. The name of the defendant cannot be changed after service, without notice.M’Nalley v. Matt, 3 Cal., 285 ; Smith v. C’u.rtz's, 7 Cal., Apr. T.

.3. If a name be altered. and the party afterwards appear and answer, the alteration
will be held valid.—Smith v. Curtis, 7 Cal., April T.

4. It is not allowable for a plaintifff to use a fictitious name at his discretion, but
only when heis ignorant of the true name.—C'2-andall v. Beach, 7 How. Pr., 271.

70. In the construction of a pleading for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations shall be liberally construed, with a view

to substantial justice between the parties.

71. The court shall, in every stage of an action, disregard any
error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings, which shall not aliect

-the substantial rights of the parties, and no judgment'shall be reversed

or affected by reason of such error or defect.

l. The error in an answer entitled in the “supreme,” instead of the “superior,”
court, may be disregarded.-— Williams v. Sholto, 4 Sand., 641.,

TIT‘LE V.
or THE PROVISIONAL REMEDIES IN CIVIL ACTIONS.
CHAPTER I.

ARREST AND BAIL.

72. No person shall be arrested in a civil action, except as prescribed by this act.

73. The defendant may be arrested as hereinafter prescribed, in
the following cases arising after the passage of this act: (a)

1st. In an action for the recovery of money or damages on a cause
of action arising upon contract express or implied, when the defendant
is about to depart from the State, with intent to defraud his creditors,
or when the action is for willful injury to person, to character, or to
property, knowing the property to belong to another.

2d. In an action for a fine or penalty, or for money or property embezzled, or fraudulently misapplied, or converted to his own use, by a
public officer, or an officer of a corporation, or an attorney, factor, broker, agent, or clerk, in the course of his employment as such, or by
any other person in a fiduciary capacity, or for misconduct or neglect
in office, or in a professional employment; or for a willful violation of
duty.

3d. In an action to recover the possession of personal property, unjustly detained, when the property, or any part thereof, has been concealed, removed, or disposed of, so that it cannot be found or taken by

the sheriff.

77. The order may be made to accompany the summons, or any
time afterwards, before judgment. It shall require the sheriff of the
county where the defendant may be found forthwith to arrest‘him and
hold him to bail in a specified sum, and to return the order at a time
therein mentioned to the clerk of the court in which the action is
pending.

78. The order of arrest, with a copy of the affidavit upon which it
is made, shall be delivered to the sheriff, who, upon arresting the defendant, shall deliver to him the copy of the affidavit; and also, if

desired, a copy of the order of arrest.

79. The sheriff shall execute the order by arresting the defendant
and keeping him in custody until discharged by law.

80. The defendant, at any time before execution, shall be discharged from the arrest either upon giving bail, or upon depositing the
amount mentioned in the order of arrest, as provided in this chapter.

81. The defendant may give bail by causing a written undertaking
to be executed by two or more sufficient sureties, stating their places

of residence and occupations, to the effect that they are bound in the

amount mentioned in the order of arrest; that the defendant shall at
all times render himself amenable to the process of the court, during
the pendencyof the action, and to such as may be issued to enforce
the judgment therein; or that they will pay to the plaintifff the amount
of any judgment which may be recovered in the action.‘

See Sec. 650.

1. The sheriff is bound to take bail provided they are sufficient. If he refuses, he
is liable.—Richards V. Porter, 7 John., 137 ; Dash v. Van Kleeclc, ib., 477.

82. At any time before judgment, or within ten days thereafter,
the bail may surrender the defendant in their exoneration, or he may
surrender himself to /the sheriff of the county where he was arrested.

1. Where a party offered to surrender himself in discharge of his sureties, held to
be a good surrender, and a discharge of the sureties from all 1iabi1ity.—Allen v. Breslauer, 7 Cal., Oct. T. ; Babb v. Oakley, 5 Cal., 93.

2. A judgment by default will not authorize the entry of a judgment on the allegations of fraud, if the summons fail to apprise the defendant of this fact.—Porter v. Hermann, 7 Cal., Oct. T.

83. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the bail at any
time or place before they are finally charged, may themselves arrest
him ; or by a written authority, endorsed on a certified copy of the
undertaking, may empower the sheriff to do so. Upon the arrest of
the defendant by the sheriff, or upon his delivery to the sheriff by the
bail, or upon his own surrender, the bail shall be exonerated : Provided,
such arrest, delivery or surrender, take place before the expiration of
ten days after judgment, but if such arrest, delivery or surrender be
not made within ten days after judgment, the bail shall be finally
charged on their undertaking, and be bound to pay the amount of the
judgment within ten days thereafter.

1. The authority to arrest need not be signed by all the bail. The authority of some
is good. Ex-parte Taylor, 7 How. Pr., 212.

84. -[1854.] If the bail neglect or refuse to pay the judgment
within ten days after they are finally charged, an action may be commenced against such bail for the amount of such original judgment.

1. Bail are estopped from controverting the right of plaintifff to arrest. Gregory v.
Levy, 12 Barb., 610; 7 How. Pr., 37.

2. Secs. 83 and 84 fully discussed in Matwn v. Eder, 6 Cal., 57.

85. The bail shall also be exonerated bythe death of the defendant, or his imprisonment in a state prison ; or by his legal discharge
from the obligation to render himself amenable to the process.

86. Within the time limited for that purpose, the sherif shall file
the order of arrest in the office of the clerk of the court in which the
action is pending, with his return endorsed thereon, together with a
copy of the undertaking of the bail. The original undertaking he
shall retain in his possession until filed, as herein provided. The plaintiii‘, within ten days thereafter, may serve upon the sheriff a notice
that he does not accept the bail, or he shall be deemed to have accepted them, and the sheriff shall be exonerated from liability. If no notice be served within ten days, the original undertaking shall be filed
with the clerk of the court.

87. Within five days after the receipt of notice, the sheriff' or
defendant may give to the plaintifff, or his attorney, notice of the justification of the same, or other bail, (specifying the places of residence

and occupations of the latter,) before a judge of the court or county
judge, or county clerk, at a specified time and place; the time to be
not less than five, nor more than ten days thereafter, except by consent of parties. In case other bail be given there shall be a new
undertaking. '

88. The qualifications of bail shall be as follows:

1st. Each of them shall be a resident, and householder, or freeholder, within the county. _

2d. Each shall be worth the amount specifiedin the order of arrest,
or the amount to which the order is reduced, as provided in this chapter, over and above all his debts and liabilities, exclusive of property
exempt from execution; but the judge, or county clerk, on justification, may allow more than two sureties to justify severally, in amounts
less than that expressed in the order, if the whole justification be
equivalent to that of two sufiicient bail. a

See Sec. 650.

89. For the purpose of justification, each of the bail shall attend
before the judge or county clerk at the time and place mentioned in
the notice, and may be examined on oath, on the part of the plaintifff,
touching his sufiiciency, in such manner as the judge or county clerk
in his discretion may think proper. The examination shall be reduced
to writing, and subscribed by the bail, if required by the plaintifff.

90. If the judge or clerk’ find the bail suiiicient, he shall annex
the examination to the undertaking, endorse his allowance thereon, and

cause them to be filed, and the sheriff shall thereupon be exonerated
from liability. . ‘

91. The defendant may, at the time of his arrest,‘ instead of giving
bail, deposit with the sheriff the amount mentioned in the order. ” In
case the amount of the bail be reduced, as provided in this chapter,
the defendant may deposit such amount instead of giving bail. In
either case, the sheriff shall give the defendant a certificate of the deposit made, and the defendant shall be discharged out of custody.

92. The sheriff shall immediately after the deposit pay the same
into court, and take from the clerk receiving the same, two certificates

of such payment ; the one of which he shall deliver or transmit to the
plaintifff, or his attorney, and the other to the defendant. For any
default in making such payment the same proceedings may be had on
the official bond of the sheriff, to collect the sum deposited, as in other

cases of delinquency.

93. If money be deposited, as provided in the last two sections,
bail may be given, and may justify upon notice, at any time before
judgment; and on the filing of the undertaking and justification with
the clerk, the money deposited shall be refunded by such clerk to the

defendant.

94. Where money shall have been deposited, if it remain on deposit at the time of the recovery of a judgment in favor of the plaintifff,
the clerk shall, under the direction of the court, apply the same in satisfaction thereof; and after satisfying the judgment, shall refund the
Surplus, if any, to the defendant. If the judgment be in favor of the
defendant, the clerk shall, under like direction of the court, refund to

him the whole sum deposited and remaining unapplied.

95. If, after being arrested, the defendant escape or be rescued,
the sheriff shall himself be liable as bail ; but he may discharge himself from such liability, by the giving and justification of bail, at any

A time before judgment.

1. A sheriff cannot be allowed to allege error either in the judgment or process as
an excuse for an escape.—Hutchz'nson v. Brand, 6 How. Pr., 73.

2. Where the bail given for the defendant upon his arrest are excepted to and do
not justify, and no other bail are given, nor a deposit made, the sheriff becomes liable
as bail.—BucIcman v. Carnley, 9 How. Pr., 180 ; Sartos v. Merceques, 9 ib., 188.

3. The sheriff may as bail re-arrest the defendant without process.—Sartos v. Mew"ceques, 9 How. Pr., 188.

96. If a judgment be recovered against the sheriff, upon his
liability as bail, and an execution thereon be returned unsatisfied in
Whole or in part, the same proceedings may be had on his official bond,
for the recovery of the whole or any deficiency, as in other cases of
delinquency.

97. A defendant arrested may at any time before the justification
of bail, apply to the judge who made the order, or- the court in which

the action is pending, upon reasonable notice to the plaintifff to vacate
the order of arrest, or to reduce the amount of bail. If the application be made upon aiiidavits, on the part of the defendant, but not
otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose the same by aiiidavits or other
proofs, in addition to those on which the order of arrest was made.

1. A person once arrested and discharged cannot be re-arrested in the same action
upon the same grounds.—Mc Gilt-er_y v. Morehead, 2 Cal., 607.

2. A motion to vacate an order of arrest must be made before the bail have justified
if excepted to, or before the time to except expires.—Lewz's v. Truesdell, 1 Code R., N.
S., 106; Barker v. Dillon, ib., 206 ; Overill v. Durkec, 2 Abbott, 383 ; 12 How. Pr.,

'94; G'aj'ney v. Burton, 12 ib., 516.

3. On a motion to discharge if the judge is satisfied of the fraud, he should of course
deny the motion.—Chapin v. Seeley, 13 How. Pr., 490 ; Barron v. Sanford, 14 ib., 443.

98. If upon such application it shall satisfactorily appear that there
was not suiiicient cause for the arrest, the order shall be vacated ; or

if it satisfactorily appear that the bail was fixed too high, the amount
shall be reduced.

CHAPTER II.
CLAIMS FOR DELIVERY or PERSONAL PROPERTY.

99. The plaintifff, in an action to recover the possession of personal
property, may, at the time of issuing the summons, or at any time before answer, claim the delivery of such property to him, as provided in
this chapter.

101. [1854.] The plaintifff or his attorney may thereupon by an
endorsement in writing upon the affidavit, require the sheriff of the

county where the property claimed may be, to take the same from the
A defendant.

1 . The sheriff will, however, be liable to the owner who has his legal remedy against

any one for the taking, unless it be by virtue of legal process against him.—RIwdcs v.
Patterson,3 Cal., 469.

102. [1854.] Upon a receipt of the affidavit and notice, with a.
written undertaking, executed by two or more sufficient sureties, approved by the sheriff, to the effect that they are bound to the defendant
in double the value of the property, as stated in the affidavit for the

‘prosecution of the action, for the return of the property to the defendant, if return thereof be adjudged, and for the payment to him of
such sum as may from any cause he recovered against the plaintifff, the
sheriff shall forthwith take the property described in the affidavit, if it
be in the possession of the defendant or his agent, and retain it in his
custody. He shall also, without delay, serve on the defendant a copy
of the affidavit, notice and undertaking, by delivering the same to him
personally, if he can be found, or to his agent from whose possession
the property is taken; or if neither can be found, by leaving them at
the usual place of abode of either, with some person of suitable age
and discretion; or if neither have any known place of abode, by put
ting them in the nearest post-office, directed to the defendant.

103. The defendant may, within two days after the service of a
copy of the affidavit and undertaking, give notice to the sheriff that
he excepts to the sufficiency of the sureties. If he fails to do so, he
shall be deemed to have waived all objection to them. When the defendant excepts, the sureties shall justify on notice in like manner
as upon bail on arrest; and the sheriff shall be responsible for
the sufficiency of the sureties until the objection to them is either
waived, as above provided, or until they justify. If the defendant except to the sureties, he cannot reclaim the property as provided in the
next section. §\ "3 .. r 104. At any time before the delivery of the property to the plaintifff, the defendant may, if he do not except to the sureties of the plaintifff, require the return thereof, upon giving to the sheriff a Written
undertaking, executed by two or more sufiicient sureties, to the effect
that they are bound in double the value of the property, as stated in
the affidavit of the plaintifff, for the delivery thereof to the plaintiff, if
such delivery be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as
may, for any cause, be recovered against the defendant. If a return
of the property be not so required within five days after the taking and
service of notice to the defendant, it shall be delivered to the plaintifff,
except as provided in section one hundred and nine.

.105. The defendant’s sureties, upon notice to the _plainti1l' Jof not
less than two nor more than five days, shall justify before a judge or
county clerk, in the same manner as upon bail on arrest; and upon
such justification, the sherili‘ shall deliver the property to the defendant. The sheriff shall be responsible for the defendant’s sureties until

they justify, or until the justification is completed or expressly waived,

and may retain the property until that time ; but if they, or others in their

place, fail to justify at the time and place appointed, he shall deliver
the property to the plaintifff.

106. The qualification of sureties and their justification shall be
such as are prescribed by this act, in respect to bail upon an order of

arrest.  50.4.  107. If the property, or any part thereof, be concealed in a building or enclosure, the sheriff shall publicly demand its delivery; if it
be not delivered, he shall cause the building or enclosure to be broken
open, and take the property into his possession; and if necessary, he
may call to his aid the power of his county.

108. When the sheriff shall have taken property, as in this chapter
provided, he shall keep itin a secure place, and deliver it to the party
entitled thereto, upon receiving his lawful fees for taking, and his necessary expenses for keeping the same.

109. If the property taken be claimed by any other person than the
defendant or his agent, and such person make affidavit of his title
thereto] or right to the pos_se§s_i9n thereof, stating the grounds of such title
or right, and serve the same upon the sheriff, the sheriff shall not
be bound to keep the property, or deliver it to the plaintiff, unless
the plaintifff, on demand of him or his agent, indemnify the sheriff
against such claim, by an undertaking, by two sufficient sureties, accompanied by their affidavits, that they are each worth double the
value of the property as specified in the affidavit of the plaintifff, over
and above their debts and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from
execution, and are freeholders or householders in the county; and no
claim to such property by any other person than the defendant or his
agent, shall be valid against the sheriff, unless so made.

See Sec. 650.

‘ 114. An injunction shall not be allowed after the defendant has
answered, unless upon notice, or upon an order to show cause ; but in
such case the defendant may be restrained until the decision of the
court or judge, granting or refusing the injunction.

115. On granting an injunction, the court or judge shall require,
except where the people of the state are a party plaintifff, a written
undertaking, on the part of the plaintifff, with sufficient sureties,
to the effect that the plaintifff will pay to the party enjoined such damages, not exceeding an amount to be specified, as such party may
sustain by reason of the injunction, if the court finally decide that the
plaintifff was not entitled thereto.

See Sec. 650.

1. An injunction order is inoperative unless the undertaking be given.—Elliott v.
Osborne, 1 Cal., 396.

2. The court may order a reference to ascertain the damages sustained by an injunction issued without cause.—Russell v. Elliott, 2 Cal., 245; Sullivan v. Judah, 4

Paige, 444.

3. A party filing an undertaking to obtain an injunction, is deemed to have waived
the right to insist on a trial by jury ; and consented that the damages may be ascertained in the mode prescribed by the statute ; and an order of reference is no violation of the
constitutional right to trial by jury.- Russell v. Elliott, 2 Cal., 245.

4. For suits on undertakings, see Morgan v. Thrift, 2 Cal., 562; Gelston v. Whitesides, 3 Cal., 309 ; Cunningham v. Breed, 4 Cal., 384. '

5. In suit on undertaking, counsel fees in having injunction dissolved, allowed.—Ah
.'Ihaie v. Quan Wan, 3 Cal., 216 : Coates v. Coates, 1 Duer, 664.

6. An action on the case will not lie for improperly suing out an injunction, unless
it is charged in the declaration as abuse, or without probable cause. The remedy is on
the appeal bond.—Robz'nson v. Kellum, 6 Cal., 399.

116. If the court or judge deem it proper that the defendant, or
any of several defendants, should be heard before granting the injunction, an order may be made requiring cause tobe shown, at a specified
time and place, why the injunction should not be granted; and the
defendant may, in the mean time, be restrained.

117. An injunction to suspend the general and ordinary business
of a corporation, shall not be granted except by the court; nor shall
it be granted without due notice of the application therefore to the
proper oiiicers of the corporation, except when the people of this state
are a party to the proceeding.

118. If an injunction be granted without notice, the defendant, at
any time before the trial, may apply upon reasonable notice, to the
judge who granted the injunction, or to the court in which the action
is brought, to dissolve or modify the same. The application may be
made upon the complaint and the aiiidavit on which the injunction was
granted, or upon aiiidavit on the part of the defendant, with or without the answer. If the application be made upon aiiidavits on the part
of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiE may oppose the same
by affidavits, or other evidence in‘ addition to those on which the injunction was granted.

1. When an injunction is granted on a verified complaint, and defendant moves on
a verified answer to dissolve the injunction, the plaintifff is entitled, on the motion, to
read additional affidavits in support of the complaint, if the defendant by his answer
sets up new matter in avoidance.—Jaques v. Areson, 4 Abbott, 282 ; Powell v. Clark, 5
ib., 70.

2. A motion to vacate an injunction once denied, cannot be renewed unless leave
be reserved or some new ground in vacating arise.—IIoj'man v. Livingston, 1 John. Ch.
11., 211.

119. If upon such application it satisfactorily appear that there is
not suiiicient ground for the injunction, it shall be dissolved ; or if it

satisfactorily appear that the extent of the injunction is too great, it
shall be modified.

1. No appeal is allowed from an order refusing to dissolve an injunction.—Martin
v. Travers, 7 Cal., Jan. T.

2. The court may modify the injunction on a motion ex parte, if it were granted at
parte.—F1-emont v. Merced Zllining 00., 8 Cal., Jan. T. .

Viv"

CHAPTER IV.
ATTACHMENT. (a)

120. [1853, 1858.] The plaintifff, at the time of issuing the summons, or any time afterwards, may have the property of the defendant n 1
attached, as security for the satisfaction of any judgment that may be

recovered, unless the defendant give security to pay such judgment,
in the following cases :

1st. Where the debtor is not a resident of this state ;

2d. When the debtor has absconded or absented himself from his
usual place of abode, or is about to abscond or absent himself, so that
the ordinary process of law cannot be served upon him ;

3d. When the debtor conceals himself, so that the ordinary process
of law cannot be served upon him ;

4th. Where the debtor has removed, or is about to remove, any of his
property or effects out of the state, to the injury of his creditors, or with
the intent to hinder, delay, or defraud them ;

5th. Where the debtor has fraudulently conveyed, assigned, or other—
wise diposed of, oris about to fraudulently convey, assign, or otherwise
dispose of his property or efects with the intent to hinder, delay ordefraud his creditors ;

6th. Where the debtor has fraudulently concealed, or is about to

fraudulently conceal his property or effects, with the intent to hinder,
delay, or defraud his creditors ;

7th. Where the debtor fraudulently contracted the debt, or incurred
the obligation respecting which the suit is brought.

business, but intended, even if successful, to leave it in charge of a clerk and return;
held, that he was not a no'n-resident.—Hurlbut_v. Seeley, 2 Abbott, 138 ; 11 How. Pr., 597.

5. Where a party has been attached as a non-resident, he may move to discharge
the attachment on the ground of his being a resident, and the court will grant a reference to ascertain the fact without an undertaking from defendant.—Killian v. Washington, 2 Code R., 78.

121. [1853, 1858.] The clerk of the court shall issue the writ of
attachment upon receiving an affidavit by or on behalf of the plaintiil,
which shall be filed, showing :

1st. That the defendant is indebted to the plaintid in a certain sum
(specifying the amount of such indebtedness,) over and above all legal
set-offs or counterclaims, upon a contract express or implied, for the
direct payment of money, and that such ‘contract was made or is payable in this state, and that the payment of the same has not been secured by any mortgage on real or personal property;

2d. That the defendant has good reason to believe, and does believe,
that one or more of the causes set forth in the several sub-divisions of
the next preceding section actually exists at the time of making the ajidavit, reciting the facts upon whichisuch belief is founded.

1. Attachment only given in cases of indebtedness arising out of contract.-—G'ris~
wold v. Sharp, 2 Cal., 17.

2. The contract must be made in this state, or must contain a stipulation that the
money is to be paid here, to authorize an attachment.—Dulton v. Shelton, 3 Cal., 206.

3. The affidavit must state whether the contract is express or implied, and not state
it in the alternative.—Hawley v. Delmas, 4 Cal., 195.

4. The sureties are estopped from controverting that the defendant was not a nonresident.—Haggart v. Morgan, 1 Seld., 422.

5. What constitutes a non-resident within the meaning of- the law relating to attachments.——Hurlbut v. Seeley, 2' Abbott, 138; 11 How. Pr., 507.

6. The affidavit is insuilicient if neither plaintifff nor defendant is individually
named therein.—Burgess v. Stitt, 12 ib., 401.

122. Before issuing the writ, the clerk shall require a. written undertaking on the part of the plaintiii','in a sum not less than two hundred dollars, nor exceeding the amount claimed by the plaintifff, with
suilicient sureties to the effect, that if the defendant recover judgment,
or if the attachment should be dismissed, the plaintifff‘ will pay all costs
that may be awarded to the defendant, and all damage which he may

sustain by reason of the attachment, not exceeding the sum specified
in the undertaking.

See Secs. 140, 650.

1. For suit on attachment bond see Heath v. Lent, 1 Cal., 410; Benedict v. Bray,
2 Cal., 251, and Ah Thaie v. Quan Wan, 3 Cal., 216, overruling part of Heath v. Lent.

2. The undertaking must precede the writ and accompany the aiiidavit.—Benedict v. Bray, 2 Cal., 251.

3. The undertaking is not required to be executed in form to the defendant; the law
only specifies the conditions it shall contain.—Taajia v. Rosenthall, 7 Cal., April T.

4. An attachment issued without an undertaking of a plaintifff and a surety would
be irregular and perhaps void.—Bennett v. Brown, 1 Code R., N. S., 267.

123. The writ shall be directed to the sheriff of any county in
which property of such defendant may be, and require him to attach
and safely keep all the property of such defendant within his county,
not exempt _from execution, or so much thereof as may be sufficient to

satisfy the plaintifff ’s demand, the amount of which shall be stated ___in
‘conformity with the complaint, unless the defendant give him security

a:...,a.K..«_. --_.....__..

by the‘ undertaking of at least two suiiicient sureties, in an amount
sufficient to satisfy such demand, besides costs; in which case to take

such undertaking. Several writs may be issued at the same time, to
the sheriffs of different counties.

See Sec. 650.
1. For suit against a sheriff for not attaching, see Strong v. Patterson, 6 Cal., 156.

2. The bond only operates to release the property from the custody of the sheriff,

pending the suit, and is not an actual substitution of security.—Low v. Adams, 6 Cal.,
277.

3. Funds in hands of a receiver appointed by a competent court, are not liable to
attachment.—Adams v. Haskell, 6 Cal., 113 ; Yuba County v. Adams, 7 Cal., Jan. T.

4. Attaching and judgment creditors prior to the decree of dissolution of partnership effects are entitled to the fruits of their judgments, and must be p'aid.—Adams v.
Haskell, 7 Cal., July T. ; 8 ib., Jan. T.

5. Copartnership property cannot be seized on an attachment against one absconding partner for a partnership debt.—Stoutenbur_qh v. Vandenburgh, 7 How. Pr., 229;
Sears v. Gearn, ib., 383.

6. When a sheriff to whom an attachment was issued neglected to levy on sufficient
property to satisfy the debt, he was held liable in an action against him for the deficiency, it appearing that the defendant in the attachment had suiiicient property to satisfy the demand,~and that the sheriff knew it at the time of the levy.—Ransom v. Halcolt, 9 How. Pr., 119.

124. The rights or shares which the defendant may have in the
stock of any corporation or company, together with the interest and
profits thereon, and all debts due «such defendant, and all other propJ

erty in this state of such defendant not exempt from execution, may

be attached, and if judgment be recovered, be sold to satisfy the judgment and execution.

125. The sheriff to whom the writ is directed and delivered shall
execute the same without delay, and if the undertaking mentioned in
section one hundred and twenty-three be not given, as follows:

1st. Real property shall be attached by leaving a copy of the writ
with the occupant thereof; or if there be no occupant, by posting a
copy in a conspicuous place thereon, and filing a copy, together with a
description of the property attached, with the recorder of the county.

2d. Personal property, capable of manual delivery, shall be attached
by taking it into custody. ,

3d. Stock or shares, or interest in stock or shares, of any corporation or company, shall be attached by leaving with the president, or
other head of the same, or the secretary, cashier or managing agent
thereof, a copy of the writ, and a notice stating the stock or interest of
the defendant is attached in pursuance of such writ.

4th. Debts and credits, and other personal property, not capable
of manual delivery, shall be attached by leaving with the person owing
such debts, or having in his possession, or under his control, such credits, or other personal property, a copy of the writ, and a notice that
the debts owing by him to the defendant, or the credits and other personal property in his possession or under his control, belonging to the
defendant, are attached in pursuance of such writ.

1. 1st. Real property may be attached without possession; personal property cannot be.—Leamed v. Vandenburgh, 7 How. Pr., 379.

2. 2d. Letters and correspondence cannot be attached.—Hergman v. Dettlebach, 11
ib., 47-.

3. 3d. See notes to Section 29, as to service.

4. Bonds made by a railroad company, and placed in the hands of their agents to
be sold, are not, either in the hands of the company or of the agents, the property of
the company, in such sense that an attachment issued against the company can be
levied upon them.—C’oddz'ngton v. Gilbert, 2 Abbott, 242.

126. Upon receiving information in writing from the plaintifff, or
his attorney, that any person has in his possession, or under his control, any credits or other personal property belonging to the defendant,
or is owing any debt to the defendant, the sheriff shall serve upon such
person a copy of the writ, and a notice that such credits, or other

property or debts, as the case may be, are attached in pursuance of
such writ. ‘

127. All persons having in their possession, or under their control,
any credits or other personal property belonging to the defendant, or
owing any debts to the defendant at the time of service upon them of
a copy of the writ and notice, as provided in the last two sections,
shall be, unless such property be delivered up or transferred, or such
debts be paid to the sheriff, liable to the plaintifff, for the amount of
such credits, property or debts, until the attachment be discharged, or

any judgment recovered by him be satisfied.

1. In proceedings against a garnishee, it is the duty of the court simply to render
judgment against the garnishee for the amount due by him to the judgment debtor. To
order the money paid over is error.—Smz'th v. Brown, 5 Cal., 118 ; Brummagim v. Boucher, 6 Cal., 16.

128. f1s55.] Any person owing debts to the defendant, or having in his possession or under his control, any credits or other personal
property belonging to the defendant, may be required to attend before
the court or judge, or a referee appointed by the court or judge, and
be examined on oath respecting the same. The defendant may also
be required to attend for the purpose of giving information respecting
his property, and may be examined on oath. The court or judge may,
after such examination, order personal property capable of manual delivery to be delivered to the sheriff on such terms as may be just, having reference to any liens thereon, or claims against the same, and a
memorandum to be given of all other personal property, containing the
amount and description thereof.

129. The sheriff shall make a. full inventory of the property attached, and return the same with the writ. To enable him to make
such return as to debts and credits attached, he shall request, at the
time of service, the party owing the debt, or having the credit, to give
him a memorandum, stating the amount and description of each; and
if such memorandum be refused, he shall return the fact of refusal
with the writ. The party refusing to give the memorandum may be
required to pay the costs of any proceedings taken for the purpose of

obtaining information respecting the amount_ and description of such
debt or credit.

130. If any of the property attached be perishable, the sherif
shall sell the same in the manner in which such property is sold on
execution. The proceeds, and other property attached by him, shall
be retained by him to answer any judgment that may be recovered in
the action, unless sooner subjected to execution upon another judgment
recovered previous to the issuing of the attachment. Debts and credits attached may be collected by him, if the same can be done without

suit. The sheriff"s receipt shall be a sufficient discharge for the
amount paid.

_ See_ Sec. 654.

1. No order of court is required to authorize this sale by the officer.—Low v. Henry,
8 Cal., April T.

131. If any personal property attached be claimed by a third person, as his property, the sheriff may summon a  of six men to try
the validity of such claim ; and such proceedings shall be had thereon,
with the like effect, as in a case of a claim after levy upon execution.

132. If judgment be recovered by the plaintiff, the sheriff shall
satisfy the same out of the property attached by him which has not
been delivered to the defendant, or a claimant as hereinbefore provided,
or subjected to execution on another judgment recovered previous to
the issuing of the attachment, if it be sufficient for that purpose:

1st. By paying to the plaintifff the proceeds of all sales of perishable
property sold by him, or [of] any debts or credits collected by him, or
so much as shall be necessary to satisfy the judgment:

2d. If any balance remain due, and an execution shall have been
issued on the judgment, he shall sell under the execution so much of
the property, real or personal, as may be necessary to satisfy the balance, if enough for that purpose remain in his hands. Notices of the
sales shall be given, and the sales conducted as in other cases of sales
on execution.

1. Where an attachment was issued by the court against property of the debtor,
and the sheriil’ had executed the same and was ordered to make the amount due the
creditor out of the goods, chattels and property of the debtor, the sheriff could not

maintain an action in his own name to recover a sum owing to the attachment debtor
by a third person, for goods sold and delivered.——Sublette v. Melhado, 1 Cal., 104.

133. If after selling all the property attached by him remainingin

his hands, and applying the proceeds, together with the proceeds of
any debts or credits collected by him deducting his fees, to the payment of the judgment, any balance shall remain due, the sheriff shall
proceed to collect such balance as upon an execution in other cases.
Whenever the judgment shall have been paid, the sheriff, upon reasonable demand, shall deliver over to the defendant the attached property

remaining in his hands, and any proceeds of the property attached unapplied on the judgment.

134. If the execution be returned unsatisfied in whole or in part,
the plaintiil‘ may prosecute any undertaking given pursuant to section
one hundred and twenty-three, or section one hundred and thirtyseven, or he may proceed as in other cases upon the return of an
execution.

1. The undertaking only operated to release the property from the custody of the

sheriff pending the suit, and not as an actual substitution of security.—Low v. Adams,
6 Cal., 277.

135. If the defendant recover judgment against the plaintifff, any

undertaking received in the action, all the proceeds of sales and money
collected by the sheriff, and all the property attached, remaining in
the sheriff"s hands, shall be delivered to the defendant or his agent;
the order of attachment shall be discharged, and the property released
therefrom.

136. [1854.] Whenever the defendant shall have appeared in

the action, he may apply, upon reasonable notice to the plaintiff, to
the court in which the action is pending, or to the judge thereof, or to
a county judge, for an order to discharge the same, upon the execution of the undertaking mentioned in the next section ; and if the
application be granted, all the proceeds of sales and monies collected
by the sheriff, and all the property attached remaining in his hands,
shall be released from the attachment, and delivered to the defendant

upon the justification of the sureties on the undertaking, if required

by the pla.inti&'.

1. In a complaint upon this bond it must be alleged that the property attached was
released upon the execution of the bond.—Palmer v. Melvin, 6 Cal., 651 ; Wzlliamson
v. Blattan, 8 Cal., April T.

137. [1854.] Upon such application the defendant shall deliver
to the court or judge, an undertaking executed by at least two sureties, residents and freeholders or householders in the county, to the
effect that the sureties Will, on demand, pay to the plaintifff the amount
of any judgment that may be recovered in favor of the plaintifff in the
action, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which shall
be sufficient to satisfy the amount claimed by the plaintifff in his complaint, and the costs. The sureties may be required to justify, on such
application before the judge or court, and the property attached shall
not be released from the attachment without their justification, if the
same be required.

138. [1858.] In all cases when property or effects shall be attached, the defendant, or any creditor of the defendant interested, may file

a plea in the nature of a plea in abatement, under oath, putting in issue the truth of the facts alleged in the ajfidavit on which the attachment

was sued out.

139. [1858.] Upon such issue the plaintiff shall be held to prove

that the facts alleged by him in said  as the grounds of the
attachment, existed at the time of the issuitnce of the writ of attachment.  A

I
.0.

140. [1858.] If the issue be found against” the plaintifff, the at
tachment shall be dismissed at the’ cost of the plaintifff,» and his sureties

shall thereafter be liable upon the bond . for all damages‘ sustained by
the defendant, in consequence of the issuing of the attachment.

An u-5 >r improperly refusing an attachment will be reversed, even.’a&er final
judgment.—Griswold v. Sharp, 2 Cal., 17. °

2. An order improperly dissolving an attachment will be reversed.—Reiss v.'BrafI_:/,
2 Cal., 132. e‘ ‘“

3. An objection can be urged on appeal against the order of the district court
ing to discharge the attachment, although final judgment was had against defendants.Taafe v. Rosenthall, 7 Cal., April T. ‘

4. An appeal will not lie from an order refusing to discharge an attachment.-—Balcer v. Rosenthal, 7 Cal., April T.

5. ‘ On motion to vacate an attachment, the plaintifff ’s aiiidavits in opposition are to
be received only for the purpose of explaining or contradicting the moving atiidavits,
and unless the attachment can be sustained on the original affidavits, it should be discharged. He should not be allowed to supply a deficiency in his first affidavits.— Wilson
v. Britton, 6 Abbott, 33. '

6. This principle fully discussed in—New York and Erie Bank v. Codd, 11 How.
Pr., 221.

141. The sheriff shall return the writ of attachment with the summons, if issued at the same time; otherwise, within twenty days after
its receipt, with a certificate of his proceedings endorsed thereon, or
attached thereto. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to
any suits already commenced, but so far as such suits may be concerned, the act entitled “An Act to regulate proceedings against
debtors by attachment,” passed April‘ 22d, 1850, shall be deemed in
full force and eifect. r

.~ ; CHAPTER V.
J DEPOSIT IN COURT.

142. When it is admitted, by the pleading or examination of a
party, th,at,he. has in his possession, or under his control, any money
or other-thjhg capable of delivery, which, being the subject of litigation, is -._l1e°ld by him as trustee for another party, or which belongs, or
is, d3,1e,~ to another party, the court may order the same, upon motion,

 deposited in court, or delivered to such party, upon such condi.tions as may be just, subject to the further direction of the court.

1. An order directing the defendant to pay the amount admitted due by the answer
is an appealable order.——lllerrz'tt v. Thompson, 1 Abbott, 223.

143. [1854.] A receiver may be appointed by the court in which
the action is pending, or by a judge thereof:

1st. Before judgment, provisionally, on the application of either
party, when he establishes a prima facie right to the property, or to
an interest in the property which is the subject of the action, and
which is in possession of an adverse party, and the property or its
rents and profits are in danger of being lost or materially injured or
impaired;

2d. After judgment, to dispose of the property according to the
judgment, or to preserve it during the pending of an appeal; and

3d. In such other cases as are in accordance with the practice of
courts of equity jurisdiction.

6. Knowingly taking a judgment for more than was due at the 'entry thereof, is in
itself conclusive evidence, in contemplation of law, of fraud.—Ib. ’

7. If a judgment is pronounced by a court having jurisdiction, no matter how irregular it may be, it must stand until set aside or reversed on appeal. But when entered
by a mere ministerial oilicer, without authority of law, it is wholly void.-—Stearns v.

Aguirre, 7 Cal., April T.
8. A motion in arrest of judgment may be made under the code.—No.z-on v. Bentley,
7 How. Pr., 316.

145. Judgment may be given for or against one or more of several plaiutitfs, and for or against one or more of several defendants;
and it may, when the justice of the case requires it, determine the
ultimate rights of the parties on each side, as between themselves.

1. Judgment rendered in favor of plaintifff against one defendant, and in favor of the
other defendant against plaintiiT'.—Rowe v. Chandler, 1 Cal., 167 ; Adams v. Gorham, 6

Cal., 68 ; Claflin v. Butterfly, 2 Abbott, 446 ; 5 Duer, 327.

2. A general judgment against all defendants, where only one was served with process, is error.—Estell v. Chenerg/, 3 Cal., 467.

3. A judgment which is right will not be reversed because it is rendered upon a
wrong reason.—Helm v. Dumars, 3 Cal., 454.

4. It appearing upon the trial of an action brought against seven defendants, that
five of them only were liable, the plaintifff moved to strike out the names of the other
two. Motion granted, with the condition that he pay their costs: and judgment rendered in favor of the two for their costs, and against the five for the debt and costs.
The allowance of costs to the two defendants severed, sustained on appeal. The
proper form of judgment in such a case.—Ma2'ks v. Bard, 1 Abbott, 63.

146., In an action against several defendants, the court may, in
its discretion, render judgment against one or more of them, leaving
the action to proceed against the others, whenever a several judgment
is proper.

1. It must appear to the court that a several judgment would be proper.—Stearns

v. Aguirre, 6 Cal., 176.

2. In an action against defendants jointly indebted, where one only is served, a several judgment may be entered against him.—Hirschfield v. Franklin, 6 Cal., 607.

147. The relief granted to the plaintifff, if there be no answer,
shall not exceed that which he shall have demanded in his complaint;
but in any other case the court may grant him any relief consistent
with the case made by the complaint, and embraced within the issue.

148. An action may be dismissed, or a judgment of non-suit entered in the following cases:

CHAPTER II.

JUDGMENT UPON FAILURE TO ANSWER.

150. Judgment may be had, if the defendant fail to answer the
complaint, as follows:

1st. In an action arising upon contract for the recovery of money or
damages only, if no answer has been filed with the clerk of the court
within the time specified in the summons, or such further time as may
have been granted, the clerk, upon the application of the plaintifff, shall
enter theidefault of the defendant, and immediately thereafter enter

, judgment for the amount specified in the summons, including the costs,

against the defendant, or against one or more of several defendants in
the cases provided for in section thirty-two.

2d. In other actions, if no answer has been filed with the clerk of the
court Within the time specified in the summons, or such further time
as may have been granted, the clerk shall enter the default of the defendant; and thereafter the plaintifff Ia2Z«ElBBlZ at the i_i_r§_t_or any
semient termgof the court for the relief demanded in the complaint.
If the taking of any account, or the ’proof of any fact, be necessary to
enable the court to give judgment, or to carry the judgment into eifect,
the court may take the account or hear the proof ; or may, in its discretion, order a reference for that purpose. And where the action is
for the recovery of damages, in whole or in part, the court may order

CHAPTER 111.5

OF ISSUES, AND THl']}MANNER OF THEIR DISPOSITION.

'1}..- ‘.f-~2<= :71 3»151. An issue arises when a fact or conclusion of law is maintained
by the one party, and is controverted by the other. Issues are of two
kinds :

1st. Of law; and,

2d. Of fact.

152. [1854.] An issue of law arises upon a demurrer tothe complaint, or answer to some part thereof.

153. [1854.] An issue of fact arises:
1st. Upon a material allegation in the complaint, controverted by

the answer; and,
2d. Upon new matter in the answer, except an issue of law is joined

therein.

154. An issue of law shall be tried by the court, unless it be referred, upon consent, as provided in chapter six of this title.

155. An issue of fact shall be tried by a jury, unless a jury trial
is waived, or a reference be ordered, as provided in this act. Where
there are issues both of law and fact to the same complaint, the issues
of law shall be first disposed of.

156. The clerk shall enter causes upon the calendar of the court,
according to the date of the issue. Causes once placed on the calendar for a general or special term, if not tried or heard at such term,
shall remain upon the calendar from court to court, until finally disposed of.

157. Either party may bring the issue to trial, or to a hearing, and
in the absence of the adverse party, unless the court for good cause
otherwise direct, may proceed with his case, and take a dismissal of
the action, or a verdict or judgment, as the case may require.

158. A motion to postpone a trial on the ground of the absence of

evidence, shall only be made upon allidavit, showing the materiality of
the evidence expected to be obtained, and that due diligence has been
used to procure it. The court ‘may also require the moving party to
state, upon affidavit, the evidence which he expects to obtain, and if
the adverse party thereupon admit that such evidence would be given,
and that it be considered as actually given on the trial, or offered and
overruled as improper, the trial shall not be postponed.

See Sec. 664.

1. The moving party must show by affidavit sudicient diligence on his part, and that
he did all in his power.—Frank v. Brady, 7 Cal., July T.

CHAPTER TV.

TRIAL BY JURY.

ARTICLE I.

FORMATION OF THE JURY.

159. When the action is called for trial by jury, the clerk shall prepare separate ballots containing the names of the jurors summoned, who
have appeared and not been excused, and deposit them in a box. He shall
then draw from the box twelve names, and the persons whose names
are drawn shall constitute the  If the ballots become exhausted
before the  is complete, or if from any cause a juror or jurors be
excused or discharged, the sheriff shall summons, under the direction
of the court, from the citizens of the county and not from bystanders,
so many qualified persons as may be necessary to complete the jury.
The jury shall consist of twelve persons, unless the parties consent to
a less number. The parties may consent to any number not less than
three. Such consent shall be entered by the clerk in the minutes of

the trial.

160. [As soon as the jury is completed, an oath or adirmation shall
be administered to the jurors, in substance, that they each of them will
well and truly try the matter at issue between —— the plaintifff,
and — the defendant, and a true verdict render according’ to the
evidence.

161. Either party may challenge the jurors, but when there are
several parties on either side they shall join in a challenge before it
can be made. The challenges shall be to individual jurors, and shall
either be peremptory or for cause. Each party shall be entitled to
four peremptory challenges.

162. Challenges for cause may be taken on one or more of the following grounds :
1st. A want of any of the qualifications prescribed by statute to

render a person competent as a juror;

2d. Consanguinity or aflinity within the third degree to either party;

3d. Standing in the relation of guardian and ward, master and servant, employer and clerk, or principal and agent to either party; or
being a member of the family of either party; ora partner in business
with either party; or being security on any bond or obligation for
either party ;

_4th. Having served as a juror or been a witness on a previous trial
between the same parties for the same cause of action;

5th. Interest on the part of the juror in the event of the action, or
in“ the main question involved in the action;

6th. Having formed or expressed an unqualified opinion, or belief
as to the merits of the action ;

7th. The existence of a state of mind in the juror evincing enmity
against, or bias to, either party.

163. Challenges for cause shall be tried by the court. The juror

challenged, and any other person, may be examined as a witness on the
trial of the challenge.

ARTICLE II.

CONDUCT OF THE TRIAL.

164. If, after the impanneling of the jury, and before verdict, a
juror become sick, so as to be unable to perform his duty, the court
may order him to be discharged. In that case the trial may proceed
with the other jurors, or a new jury may be sworn, and the trial begin

anew; or the jury may be discharged, and a new jury then or afterterwards impanneled.

See Sec. 663.

1. The withdrawal of a juror and continuance of a case thereby, is no ground for
reversing a judgment subsequently obtained.—Benedz'ct v. Cozzens, 4 Cal., 381.

165. In charging the jury, the court shall state to them all matters
of law which it thinks necessary for their information in giving their
verdict; and if it state the testimony of the case it shall also inform
the jury that they are the exclusive judges of all questions of fact.
The court shall furnish to either party at the time, upon request, a
statement in writing of the points of law contained in the charge; or

shall sign at the time, a statement of such points prepared and submitted by the counsel of either party.

all papers (except depositions,) which have been received as evidence
in the cause ; or copies of such papers as ought not, in the opinion of
the court, to be taken from the person having them in possession; and
they may also take with them notes of the testimony, or other proceedings on the trial, taken by themselves, or any of them; but none
taken by any other person.

168. After the jury have retired for deliberation, if there be a disagreement between them as to any part of the testimony, or if they desire
to be informed of any point of law arising in the cause, they may require the oliicer to conduct them into court. Upon their being brought
into court, the information required shall be given in the presence of,
or after notice to, the parties or counsel.

1. It was error after the jury had retired, to allow them to come into court and instruct them in the absence of the parties or their connsel.—Redman v. Gulnaclc, 5 Cal.,
148.

169. In all cases where a jury are discharged, or prevented from
giving a verdict, by reason of ' accident or other cause, during the

progress of the trial, or after the cause is submitted to them, the .

action may be again tried immediately, or at a future time, as the court
shall direct.

170. While the  are absent the court may adjourn, from time
to time, in respect to other business; but it shall nevertheless be
deemed open for every purpose connected with the cause submitted to
the jury, until a verdict is rendered, or the  discharged. The
court may direct the jury to bring in a sealed verdict, at the opening
of the court, in case of an agreement during a recess, or adjournment
for the day. A final adjournment of the court for the term shall discharge the jury.

171. When the jury have agreed upon the verdict, they shall be

' conducted into court by the officer having them in charge. Their
names shall then be called, and they shall be asked by the court, or '

the clerk, whether they have agreed upon their verdict; and if the
foreman answer in the affirmative, they shall, on being required, declare the same.

172. If the verdict be informal or insuilicient, in not covering the

whole issue or issues submitted, the verdict may be corrected by the
jury under the advice of the court, or the jury may be again sent out.
1. The verdict of a jury may be amended or corrected so as to conform to the facts

where there is no doubt as to such facts and of the real intentions of the jury.—True—

body v. Jacobson, 2 Cal., 263; Perkins v. Wilson, 3 Cal.,137; Little v. Larrabee,2
Greenl., 37 ; Burhans v. Tibbits, 7 How. Pr., 21.

173. When the verdict is given, and is not informal or insufiicient,
the clerk shall immediately record it, in full, in the minutes, and shall
read it to the jury, and inquire of them whether it be their verdict. If
any juror disagree, the jury shall be again sent out; but if no disagreement be expressed the verdict shall be complete, and the jury shall be
discharged from the case.

1. If the record shows what the verdict is, the atiidavit of jurors will not be taken to

contradict it.——Amsby v. Dickhouse, 4 Cal., 102 ; Wilson v. Berry/man, 5 Cal., 44 ; Castro v. Gill, ib., 40. 2. The court shall direct the verdict of a jury to be recorded as rendered by it. That

should be treated as the verdict which the jury actually brings in.—Moody v. McDonald,
4 Cal., 297.

3. The verdict as recorded need not be put in a statement on appeal.—Re_z/nolds v.
Harris, 7 Cal., Oct. T.

I

ARTICLE III.
THE VERDICT.

174. The verdict of a jury is either general or special. A general
verdict is that by which they pronounce generally upon all or any of
the issues, either in favor of the plaintifff or defendant; a special verdict is that by which the jury find the facts only, leaving the judgment
to the court. The special verdict shall present the conclusions of fact
as established by the evidence, and not the evidence to prove them ;

and those conclusions of fact shall be so presented as that nothing shall _
_ remain to the court but to draw from them conclusions of law.

2. A general verdict will conclude all parties who do not answer separately, or demand separate verdicts.— Winans v. Clzristy, 4 Cal., 70.

176. When a verdict is found for the plaintifff, in an action for the
recovery of money, or for the defendant, when a counterclaim for the

recovery of money is established, exceeding the amount of the plaintill‘ ’s claim as established, the jury shall also find the amount of the

recovery.

177. In an action for the recovery of specific personal property,
if the property has not been delivered to the plaintifff, or the defendant,
by his answer, claim a return thereof, the jury, if their verdict be in
favor of the plaintiii‘, or if, being in favor of the defendant, they also
fmd that he is entitled to a return thereof, shall find the value
of the property, and may at the same time, assess the damages, if any
are claimed in the complaint or answer, which the prevailing party
has sustained by reason of the taking or detention of such property.

.4, Ste 5-. 5. O ,
1. This verdict must be in the alternative for a. return of the property, or for the
value thereof, as assessed in case a return cannot be had.—Dwz'ght v. Enos, 5 Seld., 470.

2. Where there is no verdict by a jury as in acase of non-suit or discontinuance, the
value of the property need not be found. The value may be found by a jury called in
an action on the undertaking.—Ginaca v. Atwood, 7 Cal., Oct. T. '

178. Upon receiving a verdict an entry shall be made by_the clerk
in the minutes of the court, specifying the time of trial, the names of
the jurors and witnesses, and the verdict; and where a special verdict
isfound, either the judgment rendered thereon, or if the case be reserved for argument or further consideration, the order thus reserving it.

CHAPTER V. '

TRIAL BY THE COURT.

179. Trial by jury may be waived by the several parties to an
issue of fact, in actions arising on contract ; and with the assent of the
court in other actions, in the manner following:

1st. By failing to appear at the trial. ~ _

2d. By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with the

clerk.

3d. By oral consent in open court, entered in the minutes. The

court maylprescribe by rule what shall be deemed a Waiver in other
cases.

1. The mere act of filing an answer does not operate as an appearance at the trial
so as to prevent the waiver of a jury trial.—Zane v. Crow, 4 Cal., 112.

2. “The court may prescribe by rule,” held unconstitutional.—Exline v. Smith, 5
Cal., 112.

180. Upon the trial of an issue of fact by the court, its decision
shall be glen in writing, and filed with the clerk, Within ten days after
the trial took place. In giving the‘ decision, the facts found and the

conclusions of law, shall be separately stated. Judgment upon the
decision shall be entered accordingly.

 

1. The ten days are only directory.—Vermule v. S7zaw, 4 Cal., 214; Burger v. Baker,
4 Abbott, 11.

2. When the cause is tried by a judge without a jury, the record must disclose the
finding by him of the facts and a statement of his conclusions of law upon the case
without which there is no basis to support a judgment.—Hoagland v. Clary, 2 Cal.,

474; Russel v. Armador, 2 Cal., 305; Brown v. Brown, 3 Cal., 111 ; Estell v. Chenery,
ib., 467.

3. This does not apply in chancery cases.— Walker v. Sedgwick, 5 Cal., 192.

4. A verdict, “ That the facts stated in the plaintifff ’s complaint are true, and the
facts stated in the defendant's answer are not true,” held good. The finding may refer

to the pleadings if sufficiently distinct to make it intelligible.—McEwen v. Johnson, 7
Cal., Jan. T.

5. This decision in writing should embrace a distinct deterrnination of the material
issues raised by the pleadings. A mere direction to enter a certain judgment is not a
compliance with the section.—Burger v. Baker, 4 Abbott, ll .

181. On a judgment upon an issue of law, if the taking of an account be necessary to enable the court to complete the judgment, 3.
reference may be ordered.

a

CHAPTER VI.
or REFERENCES, AND TRIAL BY REFEREES.

' 182. A reference may be ordered upon the agreement of the parties, filed with the clerk, or entered in the minutes : .

1st. To try any or all of the issues in an action or proceeding,
whether of fact or of law, and to report a judgment thereon.

2d. To ascertain a fact necessary to enable the court to proceed
and determine the case.

1. A reference cannot be made without consent of the adverse party.—Seaman v. Mariani, 1 Cal., 336; Smith v. Pollock, 2 Cal., 92; Benham v. Rowe, ib., 261.

2. Our statute concerning referees is in aid of common law remedy by arbitration,
and does not alter its principles.—Tyson v. Wells, 2 Cal., 122.

3. Hearsay and irrelevant testimony should be excluded by referees.—De la Riva v.
Berreyesa, 2 Cal., 195.

4. Referees should exclude items barred by statute of limitation, if objected to.--ib.

5. VVhcn an entry upon the minutes recites that “ the parties came by thcir attorneys, uml dcfendzmt by his attorney moved the court that the cause he referred ;” held
that such reference was made on the appellant's mu.iou, and in one of the modes pointed
out by law, “ by oral consent in open court, entered on the minutes.”——Bates v. Visher,

2 Cal., 355.
6. The above held not to apply to equity cases.—Smz'th v. Rowe, 4 Cal., 6.

7. A referee appointed merely to take an account between two parties, differs materially from a referee appointed in the stead of the court, to try and determine a cause,
and an order setting aside his report is merely interlocutory and not the subject of appeal.—JoImston v. Doplcins, 6 Cal., 83.

8. Where a referee admits the testimony of a witness against the objection of the
defendant, such testimony cannot, after the case has been submitted, be thrown out without first giving to the adverse party the opportunity of otherwise supplying the excluded
testimony.—Monson v. Cooke, 5 Cal., 436.
9. Referees have no power to allow parties to alter pleadings.—z'b. ; Bonesteel v.

L3/nde, 8 How. Pr., 226, 352.
10. Although parties may agree to a suitable person for a referee, the court mustbe

satisfied that the selection is a proper one.—Lz'tch_/ield v. Burwell, 5 How. Pr., 341.

11. An order to refer a cause brought to recover upon an account, is not an appealable order.—Ubsdell v. Root, 3 Abbott, 142. '

12. When a party proceeds to try a cause under an order of reference, he thereby
waives any right to appeal from that order.—Ib.

183. When the parties do not consent, the court may, upon the
application of either, or of its own motion, direct a reference in the

following cases :
1st. When the trial of an issue of fact requires the examination of

a. long account on either side ; in which case the referees may be directed to hear and decide the whole issue, or report upon any specific

question of fact involved therein ;
2d. When the taking of an account is necessary for the information

of the court before judgment, or for carrying a judgment or order intc
edect ;

3d. When a question of fact, other than upon the pleadings, arises
upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of the action; or,
4th. When it is necessary for the information of the court in a special proceeding.
1. Action for balance of account, defense, payment by a promissory note, replication, that plaintifff was induced to receive the note by means of fraudulent representations ; held, that the case was not referable under the statute, without the written
consent of both parties.—Seaman v. Mariani, 1 Cal., 336.

2. The court may order a reference to ascertain damages by an injunction issued
without a cause.—Russell v. Elliott, 2 Cal., 245.

3. Damages for unlawful detainer is not subject to reference, unless by consent.Geeselca v. Brannan, 2 Cal., 517.

4. A reference, in which there is no order of court, or agreement, filed or entered
on the minutes, withdraws the cause from the jurisdiction of the court, and no judgment

can be entered upon the report without consent.—Heslep v. City of San Francisco, 4
Cal., 1.

5. An order of reference is not a final order of judgment to be appealed from .—Harris v. Clark, 4 How. Pr., 78.

184. A reference may be ordered to any person or persons, not
exceeding three, agreed upon by the parties. If the parties do not
agree, the court or judge shall appoint one or more referees, not exceeding three, who reside in the county in which the action or proceeding is triable, and against whom there is no legal objection.

See Sec. 529.

1. The referees need not be sworn.—-Sloan v. Smith, 3 Cal., 406.

2. A referee has no power to strike out a complaint, nor to punish for contempt.Bonesteel v. Lynde, 8 How. Pr., 226, 352.

185. Either party may object to the appointment of any person as
referee, on one or more of the following grounds:

1st. A want of any of the qualifications prescribed by statute to render a person competent as a juror.

2d. Consanguinity or afiinity within the third degree, to either party.

3d. Standing in the relation of guardian and ward, master and servant, employer and clerk, or principal and agent, to either party; or
being a member of the family of either party; or_a partner in business
with either party; or being security on any bond or obligation for
either party.

4th. Having served as a juror, or been a witness on any trial beween the same parties for the same cause of action.

5th. Interest on the part of such person in the event of the action,
or in the main question involved in the action.

6th. Having formed or expressed an unqualified opinion or belief as
to the merits of the action.

7th. The existence of a state of mind in such person evincing enmity
against, or bias to, either party.  

186. The objections taken to the appointment of any person as referee, shall be heard and disposed of by the court. Affidavits may be
read, and any person examined°as a witness as to such objections.

187. The referees shall make their report within ten days after the
testimony before them is closed. Their report upon the whole issue
shall stand as the decision of the court, and upon filing the report with
the clerk of the court, judgment may be entered thereon, in the same
manner as if the action had been tried by the court. The decision of
the referees may be excepted to, and reviewed in like manner as if

‘made by the court. When the reference is to report the facts, the

report shall have the effect of a special verdict.

CHAPTER VII.
GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO TRIALS.

ARTICLE I.

EXCEPTIONS.

188. An exception is an objection taken at the trial to a decision
upon a matter of law, Whether such trial be by jury, court, or referees,
and whether the decision be made during the formation of a jury, or
in the admission of evidence, or in the charge to a jury, or at any other
time from the calling of the action for trial, to the rendering of the
verdict or decision. But no exception shall be regarded on a motion

for a new trial, or on an appeal, unless the exception be material, and
affect the substantial rights of the parties.

I. Where the court below tries the cause without a jdry, the proper mode of reserving questions of law, is to ask the court to decide them, and note the refusal in a
bill of exceptions.—Griswold v. Sharpe, 2 Cal., 17.

2. An objection that the case made by the evidence varies from that stated in the
complaint, cannot prevail on a review unless it was made at the tria1.—Bames v. Perine,2 Kem., 18.

3. In chancery cases the jury trial is but advisory, and improper testimony and erroneous instructions work no injury, if justice has been rendered by the court.—Stz’ll v.
Saunders, 7 Cal., Oct. T.

189. The point of the exception shall be particularly stated, and
may be delivered in writing to the judge ; or, if the party require it,
shall be written down by the clerk. When delivered in writing, or
written down by the clerk, it shall be made conformable to the truth,
or be at the time corrected, until it is so made conformable. ‘When

not delivered in writing, or written down as above, it may be entered
in the judge’s minutes, and afterwards settled in a statement of the
case, as provided in this act.

1. A mere transcript of the evidence taken down by the clerk is no part of the record, unless made so by bill of exceptions.— lVz'lson v. Zlliddleton, 2 Cal., 54.

2. Where, under the 271st [663] section of the act to regulate proceedings in civil
cases, the evidence is taken down by the clerk in the court below, on motion of a party,
a transcript of it certified by him, is a substitute for a hill of exceptions, or statement of
facts, in the absence of such bill or statement. Decisions contravening the plain letter
of the statute are not binding as authority.—Ingral2am v. Gildermester, 2 Cal., 161.

3. Documents and affidavits, to be reviewed by the appellate court, must be embodied in the bill of exceptions or record .— Gates v. Buclcingham, 4 Cal., 286 ; Moore V. Semple, 8 Cal., April '1‘. ; Ritter v. lllason, ib.

4. Objections to the introduction of evidence must be taken on the trial below.Covillaud v. Tanner, 7 Cal., Jan. T.

5. The objections to the form of a deed must be made on the trial at nisi prius.—
Posten v. Rassette, 5 Cal., 468 ; Letter v. Mclntg-re, 7 Cal., April T.

6. Exceptions which appear as settled in the case, will, on appeal, be assumed to
have been duly taken.—Hunt v. Bloomer, 3 Kern, 342.

190. No particular form of exceptionpshall be required. The objection shall be stated, with so much of the evidence or other matter,
as is necessary to explain it, but no more ; and the whole as briefly as
possible.

1. Where an exception is taken to the decision of a court refusing a non-suit, it devolves on the plaintifff, on the settlement of the bill, to see that all the evidence material
for him in sustaining the decisions complained of, is inserted in the bill of exceptions.Ringgold v. Haven, 1 Cal., 108.

191. When a caiise has been tried by the court, or by referees,
and the decision orreport is not made immediately after the closing of
the testimony, the decision or report shall be deemed excepted to, on
a motion for a new trial, or on appeal, without any special notice that
an exception is taken thereto.

ARTICLE II.
NEW TRIALS.

192. A new trial is a re-examination of an issue of fact in the same
court, after a trial and decision by a jury, court, or referees.

1. A new trial should not be granted where it is apparent the verdict of the jury

193. The former verdict or other decision may be vacated, and a
new trial granted, on the application of the party aggrieved, for any of
the following causes materially affecting the substantial rights of such
party :

1st. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury, or adverse

party, or any order of the court, or abuse of discretion by which either
party was prevented from having a fair trial.

2d. Misconduct of the jury.

3d. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not have
guarded against.

4th. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party making the
application, which he could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced at the trial.

5th. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under the
influence of passion or prejudice. '

6th. Insuiliciepcy of the evidence to justify the verdict, or other decision, or that it is against law. ‘

7th. Error in law, occurring at the trial, and excepted to by the
party making the application.

194. When the application is made for a cause mentioned in the
first, second, third, and fourth subdivisions of the last section, it shall
be made upon affidavit; for any other cause it shall be made upon a
statement prepared as provided in the next section.

195. The party intending to move for a new trial shall give notice
of the same within two days after the trial, and shall, within five days
after such notice, prepare and file with the clerk the affidavit required
by the last section, or a statement of the grounds upon which he intends to rely. If no affidavit or statement he filed within five days
after the notice, the right to move for a new trial shall be deemed
waived. The statement shall contain so much of the evidence, or _1_'eference thereto, as may be necessary to explain the grounds taken, and
no more. Such statement, when containing any portion of the evidence
of the case, and not agreed to by the adverse party, shall be settled by
the judge upon notice. On the argument reference may also be made
to the pleadings, depositions, and documentary evidence on file, and to

the minutes of the court. If the application be made upon affidavits
filed, the adverse party may use counter affidavits on the hearing.
Any counter affidavits shall be filed with the clerk one day, at least,
previous to the hearing. '

1. A motion fora new trial must be noticed within statute time.—Ellz'ott v. Osborne,

1 Cal., 396 ; Dennison v. Smith, ib., 437 ; Caney v. Silverthorn, 8 Cal., Jan. '1‘.

2. If no statement he filed the order will be set aside.-—Leech v. Allen, 2 Cal., 95 ;
Hill v. White, 2 Cal., 306.

3. The statement must be agreed to or signed by the judge.—Lz'nn v. Twist, 3 Cal.,
89; Harley v. Young, 4 Cal., 284 ; Survey v. Wells, 5 Cal., 124.

4. A motion for a new trial stays the operation of the judgment until it can be heard

and determined, and is not a&'ected by the adjournment of the court.—Lurvey v. Wells,
4 Cal., 106.

5. The court may impose terms in granting. or refusing a new trial.—Benedict v.
Cozzens, 4 Cal., 381; Battelle v. Connor, 6 Cal., 140.

6. The court may extend the time for filing the statement.— Wood v. Fobes, 5
Cal., 62.

7. An irregularity in the notice is waived by the act of filing a counter statement.Williams v. Gregory, 8 Cal., Jan. T.

196. The application for a new trial shall be made at the earliest
period practicable after iiling the affidavit or statement.

See Sec. 25., p. 15.
1. Baldwin v. Kramer, 2 Cal., 582.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE MANNER OF GIVING AND ENTERING JUDGMENT.

197. When _trial by jury has been had, judgment shall be entered
by the clerk, in conformity to the verdict, Within twenty-four hours
after the rendition of the verdict, unless the court order the pase to be
reserved for argument, or further _consideration, or grant a stay of
proceedings.

1. The district court may at any time thereafter grant relief against a judgment unjustly or improperly obtained.—Bz'dleman v. Kewen, 2 Cal., 248; People v. Lafarge, 3
Cal., 130.

2. A court may at any time render or amend a judgment nunc pro tunc where the

record discloses that it is incorrectly given as the judgment of the court.—Morrison v.
Dapman, 3 Cal., 255.

3. But if there is record evidence to show that the judgment was different from the
one entered, the latter must stand until reversed.—1b.

4. No court will be permitted, after the lapse of a term, to open a judgment upon
motion to render a new judgment.—Ib. Sec Sec. 144.

198. [1854.] When the case is reserved for argument, or further
consideration, as mentioned in the last section, it may be brought by
either party before the court for argument. ‘

199. If a counterclaim, established at the trial, exceed the plaintiii"s demand, so established, judgment for the defendant shall be given
for the excess; or if it appear that the defendant is entitled to any
other affirmative relief, judgment shall be given accordingly.

200. In an action to recover the possession of personal property,
judgment for the plaintifff may be for the possession, or the value thereof,
in case a delivery cannot be had, and damages for the detention. If
the property have been delivered to the plaintifff, and the defendant
claim a return thereof, judgment for the defendant may be for a return of the property, or the value thereof in case a return cannot be

had, and damages for taking and Withholding the same. ,3 L‘, ’£;L': ma

v~v
l
g‘/

1. The damages in this case when the property has been delivered, is the legal interest on the value thereof during the detention.—N£clcerson v. Chatterton, 7 Cal., April
T. ; Douglass v. Kraft, 8 Cal. April T.

2. This judgment must be in the alternative or the bond is not liable.—Nz'cIcerson v.
Chatterton, 7 Cal., April T.; Chambers v. Waters, ib.

201. The clerk shall keep among the records of the court, a book
for the entry of judgments, to be called the udgment Book,” in
which each judgment shall be entered, and shall specify clearly the
relief granted, or other determination of the action.

202. If a party die after a verdict or decisipn upon any issue of
fact, and,b_efore judgment, the court may nevertheless render judgment thereon. Such judgment shall not be alien on the real property
of ‘the deceased party, but shall be payable in the course of _adminis;
tration on his estate. ‘ _:’  if

-5. .

203. Immediately after entering the judgment, the clerk shall
attach together and ’dle the following papers, which shall constitute
the judgment roll :

1st. In case the complaint be not answered by any defendant, the

summons, with the affidavit or proof of service, and the complaint,
with a memorandum endorsed on the complaint, that the default of the
defendant in not answering was entered, and a copy of the judgment.
2d. In all other cases, the summons, pleadings, and a copy of the
judgment, and any orders relating to a change of the parties.

1. The rnode of entering the judgment and- making up and filing the judgment roll,
are not to be considered imperative, but merely directory.—Stz'mson v. Huggins, 9 How.
Pr., 86.

2. It should be made to appear that the judgment has been rendered by a court
which has jurisdiction of the proceedings, and when issues have been joined, that those
issues have been tried in some manner prescribed by law so as to authorize the judgment.

Thomas v. Tanner, 14 ib., 426.

204. Immediately after filing a judgment roll, the clerk shall make
the proper entries of the judgment, under appropriate heads, in the
docket kept by him; and from the time the judgment is docketed, it

shall become a lien upon all the real property of the judgment debtor, ,

not exempt from execution, in the county, owned by him at the time,
or which he may afterwards acquire, until the said lien expires. The
lien shall continue for twp years, unless the judgment be previously
satisfied.

1. The liens of judgment creditors, if the land he sold on a prior judgment, are
transferred to the surplus, which must be applied to them, in their order of priority.Averill v. Louc/cs, 6 Barb., 470.

2. The lien shall continue from the entry of the judgment for two years, and if an appeal be taken, the two years will gun anew from the date of filing the remittitur.—Dewey

v. Latson, 6 Cal., 130.

3. The lien of a judgment is a question of time, depending on the day and hour when
the judgment was docketed.—Blj/denburgh v. Northrop, 13 How. Pr., 289.

205. The docket mentioned in the last section, is a book which
the clerk shall keep in his oilice, with each page divided into eight
columns, and headed as follows: judgment debtors ; judgment creditors; judgment; time of entry; where entered in judgment book ; appeals, when taken ; judgment of appellate court ; satisfaction of judgment, when entered. If judgment be for the recovery of money or
damages, the amount shall be stated in the docket under the head of
judgment; if the judgment be for any other relief, a memorandum of
the general character of the relief granted shall be stated. The names
of the defendants shall be entered in the docket in alphabetical order.

206. The docket kept by the clerk shall be open at all times
during odice hours, for the inspection of the public, without charge;
and it shall be the duty of the clerk to arrange the several dockets
kept by him, in such a manner as to facilitate their inspection.

207. A transcript of the original docket certified by the clerk, may
be filed with the recorder of any other county, and from the time of
the filing, the judgment shall become a lien upon all the real property
of the judgment debtor not exempt from execution in such county,
owned by him at the time, or which he may afterwards acquire, until
the said lien expires. The lien shall continue for two years, unless
the judgment be previously satisfied.

See sec. 237.

1. To make the lien elfectual the execution must not only be issued, but the _s__ale
must take place within the two years.——Little v. Harvey, 9 Wend., 157 ; Graj‘ v. Kz’p,1
Edw. Ch. 11., 619.

208. Satisfaction of a judgment may be entered in the clerk’s
docket upon an execution returned satisfied, or upon an acknowledgment of satisfaction filed with the clerk, made in the Inanner_ of an
acknowledgment of a conveyance of real property, by the judgment
creditor, or within one year after the judgment, by the attorney, unless
a revocation of his authority be previously nled. Whenever a judgment shall be satisfied in fact, otherwise than upon an execution, it
shall be the duty of the party, or attorney, to give such acknowledgment, and upon motion the court may compel it, or may order the
entry of satisfaction to be made without it.

TITLE VII.

OF THE EXECUTION OF THE JUDGMENT IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

CHAPTER I.

THE EXECUTION.

209. The party in whose favor judgment is given, may, at any
time within five years after the entry thereof,.issue a writ of execution
for its enforcement, as prescribed in this chapter.

See Sec. 214.

210. The writ of execution shall be issued in the name of the
people, sealed with the seal of the court, and subscribed by the clerk,
and shall be directed to the sheriff, and shall intelligibly refer to the
judgment, stating the court, the county, where the judgment roll is
filed, the names of the parties, the judgment, and if it be for money,
the amount thereof, and the amount actually due thereon, and shall
require the sheriff substantially as follows:

1st. If it be against the property of the judgment debtor, it shall
require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment, with interest, out of the

personal property of such debtor, and if suilicient personal property
cannot be found, then out of his real property; or if the judgment be
a lien upon real property, then out of the real property belonging
to him on the day when the judgment was docketed, or if the execution be issued to a county -other than the one in which the judgment was recovered, on the day when the transcript of the docket was
filed in the office of the recorder of such county, stating such day, or
at any time thereafter.

2d. If it be against real or personal property, in the hands of the
personal representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants of real
property, or trustees, it shall require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment, with interest, out of such property.

3d. If it be against the person of the judgment debtor, it shall require the sheriff to arrest such debtor, and commit him to the jail of

the county until he pay the judgment, with interest, or be discharged
according to law.

4th. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or personal
property, it shall require the sheriff to deliver the possession of the
same, particularly describing it, to the party entitled thereto, and may
at the same time require the sheriff to satisfy any costs, damages,
rents, or profits, recovered by the same judgment, out of the personal
property of the party against whom it was rendered, and the value of
the property for which the judgment was recovered, to be specified
therein, if a delivery thereof cannot be had; and if sufficient personal
property cannot be found, then out of real property, as provided in
the first subdivision of this section. 5 -c.. 5 c. 2. e 1 .

1. The sheriff is not required absolutely to levy first on personal property ; this provision is merely directory ; so where the land of a defendant was mortgaged and sold under
an execution, and the mortgagee failed to redeem within statute time. though the judgment debtor had ample personal property to satisfy the judgment, yet the sale will not be
set aside as void, nor will the mortgagee be allowed to redeem.—Smz'th v. Randall, 6
Cal., 47.

2. Things in action are such property as may be levied upon on execution.—Adams
v. Haclcett, 7 Cal., January T.; Johnson v. Reynolds, ib.

3. A levy under an execution on property sufficient to satisfy the same, is a satisfaction of the judgment.—People v. Chislzolm, 7 Cal., July T.

4. The property in replevin is required to be particularly described in the execution.
The sheriff is commanded to deliver the particular property; there is no reservation
in favor of innocent purchasers.—Hunt v. Robinson, 7 Cal., Oct. T.

5. A sheriff cannot levy upon money in his own hands belonging to the judgment
debtor, when he has received the money on an execution in favor of this debtor.—C'lymer v. lVillis, 3 Cal., 363; Turner v. Fendall, 1 Cranch, 117 ; Muscott v. VVoolworth, 14
How. Pr., 477. I

211. When a writ of execution is issued on a judgment recovered
against two or more persons, in an action upon a joint contract, in
which action all the defendants were not served with summons, or did
not appear, it shall direct the sheriff to satisfy the judgment out of the
joint property of all the defendants and the individual property
only of the defendants who were served, or who appeared inthe action. In other respects, the Writ shall contain the directions specified in the first subdivision of the last section. 5:... Sm. 3?. - 3 :97 ’

212. The execution may be made returnable at any time, not less
than ten, nor more than sixty days after its receipt by the sheriff, to
the clerk with whom the judgment roll is filed.

C

_l. Executions need not, to be valid, state the time or place of their return.—Falce v.
Edgerton, 5 Duer, 681.

213. Where a judgment requires the payment of money, or the
delivery of real or personal property, the same shall be enforced in
those respects, by execution. Where it requires the performance of
any other act, a. certified copy of the judgment may be served upon
the party against Whom it is given, or upon the person or officer who is
required thereby, or by law,’ to obey the same, and his obedience
thereto enforced.

214. After the lapse of fiveyears from the entry of judgment, an
execution shall be issued only by leave of the court on motion. Such
leave shall not be given, unless it be established by the oath of the
party or other proof, that the judgment, or some part thereof, remains
unsatisfied and due.

I. This provision sustained.—Hulbut v. Fuller, 3 Code R., 55 ; Currie v. Noyes, 1
Code R., N. S., 198 ; Irwin v. Muz'r, 4 Abbott, 133.

2. Where a judgment remains unpaid more than five years, and after its recovery,
the defendant obtained a discharge in insolvency which was afterwards adjudged void,
held that the plaintifff should have leave to issue execution on the judgment.—Small v.
Wheaten, 2 Abbott, 316.

3. Where an execution has been issued within five years from the entry of judgment, /
the party may issue execution at any time thereafter without application to the coux“t.— X
Pierce v. Craine, 4 How. Pr., 257 ; McSmztth v. Van Deusen, 9 ib., 245 ; Kress v. Ellis,

14 ib., 392.

4. In this application the court will not entertain an objection to the validity of the
judgment.—Lee v. Watkins, 13 ib., 178.

5. A second execution can not issue in any case without leave of the court, on notice
to the defendant, after a lapse of five years.—Sacia v. Nestle, 13 How. Pr., 572.

215. Notwithstanding the death of a party after the judgment, execution thereon against his property may, upon permission granted by
the probate court, be issued and executed in the ‘same manner, and
with the same effect, as if he were still living. ." « ~ ~

216. Where the execution is against the property of the judgment
debtor, it may be issued to the sheriff of any county in the state.
Where it requires the delivery of real or personal property, it shall be
issued to the sheriff of the county where the property, or some part
thereof, is situated. Executions may be issued, at the same time, to

different counties.

‘¢J\r

O

217. [1854.] All goods, chattels, monies, and other property,
real and personal, of the judgment debtor, not exempt by law, and all
property and rights of property, seized and held under attachment in
the action, shall be liable to execution.

Until a levy, property shall not be affected by the execution.

Shares and interests in any corporation or company, and debts and
credits and other property not. capable of manual delivery, may be
attached on execution in like manner as upon writs of attachment.

Gold dust shall be returned by the oilicer as so much money collected, at its current value, without exposing the same to sale.

1. An execution affects property only from the time of levy.—Johnson v. Gorham,
6 Cal., 195.

2. Service of a copy of execution, and notice of garnishment upon a third party,
constitutes no lien on property of the debtor in his hands.—1b.

3. The levy on personal property must be made by taking the property into custody.—Dutertre v. Duirard, 7 Cal., April T.

218. If .the property levied on, be claimed by a third person as
his property, the sheriff shall summon from his county six persons
qualiiied as jurors, between the parties to try the validity of the claim.
He shall also give notice of the claim and of the timepf_ trial to the
plain_ti&', who may appear and contest the claim before the jury. The
jury and the witnesses shall be sworn by the sheriff, and if their verdict
be in favor of the claimant, the sheriff may relinquish the levy, unless
the judgment creditor give him a sullicient indemnity for proceeding
thereon. The fees of the jury, the sheriff, and the witnesses, shall be
paid by the claimant, if the verdict be against him; otherwise by the
plaintifff. On the trial the defendant and the claimant may be examined by the plaintifff as Witnesses.

1. In asuit against the sheriff for not levying the execution, if the sherili‘ prove a

trial by j ury and verdict for claimant, the plaintifff must show that he tendered the bond
of indemnity to the sheriff, required by law.—Strong v. Patterson, 6 Cal., 156.

2. An officer taking goods under civil process is entitled to notice of the claim of a
third party to the goods, and a demand for them, to be liable for damages.—Ta_2/lor v.
Seymour, 6 Cal., 512; Daumiel v. Gorham. ib., 43.

3. If several creditors levy, and those prior faillto indemnify the sheriff, he should
relinquish the levy of such, and proceed only for the benefit of those who indemnify,
and incur the responsibility.—Da2.-idson v. Dallas, 7 Cal., Oct. T.

4. A bond of indemnity given to the sheriff, upon execution, is not invalidated by
the fact that it was given after levy and sale.— Westervelt v. Frost, 1 Abbott, 74.

ment debtor, also two oxen, or two horses, or two mules and their harness, two cows and one cart or wagon, and food for such oxen, horses,
cows or mules, for one month. '

4th. The tools and implements of a mechanic necessary to carry on
his trade, the instruments and chests of a surgeon, physician, surveyor
and dentist, necessary to the exercise of their profession, with the professional library, and the law libraries of an attorney or counselor.

5th. The tent and furniture, including a table, camp stools, bed and
bedding of a miner; also, his rocker, shovels, spades, wheelbarrows,
pumps and other instruments used in mining, with provisions necessary
for his support for one month.

6th. Two oxen, or two horses or two mules, and their harness, and
one . cart or wagon, by the use of which a cartman, teamster, or other
laborer habitually earns his living; and food for such oxen, horses or
mules for one month ; and a horse, harness and vehicle used by a physician or surgeon in making his professional visits.

7th. All fire engines, with the carts, buckets, hose and apparatus

thereto appertaining, of any fire company or department organized
under any law of this state.

8th. All arms and accoutrements required by law to be kept by
any person. But no article mentioned in this section shall be exempt
from execution issued on a judgment recovered for its price, or upon a
mortgage thereon.

9th. All court houses, jails, public offices and buildings, lots, grounds,
and personal property belonging to any county of this state, and all cemeteries, public squares, parks and places, public buildings, town halls,

markets, buildings appertaining to the hre departments, and the lots
and grounds thereunto belonging and appertaining, owned or held by
any town or incorporated city, or dedicated by such town or city to
health, ornament or public use.

1. 6th. A hackney coach is not exempt.—Quigley v. Gorham, 5 Cal., 418.

2. A cartman’s horse, harness and cart are exempt.—Hm-(house v. Rilcers, 1 Duet,
606.

3. A mining claim is not exempt from forced sale.—McKeon v. Bisbee, 8 Cal.,
Jan. T.

4. 9th. A levy upon the county revenues in the hands of the treasurer, was illegal
and void. These funds are authorized by law, and appropriated to distinct purposes,
and are not subject to seizure upon execution.—G¢'llman v. Contra Costa county, 7 Cal.,

July T.

220. The sheriff shall execute the writ against the property of the
judgment debtor, by levying on a sufficient amount of property, if
there be sufficient; collecting or selling the things in action, and selling the other property, and paying to the plaintifff or his attorney, so
much of the proceeds as will satisfy the judgment, or depositing the
amount with the clerk of the court; any excess in the proceeds over
the judgment and the sheriff’s fees, shall be returned to the judgment
debtor. When there is more property of the judgment debtor than is
suilicient to satisfy the judgment and the sheriil"s fees, within the View
of the sheriit, he shall levy only on such part of the property as the
judgment debtor may indicate : provided that the judgment debtor be
present at, and indicate at the time of the levy, such part ; and provided,
that the property indicated be amply sufficient to satisfy such judgment and fees.

221. Before the sale of property on execution, notice thereof shall
be given as follows :

1st. In case of perishable property, by posting written notice of the
time and place of sale, in three public places of the township or city
where the sale is to take place, for such a time as may be reasonable,
considering the character and condition of the property;

2d. In case of other personal property, by posting a similar notice
in three public places of the township or city where the sale is to take
place, not less than five nor more than ten days successively;

3d. In case of real property, by posting a similar notice, par_ti_cularly describing  ppgpertyi for twenty days successively, in three
public places of the township or city where the property is situated,
and also, wl_1e_re_ the property is to be sold; and publishing a copy
thereof once a week, for the same period, in a newspaper in the county,
if there be one.

See Sec. 654.

1. If the officer neglects to give the notice, the sale shall not bevoid.—Smith v. Randall, 6 Cal., 47 ; McFarland v. Abila, 7 ib., April T.; Harvey v. Fiske, 8 ib., Jan. T.

222. An officer selling without the notice prescribed by the last
section, shall forfeit five hundred dollars to the aggrieved party, in
addition to his actual damages; and a person willfully taking down or
defacing the notice posted, if done before the sale or the satisfaction of

the judgment, (if the judgment be satisfied before sale,) shall forfeit
five hundred dollars.

223. All sales of property under execution shall be made at auction to the highest bidder, and shall be made between the hours of nine
in the morning, and five in the afternoon ; after sullicient property has
been sold to satisfy the execution, no more shall be sold. Neither the
officer holding the execution, nor his deputy, shall become a purchaser,
or be interested in any purchase at such sale. When the sale is of

personal property, capable of manual delivery, it shall be within view
of those who attend the sale, and be sold in such parcels as are likely

to bring the highest price; and when the sale is of real property, and

consisting of several known lots or parcels, they shall be sold separately ;

or when a portion of such real property is claimed by a third person,

and he requires it to be sold separately, such portion shall be thus sold.
J

The judgment debtor, if present at the sale, may also direct the order
in which property, real or personal, shall be sold, when such property
consists of several known lots or parcels, or of articles which can be
sold to advantage separately ; and the sheriff shall be bound to follow

I ' I

such directions. \. :5 c c r . .z 1

1. A sheriff’s deputy may execute a deed for property sold under execution, but
he must execute it in the name of the sheriff. If executed in his own name, it is decisive against the party claiming under it.—Lewes v. Thompson, 3 Cal., 266.

2. The statute regulating sheriff ’s sales of real estate does not design to invest a
purchaser with the title until six months after the sale.—Duprey v. Moran, 4 Cal., 196.

3. A purchaser at sheriff’s sale acquires no right whatever against the sheriff for
property sold, unless at the time of the sale he pays down in cash the whole amount of
the purchase money.—People v. Hays, 5 Cal., 66.

4. The sale of separate parcels of land together as one parcel, is always sufficient
cause for setting aside the sa1e.—Ames v. Lockwood, 13 How. Pr., 555.

5. Under what circumstances and on what terms a re-sale of property sold at a judicial sale will be ordered.—Stahl v. Charles, 5 Abbott, 348. .. -’   a r f 5 11. 224. If a purchaser refuse to pay the amount bid by him for
property struck oil‘ to him at a sale under execution, the officer may
again sell the property at any time, to the highest bidder, and if any
loss be occasioned thereby, the officer may recover the amount of such
loss, with costs, by motion upon previous notice of five days before any
court, or before any justice of the peace, if the same shall not exceed
his jurisdiction.

1. This provision of law will be enforced, unless fraud is proven between the officer
and the second purchaser.—Harvey v. Fiske, 8 Cal., Jan. T.

2. The auctioneer may put up the property for sale again if the purchaser does no
comply with the terms of the sale, but this must be on such notice that no one will be
misled by it.—Lentz v. Graig, 2 Abbott, 294.

3. Inadequacy of price, as would amount to a fraud, will authorize a re-sa1e.—Kz'ng
v. Mmvis, 2 Abbott, 296.

4. Actual evidence of fraud may be shown in defense when the party did not know
the condition of the thing purchased, and was induced to buy upon the faith of repre
sentations made by those who, by their peculiar relations to the subject, were supposed
to be thoroughly acquainted with it.— Webster v. Hawortlz, 7 Cal., July T.

225. Such court or justice shall proceed in a summary manner
and give judgment and issue execution therefore forthwith, but the defendant may claim a jury. And the same proceedings may be had
against any subsequent purchaser who shall refuse to pay, and the
oilicer may, in his discretion, thereafter reject the bid of any person
.so refusing.

226. The two preceding sections shall not be construed to make
the officer liable for any more than the amount bid by the second or
subsequent purchaser, and the amount collected from the purchaser

refusing to pay.

227. When the purchaser of any personal property capable of
manual delivery shall pay the purchase money, the officer making the
sale shall deliver to the purchaser the property, and if desired shall
execute and deliver to him a certificate of the sale and payment. Such
certificate shall convey to the purchaser all the right, title and interest
which the debtor had in and to such property on the day the execution

was levied.

228. When the purchaser of any personal property not capable of
manual delivery shall pay the purchase money, the officer making the

sale shall execute and deliver to the purchaser a certificate of sale
and payment. Such certificate shall convey to the purchaser all right,

title and interest which the debtor had in and to such property on ,

the day the execution was levied.

1. The word officer in the two previous sections refers to the incumbent at the time
of the act of sale, and if he be dead his successor cannot perform the duty.—People v.
Baring, 7 Cal., Oct. T. ‘

2. How the act is to be done in such a case, discussed and suggested.—1b.

0229. Upon a sale of real property, when the estate is less than a
leasehold of two years’ unexpired term, the sale shall be absolute. In
all other cases the real property sold shall be subject to redemption, as
provided in this chapter. The officer shall give to the purchaser a certificate of the sale, containing:1st. A particular description of the real property sold;

2d. The price bid for each distinct lot or parcel;

3d. The whole price paid;

4th. When subject to redemption it shall be so stated, a duplicate
of which certificate shall be filed by the oilicer with the recorder of the
county.

230. Property sold subject to redemption, as provided in the last
section, or any part soldseparately, may be redeemed in the manner

hereinafter provided, by the following persons, or their successors in
interest:

1st. The judgment debtor, or his successor in interest, in the whole
or any part of the property.

2d. A creditor, having a lien by judgment or mortgage on the
property sold, or on some share or part thereof, subsequent to that on
which the property was sold. The persons mentioned in the second
subdivision of this section, are, in this chapter, termed redemptioners.

1. The redemption should be beneficially construed.—Kent v. Lafan, 2 Cal., 595.

2. A party, (the assignee of the judgment debtor,) is bound to pay the whole of the
plaintifff ’s judgment in order to redeem, and not merely his bid with interest. The lieu
of the judgment continues till the balance is paid.— Vandyke v. Herman, 3 Cal., 295.

3. Upon the redemption, the redeeming party has a right to an assignment of the
mortgage redeemed, and, if it be recorded, a right to require the mortgagee to acknowledge the assignment.—Averill v. Taylor, 4 Seld., 44.

4. A redemption of land may be made at any time before the close of the last day
allowed by law for the purpose; business hours are not regarded in this respect.—Peoplc v. Perrin, 1 How. Pr., 75.

231. The judgment debtor, or a redemptioner, may redeem the
property from the purchaser within six months after the sale, on paying the purchaser the amount of his purchase, with eighteen per cent.
thereon in addition, together with the amount of any assessments or
taxes which the purchaser may have paid thereon after the purchase,
and interest on such amount; and if the purchaser be also a creditor,
having a lien prior to that of the redemptioner, the amount of such

lien with interest.

1 . When property was sold under judgment prior to the passage of the act providing
for redemption, there is no right of redemption.—People v. Hays, 4 Cal., 127 ; Seale v.
llfitchell, 5 Cal., 401.

2. The purchaser may have a lien upon the property prior to that of the redemptioner, and that lien must be paid.—Km'ght v. Fair, 8 Cal., Jan. T.

3. A junior encumbrancer is entitled to redeem a prior mortgage, and is entitled to
a subrogation of the rights of the senior mortgagce.—Jenkins v. Continental Insurance

Co., 12 How. Pr., 66.

4. The redemption money must be paid to the properly authorized person or officer.
Grijfin v. Chase, 23 Barb., 278.

232. If the property be so redeemed by a redemptioner, either the
judgment debtor, or another redemptioner may, within sixty days after
the last redemption, again redeem it from the last redemptioner, on

paying the sum paid on such last redemption, with six per cent. thereon
in addition, and the amount of any assessments or taxes which the said
last redemptioner may have paid thereon, after the redemption by
him, with interest on such amount; and the amount of any liens held
by said last redemptioner prior to his own, with interest. The property may be again, and as often as the debtor or any redemptioner is so
disposed, redeemed from any previous redemptioner, within sixty days
after the last redemption, on paying the sum paid on the last previous
redemption, with six per cent. thereon in addition, and the amount or
any assessments or taxes which the said last previous redemptioner
paid after the redemption by him, with interest thereon ; and the
amount of any liens held by the said last redemptioner, previous to his
own, with interest. Notice of redemption shall be given to the sheriff.
If no redemption be made within six months after the sale, the purchaser shall be entitled to a conveyance ; or if so redeemed, whenever
sixty days have elapsed, andnno other redemption has been made, and
notice thereof given, the time for redemption shall have expired, and
the last redemptioner shall be entitled to a sheriff’s deed. If the
debtor redeem at any time before the time for redemption expires, the
effects of the sale shall be terminated, and he be restored to his

estate.

1. A sheriff’s deputy may execute a deed for property sold under execution, but he
must execute it in the name of the sheriff. If executed in his own name, it is decisive
against the party claiming under it.—Lewes v. Thompson, 3 Cal., 266.

2. A mandamus will not lie against a sheriff to compel him to make a deed to land
to a purchaser at execution sale who refuses to pay the purchase money, for the reason
that he is the oldest judgment and execution creditor, and entitled to the money; especially when there is an unsettled contest as to the question of lien.— W'z'llz'ams v. Smith,
6 Cal., 91.

3. Under what circumstances and upon what terms a re-sale of property sold at a.

judicial sale will be ordered.—Lentz v. Craig, 2 Abbott, 294; King v. Morris, ib., 296 ‘_

Merchant’s Insurance Co. v. Hinman, 3 ib., 455. ‘- '

233. The payment mentioned in the last two sections may be
made to the purchaser or redemptioner, as the case may be, or for
him, to the officer who made the sale; and a. tender of the money
shall be equivalent to payment.

1. Where land was sold at sheriff’s sale, the proceeds of which did not amount to
the whole judgment, leaving a balance unpaid, and was afterwards redeemed under

the statute, held, that the party redeeming, (who was an assignee of the judgment
debtor,) was bound to pay the whole of the plaintifff’s judgment, and not merely his bid

f\

..-____-.-- _---.- ’_v_

with interest, and eighteen per cent., and that the lieu of the judgment continued until
the balance was paid.—Vand_ylce v. Herman, 3 Cal., 295.

2. A payment to the sheriff for the redemption of land sold under execution, cannot
be made in certified checks.—People v. Hays, 4 Cal., 127.

3. The “ officer who made the sale ” refers to the incumbent at the time of the act
of sale, and not to the otiicial character of the person, and if he be dead his successor

cannot perform the duty, 1'. e. receive the redemption money.—People v. Boring, 7
Cal., Oct. T.
4. How redemption money in such cases is to be paid discussed and suggested.—1b.

234. A redemptioner shall produce to the odicer or person from
whom he seeks to redeem, and serve with his notice to the sheriff ;

1st. A copy of the docket of the judgment under which he claims
the right to redeem, certified by the clerk of the court, or of the county
where the judgment is docketed; or if he redeem upon a mortgage
or other lien, a note of the record thereof certified by the recorder ;

2d. A copy of any assignment necessary to establish his claim,
verified by the affidavit of himself, or of a subscribing witness thereto;
and, .

3d. An aiiidavit by himself, or his agent, showing the amount then
actually due on the lien.

235. Until the expiration of the time allowed for redemption, the
court may restrain the commission of waste on the property, by order
granted with or without notice, on the application of the purchaser or
the judgment creditor. But it shall not be deemed waste for the person in possession of the property at the time of sale, or entitled to possession afterwards, during the period allowed for redemption, to continue to use it in the same manner in which it was previously used;
or to use in the ordinary c6urse of husbandry; or to make the necessary repairs of buildings thereon; or to use wood or timber on the
property therefore ; or for the repair of fences; or for fuel in his family
while he occppies the property.  . . _,’

1.‘ A purchaser under sheriff’s sale has no right to the possession of the premises

until the expiration of the time allowed for redemption.—Guy v. .Middleton, 5 Cal.,
392.

236. ' The purchaser from the time of the sale until a redemption,
and a redemptioner, from the time of his redemption until another redemption, shall be entitled to receive from the tenant in possession,

the rentshof the property sold, or the value of the use and occupation
thereof.

1. Although not entitled to possession, yet he has a right to the rents and profits.Reynolds v. Lathrop, 7 Cal., Jan. T.

237. If the purchaser of real property sold on execution, or his
successor in interest, be evicted therefrom in consequence of ' irregularity in the proceedings concerning the sale, or of the reversal or discharge of the judgment, he may recover the price paid, with interest,
from the judgment creditor. If the recovery be in consequence of
the irregularity in the proceedings concerning the sale, the judgment
may, by order of the court,-upon notice to the judgment debtor, be
revived, and a new execution issued for the price paid on the sale,
with interest. Such judgment shall be a lien on the real estate of the
judgment debtor, only from the time of its revival.

CHAPTER II.

PROCEEDINGS SUPPLEMENTARY TO THE EXECUTION.

238. When an execution against property 'of the judgment debtor,

or of any one of several debtors in the same judgment, issued to the
sheriff of the county where he resides ; or if he do not reside in this

state, to the sheriff of the county where the judgment roll is filed; is
returned unsatisfied in whole or in part, the judgment creditor, at any
time after such return is made, shall be entitled to an order from a
judge of the court, or a county judge, requiring such judgment debtor
to appear and answer concerning his property, before such judge, or a
referee appointed by him, at a time and place specified in the order;
but no judgment debtor shall be required to attend before a judge or
referee out of the county in which he resides, when proceedings are
taken under the provisions of this chapter.

1. These proceedings are a. substitute for a. creditor’s bill in the old practice.—Adams v. Hac/cett, 7 Cal., Jan. T.

2. These provisions are not applicable to judgments against corporations——Hz'nds
v. Canandaigua, R. R. 00., 10 How. Pr., 487 ; Sherwood v. Bufalo R. R. Co., 12 ib., 136.

3. On application for the appointment of a receiver upon proceedings supplementiry to execution, the judgment debtor cannot object to the appointment on the ground

239. [1854.] After the issuing an execution against property, and
upon proof by affidavit of a party, or otherwise, to the satisfaction of
the court or of a judge thereof, or county judge, that any judgment
debtor has property which he unjustly refuses to apply towards the
satisfaction of the judgment, such court or judge may, by an order,
require the judgment debtor to appear at a specified time and place
before such judge, or a referee appointed by him, to answer concerning the same ; and such proceedings may thereupon be had for the
application of the property of the judgment debtor toward the satisfaction of the judgment, as are provided upon the return of an execution.
Instead of the order requiring the attendance of the judgment debtor,
the judge may, upon affidavit of the judgment creditor, his agent or
attorney, if it appear to him that there is danger of the debtor absconding, order the sheriff to arrest the debtor and bring him before
such judge. Upon being brought before the judge, he may be ordered
to enter into an undertaking with sufficient surety, that he will attend
from time to time before the judge or referee, as shall be directed,
during the pendency of proceedings, and until the final determination
thereof, and will not in the mean time dispose of any portion of his
property not exempt from execution. In default of entering into such
undertaking, he may be committed to prison.

240. After the issuing of an execution against property, any person indebted to the judgment debtor may pay to the sheriff the amount
of his debt, or so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy the execution, and the sheriff ’s receipt shall be a sufficient discharge for the
amount so paid. '

1. The issuing of a second ‘execution is not waiver of supplementary proceedings
commenced after the return of the first execution.—Lilliendahl v. Fellerman, 11 How.
Pr., 528.

241. After the issuing or return of an execution against property
of the judgment debtor, or of any one of several debtors in the same
judgment, and upon proof by affidavit or otherwise, to the satisfaction
of the judge, that any person or corporation has property of such judgment debtor, or is indebted to him in an amount exceeding fifty dollars,
the judge may, by an order, require such person or corporation, or
any officer or member thereof, to appear at a specified time and place,
before him or a referee appointed by him, and answer concerning the
same.

1. If it appears on examination of witnesses that a third person, not a party to the
proceeding, is in possession of property liable to an execution, belongingto a judgment
debtor, the proper remedy is to levy on the goods and sell them, or to institute an action in the nature of a creditor’s bill against the debtor and his fraudulent assignee.—
Dorr v. Noxon, 5 How. Pr., 29.

242. Witnesses may be required to appear and testify before the
judge, or referee, upon any proceeding under this chapter in the same

manner as upon the trial of an issue.

243. The judge or referee may order any property of the judgment debtor, not exempt from execution, in the hands of such debtor
or any other person, or due to the judgment debtor, to be applied toward
the satisfaction of the judgment ; except that the earnings of the debtor
for his personal services, at any time within thirty days next preceding
the order shall not be so applied, when it shall be made to appear by the
debtor’s aiiidavit, or otherwise, that such earnings are necessary for

the use of a family supported wholly or partly by his labor.

1. Where an order for the examination of persons indebted to a judgment debtor
was made, and it appeared upon the appearance of the parties for examination, that the
debtor was dead at the time when the order was made, held, that the proceedings were

abated by his death.—Hasewell v. Penman, 2 Abbott, 230.

244. If it appear that a person or corporation alleged to have
property of the judgment debtor, or indebted to him, claims an interest
in the property adverse to him, or denies the debt, the court or_ judge
may authorize, by an order made to that effect, the judgment creditor
to institute an action against such person or corporation, for the recovery of such interest or debt ; and the court or judge may, by an order,
forbid a transfer or other disposition of such interest or debt, until an
action can be commenced and prosecuted to judgment. Such order
may be modified or vacated by the judge granting the same, or the
court in which the action is brought, at any time, upon such terms as
may be just.

245. If any person, party or witness, disobey an order of the referee, properly made in the proceedings before him under this chapter,
he may be punished by the court or judge ordering the reference, for
a contempt.

1. It is contempt for a party to refuse to obey or answer the writ on the ground
that he is a witness attending on another court.—Page v. Randall, 6 Cal., 32.

247. If there be surplus money remaining after payment of the
amount due on the mortgage, lien or encumbrance, with costs, the
court may cause the same to be paid to the person entitled to it, and
in the meantime may direct it to be deposited in court.

248. If the debt for which the mortgage, lien or encumbrance is
held, be not all due, so soon as suiiicient of the property has been sold
to pay the amount due, with costs, the sale shall cease; and afterwards, as often as more becomes due, for principal or interest, the
court may, on motion, order more to be sold. But if the property
cannot be sold in portions, without injury to the parties, the whole may
be ordered to be sold in the first instance, and the entire debt and
costs paid, there being a rebate of interest where such rebate is

proper.

1. A defendant cannot object that his wife, who joined in executing the mortgage
is not made a co-defendant.—Powell v. Ross, 4 Cal., 197.

2. In a suit to foreclose a mortgage, an adverse claimant cannot be made a party
for the purpose of testing the validity of his adverse title.— Cbming v. Smith, 2 Seld., 82.’

CHAPTER II.

ACTIONS FOR NUISANCE, WASTE AND WILLFUL TRESPASS, IN CERTAIN
CASES, ON REAL PROPERTY.

249. Anything which is injurious to health, or indecent, or oH'ensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as
to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, is a
nuisance, and the subject of an action. Such action may be brought

by any person whose property is injuriously a&'ected, or whose personal enjoyment is lessened by the nuisance ; and by- the judgment the
nuisance may be enjoined or abated, as well as damages recovered.

1. The right to recover for use and occupation is founded alone on contract.
A trespass dies with the trespasser.—0’ Conner v. Corbitt, 3 Cal., 370.

2. A person in authority, who destroys the house of another in good faith, and
under apparent necessity, during the time of a conflagration, for the purpose of saving
the buildings adjacent, and stopping its progress, is not personally liable in an action
by the owner of the property destroyed.—Dunbar v. San Francisco, 1 Cal., 355; Saracco v. Geary, 3 Cal.., 69.

3. The common law remedy in the abatement of nuisances, still remains in those
cases not embraced in the statute.—Sfiles v. Laird, 5 Cal., 120.

250. If a guardian, tenant for life or years, joint tenant, or tenant
in common of real property, commit waste thereon, any person aggrieved by the waste may bring an action against him therefore, in
which action there may be judgment for treble damages.

251. Any person who shall cut down, or carry of any wood or
underwood, tree or timber, or girdle or otherwise injure any tree or
timber on the land of another person, or on the street or highway in
front of any person’s house, village or city lot, or cultivated grounds;
or on the commons or public grounds of any city or town ; or on the
street or highway in front thereof, without lawful authority, shall be
liable tothe owner of such land, or to such city or town, for treble the
amount of damages which may be assessed therefore, in a civil action,

in any court having jurisdiction.

252. Nothing in the last section shall authorize the recovery of
more than the just value of the timber taken from uncultivated woodland, for the repair of a public highway or bridge upon the land, or

adjoining it.

253. If a person recover damages for a forcible or unlawful entry
in or upon, or detention of, any building or any cultivated real property, judgment may be entered for three times the amount at which
the actual damages are assessed.

1. The demand for treble damages must be expressly inserted in the declaration.Chipman v. Emeric, 5 Cal., 239.

255. If the defendant in such action disclaim in his answer, any

interest or estate in the property, or suifer judgment to be taken against
him without answer, the plaintifff shall not recover costs.

256. In an action for the recovery of real property, where the
plaintifff shows a right to recover at the time the action was commenced,
but it appears that his right has terminated during the pendency of the
action, the verdict and judgment shall be according to the fact ; and
the plaintiff may recover damages for withholding the property.

257. When damages are claimed for withholding the property
recovered, upon which permanent improvements have been made by
a defendant, or those under whom he claims, holding under color of
title adversely to the claims of the plaintifff, in good faith, the value
of such improvements shall be allowed as a set-off against such damages.

1. Sustained.—Ford v. Holton, 5 Cal., 319 ; Walsh v. Sullivan, 7 Cal., Oct. T.

258. The court in which an action is pending for the recovery of
real property, may on motion, upon notice by either party, for good
causeshown, grant an order allowing to such party the right to enter

upon the property, and make survey and measurement thereof, for the
purposes of the action.

259. The order shall describe the property, and a copy thereof
shall be served on the owner or occupant ; and thereupon such party

may enter upon the property, with necessary surveyors and assistants, and may make such survey and measurements; but if any

unnecessary injury be done to the property, he shall be liable therefore._

260. A mortgage of real property shall not be deemed a conveyance, whatever its terms, so as to enable the owner of'the mortgage to
recover possession of the real property without a foreclosure and sale.

261. The court may, by injunction, on good cause shown, restrain
the party in possession from doing any act to the injury of real property during the foreclosure of a mortgage thereon; or after a sale on
execution before a conveyance. " " » , P - ..,a 2, 3 5’ _

»/4" 262. When real property shall have been sold on execution, the
purchaser thereof, or any person who may have succeeded to his interest, may, after his estate becomes absolute, recover damages for injury to the property by the tenant in posssession, after sale and before
possession is delivered under the conveyance. '

263. An action for the recovery of real property against a person
in‘possession, carmot be prejudiced by any alienation made by such person, either before or after the commencement of the action.

CHAPTER IV.
ACTIONS FOR THE PARTITION or REAL PROPERTY.

264. [1854.] When several persons hold and are in possession
of real property, as joint tenants, or as tenants in common, in which
one or more of them have an estate of inheritance, or for life or lives,
or for years, an action may be brought by one or more of such persons for a partition thereof, according to the respective rights of the
persons interested therein ; and for a sale of such property, or a part
of it, if it appear that a partition cannot be made without great prejudice to the owners.

1. A suit for the partition of lands is a regular proceeding, and may be prosecuted
by summons and c0mplaint.—Myers v. Rasback, 4 How. Pr., 63.

265. The interests of all persons, in the property, whether such
persons be known or unknown, shall be set forth in the complaint specifically and particularly, as far as known to the plaintiff; and if one or
more of the parties, or the share or quantity of interest of any of the
parties, be unknown to the plaintifff, or be uncertain or contingent, or

the ownership of the inheritance depend upon an executory devise, or

the remainder be a contingent remainder, so that such parties cannot
be named, that fact shall be set forth in the complaint.

266. No persons who have or claim any liens upon the property, by

mortgage, judgment, or otherwise, need be made parties to the action,
unless such liens be matters of record.

267. Immediately after filing the complaint, the plaint-iii‘ shall file
with the recorder of the county in which the property is situated, a

notice of the pendency of the action, containing the names of the parties 

so far as known, the object of the action, and a description of the prop— 6

erty to be affected thereby. From the time of the filing, it shall be
deemed’ notice to all persons.

268. The summons shall be directed to all the joint tenants and
tenants in common, and all persons having any interest in, or any liens
of record by mortgage, judgment or otherwise, upon the property, or

upon any particular portion thereof ; and generally, to all persons unknown, who have or claim any interest in the property.

1. Two corporations cannot hold land together as joint tenants. De VVitt v. City of
San Francisco, 2 Cal., 289.

269. If a party having a share or interest is unknown, or any one
of the known parties reside out of the state, or cannot be found therein,
and such fact is made to appear by affidavit, the summons may be .~,,
served on such absent or unknown party, by publication, as in other
cases. When publication is made, the summons, as published, shall be

accompanied by a brief description of the property which is the subject
of the action.

See Sec. 31.

270. i The defendants who have been personally served with the
summons, and a certified copy of the complaint, shall set forth in their
answers, fully and particularly, the nature and extent of their interest
in the property; and if such defendants claim a lien upon the property, by mortgage, judgment, or otherwise, they shall state the amount
and date of the same, and the amount remaining due thereon, and
whether the amount has been secured in any other way or not; and if

secured, the extent and nature of the security ; or they shall be deemed
to have waived their right to such lien.

271. The rights of the several parties, plaintifffs as well as defendants, may be put in issue, tried and determined by such action ; and
when a sale of the premises is necessary, the title shall be ascertained
by proof to the satisfaction of the court, before the judgment of sale
shall be made ; and where service of the complaint has been made
by publication, like proof shall be required of the right of the absent
or unknown parties, before such judgment is rendered; except that
where there are several unknown persons having an interest in the
property, their rights may be considered together in the action, and
not as between themselves.

272. The plaintifff shall produce to the court, on the hearing of the
case, the certificate of the recorder of the county where the property
is situated, showing whether there were or not any liens outstanding
of record upon the property, or any part thereof, at the time of the
commencement of the action.

273. If it appear by the certificate of the recorder that there were
outstanding liens of record at the time of the commencement of the
action, and the persons holding or claiming such liens are not made
parties to the_action, the court shall either order such parties to be
brought in by an amendment, or supplemental complaint, or appoint a
referee to ascertain whether their liens have been paid; or if not paid,
what amount remains due, and their order among the liens held by the
parties who have appeared and answered ; and whether the amount
remaining due thereon has been secured in any way, and if secured,
the extent and nature of the security.

274. The plaintifff shall cause a notice to be served a reasonable
time previous to the day for appearance before the referee appointed,
as provided in last section, on each person having outstanding liens of
record, who is not a party to the action, to appear before the referee
at a specified time and place, to make proof by his own affidavit or
otherwise of the true amount due, or to become due, contingently or absolutely thereon. In case such person be absent, or his residence be
unknown, service may be made by publication, or notice to his agents,
under the direction of the court, in such manner as may be proper.
The report of the referee thereon shall be made to the court, and shall

be confirmed, modified, or set aside, and a new reference ordered, as
the justice of the case may require.

275. If it be alleged in the complaint, and be established by evidence, or if it appear by the evidence without such allegation in the _
complaint, to the satisfaction of the court, that the property, or any
part of it, is so situated that partition cannot be made without great ' ‘
prejudice to the owners, the court may order a sale thereof. Otherwise, upon the requisite proofs being made, it shall order a partition,

according to the respective rights of the parties, as ascertained by the .
court, and appoint three referees therefore; and shall designate the por- "
tion to remain undivided for the owners whose interests remain unknown
or are not ascertained.

1. Notice of commissioners’ proceedings in partition is not required by statute to be
given to the parties. The parties, however, should have an opportunity to be heard
before the commissioners, before making partition. Row v. Row, 4 How. Pr., 133.

276. In making the partition, the referees shall divide the property, and allot the several portions thereof to the respective parties,
quality and quantity relatively considered, according to the respective
rights of the parties, as determined by the court, designating the several portions by proper landmarks; and may employ a surveyor, with
the necessary assistants, to aid them therein.

277. The referees shall make a report of their proceedings, specifying therein the manner of executing their trust, describing the prop— 3
erty divided, and the shares allotted to each party, with a particular
description of each share.

278. The court may confirm or set aside the report, and if necessary, appoint new referees. Upon the report being confirmed, judg- »
ment shall be rendered that such partition be e&'ectual forever; which
judgment shall be binding and conclusive:

1st. On all persons named as parties to the action, and their legal
representatives, who have at the time any interest in the property divided, or any part thereof, as owners in fee, or as tenants for life, or 5
for years ; or as entitled to the reversion, remainder, or the inheritance of such property, or of any part thereof after the termination of
a particular estate therein; and who, by any contingency, may be entitled to a beneficial interest in the property, or who have an interest
in any undivided share thereof, as tenants for years or for life ;

2d. On all persons interested in the property, who maybe unknown,
to whom notice shall have been given of the action for partition by

. publication ; and,

3d. On all other persons claiming from such parties or persons, or
either of them.

1. The report of commissioners in partition will be set aside only upon grounds

similar to those upon which a verdict would be set aside and a new trial granted.
Doubleday v. Newton, 9 How. Pr., 71.

279. But such. judgment and partition shall not afect tenants for

years less than ten, to the whole of the property which is the subject
of the partition.

280. The expenses of the referees, including those of a surveyor
and his assistant, when employed, shall be ascertained and allowed by
the court; and the amount thereof, together with the fees allowed by

law to the referees, shall be apportioned among the diiferent parties to
the action.

281. When a lien is on an undivided interest or estate of any of the
parties, such lien, if a partition be made, shall thenceforth be a charge
only on the share assigned to such party ; but such share shall be first
charged with its just proportion of the costs of the partition, in preference to such lien.

282. When a part of the property only is ordered to be sold, if
there be an estate for life, or years, in an undivided share of the whole

property, such estate may be set oil‘ in any part of the property not
ordered to be sold.

283. The proceeds of the sale of the incumbered property shall be
applied under the direction of the court, as follows:

1st. To pay its just proportion of the general costs of the action ;

2d. To pay the costs of the reference;

3d. To satisfy and cancel of record the several liens in their order
of priority, by payment of the sums due and to become due ; the
amount due to be verified by aiiidavit at the time of payment;

4th. The residue among the owners of the property sold, according
to their respective shares therein. .

284. Whenever any party to an action who holds a lien upon the
property, or any part thereof, has other securities for the payment of (
the amount of such lien, the» court may, in its discretion, order such .44
securities to be exhausted before a distribution of the proceeds of sale,
or may order a just deduction to be made from the amount of the lien
on the property, on account thereof.

285. The proceeds of sale, and the securities taken by the referees, or any part thereof, shall be distributed by them to the persons
entitled thereto, whenever the court so directs. But in case no direction be given, all such proceeds and securities shall be paid into court,
or deposited therein, or as directed by the court.

286. When the proceeds of sales of any shares or parcels belonging to persons who are parties to the action, and who are known, are
paid into court, the action may be continued as between such parties, "’
for the determination of their respective claims thereto, which shall be I
ascertained and adjudged by the court. Further testimony may be
taken in court, or by a referee, at the discretion of the court, and the
court may, if necessary, require such parties to present the facts or
law in controversy, by pleadings, as in an original action.

287. All sales of real property, made by referees under this chapter, shall be made by public auctionto the highest bidder, upon notice published in ‘the manner required for the sale of real property on execution. The notice shall state the terms of sale, and if the property or

any part of it is to be sold, subject to a prior estate, charge, or lien, that
shall be stated in the notice.

288. The court shall, in the order for sale, direct the terms of
credit which may be allowed for the purchase money of any portion of
the premises of which it may direct a sale on credit, and for that portion of which the purchase money is required, by the provisions hereinafter contained, to be invested for the benefit of unknown owners, infants, or parties out of the state.

L’!

289. [1854.] The referees may take separate mortgages and
other securities for the whole or convenient portions of the purchase
money, of such parts of the property as are directed by the court to be

sold on credit, for the shares of any known owner of full age, in the
name of such owner ; and for the shares of an infant in the name of the
guardian of such infant ; and for other shares in the name of the clerk

2-1

of the county and his successors in office. '~ , - "3. 5, . ; _ 3...

290. The person entitled to a tenancy for life, or years, whose
estate shall have been sold, shall be entitled to receive such sum as
may be deemed a reasonable satisfaction for such estate, and which the
person so entitled may consent to accept instead thereof, by an instrument in writing filed with the clerk of the court. Upon the filing of
such consent, the clerk shall enter the same in the minutes of the court.

291. If such consent be not given, filed and entered, as provided
in the last section, at or before a judgment of sale is rendered, the
court shall ascertain and determine what proportion of the proceeds of

the sale, after deducting expenses, will be a just and reasonable sum
to be allowed on account of such estate ; and shall order the same to
be paid to such party, or deposited in court for him, as the case may
require.

292. If the persons entitled to such estate for life or years be un‘ 7 known, the court shall provide for the protection of their rights, in the

same manner,'as far as may be, as if they were known and had appeared.

29.3. In all cases of sales, when it appears that any person has a
vested or contingent future right or estate in any of the property sold,
the court shall ascertain and settle the proportional value of such contingent, or vested right or estate, and shall direct such proportion of
the proceeds of the sale to be invested, secured or paid over, in such
manner as to protect the rights and interests of the parties.

294. In all cases of sales of property, the terms shall be made
known at the time; and if the premises consist of distinct farms or lots,
they shall be sold separately.

295. Neither of the referees, nor any person for the benefit of

either of them, shall be interested in any purchase ; nor shall a guardian of an infant party be interested in the purchase of any real property, being the subject of the action, except for the benefit of the infant. _
All sales contrary to the provisions of this section shall be void. ‘

296. After completing a sale of the property, or any part thereof
ordered to be sold,~the referees shall report the same to the court, with
a description of the different parcels of land sold, to each purchaser ;
the name of the purchaser ; the price paid as secured ; the terms and
conditions of the sale ; and the securities, if any, taken.

L
7)
‘I:

‘U/

The report M

shall be filed in the oiiiceof the clerk of the county where the property 1

is situated.

1

297. If the sale be confirmed by the court, an order shall be entered, directing the referees to execute conveyances and take securities pursuantto such sale; which they are hereby authorized to do.
Such order may also give directions to them respecting the disposition
of the proceeds of the sale.

298. When a party entitled to a share of the property, or an encumbrancer entitled to have his lien paid out of the sale, becomes a purchaser, the referees may take his receipt for so much of the proceeds
of the sale as belongs to him.

299. The conveyances shall be recorded in the county where the
premises are situated, and shall be a bar against all persons interested
in the property in any way, who shall have been named as parties in
the action ; and against all such parties and persons as were unknown,
if the summons had been served by publication, and against all persons
claiming from them, or either of them.

300. When there are proceeds of sale belonging to an unknown
owner, or to a person without the state, who has no legal representative within it, the same shall be invested in securities on interest, for
the benefit of the persons entitled thereto.

E

W

/

301. When the security of the proceeds of sale is taken, or -when an investment of any such proceeds is made, it shall be done,
except as herein otherwise provided, in the name of the clerk of the

county where the papers are filed and his successors in oilice, who

shall hold the same for the use and benefit of the parties interested,
subject to the order of the court. 4,,‘ j“ ‘ 3 0 5

302. When security is taken by the referees on a sale, and the
parties interested in such security, by an instrument in writing under
their hands, delivered to the referees, agree upon the shares and proportions to which they are respectively entitled ; or, when shares and
proportions have been previously adjudged by the court; such securi_ties shall be taken in the names of, and payable to, the parties respectively entitled thereto; and shall be delivered to such parties upon

their receipt therefore. Such agreement and receipt shall be returned
and filed with the clerk. _ x

303. The clerk in whose name a security is taken, or by whom an
investment is made, and his successors in office, shall receive the interest and principal as it becomes due, and apply and invest the same as
the court may direct; and shall file in his office all securities taken,
and keep an account in a book provided and kept for that purpose, in
the clerk’s office, free for inspection by all persons, of investments and
monies received by him thereon, and the disposition thereof.

L 304. When it appears that partition cannot be made equal between
the parties, according to their respective rights, without prejudice to
the rights and interests of some of them, and a partition be ordered by
judgment, the court may adjudge compensation to be made by one
party to another, on account of the inequality of partition. But such
compensation shall not be required to be made to others, by owners
unknown, nor by infants, unless, in case of an infant, it appear that he
has personal property sufficient for that purpose, and that his interest
will be promoted thereby.

305. When the share of an infant is sold, the proceeds of the sale
may be paid by the referee making the sale to his general guardian,
or the special guardian appointed for him in the action, upon giving
the security required by law, or directed by order of the court.

306. The guardian who may be entitled to the custody and management of the estate of an insane person, or other person adjudged

incapable of conducting his own affairs, whose interest in real property
shall have been sold, may receive, in behalf of such person, his share
of the proceeds of such real property, from the referees, on executing I
with sufficient sureties, an undertaking approved by a judge of the /
court, or by a county judge, that he will faithfully discharge the trust
reposed in him, and will render a true and just account to the person
entitled, or to his legal representative.

307. The general guardian of an infant, and the guardian entitled
to the custody and management of the estate of an insane person, or
other person adjudged incapable of conducting his own affairs, who _is
interested in real estate held in joint tenancy, or in common, or in any
other manner so as to authorize his being made a party to an action for
the partition thereof, may consent to a partition without action, and
agree upon the share to be set off to such infant, or other person entitled, and may execute a release in. his behalf to the owners of the

shares, of the parts to which they may be respectively entitled, upon
an order of the court. ’

308. The costs of partition, including fees of referees and other
disbursements, shall be paid by the parties respectively entitled to
share in the lands divided, in proportion to their respective interests
therein, and may be included and specified in the judgment. In that
case they shall be a lien on the several shares, and the judgment may
be enforced by execution against such shares, andagainst other property held by the respective parties. When, however, a litigation arises
between some of the parties only, the court may require the expense of
such litigation to be paid by the parties thereto, or any of them.

\

-. K-.

;'

&\

309. The court, with the consent of the parties, may appoint a A

single referee, instead of three referees, in the proceedings under the
provisions of this chapter; and the single referee, when thus appointed, shall have all the powers and perform all the duties required of
the three referees.

CHAPTER V.
ACTIONS FOR THE USURPATION or AN OFFICE on FRANCHISE.

310. An action may be brought by the attorney general in the
name of the people of this state, upon his own information, or upon the
complaint of a private party, against any person who usurps, intrudes
into, or unlawfully holds or exercises any public office, civil or military,
or any franchise within this state. And it shall be the duty of the attorney general to bring the action whenever he has reason to believe
that any such office or franchise has been usurped, intruded into, or
unlawfully held or exercised by any person, or when he is directed to
do so by the governor.

See Section 25, p. 15.

1. In an action in the nature of a quo warranto, the place of trial may properly be
laid in any county of the state.—People v. Cook, 6 How. Pr., 448.

2. Otlice terms should not be extended beyond the time clearly defined, but rather
shortened by implication, if necessary.—People v. Brenham, 3 Cal., 477.

3. An action in the nature of a quo warranto is the only proper remedy where an

unauthorized person has usurped the office of alderman, in a municipal corporation.Lewis v. Oliver, 4 Abbott, 121.311. Whenever such action is brought, the attorney general, in
addition to the statement of the cause of action, may also set forth
in the complaint the name of the person rightly entitled to the office,
with a statement of his right thereto; and in such case, upon proof by
aihdavit that the defendant has received fees or emoluments belonging
to‘ the office, and by means of his usurpation thereof, an order may be
granted by a judge of the supreme court, or a district judge, for the
arrest of such defendant, and holding him to bail; and thereupon he
may be arrested, and held to bail, in the same manner, and with the
same effect, and subject to the same rights and liabilities, as in other
civil actions where the defendant is subject to arrest.

1. Our statutes recognize the difference between mandamus and quo warranto, as
held in England.—People v. Olds, 3 Cal., 167.

2. The complaint, to authorize the party claimant to be plaintifff, should state facts
showing that he is entitled to the office from which the defendant is sought to be onsted.—People v. Ryder, 2 Kern, 433.

3. It rests in the discretion of the attorney general to bring an action against a per’ _-son alleged to have usurped a public office. A mandamus will not be granted to compel him to institute such action.—People v. Attorney General, 3 Abbott, 131.

4. Under this action an injunction restraining generally the functions of the oiiice,
is not authorized by law.—People v. Draper, 14 How. Pr., 233.

312. In every such case judgment may be rendered upon the right
of the defendant, and also upon the right of the party so alleged to be
entitled ; or only upon the right of the defendant, as justice shall
require.

313. If the judgment be rendered upon the right of the person so
alleged to be entitled, and the same be in favor of such person, he
shall be entitled, after taking the oath of office, and executing such
official bond as may be required by law, to take upon himself the execution of the office.

314. If judgment be rendered upon the right of the person so alleged to be entitled, in favor of such person, he may recover, by ac_tio!I1*,
the damages which he shall have sustained by reason of the usurpation
of the office by the defendant.

1. In an action in the nature of a quo warranto, brought against an alleged intruder
upon a public oiiice, the judgment of the court, if for the plaintifff, can only be a judgment of ouster, and for costs. The claim for fees must be asserted in a separate action.—People v. Snedeker, 3 Abbott, 233.

315. When several persons claim to be entitled to the same office
or franchise, one action may be brought against all such persons, in

i order to try their respective rights to such office or franchise.

316. When a defendant, against whom‘ such action has been
brought, is adjudged guilty of usurping or intruding into, or unlawfully
holding any oilice, franchise, or privilege, judgment shall be rendered
that such defendant be excluded from the office, franchise, or’ privilege,
and that he pay the costs of the action. The court may also, in its
discretion, impose upon the defendant a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars; Which fine, when collected, shall be paid into the treasury
.of the state.

~ CHAPTER VI.

OF ACTIONS AGAINST STEAMERS, VESSELS, AND BOATS.(a)

1. Admiralty jurisdiction must be received, pro tanto, in principle and forms, in
state courts.-—Averz'll v. Hartford, 2 Cal., 308; Taylor v. Columbia, 5 Cal., 268 ; Wama‘
v. Uncle Sam, 8 Cal., April ‘T. °

2. For a full decision on points of jurisdiction, &c., of this chapter, see Thompson v.
Julius D. Morwn, 23 Ohio, 26 ; 3 Livingston’s Law Mag.-, 125.

317. All steamers, vessels, and boats shall be liable:

1st. For supplies furnished for their use at the request of their respective owners, masters, agents, or consignees;

2d. For services rendered on board at the request of, or on contract
with, their respective owners, masters, agents, or consignees ; J2; J2:

3d. For materials furnished in their construction, or repair, or
equipment ;

4th. For their wharfage and anchorage within the state ;

5th. For non-performance or mal-performance of any contract for
the transportation of persons or property, made by their respective
owners, masters, agents, or consignees;

6th. For injuries committed by them to persons or property : provided, that the wages of mariners, boatmen, and others employed in

the service of such steamers, vessels, and boats, shall have preference
over all other demands.

1. The transportation of property applies to towing other vessels or craft.— White
v. Mary Ann, 6 Cal., 462. ~

318. Actions for demands arising upon any of the grounds specified in the preceding section, may'be brought directly against such
steamers, vessels, or boats.

319. The complaint shall designate the steamer, vessel or boat,

by name, and shall be verified by the oath of the plaintifff, or some one
on his behalf. '

320. The summons attached to a certified copy of the complaint,
may be served on the master, mate, or any person having charge of
the steamer, vessel, or boat, against which the action is brought.

321. The plaintifff, at the time of issuing the summons, or at any
time afterwards, may have the steamer, vessel or boat, against which
the action is brought, with its tackle, apparel, and furniture, attached,

as security for the satisfaction of any judgment that may be recovered
therein.

322. The clerk of the court shall issue a writ of attachment, on

the application of the plaintifff, upon receiving a written undertaking
on behalf of the plaintifff, executed by two or more sufficient sureties,

to the elfectkthat if judgment be rendered in favor of the steamer,
vessel or boat, as the case may be, he will pay all costs and damages
that may be awarded against him, and all damages which may be sustained by such steamer, vessel or boat, from the attachment, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which shall  no case
_be less than fnjveghundred dollars when the attachment is issued against
a steamer or vessel, 91 less than two hundred dollars when issued
against a boat. The undertaking shall be accompanied by an affidavit
of each of the sureties, that he is a resident and freeholder or householder of the county, and worth double the amount specified in the

undertaking, over and above all of his just debts and liabilities. The
clerk shall file the undertaking and affidavits.

 

323. The writ shall be directed to the sheriff of the county within
which the steamer, vessel, or boat lies, and direct him to attach such
steamer, vessel or boat, with its tackle, apparel and furniture, and
keep the same in his custody until discharged by due course of law;
unless the owner, master, agent, or consignee thereof, give him security by the undertaking of at least two sufficient sureties, in an amount
suiiicient to satisfy the demand in suit, which shall be specified in the
writ, besides costs ; in which case to take such undertaking.

_ 1. If the attachment was void, no proceeding can be had on the release bond.—McQueen v. “ Russell,” 1 Cal., 165.

324. The sheriff to whom the writ is directed and delivered shall
execute the same without delay, and shall, unless the undertaking

mentioned in the last section be given, attach and keep in his custody
the steamer, vessel or boat named therein, with its tackle, apparel and
furniture, until discharged by due course of law; but the sheriff shall
not be authorized by any such writ to interfere with the discharge of
any merchandise on board of such steamer, vessel or boat, nor with
the removal of any trunks or other property of passengers, or of the

captain, mate, seamen, steward, cook, or other persons employed on
board.

325. The owner, master. agent, or consignee of the steamer, vessel
or boat, against which the action" is brought, may appear and answer,
or plead to the action ; and may except to the sufliciency of the sureties on the undertaking filed on_ the behalf of the plaintifff, and may

«require sureties to justify, as in aictions against individuals upon bail on

arrest.

326. All proceedings in actions under the provisions of this chapter, shall be conducted in the same manner as in actions against individuals, except as otherwise herein provided; and in all proceedings
subsequent to the complaint, the steamer, vessel or boat, may be designated as defendant.

327. After the appearance to the action, of the owner, master,
agent, or consignee, the attachment may, on motion, be discharged,

in the same manner, and on like terms and conditions, as attyhments

in other cases, subject to the provision of section three hun red and
twenty-nine.

328. If the attachment be not discharged, and a judgment be recovered in the action in favor of the plaintifff, and an execution be
issued thereon, the sheriff shall sell at public auction, after publication
of notice of such sale for ten days, the steamer, vessel or boat, with its
tackle, apparel and furniture, or such interest therein as may be necessary, and shall apply the proceeds of sale as follows :

1st. When the action is brought for demands other than the wages
of mariners, boatmen, and others employed in the service of the
steamer, vessel or boat sold, to the payment of the amount of such
wages, as sp%cified in the execution ;

2d. To the payment of the judgment and costs, including his fees ;
and,

3d. He shall pay any balance remaining, to the owner, master,
agent, or consignee, who may have appeared in the action ; or if there
be no appearance, then into court, subject to the claim of any party or

parties legally entitled thereto.

329. Any mariner, boatman, or other person employed in the service of the steamer, vessel, or boat attached, who may wish to assert
his claim for wages against the same, the attachments being issued for
other demands than such wages, shall file an affidavit of his claim, setting forth the amount and the particular service rendered, with the
clerk of the court; and thereafter no attachment shall be discharged
upon filing an undertaking, unless the amount of such claim, or the
amount determined as provided in the next section, be covered thereby
in addition to the other requirements ; and any execution issued
against such steamer, vessel, or boat, upon judgment recovered thereafter, shall direct the application of the proceeds of any sale : first, to
the payment of the amount of such claims filed, or the amount determined, as provided in the next section, which the clerk shall insert in
the writ; and second, to the payment of the judgment and costs, and
sheriff ’s fees ; and shall direct the payment of any balance to the
owner, master, agent, or consignee, who may have appeared in the
action ; but if no appearance by them be made therein, it shall direct
a deposit of the balance in court.

330. If the claim of the mariner, boatman, or other person, filed _

with the clerk of the court, as provided in the last section, be not contested within five days after notice of the filing thereof, by the owner,
master, agent, or consignee of the steamer, vessel, or boat against
which the claim is filed, it shall be deemed admitted ; but if contested,
the clerk shall endorse upon the affidavit thereof a statement that it is
contested, and the grounds of the contest, and shall immediately thereafter order the matter to a single referee for his determination, or he
may hear the proofs and determine the matter himself. The judgment ofjhe , clerk,,o,r referee, may be reviewed by the county, judge

either in term or vacation, immediately after the same _is given, and
the judgment of the county judge shall be final. On the review, the

 

county judge may use the minutes of the proofs taken by the clerk, or
referee, or may take the proofs anew. .

331. The notice of sale published by the sheriff, shall contain 9.
statement of the measurement and tonnage of the steamer, vessel, or
boat, and a general description of her condition.

332.’ From orders and judgments under this chapter, an appeal
may be taken by the owner, master, agent or consignee, on the same
terms and conditions as appeals in actions against individuals.

TITLE IX.

OF APPEALS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

CHAPTER I.

APPEALS IN GENERAL. (a)

333. [1854.] A judgment or order in a civil action, except when

expressly made final by this act, may be reviewed as prescribed by
this title, and not otherwise.

continuing.—Ford v. David, 3 Abbott, 385 ; 13 How. Pr., 193 ; Phipps v. Van Cott, 4
Abbott, 90. ‘

33-}. An order made out of court, without notice to the adverse
party, may be vacated or modified without notice, by the judge who
made it; or may be vacated or modified on notice, in the manner in
which other motions are made.

Sec Sec. 25, p. 15.

1. A court may modify an injunction on a motion ex parte, and the remedy is by
appeal from the modified order.—Fremont v. Merced Mining Co., 8 Cal., Jan. T.

335. Any party aggrieved may appeal in the cases prescribed in
this title. The party appealing shall be known as the appellant, and

the adverse party as the respondent.

F1. The acceptance of costs on a motion is not waiving the right to an appea1.—Tysen vi Wells, 1 Cal., 378. ‘

2. An appeal cannot be prosecuted by a stranger to the record.—Montgomerg v. Leavenworth, 2 Cal., 57.

3. A party intervening, though not a party of record, may appeal from any decision
affecting his rights.—Adams v. Woods, j’lé,£al., Oct. T. 7/7

336. [1854.] An appeal may be taken: in. wet’ Lra »i» /.+:

1st. From a final judgment in an action, or special proceeding, commenced in the court in which the judgment is rendered, within one
year after the rendition of the judgment;

2d. From a judgment rendered on an appeal from an inferior court,
within ninety days after the rendition of the judgment ;

3d. From an order granting or refusing a new trial ; from an order
refusing to change the place of trial of an action or proceeding, after a
motion is made therefore, in the cases provided by law, or on the ground
that the judge is disqualified from hearing or trying the same; from
an order granting or dissolving an injunction; and from any special
order made after the final judgment, within sixty days after the order
is made and entered in the minutes of the court ;

This section shall not extend to appeals to the district courts from
orders or judgments of the probate courts, but shall extend to judgments rendered in the district courts upon such appeals.

1. This last clause is unconstitutional. See chapter III, p. 182.

2. What is a final, and what is an 2'nterlocuto1;z/ order, considered.—Lorz'ng v. Illsley,
1 Cal., 24.

337. The appeal shall be made by filing with the clerk of the court,
with whom the judgment or order appealed from is entered, a notice,
stating the appeal from the same, or some specific part thereof, and
serving a copy of the notice upon the adverse party or his attorney.

1. In appeals by an incorporated city or town, or a county, the notice may be served
by some head of the.department.—Statutes of 1856, note (a), p. 17 7.

2. Where the object of a notice of appeal is accomplished, it is immaterial whether
the notice be given or not.—McLeran v Slzartzer, 5 Cal., 70.

338. When the party who has the right to appeal wishes a. statement
of the case to be annexed to the record of the judgment or order, he

shall, vgithin twenty days after the entry of such judgment or order,
prepare such statement, which shall contain the grounds upon which he

intends to rely on the appeal, and so much of the evidence as may be
necessary to explain the grounds, and .no more, and shall serve a copy
thereof upon the adverse party. The respondent may, within five days
thereof, prepare amendments to the statement, and serve a. copy on the

appellant. If such amendments are admitted, the statement shall becorrected accordingly‘; and if not admitted, the statement and amend-'
ments shall be presented to the judge who tried or heard the case, upon
notice of two days to the respondent, and a true statement shall thereupon be settled by such judge. ’

339. [1855.] If the party shall omit to make a statement within
the time above limited, he shall be deemed to have waived his right
thereto; and when a statement is made, and the parties shall omit,
within the several times above limited, the one party to propose amendments, the other to notify an appearance before the judge, they shall
respectively be deemed, the former to have agreed to the statement
as proposed, and the latter to have agreed to the amendments as proposed, and no settlement of the statement, or certificate thereto by the
judge, shall be required.

1. If the appellant allow the time to expire, after taking the appeal, without framing a case, he waives his right to have a case stated; and a subsequent order of the

court, made without notice to the respondent, allowing further time to make up the
statement, is a nullity.—Leech v. West, 2 Cal., ,95.

2. It leaves the party to argue the case on the judgment record alone.—Robz'nson v.
Hudson Riqer R. R. Co., 3 Abbott, 115 ; .Mc Comber v. Chamberlain, 7 Cal., Oct. T.

340. The several periods of time above limited may be enlarged,

upon good cause shown, by the judge before whom the cause wastried.

 

341. The statement, when settled by the judge, shall be signed by
him, with his certificate that the same has been allowed and is correct;

when the statement is agreed upon by the parties, they or their attorneys shall sign the same with their certificate that it has been agreed
upon by them, and is correct. In either case, when settled or agreed
upon, it shall be filed with the clerk.

342. The clerk shall annex the statement, if the appeal be from a
final judgment, to the judgment roll; if the appeal be from an order,
to such order, or to a copy thereof.

343. [1854.] Theiprovisions of the last five preceding sections
shall not apply to appeals taken from an order made upon affidavit filed; but such affidavits shall be annexed to the order in the place of

the statement mentioned in those sections.

344. Upon an appeal from a judgment the court may review any
intermediate order involving the merits, and necessarily affecting the

judgment.

See notes to Section 333.

1. An appeal lies from an order on demurrer, where asubstantial right is affected.Burgoyne v. Perry, 3 Cal., 50.

2. An order denying a motion to stay the trial of a cause until the decisionof an0
other cause, is not an order involving the merits, and is not reversable on the appeal
from the final judgment.-James v. Chalmers, 2 Seld., 209.

3. An objection can be urged on appeal against an order refusing to discharge an
attachment, though final judgment was had against defendants.—Taa_(7'e v. Rosenthall, 7
Cal., April T.

345. Upon an appeal from a judgment or order, the appellate court
may reverse, afiirm, or modify the judgment or order appealed from,
in the respect mentioned in the notice of appeal, and as to any or all
of the parties; and may set aside or confirm, or modify any or all of
the proceedings subsequent to or dependent upon such judgment or
order, and may, if necessary or proper, order a new _trial. When the
judgment or order is reversed or modified, the appellate court may
make complete restitution of all property and rights lost by the erroneous judgment or order; and when it appears to the appellate court
that the appeal was made for delay, it may add to the costs such damages as may be just.

1. When it is proper this court will render such judgment as the court below should
have rendered.—Bidleman v. Kewen, 2 Cal., 248.

CHAPTER II.

APPEALS TO THE SUPREME COURT FROM THE DISTRICT COURTS.

See rules of supreme court.

347. [1854.] An appeal may be taken to the supreme court from
the district courts in the following cases:

1st. From a final judgment rendered in an action or special proceeding commenced in those courts, or brought into those courts from another court ;

2d. From an order granting or refusing a new trial; from an order
refusing to change the place of trial of an action or proceeding after a
motion is made therefore, in the cases provided by law, or on the ground
that a judge is disqualified from hearing or trying the same ; from an
order granting or dissolving an injunction ; and from» any special order
made after final judgment.

\

See Chapter I, p. 170, and references there made.

1. An appeal may be taken from a judgment of the district court, without moving
for a new trial in that court.—Inm's v. Steamer Senator, 1 Cal., 459; Brown v. T olles, 7
Cal., April T.

2. Though the plaintifff recover less than two hundred dollars, the defendant is entitled to an appeal, if the costs added to the judgment exceed two hundred dollars.Gordon v. Ross, 2 Cal., 156.

3. Ten per cent. damages awarded by the supreme court, when the appeal was for
delay.—Russell v. W'z'lliams, 2 Cal., 158.

4. The supreme court, in chancery cases, has full power and jurisdiction on appeal
for the purpose of equity, to correct the errors of the court below, in whatever shape, or
by whatever party the appeal is taken up.—G'ra_z/son v. Guild, 4 Cal., 122.

5. An appeal lies from an order of injunction granted by a county judge.—C'randall
v.'Woods, 6 Cal., 449.

6. Objections to misjoinder of parties cannot be taken on appeal.—Tz'ssot v. Tlzroelcmorton, 6 Cal., 471 ; T ibbitts v. Percy, 24 Barb., 39.

7. An appeal will not lie where the amount in controversy is less than two hundred
dol1ars.—Ford v. Smith, 7 Cal., Jan. T.

348. To render an appeal effectual for any purpose, in any case, a
written undertaking shall be executed on the part of the appellant, (a)

,-,_

11. An appeal is perfected when the proper undertaking, with affidavit of sureties,
has been executed, and notice of the appeal has been served on the adverse party, and
on the clerk with whom the judgment or order was entered.—Thompson v. Blanchard,

4 How. Pr., 210.

349. If the appeal be from a judgment or order directing the payment of money, it shall not stay the execution of the judgment or order
unless a Written undertaking be executed, on the part of the appellant,
by two or more sureties, stating their places of residence and occupation, to the eifect that they are bound in double the amount named in
the judgment or order, that if the judgment or order appealed from, or
any part thereof, be ailirmed, the appellant shall pay the amount directed to be paid by the judgment or order, or the part of such amount
as to which the judgment or order shall be ailirmed, if affirmed only in
part, and all damages and costs which shall be awarded against the
appellant upon the appeal.

1. A stay of proceedings, from its nature, only operates upon orders or judgments
commanding some act to be done ; it does not reach a case of injunction.—ZlIerced Mining Cb. v. Fremont, 7 Cal., Jan. T.

2. A judgment directing the payment of money out of a fund in court, is not a
judgment directing the payment of money, within this section.—C'urtis v. Leavitt, 1 Abbott, 274; IO How. Pr., 481.

350. If the judgment or order appealed from direct the assignment
or delivery of documents, or personal property, the execution of the
judgment or order shall not he stayed by appeal, unless the things required to be assigned or delivered be placed in the custody of such
oliicer or receiver as the court may appoint ; or unless an undertaking
be entered into, on the part of the appellant, with at least two sureties,
and in such amount as the court or the judge thereof, or county judge,
may direct, to the effect that the appellant will obey the order of the
appellate court upon the appeal.

351. If the judgment or order appealed from direct the execution
of a conveyance or other instrument, the execution of the judgment or
order shall not be stayed by the appeal, until the instrument is executed and deposited with the clerk, with whom the judgment or order is
entered, to abide the judgment of the appellate court.

352. If the judgment or order appealed from direct the sale, or
delivery of possession of real property, the execution of the same shall

not be stayed, unless a written undertaking be executed on the part
of the appellant, with two or more sureties, to the effect that during
the possession of such property by the appellant, he will not commit,
or suffer to be committed, any waste thereon, and that if the judgment
be affirmed, he will pay the value of the use and occupation of the
property, from the time of the appeal until the delivery of ‘possession
thereof, pursuant to the judgment or order, not exceeding a sum to be
fixed by the judge of the court by which the judgment was rendered
or order made, and which shall be specified in the undertaking. When
the judgment is for the sale of mortgaged premises, and the payment
of a deficiency arising upon the sale, the undertaking shall also provide for the payment of such deficiency.

353. Whenever an appeal is perfected, as provided by the preceding sections in this chapter, it shall stay all further proceedings in
the court below, upon the judgment or order appealed from, or upon the
matter embraced therein; but the court below may proceed upon any
other matter included in the action, and not affected by the judgment
or order appealed from. And the court below may, in its discre-'
tion, dispense with, or limit the security required by said sections,
when the appellant is an executor, administrator, trustee, or other
person acting in another’s right.

354. The undertaking prescribed by sections three hundred and
forty-eight, three hundred and forty-nine, three hundred and fifty, and
three hundred and fifty-two, may be in one instrument, or several, at
the option of the appellant.

355. [1854.] An undertaking upon an appeal shall be of no effect unless it be accompanied by the affidavit of the sureties, that they
are each worth the amount specified therein over and above all their
just debts and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution, except where the judgment exceeds three thousand dollars, and
the undertaking on appeal is executed by more than two sureties, they
may state on their affidavit that they are severally worth amounts less
than that expressed in the undertaking, if the whole amount be equivalent to that of two sufficient sureties. The adverse party may, however, except to the sufliciency of the sureties within five days after
the filing of the undertaking, and unless they or other sureties justify
before ajudge of the court below, or a county judge, or the county

J’ ""7 **’WW’**_V" V_‘ ———'———' -'clerk, within five days thereafter, upon notice to the adverse party, to
the amounts stated in their affidavits, the appeal shall be regarded as
if no such undertaking had been given, and in all cases where an undertaking is required on appeal by the provisions of this chapter, a
deposit in the court below of the amount of the judgment appealed
from, and - three hundred dollars in addition, shall be equivalent to
filing the undertaking, and in all cases the undertaking or deposit may
be waived by the written consent of the respondent.

1. On an application for justification of sureties on an appeal, the merits of the appeal will not be considered.—Bradley v. Hall, 1 Cal., 199.

2. That the undertaking be approved, is an important feature in perfecting an appeal.— Wade v. Am. Col. Soc., 4 Sme. & M., 670.

3. The exception should be to “ sureties,” and not to the undertaking.—Young v.
Colby, 2 Code R., 68.

4. The sureties need only justify to double the amount of the judgment.—Rz'ch v.
Beekman, 2 Code R., 63.

356. In cases not provided for in sections three hundred and forty-nine, three hundred and fifty, three hundred and fifty-one, and
three hundred and fifty-two, the perfecting of an appeal, by giving the
undertaking, and the justification of the sureties thereon, if required,
or making the deposit mentioned in section three hundred and fortyeight, shall stay proceedings in the court below upon the judgment or
order appealed from ; except that where it directs the sale of perishable property, the court below may order the property to be sold, and
the proceeds thereof to be deposited, to abide the judgment of the appellate court.

357. [1854.] Appeals in the supreme court may be brought to
a hearing by either party, upon a notice of three days to the opposite
party. Before the argument each party shall furnish to the other,
and each of the justices, a copy of his points and authorities, or
either party may file one copy thereof with the clerk, who shall cause
the requisite copies to be made.

1. When appellant notices case for argument, respondent may atiirm the judgment,
ex parte, although he gave no notice.— Constant v. Ward, 1 Cal., 333.

358. When judgment is rendered upon the appeal, it shall be certified by the clerk of the supreme court to the clerk with whom the
judgment roll is filed, or the order appealed from is entered. In cases

of appeal from the judgment, the clerk with Whom the roll is filed
shall attach the certificate to the judgment roll, and enter a minute of
the judgment of the supreme court on the docket against the original
entry. In cases of an appeal from the order, the clerk shall enter at
length in the records of the court the certificate received, and minute

against the entry of the order appealed from, a reference to the certificate, with a brief statement that such order has been ailirmed, reversed, or modified, as the case may be, by the supreme court, on

appeal.
See Secs. 657 and 665.

1. Where a remittitur is sent down, the clerk of the district court may issue execution for costs.—Mayor of the city qflllarysville v. Buchanan, 3 Cal., 212.

2. After a cause has been regularly remitted to the court below, this court has no jurisdiction to grant relief. The only remedy is a new appeal.—Frazer v. Western, 3 How.
Pr., 235 ; Dresser v. Brooks, 4 How. Pr., 207.

CHAPTER III.

APPEALS TO THE DISTRICT [SUPREME] comrrs FROM THE
COUNTY COURTS.

1. The appellate jurisdiction of district courts held unconstitutiona1.—PeopIe v. Peralta, 3 Cal., 379 ; Caulfield v. Hudson, 3 Cal., 389; Hernandes v. Simon, 3 Cal., 464;
Reed v. 3IcCormic/c, 4 Cal., 342; Townsend v. Brooks, 5 Cal., 52.

359. [1854.] An appeal may be taken to the supreme court
from a judgment of the county court, in all cases where the amount
in dispute exceeds two hundred dollars, or where the legality of any
tax, toll or impost, or municipal line, is in question.

1. Though the plaintifff recover less than two hundred dollars, the defendant is entitled to an appeal, if the costs added to the judgment exceed two hundred dollars.—Gordon v. Ross, 2 Cal., 156.

360. [1854.] Security shall be given upon such appeal in the
same manner and to the same extent as upon an appeal to the supreme court from the district court, and like justification on the part

of the sureties may be required.

361. [185-1.] Appeals from the county courts shall be brought
to a hearing in the same manner, and upon like notice, as appeals from

the district court.

362. [1854.] The appellant shall furnish the papers for the supreme court, in the same manner as upon appeals from the district
court.

CHAPTER‘ IV.

APPEALS TO THE DISTRICT counrs [SUPREME COURT] FROM THE 3
PROBATE COURTS.

1. The appellate jurisdiction of the district court declared unconstitutional. See
Chapter III, p. 182.

2. Issues made in the probate courts are certified to, and are to be tried in the district courts, from which appeals lie to the supreme court. Seestatute cited in note a.

363. An appeal (a) may be taken from a probate court to the
district court of the district in which the probate court is held, in

the following cases :

1st. From an order or decree admitting a will to probate, or refusing the same ; '
. 2d. From an order setting apart property, or making an allowance
for the widow or children ; .

3d. From an order granting letters testamentary or of administration, or appointing a guardian of an infant, or of an insane person, or
of a person incompetent to manage his property, or refusing to grant
such letters, or to make such appointment, or making such letters or
appointment ;

-lth. From an order directing the sale or conveyance of real property;

5th. From an order or decree by which a debt, claim, legacy, or
distributive share is allowed, or payment thereof directed; or by which
such allowance or direction is refused ;

6th. From an order made on the settlement of an executor, administrator or guardian.

364. The appeal shall be taken within thirty days after the order
or decree appealed from is entered with the clerk. 365. [1854.] Appeals from the probate court shall be brought to
a hearing at the earliest period practicable. For a failure to prosecute an appeal, or unnecessary delay in bringing it to a hearing, the
district court may order the appeal dismissed.

CHAPTER V.

APPEALS TO. THE COUNTY counrs FROM JUSTICES’ AND ‘
ascoannns’ COURTS.

366. [1854.] Judgments in all civil cases rendered by justices’,
recorders’ and mayors’ courts, may be reviewed by the county court;
when the appeal is taken on questions of law alone, it shall be heard on
a statement of the case prepared as prescribed in Title XVI of this Act.
When the appeal is taken on questions of fact, or on questions of both
law and fact, the action shall be tried anew in the county court, and
either party may, on such trial, demand a jury.

1. Where both parties appear, no notice of appeal is necessary to be shown.—llIcLeran v. Shartzer, 5 Cal., 70.

2. The county court where an appeal bond is defective, should give leave to file a
good bond.—Billings v. Roadhouse, 5 Cal., 71.

3. The trial on appeal in county courts must be de novo, and the judgment of the
justice’s court cannot be reversed for error.—Co_z/le v. Baldwin, 5 Cal., 75.

4. A sufficient excuse for failing to produce an appeal bond will be heard by the
court, and if admitted, a bond may be allowed to be filed.—Howard v. Harman, 5 Cal., 78.

5. In an appeal notice, the words “ whole judgment ” are sufficiently definite.Price v. Van Caneghan, 5 Cal., 123.

6. The county court has no jurisdiction to enforce a mechanic’s lien, where the
amount in controversy exceeds two hundred dollars.-—BrocIc v. Bruce, 5 Cal., 279.

7. Where the judgment of the court below exceeds in amount the jurisdiction, the
county court on appeal, should dismiss the whole case.—Ford v. Smith, 5 Cal., 331.

8. The rhawer of the county court to treble damages by way of penalty, in actions
of forcible entry, results by implication from a power to try de novo.—0’ Callaghan v.
Booth, 6 Cal., 63.

9. If the appeal be on points of law alone, and a new trial be granted, such new
trial shall be had in the county court after a reasonable time.-—People v. Freelon, 7 Cal.,

Oct. T.

367. [1854.] Upon an appeal heard upon a statement of the‘

case, the county court may review all orders affecting the judgment
appealed from, and may set aside, or confirm, or modify any or all of
the proceedings subsequent to, or dependent upon, said judgment;
and may, if necessary or proper, order a new trial. When the action
is tried anew, on appeal, the trial shall be conducted in all respects, as
trials in the district court. The provisions of this act, as to changing
the place of trial, and all the provisions as to trials in the district court,
M

shall be applicable to trials on appeal in the county court. For a failure to prosecute an appeal, or unnecessary delay in bringing it to a
hearing, the county court, after notice, may order the appeal to be dismissed. Judgments rendered in the county court on appeal, shall have
the same force and effect, and be enforced in the same manner, as judgments in actions commenced in the district court.
See Secs. 624-629, 640.

TITLE X.

MISCELLANEOUS PROCEEDINGS.
CHAPTER I.

PROCEEDINGS AGAINST JOINT DEBTORS.

368. When a judgment is recovered against one or more of several persons, jointly indebted upon an obligation, by proceeding, as
provided in section thirty-two, those who were not originally served
with the summons, and did not appear in the action, may be summoned
to show cause why they should not be bound by the judgment, in the
same manner as though they had been originally served with the

81113111110118.

369. The summons as provided in the last section, shall describe
the judgment, and require the person summoned to show cause why
he should not be bound by it, and shall be served in the same manner,
and returnable within the same time, as the original summons. It
shall not be necessary to file a. new complaint.

370. The summons shall be accompanied by an affidavit of the
plaintifff, his agent, representative, or attorney, that the judgment, or
some part thereof, remains unsatisfied, and shall specify the amount
due thereon.

371. Upon such summons, the defendant may answer within the
time specified therein, denying the judgment, or setting up any defense
which may have arisen subsequently ; or he may deny his liability on
the obligation upon which the judgment was recovered, except a discharge from suchliability by the statute of limitation. I I

372. If the defendant in his answer deny the judgment, or set up
any defense which may have arisen subsequently, the summons, with
the affidavit annexed, and the answer, shall constitute the written allegations in the case; if he deny his liability on the obligation upon
which the judgment was recovered, a copy of the original complaint
and judgment, the summons with the affidavit annexed, and the answer, shall constitute such written allegations.

373. The issues formed may be tried as in other cases; but when
the defendant denies, in his answer, any liability on the obligation upon
which the judgment was rendered, if a. verdict be found against him,
it shall be for the amount remaining unsatisfied on such original judgment, with interest thereon.

CHAPTER II.

\

CONFESSION OF JUDGMENT WITHOUT ACTION.

374. A judgment by confession may be entered without [action,
either for money due, or to become due, or to secure any person

against contingent liability on behalf of the defendant, or both, in the
manner prescribed by this chapter.

was for goods sold and delivered, or on a note given for goods sold and delivered, is
insnliicient.—Moody v. Townsend, 3 Abbott, 375 ; Von Beck v. S human, 13 How. Pr., 472.

376. The statement shall be filed with the clerk of the county in
which the judgment is to be entered, who shall endorse upon it, and
enter in the judgment book a judgment of such court, for the amount
confessed, with ten dollars costs. The statement and affidavit, with
the judgment endorsed, shall thereupon become the judgment roll.

'1. The court will not allow a party to suffer by the omission or mistake of a clerk,

attorney or oiiicer of the court, where a substantial right is involved, on a confession of
judgment.—Neele v. Berryhill, 4 How. Pr., 16. ‘

CHAPTER III.

SUBMITTING A CONTROVERSY WITHOUT ACTION. '

377. Parties to a question in difference, which might be the subject of a civil action, inay, without action, agree upon a case containing the facts upon which the controversy depends, and present a submission of the same to any court which would have jurisdiction, if an
action had been brought. But it must appear, by affidavit, that the
controversy is real, and the proceedings in good faith, to determine
the rights of the parties. The court shall thereupon hear and determine the case, and render judgment thereon, as if an action were depending.

1. It is a general rule that the court will not entertain a fictitious case, to test a

right to a particular thing.—Port Gibson Bank v. Dickson, 4 Sme. & M., 689 ; Brewington v. Lowe, 1 Ind., (Carter,) 21.

378. Judgment shall be entered in the judgment book as in other
cases, but without costs for any proceeding prior to the trial. The
case, the submission, and a copy of the judgment, shall constitute the
judgment roll.

379. The judgment may be enforced in the same manner as if it
had been rendered in an action, and shall be in the same manner subject to appeal. ‘

CHAPTER IV.

OF ARBITRATIONS.

380. Persons capable of contracting may submit to arbitration any
controversy which might be the subject of a civil action between
them, except a question of title to real property in fee or for life.
This qualification shall not include questions relating merely to the
partition or boundaries of feal property.

1. A reference may be an arbitration, and the report thereon an award.—Blunt v.
Whitney, 3 Saud., 4.

381. The submission to arbitration shall be in writing, and may be
to one or more persons. 0

See Sec. 529.

1. Submission to arbitration discontinues a suit. A consent to submit to arbitration does not authorize an entry of judgment. Gunter v. Sanchez, 1 Cal., 45.

382. It may be stipulated in the submission, that it be entered as
an order of the county court, or of the district court, for which purpose it shall be filed with the clerk of the county where the parties,
or one of them, reside. The clerk shall, thereupon, enter in his register of actions a note of the submission, with the names of the parties,
the names of the arbitrators, the date of the submission, when filed, and
the time limited by the submission, if any, within which the award
shall be made. When so entered, the submission shall not be revoked
without the consent of both parties. The arbitrators may be compelled
by the court to make an award, and the award may be enforced by the
court, in the same manner as a judgment. If the submission be not
made an order of the court, it may be revoked at any time before the

award is made.

383. Arbitrators shall have power to appoint a time and place for
hearing, to adjourn from time to time, to administer oaths to witnesses,

to hear the allegations and evidence of the parties, and to make an
award thereon. ’

1. Arbitrators are not bound to decide according to law.-Muldrow v. Norris, 2 Cal.,
74; Peachy v. Ritchie, 4 Cal., 205.

384. All the arbitrators shall meet and act together during the
investigation; but when met, a majority may determine any question.
Before acting, they shall be sworn before an officer authorized to ad‘minister oaths, faithfully and fairly to hear and examine the allegations

and evidence of the parties, in relation to the matters in controversy,

and to make a just award, according to their understanding.
J ,z... .;‘_¢ Q .s’*.«. :7

385. The award shall be in writing, signed by the arbitrators, or a
majority of them, and delivered to the parties. When the submission
is made an order of the court, the award shall be filed with the clerk-,
and a note thereof made in his register. After the expiration of five
days from the filing of the award, upon the application of a; party, and
on filing an affidavit, showing that notice of filing the award has been
served on the adverse party or his attorney, at least four days prior
to such application, and that no order staying the entry of judgment
has been served, the award shall be entered by the clerk in the judgment book, and shall thereupon have the effect of a judgment.

386. The court, on motion, may vacate the award upon either of
the following grounds, and may order a new hearing before the same
arbitrators, or not, in its discretion:

1st. That it was procured by corruption or fraud ;

2d. That the arbitrators were guilty of misconduct, or committed
gross error in refusing, on cause shown, to postpone the hearing, or in
refusing to hear pertinent evidence, or otherwise acted improperly, in
a manner by which the rights of the party were prejudiced ;

3d. That the arbitrators exceeded their powers in making their
award ; or that they refused, or improperly omitted, to consider a part
of the matters submitted to them ; or that the award is indefmite, or
cannot be performed.

387. The court may, on motion, modify or correct the award where
it appears : ‘ t

1st. That there was a miscalculation in figures, upon which it was
made, or that there is a mistake in the description of some person or
property therein;

2d. When a part of the award is upon matters not submitted, which
part can be separated from other parts, and does not affect the decision
on the matters submitted;

3d. When the award, though imperfect in form, could have been
amended if it had been a verdict, or the imperfection disregarded.

1. Awards‘ must be set aside for fraud, mistake or accident. An award may be enforced for the good part, and set aside for the bad.—Muldrow v. Norris, 2 Cal., 74.

388. The decision upon the motion shall be subject to appeal in
the same manner as an order which is subject to appeal in a civil
action; but the judgment entered before a motion is made, shall not
be subject to appeal. '

1. A stipulation that neither party will appeal, is not binding.—Muldrow v. Norris,
2 Cal., 74.

389. If a submission to arbitration be revoked, and an action be
brought therefore, the amount to be recovered shall only be the costs

and damages sustained in preparing for and attending the arbitration.

CHAPTER V.

OFFER OF THE DEFENDANT TO COMPROMISE THE WHOLE OR AIPART

OF AN ACTION.
Su 3:-t 33(3390. The defendant may, at any time before the trial or judgment,
serve upon the plaintifff an offer to allow judgment to be taken against
him, for the sum or property, or to the effect therein specified. If the
plaintifff accept the offer, and give notice thereof within five days, he
may file the summons, complaint and offer, with an affidavit of notice
of acceptance, and the clerk shall thereupon enter judgment accordingly. If the notice of acceptance be not given, the offer shall be
deemed withdrawn, and shall not be given in evidence; and if the
plaintifff fail to obtain a more favorable judgment, he shall not recover
costs, but shall pay the defendant’s costs, from the time of the offer.

TITLE XI. .

or WITNESSES, AND or THE MANNER or OBTAINING EVIDENCE.
CHAPTER I. .

OF WITNESSES.

391. All persons, without exception, otherwise than as specified in
in this chapter, may be witnesses in any action or proceeding.

1. The court should decide upon the admissibility of a witness, and not refer the
question to the jur_v.—Tabor v. Staniels, 2 Cal., 240. =

2. A book-keeper, as a witness, has a right to refer to the books kept by him, to refresh his memory.—Treadwell v. Wells, 4 Cal., 260.

3. Where evidence offered to be given as a defense to the action is excluded by the
court on the ground that it is not warranted by the pleadings, the party should offer it

again in mitigation of damages, if he wishes to avail himself of it for that purpose.Travis v. Barger, 26 Barb., 615.

392. [1854.] N 0 person offered as a witness shall be excluded on
account of his opinions on matters of religious belief ; nor shall any
person be excluded on account of his interest in the event of the action
or proceedings, except in the following cases:

1st. When he is a party to the action or proceeding, or the action
or proceeding is prosecuted or defended for his immediate benefit.

2d. When his interest is a present, certain, and vested interest.

0

person whose interest is adverse, nor a party being a witness in the
cases mentioned in section four hundred and twenty-three.

1. A driver is not acompetent witness for his employer, in an action for negligently
driving against one, without previously being released by his emp1oyer.—F’inn v. Vallejo
Wharf 0a., 7 Cal., Jan. T.

2. One who has indemnified the sheriff for taking property by virtue of an execution, is not a competent witness for the sherid‘ in defense to a suit against him.—How[and v. W7illetts, 5 Selden, 170.

394. [1854.] The following persons shall not be witnesses :

1st. Those who are of unsound mind at the time of their production
for examination ; 9

2d. Children under ten years of age, who, in the opinion of the
court appear incapable of receiving just impressions of the facts respecting which they are examined, or of relating them truly;

3d. Indians, orpersons having one-half or more of indian blood, and
negroes, or persons having one-half or more of negro blood, in an action or proceeding to which a White person is a party ;

4th. Persons against whom judgment has been rendered upon a
conviction for a felony, unless pardoned by the Governor, or such judgment has been reversed on appeal.

1. 3d. Held to apply to Chinese.—People v. Hall, 4 Cal., 399.

395. A husband shall not be a witness for or against his Wife, nor
a wife a witness for or against her husband ; nor can either, during the
marriage, or afterwards, be, without the consent of the other, examined as to any communication made by one to the other during the
marriage’. But this exception shall not apply to an action or proceeding by one against the other.

396. An attorney or counselor, shall not, without the consent of
his client, be examined as a witness as [to] any communication made by
the client to him, or his advice given thereon, in the course of professional employment.

1. Landsberger v. Gorham, 5 Cal., 450.

397. A clergyman or priest shall not, without the consent of the
person making the confession, be examined as a witness as to any confession made to him in his professional character, in the course of discipline enjoined by the church to which he belongs.

398. A licensed physician or surgeon shall not, without the consent of his patient, be examined as a witness, as to any information
acquired in attending the patient, which was necessary to enable him
to prescribe or act for the patient.

399. A public oiiicer shall not be examined as a witness as to communications made tohim in official confidence, when the public interest
would suffer by the disclosure.

400. The judge himself or any juror, may be called as a witness
by either party ; but in such case it shall be in the discretion of the
court or judge to order the trial to be postponed or suspended, and to
take place before another judge or jury.

401. When a witness does not understand and speak the English
language, an interpreter shall be sworn to interpret for him.

CHAPTER II.

MANNER OF COMPELLING THE ATTENDANCE OF WITNESSES, AND THEIR
RIGHTS AND DUTIES.

402. [1855.] A subpoena may require, not only the attendance of
the person to whom it is directed at a particular time and place, to
testify as a witness, but may also require him to bring any books,
documents, or other things under his control, to be used as evidence.
N 0 person shall be required to attend as a witness before any court,
judge, justice, or any other officer out of the county in which he resides, unless the distance be less than thirty miles from his place of
residence to the place of trial.

403. The subpoena shall be issued as follows:

1st. To require attendance before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, it shall be issued in the name and under the seal of the court
before which the attendance is required, or in ‘which the issue is
pending;

2d. To require attendance out of court before a judge, justice, or
other officer authorized to administer oaths, or take testimony in any

matter, under the laws of this state ; it shall be issued by the judge,
justice, or any other officer before whom the attendance is required ;
3d. To require attendance before a commissioner appointed to take
testimony by a court of any other state or county, it may be issued by
any judge or justice of the peace, in places within their respective

jurisdictions.

404. The service of a subpoena shall be made by/showing the o_riginal, and dehiering a copy, or a ticket containing its substance, to the
witness personally, giving or offering to him at the same time, if demanded by him, the fees to which he is entitled for travel to and from
the place designated, and one day’s attendance there. Such service

may be made by any person.

405. If a witness be concealed in a building or vessel so as to prevent the service of a subpoena upon him, any court or judge, or any
officer issuing the subpoena, may, upon proof by affidavit of the concealment and of the materiality of the witness, make an order that the
sheriff of the county serve the subpoena ; and the sheriff shall serve it

“ accordingly, and for that purpose may break into the building or vessel Where the witness is concealed.

406. A person present in court, or before a judicial oilicer, may
be required to testify, in the same manner as if he were in attendance
upon a subpoena issued by such court or officer.

407. It shall be the duty of a witness, duly served with a subpoena, to attend at the time appointed, with any papers under his control required by the subpoena, to answer all pertinent and legal questions; and, unless sooner discharged, to remain till the testimony is

closed.

1. A witness cannot be cross-examined except in reference to matters concerning
which he has been examined in chief.—Tlzornburgh v. Hand, 7 Cal., Jan. T.

2. The admission of leading questions, in the examination of a witness, is always
in the discretion of the court, subject however to be reviewed, and will not be regarded
as error unless the discretion has been abused.—Budlong v. Van Nostrand, 24 Barb., 25.

408. A witness shall answer questions legal and pertinent to the
matter in issue, though his answer may establish a claim against himself; but he need not give an answer which shall have a tendency to
subject him to punishment for a felony ; nor need he give an answer
which shall have a direct tendency to degrade his character, unless it
be to the very fact in issue, or to a fact from which the fact in issue
would be presumed. But a witness shall answer as to the fact of his
previous conviction for felony.

1. The opinions of a person, not an expert, are not evidence.—Re_v/nolds v. Jourdan,
6 Cal., 108.

2. Hearsay testimony to a fact admitted by both parties, may be given.— lVillz'ams
v. Chadboume, 6 Cal., 559.

409. Disobedience to a subpoena, or a refusal to be sworn, or to
answer as a witness, or to subscribe an aliidavit or deposition when
required, may be punished as a contempt by the court or oliicer issuing
the subpoena, or requiring the witness to be sworn ; and if the witness

be a party, his complaint may be dismissed or his answer stricken out.
Ala %. ll» c

410. A witness disobeying a subpoena shall also forfeit to the party
aggrieved the sum of one hundred dollars, and all damages which he
may sustain by the failure of the witness to attend ; which forfeiture
and damages may be recovered in a civil action.

411. In case of failure of a witness to attend, the court or oiiicer
issuing the subpoena, upon proof of the service thereof, and of the failure of the witness, may issue a warrant to the. sheriff of the county to
arrest the witness and bring him before the court or officer where his
attendance was required.

412. If the witness be a prisoner, confined in a jail or prison within this state for any other cause than a sentence for felony, an order
for his examination in the prison upon deposition, or for his temporary
removal and production before a court or officer for the purpose of being orally examined, may be made as follows :

lst. By the court itself, in which the action or special proceeding
is pending ;

2d. By a judge of the supreme court, district court, or county judge
of the county where the action or proceeding is pending, if before a
judge or other person out of court.

413. Such order can only be made upon affidavit, showing the naJ

ture of the action or proceeding, the testimony expected from the witness, and its materiality.

414. If the witness be imprisoned in the county where the action
or -proceeding is pending, and for a cause other than a sentence for felony, his production may be required. In all other cases, his examination, when allowed, shall be taken upon deposition.

415. Every person who has been in good faith, served with a.
subpoena to attend as a witness before a court, judge, commissioner,
referee, or other person, in a case where the disobedience of the witness may be punished as a contempt, shall be exonerated from arrest,
in a civil action, while going to the place of attendance, necessarily
remaining there, and returning therefrom.

1. This section does not exempt him from obeying any ordinary process of a court,

e. g., to attend and answer concerning his property, under a supplementary writ.—Page
v. Randall, 6 Cal., 32.

416. The arrest of a witness contrary to the last section, shall be
void; but an officer shall not be liable to the party for making the
arrest in ignorance of the facts creating the exoneration, but shall be
liable for any subsequent detention of the party, if such party claim
the exemption and make an affidavit, stating:

1st. That he has been served with a subpoena to attend as a witness
before a court, officer, or other person; specifying the same, the place
of attendance, and the action or proceeding in which the subpoena was
issued; and,

2d. That he has not been thus served by his own procurement, with
the intention of avoiding an arrest; _

3d. That he is at the time going to the place of attendance, or returning therefrom, or remaining there in obedience to the subpoena.
The alhdavit may be taken by the oilicer, and shall exonerate him
from liability for discharging the witness when arrested.

CHAPTER III.

OF THE EXAMINATION OF PARTIES TO AN ACTION OR PROCEEDING,
AND OF PERSONS FOR WHOSE IMMEDIATE BENEFIT SUCH
ACTION OR PROCEEDING IS .PROSECUTED
OR DEFENDED.

417. No action to obtain a discovery under oath, in aid of the prosecution or defense of another action or proceeding, shall be allowed,
nor shall any examination of a party be had on behalf of the adverse
party, except in the manner prescribed by this chapter.

1. This section does not apply to prevent an examination of a debtor in a proceeding supplementary to an execution.—Dunham v. Nicholson, 2 Sand., 636; Quick v.
Keeler, ib., 231.

418. A party to an action or proceeding may be examined as a
witness, at the instance of the adverse party, or of any one of several
adverse parties; and for that purpose may be compelled, in the same
manner, and subject to the same rules of examination as any other
witness, to testify at the trial, and he may be examined on a commis81011.

‘.4...’ »..p

419. The examination of a party thus taken, may be rebutted by
adverse testimony.

420. If a party refuse to attend and testify at the trial, or to give
his deposition before trial, or upon a commission when required, his
complaint, answer or reply, may be stricken out, and judgment be taken against him; and he may be also, in the discretion of the court,
proceeded against as in other cases for a contempt. .,Lu, 9,5’. <. .2, _ I

J

421. A party examined by an adverse party, as in this chapter
provided, may be examined on his own behalf in respect to any matter
pertinent to the issue. But if he testify to any new matter not responsive to the inquiries put to him by the adverse party, or necessary to
explain or qualify his answer thereto; or discharge, when his answer
would charge himself, such adverse party may offer himself as a witness on his own behalf, in respect to such new matter, and shall be so
received.

or defended, though not a party to the action, may be examined as a
witness, in the same manner, and subject to the same rules of examination as if he were named as a party.

423. [1854.] Parties may be witnesses on their own behalf when
the action is brought for the settlement of, or in relation to, the business and accounts of a copartnership then existing or which had previously existed between them, to prove vouchers or items of account
under one hundred dollars. ‘W’

CHAPTER IV.
ON AFFIDAVITS.

424. An aiiidavit to be used before any court, judge, or officer of
this state, may be taken before any judge, or clerk of any court, or
any justice of the peace, or notary public in this state.

1. Affidavits of the loss of an instrument, &c., to be used in court, may be taken ex
parte, without notice.—Mc Cann v. Beach, 2 Cal., 25.

425. An affidavit taken in another state of the United States, to
be used in this state, shall be taken before a commissioner appointed
by the governor of this state, to take affidavits and depositions in such
other state, or before any judge of a court of record having a seal.

426. An affidavit taken in a foreign country to be used in this
state, shall be taken before an ambassador, minister, or consul bf the
United States, or before any judge of a court of record having a seal,
in such foreign country.

427. When an affidavit is taken before a judge of a court in another state, or -in a foreign country, the genuineness of thegsignature
of the judge, the existence of the court, and the fact that such judge
is a member thereof, shall be certified by the clerk of the court, under

the seal thereof.

 

CHAPTER V.
or DEPOSITIONS TAKEN IN THIS STATE.

428. The testimony of a witness in this state, may be taken by
deposition in an action, at any time after the , service of tlg summons
or the appearance of the defendant; and in a special proceeding, after
a question of fact has arisen therein, in the following cases:

1st. When the witness is a party to the action or proceeding, or a
person for whose immediate benefit the action or proceeding is prosecuted or defended ;
2d. When the witness resides out of the county in which his testimony is to be used;
3d. When the witness is about to leave the county where the ‘action
is to be tried, and will probably continue absent when the testimony is

required.
4th. When the witness, otherwise liable to attend the trial, is nevertheless too infirm to attend.

1. Taking testimony by depositions is in derogation of the common law, and must
not only be done before the proper oiiicer, but every requirement of the law must be
complied with.—Mc Cann v. Beach, 2 Cal., 25; Dye v. Bailey, 2 Cal., 383 ; Dwinelle v.
Howland, 1 Abbott, 87. ‘

2. A motion at the trial to suppress the whole of a deposition, on the ground that
some of the interrogatories and parts of the deposition are improper, should be denied.
If any part of the deposition is competent, the objection should be confined to that
which is not so.—C'ommercz'al Bank of Pennsylvania v. Union Bank of New York, 1
Kern., 203.

3. 3d. On the trial it must be shown that the witness has continued absent so that
his attendance could not be compelled by process of law.-—Fry v. Bennett, 4 Duer, 247.

 
 

429. Either party may have the deposition taken of a witness in
this state, before any judge or clerk, or any justice of the peace, or
notary public in this state, on serving upon the adverse party previous
notice of the time and place of examination, together with a copy of an
affidavit, showing that the case is one mentioned in the last section.
Such notice shall be at least five days, and in addition, one day for
every twenty-five miles of the distance of the place of examination from
the residence of the person to whom the notice is given, unless for a
cause shown, a judge, by order, prescribe a shorter time. When a

shorter time is prescribed, a copy of the order shall be served with the
notice. ,; LL jéc 4’; 1

V

1. An order to take testimony by deposition should specify the notice to be given
to the adverse party, otherwise it ought not to be read in evidence.—Ellis v. Jaszynsky,
5 Cal., 444.

2. It is no ground for the exclusion of a deposition that it was noticed to be taken
before the county judge, but was taken before the county clerk.— Williams v. Chadbourne, 6 Cal., 559.

3. Notice of time and place having been given, it is a matter of no importance who
took the deposition.—1b.

4. A party appearing at the time and place, and cross—examining the witness, waives
whatever objection may be had because the notice is too short.-Jones v. Love, 8 Cal.,
Jan. T.

430. Either party may attend such examination, and put such
questions, direct and cross, as may be proper. The deposition, when
completed, shall be carefully read to the witness, and corrected by him
in any particular, if desired ; it shall then be subscribed by the witness, certified by the judge or officer taking the deposition, inclosed
in an envelope or wrapper, sealed, and directed to the clerk of the
court in which the action is pending, or to such person as the parties

in Writing may agree upon, and either delivered by the judge or _olli- .

c_e1;to the clerk or such person, or transmitted through the mail, or by
some safe private opportunity ; and thereupon such deposition may be
used by either party upon the trial, or other proceeding, against any
party giving or receiving the notice, subject to all legal exceptions.
But if the parties attend at the examination, no objection to the form
of an interrogatory shall be made at the trial, unless the same was
stated at the time of the examination. If the deposition be taken by
the reason of the absence or intended absence from the county, of the
witness, or because he is too infirm to attend, proof by affidavit or oral
testimony shall be made at the trial, that the witness continues absent or infirm, to the best of the deponent’s knowledge or belief. The
deposition thus taken may also be read in case of the death of the
Witness.

1. Where a deposition is taken ex parte, though after notice, and the witness is
thereforee not subjected to a cross-examination, the language used by him will be suspiciously regarded, and only a very literal interpretation given to it.—Spring v. Hill, 6
Cal., 17. ~

2. The certificate must state that the deposition was read to the witness before si£
ing; it must comply with the statute.— Williams v. Chadbourne, 6 Cal., 559.

431. When a deposition has been oncevtaken, it may be read in
any stage of the same action or proceeding by either party, and shall
then be deemed the evidence of the party reading it.

CHAPTER VI.
or DEPOSITIONS TAKEN our on THIS STATE.

432.‘ The testimony of a witness out of the state may be taken by
deposition in an action at any time after the service of the summons,
or the appearance of the defendant; and in a special proceeding, at
any time after a question of fact has arisen therein.

1. Diligence must be exercised in applying for a commission.—Pz'er.~on v. Holbroolc,
2 Cal., 598.

2. The proper time to object to such deposition is when it is offered in evidence.Mills v. Dunlap, 3 Cal., 94.

3. It is also admissible, notwithstanding the witness may have retui ned to the state
since his examination, if he is not within the state at the time of the t1ial.—Markw v.

Aldrich, 1 Abbott, 55.

4. On the execution of a commission, the parties have a right’ to appear by counsel.
Cross interrogatories cannot be withdrawn unless by mutual consent. A witness cannot shield himself from answering a cross interrogatory, by a reference to his previous
answerto a direct one.—Um'on Bank v. Torrey, 2 Abbott, 269 ; 5 Duer, 626.

5. This provision is an innovation upon the common law, and must be strictly exercised.— Creamer v. Jackson, 4 Abbott, 413.

433. The deposition of a witness out of this state shall be taken
upon commission issued from the court, under the seal of the court,
upon an order of the judge, or court, or county judge, on the application of either party, upon five days’ previous notice to the other. It
shall be issued to a person agreed upon between the parties, or if they
do not agree, to any judge or justice of the peace selected by the off‘:cer granting the commission, or to a commissioner appointed by the
governor of this state, to take affidavits and depositions in other

states. (a) ‘

434. Such proper interrogatories, direct and cross, as the respective parties may prepare, to be settled, if the parties disagree as to
their form, by the judge or officer granting the order for the commission, at a day fixed in the order, may be annexed to the commission ;
or, -when the parties agree to that mode, the examination may be without written interrogatories.

435. The commission shall authorize the commissioner to administer an oath to the witness, and to take his deposition in answer to the
interrogatories, or, when the examination is to be without interrogatories, in respect to the question in dispute ; and to certify the deposition
to the court, in a sealed envelope directed to the clerk, or other person
designated or agreed upon, and forwarded to him by mail, or other
usual channel of conveyance.

1. An appeal does not lie from an order refusing to grant a commission to take testimony.—People v. Stillman, 7 Cal., Jan. T. ‘

2. The commission is defective if there is nota seal a.ttached.— Whitney v. Wyncoop
4 Abbott, 370.

436. A trial, or other proceeding, shall not be postponed by reason
of a commission not returned, except upon evidence satisfactory to the
court, that the testimony of the witness is necessary, and that proper
diligence has been used to obtain it.

CHAPTER 
Ouxxu./ttokcrb — Obzxto '53 * [J'-1“‘9OF PROCEEDINGS T0 PERPETUATE TESTIMONY.

437. The testimony of a witness may be taken and perpetuated as
provided in this chapter.

'43s. The applicant shall produce to a district judge, or to a county judge, an affidavit stating:

1st. That the applicant expects to be a partyto an action in a court
in this state ;

2d. That the testimony of a witness residing in this state, whose place
of residence is stated, is necessary to the prosecution or defense of
such action; and generally the facts expected to be proved ; ,

3d. That the party named, who is expected to be adverse to the
applicant, resides or is at the time in this state. The judge may,
thereupon, in his discretion, make an order allowing the examination,
and prescribing how long before the examination the order and notice
'of the time and place thereof shall be served.

1. It must be made to appear to the judge that the object is in good faith, to perpetuate testimony.—Paton Y. Westervelt, 5 How. Pr., 399.

489. Upon proof of personal service upon the person who is expected to be the adverse party, of the order, copy of the aiiidavit, and
of a notice that the examination will be taken before a district judge,
or county judge of the county wherein the witness resides, or may be at
a specified time and place, such judge may take a deposition of the
witness, and the examination may, if necessary, be adjourned from time
to time.

440. The examination shall be by question and answer, unless the
parties otherwise agree. The deposition, when completed, shall be
carefully read to and subscribed by the witness, then certified by the
judge, and immediately thereafter filed in the office of the clerk of the
county where it was taken, together with the order for the examination
of the witness, the affidavit on which the same was granted, and the
aiiidavit of service of the affidavit, order, or notice.

441. The allidavits filed with the deposition, or a certified copy
thereof, shall be primary evidence of the facts stated therein, to show

compliance with the provisions of this chapter. '

442. If a trial be had between the persons named in the affidavit
as parties expectant, or their successors in interest, upon proof of the
death or insanity of the witness, or of his inability to attend the trial
by reason of age, sickness, or settled infirmity, the deposition, or a certified copy thereof, may be used by either party, subject to all legal
objections. But if the parties attend at the examination, no objection

to the form of an interrogatory shall be made at the trial, unless the
same was stated at the time of the examination.

CHAPTER VIII.
ADMINISTRATION or OATHS AND AFFIRMATIONS.
I

443. Every court of this state, every judge or clerk of any court,
every justice of the peace, and every notary public, and every officer,
authorized to take testimony, or to decide upon evidence in any proceeding, shall have power to administer oaths or affirmations. (a)

444. When a person is sworn who believes in any other than the
christian religion, he may be sworn according to the peculiar ceremonies of his religion,’ if there be any such.

445. Any witness who desires it may, at his option, instead of taking an oath, make his solemn affirmation or declaration, by assenting,
when addressed, in the following form: “ You do solemnly allirm that
the evidence you shall give in this issue, (or matter,) pending between
and , shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing
but the trut .” Assent to this allirmation shall be made by the answer, “ I do.” A false affirmation or declaration shall be deemed perjury, equally with a false oath.

CHAPTER IX.

INSPECTION OF DOCUMENTS, AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS AS TO
RECORDS AND WRITINGS.

446. Any court in ‘which an action is pending, or a judge thereof,

or a county judge, may, upon notice, order either party to give to the
,other, within a specified time, an inspection and copy, or permission
to take a copy, of any book, document, or paper, in his possession, or
under his control, containing evidence relating to the merits of the
action, or the defense therein. If compliance with the order be rehaed, the court may exclude the book, document, or paper, from being
given in evidence; or if wanted as evidence by the party applying,
may direct the jury to presume it to be such as he alleges it to be:

and the court may also punish the party refusing for a contempt. This T

section shall not be construed to prevent a party from compelling another to produce books, papers, or documents, when he is examined as
a witness.

1. The court is authorized to make an order directing a party to produce books and
papers in court.—Barnstead v. Empire Mning Co., 5 Cal., 299.

2. The court has the power, in any case where either party has in his possession or
power papers, books, or documents containing evidence bearing upon the merits of the
action, to compel such party to exhibit the same to the adverse party, if deemed proper.—Powers v. Elmendmf, 4 How. Pr., 60.

3. An order for discovery may be enforced before issue joined in the cause.—MiIlav. Mather, 5 ib., 160.

4. An application for discovery or inspection must be made upon petition.—Dole v.
Fellows, ib., 451.

5. Where the president, or other officer of a corporation, has no such property in,
or control over, the books of the corporation, as gives him the right, or makes it his
duty, to produce them under a duces tecum, the proper remedy of the opposite party is
to obtain sworn copies, or an inspection and review.—La Farge v. La Farge Ins. Co.,14
ib., 26.

6. Where, upon a motion to vacate an order for discovery, made under this section,
the party denies positively, under oath, the possession of the books, &c., ordered to be

produced, the order must be vacated.—AhoyIce v. Wolcott, 4 Abbott, 41 ; Bradstreet v.
Bailey, ib., 233.

447. There shall be no evidence of the contents of a writing, other
than the writing itself, except in the following cases:

448. The party producing a writing as genuine, which has been
altered, or appears to have been altered, after its execution, in a part
material to the question in dispute, and such alteration is not noted on
the writing, shall account for the appearance or alteration. He may
show that the alteration was made by another, without his concurrence,
or was made with the consent of the parties aifected by it, or otherwise
properly or innocently made. If he do that, he may give the writing
in evidence, but not otherwise.

1. A card published in a newspaper, without the knowledge of either party to the

suit, is no evidence but to impeach the credibility of a witness.—Dwz'nelle v. Henriquez,
1 Cal., 387.

2. It is error to admit letters in evidence, without proving that they were written by
the party intended to be charged by their contents.—Sinclair v. Wood, 3 Cal., 98.

3. To prove handwriting of a subscribing witness, he must be shown to be beyond
the jurisdiction of the court, or that diligent search for him had been made without

avail.—Powell’s Heirs v. Hendricks, 3 Cal., 427.

449. A judicial record of this state, or of the United States, may
be proven by the production of the original, or a copy thereof, certified
by the clerk, or other person having the legal custody thereof, under
the seal of the court, to be a true copy of such record. (a)

judge, chief justice, or presiding magistrate, as the case may be, that
the said attestation is in due form.

1. A certificate of exemplification of a judgment rendered in another state, when
attested by the clerk, under the seal of the court, and where the presiding judge of the

court certifies that the attestation is in due form of law, is sufficient, under the act of

Congress of May 26th, 1790, to sustain an action upon the judgment in another state.
Thompson v. Zllanrow, 1 Cal., 428.

2. The legislature cannot require a greater amount of proof than that prescribed
by Congress, but may require less.—ParIce v. Williams, 7 Cal., Jan. T.

451. A judicial record of a foreign country may be proved by the
production of a copy thereof, certified by the clerk, with the seal of
the court annexed, if there be a clerk and seal ; or by the legal keeper
of the record, with the seal of his office annexed, if there be a seal,
to be a true copy of such record: together with a certificate of a judge
of the‘ court, that the person making the certificate is the clerk of the
court, or the legal keeper of the record, and in either case, that the
signature is genuine, and the certificate in due form ; and also together
with the certificate of the minister or embassador of the United States,
or of a consul of the United States, in such foreign country, that there
is such a court, specifying generally the nature of its jurisdiction, and
verifying the signature of the judge and clerk, or other legal keeper of
the record.

452. A copy of the judicial record of a foreign country shall also
be admissible in evidence upon proof:

1st. That the copy offered has been compared by the Witness with
the original, and is an exact transcript of the Whole of it ;

2d. That such original was in the custody of the clerk of the court,
or other legal keeper of the same; and

3d. That the copy is duly attested by a seal, which is proved to be
the seal of the court where the record remains, if it be the record
of a court; or if there be no such seal, or if it be not the record of a
court, by the signature of the legal keeper of the original.

See Sec. 655.

’ 453. Printed copies, in volumes, of statutes, code, or other written
law, enacted by any other state, territory, or foreign government, purporting or proved to have been published by the authority thereof, or
proved to be commonly admitted as evidence of the existing law, in

the courts and judicial tribunals of such state, territory or government,
shall be admitted by the courts and officers of this state, on all occasions, as presumptive evidence of such laws.

See Sec. 655.

454. A seal of a court or public office, when required to any writ
or process, or proceeding, or to authenticate a copy of any record or
document, may be impressed with wax, wafer, or any other substance,
and then attached to the writ, process or proceeding, or to the copy
of the record or document, or it may be impressed on the paper alone.

1 . The impression of the seal maybe made upon paper only.—C'onnolly v. Goodwin,
5 Cal., 220 ; Ross v. Bedell, 5 Duer, 462.

TITLE XII.

OF THE WRIT OF CERTIORARI AND OF MANDAMUS.
CHAPTER I.
THE WRIT ‘OF CERTIORARI, OR REVIEW.
455. The writ of certiorari may be denominated the writ of review.

456. This writ may be granted on application, by any court of this
state, except a justice’s, recorder’s, or mayor’s court : the writ shall be
granted in all cases when an inferior tribunal, board or officer, exercising judicial functions, has exceeded the jurisdiction of such tribunal,
board or oiiicer, and there is no appeal, nor in the judgment of the
court, any plain, speedy and adequate remedy.

See Sec. 653.

1 A review and not a.mandate should issue to a district court to send up documents where no appeal would lie.—Fz‘eld v. Turner, 1 Cal., 152.

2. When the Writ will lie.-—E2: parte Hanson, 2 Cal., 262.

3. A review to the board of supervisors on the ground of want of jurisdiction, is
premature if taken before the action of the board.— Wilson v. Supervisorsqf Sacramento
C'o., 3 Cal., 386.

I

457. The application shall be made on affidavit by the party beneficially interested, and the court may require a notice of the application
to be given to the adverse party, or may grant an order to show cause

why it should not be allowed, or may grant the Writ without notice.
é/’.L’_(.» ;/1/fl-i/J 1," ‘T,’ 13-59 Z0 33- //J/“‘f"<'1 Gag?458. The writ may be directed to the inferior tribunal, board or
officer, or to any other person having the custody of the record or proceedings to be certified. When directed to a tribunal, the clerk, if
there be one, shall return the writ with the transcript required.

459. The writ of review shall command the party to whom it is
directed to certify fully to the court issuing the writ, at a specified
time and place, and annex to the writ a transcript of the record and
proceedings, (describing or referring to them, with convenient certainty,) that the same may_be reviewed by the court: and requiring the
party in the mean time to desist from further proceedings in the matter to be reviewed." '

460. T If a stay of proceedings be not intended, the words requiring
the stay shall be omitted from the writ ; these words may be inserted
or omitted in the sound discretion of the court; but if omitted, the

power of the inferior court or oilicer shall not be suspended, nor the
proceedings stayed.

461. The writ shall be served in the same manner as a summons
in civil action, except when otherwise expressly directed by the court.

462. The review upon this writ shall not be extended further than to
determine whether the inferior tribunal, board or officer has regularly
pursued the authority of such tribunal, board or officer.

463. ' If the return of the writ be defective, the court may order a
further return to be made. When a ‘full return has been made, the
court shall proceed to hear the parties, or such of them as may attend
for that purpose, and may thereupon give judgment, either affirming,
or annulling, or modifying the proceedings below.

See Sec. 25, p. 15.

464. A copy of the judgment, signed by the clerk, shall be transmitted to the inferior tribunal, board, or officer having the custody of
the record or proceeding certified up. 4

465. p A copy of the judgment, signed by the clerk, entered upon,
or attached to, the writ and return, shall constitute the judgment roll.
If the proceeding be had in any other than the supreme court, an appeal may be taken from the judgment in the same manner, and upon
the same terms, as from a judgment in a civil action.

1. For costs on writ of review, see Sec. 508.

CHAPTER II.

THE WRIT OF MANDATE, OR MANDAMUS.

466. The writ of mandamus may be denominated the writ of mandate.

467. It may be issued by any court in the state, except a justice’s
recorder’s or mayor’s court, to any inferior tribunal, corporation, board
or person, to compel the performance of an act, which the law specially
enjoins, as a duty resulting from an office, trust, or station ; or to compel the admission of a party to the use and enjoyment of a right, or
office to which he is entitled, and from which he is unlawfully precluded by such inferior tribunal, corporation, board, or person.

See Sec. 653.
O

native writ shall state generally the allegation against the party to
whom it is directed, and command such party, immediately after the
receipt of the writ, or at some other specified time, to do the act required to be performed, or to show cause before the court, at a specified time and place, why he has not done so. The peremptory writ
shall be in a similar form, except that the words requiring the party to
show cause why he has not done as commanded, shall be omitted, and
a. return day shall be inserted.

1. A demurrer does not lie to an alternative writ of mandamus.—People v. Harris,
6 Abbott, 30.

470. When the application to the court is made without notice to
the adverse party, and the writ be allowed, the alternative shall be
first issued; but if the application be upon due notice, and the Writ
be allowed, the peremptory may be issued in the first instance. The
notice of the application, when given, shall be at least ten days. The
writ shall not be granted by default. The case shall be heard by the
court, whether the adverse party appear or not.

471. On the return of the alternative, or the day on which the applicationof the writ is noticed, or such further day as the court may
allow, the party on whom the writ or notice may have been served,
may show cause by answer under oath, made in the same manner as
an answer to a complaint in a civil action.

472. If an answer is made, which raises a question as to a matter
of fact essential to the determination of the motion, and affecting the
substantial rights of the parties, and upon the supposed truth of the
allegation of which the application for the writ is based, the court may,
in its discretion, order the question to be tried before a jury, and postpone the argument until such trial can be had, and the verdict certilied to the court. The question to be tried shall be distinctly stated

in the order for trial, and the county shall be designated in which the
same shall be had. The order may also direct the jury to assess any

damages which the applicant may have sustained, in case they find
for him.

an an -_ _..

473. On the trial, the applicant shall not be precluded by the answer of any valid objection to its sufficiency, and may countervail it by
proof, either in direct denial, or by way of avoidance.

474. If either party be dissatisfied with the verdict of the jury, he
may move for a new trial upon a statement prepared as provided in
section one hundred and ninety-five. The motion for a new trial may,
upon a reasonable notice, be brought on before the judge of the court
in which the cause was tried, either in_ term or vacation. If a new
trial be granted, the jury shall, within five days thereafter, unless the
parties agree on a longer time, be summoned to try the isssue. After
a second verdict in favor of the same party, a new trial shall not be had.

475. If no notice for a new trial be given, or if given, be denied,
the clerk, within five days after the rendition of the verdict or denial
of the motion, shall transmit to the court in which the application for
the writ is pending, a certified copy of the. verdict attached to the
order of trial; after which, either party may bring on the argument of
the application, upon reasonable notice to the adverse party.

476. If no answer be made the case shall be heard on the papers
of the applicant. If an answer be made which does not raise a question such as is mentioned in section four hundred and seventy-two, but
only such matters as may be explained or avoided by a reply, the
court may, in its discretion. grant time for replying. If the answer,
or answer and reply, raise only questions of law, or put in issue immaterial statements, not affecting the substantial rights of the parties, the
court shall proceed to hear, or fix a day for hearing the argument of
the case.

477. If judgment be given for the applicant he shall recover the
damages which he shall have sustained, as found by the jury, or as
may be determined by the court, or referee, upon a reference to be
ordered, together with costs; and for such damages and costs an execution may issue ; and a peremptory mandate shall also be awarded
without delay.

478. The writ shall be served in the same manner as a summons in
a civil action, except when otherwise expressly directed by order of the
court.

479. When a peremptory mandate has been issued and directed to
an inferior tribunal, corporation, board, or person, if it appear to the
court, that any member of such tribunal, corporation, or board, or such
person, upon whom the writ has been personally served, has, without
just excuse, refused or neglected to obey the same, the court may,
upon motion, impose a line not exceeding one thousand dollars. In
case of persistence in a refusal of obedience, the court may order the
party to be imprisoned for a period not exceeding three months, and
may make any orders necessary and proper for the complete enforcement of the writ. If a line be imposed upon a judge or oilicer who
draws a salary from the state or county, a certified copy of the order
shall be forwarded to the comptroller, or county treasurer, as the case
may be,.and the amount thereof may be retained from the salary of
such judge or oilicer. Such judge or oilicer, for his willful disobedience shall also be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor in office.

‘TITLE XIII.

OF CONTEMPTS AND THEIR PUNISHMENTS.

480. The following acts or omissions shall be deemed contempts :

1st. Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior towards the
judge whilst holding court, or engaged in his judicial duties at chambers, or towards referees or arbitrators whilst sitting on a reference or
arbitration, tending to interrupt the due course of a trial, reference or
arbitration, or other judicial proceeding;

2d. A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct, or violent disturbance in presence of- the court, or its immediate vicinity, tending to
interrupt the due course of a trial, or other judicial proceeding;

3d. Disobedience or resistance to any lawful writ, order, rule or
process, issued by the court or judge at chambers ;

4th. Disobedience of a subpoena duly served, or refusing to be
sworn or answer as a witness ;

5th. Rescuing any person or property in the custody of any officer,
by virtue of an order of process of such court or judge at chambers.

1. 3d. The power of the court to punish as fora criminal contempt, “ willful disobedience,” should not be exercised unless the acts constituting the alleged contempt are
clearly proved and constitute a positive violation of the plain terms of the process or
order.— Weeks v. Smith, 3 Abbott, 211.

2. The court has the inherent powerin a general sense of punishing as for contempt,
disobedience to orders made by judges out of court.— VVicIces v. Dresser, 4 Abbott, 93 ;

13 How. Pr., 331.

3. 4th. A person cannot be deemed guilty of contempt for disobedience to the process of the court, who trespasses upon a party put in possession under execution, as the
authority of the court has then ceased.—Lorz'ng v. Illsley, 1 Cal., 24.

481. When a contempt is committed in the immediate view and
presence of the court, or judge at chambers, it may be punished summarily ; for which an order shall be made, reciting the facts as occurring in such immediate view and presence, adjudging that the person
proceeded against is thereby guilty of a contempt, and that he be
punished as therein prescribed. When the contempt is not committed
in the immediate view and presence of the court, or judge at chambers,
an aiiidavit shall be presented to the court, or judge, of the facts constituting the contempt, or a statement of the facts by the referees or

arbitrators.

1. Courts are exclusive judges of their own contempts, but a party cannot be imprisoned for neglecting or refusing to do what appears to be out of his power to perform.—Adams v. Has/cell, 6 Cal., 316; Ex parte Cohen, ib., 318; People v. Turner, 1
Cal., 152.

2. A statement that R. was committed for contempt in refusing to answer certain
questions propounded to him by the grand jury, is not a compliance with the section.
The questions asked should be set out.—Ex parte Rowe, 7 Cal., Jan. T.

482. When a contempt is not committed in immediate view and
presence of the court or judge, a warrant of attachment may be issued
to bring the person charged to answer, or without a previous arrest, a
warrant of commitment may, upon notice, or upon an order to show
cause, be granted; and no warrant of commitment shall be issued
without such previous attachment to answer, or such notice or orderto

show cause.

483. Whenever a warrant of attachment is issued pursuant to this
chapter, the court or judge shall direct whether the person charged
may be let to bail for his appearance, upon the warrant, or detained in
custody without bail; and if he may be bailed, the amount in which he
may be let to bail. The directions given in this respect shall be
specified in the warrant, or endorsed thereon.

484. Upon executing the warrant of attachment, the sheriff shall
keep the person in custody, bring him before the court or judge, and
detain him until an order be made in the premises, unless the person
arrested entitle himself to be discharged, as provided in the next
section. __ \

485. When a direction to let the person arrested to bail, is contained
in the warrant of attachment, or endorsed thereon, he shall be discharged
from the arrest, upon executing and delivering to the officer, at any
time before the return day of the Warrant, a Written undertaking, with
two suiiicient sureties, to the effect that the person arrested will appear,
on the return of the warrant and abide the order of the court or judge
thereupon; or they will pay as may be directed, the sum specified in
the warrant.

486. The officer shall return the warrant of arrest and undertaking, if any, received by him from the person arrested, by the return
day specified therein.

487. /When the person arrested has been brought up or appeared,
the court or judge shall proceed to investigate the charge, and shall
bear any answer which the person arrested may make to the same, and
may examine witnesses for or against him, for which an adjournment
may be had from time to time, if necessary.

488. Upon the answer and evidence taken, the court or judge
shall determine whether the person proceeded against is guilty of the
contempt charged, and if it be adjudged that he is guilty of the contempt, a fine may be imposed on him not exceeding five hundred
dollars, or he may be imprisoned not exceeding five days, or both.

489. When the contempt consists in the omission to perform an

act which is yet in the power of the person to perform, he may be imprisoned until he have performed it, and in that case the act shall be
specified in the warrant of commitment. '

1. If a party be imprisoned for contempt in not answering questions pertinent in
an action, he will be discharged when that action has abated.—E:r parte Rowe, 7 Cal.,

Jan. T.

490. Persons proceeded against according to the provisions of this
chapter, shall also be liable to indictment for the same misconduct, if
it be an indictable offense ; but the court before which a conviction is
had on the indictment, in passing sentence, shall take into consideration the punishment before inflicted.

491. When the warrant of arrest has been returned served, if the
person arrested do not appear on the return day, the court or judge
may issue another warrant of arrest, or may order the undertaking to
be prosecuted, or both. If the undertaking be prosecuted, the measure of damages in the action shall be the extent of the loss or injury
sustained by the aggrieved party, by reason of the misconduct for
which the warrant was issued, and the costs of the proceeding.

492. Whenever by the provisions of this chapter, an oiiicer is required to keep a person, arrested on awarrant of attachment, in custody,
and to bring him before a court or judge, the inability, from illness or
otherwise, of the person to attend shall be a sufficient excuse for not
bringing him up ; and the officer shall not confine a person arrested
upon the warrant in a prison, or otherwise restrain him of personal
liberty, except so far as may be necessary to secure his personal attendance.

1. Where an order of the district court, lining and imprisoning for contempt, does
not specify on its face wherein the contempt consisted, it will be reversed on certiorari.—
Ex parte Field, 1 Cal., 187.

493. The judgment and orders of the court or judge, made incases
of contempt, shall be final and conclusive. The punishment shall be
by line or imprisonment, but no fine shall exceed the sum of live hundred dollars, and no imprisonment shall exceed the period of five days,
except as provided in section four hundred and eighty-nine.

1. This order is liable to be reviewed by a higher tribunal.—Ex parte Cohen, 5 Cal.,
494.

TITLE XIV.

OF COSTS.

494. [1853, 1855.] The measure and mode of compensation of
attorneys and counselors shall be left to the agreement, express or implied, of the parties. But there shall be allowed to the prevailing
party in‘ any action in the supreme court, district courts and county
courts, his costs and necessary disbursements in the action or special
proceeding in the nature of an action.

1. An attorney has no lien on a judgment for his fee.—Ex parte Kyle, 1 Cal.,
331 ; Noxon v. Gregory, 5 How. Pr., 33_9; Benedict v. Harlow, ib., 347.

2. Counsel fees, when stipulated, are a mere incident of the judgment, and should

be annexed to the costs.—C'arrz'ére v. Mintum, 5 Cal., 435; Gronfier v. lllinturn, ib.,
492. '

495. [1853.] Costs shall be allowed of course to the plaintifff
upon a judgment in his favor, in the following cases:

1st. In an action for the recovery of real property;

2d. In an action to recover the possession of personal property,
when the value of the property amounts to two hundred dollars or
over. Such value shall be determined by the jury, court or referee,
by whom the action is tried ;

3d. In an action for the recovery of money or damages where plaintill’ recovers two hundred dollars or over ;

4th. In a special proceeding in the nature of an action.
See Sec. 255.

I
1. Where a remittitur is sent down, the clerk of the district court may issue execution for costs.—Ma_z/or of Marysville v. Buchanan, 3 Cal., 212.

2. The plaintifff is bound by his statement of the value of the property, if no other
is found by the court, and costs will be taxed accordingly.—Edgar v. Gray, 5 Cal., 267.

3. Where a plaintitl‘ recovers less than two hundred dollars, but extinguishes a
counterclaim set up in the answer, which exceeds that amount, neither party is entitled
to costs.—Kalt v. Lignot,3 Abbott, 33, 190.

496. When several actions are brought on one bond, undertaking,
promissory note, bill of exchange, or other instrument in writing, or in

any other case for the same cause of action, against several parties
who might have been joined as defendants in the same action, no costs
shall be allowed to the plaintifff in more than one of such actions, which
may be at his election, if the party proceeded against in the other actions were at the commencement of the previous action openly within

this state; but the disbursements of the plaintifff shall be allowed to
him in each section [action.]

497. Costs shall be allowed, of course, to the defendant, upon a
judgment in his favor in the actions mentioned in section four hundred and ninety-five, and in a special proceeding in the nature of an
action.

See noteto Sec. 145. 9 Lil xi

1. Where several defendants defend successfully by different attorneys who are
partners, but one bill of costs can be allowed ; but otherwise, if they are not partners.
—Collomb v. Caldwell, 5 How. Pr., 336 ; Crof ts v. Rockefeller, 6 ib., 9.

2. Where several defendants are sued and judgment obtained by plaintifff against a
part only, the others who obtain judgment against the plaintifff, are entitled to costs.Hinds v. Myers, 4 How. Pr., 356 ; Cuyler v. Coats, 10 ib., 141 ; Daniels v. Lyon, 5 Selden, 549.

498. In other actions than those mentioned in section 495, costs
may be allowed, or not ; and if allowed, may be apportioned between
the parties, on the same or adverse sides, in the discretion of the
court ; but no costs shall be allowed in an action for the recovery of
money or damages when the plaintifff recovers less than two hundred
dollars, nor in an action to recover the possession of personal property,
when the value of the property is less than two hundred dollars.

1. Costs are an incident of the judgment to be taxed by the clerk or court, and cannot be given by the jury as damages where less than two hundred dollars is recovered.Shay v. T uolumne Water 00., 6 Cal., 289.

2. An action brought after an irregular levy and sale, to enjoin the parties from perfecting the sale, and to recover damages for the injury already done, is one of those ac,
tions in which costs are in the discretion of the court.—Sunney v. Roach, 4 Abbott, 16.

499. When there are several defendants in the actions mentioned
in section four hundred and ninety-live, not united in interest, and
making separate defenses by separate answers, and the plaintifff fails
to recover judgment against all, the court shall award costs to such of
the defendants as have judgment in their favor. '

1. In an action for tort against two, where there is a verdict in favor of one defendant, and in favor of the plaintifff against the other defendant, the defendant prevailing,
is entitled, of course, to costs under this section.—DecIcer v. Gardiner, 4 Seld., 29.

'2. Where there is but one set of papers, one argument and one judgment, there is
but one appeal, and the successful party is entitled to but one bill of costs, notwithstanding that the .several adverse parties appeared by different attorneys.—Eve1-son v. Gehrman, 2 Abbott, 413.

500. In the following cases the costs of an appeal shall be in the
discretion of the court: «
1st. When a new trial is ordered;
2d. When a judgment is modified.

1. Where a judgment was affirmed in part, and reversed in part, the respondent
was allowed his costs in the court below, but was required to pay the costs of appeal.Colev. Swanston, 1 Cal., 51. I

See Rule XXXI.

501, 502, 503. [1855.] Repealed.

504. The fees of referees shall be five dollars to each, for every
day spent in the business of the reference ; but the parties may agree

in writing upon any other rate of compensation, and thereupon such
rate shall be allowed.

505. [1855.] When an application is made to a court or referee to
postpone‘ a trial, the payment of costs occasioned by the postponement
may be imposed, in the discretion of the court or referee, as a condition of granting the same.

506. When, in an action for the recovery of money only, the defendant alleges in his answer, that before the commencement of th

.4.-...—... Y. '

 

action he tendered to the plaintiff the full amount to which he was entitled, and thereupon deposits in court, for the plaintifff, the amount so
tendered, and the allegation be found to be true, the plaintifff shall not

0

recover costs, but shall pay costs to the defendant. .  . .: -.

1. The answer must aver a readiness still to pay the tender; it is an essential part
of the plea.—Kortrz'glzt v. Cady, 23 Ba.rb., 490 ; 5 Abbott, 358.

2. Evidence of waiver of tender by opposite party, is competent and suilicient to
support the averment of tender.—Holmes v. Holmes, 5 Seld., 525.

3. It is very doubtful if a tender can now be made after suit brought, unless in the
form of sec. 390, an ofer to take judgment.-—Thurston v. Marsh, 14 How. Pr., 572.

507. In an action prosecuted or defended by an executor, administrator, trustee of express trust, or a person expressly authorized by

)
l’

statute, costs may be recovered as in action by and against a person
prosecuting or defending -in his own right; but such costs shall, by
the judgment, be made chargeable only upon the estate, fund, or party
represented, unless the court shall direct the same to be paid by _the
plaintifff or defendant, personally, for mismanagement or bad faith in
the action or defense.

508. When the decision of a court of inferior jurisdiction in a special proceeding is brought before a court of higher jurisdiction for a review in any other way than by appeal, the same costs shall be allowed
as in cases on appeal, and may be collected by execution, or in such
manner as the court may direct, according to the nature of the case.

509. On the commencement of an action, the plaintiil‘, and on the liling of notice of appeal from a final judgment, the appellant, shall pay to
the clerk three dollars, to be applied to the payment of the salary of the
judge or judges of the court in which the payment is made. Each clerk
shall keep an account of money so received, and shall pay over the same,
at the end of each month, to the judge or judges of the court, taking
duplicate receipts of each payment, one of which shall be filed by the
clerk in his own court. On the first day of each month the clerk of
each county court shall deliver to the treasurer of his county, an account of all sums received, specifying the cases in which received, and
of all sums paid out, with the receipt of the judge or judges therefore;
at the same time a like account shall be forwarded by the clerks of the
district courts to the comptroller of the state, of the sums paid into
their respective courts, and of the sums paid out, with the receipts of
the judges therefore. In paying the salary of any district judge, the
comptroller, and in paying the salary of any county judge, the county
treasurer, shall deduct the amount paid to such judge or judges, under
the provisions of this section, as shown by the receipts of the judge or
judges in their respective offices.

510. [1854.] The party in whose favor judgment is rendered, and

l who claims his costs, shall deliver to the clerk of the court within two

 

1 days after the verdict or decision of the court, a memorandum of the
' items of his costs and necessary disbursements in the action or proceeding, which memorandum shall be verified by the oath of the party,

or his attorney, stating that the items are correct, and that the disbursements have been necessarily incurred in the action or proceeding.

1. For amendment, or re-taxation of costs.—Burnham v. Hays, 3 Cal., 115.

511. The clerk shall include in the judgment entered up by him,

the costs, the per centage allowed, and any interest on the verdict
from the time it was rendered.

512. When the plaintiff in an action resides out of the state, or is
a. foreign corporation, security for the costs and charges which may be
awarded against such plaintifff, may be required by the defendant.
When required, all proceedings in the action shall he stayed until an
undertaking, executed by two or more persons, be filed with the clerk,
to the elfect that they will pay such costs and charges as may be

awarded against the plaintiff by judgment, or in the progress of the, (1

action, not exceeding the sum of three hundred dollars. A new or an
additional undertaking may be ordered by the court or judge, upon
proof that the original undertaking is insufficient security, and proceedings in the action stayed until such new or additional undertaking
be executed and filed.

1 . A foreign government suing in a court of the state may be required to file security
for costs.—Republic of Mexico v. Arrangois, 3 Abbott, 470.

2. The defendant has the right to security for costs only, where all the plaintifffs are
non-residents.—Ten Broeclc v. Reynolds, 13 How. Pr., 462.

3. Where plaintiffs have once put in security for costs required by statute, they cannot be ordered to file new security, although the security on the original undertaking
became insolvent.—Hartford Quarry C’o., v. Pendleton, 4 Abbott, 460.

513. Each of the sureties on the undertaking mentioned abov e
shall annex to the same an allidavit that he is a resident and householder or freeholder within the county, and is worth double the
amount specified in the undertaking, over and above all his just debts
and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution.

514. After the lapse of thirty days“ from the service of notice that
security is required, or of an order for new or additional security, upon
proof thereof, and that no undertaking as required has been filed, the
court or judge may order the action to be dismissed.

- .-._._.a

TITLE XV.

OF MOTIONS, ORDERS, NOTICES, SERVICE OF PAPERS, AND
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

515. Every direction of a court or judge made or entered in writing
and not included in a judgment, is denominated an order. An application for an order is a motion.

See Sec. 25, p. 15.

1. If a party to an ‘action proceeds upon an order made in a cause or accepts any
benefit under it, he will be precluded from asking its review.—Radway v. Graham, 4
Abbott, 468.

516. Motions shall be made in the county in which the action is
brought, or in an adjoining county in the same district.

517. [1853.] When a written notice of a motion is necessary, it
shall be given, if the court be held in the same district with both parties, five days before the time appointed for the hearing, otherwise ten
days ; but the court, or judge, or county judge, may prescribe a shorter
time.

See Sec. 531.

1. A slight error in the title of the cause, when there is no other suit pending between the parties, will not invalidate the notice.—l|lills v. Dunlap, 3 Cal., 94.

2. Statutes fixing the time for filing papers in a cause, are merely directory, and the
court has it always in its power, in the exercise of a proper discretion, to extend the

time fixed by law, whenever the ends of justice would seem to demand fuch an extension.— Wood v. Fobes, 5 Cal., 62.

3. Defective papers served should be immediately returned or notice given to the
party from whom’ they are received, that they will be disregarded ; a delay of live or
six days will be construedinto an acceptance.-— Wright v. Forbes, 1 How. Pr., 240; Ctr!land Mutual Insurance Co. v. Lathrop, 2 ib., 146 ; Knickerbocker v. Loucks, 3 ib., 64;

Levi v. Jakeways, 4 ib., 126.

518. When a notice of motion is given,or an order to show cause is
inade returnable before a judge out of court, and at the time fixed for
the motion, or on the return day of the order, the judge is unable to
hear the parties, the matter may be transferred by his order to some
other judge, before whom it might originally have been brought.

519. Written notices and other papers, when required to be served
on the party or attorney, shall be served in the manner prescribed
in the next three sections, when not otherwise provided; but nothing
in this title shall be applicable to original or final process, or any proceedings to bring a party into contempt.

1. Service of a notice or other papers on a Sunday, is irregular and void.-—Fz'eld v.
Park, 20 John., 140.

520. The service may be personal, by delivery to the party or
attorney, on whom the service is required to be made, or it may be as
follows:

1st. If upon an attorney, it may be made during his absence from
his oiiice, by leaving the notice or other papers with his clerk therein,
or with a person having charge thereof; or when there is no person in
the office, by leaving them, between the hours of eight in the morning
and six in the afternoon, in a conspicuous place in the oilice; or if it
be not open, so as to admit of such service, then by leaving them at
the attorney’s residence, with some person of suitable age and discretion; and if his residence be not known, then by putting the same enclosed in an envelope, into the post-oilice, directed to such attorney;

2d. If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the notice or other
paper at his residence, between the hours of eight in the morning and
six in the evening, with some person of suitable age and discretion ;
and if his residence be not known, by putting the same, enclosed in an
envelope, into the post-office directed to such party.

521. Service by mail may be made, where the person making the
service, and the person on whom it is to be made, reside in diiferent

_ places, between which there is a regular communication by mail.

1. When the paper is thus deposited in the proper post-office, correctly addressed
and postage paid, the service is deemed complete, and the party to whom it is addressed
takes the risk of the failure of the mail.—Lawler v. Saratoga Mutzzal Insurance Co., 2
Code R., 114; Jacobs v. Hooker, 1 Barb., 71 ; Schenck v. llIcKie, 4 How. Pr., 246.

522. In case of service by mail, the notice or other paper shall be
deposited in the post-office, addressed to the person on whom it is to
be served, at his place of residence, and the postage paid. And in.
such case the time of service shall be increased one day for every

tiyeritymmilgesm distance between the place of deposit and the place of
the address.

- ~. 3' ‘ ‘ *1 ..r
‘.1 _,«\ _ ) an

I5

1. Giving notice by mail is depositing a letter containing the requisite information,
properly addressed, into the post-oiiice.—Vassar v. Camp, 14 Barb., 341.

523. A defendant shall be deemed to appear in an action when he
answers, demurs, or gives the plaintiii‘ written notice of his appearance,
or when an attorney gives notice of appearance for him. After appearance, a defendant or his attorney shall be entitled to notice of all
subsequent proceedings, of which notice is required to be given. But
where a defendant has not appeared, service of notice or papers need

not be made upon him, unless he be imprisoned for want of_ bail?
' :5“, Q1435 0v.~.»uL_'.

524. When a plaintifff or a defendant who has appeared resides out
of the state, and has no attorney in the action or proceeding, the service

may be made on the clerk for him. But in all cases where a party _

has an attorney in the action or proceeding, the service of papers, when
required, shall be upon the attorney instead of the party, except of
subpoenas, of writs, and other process issued in the suit, and of papers
to-bring him into contempt.

1. Where a party changes his attorneys in an action, and there is no regular substitution of attorneys as pointed out by statute, notices may be served on the attorney of
record.—Grant v. I'Vln'te, 6 Cal., 55.

2. It is irregular to serve papers in a cause upon, the attorney, after he becomes a
non-resident.—DiefE2ndorf v. House, 9 How. Pr., 243.

525. Successive actions may be maintained upon the same contract

or transaction, whenever, after the former action, anew cause of action
arises therefrom.

526. Whenever two or more actions are pending at one time between the same parties, and in the same court, upon causes of action

which might have been joined, the court may order the actions to be
consolidated into one.

1. This may be on the motion of plaintifff or defendant.—Brz'g_qs v. Gaunt, 4 Duer,
664.

527. An action may be brought by one person against another, for
the purpose of determining an adverse claim which the latter makes

.against the former, for money or propertyhupon an alleged obligation;

and also against two or more persons, for the purpose of compelling

one to satisfy a debt due to the other, for which the plaintifff is bound
as security. 1 J I " - 3:" ’‘

528. The clerk shall keep among the records of the court, a register of actions. He shall enter therein the title of the action, with

brief notes under it, from time to time, of all papers filed, and proceedings had therein.

529. When there are three referees, or three arbitrators, all shall
meet, but two of them may do any act which might be done by all.

.._4.(.‘,[_ J.((_ /3*’!-1-l"+

530. The time within which an act is to be done, as provided in
this act, shall be computed by egcluding the first day and including
t_he_last. If the last day be Sunday, it shall be excluded.

See notes to Sec. 30 for service of summons.
1. Easton v. Chamberlin, 3 How. Pr.,412; Dayton v. Mclntyre, 3 Code R., 164; 5
How. Pr., 117 ; Taylor v. C'orbz'ere, 8 ib., 385.

2. A notice served on Saturday for Monday, is not a notice of two days.— Whipple
v. Williams, 4 How. Pr., 28.

531. An aiiidavit, notice, or other paper, Without the title of the
action or proceeding in which it is made, or with a detective title, shall

be as valid and effectual for any purpose, as if duly entitled, if it intelligibly refer to such action or proceeding.

See note to Sec. 517.

1. On a motion to vacate an order, where the aliidavits intelligibly refer to the action, an objection that the aliidavits are entitled in the wrong court will be disregarded.
Blake v. Lacy, 1 Code R., N. S., 406.

532. When a cause of action has arisen in another state, or in a
foreign country, and by the laws thereof an action thereon cannot
there be maintained against a person by reason of the lapse of time,
an action thereon shall not be maintained against him in this state,

except in favormof a citizen thereof, who has held the cause of action
from the time it accrued.

 

TITLE XVI.

OF PROCEEDINGS IN CIVIL CASES IN JUSTICES’ COURTS.

CHAPTER 1.

OF THE PARTIES AND THE TIME AND PLACE OF COMMENCING
ACTIONS IN JUSTICES’ COURTS.
9?.
mp 533. The provisions of title one of this act, as to parties to actions,

shall be applicable to actions of which a justice’s court has jurisdiction.

534. Parties in justices’ courts may prosecute or defend in person,
or by attorney ; and any person, on the request of a party, may act as
hisiattorney, except that the constable by whom the summons or jury
process was served, shall not appear or act on the trial in behalf of

either party.
535. [1853.] No person shall be held to answer to any summons

issued against him from .a justice’s court, in a civil action, in any
township or city other than the one in which he shall reside, except in
the cases following:

1st. When there shall be no justice’s court for the township or city
in which the defendant may reside, or no justice competent to act on
the case ;

2d. When two or.more persons shall be jointly, or jointly and severally bound in any debt or contract, or otherwise jointly liable in the
same action, and reside in dilferent townships or different cities of the
same county, or in different counties, the plaintifff may prosecute his
action in a justice’s court of the township or city in which any of the
debtors or other persons liable may reside;

3d. In cases of injury to the person, or to real or personal property,
the plaintifff may prosecute his action in the township or city where the
injury was committed; ‘

4th. When personal property unjustly taken or detained is claimed,
or damages therefore are claimed, the plaintifff may bring his action in

any township or city in which the property may be found, or in which
the property was taken;

5th. When the defendant is a non-resident of the county, he may
be sued in any township or city wherein he may be found;

6th. When a person has contracted to perform any obligation at a
particular place, and resides in another township or city, he may be
sued in the township or city in which such obligation is to be performed, or in which he resides ;

7th. When the foreclosure of a mortgage or the enforcement of a
lien upon personal property is sought by the action, the plaintifff may
sue in the township or city where the property is situated;

8th. Any person or persons residing in the city of San Francisco,

- may be held to answer to any summons issued against him or them

from the court of a justice for any township within the corporate limits
of the city of San Francisco, in any actionor proceeding whereof justices of the peace of the city or county of San Francisco have or may
have jurisdiction by law; provided, nothing herein shall be construed
to allow any justice of said city or county to hold a court in any other
township than the one for which he shall have been elected.

536. Judgment upon confession may be entered up in any justice’s F
court in the state, specified in the confession.

1. A confession for an amount exceeding the jurisdiction, is a nullity.—Grz'swold v.

Sheldon, 1 Code R., N. S., 261 ; Daniels v. Hin/cston, 5 How. Pr., 322; F illert _v. Engler, 7 Cal., July T. 2. A confession of judgment before a justice who is father-in-law to the plaintifff, is
illegal on the ground of relationship.—C'lzapz'n v. Clzurchill, 12 How. Pr., 367.

537. Justices’ courts shall have jurisdiction of an action upon the
voluntary appearance of the parties without summons, without regard

to their residences, or the place where the cause of action arose, or
the subject matter of the action may exist.

CHAPTER II. I '

SUMMONS, ARREST, ATTACHMENT AND CLAIM OF PERSONAL
' PROPERTY.

538. Actions in justices’ courts shall be commenced by filing a.

copy of the account, note, bill, bond, or instrument upon which the
action is brought, or a concise statement in writing of the cause of action, and the issuance of a summons thereon, or by the voluntary appearance and pleadings of the parties without summons. In the latter
case the action shall be deemed commenced at the time of appearance.

539. When a guardian is necessary, he shall be appointed by the

justice, as follows :
1st. If the infant be plaintifff, the appointment shall be made before the summons is issued, upon the application of the infant, if he be
of the age of fourteen years or upwards ; if under that age, upon the
application of some relative or friend. The consent in writing of the
guardian to be appointed, and to be responsible for costs, if he fail in
the action, shall be first filed with the justice.

2d. If the infant be defendant, the guardian shall be appointed at
the time the summons is returned, or before the pleadings. It shall
be the right of, the infant to nominate his own guardian, if the infant
‘be over fourteen years of age, and the proposed guardian be present
and consent in writing to be appointed. Otherwise, the justice may

appoint any suitable person who gives such consent.

540. The summons shall be addressed to the defendant by name,
or if his name be unknown, by a fictitious name ; and shall summon
him to appear before the justice at his office, naming its township or
city, and at a time specified therein, to answer the complaint of the
plaintifff, for a cause of action therein described, in general terms, sufficient to apprise the defendant of the nature of the claim against him;
and in an action for money or damages, shall state the amount for
which the plaintifff will take judgment, if the defendant fail to appear
and answer. It shall be subscribed by the justice before whom it is

returnable.

541. [1854.] The time mentioned in the summons for the appearance of the defendant and the time of service shall be as follows:

1st. When the summons is accompanied with an order to arrest the
defendant, it shall be returnable immediately;

2d. When the defendant is not a resident of the township or city,
or when the plaintifff is not a resident, it shall be returnable not more
than two days from its date, and shall be served at least one day before

the time for appearance.

3d. In all other cases, it shall be returnable in not less than two,
nor more than ten days from its date, and shall be served at least two
days before the time for appearance.

1. 3d. A summons issued on February 3d and returnable on the 14th, is irregular,
being more than ten days.-‘—Dez'deshez'mer v. Brown, 7 Cal., Oct. T.

542. The summons shall be served by the sheriff or a constable of
the county, as follows:

1st. If the action be against a corporation, by a delivery of a copy
to the president or other head of the corporation, or to the secretary,
cashier or managing agent thereof ; or when no such oiiicer resides in
the county, to a director resident therein ;

2d. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years, by delivery
of a. copy to such minor, and also to his father, mother, or guardian ;

or if there be none within the county, then to any person having the
care or control of such minor, or with whom he resides, or in whose

service he is;
3d. If against a person judicially declared to be of unsound mind,
or incapable of conducting his own affairs, and for whom a guardian
has been appointed, by delivery of a copy to such guardian ;
4th. In all other cases, by delivery of a copy to the defendant
personally.
1. The constable may appoint deputies.—Ta_ylor v. Brown, 4 Cal., 188.

2. To give a justice jurisdiction and to authorize him to render judgment against
an absent defendant, there must be a return showing personal service of process.Manning v. Johnson, 7 Barb., 457.

3. The return of a constable certifying the time and manner of his serving a summons upon the defendant, is presumptive evidence of what it states.— Wheeler v. New

York Q‘ Harlem R. R. ‘Co., 24 Barb., 414.

543. [1854.]' When the person upon whom the service is to be
made resides out of the state, or has departed from the state, or cannot, after due diligence, be found within the state, or conceals himself
to avoid the service of summons, and the fact shall appear, by afIidavit, to the satisfaction of the justice, and it shall, in like manner, appear that a cause of action exists against the defendant in respect to
whom the service is to be made, the justice shall grant an order that
the service be made by the publication of the summons. The order
shall direct the publication to be made in a newspaper, to be designated as most likely to give notice to the person to be served, and for
such length of time as may be deemed reasonable, at least one week :

provided, that a publication against a defendant residing out of the
’ state or absent therefrom, shall not be less than three months. The

service of summons shall be deemed complete at the expiration of the

time prescribed by the order of publication; the justice shall also direct a copy of the summons to be forthwith deposited in the post office,
A _direc_t_ed to the person to be served, at his place of residence.

544. An order to arrest the defendant may be endorsed on a. summons issued by the justice, and the defendant may be arrested thereon
by the sheriff or constable, at the time of serving the summons, and
brought before the justice, and there detained until duly discharged
in the following cases, arising after the passage of this act:

1st. In an action for the recovery of money or damages, on a cause
of action arising upon contract, express or implied, when the defendant is about to depart from the state, with intent to defraud his creditors ; or where the action is for a willful injury to the person, or for
taking, detaining or injuring personal property;

2d. In an action for a fine or penalty, or for money or property embezzled, or fraudulently misapplied, or converted to his own use by an
attorney, factor, broker, agent or clerk, in the course of his employment as such, or by any other person in a fiduciary capacity;

3d. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in contracting
the debt, or incurring the obligation for which the action is brought;

4th. When the defendant has removed, concealed, or disposed of
his property, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his creditors.
But no female shall be arrested in any action. T

1. The provisions of arrest for willful injury to person or character, are in conflict
with the constitution.—E;r parts Prader, 6 Cal., 239.

2. If the warrant is not valid on its face, the justice who issues and the officers who
execute it, are liableto the party arrested.— Williams v.. Garrett, 12 How. Pr., 456.

545. Before an order for an arrest shall be made, the party applying
shall prove to the satisfaction of the justice, by the affidavit of himself
or some other person, the facts on which the application is founded.
The plaintifff shall also execute and deliver to the justice a written undertaking, with two or more sureties, to the effect that if the defendant
recover judgment, the plaintifff will pay to him all costs that may be
awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he may sustain by
reason of the arrest, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which shall be at least two hundred dollars.

546. The defendant, immediately upon being arrested, shall be
taken to the oiiice of the justice who made the order, and if he be absent or unable to try the action, or if it be made to appear to him by
the atiidavit of the defendant, that he is a material witness in the action, the oilicer shall immediately take the defendant before the next
justice of the city or township, who shall take cognizance of the action,
and proceed thereon, as if the summons had been issued and the order
of arrest made by him.

See Sec. 582.

547. The oiiicer making an arrest shall immediately give notice
thereof to the plaintifff, or his attorney or agent, and endorse on the
summons, and subscribe a certificate, stating the time of serving the
same, the time of the arrest, and of his giving notice to the plaintifff.

548. The officer making the arrest shall keep the defendant in
custody until duly discharged by order of the justice.

0 549. The defendant under arrest, on his appearance with the
officer, may demand a trial immediately ; and upon such demand being made, the trial shall not be delayed beyond three hours, except by
the trial of another action pending at the time ; or he may have an adjournment, and be discharged on giving bail, as provided in the next
section. An adjournment at the request of the plaintifff, beyond
three hours, shall discharge the defendant from arrest, but the action
may proceed, notwithstanding; and the defendant shall be subject to
arrest on the execution in the same manner as if he had not been so
discharged.

See Sec. 582.

550. If the defendant on his appearance demand an adjournment,
the same shall be granted on condition that he execute and file with
the justicexan undertaking, with two or more sufficient sureties, to be
approved by the justice, to the effect that he will render himself
amenable to the process of the court during the pendency of the action, and such as may be issued to enforce the judgment therein ; or
that the sureties will pay to the plaintifff the amount of any judgment
which he may recover in the action. On filing the undertaking specified in this section, the justice shall order the defendant to be dis, charged from custody.

551. [1858.] In an action upon a contract, express or implied,
made after the passage of this act, for the direct payment of money,
which contract is made or payable in this state, and is not secured by
mortgage upon real or personal property, the plaintifff, at the time of
issuing the summons, or at any time afterwards, may have the property of the defendant attached as security for the satisfaction of any
judgment that may be recovered, unless the defendant give security
to pay such judgment, in all cases specified in section one hundred and
twenty of this act (a).

552. [1858.] A writ to attach the property of the defendant shall
be issued by the justice, on receiving an affidavit by or on behalf of
the plaintifff, showing the same facts as are required to be shown by the
ajidavit specified in section one hundred and twenty-one of this act (a).

1. This section was not amended so as to authorize an attachment upon a contract
made prior to the passage of this act, or against non-residents, as in Sec. 120, prior to 1 858.

553. [1858.] Before issuing the writ, the justice shall require a
Written undertaking on the part of the plaintifff, with two or more stiflicient sureties, to the effect that, if the defendant recover judgment, or
if the attachment be dismissed, the plaintifff will pay all costs that may
be awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he may sustain

by reason of the attachment (a). , '

1. Proceedings on an attachment bond are void, if the justice takes the bond in an
amount exceeding his jurisdiction.—Benedict v. Bray, 2 Cal., 251.

554. The writ may be directed to the sheriff or any constable of
the county, and shall require him to attach and safely keep all the
property of the defendant in his county, not exempt from execution,
or so much thereof as may be sufficient to satisfy the p1aintiif’s demand,
the amount of which shall be stated in conformity with the complaint,
unless the defendant give him security by the undertaking of two sufficient sureties, in an amount suiiicient to satisfy such demand besides
costs; in which case, to take such undertaking.

.555. The sections of this act, from section one hundred and twentyfour, to section one hundred and forty-one, both inclusive, shall be applicable to attachments issued in justices’ courts, the word “ constable ”
being substituted for the word “ sheriff,” whenever the writ is directed
to a constable, and the word “justice ” being substituted for the word
“ judge.” 4,

556. The plaintifff in an action to recover the possession of personal
property, may, at the time of issuing the summons, or at any time
before answer, claim the delivery of such property to him, as provided
in this chapter.

557. When a delivery is claimed, an affidavit shall be made by the
plaintifff, or by some one in his behalf, showing:

1st. That the plaintifff is the owner of the property claimed, (particularly describing it,) or is lawfully entitled to the possession thereof;

2d. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant;

3d. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, according to his best
knowledge, information and belief;

4th. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or
fine, pursuant to statute, or seized under an execution or an attachment against the property of the plaintifff, or if seized, that it is by
statute exempt from such seizure ; and,

5th. The actual value of the property.

558. The justice shall thereupon, by an endorsement in writing
upon the affidavit, order the sheriff or a constable of the county, to take
the same from the defendant, and deliver it to the plaintifff, upon receiving the undertaking mentioned in the following section.‘

1. This section has not been amended so as to give the party or his attorney, the
authority to require the taking of the property as in Sec. 101.

559. Upon the receipt of the affidavit, and order, with a written
undertaking, executed by two or more sufficient sureties, approved by
the officer, to the effect that they are bound in double the value of the
property as stated in the affidavit for the prosecution of the action, for
the return of the property to the defendant if return thereof be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum, as may, for any
cause, he recovered against the plaintifff, the officer shall forthwith take

 
 

\

the property described in the affidavit, if it be in possession of the defendant, or his agent, and retain it in his custody. He shall also,
without delay, serve on the defendant a copy of the affidavit, order
and undertaking, by delivering the same to him personally if he can
be found within the county, or to his agent from whose possession the
property is taken, or if »neither can be found within the county, by
leaving them at the usual place of abode of either within the county, '
with some person of suitable age and discretion, or if neither have any
known place of abode within the county, by putting them into the
nearest post-oilice directed to the defendant.

560. The defendant may, within two days after the service of a
copy of the affidavit and undertaking, give notice to the oilicer that he
excepts to the sufliciency of the sureties ; if he fails to do so, he shall
be deemed to have waived all objection to them. When the defendant
excepts, the sureties shall justify on notice before the justice; and the

' officer shall be responsible for the sufficiency of the sureties until the

objection to them is either waived as above provided, or until they
justify. If the defendant except to the sureties, he cannot reclaim
the property as provided in the next section. A

561. At any time before the delivery of the property to the plaintifff, the defendant may, if he do not except to the sureties of the
plaintifff, require the return thereof, upon giving to the oilicer a written
undertaking executed by two or more suilicient sureties, to the effect
that they are bound in double the value of the property, as stated in
the affidavit of the plaintifff, for the delivery thereof to the plaintifff, if
such delivery be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum
as may for any cause be recovered against the defendant. If a return
of the property be not so required within two days after the taking and
service of notice to the defendant, it shall be delivered to the plaintiff,

except as provided in this chapter.

562. The defendant’s sureties, upon reasonable notice to the plaintifff, shall justify before the justice; and upon such justification, the
officer shall deliver the property to the defendant. The oilicer shall
be responsible for the defendant’s sureties until they justify, or until
the justification is completed or expressly waived, and may retain the
property until that time ; but if they, or others in their place, fail to

I
justify at the time appointed, he shall deliver the property to ‘the

plaintifff.

563. If the property or any part thereof, be concealed in a building or enclosure, the officer shall publicly demand its delivery, and if
it be not delivered, he shall cause the building or enclosure to be broken open, and take the property into his possession.

564. When the officer shall have taken property, as in this chapter
provided, he shall keep it in a secure place, and deliver it to the party
entitled thereto, upon receiving his lawful fees for taking, and his necessary expenses for keeping the same.

565. If the property taken be claimed by any other person than
the defendant or his agent, and such person make affidavit of his title
thereto, or right to the possession thereof, stating the grounds of such
title or right, and serve the same upon the officer, the oilicer shall not
be bound to keep the property, or deliver it to the plaintifff, unless the
plaintifff, on demand of him or his agent, indemnify the officer against
such claim, by an undertaking executed by two suilicient sureties, accompanied by their affidavits that they are each worth double the value
of the property as specified in the affidavit of the plaintifff, over and
above their debts and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from
execution, and are freeholders or householders of the county; and no
claim to such property by any other person than the defendant or his
agent shall be valid against the officer, unless so made.

566. The officer shall return the order and affidavit, with his proceedings thereon, to the justice, within five days after taking the
property mentioned therein.

567. The qualification of sureties on the several undertakings required by this chapter, shall be as follows :

1st. Each of them shall be a resident and householder, or freeholder, within.the county ;

2d. Each shall be worth double the amount stated in the undertaking over and above all his debts and liabilities, exclusive of property
exempt from execution.

568. For the purpose of justification, each of the sureties shall attend before the justice at the time mentioned in the notice, and may
be examined on oath, on the part of the adverse party, touching his
sufficiency, in such manner as the justice, in his discretion, may think
proper. The examination shall be reduced to writing and subscribed

by the sureties, if required.

569. If the justice find the sureties sufficient, he shall annex the
examination to the undertaking, endorse his allowance thereon, and
file the same, and the officer shall thereupon be exonerated from

liability.

CHAPTER III.

PLEADIN GS AND TRIAL.

570. The pleadings in justices’ courts shall be:
1st. The complaint by the plaintifff stating the cause of action;
2d. The answer by the defendant, stating the ground of the defense.

571. The pleading shall be in writing, and verified by the oath of
the party, his agent or attorney, when the action is :

1st. For the foreclosure of any mortgage or the enforcement of any
lien on personal property;

2d. For a forcible or unlawful entry upon, or a forcible or unlawful
detention of lands, tenements, or other possessions ;

3. To recover possession of a “ mining claim.” In other cases the

pleading may be oral or in writing.

1 . 2d. The rule that a penal statute must be declared upon by the party seeking recovery under it, does not apply to pleadings in a justice’s court.—0’ Callaghan v. Booth,
6 Cal., 63; Hart v. Moon, ib.. 161. 2. This jurisdiction is not unconstitutional.—1b.

572. When the pleadings are oral, the substance of them shall be
entered by the justice in his docket; when in writing, they shall be
filed in his oiiice, and a reference made to them in the docket. Pleadings shall not be required to be in any particular form, but shall be
such as to enable a person of common understanding to know what is
intended.

6
1. It is not the policy of the law to confine parties to any nice strictness in pleading.
Cronise v. Carghill, 4 Cal., 120.

573. The complaint shall state in a plain and direct manner, the
facts constituting the cause of action.

574. The answer may contain a denial of any of the material facts
stated in the complaint, which the defendant believes to be untrue, and
also’ a _statement, in a plain and direct manner, of any other facts constituting a defense, or a counterclaim upon which an action may be
brought by the defendant against the plaintifff in a justice’s court.

1. The objection to the jurisdiction on the ground of excess of value of the subject
in controversy, is properly taken by answer, and should be determined before proceeding to hear the merits of the action.—Small v. Gwinn, 6 Cal., 447.

575. A statement in an answer that the party has not sullicient
knowledge or information, in respect to a particular allegation in the
previous pleading of the adverse party to form a belief, shall be deemed
equivalent to a denial.

576. When the cause of action or counterclaim arises upon an account or instrument for the payment of money only, it shall be sufficient for the party to deliver a copy of the account or instrument to

the court, and to state that there is due to him thereupon, from the ‘

adverse party, a specified sum, which he claims to recover or set-off.
The court may, at the time of the pleading, require that the original
account or instrument be exhibited to the inspection of the adverse
party, and a copy to be furnished ; or if it be not so exhibited and a copy
furnished, may prohibit its being afterwards given in evidence.

1. Where, in an action on contract, the plaintifff recovers less then fifty [$200] dollars, but extinguishes a counterclaim set up in the answer which exceeds that amount,
neither party is entitled to costs.—Kalt v. Lignot, 3 Abbott, 33, 190.

577. [1854.] If the plaintifff annex to his complaint, or file with
the justice at the time of issuing the summons, a copy of the promissory note, bill of exchange, or other written obligation for the payment
of money, upon which the action is brought, the defendant shall be
deemed to admit the genuineness of the signatures of the makers, endorsers, or assignors thereof, unless he specifically deny the same in
his answer, and verify the answer by his oath.

578. Either party may object to a pleading of his adversary, or to
any part thereof, that it is not suliiciently explicit to enable him to understand it, or that it contains no cause of action or defense, although
it be taken as true. If the court deem the objection well founded, it
shall order the pleading to be amended, and if the party refuse to
amend, the defective pleading shall be disregarded.

1. On demurrer to a complaint in an action in a justice’s court, if the objection is
deemed well taken, the judge should order the pleading to be amended, and if it is not
amended, should disregard it.— Glasse v. Keulsen, 3 Abbott, 100.

579. A variance between the proof on the trial and the allegations
in a pleading, shall be disregarded as immaterial, u1rl_e§.s the court be
satisfied that the adverse party has been misled to his prejudice
thereby.

580. The pleadings may be amended at any time before the trial,
to supply a deficiency or omission, when by such amendment substantial justice will be promoted. If the amendment be made after the
issue, and it be made to appear to the satisfaction of the court, by
oath, that an adjournment is necessary-to the adverse party in consequence of such amendment, an adjournment shall be granted. The
court may also, in its discretion, require as a condition of an amendment, the payment of costs to the adverse party, to be fixed by the
court, not exceeding twventy dollars; but such payment shall not be
required unless an adjournment is made necessary by the amendment;
nor shall an amendment be allowed after a witness is sworn on the
trial, when an adjournment thereby will be made necessary.

4. Where an action is commenced before a justice, and the answer of defendant interposcs a plea of title, and an action. for the same cause is commenced in an upper
court, the cause must be governed by the rules of pleading and practice by which other
actions are conducted in this court.—Jewett v. Jewett, 6 How. Pr., 185. ‘

581. The parties shall not_ be at libertyto give evidence by which
the question of title to real property shall be raised on the trial before
a justice; and if it appear from the plaintiii"s own showing on the
trial, or from the answer of the defendant, verified by his oath, or that
of his agent or attorney, that the determination of the action will
necessarily involve the decision of a question of title to real property,
the justice shall suspend all further proceedings in the action, and certify the pleadings ; or, if the pleadings be oral, a transcript of the same
from his docket to the district court of the county; and from the time
of filing such pleadings or transcript with the county clerk, the district
court shall have over the action the same jurisdiction as if it were
originally commenced therein. Provided, that when the pleadings or
transcript are certified to the district court upon the answer of the
defendant, he shall file an undertaking with two or more sufficient sureties, to be approved by the justice, to the effect that they will pay all
costs of the action, if it be decided against him by the district court.

1 . Justices of the peace have no jurisdiction to try a cause where there is an alleged
injury arising out of a diversion of water from the natural or artificial channel in which
it is conducted.—Hill v. Newman, 5 Cal., 445.

2. Justices have no jurisdiction in actions to recover damages for injury to a mining
claim, or for its dctention.— Van Etten v. Jilson, 6 Cal., 19.

3. Occupancy of a reservation by Indians is a title upon which a justice of the peace
cannot pass in an action.—Smz'th v. Mitten, 13 How. Pr., 325. 582. [1853.] If at any time before the trial it appear, to the satisfaction of the justice before whom the action is brought, by affidavit
of either party, that such justice is a material witness for either party,
or if either party make affidavit that he has reason to believe, and does
believe, that he cannot have a fair and impartial trial before such justice, by reason of the interest, prejudice, or bias of the justice, the
action shall be transferred to some other justice of the same or neighboring township; and in case a jury be demanded, and affidavit of
either party is made, that he cannot have a fair and impartial trial, on
account of the bias or prejudice of the citizens of the township against

him, the action shall be transferred to some other justice of the peace

in the county. The justice to whom an action may be transferred by
the provisions of this section, shall have and exercise the same jurisdiction over the action as if it had been originally commenced before
him. The justice ordering the transfer of the action to another justice, shall immediately transmit to the latter, on payment of costs, all
the papers in the action, together with a certified transcript from
his docket, of the proceedings therein.

Upon the return day of the summons, if a jury be required, or if the
justice be actually engaged in other oiiicial business, he may adjourn
the trial without the consent of either party, as follows : ,

1st. When a party who is not a resident of the county is in attendance, the adjournment not to exceed twenty-four hours ; when the defendant in attendance is under arrest, the adjournment not to exceed
three hours‘;

2d. In-other cases not to exceed five days.

‘ See Sec. 546.

1. When the justice is interested in the event of the suit, the statute requires he
should transfer it to another justice.—Larue v. Gaslcins, 5 Cal., 507.

2. Where the plaintifff discovers that the justice and defendant are related, and on
that ground withdraws the suit, the justice cannot render judgment for his costs.—Ra.ndall v. Hall, Lalor’s supp., 239.

583. [185-4.] The trial may be adjourned by consent, or upon application of either party, without the consent of the other, for a period
not exceeding ten days, (except as provided in the next section,) as
follows:

1st. The party asking the adjournment shall, if required by his adversary, prove by his own oath, or otherwise, that he cannot, for want
of material testimony, which he expects to procure, safely proceed to
trial, and shall show in what respect the testimony expected is material, and that he has used due diligence to procure it, and has been
unable to do so ;

2d. The party asking the adjournment shall also, if required by the
adverse party, consent that the testimony of any witness of such padverse party, who is in attendance, be then taken by deposition before
the justice, which shall accordingly be done, and the testimony so taken
may be read on the trial, with the same effect, and subjectto the same
objections as if the witness were produced. But such objections shall
{:4} 7:-2.2,(le at the time of taking the deposition;

3d. The court may also require the moving party to state upon affidavit the evidence which he expects to obtain, and if the adverse party
thereupon admit that such evidence would be given, and that it be considered as actually given on the trial, or offered and overruled as improper, the trial shall not be postponed.

I

584. [1854.] An adjournment may be had, eith:-r at the time of
joining issue, or at any subsequent time, to which the case may stand
adjourned, on application of either party, for a period longer than
ten days, but not to exceed four months, from the time of the return
of summons, upon proof by the oath of the party, or otherwise, to the
satisfaction of the justice, that such party cannot be ready for trial before the time to which he desires an adjournment, for want of material
evidence, particularly describing it, and that the delay has not been
made necessary by any act of negligence on his part since the action
was commenced; that he has used due diligence to procure the evidence, and has been unable to do so, and that he expects to procure
the evidence at the time stated by him: provided, that if the adverse
party admit that such evidence would be given, and consent that it
may be considered as given on the trial, or offered and overruled as
improper, the adjournment shall not be had.

585. No adjournment shall be granted for a period longer than ten
days, upon the application of either party, except upon condition that
such party file an undertaking, with sureties, to be approved by the
justice, to the effect that they will pay to the opposite the amount of
any judgment which may be recovered against the party applying.

586. If the plaintifff fail to appear at the return day of the summons, the action shall be dismissed. If the defendant fail to appear at
the return day of the summons, or if either party fail to attend at a
day to which the trial has been adjourned, or fail to make the neces-'
sary pleading or proof on his part, the case may, nevertheless, proceed
at the request of the adverse party, and judgment shall be given in
conformity with the pleadingsand proofs. ’ l ~ '

587. A _trial by jury shall be demanded at _the time of joining_

issue, and shall be deemed waived if neither party then demand it.

When demanded, the trial of the case shall be adjourned until a time
‘ Q

and place fixed for the return of the jury. If neither party desire an
adjournment, the time and place shall be determined by the justice,
and shall be on the same day, or within the next two days. The 
shall be summoned upon an order of the justice, from the citizens of
the city or township, and not from the bystanders.

1. Where a party demands a jury trial in a justice’s court, and neglects to appear
on the adjourned day, the justice may proceed and hear the cause without a jury.—Kilpatrick v. Carr, 3 Abbott, 117.

588. At the time appointed for the trial, the justice shall proceed
té call, from the jurors summoned, the names of the persons to constitute the jury for the trial of the issue. The jury, by consent of the
parties, may consist of any number not more than twelve nor less than

three.

589. If a sufiicient number of competent and indifferent jurors do
not attend, the justice shall direct others to be summoned from the vicinity, and not from the bystanders, sufficient to complete the jury.

590. Either party may challenge the jurors. The challenges shall
be either peremptory, or for cause. Each party shall be entitled to
three peremptory challenges. Either party may challenge for cause,
on any grounds set forth in section one hundred and sixty-two. Challenges for cause shall be tried by the justice in a summary manner,
who may examine the juror challenged, and witnesses.

.’ CHAPTER IV.
JUDGMENT AND EXECUTION.

591. Judgment that the action be dismissed without prejudice to
a new action, may be entered with costs in the following cases:

1st. When the plaintifff voluntarily dismisses the action before it is
finally submitted;

2d. When he fails to appear at the time specified in the summons,
or upon adjournment, or within one hour thereafter;

3d. When it is objected at the trial, and appears by the evidence,
that the action is brought in the wrong county, or township, or city;
but if the objection be taken and overruled, it shall be cause only of

I

reversal on appeal, and shall not otherwise invalidate the judgment ; if
not taken at the trial, it shall be deemed waived, and shall not be
cause of reversal.

592. When the defendant fails to appear and answer, judgment
shall be given for the plaintid, as follows:

1st. When a copy of the account, note, bill, or other obligation upon
which the action is brought, was filed with the justice at the time the
summons was issued, judgment shall be given without further evidence,
for the sum specified in the summons;

2d. In other cases the justice shall bear the evidence of the plaintill‘, and render judgment for such sum only as shall appear by the evidence to be just; but in no case exceeding the amount specified in the
summons.

1. Where a justice, by statements which are untrue, that defendant is not intending
to appear, is induced to take up a cause at an unusual time, c. g., while engaged in the
trial of another cause, a judgment rendered by him in favor of the plaintifff will be reversed.—Beach v. Mcamn, 4 Abbott, 18.

593. Upon issue joined, if a jury trial be not demanded, the justice shall hear the evidence, and decide all questions of fact and of
law, and render judgment accordingly.

594. [1854.] Upon a verdict, the justice shall immediately render judgment accordingly. When the trial is by the justice, judgment shall be entered immediately after the close of the trial, if the
defendant has been arrested and is still in custody ; in other cases it
shall be entered within four days after the close of the trial ; if the

. action be on contract against two or more defendants, and the summons is served on one or more, but not on all, the judgment shall be
entered up only against those who were served, if the contract be a
several or a joint and several contract ; but if the contract be a joint
contract only, the judgment shall be entered up against all the defendants, but shall only be enforced against the joint property of all, and
the separate property of the defendants served.

595. When the amount found due to either party exceeds the sum
for which the justice is authorized to enter judgment, such party may
remit the excess, and judgment may be rendered for the residue.

596. If the defendant, at any time before the trial, offer in writing
to allow judgment‘ to be taken against him for a specified sum, the
plaintifff may immediately have judgment therefore, with the costs then
accrued; but if he do not accept such offer before the trial, and fail
to recover in the action a sum equal to the offer, he shall not ‘recover
costs, but costs shall be adjudged against him, and if he recover, deducted from his recovery. But the offer and failure to accept it shall
not be given in evidence to affect the recovery otherwise than as to
costs, as above provided.

1. Ifthe tender is made after a suit is brought, it must be accompanied with the
costs then accrue<1.—People v. Banker, 8 How. Pr., 258.

597. When a judgment is rendered in a case where the defendant
is subject to arrest and imprisonment thereon, it shall be so stated in
the judgment and entered in the docket.

598. When the prevailing party is entitled to costs by this chapter, the justice shall add their amount to the verdict; or in case of a
failure of the plaintifff to recover, or in case of a dismissal of the action,
shall enter up judgment in favor of the defendant for the amount of
such costs.

599. [1854.] The justice, on demand of the party in whose favor
judgment is rendered, shall give him a transcript thereof, which may
be filed and docketed in the office of the clerk of the county where the
judgment was rendered. The time of the receipt of the transcript by

the county clerk, shall be noted by him thereon, and entered in the
docket ; and from that time executions may be issued by the county
clerk on such judgments to the sheriff of any other county of the state,
in the same manner as upon judgments recovered in the higher courts.
All process upon judgments recovered in justices’ courts, to°be executed within the same county, shall be issued by the justice or his successors in office. No judgment rendered by a justice of the peace
shall create any lien upon any lands of the defendant, unless a transcript of such judgment, "certified by the justice, shall be filed and recorded in the office of the recorder. When such transcript is to be
filed in any other county than that in which the justice resides, such
transcript shall be accompanied with the certificate of the county clerk
as to the oiiicial character of the justice. When so filed and recorded

in the oiiice of the recorder for any county, such judgment shall constitute a lien upon, and bind the lands and tenements of the judgment
debtor, situated in the county where such transcript may be filed and
recorded in favor of such judgment creditor, as if such judgment had
been rendered in the district court of such county.

600. Execution for the enforcement of a judgment in a justice’s
court may be issued, on the application of the party entitled thereto,
at any time within five years from the entry of judgment.

1. Unless an execution issue within five years, the judgment is void ; nor will the
loss of the justice’s docket prevent the time from running.—Whz'te v. Clark, 7 Cal.,
Oct. T.

601. The execution, when issued by a justice, shall be directed to
the sheriff or to a constable of the county, and subscribed by the justice by whom the judgment was rendered, or by his successor in office,
and shall bear date the day of its delivery to the officer tobe executed.
It shall intelligibly refer to the judgment by stating the names of the
parties, and the name of the justice before whom, and of the county,
and the township or city where, and at the time when, it was rendered; the amount of judgment, if it be for money; and if less than the
Whole is due, the true amount due thereon. It shall contain, in like
cases, similar directions to the sheriff or constable as are required by
the provisions of Title VII, of this act, in an execution to the sheriff.

602. [1854.] The sheriff or constable to whom the execution is
directed, shall proceed to execute the same in the same manner as the
sheriff is required by the provisions of Title VII, of this act, to proceed upon executions directed to him; and the constable, when the
execution is directed to him, shall be vested for that purpose with all
the powers of the sheriff' ; and after issuing an execution, and either
before or after its return, (if the same be returned unsatisiied either
in whole or in part,) the judgment creditor shall be entitled to an order from the justice, requiring the judgment debtor to attend at a time
to be designated in the order, and answer concerning his property before such justice, and the attendance of such debtor may be enforced
by the justice. On his attendance, such debtor may be examined
under oath concerning his property; and any person alleged to have
in his hands property, monies, effects or credits of the judgment debtor,

may also be required to attend and be examined, and the justice may

‘ order any property in the hands of the, judgment debtor, or any other

person, not exempt from execution, belonging to such debtor, to be
applied towards the satisfaction of the judgment, and the justice may
enforce such order by imprisonment until complied with ; but no judgment debtor or other person shall be required to attend before the justice out of the county in which he resides.

CHAPTER V.
GENERAL PROVISIONS.

603. [1853, 1854.] Those provisions of this act, which are referred to in this title, and no other, shall, in addition to the provisions embraced in this title, be applicable to justices’ courts and proceedings
therein.

604. [1855.] Every justice shall keep a book denominated a
“ docket,” in which he shall enter:

1st. The title of every action or proceeding ; p

2d. The object of the action or proceeding, and if a. sum of money
be claimed, the amount of the demand ; _

3d. The date of the summons, and the time of its retum; and if an
order to arrest the defendant be made, or a writlof attachment be issued, a statement of these facts ;

4th. The time when the parties or either of them appear, or their
non-appearance, if default be’ made ; a minute of the pleadings and
motions ; if in writing, referring to them; if not in writing, a concise
statement of the material parts of the pleading, and of all motions
made during the trial by either party, and his decisions thereon ;

5th. Every adjournment, stating on whose application, whether on
oath, evidence, or consent, and to what time;

6th. The demand for-a trial by jury, when the same is made, and
by whom made ; the order for the jury, and the time appointed for the
trial and return of the jury;

7th. The names of the jury who appear and are _sworn_; the names
of all witnesses sworn, and at whose request;

8th. The verdict of the jury, and when received; if the jury disagree, and are discharged, the fact of such disagreement and discharge ; .

9th. The judgment of the court, specifying the costs included, and
the time when rendered ; .

10th. The issuing of the execution, when issued, and to whom; the
renewals thereof, if any, and when made; and a statement of any
money paid to the justice, and when, and by whom ;

11th. The receipt of a notice of appeal, if any be given, and of the
appeal bond, if any filed. °

605. The several particulars of the last section specified shall be
entered under the title of the action to which they relate, and at the
time when they occur. Such entries in a. justice’s docket, or a transcript thereof, certified by the justice or his successor in office, shall
be primary evidence to prove the facts so stated therein.

606. A justice shall keep an alphabetical index to his docket, in
which shall be entered the names of the parties to each judgment, with
a reference to the page of entry. The names of the plaintifffs shall be

entered in the index, in the alphabetical order of the first letter of the
family names.

607. It shall be the duty of every justice, upon the expiration of
his term of office, to deposit with his successor his oilicial dockets, as
well his own as those of his predecessors, which may be in his custody,
to be kept as public records. If the oilice of a justice become vacant
by his death, or removal from the township or city, or otherwise, before his successor is elected and qualified, the dockets in possession of
such justice shall be deposited with the county clerk of the county, to
be by him delivered to the successor in office of the justice.

608. [1855.] Any justice with whom the docket of his predecessor is deposited, may issue execution or other process, upon a judgment there entered and unsatisfied, in the same manner and with the
same effect as the justice ‘by whom the judgment was entered might
have done. In case of the creation of a new county, or the change
of the boundary between two counties, any justice into whose hands
the docket of a justice formerly acting as such within the same territory may come, shall, for the purposes of this section, be considered
the successor of said former justice. '

Q

609. The justice elected to fill a vacancy shall be deemed the suc- cessor of the justice whose office became vacant before the expiration

of a full term. When a full term expires, the same or another person elected to take oilige in the same township, or city, from that time
shall be deemed the successor.

610. When two or more justices are equally entitled under the last
section to be deemed the successors in office of a justice, the county
judge shall, by a certificate, subscribed by him and filed in the office
of the county clerk, designate which justice shall be the successor of a
justice going out of office, or whose office has become vacant.

611. The summons, execution, and every other paper made or
issued by a justice, except a subpoena, shall be filled up without a blank
‘left to be filled by another, otherwise it shall be void.

612. In case of the sickness, or other disability, or necessary absence of a justice on a return of a summons, or at the time appointed
for atrial, another justice of the same township or city may, at his request, attend in his behalf, ,and shall thereupon become vested with
the power, for the time being, of the justice before whom the summons
was returnable. In that case the proper entry of the proceedings before the attending justice, subscribed by him, shall be made in the
docket of the justice before whom the summons was returnable. If
the case be adjourned, the justice before whom the summons was returnable, may resume jurisdiction.

613. A justice may, at the request of a party, and on being 3atisfied that it is expedient, specially depute any discreet person of suitable age, and not interested in the action, to serve a summons or execution with or without an order to arrest the defendant, or with or
without a writ of attachment. Such deputation shall be in writing on
the process.

1. The constable may appoint deputies.—Ta_z/lor v. Brown, 4 Cal., 188.

614. The person so deputed shall have the authority of a constable in relation to the service, execution and return of such process, and
shall be subject to the same obligations.

615. A constable, notwithstanding the expiration of his term of

office, may proceed and complete the execution of all final. process
which he has begimto execute, in the same manner as if he still continued in oilice, and his sureties shall be liable to the same extent.

616. A justice may punish as for contempt, persons guilty of the
following acts, and no other:

1st. Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior towards the justice while holding the court, tending to interrupt the due course of a

trial, or other judicial proceeding ;

2d. A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct, or ‘violent disturb- ‘

ance in the presence of the justice, or in the immediate vicinity of the
court held by him, tending to interrupt the due course of a trial, or
other judicial proceeding ;
_ 3d. Disobedience or resistance to the execution of a lawful order or
process, made or issued by him ;

4th. Disobedience to a subpoena duly served, or refusing to be
sworn, or answer as a witness ;

5th. Rescuing any person or property in the custody of any officer,
by virtue of an order or process of the court held by him.

617. When a contempt is committed in the immediate view and
presence of the justice, it may be punished summarily, for which an
order shall be made reciting the facts, as occurring in such immediate
view and presence, adjudging that the person proceeded against is
thereby guilty of a contempt, and that he be punished as therein prescribed. When the contempt is not committed in the immediate view
and presence of the justice, a warrant of arrest may be issued by such
justice, on which the person so guilty may be arrested and brought before the justice immediately, When an opportunity to be heard in his
defense or excuse shall be given. The justice may thereupon discharge him, or may convict him of the offense. A justice may punish
for contempts by line or imprisonment, or both ; such fine not to_exceed in any case one hundred dollars, and such imprisonment one

day.

618. The conviction, specifying particularly the offense and the
judgment thereon, shall be entered by the justice in his docket.

619. Justices of the peace may issue subpoenas in any action or

proceeding in the courts held by them, and final process on any judgment recovered therein, to any part of the county.

62.0. Justices of the peace may issue commissions to take the depositions of witnesses out of this state, and settle interrogatories to be
annexed thereto, and direct the manner in which the commissions
shall be returned. The provisions of Title XI of this act, so far as
the same are consistent with the jurisdiction and powers of justices’

courts, shall be applicable to justices’ courts, and to actions and proceedings therein.

621. In actions respecting “ mining claims,” proof shall be admitted of the customs, usages, or regulations established and in force at
the bar or diggings embracing such claim ; and such customs, usages,

or regulations, when not in conilict with the constitution and laws of
this state, shall govern the decision of the action.

622. A new trial may be granted by the justice, on motion, Within
ten days after the entry of judgment, for any one of the following
causes: _

1st. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not have
guarded against;

2d. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under the
influence of passion; or,

3d. Insuiliciency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other decision; '

4th. Newly discovered evidence material for the party making the
application, which he could not with reasonable diligence have discovered and produced at the time.

623. The application shall be made upon aliidavit and notice. The
affidavit shall be filed with the justice, with a statement of the grounds

upon which the party intends to rely. The adverse party may use

counter affidavits on the motion, provided they be filed one day previous to the hearing of the motion.

_-‘rt-V ::t

624. [1853, 1854.] Any party dissatisfied with a judgment rendered in a justice’s court, may appeal therefrom to the county court of
the county, at any time witl_1_in thirty days after the rendition of the judgment. The appeal shall be taken by filing a notice of appeal with the
justice, and serving a copy on the adverse party. The notice shall
state whether the appeal is taken from the wholeor a part of the judg- ..a..._

 

ment, and if: from a part, what part, and whether the _app_e_al _is taken
on questions of law or fact, or both.

1. Service on the attorney is deemed service on the adverse party.— Welton v. Garibaldi, 6 Cal., 245 ; Coulter v. Stark, 7 Cal., Jan. T. ; Coombs v. Stark, 7 Cal., ib.

2. A mistake in the notice that the judgment was entered on the 4th of July, instead
of the 2d July, is not material.-—Sherman v. Rolberg, 8 Cal., Jan. T.

3. If the party against whom judgment is rendered, consents that it be opened and
the cause tried, a subsequent judgment rendered against such party will be regular.Scranton v. Levy, 4 Abbott, 21.

4. Where the notice does not state the grounds upon which the appeal is founded,
the county court is bound to affirm the judgm8nt.—Derby v. Hannin, 5 Abbott, 150.

625. [1853, 1854.] When a party appeals to the county court on
questions of law alone, he shall, W'i_thin, ten days after the rendition of
judgment, prepare a statement of the case, and file the same with the
justice. The statement shall contain the grounds upon which the party
intends to rely on the appeal, and so much of the evidence as may be
necessary to explain the grounds, and no more. Within ten days after
he receives notice that the statement is filed, the adverse party, if
dissatisfied with the same, may file amendments; the proposed statement and amendments shall be settled by the justice ; and if no
amendments be filed, the original statement shall be adopted. The
statement thus adopted, or as settled by the justice, with a copy
of the docket of the justice, and all motions filed with him by the
parties during the trial, and the notice of appeal, shall be used on the
hearing of the appeal before the county court.

626. [1854.] When a party appeals to the county court on questions of fact, or on questions of both law and fact, no statement need
be made, but the action shall be tried anew in the county court.

627. [1853, 1855.] Upon receiving the notice of appeal, and on

payment of the fees of the justice, and filing an undertaking as required in the next section, the justice shall,  five days, transmit

to the clerk of the county court: if the appeal be on questions of.law
alone, a certified copy of his docket, the statement as admitted or as
settled, the notice of appeal, and the undertaking filed ; or ifv the ap-g
peal be on questions of fact or both law and fact, a certified copy of
his docket, the pleadings, all notices, motions and other papers filed in
the cause, the notice of appeal and the undertaking filed; and the
justice may be compelled by the county court, by an order entered
upon motion, to transmit such papers, and may be fined for £glect or refusal to transmit the same. A certified copy of such order
may be served on the justice, by the party or his attorney. In the
county court, either party shall have the benefit of all legal objections
made in the justice’s court,

1 . A justice of the peace may refuse to send up the transcript of a cause tried by

him, unless all his legal fees be first paid by the appel1ant.—McDermott v. Douglass, 5
Cal., 89; Bray v. Redman, 6 Cal., 287.

2. The appeal will not be dismissed because the justice fails to send up the notice
on appeal. An order should be entered, compelling him ,to do so.—Sherman v. Rolberg,
8 Cal., Jan. T.

3. Where a party on appealing to the county court executes an undertaking with
sureties, and the county court reverses the judgment of the justice, and on appeal to the
supreme court, that court reverses the judgment of the county court and affirms the
judgment of the justice, the sureties are liable not merely for the amount of the judgment in the county court, but for the amount recovered in the supreme court.—Smz'th
V. Cronise, 24 Barb., 671.

628. [1854, 1855.] An appeal from a justice’s court shall not be
e&'ectual for any purpose, unless an undertaking be filed, with two or

more sureties, in the sum’ of o_1_1_e hundred dollars, for the payment of I
thepqsts on the appeal,‘ or if a stay of proceedings be claimed, in a
sum equal to twice thqanrount oi; the judgment, including costs, when

the judgment is for the payment of money ;I or twice the value ‘of the
property, including costs, when the judgment is for the recovery of
specific personal property ;land shall be conditioned, when the action
is for the recovery of money, that the appellant will pay the amount of
the judgment appealed from, and all ‘costs, if the appeal be withdrawn
or dismissed, or the amount of any judgment and all costs that may be
recovered against him in said action, in the county court. Where the

action is for the recovery of specific personal property, the undertak 

ing shall be conditioned that the appellant will pay the judgment and

. costs appealed from, and obey the order of the court made therein, if

the appeal be withdrawn or dismissed, or any judgment and costs that
may be recovered against him in said action in the county court, and
will obey any order made by the court therein. i The undertaking shall
be accompanied by the affidavit of the sureties that they are residents
of the county, and are each worth the arnountpspecifded in the undertaking, over and above all their just debts and liabilities, exclusive of
pro erty exempt from execution ; [or the bond shall be executed by a
s ient number of sureties, who can justify in the aggregate to an
amount equal to double the amount specified in the bond,ior a deposit

of the amount of the judgment, including all costs, appealed from,or of '

the value of the property, including all costs in actions for the recovery
of specific personal property, with the justice ; and such deposit shall
be equivalent to the filing of the undertaking in the Act mentioned,
and in such cases the justice shall transmit the money to the clerk of
the county court, to be paid out upon the order of the court.

629. If an execution be issued, on the filing of the undertaking
staying all proceedings, the justice shall, by order, direct the officerto
stay all proceedings on the same. Such officer shall, upon payment
of his fees for services rendered on the execution, thereupon relinquish all property levied upon, and deliver the same to the judgment
debtor, together with all monies collected from sales or otherwise.
If his fees be not paid, the officer may retain so much of the property
or proceeds thereof, as may be necessary to pay the same.

630. [1853, 1854.] Repealed.

631. [18531, 1855.] Costs shall be allowed to the prevailing party
in a justice’s court.

632. [1854, 1855.] Repealed.

633. Justices of the peace shall receive from the sheriil‘ or constables of their county, all monies collected on any process or order issued
by their courts respectively, and all monies paid to them in their oilicial capacity, and shall pay the same over to the parties entitled or
authorized to receive them, without delay. For a. violation of this

section, they may be removed from their office and shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor.

634. Justices of the peace may, in all cases, require a deposit of

money, or an undertaking, as security for costs of court, before issuing
a summons.

635. The provisions of sections five hundred and nineteen, five
hundred and twenty, five hundred and twenty-three, five hundred and
twenty-five, five hundred and twenty-six, five hundred and twentyseven, five hundred and thirty-one and five hundred and thirty-two,
shall be applicable to justices’ courts and actions therein.

TITLE XVII. .

OF PROCEEDINGS IN CIVIL CASES IN RECORDERS’ AND MAYORS’ COURTS.

636. Civil actions in recorders’ and mayors’ courts shall be commenced by filing the complaint, setting forth the violation of the ordinance complained of, with such particulars of time, place, and manner
of violation, as to enable the defendant to understand distinctly the
character of the violation complained of, and to answer the complaint.
The ordinance may be referred to by its title. The complaint shall be
verified by the oath of the party complaining, or of his attorney or agent.

1 . The recorder of the city of Sacramento has no jurisdiction in cases of forcible entry
and unlawful detainer.— Cronise v. Carghill, 4 Cal., 120.

637. Immediately after filing the complaint, a summons shall be
issued, directed to the defendant, and returnable either immediately,

or at atime designated therein, not exceeding four days from the date
of its issuance.

638. On the return of the summons the defendant may plead to
the complaint, or he may answer or deny the same. Such plea, answer, or denial, may be oral or in writing, and immediately thereafter

the case shall be tried, unless for good cause shown, an adjournment be
granted.

S

639. In all cases for violation of an ordinance where the fine, forfeiture, or penalty imposed by the ordinance, is less than fifty dollars,.
the trial shall’ be by the court. In actions where the fine, forfeiture,
or penalty imposed by the ordinance, is over fifty dollars, the defendant
shall be entitled, if demanded by him, to a jury of six persons.

640. From a judgment in a civil action in a recorder’s or mayor’s

I court, an appeal may be taken to the county court. The appeal shall

be taken and the proceedings thereon conducted in the same manner as
appeals are taken from a judgment in a civil action in a justice’s court,
and as the proceedings thereon are conducted.

641. All proceedings in civil actions in recorders’ and mayors’
courts, except as herein otherwise provided, shall be conducted in the
same manner as in civil actions injustices’ courts.

642. The provisions of this title shall be applicable to civil actions
in recorders’ and mayors’ courts already established, or which may
hereafter be established in any incorporated city of this_state.

TITLE XVIII.

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

643. The supreme court may make rules not inconsistent with the
constitution and laws of the state, for its own government, and the

government of the district courts; but such rules shall not be in force
until thirty days after their adoption and publication.

644. The county clerk shall be clerk of the county court, the court
of sessions, and the probate court of his county.

645. If an action be brought against a sheriff for an act done by
virtue of his office, and he give Written notice thereof to the sureties
on any bond of indemnity received by him, the judgment recovered
therein shall be conclusive evidence of his right to recover against such

sureties; and the court or judge in vacation may, on motion, upon notice of five days, order judgment to be entered up against them for the

amount so recovered, including costs.

646. [1857.] In the counties of Santa Clara, Santa Cruz, Monterey, San Luis Obispo, Santa Barbara, Contra Costa, Los Angeles
and San Diego, it shall be the duty of the oilicer to give the defendant, in a civil action, if said defendant shall require it, a copy of the
summons or other process in the Spanish language ; and in the counties of Santa Barbara, San Luis Obispo, Los Angeles, and San Diego,
Monterey and Santa Cruz, it shall be lawful, with the consent of both
parties, to have the process, pleadings, and other proceedings in a cause,

in the Spanish language. 4.2.; ,/slug; 3'2. aifoc. Ir}?

647. Words used in this act in the present tense, shall be deemed
to include the future as well as the present ; words used in the singular number shall be deemed to include the plural, and the plural the
singular ; writing shall be deemed to include printing or printed paper;
oath to include affirmation or declaration ; signature or subscription to
include mark when the person cannot write, his name being written
near it, and witnessed by a person who writes his own name, as a

' witness.

648. The following statutes, namely: the Act entitled “ An Act
to regulate proceedings in civil cases in the district court, the superior

court of the city of San Francisco, and the supreme court,” passed
April twenty-second, eighteen hundered and fifty; the Act entitled

_ “ An Act to regulate proceedings against debtors by attachment,”

passed April twenty-second, eighteen hundred and fifty ; the Act entitled “ An Act providing for the collection of demands against vessels
and boats,” passed April tenth, eighteen hundred and fifty; the Act

entitled “ An Act to regulate proceedings in courts of justices of the '

peace in civil cases,” passed April tenth, 1850 ; and the Act entitled
“ An Act to regulate proceedings in the county courts in cases of appeal from the courts of justices of the peace,” passed April eleventh,
eighteen hundred and fifty; the Act entitled “ An Act respecting setoffs,” passed [April] twenty-second, eighteen hundred and fifty, are
hereby repealed; but such repeal shall not invalidate any judgment

R I

rendered, or order made, or any proceeding already taken by virtue
of said statutes.

649. This Act shall take effect on the first day of July, of the
present year. a “

650. [1854.] In all cases where an undertaking with sureties is
required by the provisions of said act, the judge, justice, clerk, or
other officer taking the same, shall require the sureties to accompany
the same with an affidavit that they are each worth the sum speciiied
in the undertaking, over and above all their just debts and liabilities,
exclusive of property exempt from execution ; provided, that when the
amount specified in the undertaking exceeds three th_o_1§and_ dollars,
and there are more than two sureties thereon, they may state in their
affidavits that they are severally worth amounts less than that expressed in the undertaking, if the whole amount be equivalent to that
of two sufficient sureties. 3,74,. Sec "’.,- .

 

1. Plaintitfs are not bound to delay suit on an undertaking until after issue and return of the execution.—Nz'cIcerson v. Chatterton, 7 Cal., April T.

2. The affidavit is sufficient, if, when fairly construed, it comply with the statute.—
Taaje v. Rosenthall, 7 Cal., April T.

3. Where a mere defective undertaking has been bona fide given, and the party will
file a good one before the case is submitted, a court should permit him to do so.—B1yan v. Berry, 7 Cal., July T. ; Cunningham v. HopIcins.—1b.

4. In an action against sureties to save from a legal liability, the complaint need
not aver actual damage ; in such cases the legal liability is the measure of damages.
lllcG'ee v. Roen, 4 Abbott, 8.

651. [1854, 1855.] In actions respecting miners’ claims, in a
justice’s court, the justice shall have power, upon application of the
party out of possession of the claim or claims, after notice of one day
to the adverse party, to appoint a receiver of the proceeds of the claim,
pending the action. If the parties agree upon a person, he shall be
appointed such receiver ; if the parties do not agree, the justice shall
appoint a receiver, who shall take an oath which shall be filed with the
justice, that he is not interested in the action between the parties, and
that he will honestly keep an account of all gold dust or metals of any
kind, the proceeds of the claim or claims in dispute. After the appointment of such receiver, the justice shall have power to issue a written order to any sheriff or constable, to put such receiver into possession of such claim, which order said sheriff or constable shall execute,

and the receiver shall remain in possession of the claim or claims, so
long as said action may remain undetermined in any court. The court
in which the action may be pending, shall have the authority upon the
application of either party, with two days’ notice to the other, from
time to time, to make such orders for the disposition of the proceeds or
such claim or claims, for the safety of the same, as may seem proper.
The court in which the action may be pending, shall also have
power, upon application of the receiver, based upon his aliidavit, to

punish as for contempt, all persons who have been guilty of disturbing the receiver in the possession of the claims.

652. [1854.] The receiver mentioned in the last section, shall
keep an accurate account of all the proceeds of the claim pending the
action, and of all amounts paid out for working the same, and shall retain the proceeds and pay the same over, pursuant to the order of the
court. The receiver shall also be required, on demand of either party
to give security for the faithful performance of his trust, and shall be
allowed for the same a reasonable compensation, to be paid out of the

proceed of the claim in his hands, but in no case exceeding ten per
cent. upon such proceeds.

653. [1854.] Writs of certiorari and mandamus, may be issued
in the cases prescribed by said act, by a judge of the supreme court,
district con}-t, or county court, in vacations, and may in the discretion

of the judge issuing the writ, be made returnable, and a hearing may
be had on the return thereof in the vacation.

See Secs. 456, 467.

654. [1854.] Whenever property has been taken by an oliicer,
under a writ of attachment, in pursuance of the provisions of said act,

and it shall be made to appear satisfactorily to the court, or a judge
thereof, or a county judge, that the interest of the parties to the action
will be subserved by a sale thereof, the court or judge may order such
property to be sold in the same manner as property is sold under an
execution, and the proceeds to be deposited in court to abide the judgment in the action. Such order shall be made only upon notice to the

adverse party, or his attorney, in case such party has been personally
served with a summons in the action.

See Secs. 130, 221.

[1854.] A copy of any record, document, or paper in the

4y of a public officer of this state, or of the United States, within

.s state, certified under the official seal, or verified by the oath of
such officer, to be a true, full and correct copy of the original in his
custody, may be read in evidence in an action or proceeding in the
courts of this state, in the like manner and with the like effect, as the

j original could be if produced.

See Secs. 448, 449.

656. [1854.] When two or more persons associated in any businesss, transact such business under a common name, whether it comprises the names of such persons or not, the associates maybe sued by
such common name, the summons in such cases being served on one

or more of the associates, but the judgment in such cases shall bind only
the joint property of the associates.

657. [1854.] All decisions given upon an appea.l,in any appellate
court of this state, shall be given in writing, with the reason therefore,
and filed with the clerk of the court, but this section shall not apply to
actions tried with a jury anew in the county court, or on appeal from
a justice’s court.

658. [1854.] A defendant against Whom an action is pending,
upon a contract or for specific personal property, may at any time before answer, upon affidavit that a _ person not a party to the action
makes against him, and without any collusion with him, a demand upon
the same contract, or for the same property, upon due notice to such
person, and the adverse party, apply to the court for an order to substitute such person in his place, and discharge him from liability to
either‘ party on his depositing in court the amount claimed on the contract, or delivering the property or its value to such person as the

the court may direct, and the court may, in its discretion, make the
order. "

1. This order can only be made when it is certain that the only question is, whether

the plaintifff or a third person is the true owner of the debt, fund or other property for
which judgment is demanded.—SIzerman v.Partrz'dge, 4 Duer, 646. '

659. [1‘854.] Any person shall be entitled to intervene in an action whohas an interest in the matter in litigation, in the success of

either of the parties to the action, or an interest against both. An
intervention takes place when a third person is permitted to become a
party to an action between other persons, either by joining the plaintiE' in claiming what is sought by the complaint, or by uniting with the
defendant in resisting the claims of the plaintifff, or by demanding anything adversely to both the plaintifff and the defendant.

1. Sustained.-:-Brooks v. Huger, 5 Cal., 281; Sargeant v. lVz'lson, 5 Cal., 504;
Yuba county v. Adams, 7 Cal., Jan. T.

2. The petition of an intervenor must be treated as a declaration or complaint.People v. Talmage, 6 Cal., 256.

3. In an action to foreclose a mortgage upon property claimed as a homestead, the
wife should be allowed to intervene.—Sargeant v. Wilson, 5 Cal., 504.

4. On intervention, if the proceedings between the debtor and a prior creditor, are
not void, but voidable, the defendant can alone object.—Dz':re3/ v. Pollock, 7 Cal., Oct. T.

660. [1854.] A third person may intervene, either before or after
issue has been joined in the cause.

661. [1854.] The intervention shall be by petition or complaint,
filed in the court in which the action is pending, and it must set forth
the grounds on which the intervention rests. A copy of the petition
or complaint shall be served upon the party or parties to the action
against whom anything is demanded, who shall answer it as if it were

an original complaint in the action.

662. [1854.] The court shall determine upon the intervention at
the same time that the action is decided; if the claim of the party intervening is not sustained, he shall pay all costs incurred by the
intervention.

663. [1854.] On the trial of any action in a court of record,
either party may require the clerk to take down the testimony in writing.

1. A transcript of which, certified by the clerk, is a substitute for a bill of exceptions
or statement of facts in their absence.—Ingraham v. Gildemeester, 2 Cal., 161.

664. [1854.] The party obtaining the postponement of a trial, in
any court of record shall also, if required by the adverse party, consent that the testimony of any witness of such adverse party, who is in
attendance, be then taken by deposition before a judge or clerk of the
court in which the case is pending, or before such notary public as the

court may indicate, which shall accordingly be done, and the testimony
so taken may be read on the trial with the same effect, and subject to

the same objections, as if the witness were produced.

665. [1854.] Whenever costs are awarded to a party by an appellate court, such party may have an execution for the same on filing
a remittitur with the clerk of the court below, and it shall be the duty
of such clerk whenever the remittitur is filed, to issue the execution
upon application therefore ; and whenever costs are awarded to a party
by an order of any court, such party may have an execution therefore

in like manner as upon a judgment.

1. When a remittitur is sent down, the clerk of the district court may issue execution for costs.-—Ma3/orqf Marjysz-ille v. Buchanan, 3 Cal., 212.

666. [1854.] Sections five, six, seven, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen,
eighteen, nineteen and twenty, of the act entitled “ an act amendatory
of and supplementary to the act entitled ‘ an act to regulate proceedings in civil cases in the courts of justice in this state,’ ” passed May
eighteenth, one thousand eight hundred and fifty-three, are hereby
repealed, and the sections amended by said amendatory act, shall stand

revived as amended by this act.

667. [1854.] This act shall take eifect on the first day of July,
one thousand eight hundred and fifty-four.

1. This Section refers to Secs. 650, et seq.


