AN ACT TO REGULATE PROCEEDINGS IN CIVIL
CASES IN THE COURTS OF JUSTICE OF THIS
STATE.

LS PLEID APRIL 2911, 1351, AND AS UENTLY AMENDED BY VARIOU3
A013 0! THE LEGISLA I UP TO AND INCLUDING THE YEAR 1807-3.

1. ‘nae common law.—The common law constitutes the basis of our jurisyrudenee, and rights and liabilities must be determined in accordance with
its ' ' lee, except so as they are modided by statute. Van Maren v.
J 15 Cal. 308. The men law having been adopted asa rule of
  State, it is e duty of the Com to enforce it. Johnson v.
Phil, 6 . .

2. The phrase, "Proceedingaecordi tothe course of the common law,"
has been used merely from force of ha ‘t, or mainly for ornamental purposes ; it leaves no definite impression on the understanding; it is simply
equivalent to a ltno ' look or shake of the head. When first employed its
use was harmless ; 73% continued use, where the modes of the common
law have been superseded, is mischievous. Hahn v. Kelley, Oct. T. 1867.

3.Ccnstruottonoftheaot.—In thisaet,itis propertoremember that the two leading ends contempla by the system are simplicity
and eeonom ; and it would seem, thereforee, to be a just conclusion, that the
Court shoul exercise a liberal construction, and that the main intent and

' ‘to! theaetshouldbefairly earriedout. Adamsv. Hachdt, 7 Cal. 201.

e adopt the New York construction of the Code where the sections are
alike. «I. 203. Our system of pleadingis fanned upon the model of the
civillaw,andone of its princi o 'ects is to discourage ta-acted and
mentions litigation. It is the uty of the Courts to assist, as at as possible,
in the accomplishment of this object, and it should not be fritteu-ed away by
the application of rules which have no legitimate connection with the system.
Jones v. Steamship Cortes, 17 Cal. 497.

4. 1th prospective.-—-'1'he Practice Actor April 29th, 1861, is prospective in its ‘on, and to give it a retrospectbe end the time of its passage, woul be in violation of all settled rules 0 construction. Thoma v.
San Francisco, 4 Cal. 153, 154.

5. It applies alike to legal and equitable act:lons.—The Practice Act
applies to equitable as well as to legal actions, so far as its provisions are
consistent with the ' hts and remedies administered in Courts of uity.

Dug v. Fisher, 15 . 375; Goodwin v. Hammond, 13 Cal. 168; R’ v.
, 18 Cal. 302.

6. Its eifect as to ev1denoe.—The Practice Act, as to evidence at least,

governs all cases, legal or equitable, by the same rules. Goodwin v. Hammond, 13 Cal. 168.

7. Stare deoisis.—Though, on questions of practice, previous decisions

are entitled to very get weight, still a single decision made without notice

of a statute, cannot invoked as authority on the principle of stare decisis.
M v. Fisher, 15 Cal. 375.

The People of the State of California, represented in Senate and
Assembly, do enact as follows : ' '

TITLE I.

OF CIVIL ACTIONS AND ‘THE PARTIES THERETO.

Sscrrox 1. One form of civil actions, on] .

Parties to an action, how designated.

Special issues not made by the pleadings, how tried.
Action to be in the name of the real party in interest.
Assignment of a thing in action not to rejudice.

Executor or trustee may sue without e persons benedcially interested.

When married woman is a , actions by and against.
If husband and wife sued _toge er, wife may defend.

Infant to a pear by 
Guardian, ow appointed.

Father or mother may maintain action for injury to child.
Who may be joined as laintiifs.

Who may be Joined as efendante.

14. Parties in interest, when to be joined. When one or more
may sue or defend for the whole.

15. One action may include‘ diferent parties to commercial

per.
16. Act.i‘<:1_, _ when not to abate by death, marriage or other dis55F599s 9999»

abih .
17. Court, wthen to decide controversy, or to order other parties to be brought in.

§ 1. One form of civil actions, only.

There shall be in this State but one form of civil actions,

for the enforcement or protection of private rights, and the
redress or prevention of private wrongs.

N. Y. Code, 6 69. Applicable to Justices’ Courts. See 6 683, post. See
5 37-70, post.

1. Probate ' are not “ civil actions " within the meaning of the
Practice Act. Estate 0 0. G. Scott, 15 Cal. 220.

2. Special cases.—The term “ special ‘cases ” in the Constitution, does
not include any class of cases for which the Courts of general jurisdiction
1é:1Le‘83lW'8yB supplied a remedy. Parsons v. the Tuolumne Water Company, 5

3. The “special cases” must be condned tosuch newcasesas arethe
creation of statutes, and the proceedings under which are unknown to the
general frame-work of Courts of common law and equi . Id.

4. “ Civil actions ” embrace both legal and equitab e actions. Smith v.
Richmond, 19 Cal. 481.

5. The term “ civil action ” includes the remedies provided by the Practice
Act for the enforcement of 'udgments; and the remedy by scire facias is
unknown to our practice. e intention was to adopt a uniform and complete system, and if it be a system at all, it is necessarily exclusive, and the
introduction of other remedies would destroy its uniformity and defeat the
purposes of the act. Humision v. Smith, 21 Cal. 134.

6. Where the Legislature creates a right of action, and makes no special
gzovisions for its enforcement, other than by directing that a civil action may

brought for that purpose, such action may be commenced and prosecuted
pursuant to the provisions of the general law regulatisggroceedings in civil
cases, and ‘es to such actions zgg take any and e steps authorized
thereby. urson v. Cowles, 25 Cal. ‘ .
7. Butf wlhere the gods stand this are silent,b1the8h roof the old
0 eading' an rac'ce,w e er orequita e, o a li
aystemirrespectivge of former Itechnical distinctions, to all actions under tlfep nest
system. Per Bennet, J. Rowe v. Chandler et a1., 1 Cal. 167.

8. The forms alone of the several actions have been abolished by the
Statute; the substantial allegations of the complaint in a given case must be
the same under our Practice Act as are required at common law. Miller v.
Van Ihssel, 24 Cal. 463.

9. But while the mere forms of pleadings are simplihed, the body of the
law is preserved with all those general rinciples, those wise distinctions,
those strict principles and unerring rules, ose sound and logical conclusions,
which C0;J.8Ct;tll1I2e0;tB justice and Justiiies its glory as a science. Sampson v.
Shaefcr, . . .

10. The plaintiff need only state his course of action in ordinary and concise
language, whether it be at common law or in equity, without regard to the
ancient forms or technicalities; and while there is no diference in the form
of a bill in chancery and a common law declaration, the distinction between
law and uity is as broad as ever. De Witt v. Bays, 2 Cal. 468; Jones v.
Steamship cries, 17 Id. 487; Smith v. Rowe, 4 Cal. 6.

11. Eve action under our practice may be properl termed an action on
the case ( 7 Cal. 498 ; but the general princi les w ‘ch overn the case
remain unchanged. v. Chauviteau, 3 . 463. In e form of the
remedy no distinction exists between legal and equitable rights. Wiggins v.
Jlcbonald, 18 Cal. 127. All the forms of pleading, and the rules by which
their sumciency is to be determined, are prescribed by the Practice Act (Payne
and Dewey v. Treadwed, 16 Cal. 243), which supersedes the old rules of
pleading. Chordier v. Schloss and Heilbroner, 12 Cal. 147.

§2. Parties to an action, how 

In such action the party complaining shall be known as the
plaintiil‘, and the adverse party as the defendant. ‘\

N. Y. Code, $70, Applicable to Justices’ Courts, post, $533.

§ 3. Special issues not made by the pleadings, how tried.

When a question of fact not put in issue by the pleadings
is to be tried by a jury, an order for the trial may be made,

I

and such order shall be the only authority necessary for a
trial.

§4. ‘ Actions to beinthe name ofthe real party in interest.

Every action shall be prosecuted in the name of the real

, party in interest, except as otherwise provided in this act.
1 Amended mu. on 1355, ans; man. as.

1. Applicable to Justices’ Cour-ts.——N. Y. Code, § 111; Van Sant . Prac.
72. Form of Answer.—See Abb. Forms, vol. 2, p. 31, Vooh's. N. . Code,

149 note. Wadderspoon v. Rogers, 82 Cal. 569; seepost, M 5, 6, 12, 47.

2. Real party in interest.—The possession of a romissory note, whether
obtained before or after maturity, is ‘ ' facie evi ence of ownershi . The
transfer, with or without value, co ers upon the holder the right 0 action:
and a consideration need not be proved unless a defense is inte which
would otherwise preclude a recovery. McCann v. Lewis, 9 Cal. 2 .

3. His right to maintain the action cannot be questioned on the ground that
it belong‘ to a third party, except the defendant pleads payment to, or ofset
against at party. Price v. Dunlap, 5 Cal. 483; Gushce v. Leavitt, 6 Cal. 160.

4. Under our system there is but one form of action to enforce private
rights, whether legal or equitable, and the action must be in the name of the
real party in interest, with certain statutory exceptions, within which cases of

' ent do not come. W‘ gins v. McDonald, 18 Cal. 126; see § 6, post.

5. Whatever the rule may under the old system, under our system the
mt of action is in the party sustaining the injury; for, on a recovery, the

r party, if entitled to receive the money at all, and if judgment were had
in the name of both, would hold it by right of, and as trustee for, the other;
and our Practice Act, for convenience, has given the right to sue to the
benencially entitled to the fruits of the action. Summers v. Farish, 10 Cal. 34 .

6. Formerly, where a bond was given to an officer, state, or corporation,
suit had to be brought in the name of the party holding the legal title, for the
benefit of the persons interested; but our statute has introduced a new rule,

, and, by the provisions of the Practice Act, the suit must be rosecuted in the
name of the real in interest. Balcer v. Bartel, 7 Cal. 1; War-mouth v,
Hatch, July '1‘. 1 7; y 1'. Wise, 28 Cal. 540.

7. On an injunction bond, given to plaintiff and others as olgigees, laintid
alone may sue, if the props on which the injunction opera was ' sole
props , and the injury his one, the complaint averting these facts. Browms"wh .’tl:5 Cat 11' eral bh in 1; a rtalnng

. ere erearesev o'gees suc anune ’ ,romi' to
pay “said parties enjoined," etc., suit may be bro ht in the iiame sdilgone
alone, if he be beneficially entitled to the fruits of e recovery. Prader v.

Icett, 13 Cal. 588.‘
I. 1A31sti-anger to a transaction has no right to sue. Chenery v. Palmer, 5

stating distinctly and plainly the question of fact to be tried ;’

10. M, a sherif, had in his hands mone belonging to L, which he had col-9

l _ on an execution in favor of L an D, and against S; W and 0 comuienced an action against M and L, and others, to enjoin M from paying the
‘busy to L, and procured a preliminary injunction, which was served on 11
us, but L appeared in the action and defended. The injunction bond ran

to all of the defendants. Held, that L could maintain an action for damages
on the injunction bond. Lolly v. Wise, 28 Cal. 639.
IL Each of the parties to whom an injunction bond tiisbgayable may sue
e

on  same for his several damages, even if the bond is payable to the

oblgees jointl . Id.

1 Defendazit purchased land of B, and as part of the consideration, ed
to pay certain debts of B. Neither plaintiff nor the personto whom the ebts
were owing were parties to this agreement, nor did they assent to it, or attem t
to connect themselves with the transaction prior to this suit. Plaintid’
holder of these debts, and seeks to recover them of defendant: Held, that
plaintiff cannot maintain the action, there being no privity between the parties,
no  na:f the indebtedness‘,i 811:1 no assent to tide transactgn, which
migh' ' e e agreement an ta e assignment. cLaren v. utchinso
18 Cal. 80. Commented on andeguestioned in 21 Cal. 178. n’

13. When A, by agreement between him and B, assented to by C, becomes
liable topayto the latteradebt orig-inall due tohimbyB, the assi ee of
C may maintain an action for the debt in own name, against A. cllaren
Y. Hutchinson, 22 Cal. 187.

14. Where a proof was that defendant, having 3-eed with B the amount of
his (plaintiffs) _demand, afterwards met the plain ' , and stated to him that he
(defendant) had agreed with B to pay his (plaintiffs) claim, and was to pa it,
and that plaintin’ then stated his *‘ williigness to look to defendant” : field,
that his roof authorized a tlnding that d endant agreed with plaintin‘ to pay
him his emand. Id.

15. A person having an equitable title to land cannot maintain an action to
recover possession of the same, but such action must be brought in the name
gathe person in whom the legal title is trusted Emeric v. Penntman, 26 Cal.

16. The sherin‘ who levies an attachment by virtue of the process of the
Court, has not the right of property in the debt, and cannot maintain an action
in his own name for the recovery of the debt. Sublette v. Melhado, 1 Cal. 105.

17. An und ' given to a sherif to procure a release of goods attached,
is for the benent of e flaintif, who may sue on it, and if the sheritl‘ takes
a sumcient statuto un ' , he has no further responsibility. Gurial v.
Packard, 29 Cal. 1 .

18. If a Mexican grant of land iscondrmed to a wrong rson, and a patent
of the United States for the same issued to a person who ‘d not own or claim
to own the t. and had no right to the patent, the patentee will be deemed
toholdthemtitleinh-ustforthereal 'esininterest. 8almoav.I.{
noads,30Cal.301.Vide290al.488: Cal.301. Propertyinavesse
6 Cal. 462. Seefurtherpost t. 12, “Plaintina.”

19. Causes of action assignable.—An order in the follo ’ words: Messrs.
F. Huth & Go: Please hold to the order of William Pope 8: ns, of Boston,
dve hundred pounds titer’ of insurance effected on cargo of bark Elvina,
andoblige, etc.,isane ui le ass’ ent of the fundsinthehands, orto
come into the hands of e drawees, the payees. Pope v. Hath, 14 Cal. 407.

20. A contract not to run boats on a certain line of travel, and on failure to
comply with such contract, to pay $15,000, is an instrument in writing, and
auignable 3 our laws. Cali ornia Steam Nav. Co. v. Wright, 6 Cal. 261.

21. An 0 er drawn upon fendant for an amount due from the defendant,
is a ' facie assignment of the debt due. Even if it was on] for part of
a den: no one could make the ob'ection but the defendants. Mo v. Johnson,7Cal.260;Wheatleyv. ,12Id.97;Popev. Huth,14Id.-108. And
thedrawees having notice of such assignment, are liable to the payees for the
unount, without an express promise  pay it. Id. _

22. An agreement to pay a certain sum of money to a defendant, if he
would withdraw his defense to a suit. is assignable, and such assignment ’ es
s ght of action in the name of the asaignee. Gray v. Garrison, Cal. .

. A contract where the owner of a stallion leases him for a season for a
sum of money agreed on, and reserves the ri ht to have the horse cover nine
mares during the season, is assignable, and e assignee, who is also the purchaser of the horse from the owner, is entitled to all the benents arising out
of the contract. Doll v. Anderson, 27 Cal. 250.

24. Before the assignee of such contract is entitled to the benefit of the
same, he must give notice to the lessee that he has purchased the same. Id.

25. Courts of equiz support and give effect to assignments of things which
have no present a existence, but rest in mere possibility; not as a present positive transfer operative in i, but as a present contract, to take
elfect and attach as soon as the ' g comes in case. Bibend v. London and
Liverpool Fire and Life Ins. Co., 30 Cal. 78 ; Pierce 7. Robinson, 13 Id. 121.

26. An assignment of a policy of insurance a n a stock of goods, effected
in the name of the assignor, made as collate  for a debt due from
the assignor to the assignee, with an agreement that in case of loss by nre,
the assignee shall collect the money and appl it on the debt, attaches in
equity as a lien upon the amount due on the polyicy to the extent of the debt,

assoonasthelossoccurs,as 'nsttheass1 orandall rsonsasse ' a
claim hereto under him. Id. “gm gn ' pa runs

27. Defendant being indebted to E. M. Co., and they to laintif, all
parties agreed that defendant should pay the amount of his in ebtedness to
the company to the plaintiff. Held, that this was an equitable assignment of
the debt, and that the only mode under our practice in which the assignment
can be enforced, is b action in the name of the assignee to recover the debt.
Wiggins v. Mo , 18 Cal. 126.

2 . A contract to perform work on a street in San Francisco may be assigned,
and the assignee, if he fulfils the conditions of the same, can enforce it; and
if such contract has been assigned, and the assi ee performs the contract,
the warrant, when issued for the work, may be de 'vered to the ori ' contractor, who may make demand for its payment. Thylor v. Palmer, 3 Cal. 240.

29. If A owns a lot on a street to be improved, and takes the contract, and

then assigns to B, who performs the contract, B may sue A for the assessment
against his lot. Id.

30. A demand by a contractor against the owner of a lot in San Francisco,
for an assessment on the lot for street improvements, is assignable. Cochran
v. Collins, 29 Cal. 129.

31. The assignment of a judgment, which is void because the amount for
which it was rendered was beyond the 'urisdiction of the Court, carries with
it the debt on which it was obtained. rown v. Scott, 25 Cal. 194.

32. A judgment rendered upon an unassignable cause of action fora tort is
a debt. Lawrence v. Martin, 2 Cal. 173.

33. Torts assignable.-—A claim for damage caused by a trespass on land
is assignable, and the ' ee may maintain an action to recover the same.
More v. Massine et al.9., 32 al. 590.

34. A right of action for the wrongful taking and conversion of personal
property is assignable, and, under the provisions of the Code, the assignee
can recover on e same in his own name. Lazard v. Wheeler, 22 Cal. 139.

35. Every cause of action arisin out of tort which survives to the personal

representatives is assignable. ere is no such oifence as champerty, or
maintenance, known to our law. Boyd v. Blanlcman, Oct. T. 1864.

36. Causes of action not assignab1e.—-Where there is no iinal settlement
of the partnership accounts, and no balance struck, and no express promise
on the part of the individual members to pay their ascertained portion of this
amount, no action can be maintained therefore in assum sit, nor can the claim
be assigned so that the assignee may sue. Ballard v. mney, 10 Cal. 63.

37. A cause of action for a malicious prosecution is not assignable. Lawrence v. Martin, 22 Cal. 173.

38. The recovery of a verdict in an action for a nal tort does not
change the character of the claim to a debt which can assigned. Id.

39. Costs are on! an incident of a verdict, and when the verdict is, from its
nature, unassignab e, an attempt to assign it will not pass the costs. Id.

40. A vendor’s1ien is not assignable. Baum v. Grigsby, 21 Cal. 17 2; Lewis
v. Covillaud, Id. 178; Williams v. Young, Id. 227.

41. Causes of action arising out of personal torts which do not survive to the

Se:-sonal representatives of a party, are not assignable. v. Blanlcmoa,
ct. 'l‘., 1864 ; 3 Kernan, 322 ; 36 Barb. 270; 2 Kernan, 622 ; Selden, 347.

42. Splitting Dernands.—A creditor has the right to assign the debt in parcels. and thus, by splitting up the cause of action. subject his debtor to the costs
and expenses of more suits than the parties originally contemplated if the
debtor does not object. Marziou v. Pioche, 8 Cal. 536 ; 7 Cal. 260; 6 Cushing
B. 282; 13 Mo. R. 300; 11 S. and R. 78; Vooh’s. N. Y. Code (8 ed.) p. 182.

§ 5. Assignment qf thing in action not to prejudice.

In the case of an assignment of a thing in action, the action

by the assignee shall be without prejudice to any set-oh‘ or
other defense existing at the time of, or before, notice of the

assignment ; but this section shall not apply to a negotiable

promissory note, or bill of exchange, transferred in good faith
and upon good consideration, before due.

Applicable to Justices’ Courts. See § 12, 47, 48, post; also, § 4, mile, N. Y.
Code, § 112.

1. Negotiable promissory notes transferred as collateral secu.rity.-Where is negotiable promisory note, not yet due, is taken bona jlde as collateral
security for a pre-existing debt, it is not subject to any defense existing at the
date of the assignment between the original parties. Payne v. Beasley, 8 Cal.
260; Robinson v. Smith, 14 Cal. 94; Naglee v. , Id. 450.

2. Where defendant made and delivered to . dc Co. her note, to be used by
them only as collateral security to raise money or get credit, and they so used it,
and afterwards took it up from the ledgees: Held, that K. &Co. could not then
me on the note, as it had answered ts purpose ; and that plaintifff, having taken

the note after maturity and upon no new consideration, took it subject to the
same defense. Coghtin 1. May, 17 Cal. 515.

3. Assignee and indorsee after maturity, right o£—An indorsee. after
maturity. takes the same interest that the indorsee had. and his claim is subject to the same legal and equitable defense. Folsom v. Bartlett, 2 Cal. 164.

4. A n otiafile note, taken by the holder after its maturity, is taken subject
to all an ting equities between the maker and the payee, but not such as subsisted between the maker and any intermediate holder. Warner v. Wilson, 4
Cal. 309.

5. Checks. cornideration. defenses.—-A check given for a gaming debt is
void in the hands of all persons, except a bona jids holder, without notice.
Fuller v. Hutchings, 10 Cal. 523.

6. Where the illegal consideration of a check is admitted, it is incumbent on
the holder, even if he took it before dishonor, to show that he took it without
notice and for value. Id.

7. With a check, the presumption is, that it is given upon a valid consideration. but this resumption being rebutted, the necessity is thrown upon the
holder of pro ng am he received it in good faith, without notice of the illsgality of the consideration. Id.

8. A party taking a check after its presentation for paymeht to the bankers
in n whom it is drawn and its dishonor, takes it subject to all the defenses to
w ‘ch it was subject in the hands of the original holder. Id.

9. Recovery, extent of.—Where the consideration passing between the
indorsee and indomer is not equal to the amount of the paper, the indorsee in

an action against the indorser can recover only the consideration he has actually paid. Gaye 17. Palmer, 16 Cal. 158.

10. Equitable assignments.-—'l‘he assiguee of a judgment is only the holder
at an equity, with the right to use the judgment and the name of the plaintifff

to enforce it, and he stands in the shoes of the esslgn_or as to_ all defenses which
mi ;.§.**P*.:-........‘“° J"“5"s".....‘ ”°“;°.°*e.‘i*°.2.*<“s.‘:. ‘.5 p..'§r'%': :.‘.:'°~ '- W Ad cgrtlificate 01;) de. osit£ff§l,800, .ayable to till1e'order’of V, was indorsed,
so an e ivered to or four undred do are. Pa ent was then at
once demanded of e maker, and notice of protest servglmon V. Susbsequentiy, L transferred the certillcate to plaintifff: Held, that plaintin‘ can re»
cover of V onl the four hundred dollars received by him, the certificate bein
subject, in the ands of plaintiti’, to all the equities between the indorser an
indorsee. Goya v. Palmer, 16 Cal. 158.

12. uity upholds assignments, not only of chosen in action. but of contingent terests and expectations, and of things which have no actual existence, but vest in possibility-provided they are fairly made and are not against
public olicy; and a contract for such interest will take effect as an assi nment
when e subjects to which they refer have ceased to vest in possibil ty and
lags ripened into r£ality.LPierce v.  13 Cal. 123; Pope v. Hulls, 14

403' Bibendv. .and . Ins. C'o.,30 al. 78.

13. On’ suit upon an assigned account, the defendant may plead any defense
he mtgy hlawirg  t thella1ss)ignorvib¢if(>tre noftice of tthe assignmetnt, not aaba
coun r c a as t wo e in o a ion o section orty-seven, ut must s
set up as an eduitafile defense, on the ground that the assignee takes the demand
subject to an existing equity. Duf v. Hobbs, 19 Cal. 646.

14. Chosen in action fraudulent between the parties to it.-A nounegotiable chose in action, created by the immediate arties to it for the purpose of defrauding creditors, cannot be impeached in t e hands of an innocent

nee by the creditors of the debtors making such chose in action. Wright
4!: o. v. Levy, 12 Cal. 257.

15. One who makes an assiglilment of property for the sole purpose of hin-_
dering, delaying and defrau ' g his creditors, cannot maintain an action
against the assignee to compel a re-assignment of it or a judgment for its
value, if a re-assignment cannot be had, nor can a purchaser from the assignor,
who buys with full knowledge of such fraudulent assignment, maintain such
action. Gregory v. Haworth, 25 Cal. 655.

16. Notice of assignment not necessary.-—When A sold to B a bill of

goods to arrive on a certain vessel, B paid part of the purchase money, and

was to ay the balance as soon as the vessel arrived. B assigned the contract
to C, w 0, within a reasonable time after the arrival of the vessel, tendered
the balance of the money to A, and demanded the goods. Held, that C was
entitled to the oods, and no notice of the assignment was necessary to charge
A, Morgan v. , 5 Cal. 325.

17. Jndgznente.—Plainti&‘ in execution, after assigning his judgment, pretended falsely and fraudulentl to be the owner of it, and so retending, made
a contract to discharge the judygment by taking the note of ' persons, not
negotiable in the mercanfile sense, in payment. The makers of the note
greed to this, under the supposition induced by him that he was the owner:

old, that the makers of the note, on discovering that the plaintit was not

the owner of the ' dgment, rl refused to pa the note, even to assi see,
before maturity tifilereof.  5. Haclcett, 14 gal. 665. gn

18. An assignee of a judgment and of the Sherid’ 's certiicate of a sale
thereunder, stands in the same position as his assignor, the plaintifff, after
the judgment has been reversed, and the sale will be set aside and the pro
erty restored to the defendant where no loss or injury will be done to t
assignee. Reynolds v. Harris, 14 Cal. 681.

1 . The purchaser of a judgment entered by default takes it sub ect to the
right of the defendant, upon showing sumcient grounds to have e default
and judgment set aside, and to be let in to defend the action; and in this
resgect stands in no better position than his assignor. N ortham 1'. Gordon,
232081" 255dgm Inch be hased lik th

.Aju entispro w‘ may purc eanyo erpro
arty. The purchaser is und to inquire into the defense of the debtor. Id:

has the means to cg thhisgdsbugfhe ‘could not be hgldlto inquire into latent
equdtiesexistingin e third‘ persons;an ence~,astothird'
sons, he stands unafected b frauds of which he had no knowledge, mpg;
or constructive. . Wrightd: o. v. Levy et al., 12 Cal. 257.

21. In the purchase of a judgment, the rule of caveat emptor applies, so
far as third partiesareconcerned, in the samemannerasinthepumhaseof
my other personal peroperty. If the assignor has no title, the purchaser will
take none, whether have notice of a former sale or not. Mitchell v. Hoclcett
d «L, 25 Cal. 644. ‘

22. An assignee of a judgment, although a purchaser for a valuable considcation and without notice, takes subject to a right of set-oi! against the
jpiudgment existing at the time of the assignment. Porter v. Liscom, 22 Cal.

25. The purchaser of a 'udgment, although he buys in good faith and for a
"'““’ ‘’ .°1§’§‘‘‘,;.n.‘‘°’-“..'3°§i’ the ‘£m‘?2:“z;§ pu°“”mjii’I.‘$’ ”‘ oiiihi "1§..}§"§"6g‘1i°E‘9’is‘
24. An $131186 of a (judgment is deeiphed to have notlincéioélaan’ matters 
closed erecordan proceedingsin eactioninw ' ' entwas
rende ;andwhere that judgment orthe proceedings thereiln ' closean
‘table right of set-oil‘ existin in favor of the defendants against the

' ' th assigneecannotclaingtobeabonajidepurchaser Id

, e . . ~ .

25. B recovered a judgment against A and others, and thereafter assigned
it br a valuable consideration to C. Subsequent to the assignment, and before notice thereof to the defendants, the paid the amount of the judgment,
less $29 50, to the shenif, who had serv a garnishment u n them in D 1:.
B, and  a constable, on an execution held by him in V_v. _ , action brought
by B against A and others to recover the amount of his judgment against
them. Held, mat the case did not come under the provisions of the dfth
secéon of the Practice Act, but under section 240, and that as the defendants
were not  fact debtors _of .B_, but of Q, at the time  the payments, they
were not disc ed from liability on the judgment against them in favor of
B. In order to ' a party within the terms of the 240th section of the
Practice Act, there must be a _ ju ent and an execution thereon against
property, and the person making e payment must be indebted at the mistant to him against whom the. execution runs. Brown v. Agree at (£19., Oct.

., 1867. 2_6. _Where in the same action two ju ents were entered,’ one for the
plamtif for a certain sum_, and one for the _ efendant for a less sum: Held,
that defendant . had a right to set oifhis judgmentiro tante against that of
theplaintifff, and that this ri t could not be defeated y any assignment by
plaintifff ofmhisctjludgment be ore application for the set-ed‘. Porter and Allen
v. Locum’ , . 430.

27. Where a judgment, against which a right to set-of another judgment
rmderedin the same action exists, is assigned, the assignee may _be brought
gto the C0 n a proceeding, by petitgin 33d motion, and will be bound

anorder ethereindirectingaset-o. . .

28. When a creditor, having a debt due him by mortgage, assigns the debt

 a a ju ent in favor of a third person against the_ creditor,
by the tor after the assignment, but before notice of it to him,

constitutes an odset pro gttanéoaltomtéhe debt in an action upon it by the altngnee' . Mc0abe 17. Grey, . . - .

29. The purchaser of a judgment on sale under execution and levy, takes an
assignee,_only  that a judgment is the subject of levy and sale.
The aherid as saéle of a judggent pajlses no tiltgecoatllrmgatshan would pass by an

' t e owner. are 7. anlove, . .

3). Aejliidganent is not negotiable like a  of ex _ by the law

merchant, but is a mere chose in action, ves an equitab e right in the

‘ e thereof to the proceedings of it, with a right to the usual and

means of collecting the amount due; and between two bona fide purchasers of a judgment, the purchaser first in time is prior in right. Id.

§ 6. 1 Executor, trustee, etc., may sue without joining the persons
beneficially interested.

An executor or administrator, or trustee of an express

‘trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute, may sue,

without joining with him the person or persons for whose
benefit the action is prosecuted. A trustee of an express trust,
within the meaning of this section, shall be construed to include a person with whom, or in whose name, a contract is
made for the benefit of another.

‘Amended 1854, 84. A plicable to Justices’ Courts: N. Y. Code, 9 113.
Abb. Forms, Nos. 174, 17 , 185 and 187.

1. Executor and administrator, plai.ntin’.——An administrator, by our
statute, being entitled to possession of the real estate of the deceased, may
maintain ejectment. Curtis v. Her-rich, 14 Cal. 117.

2. Where a atent of land was issued by the United States to executors, and
an executrix o the last will and testament of one H, in trust for the heirs and
devisees of said H, and the executrix subsequently intermarried with one of
the executors: Held, that under the statute of this State the authority of the
executrix ceased by her marriage, and that ejectment based upon the atent
was  prought in the names of the executors. Thschemacher v. hampson, . .

3. Executors have the right to institute actions under the general authority
conferred upon them by the statute. No ial authorization from the Probate Court 18 necessary in such cases. H lc v. Mixer, 16 Cal. 579.

4. A suit in the name of an executor or an administrator is properly brought
at any time before administration is had, or a decree of distribution is made
by the 1;-)obate Court. Curtis v. Sutter, 15 Cal. 259; Teschemalccr v. Thompson,
18 Cal. .

. 5. The Mexican nation made a grant of land to P, which, after the cession
of California to the United States, was conilrmed b decree of the Board of
Land Commissioners, from which an a peal was when to the United States
District Court. Pending the appeal, died, leaving a will. An order was
made in the United States Court, on petition of the heirs of P, and the executors of the estate, substituting the heirs in the proceedings in place of P,
and the Court then confirmed the land to the heirs, and it was surveyed, and
the survey a proved. Subs uently E was appointed administrator, with the
will annex . Held, that the egal title was in the heirs, and that the administrator could not maintain an action to recover possession of the same.
Emertc v. Penniman, 26 Cal. 122; Salmon v. Symonds, 30 Cal. 301.

6. A debt due to the intestate is a personality, and does not descend to the
heir like reality, but vests in the administrator, who has the sole right to
maintain actions to collect the same, and it is error to join the heir as laintin‘ with the administrator in an action to enforce its collection. G1-again v.
Wiggins, 23 Cal. 16.

7. If a arty brings suit on anote made payable to him as administrator,
and is at e time in possession of the same, evidence is not admissible on
behalf of the defendant to prove that the plaintiff is not the real party in
interest, even if the money loaned for which the note was given belonged to
the estate of the deceased. Corcoran v. Doll, 32 Cal. 82.

8. The action for the foreclosure of a mortgage upon real property is not
brought for the possession merely of the property, except as such possession
may follow the sherifs or master's deed, ut to subject to sale the title which
the mortgagor had at the time of executing the mortgage, and to cut off the
rights of parties subsequently becoming interested in e premises; and executors an administrators do not possess the title, but only a temporary right
to the possession. Burton v. Lies, 21 Cal 87.

9.Inthis8tateacivilactiont'ordamages!'orthedeathofa ncanbe
maintained only by the administrator or executor of the d . Kramer v.
Mirlcet Street Railroad Company, 25 Cal. 435.

10. Executor and adininistrator, defendant'.—lt was necessary to file this
bill and make the administrator, the widow and the infant parties, to rebut the
presumption of ownership on the part of the estate, arising from the fact that
the real estate stood upon the record in the name of deceased, and the administrator had ' n of the personal property. These ob'ects could onlybe‘
accomplish by proceedings in the District Court, as the hate Court did
not possess the 'udicial means of giving relief. Gray v. Palmer, 9 Cal. 616.

11. In case 0 joint and several contracts, an administrator cannot be joined
with the survivor. Humphreys v. Crane, 5 CaL 173.

12. In actions upon 'oint and several contracts or obligations, an adininistrator cannot be join with the survivor, because the one is 'oined dc bonis
tsstatoris, and the other dc bonis propriis. Ma v. Hanson, 6 C 642.

13. In this State, all the property, both r and personal, belonging to the
state of a deceased person, goes into the possession of the administrator,
whois, thereforee, a necessary party to all suits adecting it. Harwood v. Marge,
8 Cal. 580 ;9 Cal. 123.

LL The general right to sue an administrator was taken away by the statue.
The claimant must present his claim, otherwise he can maintain no action
thereon against an administrator or executor. Wood’s Dig. 404, § 136. Mortgaand liens of record form no exce tion to the rule. Ellissen v. Halleclc, 6
393; Falkner v. Folsom, Id. 412; entschv. Porter, 10 Id. 559 ; 27 Cal. 354.

15. Where an administrator does not set n his privileges by demurrer or
answer, but su&‘ers judgment to go b defa t, it is a confession that he is
properly sued. Hentsch v. Porter, 10 . 555.

1 . In an action to recover judgment on a promissory note, the suggestion of
the death of the defendant. and the substitution of his administrator and the
continuance of the suit against him, subjects the proceedings to such rules of
the Probate Act as are applicable to proceedings for the collection of claims
against an estate of a deceased person. Meyers v. Mott, 29 Cal. 359.

17. Though the defendant in such an action be described in the caption of
the complaint as administrator, yet the facts show that it is not sought to charge
him as administrator, and no relief is sought against the estate. Held. that the
objection that he is sued in his representative capacity is untenable. People v.
Hmghtaling, 7 Cal. 348 ; Lathrop v. Bampton, 31 Cal. 17.

18. Trustee of an express trust, who is.-—Bonds taken in the name of
the people of the State for the benefit of others should be prosecuted, not in the
Iétallne (if the people, but in that of the party in interest. Baker v. Bartel, 7

. 55 .

l 19. Defendants were the holders of a mortgage executed h the Yreka Water
Company and B.to them, to secure advances made and to e made by themselves and others, to said company. Plaintiff had made advances to the company, and was one of the persons intended to be secured by the mortgage,
though not a party thereto. Defendants assign the mortgage, receive. the consideration therefore, but refuse to pay any portion of the money to plaintiii‘, who
sues for money had and received to his use. Held, that the action lies ; that
defendants are in possession of money which, in equity and conscience, they are
bound to pay over. Held ilirther, that defendants occupied toward laintitf the
position of trustees, and that the money sued for was received in at character 5 that it is of no consequence that the trust was created by a contract to which
plaintid was not a party, as he subsequently assented to it, and defendants cannot now repudiate t and retain mone which they would not otherwise have
received. Kreutz v. Livingston, 15 Ca . 344. .

20. Where a note is made payable to W. for the benetit of another person, W.
is a trustee of an express trust within the meaning of the sixth section of the

Practice Act, and as such is entitled to sue upon the note. Winters v. Bush,

Oct. '1‘. 1867.
21. Trustee, who is iiot—An attorney in fact does not hold the character

of trustee, and is not a necessary party to a suit, to represent the interest of the
4 a .

principal. Powell v. Boss, 197.
22. A guardian of an infant appointed by the Probate Court is not a trustee

of an express trust within the meaning of section six of the Practice Act. Foo:
7. Minor, 32 Cal. 111.

§ 7. [1867—8.] When a married woman is a party-—actions by
and against.

When a married woman is a party, her husband shall be
joined with her, except: .

1st. When the action concerns her separate property or
her right or claim to the homestead property, she may sue

alone.
2d. When the action is between herself and her husband

she may sue or be sued alone.

Amended Stat. 1867-8, 550. A plicable to Justices’ Courts: See N. Y.
Code, § 114, Abb. Forms, Nos. 19 -200.

1. This section oonst:-ued.—'l‘he seventh section of the Practice Act places
married women, in respect to the cases therein mentioned, upon a common level
with all other parties to actions, and imposes on them the responsibilities it imposes on other parties. Leonard v. Townsend, 26 Cal. 442.

2. When husband and wife shall be joined.—The law which deprived a
married woman of the right to make contracts, is not altered by the statute, unless in respect to the property specified by it, and she cannot bring suit in her
own name upon a contract which she was not authorized by the statute to
make. Snyder v. Webb, 3 Cal. 83.

3. A femme covert cannot contract under the laws of this State, so as to render her liable in a suit at law. Rowe v. Kofile, 4 Cal. 286.

4. A wife cannot sue alone to recover the homestead; it is a joint estate,
with right of survivorship, and both husband and wife must join in the action.
Poole v. Gerrard, 6 Cal. 71.

5. When the homestead was claimed by the husband in an action in which he
was alone defendant,’to foreclose a mortgage made by him alone since hi marriage, neither the rights of the husband or wife could be aifected by the proceedings in that case, the wife not being a party. Legal proceedin s, to be
conclusive against either, must embrace both. Revallc v. Kraemer, 8 al. 66.

6. In an action against the husband alone, the homestead right cannot be
determined. Both "es must be before the Court. Id. 74.

7. The homes right cannot be individually asserted; both parties must

Ic

join. Cook v. Klin , Cal. 347.
8. In an action to foreclose a me e against a husband where the defendant sets u the right of homestead, e Court should order the wife of defendant to be brought in as a party, as no decision upon the uestion of homestead can be conclusive, either upon the husband or the ' e, unless both are
parties. Marks and Wife v. Marsh, 9 Cal. 96; Sargent v. Wilson, 6 Cal. 504.
9. Where suit is brought in the name of the hue nd and wife, and no objection is made to the joinder of the wife, and judgment is obtained, and
afterward defendant executes an undertaHng on ap eal to the husband and
wife, and suit is afterward brought onthe unde ' in the name of the
husband and wife: Held, that the defendants are conclu ed bti the acts of ‘the

a and that the wife is perly joined in the suit on e undertalnng.
Tmhclzanfd Wife v. Darling, 9  278.

10. An action brought by the husband and wife against a steamer for breach
of a contract to carry the wife to New York via Nicaragua, the  breach
consisting in _ ' the wife to Panama, and causing her detention there

and consequent ess, and other injuries, though based on a contract, sounds

intart, andthewifeisapro andneceseary ' us. Women-and W‘ av.
 ' Uncle Sam, 9 Cal.  phm if

11. The wife is a proper defendant in a suit to foreclose a mortgage
executed upon premises claim as a homestead. If not made such a party
she may intervene, or, by permission of the Court, be allowed to file a separate answer, the plaintin‘ having the liberty to amend his complaint if any
matters are set up in the answer which he might wish to anticipate by further

' us. Most v. Warner and ll ifs, 10 Cal. 296.

. The wife has no rightin the homestead, independent of the husband,
which she can enforce against his consent. She cannot maintain a suit for it
in her  name. Guiod v. G-uiod, 14 Cal. 506. .

13. Where suit is brought against a female who subsequently marries, her
husband gust be made co-defeiidant. list this glhould be done, and an bayvermento ema:-rings‘ made,yasup emen complain't,an not an
::engmCe:lit $8 the original. Van llhrcn v. Johnson, 15 Cal. 308; Kaye v. Phe1 . .

14. In an action bybtloi; wifzh for money, whichhwhentrorclsootyetilledil will be his:
separate per-ty,suj to emanagementan con 0 e usband,
is  with her as plaintim Id. _

5. a suit to foreclose a mortgage executed by the husband to plamii,
the wife may be made defendant if she claim the premises as her separate
, by virtue of a revious conveyance from the husband to her.

v. Ashenaibr, 17 . 578.

16. Husband and wife must join in an action for an injury done to the per»
sonof thelatter, anditisimmaterialthatthe injuryischargedto havebeen
écgimitted in violation of a contract. Sheldon v. Steamer Uncle Sam, 18 Cal.

17. When husband and wife cannot be jotlned.—Husband and wife
cannot recover jointly in an action by them an contractu for the breach of a
contract made with defendant for the transportation of the wife from San
Francisco to New York. Sheldon v. Steamship Uncle Sam, 18 Cal. 626.

18. In a suit for es to the common property, the wife should not be
a , andif somade ecom laintisdemurrable. Id. '

9. t if, in such action, no emurrerbe interposed, and if the facts stated
and proven show that plaintids are entitled to relief for fraud racticed by
defendant, or for personal inj to the wife, then the action to t t extent is
well brought, and relief will no be denied on the ground that the same facts
would an action on the contract in which the husband alone can reQVCI. .

N. When husband must sue alone.—-For injury efected by deceit or
otherwise, to the common property, or business carried on by means of the
common property, the remeggis by the husband alone, without the wife.
Barrett v. The , 18 Cal. .

21. Husband an wife cannot recover jointly in an action by them ca: con-e
trusts for the breach of a contract made with defendant for the rtation
(lag  wsiafg from San Francisco to New York. Sheldon v. Steamer ncle Sam,

22. So, where plaintiiIs—husband and wife—bring an action of da es
for deceit, the complaint averring in effect that defendant's wife execute a
deed of a certain lot to plaintims, who paid therefore $3,000—the purchase betugs induced by the fraudulent representations of defendant that his wife’:
ti was. perfect, etc.—and also that in consequence of this title pro '
wortfiless, plaintils lost the lot, with valuable improvements by them pltrcles
thereon, and that their business of hotel keeping conducted thereon, and of

street grading connected therewith, was destroyed, etc.: Edd, that demurrer
for minjoinder of plaintiffs, lies; that the monengiid for the lot, the lot itself,
and the business, are, on the face of the comp t, common ‘property, there
being no averment that the wife had any separate interest in
thebnsiness. Baa-rcttv. Ilnnlcsbury, 18Cal. 334.

23. Whenhusbsnd andvvife mayjcnlnorbejo:lned.—The Practiceact

e money or in

gives to a married woman the right to sue without her husband, where the
action concerns her separate estate. Snyder v. Webb, 3 Cal. 83.

24. The Practice Act ‘ts the wife to sue alone when the action is
between herself and her usband. If it is necessary to introduce other ties, their introduction cannot affect her rights. Kashaw v. Kashaw, 3 Cal. 312.

25. In the exceptional cases mentioned in section seven of the Practice Act,
the statute is not obligatory on the wife to sue or defend alone; it confers
only a privilege which in many cases it maybe important for her to assert for
the protection of her interests, and in the exercise of which the fullest liberty
should be accorded her. When the action concerns her separate property,
and is not between herself and her husband, she may sue with or without
him. Van Maren v. Johnson, 15 Cal. 308.

26. When the action concerns the separate property, she may seek the aid
of the Court with or without the aid of her husband. Id.

27. Where the wife executed and delivered to defendant a deed of her separate property in consideration of his promise to pay her five hundred dollars,
and sues for the money, alleging that it has not been aid, and that she has
never consented, orally or in writin , that her husban might receive or use
it: Hold, that although his misjoin er as laintid‘ is not ground of demurrer,
still, if the money has been paid to him, at fact may constitute a defense to
the action. Kaye v. Phetan, 19 Cal. 128.

28. In an action brought to recover the purchase mone of a lot belo '
to a married woman as her separate property, the husban may join with er,
but his nonjoinder is not a ground or demurrer. Kays v. Phelan, Oct. 1861.

29. The husband of a married woman is pro rly joined with her as a parfy
defendant in an action upon a partnership 0 ligation contracted by the ' e
and third persons as Em-tners revious to the marriage and while she was a
femme sole. Keller v. iclcs, 22 al. 457.

30. The fact that a wife executes a mortgage with her husband, is a sumcient reason for maln'ng her a party defendant along with her husband in an
action to foreclose the same without any all tion as to her interest in the
properfymortgaged. Anthon v. N e, 30 Cal. 1.

3 . e wife may join wi her usband as co-plaintiff in an action to
recover possession of her separate estate, but is not required to do so. She
may sue alone. Calderwood v. Pyser, 31 Cal. 333.

32. If the promissory note is the separate pro rty of the wife, suit may
be brought on it in her name alone, or e husban and wife may sue jointly.
Corooran V. Doll, 32 Cal. 82.

83. Wife, when she must be sued alone.-—In an action ' t a married woman, all ed to be a sole trader under the Act of Ap , 1852, on a
contract execu by her as such, it is improper to join her husband with her
as defe(i3icl1anté7and a complaint so drawn is demurrable. McKunc v. McGarvey, 6 a . 4 .

34. In an action brought a married woman concerning property belong: g to her as sole trader,  tléle  of 1852, the husband need not be
Joined. Guttfnan v. Scannell, C . .

o 35. A married woman who became a sole trader under the Act of 1852, for
the purpose_of keeping a public house_ and farming, could lawfully execute
and deliver in her own name, a valid_ promissory note, for the urchase
money of land conveyed to her for use in said business, and could so execute, in her own name, a valid mortgage on the same to secure the purchase
money. Camden v. Mullen, 29 Cal. .

36. Prochein amt d.iscarded.—The object of the act is to take away the
necessity of suing by proclicin ami, and be’ a remedial statute, must be
beneficially construed. Kashaw v. Kashaw, Cal. 312.

37. A uggmentforcosu may be rendered agams' t a married woman.
Leonard v. oumsend, 26 Cal. 442.

§ 8. If husband and wife be sued together, the wzjfe may de-'
fend.

If a husband and wife be sued together, the wife may defend for her own right.

Applicable to J ustices’ Courts.

1. Where the defense of the wife is a special one, she can defend for her
own right, as well when sued jointly as if the trial was separate. Duprez v.
Duprez, 5 Cal. 387.

2. When the wife is made a party defendant with her husband, it is no ob n to the right of the plaintifff to recover, that the wife was denied the

tof a separate trial. .Id.

3. To enable her to defend in her own right, she must possess as defendant
therightaof afemmesole, andbeabletomakeasbin ' admissionsinwriting in the action as other parties. Alderson v. Bell, 9 C . 315.

§ 9. Infant to appear by guardian.

When an infant is a party, he shall appear by guardian ,

who may be appointed by the Court in which the action is
prosecuted, or by a Judge thereof, or a County Judge.

Applicable to Justices’ Courts. See N. Y. Code, § 115. For San Francisco, see Rules of Court, XXX, XXXI, XXXII.

1. Where a will appoints a guardian, there is no necessity for the issuance

of any leuers of guardianship to authorize the guardian to act. The ian’s authority comes directly from the will. on-is v. Harris, 15 Cal. 55.

2. The Court has no right togppoint a guardian ad litem, until the infant is
prope‘i-vii brought into Court. ray v. Palmer, 9 Cal. 616.

3. ere the igltiarest of the min(p1i‘-I’ requires it, the (Em inthwhich an action is ' ' point a guar ' n ad lilem, even ou e minor may
have aglilglrgfguargn. Gronjier v. Puymisol, 19 Cal. 62S?.h

4. In suit for artition against infants who appeared by guardians ad litem,
and answered’ enying that plaintifff was owner, and that one W, was of a
portion, and the Court rendered a decree forever barring all defendants of
any claim to the premises : Held, said decree to be coram nonjudioe and void;
that the guardians ad litem had no power to admit away by their answer the
rights of the infants, and the Court had no power to give efect to such admission, as it is a matter not within the scope of their a pointment, or the
purview of the corn laint. Waterman v. Lawrence, 19 Call.) 210.

5. Guardians ad item appointed to represent an infant in a case of partition, have power to defend for the infant solely against the claim set up for

paration o the common estate; and their acts beyond this special limited
power are void. Id.

6. Under our statutes, the disability of infancy attaches as well to a femme
covertunder age, as to a femme sole, subject only to the Act of 1858, 108;
which makes married women under ei teeen, and married with the ,consent

olgs their parent or guardian, of full an lawful age. Magoo V. Welsh, 18 Cal.

7. A general guardian of an infant has authority to institute an action on
behalf of his ward, and where the body of the complaint shows the general
guardianshi of the laintiti‘; a mistake in the designation of the plaintiff as
‘ Klan in e title of the action is one of no importance. Spear v.

ard, £3 Cal. 660.

8. A guardian of an infant cannot sue in his own name to recover money
due the infant. Such action must be brought in the name of the infant by
his guardian. Foe: v. Minor, 32 Cal. 111.

9. When the infant heir was sued upon a specially obligation of the ancestor

ble upon the inheritance, he mi ht pray that the proceedi be stayed
' he should attain his majority. 's privilege was confine to the heir
alone, and did not extend to devisees. Joyce v. McAvoy, 31 Cal. 273.

10. Courts of equity, in cases where the equigy depended upon the liability
of the heir to pay out of the descended assets opted a similarpractice; and
ina certain class of cases adecting the title of infantsto real estate, by a kind
of analogy to this practice, courts of equity adopted another rule by which
aclause wasinsertedinthe decreegivingtheinfantadayafter becomingage
to show cause against it. Id.

§ 10. Guardian, how appointed.

The guardian shall be appointed as follows :

lst. When the infant is plaintifff, upon the application of
the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years ; or if under
that age, upon the application of a relative or friend of the
infant.

2d. When the infant is defendant, upon the application of
the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, and apply
within ten days after the service of the summons; if he be
under the age of fourteen, or neglect so to apply, then upon
the application of any other party to the action, or of a relative or—friend of the infant.

A ‘cable toJustices’ Courts. N. Y. Code, § 116, Abb. Forms, No. 66-98.
1. e provisions of this and the eceding section relating to the appointment of guardians ad litem, where ingnts are parties, only apply where there
icsalngggeneral guardian, or where he does not act Gronjier v. Puymisol, 19
2. A general guardian of an infant has authority to institute an action on
 of his ward, and where the body of the complaint shows the general
guardianshi of the laintih‘, a mistake in the desi tion of the plaintifff as
 Cgin t e title of the action, is one o no importance. Spear v.
ard, 2 . .

§ 11. Father or mother may maintain action for injury to child.

A father, or in case of his death or desertion of his family,
the mother, may maintain an action for the injury or death
of a child ; and a guardian for the injury or death of his ward.

Applicable to Justices’ Courts. See Hittell's Dig. Par. 2325-2327; same
Stat. 1862, 447.

1. The eleventh section of the Practice Act, which provides that the father,
or, in case of his death or desertion of his famil , the mother, may maintain
an action for the injury or death of a child, an a guardian for the injury or
death of his ward, does not create a right of action where none existed
before, but merely designates the persons by whom an action, for the causes
therein mentioned, which then existed, or ' ht thereafter be created h
statute, should be brought. Kramer v. Lfarlcet treat R. R. 00., 25 Cal. .

2. At the time the Practice Act was passed, the death of a person constituted no cause of action; and the eleventh section of that Act, so far as it
designates the parties by whom an action for the death of a person may be
brought, is repealed by the Act of 1862, which rovides that “ every such
action shall be brought by and in the names of e personal representatives
of such deceased person.’ Id.

3. A civil action for damages for the death of a person per so, cannot be

maintained by anyone at common law; and in this State it can be maintained
only by the administrator or executor of the deceased. Id.

4. An action for the death of a person can only be maintained in this State
by virtue of the revisions of the Act entitled “ An Act requiring compensation for causing eath b wrongful act, neglect, or defaul ”—passed April 26,
1862. (Statutes of 186‘ , p. 44 .)

§ 12. Who may be joined as plainlzfs.

All persons having an interest in the subject of the action
and in obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined as
plaintifffs, except when otherwise provided in this Act.

N. Y. Code, § 117. Applicable to Justices’ Courts.

1. See further 54, ante, “ Real parties in interest,” for proper parties
plaintin.
2. Administrators may sue, wlien.—8ee § 6, ante.

3. Ac1:'iontoquiett:ltleto1and.—Seepost, 9254.

4. G-enerally.—A bill in equity is not multifarious if there is a common
liability in the defendants, and a common interest in the plaintifffs, or if the
interest of the plaintids are the same, and the defendants have not a coextensive common interest, but their interests are acquired under different
instruments from the same source of title. Wilson v. Castro, 31 Cal. 420.

5. Parties who have a common interest in annulling a patent, although they
have no joint interest in the land adverse to the patentee, may be joined as
plaintifffs in action to procure its cancellation. People v. Merrill, 26 Cal. 352.

6. If A enters into a contract with B, for the conveyance of a tract of land,
whereby B acquires a iight to a conveyance of the entire tract, and B afterwards asigns to two or more persons, giving to each a separate conveyance of
his equitable title to distinctand separate parcels of the land, the assignees of
B may maintain a 'oint action against A for a specinc performance of the
contract. Owen v. ‘Me, 24 Cal. 177.

7. If private citizens have an interest in the lands granted by a patent, am‘
are threatened with injury b the patent, the information shoul be filed in the
name of one or more of su persons, rovided they are without ad uate
remedy at law ; and in such _case the re tor's personal complaint sho d be
joined to and incorporated with the information. People v. Stratton, 25 Cal. 244.

8. Several rsons may be joined as plaintiffs to enforce their liens in the
suit under the §echanic's Lien Law, although there is no community of interest
betweeen them. Barber v. Reynolds, Oct. . 1867: and see Owen v. Frinlc,
24 Cal. 177, where it is stated that the general rule is, that unconnected parties
may join in bringing a bill in equity, where there is one connected interest
among them all, centering in the pointin issue in the cause.

9. Agent. when he may sue.-—’1‘he note sued on, payable to the plaintin‘,
although it describes him as an agent for another, does not take away the right
of the ent to sue in his own name at law. 0rd v. M:Kee, 5 Cal. 515.

10. ere two persons were employed by the claimants of a tract of land
under a Mexican t, as agents to procure a confirmation of the grant in the
United States, an services are thus rendered, it is individual in its character,
and separate actions may be maintained by such agent for his expenses thus
incurred. Conner v. Hzdchinson, 12 Cal. 127.

11. An agent to whom a check is made payable in his own name may maintain an action thereon. though the debt be due to his principal. 2 Bosw. 471;
Fish v. Jacobson, 5 Bosw. 51 .

12. A sherlR who has attached property belonging to the defendant in the
hands of a third person, ma bring any action necessary to obtain possession
of such party. Kelly v. reusing, 32 Barb. 601.

13. ere the principals are minors, it was held that the agent might sue

upon a contract made with him as such, and by which he was personally bound,
without any assignment from the principals. Nelson v. N iron, 13 Abbott, 104.
14. The uncontroverted allegations in a complaint of a sale of goods by the
laintin‘ as the factor or agent of his princi al, and the promise of the defentto pa the plaintiff for them, are cient to vest the plaintifff with a

ri ht tgaco ect and sue for the price in his own name. Reilly v. Cook-, 22

ow. .

15. The agent of a foreign corporation may maintain an action in his own
name upon a subscription note payable to the laintiff, as “executive agent of
the compailigy for stock of the corporation to issued to the signer." Considerant v. risbane, 22 N. Y. 389.

16. Agent, when he cannot sue.—An agent, ordinarily, cannot sue in his
own name in res t to the subfct-matter _of his agency, and this rule applies
to consignees an indorsees of ills of lading, when they are in truth but the

ents of the ship . Linclcer v. Ayeshfor , 1 Cal. 75. H purchased goods
0 P and M, wliic were consi ed to P_, an agent; H failing to pay for the

oods upon delivery,_P broug _t an action to recover the u_rchase money;

eld, that P had no right of action in his own name. Semb , if the purchase
had been made directly from P, although the goods belonged to another, the
rule would bedifferent. _PhilIips v. _Henshaw, Cal. 509. _ _

17._A, of Liverpool, shi p_ed_certain goods to San Francisco, and indorsed
the bills of lading to the £25 aintiff, his agent, and became a bankrupt before the
arrival of the goods. If , it appearing on the face of the com laint that the
plaintifff was a_ mere naked agent of the shi pers,_ that he con (1 not recover
the oods in his own name of the master of e Shli, who claimed to hold the

for the assignment in bankruptcy of A. Line er v. Ayeshford, 1 Cal. 78.

18. The indorsement of a bill of lading prima acie vests the property in

the oods mentioned therein in the indorsee, but a ill of lading is not a negotiabfe instrument, so far as to enable an indorsee who has no property, either

general or special, in the gplods, and no lien thereon for advance or otherwise,
to sue the master of the s 'p in his own name for non-delive of the goods,
when itappears on the face of the complaint that the plainti , the indorsee,
is a mere naked agent of the shippers. Id.

19. When the principal may sue on contracts made with the agents.
A principal may sue in his own name on a contract in writing made and
signed by his agent without disclosing his principal; but, in order to maintain
the action, the rincipal must show the agency, and the ower of the agent
to bind him at t e time. But, in such a case, the defentfant may make the
same defenses against the newly discovered princi as he could against the
agent with whom he dealt as principal. Ruiz v. orton, 4 Cal. 358.

20. Under the one hundred and fifty-fourth section of the Act of 1856 (370),
the person entitled to recover the penalty is the party who contracts or ofers
to contract for the transmission of the dispatch. He ma , probably, do this
by his agent or servant. But when the contract is made y a part as agent
of another, in order to give a right of action to the princi al, t e fact of
agency must be shown. Thurn v. Alla Telegraph 00., 15 Cal. 72.

21. A princi al has a right to waive a tort against his factor, and bring an
action to comppdf him to account, and for the net proceeds arising from the
sales, when the plaintifff can only recover the net proceeds of sales effected by

him, after deducting necessary charges and commissions. Lubert v. Chautateau, 3 Cal. 462.

22. The owner of a ship chartered by and in the name of his agent, may,
although he is not mentioned in the charter art ', be shown by extrinsic evidence to be the principal in the contract, ancl)  be allowed to avail himself
of its provisions. Brooks v. Minturn, 1 Cal. 482.

23. Assignee and lndorsee.—An assignment of a contract as a security
for a debt, and also in consideration of a covenant not to sue upon the debt,

entitles the assignee to sue on the contract in his own name. Warner v.
Wilson, 4 Cal. 310.

24. An ement to pay a certain sum of money to a defendant, if he
would with w his defense to a suit, is assignable, and such assignment

gee a right of action in the name of the assignee. Gray v. Garrison, 9 Cal.

25. Under our statute of April, 1850, the holder of a non-negotiable note
has a right of action, not only against his immediate assignor, but also against
previous assignors; in short, against every n from whom the note has

passed b ' ent. Hamilton v. McD , 18 Cal. 128.
26 To enable the assignee of a judgment to sue on the appeal bond filed in

the cause, he must have an assignment of the bond. Moses v. Thorns, 6 Cal. 88.
27. Personal property beyond the limits of this State, assi ed in trust to
pay the creditors of the assignor and assignee, both resi ' and being
at the time in the foreign jurisdiction where the property was, an possession
 taken by the latter, vests in the assignee according to the lea: loci, and
title wgll buewlmii1i:;it(:3i$eg4l£ere against execution creditors of the assignor.
Forbes v. ca , . .

28. The holder of negotiable paper, indorsed before maturity, is supposed
to be the bona jide owner of the same, and all intendments are in favor of his
rig2h3t'  V. 030%?’ ticilii  f f such holder to r but which

. e resump 0110 e wisin avoro , e
it is necessary to show by competent testimotilily that he is not the bona yids
l£i‘cgtd€rr(,) or tlhilathtfilei npate was not lindofrsed unI'd after maturity, or some other
mw'c te wwillimpya rand. .
g 30. Under our system of practice, an action ma be brought in the name of
the assignee as the party benenciall interested. heatlgv. Strobe, 12 Cal. 98.

31. Where B sells and delivers C certain person property, with an

*..‘.’a°?a“”1§”‘.a§’.’g°’€o “i‘é“""m‘..’-’“‘ Ct.“ ”°a”°1§°°"b‘““‘ ’°'?1°“tZ§E2£°?§3§‘E’§n

eve ce nno s,an suseueny s o

demands the property, and C refuses to take e notes or surrender the prop_erty, and the whole transaction on the part of C was a fraud, his intention
3213.5 *§a§23‘3l§. °€i§‘“§’w§2‘i.¥’uvt;1?°u§’§’§Z.‘iv’“.".£ o1§°.'.‘.'i iii? i32°c‘£§§ 3.333
them; that the fraud takes the case out of the ‘rule that a tender of s ciilc
pgréonilialmproperty vests the title thereto in the tenderee. Lamott v. ,

32. An assignment by a creditor of a portion of a debt does not make the
assignee a joint owner of the whole debt, and he is not a necessary party to
a suit for its recovery. Leese v. Sherwood, 21 Cal. 162.

33. An absolute assignment of a demand enables the assignee to sue for
and recover the whole debt, even though by the assi ent he acquired only
a portion of the demand. Gradwohl v. Harris, 29 Ca . 150.

34. Where a new romise is made to the pa ee of a promissory note, the
indorsee, to whom e note is afterwards trans erred, may maintain an action
upon it. He succeeds, in such cases, to the rights of the payee. Same rule

holds where a new promise is relied on to obviate a discharge in insolvency.
Smith v. Richmond, 19 Cal. 476.

35. Bill of Iaading.—Where a suit is brought upon a bill of lading to the
laintiif 'ointly with another, the plaintiil‘ has no separate cause of action.
&iyo v. Atansbury, 3 Cal. 465.

36. Contracts.—Where a joint contract was made b .M and C for the

‘purchase of a quantity of ilour of defendants, and the efendants delivered

one portion of the flour to M and another to C on their respective orders,
and received pa cut for the same from them severally, and settled with O,
and then cance ed the contract with regard to him, and M afterwards sued
for damages alleged to have been sustained by him alone on the contract:
Held, that if plaintifff relied upon the ori 'nal contract between him and C,
and the defendants, he could not sue wi out joining G in the action. HeGil v. Moo:-head, 3 Cal. 267.

37. ere T and O executed a joint lease to L to certain premises, and
it was ' ed in the lease that twenty dollars rent should be paid to T and
twenty llars to C, and on breach of the terms of the lease on the part of
the lessee, T and C, the lessors, brought a joint suit to recover the rent and
restitution of the premises : Held, that there was no misjoinder of parties
plaintiff. Trent and Flower v. Liddell, 10 Cal. 302.

38. Counties.—~Suit brought for or ainst a coun shall be by or in the
name of such county. Statutes of 1 p. 194; ood’s Dig., p. 249, Art.

1377.

39. A co is a corporation, and is the proper  to object to
a contract in e by the Board of Supervisors for ‘ding a jail. Smith v.
Myers, 15 Cal. 33.

40. The people of a county are not a co ration, nor are they recognized in
law as capable of suing or being sued. I . 34.

41. Under the Act of April, 1854, counties have the right of prosecuting
and defending)‘; ‘cm in the same manner as individuals. Placer County v.
Astin, 8 Cal. .

42. An action upon a recognizance given in a criminal case is properl com?)e1(1}ced igzthe name of the county as plaintiff. Mendocino County v. mar,

al. 6 .

43. Counties are quasi corporations, and can sue and be sued. Price v. Sacramento County, 6 Cal. 254.

44. An action against a defaulting Treasurer and his sureties for money belonging to the county of Sacramento, if the defalcation occurred after the
passage of the Act of April 25, 1863, providing for the government of the
county of Sacramento, is pro rly brought in the name of the Board of
Supervisors of the coun of acramento, instead of that of the People of
the State of California. acramento County v. Bird, 31 Cal. 66.

45. If the complaint on the oiiicial bond of a County Treasurer avers that
the money for which the Treasurer is in default belong to the county, the
action isaproperly brought in the name of the county. endocino County v.
Morris, Cal. 145.

46. An action may be bro ht in the name of a county to recover mone
belonging to the general fun of the county. Solano Co. v. Ncvil, 27 C .
468. See the case of Sharp v. The County of Contra Costa, Oct. T., 1867.

47. Counties, actions by and against.—Hittell’s Dig., paragraphs 1207,
1212. See further ante, No. 38.

48. Ejectment.——Actions of ejectment must be prosecuted in the name of
the real party in interest. Ritchie v. Dorland, 6 Cal. 33.

49. In ejectment for common property, the action should be in the name of
the husband alone. But if the wife be joined, the misjoinder is no und of
nonsuit on the trial, though it would be ground of demurrer if the efect a
peared on the face of the complaint, or for motion to dismiss, as to the will;
on the trial. Mott v. Smith, 16 Cal. 533.

60. In this State, all the property, both real and personal, belonging to the
estate of a deceased person, goes into the possession of the administrator,
who is, thereforee, a necessary party to all suits aiecting it. Harwood v.
Marya, 8 Cal. 580; and see further ante, § 6, No. 2.

51. The statute which gives the possession and control of real pro rty belonging to intestates to their administrators, until administration oiwthe ‘estate and distribution of the property are had, only apgzlies to cases arising
since the statute was passed. oto v. Kroder, 19 Cal. .

52. In this State, a plaintifff claiming as heir-at-law can recover in an action of ejectment without an entry u on the premises after the death of his
ancestor. It is suiiicient that he ow his title as heir to the premises demanded. Id. .

53. A tract of land was held by several tenants in common, and, on partition, a certain rtion was set apart and quit-claimed to plaintin‘, re resenting M, who h conveyed to plamtiii‘ as security for indorsements. other
portion of the land was set apart and quit—c1aimed to H. The portion thus
received by H was subseaiiiaently conveyed to plaintifff, and embraces the land
in controversy. Held, t plaintin‘ is not mo e of the premises;
that even if he held the premises conveyed by H to ‘m as security for the
indorsements of M, it was as trustee of the legal title; that the title had

from H, and had never been in M, except of an undivided interest
ore the partition, and was, thereforee, in plaintid, who could maintain
ejectment. Seaward v. Malotte, 15 Cal. 304.

5-1. All persons holdin as tenants in common, joint tenants, or coparceners, or any number less an all, may, jointly or severally, bri or defend
any civil action for the enforcement or protection of the rights 0 such party.
Statutes of 1857, 62.

55. One tenant in common may sue a party in ssion by adverse claim,
and recover the remises, if plaintifff represents e better title. Collier v.
Corbett, 15 Cal. 133.

56. Such grantee, though seized in fee of only an undivided interest in the
particular parcel of land, may recover in ejectment the whole of that parcel,
as against all persons except the original cotenant and his antees. He is
entitled to the possession of the entire remises as ' st other parties.
Stark v. Barrett, 15 Cal. 361; 20 Cal. 1 2; 21 Cal. .

57. A non-resident alien may doubtless maintain ejectment. People v.
Rogers, 13 Cal. 165.

58. The heir has a right of entry upon the real estate left by his ancestor,
subject only to the statutory right of the administrator; and where there is
no administrator the heir can maintain ejeotment. Updegraf v. Traslc, 18
Cal. 458; Estate of Woodzcorth, 31 Cal. 604. '

59. Executor, trustee, etc.— Vzde t 6.

60. Patherormother. See§1l.

61. Poreclosure.—'I'he question whether the plaintifff had the right to go
into equity and foreclose the mortgage given to the principal to secure the
note, depends upon the fact whether he was really interested in the subject
matter. Ord v. McKee, 5 Cal. 515.

62. Where a mortgage is given to secure the separate debts of several persons as mortgagees, it is a several securit , and may be enforced by each creditor. as in case of a separate mortgage. at when other parties are interested
in the property, the Court will require them to be brought in before ordering a
sale or foreclosure. Yyler v. Yreloa Water 00., 14 Cal. 212.

63. Where thirteen persons made a joint and several promissory note, payable to three of their number, and all joined in the execution of a mortgage to
secure the payment of the note—the plaintifffs being both payers and payees in
the note. and the mo ors and mortgagees in the mortgage—and, subsequently, the pa ees of t e note brought suit against the other makers, and for
a foreclosure 0 the mortgage: Held, that the suit was roperly brought. and
p:l:lin?t1'8f_f;-3 were entitled to a judgment of foreclosure. cDowell v. Jacobs, 10

64. Where an assignment of a note and mortgage has been made to plaintifffs
to indemnify them as sureties on a bail bond for the assignor. and where suit is
then pending on such bond, it is proper for them, as such assignees, to institute
suit on the note and mortgage; and a decree of foreclosure in such case, with
directions to pay the money into Court, to await the further decree of the Court,
is proper, or at least, there is no error in such a decree to the prejudice of the
defendants. Hunter &: Davis v. Levan and Wife. 11 Cal. 11.

65. A mere stranger, who voluntarily pays money due on a mortga e, and
fails to take an assignment thereof. but allows it to be cancelled and disc arged,
cannot afterwards come into equity, and in the absence of fraud, accident. or
mistake of fact, have the mortgage reinstated, and himself substituted in the
place of the mortgagee. Guy v. Du Uprey, 16 Cal. 195.

66. A note was executed to 0, as the agent of M, and the mortgage to secure
the note was made to M. 0, under a contract with M, was entitled to one-half
of the note : Held, that 0 having a right to the note, had a right to
foreclose the mortgage. 0rd v. McKee, 5 Cal. 516.

67. Praud.—-An action founded upon a fraud cannot be maintained by a
party to the fraud. Dupuy v. Williams, 26 Cal. 313.

68. Indoraec.——See ante, assignee, No. 23.
69. Infant.— Vida § 9.
70. Married Woman.— Vida § 7.

71. Misjoinder, or defect of parties plaintifff. See § 40, note sub. 4.

72. Parties plaintli-—See further, “Real party in interest,” ante § 4.
“Causes of action assignable.” Id. Also § 5.

73. Pai-t:lesr—One or more may sue for all. when.—See post. § 14.

I 74. Party—Who should be joined as plaintli may be made adefendant,
when. See post, § 14.

75. Parties—A11 who are united in interest. should be made plaintimi.
See post§ 14.
76. Part1es.—Court to order parties brought in, when. § 17.

77. Partners.—Partners cannot sue one another for any of the business or
undertakings of the partnership. This can only be done in chancery by asking
for a dissolution and an account. Stone v. Fouse. 3 Cal. 292. _

78. One partner cannot sue the other in an action at law. The remedy is by
bill in equity for a dissolution and an account. Barnstead v. Empire Mining
Company. 5 Cal. 299. _ _

79. One partner cannot sue another for a partnership transaction, without
prayin for an account and a settlement of the partnersh p transactions. Russel v. ord, 2 Cal. 86. ,

80. One partner cannot sustain an action against his copartner for the delivery
of personal property belonging to the partnership. Buckley v. Carl1'sle,2 Cal. 420.

81. Prlest.—The position of a priest who appears to have charge of church
property, coupled with an interest, seems to be nearly analogous to that of a
sole corporation in England, and has power to sue as an inseparable incident
to such corporation. Santillan v. Moses, 1 Cal. 94.

82. Real party in interest. plaintifff. See further § 4 ante, note “Real
party in interest.”

83. Reoogn1zanoe.—See ante, title, “ Counties.”

84. Reward.—An agreement, by one who has lost property by fire or theft,
to pay a certain sum to any one who will secure the arrest and conviction of
the criminal, is not a nude pact; but may be enforced by a person performing
the service. Ryer v. Stoclcwell, 14 Cal. 134.

86. The state.—An action upon a duty due by an auctioneer to the State
under a special statute, not be ng a prosecution, but a civil action for the recovery of money due the State, is properly brought in the name of the State.
State v. Poulterer, 16 Cal. 532. In the absence of any statute, the State cannot
Be sued, and a judgment against her is erroneous. The People v. Talmage, 6

al. 256.

87. In an action brought to annul a patent for land sold without authority of
law, the State, and persons who have a right to mine on the land under the
mining laws of this State, may be joined as plaintifffs. People v. Merrill, 26 Cal.
352 ; Wilson v. Castro, 31 Cal. 420.

88. The Attorney-General is the only person authorized to appear for the
People in the Sn reme Court, and a rivate person cannot at his election use
the name of the eople to obtain re ess for private wrongs. People v. Pacheco, 29 Cal. 210. ‘

89. If the State has no interest in the subject matter, an information on
the relation of the Attorney-General, on behalf of the State, to annul a patent
cannot be sustained. People v. Stratton, 25 Cal. 244.

90. Tenant in common.—§ 1. All persons hol ' as tenants in common,
joint tenants, or co arceners, or any number less an all, may, jointly or
severally, bring or efend any civil action for the enforcement or protection
of the rights o such party. Laws of 1857, p. 62.

§ 1. Any two or more ersons claiming any estate or interest in lands under
a common source of ti e, whether holding as tenants in common, joint tenants, co-partners, or in severalty, may unite in an action against any person
claiming an adverse estate or interest therein, for the purpose of determining

such adverse claim, or of establishing such common source of title, or of
declaring the same to be held in trust, or of removing a cloud upon the same.

§ This Act shall take effect immediately on its passage. Laws of 1867-8,
1 .

91. A tenant in common of lands, em loyed as agent by special agreement
between himself and co-tenant to take c a e of the land, make sales thereof
at certain prices—receiving a commission 0 hve per cent. on sales-—may sue
his co-tenant for the services rendered, in respect to the land, outside of selling
it. Thompson v. Salmon, 18 Cal. 632. Actions for the diversion of the waters
of ditches are in the nature of actions for the abatement of nuisance, and
may be maintained by tenants in common in a joint action. De Johnson v.

, 5 Cal. 151; Parke v. Kilham, 8 Cal. 79.

92. One of several tenants in common has a right to sue alone for his
moiety. Covillaud v. Thnner, 7 Cal. 38. '

93. Tenants in common in a mine, each owning undivided interests, acquired at diiferent times, may sue jointly to recover ossession of all of their
several undivided interests. Golberv. Fett, 30 Cal. 48 .

94. Tenants in common can unite in this State by statute in an action for

the possession of real property, and the executor of a deceased tenant in
common can unite with the co-tenants of his testator in such actions. Toueliard v. Keyes, 21 Cal. 202.

95. 1‘rover.——All the parties in interest should join in an action of trover.
Whibiey v. Stark, 8 Cal. 514.

96. Trustee, ete.—See ante, § 6.

§ 13. Who may be joined as dcgfendants.

Any person may be made a defendant who has, or claims,
an interest in the controversy adverse to the plaintifff, or who

is a necessary party to a complete determination or settlement
of the question involved therein.

Applicable to Justices’ Courts. N. Y. Code, § 113.

1. Construction of this sectlon.—The thirteenth section of the Practice
Act, which provides that any person may be made defendant who has or
claims an interest in the controversy adverse to the plaintifff, or who is a necessary party to a complete determination of the question involved, has no application to the action of ejectment. It refers to cases in equity. Garner v.
llarshad, 9 Cal. 268; Hawkins v. Richert, 28 Cal. 534.

2. Fictitious defendant. See §69.

3. Misjoinder, or defect of parties defendant. See § 40, sub. 4.

4. Actions in rem. Real estate may be made a party. People v. Rains, 23
Cal. 131.

5. Actions in equity, generally. It is not error to make the real estate a
party, as in proceedings in rem, in an action to collect taxes. Id.

6. All persons materially interested either legally or beneficially in the sub' t matter of a suit in equity, which may be affected by the decree, ought to

made parties, so that there may be a complete decree which shall bind
them all and prevent future litigation. Wilson v._ Castro, 31 Cal. 420.

7. The above rule is somewhat of convenience, and will not be rigidly enforced when its observance would be attended with great inconvenience, and
answer no substantially beneficial purpose. Id. ' ,8. A bill in equity is not multifarious if there is a common liability in the
defendants and a common interest in the plaintifffs, or if the interests of the
plaintids are the same and the defendants have not a coextensive common

interest, but their interests are acquired under different instruments from
the same source of title. Id.

9. Administrator or executor or trustee of an express trust. Vida § 6.

10. Action to quiet title to land. See post, § 254.

11. Attorney at 1aw.—W'here an attorney is charged with being a party to
a fraud in obtaining a judgment for his client, in a suit brought to set aside
the 'ud ent, he may be roperly joined with his client as defendant. Crane
v. irs felder, 17 Cal., 

12. Bond holders, when should be made parties. Hutchinson v. Burr, 12
Cal. 103; Patterson v. Y uba County, Id. 105.

13. Poreolosure.—The general rule of Courts in Equity in foreclosure suit3
is, that all persons materially interested should be made parties. in order that
complete 'ustice may be done and multiplicity of suits avoided. Montgomery vTutt, 11 al. 307.

14. It is not absolutely essential in all cases to make subsequent encumbrancers, prior to suit of foreclosure, parties to the suit. If not so made, they
are not bound by the decree ; but they are not necessary parties to a decree as
between the mortgagor and mortgagee; and in many cases, where the value of
the property is less than the mortgage. it may be unimportant to the mortgagee
to make them parties, and it would be a great hardship to compel him to make
them so. Id.

15. A mortgagor, when he has not disposed of his interest. is a necessary party
to a suit for a foreclosure and sale. under the law, even though no. personal
claim he asserted against him. If he has parted with the estate, his grantee
stands in his shoes, and possesses the same right to contest the lien, and to object to the sale. And if the grantee be not made a party, the purchaser under
the decree acquires no title. Goodenow v. Ewer, 16 Cal. 461; Boggs v. Hargrave, Id. 559 ; Horn v. Jones, 28 Cal. 194.

16. A foreclosure suit. under our system, is only a proceeding for the legal
determination of the existence of the lien. the ascertainment of its extent, and
the subjection to sale of the estate pledged for its satisfaction. Upon the validity
and extent of that lien, the owner of the estate, whether mortgagor or his
grantee, has a right to be heard, and no valid decree for the sale of the estate
ca: pass until this right has been afforded to him. Boggs v. Hargrave, 16 Cal.
55 .

17. A subsequent purchaser of land mortgaged is a proper, if not a necessa ,
party to a foreclosure suit; and if the complaint be faulty, in praying to he (1

im as trustee of the mortgagor. on account of fraud in the purchase, such defect cannot be reached by demurrer. De Leon v. Higuera, 15 Cal. 483.

18. A person claiming an interest in mortgaged premises, subsequent to the
mortgage, is a proper party to the foreclosure suit; but cannot be subjected to
the costs of the foreclosure beyond those occasioned by his own separate defense.
Liming v. Brady. 10 Cal. 265.

17. Where, in suit against husband and wife to foreclose a mortgage given by
the husband. and also to set aside a conveyance of the property from him to
her, for fraud, the inference from the language of the complaint is that the conveyance was made in the ordinary form of conveyance on purchase, and during
marriage ; and the wife demurs, on the ground that facts sufficient to constitute
a cause of action against her are not set out, in this, to wit : that the facts and
circumstances constituting the fraud are averred in general terms only; and
that there is a misjoinder ofparties, in making her a defendant: Held, first, that
if she claimed the premises as her separate property by virtue of the conveyance from her husband. that circumstance was sutllcient to justify plaintill‘ in
making her defendant ; second. that it was immaterial whether the conveyance
to the wife was made with or without a fraudulent intent; that, in either case,
it is unavailiug against the mortgage, because the inference from the language
of the complaint, that the conveyance was upon purchase and during marriage.
and, consequently, that the property was common property, is not negatived
by any avermeut that the property was transferred to her before marriage. or
was a gift to her. or in exchange for her separate property. Kolmer v. Ashcnauer, 17 Cal. 578.

20. Where the homestead was claimed by the husband, on an action in which
he was alone defendant, to foreclose a mortga e made by him alone. since marriage. neither the rights of the husband or w fe could be affected by the proceedings in that case. the wife not being a arty. Legal proceedings. to be
conclusive against either, must embrace both. Revallc v. Kraemer, 8 Cal. 66;
Karla v. Marsh. 9 Id. 96.

21. A defendant in a foreclosure suit cannot object that his wife, who joined
in (gilt: execution of the mortgage, is not made a co-defendant. Po-well v. Ross,
4 . 197.

22. The vendor or his assignee is not bound to know every assignee of the
vendee. however many. Zruebody v. Jacobson, 2 Cal. 269.

23. A tenant has no such absolute right, from the mere fact of his tenancy,
as to uire him to be a party to the foreclosure, in order to vest the legal
title in e purchaser under the decree. .HcDe1-mott v. Burke, 16 Cal. 580.
24. Onl those who are beneficially interested in the claim on the estate
mo cg are necessary parties to the foreclosure of a mortgage. Id. 580.

25. e interest of the lessee depends for its duration——except as limited
by the terms of the lease-—upon the enforcement of the mortgage. So long
as the mortgage remains unenforced, the lease is valid against the mortgagor,
and. in this State, against the mortgagee; but with its enforcement the leasehold interest is determined, even though the lessee be not made a party to the
foreclosure suit. Id. 580.

26. All persons interested in the premises prior to a suit brought to foreclose a mortgage, or to enforce a mechanic's lien, whether purchasers, lienholders, devrsees, remainder-men, rever.-‘ioners, or encumbrancers, must be
made  otherwise their rights will not be adected. Persons who soquire mterests by conveyance or encumbrance after suit brought need not be

made ggities. WW3 v. Higgins, 10 Cal. 552.
97. ere a plain ' in an action to foreclose a mortgage against a party

who has died since the service of the summons, and before judgment, asks
for a decree of sale of the mortgaged premises, and if the same is not suiticient to discharge the debt, then for a judgment over against the estate, the
administrator is a necessary party to the suit. Belloc v. Rogers, 9 Cal. 123.
29. Where (property is mortgaged to secure two notes, falling due at did‘erent times, an the mortgage is foreclosed on suit upon the first on its maturity, and then, after the period for redemption has sed, but before the
sherid’ has executed his deed to the purchaser, the ju gment on the first note
is paid : Held, that the lien of the mortgage for the second note could not be
displaced by a sale under prior encumbrances-—mechanic’s liens—in proceedilrégggx v&l31(i)ch the holder 0 the second note was not a party. Hocher v. Bars,
30. The mortgagee takes no estate in the land mortgaged. He simply has
a lien upon it for the security of his demand, which can only be enforced by
a judgment for a sale of the roperty mortgaged, and a sale in pursuance of
the judgment. The title of e grantee of mortgaged remises is not affected
by a foreclosure and sale in a smt commenced after e conveyance by the
mo or, unless the grantee is made a party of the suit. Bludworth v.

Lobe, ct. T., 1867.
31. If the owner of land execute a mortgage on the same. which is duly recorded. and afterwards makes a conveyance of the mortgaged premises to a
third party. and the mortgagee after the conveyance, without actual notice of
the deed. and before it is recorded, forecloses his mortgage and obtains a decree for a sale without making the grantee in the deed a party defendant, and
be fore the sale the deed is recorded, the purchaser of the mortgaged remises
at the sheriffs sale under the decree acquires no title. Oarpentier v. tlliamson
d al., 25 Cal. 159.

32. In an action to foreclose a mortgage, all persons beneficially interested in
the mortgaged property at the time of the commencement of the action, must
he made parties. Burton v. Lies, 21 Cal. 87.

33. An action may be maintained in the District Court against an executor or
administrator. to foreclose a mortgage upon real estate executed by his testator
or intestate. although the debt secured by the mortgage has been presented as
a claim to the executor or administrator, and allowed by him, and also by the

Probate Judge of the county, where the only object of the action is to reach

the property mortgaged and subject it to sale, and have the proceeds applied to

the payment of the debt secured. and a judgment is not asked against the genErall estate of the deceased for the debt of any part of it. Fallon v. Butler, 21
a . 24.

34. Where a promissory note and a mortgage to secure the same are executed and delivered to the same person, and the payee of the note and mortgagee indorses the note and assigns the mortgage to a third person, who brings
an action on the note and to foreclose the mortgage, it is not a misjoinder of

'es defendant to join as defendants the indorser and maker of the note.
man v. Turman el al., 29 Cal. 382.

35. If the owner mortgaged his property, and afterward sold the same to a
person other than the mortgagee, and the mortgage was foreclosed and property sold prior to 1851, the purchaser acquired no title if the mortgagor was
the only party defendant. The grantee of the mortgagor was a necessary
party defendant. Skinner v. Buck, 29 Cal. 253.

36. The three hundred and ninth section of the Practice Act of 1850, allowing a creditor to maintain his action to enforce a mortg e against the mortgagor alone, is to be construed as requiring the owner of e mortgaged property, at the time of foreclosure, to be made a defendant. Id.

7. When the mortgagor sells the mortgaged property, after the execution
of the mortgage, and before the commencement of a suit to foreclose, his
gralntleéaés are necessary parties to the foreclosure suit. Heyman v. Lowell, 23

a . .

38. The owner of the legal title is a necessary party to the foreclosure of a
mortga e. Brooks v. Tichnor, Oct. T. 1864.

39. ere the mortgagor of real property sells and conve s his estate to a
married man, and after the death of the grantee (his ' e surviving) the

mortgagee seeks to foreclose, the widow is a necessary party to the action.
Burton v. Lies, 21 Cal. 87.

40. A defendant in a foreclosure suit cannot object that his wife, who joined
iinésrle exgacution of the mortgage, is not made a co-defendant. Powell v. Ross,
. 19 .

41. Injunctlon.—In a bill to enjoin the issuance of bonds of the cit and
county of San Francisco b the Fund Commissioners, created by the ct of
April 20th, 1858, for the ciyaims approved by the Board of Examiners, it is
necessary that some of the rsons to whom the bonds are to be issued should
be parties to the action. utchinson v. Burr, 12 Cal. 103.

42. In an action to restrain the issuance of bonds by an incorporated company, the persons to whom the bonds are to be issued are necessary parties to
such action. Patterson v. Y uba County, 12 Cal. 105.

43. It would also be a fatal objection to a bill in equity by defendant, to set
aside the patent in this case for fraud in its procurement, that Fremont, that
the patentee, is not a party. He would be a necessary party to any proceedin
to avoid or set aside his atent, on the ground that it was issued throu h fra
or misrepresentation. 's rights cannot be determined or impaire in any
scigle 287111.113 between third parties. Biddle Boggs v. Merced Mining 00., 14

. 9.

44. Pa.rtnem.—May be sued in their firm name. See § 656, post.

45. Where two or three partners in a mine make a contract with a
person not interested in the same, b which he becomes entitled to a share of
their interests, and a like share of t e profits of their interests, the two are
the only necessary parties defendant in an action brought by the person the
contract with, to determine his right to a share in the mine and a corres n ing share of the profits on their interest. Settembre v. Putnam, 30 Cal. 90.

47. In an action to take an account of a mining partnership and dissolve
the same, and sever the interests of the several partners, all those owning interests in the partnership are necessary parties. Id.

48. Trust. enforcement of.—Where the complaint cha ed thatA. was indebted to plaintifff, and had conveyed his property to B. to disposed of for
his benefit, and had drawn an order in favor of plaintifff on B., who had acceptsd it, and further charged that B. had subsequently conveyed a rtion of
the property to A., without consideration, praying that B. be comps ed to execute the trust in favor of plaintiff. Held, that A. was a igpermd necessary
psrtytothe action. Lucas, Tu:-nerd: Co. v. Payne, 7 Ca . .

49. In an action by one of several cesluis qua trust, to declare and enforce
an implied trust in relation to land, all the persons who are entitled to, or
claim to be entitled to, a portion of the trust estate, are proper parties defendant. Jenkins v. F2-ink, 30 Cal. 586.

50. If a debtor assi his property to trustees, to be by them sold, and the

to be divid pro rata among the creditors, one creditor cannot, after
property has been converted into money, maintain an action against the
trustees for an acco ting and for judgment for his pro rata share, without
’ the other crttlisitors parties, an the assignor a defendant. .1l{cPherson

7. Per , 30 Cal. 455.

51. If a Mexican grant of land is confirmed to a wrong rson, and a patent
of the United States for the same issued to a person who ‘d not own or claim
to own the grant, and had no right to the patent, the patentee will be deemed
to hold the 1 title in trust for the real parties in interest. Salmon v.

8ya\cnds,30C .301.
52.1'rusteeofanexpresst:rust.-—Vde§6.

AC'1'ION8 AT COMMON LAW.

53. General rules and miscellaneous decisions.—It seems that the joinder
of two persons as co-defendants who have no joint interest in the subject matter
cf the suit, and are under no joint liability, will, unless the mistake be corrected
in the Court below, be error. Starling v. Hanson, 1 Cal. 478.

54. Although some of the parties may be mere accommodation grantees and
Ectitions depositaries of title, still they have a right to be heard at law in their
own defense, before Courts of Chancery can pronounce definitely on their
claims. Knowles v. Inches, 12 Cal. 212.

56. Where property was seized under two attachments, and it was claimed by
8 third party, whereupon both attaching creditors indemnfiled the sheriff, who
went on and sold it, and paid the proceeds to the first attaching creditor, the
amount not equaling his judgment, and afterwards the party claiming the property obtained judgment against the sheriil’ for the value of the property: Held,
that the recourse must be had against the nrst attaching creditor, for whose benetit the roperty was sold. Davidson v. Dallas, 8 Cal. 227. As in that case
the attac ing creditors do not stand in the position of joint trespassers, the
seizure of the second being subject to the (list. Id.

57. Where parties em loyed architects, reputed to be skilled in their profes|i°lla to construct at a esignated oint on a creek, a dam, or embankment, of
certain specilic dimensions, capab e of resisting all floods and freshets of the
stream for the period of two years, and to deliver it completed by a given time,
and before the embankment was completed it was broken by a sudden freshet,
and a large body of water, confined by it, rushed down the channel of the
Stream, carrying away and destroying in its course the store of plaintifffs, with
their stock of merchandise; the emplo ers exercised no supervision, ve no
directions, furnished no materials, nor ad they accepted the work. laintifs
brought suit to recover the damage sustained by them against the em loyers
Iclrll ggitractorsz Held, that the latter alone were liable. Boswell v. ird, 8

_ 58. The relation of the parties is that of independent contractors. The relation of master and servant, or superior and subordinate, did not exist between
llhdem, and thereforee the doctrine respondeat superior does not apply to the case.

59. In an action for damages for a breach of contract, where no other person
his acquired an interest in the matter in dispute, on] the arties to the conhct sued on should be made parties to the action. Ba v. gazalis, 30 Cal. 92.

60. Administrator, executor, etc.—-See ante§ 6.
51. Agent, when he shall notbe sued.-A public officer who stands in

the relation of agent of the government, or of the public. is not personally liable upon contracts made by him as such officer, and within the scope of his
legitimate duties; but this reason does not appl when neither the government
nor the public in any way can be considered or eld responsible for a contract
made by a person, although a public otllcer. Dwtnclle v. Hem-iquez. 1 Cal. 392.

62. Where a party makes a purchase from an innocent agent, who afterwards
parts with the money of his principal, and it afterwardsturns out that such
purchase avails the purchaser nothing : Held, that no legal right of complaint
will lie against the agent. Engels v. Heatly, 5 Cal. 136.

63. If on the face of an instrument not under seal, executed by an agent,
with competent authority, by signing his own name sinipl , it appears that the
agent executed it in behalf of t e principal, the princip and not the agent is
bound. Haslcill v. Cornish, 13 Cal. 45; Id. 221; see also, 21 Cal. 45; Love 17.

S. N. L. W. (2 11!. 00., 32 Cal. 654.

64. Agent, when he may be sued.—If an agent, in executing a contract»
use terms which charge himself, he may be sued upon the instrument itself as
the contracting party; but it is otherwise if the contract contains terms which

bind the principal only. Hall v. Crandall, 29 Cal. 568.

65. Count1es.—-Counties are quasi co rations, and can sue and be sued.
Sec. 134. Price v. Sacramento County, 6 C 254.

66. The right to sue a county is not limited to cases of tort, malfeasance, etc. ,
but is given in every case of account, after presentation to, and rejection by
the Board of Supervisors. Id. See People v. Supervisors, 28 Cal. 431.

67. The statute provi ' that no person shall sue a count for any demand,
unless the claim has first en presented to the Board 0 Su rvisors, and
been by them rejected, applies as well to actions arising out o tort as upon
contract. McCann v. Sierra County, 7 Cal 121.

68. Suits brou ht for or against a county shall be by or in the name of such
county. Stat. 1 54, 194; Wood's Dig. 249, art. 1377. So where the grounds
of relief are based upon the abuse of power by the city corporation, its agents
or servants, the parties whose action is impeached, are necessary parties. Id.

69. At common law an action did not lie against a county, and this was the
law of this State until the eighteenth of May, 1854. The law passed May 1st,
1854, exempting the property of counties from a forced sale under execution,
did not meet the obh tion of plaintifff's contract with the county, for it was
but an amrmance of tgtd common law. Gilman v. Contra Costa County, 8 Cal. 52.

70. The people of a county are not a corporation, nor can they sue or be
sued. Smith v. Myers, 15 Cal. 33. 3

71. Boards of Supervisors cannot be sued in their ofiicial character, in ordinary common law actions, for claims against the public, county or village they
represent, without e ress statutory provision. Hastings v. City and County
of San Francisco, 18 al. 49.
g 72. Where a Board of Supervisors consists of three members, at least two
of them should be made defendants in an action b1'O1;§.i11t to enjoin the Board
from urchasing roperty for the use of the county. 'm'1y County v. McCainmen ei)als., 25 C . 119. See further § 12, No. 38.

73. Counties.—Actions by and ‘net. Seestatute 1854, 194; 1863-4, 152;
same, Hittell’s Dig., paragraphs 12 -12.

74. nuening.—sm-vivor liable. Vide, Hittell's Dig., par. 1551, et seq.

75. I.ijeotinent.—The plaintifff in ejectment may sue one or more defendants, and they may answer se arately or demand separate verdicts; unless
Zhgyldg so, they will be conclu ed by a general verdict. lVmans v. Cliristy,

. O.

76. The plaintiff may join any number of parties defendant, without regard
to the extent or character of their possession, subject only to their right to
answer separately and have separate verdicts. Ritchie v. Dorland, 6 Cal. 33.

77. When the premises are unoccupied, parties out of possession claiming
title, which claim is accompanied with the exercise of acts of ownership, as
enclosure, cultivation and the like, may be made defendants. Garner v.

Marshall, 9 Cal. 268.

78. Ejectment is a possessory action, and must be brou t against the
occupant; it determines no rights but those of ssession at s time, and it
matters not who has, or claims to have, the ti e of the premises. Garner v.
Mu-shall, 9 Cal. 268; Burke v. Thblc Mountain Water 00., 12 Cal. 403; Dutton
v. Warsckauer, 21 Cal. 609; F v. Sparks, 22 Cal. 148; Owen v. Fowler,
use 192; Lyle v. Rollins, 25 C . 440; Hawkins v. Reichert, 28 Cal, 534;
Clinic v. Cohen, 13 Cal. 623.

79. In an action of ejectment to recover an undivided interest in a mining
claim, it is not necessary to make parties defendants in such action who are
in possession of such claim, hol ' other undivided interests, and who claim
no right to the interest sued for. aring v. Crow, 11 Cal. 366.

80. Where several persons conspire to obtain the land of plaintifff, and in
suit against them to recover the props , two of the defendants disclaim all
interest therein: Held, to be no ground or diam’ ' the suit as to them, as
Ctliy ggre proper parties, and are liable for costs. puy v. Leavenworth, 17

81. C% where the Court below set aside a judgment by default in ejectmeat, and allowed the landlords of the defendants to come in and defend.

Barrett v. Graham, 19 Cal. 632; Roland v. Kreyenhagen, 18 Id. 455.
82. Where the occupant is the mere servant or employee, his occupation
may be the occupation of his employer, and if so, the employer should be

made the defendant in ejectment. Hawkins v. Reichert, 28 Cal. 534.

83. The action to recover the possession of real estate must be brought
against the person who, at the commencement of the action, is the occupant,
and withholds possession. Id.

84. If the tenant in possession is sued in ejectment, the landlord may, in
cases in which his title is drawn in issue, be permitted to defend the action in
gel nape of the tenant, but not in his own name. Demiclc v. Deringer, 32

85. When the demanded premises are in ossession of a tenant, the tenant is

theproper pa defendant in ejectment. he landlord is not a proper party

tlgfendant, and made so the Court will, on motion, order a nonsuit as to him.

ts. Executor. etc.— Vide ante, § 6.
87. Infant.-—See ante, § 9.

88. Malicious prosecution.—An action for malicious prosecution lies
against several defendants, and the gist of the action is the malicious prosecution,
gxsidcptiobably the cause of action is complete before acquittal. Dreuzv. Dornec,

s 83.

89. Married women.—~See § 7.
90. Misjoindors of defendants.-—See post, § 40, note sub. 4.

pa:1§P1a4r1:ieo.-’-All persons who are united in interest should be joined. See

92. One who should be joined as plaintifff may be made defendant, when.
See post, § 14.

93. One may defend for the benefit of all. when.—See post, § 14.
94. Diiierent parties to same obligation See § 15.

95. Personal representative, or successor in interest. may be brought in
incsseof deathof aparty; seepost§16.

96. Court to order parties to bejbrought in.—When. See post, § 17.
Fictitious name, see § 69 post.

97. ‘I110 State.—In the absence of any statute to that effect, the State canaligogued, ands judgment against her is erroneous. People v. Talmagc, 6

98. Tenant in oommon.—0ne or more may defend. Laws of 1857, p. 62;
see i 12 ante note, “ Tenant in Common,” No. 90.

§14. Parties in interest, when to be joined. When one or

I more may sue or defend for the whole.

Of the parties to the action, those who are united in interest shall be joined as plaintifffs or defendants ; but if the consent of any one who should have been joined as plaintifff cannot be obtained, he may be made a defendant, the reason
thereof being stated in the complaint; and when the question
is one of a common or general interest, of many persons. or
when the parties are numerous, and it is impracticable to

bring them all before the Court, one or more may sue or defend for the benefit of all.
Applicable to Justices’ Courts; N. Y. Code, § 119.

1. Construction of this sectlon.—'1‘he fourteenth section of the Practice
Act was intended to a ly to suits in equity, and not to actions at law.
Andrews v. Molcelumnc ill 00., 7 Cal. 330.

2. Generally.—The rule requiring all ersons materially interested to be
made parties to a suit is dispensed with, w en it is impracticable or very inconvenient, as in cases of joint associations, com osed of numerous individuals. Gorman v. Russell, 14 Cal. 531; Van Salim‘ tv. Huntington, 1 Cal. 55.

3. When one partner sues for an injury to the partnership property, and
makes his copartner a defendant for want of his consent to join as plainti.&',
the recovery must be entire for the whole injury. Query: Whether such non'oinder of Harties laintif! is permissible. N igfilingale v. Scannell, 6 Cal. 506.

he lawIydvi not to erate a division of a joint right of action into several actions. .

4. In an action upon a bond or written undertaking, there can be no conatlrlucgisve parties jointly liable with the proper obligors. Lindsay v. Flint, 4

5. All the parties having a part interest in the subject matter should be
joined as plaintids, but the defect must be taken advantage of by answer or
a portionment of damages, where it does not appear on the face of the comp °nt. Whitmy v. Stark, 8 Cal. 514.

6. When four of the trustees of a private corporation, owni sudlcient
stock to control its business, conduct the business in a grossly neg igent manner, systematically disregarding the by-laws, keeping no account of receipts
and ex enditures, failing to pay their own assessments, without an excuse:
Held, at a stockholder may sue in equity for an account, making t e corporation and said trustees alone parties-—no objection being taken that all the
stockholders were not parties-—and the trustees will be compelled to make
gpod any loss occasioned by their gross negligence or willful misconduct.

eall v. Hill, 16 Cal. 145.

§ 15. One action may include dizfercnt parties on obligations, etc.

Persons severally liable upon the same obligation or instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange and promissory notes, and sureties on the same or separate instruments,
may all or any of them be included in the same action, at the

option of the plaintifff.
, iiégplicable to Justices’ Courts. N. Y. Code. § 120. See post, 632; also,

L This section is in derogation of the old rule of common law, ‘that one or
all, and not any intermediate number, may be sued. Stearns v. Aguirre, 6 Cal.
183; 25 Cal. 526. [In certain particulars this case is overruled by Lewis v.
C.’¢rk2'a et al., 18 Cal. 399.]

2. In all cases of joint and several contracts. the plaintifff may elect whether
he will sue the defendants severally or jointly. Stearns v. Agmrre, 6 Cal. 176.

3. To create a several liability, express words are necessary. Brady v.

olds, 13 Cal. 31.

Where a promissory note was made payable to S., and, previously to its
delivery to the payee, was indorsed for the accommodation of the maker
H. and brother and defendant, upon an a eement of the indorsers with eac
other that each would become surety i the other would: Held, that the
indorsers were guarantors, and were jointly and not severally liable in a suit
by the yee, or a third person taking the note after maturity. Id.

5. ‘V ere a sheriff seizes goods on two attachments in behalf of diiferent
plaintiffs, and the property bei claimed by a third rson, the plaintifffs in
the attachment suits execute to e sheriff separate in emnif ’ bonds. there
is no joint liability between the plaintifffs to the sheriff. Each nd must be
med on as an inde ndent obligation. White v. Fratt, 13 Cal. 52L

6. The common w rule, that where defendants are sued on a joint contract,
recovery must be had against all or none, is modified by our Practice Act.
People v. Fnlsbie, 18 Cal. 402.

7. In a suit against two on a joint assessment for taxes, judgment may be
rendered against one only of the defendants, if the other be not liable. Id.

8. It is no misjoinder of parties defendant for the laintid to sue one, or
an number more than one, of all the persons sever y liable upon the same
obhgation or instrument. People v. Love at 1115., 25 Cal. 526.

9. Under this section a plaintifff may, at his election, sue one or more, oral]
the persons severally liable upon the same obligation or instrument. Id.

10. A bond in the following form: Know all men that we, A. as principle,
and B., C. and D., as sureties, are bound unto the people in the several sums
affixed to our names, viz: B., in the sum of ten thousand dollars; C., in the
sum of hve thousand dollars; D., in the sum of three thousand dollars, etc.,
ctc.—" for the which payment, well and truly to be made, we severally bind
ourselves, our heirs,” etc.——and si ed and sealed by the obligors, is held to
be an instrument embracing severa distinct obligations, each of which is a

I

joint obligation of the princignle and one surety, and not joint and several.
People v. Harden, 21 Cal. 58 .

11. Where a promissory note, and a mortg e to secure the same, are
executed and delivered to the same _person, an the payee of the note and

mortgagee indorses the note, and assigns the mortgage to a third person, who
bri an action on the note, and to foreclose the mortgage, it is not a misjoin er of parties defendantto join as defendants the indorser and makers of
the note. Eastman v. Turman, 24 Cal. 380.

12. In cases of joint and several contracts, an administrator cannot be
joined with the survivor. Humphreys v. Crane, 5 Cal. 17 3.‘

§ 16. Action, when not toabate by death, marriage or other
disability.

An action shall not abate by the death, or other disability
of a party ; or by the transfer of any interest therein, if the
cause of action survive or continue. In case of the death, or
other disability of a party, the Court on motion, may allow
the action to be continued by or against his representative or
successor in interest. In case of any other transfer of interest, the action may be continued in the name of the original

party ; or the Court ma.y allow the person to whom the transfer is made, to be substituted in the action.

I Applicable to Justices’ Courts, N. Y. Code; § 121, Abb. Forms, Nos. 116719

1. This section construed.—The sixteenth and seventeenth sections of
the Practice Act, and the seventy-second, seventy-third and seventy-fourth
sections of the amendments of 1854 to the Practice Act, give a party the
right to intervene in an action in case of the transfer of any interest during
the pendency thereof, or where he is directly interested in the subject matter
in liti ation, and this can be done either before or after issue has been
joins in the case. Broolcs v. Huger, 5 Cal., 281.

2. G-eneral1y.—The death of the wife, after suit brought by herself and
husband for the homestead, defeats a recovery by the husband, though the
right tp2recover existed at the commencement of the suit. Gee v. Moore, 14
Cal. 4 .

3. If, after a decree of divorce which directs a division of the common
property, the husband dies, a supplemental decree after his death, without a
revivor as to his heirs, directing asale of the property and a division of the
proceeds, is void asto his heirs. It is not enough that his executors are
made arties in his stead. Ewald v. Corbett, 32 Cal. 493.

4. ere the plaintifff in an action died before trial and a subsequent ‘order
for judgement contained a recital as follows: “ This action having been continued in consequence of the death of the plaintifff by his executor, Samuel
Webb, and the yry having found a verdict for plaintifff, and then awarded
judgment in favor of the plaintifff : Held, that the recital sufficiently showed
a suggestion of the death of the original plaintifff and a continuance and a
revival of the cause in the name of the executor. Gregory v. Haynes, 21 Cal.
443.

6. The continuance of the name of a deceased plaintifff instead of that of
his executor in a judgment rendered after the substitution, is an error of form
only, and does not make the judgment void. Id.

6. The death of an appellant after argument of his case upon appeal, does
not constitute any ground for delaying a decision or departing from the ordinary course of rocedure, except as to the entry of the ‘judgment which may
be rendered. T e entry should be of a day anterior to e appellant's death.
Black: v. Shaw, 20 Cal. 68.

7. The rule is diderent if the death occurs previousto the argument; in that
event further proceedings can only be had upon leave given after suggestion
of the death is made. d.

8. If the fact a pears on the record that after the institution of the suit the
plaintiff conveys a rtion of the land in controversy to other persons, it
1;:rl1'1It‘1 ble 81$? ground iii; reversing the judgment. Barstow v. Newman, Octo9. If the plaintifff conveyed his entire interest ending the suit, and the
fact was alleged in a supplemental answer, and trut of the fact were made to
appear, it would not necessarily defeat the action. Id.

10. If the plaintifff has conveyed the demanded premises pending ejectment, the Court, b the consent of both the plaintifff and vendee, may, under
the provisions of the Practice Act, make an order continuing in the name of
the o ' ' plaintifff. Moss v. Shear, 30 Cal. 468.

11. f the plaintifff in ejectment transfers the demanded premises pending
the action, and the Court orders the action continued in the name of the
original plaintiff, he may recover judgment for both the possession and the
rents an pronts. Id.

12. The sale and transfer by the plaintifff in ejectment of the demanded
premises pending the actions is a transfer of the cause of action within the
meaning of the sixteenth section of the Practice Act; and the action may be
continued in the name of the original plaintifff. Id.

13. An action brought in the joint names of husband and wife toreoover the

wife's separate estate, does not abet

subsequent e of the wife with
of the  v. Pyser, 1
14. If, pending an action brought
to rweggver the wuixfielso separate estata
Ina prosecu a judgment ii
beiayig no objection taken to 'the joi
unwer. Id.

15. Where 0 ' ladministratorc
real pro , ereby preventing th
against e claim of the deceased, and
becomes by order of Court substitute
special  r, the right conse

' administratorwill enure to th
' Oct. '1‘. 1867.

§ 17. Court, when to decide <
tiestobcbroughtin. '

The Court may determine 2
before it, when it can be done
of others, or by saving their
determination of the controv
presence of other parties, th
brought in."

A plicable to Justices’ Courts. I
11 1197.

g. Elm seoglton oonstmed.—-See 1

. Court ui will not per:
subject matteren? air the ‘es s

elsinm determined once and orever.

3. It is the duty of a Court of equi
are before it, to adjust the rights <
litigltion, if it can be helped. 0rd v
4. When a husband sues to reco
appear in the action, the Court sho
llnaldeeree maybebindingupon the
5. The ri ht to demur was given a
visions of e foregoing section. Wt
6. If 3 determination of the contro*
ofotherpax-ties.theCourt mayon i
of the Practice Act, order them to be
the case. Sdtembre v. Putnam, 30 Ca
.7. Theplaintiffnledherbill tore:
ated by her husband’s deed to one c
Ell three other defendants, one of 1
from the plaintid and her husband, I
the property executedby them. He
ties, asthegranteeinthedeed, and 1

‘es necessary to the .com lete adji
to». 313.1 P

TITLE II.

01-‘ THE PLACE OF TRIAL OF CIVIL ACTION.

Storm: 18. Actions to be tried where subject matter situated.
19. Actions to be tried where cause of action arose.
20. Actions to be tried where parties reside.
21. Change of place of trial.

§ 18. ‘ ‘Actions to be tried where subject matter situated.

Actions for the following causes shall be tried in the county
in which the subject of the action, or some part thereof, is
situated, subject to the power of the Court to change the
place of trial, as provided in this act:

1st. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate, or interest, therein, or for the determination, in any form, of such
right, or interest, and for injuries to real property.

2d. For the partition of real property.

3d. For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property.

Provided, that where such real property is situate partly in
one county and partly in another, the plaintifff may select
either of said counties, and the county so selected shall be the
proper county for the trial of any, or all, of such actions as
are mentioned in the first, second, and third subdivisions of this

section.

Amended, Stat. 1861, 494. See Q 919, 20, 21; Bancroft‘s Forms, Nos. 694,
695; Abb. Forms, Nos. 1205, 1212.

 

(1) Bu:-urn or 1850., 183; En-rauls Dro., Paaaeauu 500-6: Woon's Drc., An. 1870.

A|4:a;el.¢‘z‘ue:8tg:aufrrhvadieuadprmdbyfrmmu0evtumuka0ms1. Plleed
1.Hsnabuonorproaedingucommencedorpendingina0ourLuuhemindternenti andtheludgeorlusticethereofis law ualmedtroin assuch.oa-itbr
anyot rcausetheoourtorderstheplaceo trialto change-d,itshall transterredmr

trialto a Oourt the parties may upon, by stipulation in writing. ormadeinopen Court
andenteredinthezninutes; or. theydonotsoagr-ee.thentothenearestOourtwherethe

like olueetion or cause for making the order does not exist. as follows:

in

in a County Oourt, to a District Oourr. or some other County Court.

n the in-ohate court, to a District court, or some other Pi-oh.te Oourt.
4th. It in aJustice's Court. toenother Justice's Oourt in the same county.

2. When an order is made transtsrring an action or proceeding {or taial, the Clerk of the
Court. or Justice of the Peace. shall transmit the pleadings and papers there 11 to the clerk
or Justice of the Oourt to which it has been transferred. 1! the transfer is made on the
groundthataludgeorlustice isdiaqualined from acting. the cost and tees thereof. and at
re-entering and tiling the pleadings and papers anew, are to abide the event o: the action or

8. Theoourttewhichenactionorproceedingish-ensteu-edshan haveendexsrcieeover

1.—Probate proceedings’ anenot civil actions within the meaning of this
title. Estate 0 0. G. Scott, 15 Cal. 220.

2.—Hining ' arerealestate within the meaning of, and are verned
by the revisions of this section. Watts v. White, 13 Cal.331; 23 . 506.

3. Who:-easuitforreaiestateisbroughtinthewrong coun , a motionto
change the venue, and not demurrer, is the pro r remedy; an in such case
there is no discretion in the Court, the change ing matter of right. Id.

4. C., being one of four defendants in ejectment, moved to transfer the
action to a United States Court on the ground of his alienage, and an order
wasmadeata ' allproceedinge until the motion could be heard. Before
thehearing of e motion plaintiff dismissed the action as to C., and one
other defendant, and took judgment against the other two, who had made
default. 0. afterwards insisted upon his motion, and filed amdsvits tending
to show that the defaulting defendants were occupying the premises as his
tenants, and were collu ' with the plaintiff. The motion was denied, and
C., having appealed from t order and from the judgment: Held, that the
denial of the motion was re r, as after C.’s dismissal it could not properly
beentertained. Reedv. ,22Cal.463.

 

tiannethenhjurudicuonuuithsdheeuoriginnywmmenadthudmmd msyhy
wdcorexecutionenforeethejudgrnent.
4. InmacdonqrpmceedmgtransterndnomaPmhate0mut.orhronghttorecoverthe
olhndsortenements (e tingitheinaJustice's Oourt). after iinaljudgment
thscierkottheoourtiuw itiaheardahallcertityunderhissealo! olice,and
tzansrnitto the Court from whence it is transferred. a full transcript of the proceedings
andjndgrnent. 'l'heGerkr~eeeivingsuchtranscri shaildocketandreoordthejudslnent

rccordaofhuoourgbrieuydedgnaung asajndgrnentu-uisferredtrom-—

5. causes thefollowingand no other-fees and costs shall be allowedto
theau-ho! theoourt: Fort:-anamittingthepleadingsandpapersofa cause. the sum of
two ; tor re-entering and tiling the same pleadings and papers anew. three dollars;

lo: nrnitwatranscrfpt andjndgxnentwhenmqulredtobedoneunder this
aestva ;fordoc ug and recordings transcript andjudament, when rrquiredto
hedouennduthissct. fivedoilara. Thelasttwoiterns may be ianedin fsvarolthesuco

an made a part of thejutlgm-rut against the other pal-ty,or otherwise

oedaedpM.utheOouthanntheaaionmproeeedmgmay.hyiu under oriudanent.

O. Itanactionorproceedingistranshrredtoa Justice's Oom-t. the Justice receivingit
danthreedaysbebreheproceedstothetrialthereof, unlessthe parties stipulate.inwriteausetherein a notice in writing to he served onthepar-ties.
noti inlormthernofthetirneandplace o!triai:iaothercasea.theactionar
neceedingahallproceedinthesalnemannerprovtdedior by law in such actions or proE

E
5
E

man:-u-rssos1868.w: E1-rrn.t.'sDre.,PAuon.un 5008-9; Woco's Dre.,iI5o,Asr. 1110.
Amldtopreeide er-earn’ yiaaaad resaoviovg errtaia easesfresntlw Oosrts Uatlslaletetlaa

vuaaaaa cuil one-taaadloreuaove byurito er-rorearcaiuessag-esuthesnpraua

Ceca-tef&u's&at¢teG¢Su9ren¢0our¢ofthcU State. P¢ued4pri!9¢h.1855.

1. Ifasuitbeconnnencedinauycourtot this Stateagainst an aiismorhyaeitiseaot
Qisstateagainstacitiaen of another Btatoandthematterindispute exceeds thesnmos
vnmotnvshmdreddoiluaeutuunotmuatohemsdetoappectothesuishctionct

.0ourt.andthedetendantahall,atthetimeo!enteringhis pearaneeinsuchaoonl-to!’

the

thisstamnieapetitionfartheremovalof thecausefortrial tothe next Oircniteourt
or Distrlctoourtot the United States. havingthepowers andjurisOourt,toheheldintheDistrictwheretheauitismdin¢.andoOer

survetytorhis enteringin suchCourt.on thefirst or its

, ofsaidprocessagainsth1m.andalso!orhisthere appearing and entering

inthecauae.ifbai1wasoriginallyrequisitetherein,itahailIhenhethed such

Om-torthisststetoacceptthe andproceednofurtherinthecausezan silent)sequentproceedingswhichrnayhe enorhadinsuchoourtinoontr-aventionotths

proviaionaofthissaction,ehallhevoid, and of no force or eitect for anypurpoeewhstsoever
zannaljudgrnentordecreeinanysuit the estoourtoflaworequityotthis

in

Iateinwhichadeciaiono!thesuitcouldbehad.w ereisdrawninquestionthevaiidity

or an authority exercised under the United 8tates.andtha
dedsicn aginsttbeirvaiidity; orwhcreisdrawninqueetionthevalidityol astatuteot.
uanaudaority exercisedunderthisstatemnthegroundof their being repugnant tothe
0unstitution.tr-eatieeoriawsolthevnitedstates. andthedeciaionisini'avorofsuch.their
villa. ; orwhereisdrawniuqueation theconstruction ctany clause of theoonstitution

etthe .nd‘h.8hush.iorc'if.atruty.u¢:r<t>1fu:.auta‘tlt‘1'tepc;lL orcomrninionheld.underthe‘United
hates. use on e viiegaoreaeni specialiyse
eHnedhyeitherparty, suchclauseottJ:esaidOonstitution.‘:e°a‘iy, statute «$3

§ 19. Actions to be tried where causes of action arose.

Actions for the following causes shall be tried in the county

where the cause, or some part thereof, arose, subject to the
like power of the Court to change the place of trial:
’ 1st. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by
statute; except, that when it is imposed for an offense committed on alake, river, or other stream of water, situated in
two or more counties, the action may be brought in any
county bordering on such lake, river, or stream, and opposite
to the place where the oifense was committed:

2d. Against a public ohicer or person especially appointed
to execute his duties, for an act done by him in virtue of his
oilice, or against aperson who, by his command, or in his aid,
does anything touching the duties of such oiiicer.

N. Y. Code, § 124. See post, M 20, 21.

1. Proceedings foramandamusto com the execution of a sheriR's deed

a redemptioner, after six do from o redemption, under section two
undred and thirty-two of e e, can be commenced in the county where
therelator resides. The provision of the statute that w&o t a public
officerfor actsdone b him invirtue of his oiiice, etc., set f in this section, applies on.l ‘ to a ative acts of the oihcer, by which in the execution

of process, or o erwise, he interferes with the property or right of third,

and not to more omissions or neglect of omcial duty. McMillan v.
gichards, 9 Cal. 420.
‘_ § 20. ‘Actions to be tried where parties reside.

A In all other cases, the action shall be tried in the county 

which ‘the defendants, or any of them, may reside at the com 
intheBnpreme0onrtoftheUnitedBtotea,inthemsnner bed the lnwsofthe
liniledstatee; and upon the ieeuanceend service or such to! error, echiet Justice,

eoourt men or passing the judgment or decree complained of,
tobytheplnin inerror.orhisottorney.IhellsicntherequieiteciteIgzntabailhoveheenrenderedinenysuitinthe estoourtotthil
agninatwhomthedecieion may have beengiven she! within ten

33
g?
:2

is
2??
3:53

 me notice. in writing, with the Clerk, oi his intention to remove the cause

‘Iuncienttoenablesuch
the

the meme (gotta oithe Uniéed States. and ahaiic‘og:rm:unic‘ite;1nt eecurig; '
. be proved udgeo Supreme o oranynistri o I shoe,
to ‘P 1’, errorit ahallbe edntyortheeeidoonrtinwhichsneh

mops-ooeouucno! chvritof
t wee‘:-‘elndered. orany .'lndgethereofo.tchambere.tceteya.1l roeeedingufor

nnnljndsmen
nehtimenotexeeedingfourxnonths. tobenxed bythe said Ocurt or Jorge, as will be

hytheiunotthev Btatetgandn ntheneceiptofsuchwritctei-ror,the erhofthe
recordnn he.and whichthewritmaybed.irected.ohu.ilmahereturn
noorioretraueripgwithonttheneceedtyolanyothuornuther
rec.

gnu. nun:-ity hotooe
0!. ‘('nerk.orotheroineerofanyConrto!thio8tste,shai1hnowin and

toopplytcr and servehiswritoferrorinthemode reocribed.

1.1! J
votnntnrigsct contnventionottheprovisionsofthisnchheehaiibedeemed of:

mencement of the action; or, if ‘none of the defendants reside in the State, or, if residing in this State, the county in
which they so reside be unknown to the plaintifff, the same
may be tried in any county which the plaintifff may designate in his complaint; and if any defendant or defendants
may be about to depart from the State, such action may be
tried in any county where either of the parties may reside_
or service be had; subject, however, to the power of the
Court to change the place of trial as provided in this Act.
mmended Stat. 1858, 82. N. Y. Code, $125. See post, $21. _

1. Probate proceedings notwlthin the Act.--—Proosedlnge for the settlement ofan estate, and matters connected therewith,are notcivll actions
within the meaning of this Title 2d, so as to transfer them from one county
to another. Estate of Scott, 15 Cal. 220.

2. Corporation. residence of.--The princi place of business of a corgration is its residence within the mean’ 0 that term, as used in section

ofthePracticeAct,£xing the place 0 trial. Jenlcinsv. the Oalifomia
&Ig¢ Company, 22 Cal. 637.

3. Habeas Corpus.-—'l‘he writ of habeas corpus should not issue to run out
of the county, unless for good cause shown, as the absence, inability or refusal to act, of the local Judge, or other reason showing that the ob)ect and
reason of the law requires its issuance. Ea: parts Ellis, 11 Cal. 225.

§21. Change of phzce of trial.

The Court may, on motion, change the place of trial in the
following cases : i

lst. When the county designated in the complaint is not
the proper county ;

2d. When there is reason to believe that an impartial trial
cannot be had therein ; A

3d. When the convenience of witnesses and the ends of

justice would be promoted by the change ; s
4th. When from anycause the Judge is disqualified from

acting in the action.

N. Y. Code, 5 126. See ante, 5 18, note. Abb. Forms, Nos. 1205-1212;
Bancroffs Forms, 594, 595. 4. Theplaintiffin anactlon mayhave theplace of trial changed upona
pope showing, made under the twenty-drst section of the Practice Act, and
ltisarorinthecourttorefuse. Grewell v. Walden, 23 Cal. 165.

6. First subdivision.—As a matter of practice, where defendant moves to
transfer the cause to the county of his residence, plaintid may resist, by a
counter motion to retain the cause on account of the convenience of witnesses,
notwithstanding the residence of defendant, and then defendant can re ly to
the allegations as to the convenience of witnesses; or plaintiff, ins of a
counter motion, may sim ly resist the motion of defendant, but reasonable
time should be allowed de endant, if desired, to meet the matter set up in opposition to the on'ginal motion. Loehr v. Latham, 15 Cal. 418.

6. On a lication by defendant to change the place of trial on the mid
of resideng, the laintiif may resist by showin that the conveniencegdt?witnesses and the ends of justice will be promoted y the retention of the cause,
and the Court may, on a proper sho of such facts, refuse to change the
venue. Jenkins v. The California Stage 0., 22 Cal. 537.

7. Where a change of venue is asked by defendant on the ground of his
residence, if the convenience of witnesses requires that the action should be
retained for trial in the Court where it was commenced, the plaintiff should

nt that fact in opposition to the motion, and if he neglects to do so, it is
oubtful whether he can afterwards apply to the Court to which it has thus
been removed, to have it sent back again. Pierson v. Mccahill, 22 Cal. 127.

8. Corporation. residence of—The principal place of business of a corpo;
ration is its residence within the meaning of that term as used in Sec. 20. o
theCPract;l.;e Act,  the place of trial. Jenkins V. The C'aliform'a Stage 00.’
22 al. 5 .

~ 9. Plaintiimayreatatthe mottonby counter inotion,cn the ground of
convenience to witnesses. [See Cases, under Bub. 1.]

10. Motion. how made. pract:lce.—On motion by defendant to change
the place of trial, on ground that he is sued in the county in which he does
not reside, if plaintin‘ resist the motion because of the convenience of witnesses, the evidence as to the convenience should be as full and particular as
that which is required u 11 application for this cause to transfer the trial to
another county. The am vit must state the names of the witnesses. Loehr
v. Latham, 15 Cal. 418.

11. The practice upon this subject being unsettled, the parties, on the
return of the cause, should have an opportunity of fully'presenting the merits
of the motion. Id.

12. It will 0 rate against the ap lication where the affidavit of the {arty
shows that all e witnesses of his versary reside in the place from w ence
he ap lies to move the trial. Sloan v. P. Smith, 3 Cal. -110.

13. e affidavit should state the facts in such a manner as to enable the
Court to draw its own inference whether or not an impartial trial could be had

. in the particular case. If it fail in this, itwill not warrant the Court in

changing the venue. Id.

14. The  of time to file counter-affidavits, on a motion to
the place 0 trial, is a matter of discretion in the lower Court, and will not
reviewed on appeal. Pierson v. McCahill, 22 Cal. 127.

15. Second subdivision, prejudice. eto.—The allegations in the affidavit
of the defendants, that a strong prejudice exists in San Francisco among persons likely to be called as jurors against driving cattle through the streets of
the ci , and against persons engaged in that business, is not sudicient to
show at he cannot have a fair and impartial trial in San Francisco. They
furnish no affidavits of persons acquainted with the facts. nor do they state
that they have made any inquiries of the citizens on which to base such an
opinion. Ficlcens v. Jones et al., October T. 1863.

16. The grantin or refusing of a change of venue by reason of the bias
and prejudice of e citizens of the county, is discretionary with the Court,
subject to revision only in cases of abuse. Watson v. Whitney, 23 Cal. 375.

17. Third subdivhion. convenience of witnesses.—The affidavits show
that the acts complained of were committed in the city of San Francisco,
and ' facts the convenience of witnesses would require that the action
sho d be tried in that county. The stlidavits of both parties show that a
greater number of the witnesses as to the act committed and the injury caused
thereby, reside in San Francisco; and even those who reside in Sonoma county
can travel to San Francisco nearly as conveniently as to the county seat of the
former county. Ficlcens v. Jones, Oct. T. 1863. (Not reported).

18. Fourth subdivision—'.l.'he judge. incapacity to act.’ prejudice.
bias, etc.—If a Judge is related to either of the parties to an action, by consanguinity or amnity within the third degree, he is disqualiiied from acting in

the case in anymatterexcept in the arrangement of the calendar or regulation of the order of business. Even if no objection is made, he has no
right to act, and ought of his own motion to decline to sit as Judge. In such
case, an order of the Judge dismissing the action is void, on the ground of his
inca 'tytoact. Pcoplev. JoseRamondeLaG-uerra, 24Cal.7 .

1 . Where a Judge is incapacitated to act as such, the action should be
hansfei-red——not dismissed; an order dismissin the action would be null and
void. Burton at al. v. Covarrubias, April T. 186 . Not reported.)

20. The exhibition by a Judge of  fee ' , or the unnec
expression of an opinion upon e justice or merits of a controversy, thou
exceedingly imlecorous, improper and reprehensible, as calculated to throw
suspicion upon the judgment of the Court, and bring the administration of
justice into contempt, are not, under our statute, sumcient to authorize a
cha of venue, on the ground that the Judge is disqualified from sitting.
The w establishes a diiferent rule for determining the qualification of J u es
from that applied to jurors. McCauley v. Weller (Terry, C. J .), 12 Cal. .

21. A Judge who is related to either of the parties to an action within the
third degree of consanguini , is incompetent to try an action between them.
De La Guerra v. Burton, 23 al. 592.

22. Bias or prejudice on part of the Judge constitutes no legal incapacity
to sit on trial of a cause, nor is it a sumcient ground to authorize a change of
place of trial. People v. Wm. Williams, 24 Cal. 31.

23. The fact alone, that the Judge on a previoustrial of the same cause made
an_ etiirongxus ruling, is no evidence of the existence of bias or prejudice in his
min . .

24. An affidavit made on application to change the place of trial, which
states, “ that the Judge, as the amant is informed, and verily believes, has frequently stated that he believes the amant guilty of the crime charged in the
indictment, and has frequently e ssed himself against and adversely to the
amant in connection with said c arge, ” does not merit consideration, as it
contains a mere upon information and belief, and does not show how
the information was 0 ' ed, or upon what the belief was based. Id.

25. When motion must be made.--The motion should be made before or

at the time of dling ademurrer, where the unds are a parent on the face of
the complaint-(Pearlces v. Freer, 9 Cal.  or before,pas in the answer. It

comestoolsteafterananswertothe merits. i1bomsv.Bandall,3Cal.438;

. Bey v. Sanford, 5 Id. 117.

26. May be waived.—The right is one which a party may waive, either
y or by implication. Pearlces v. Freer, 9 Cal. 642.

. It is a mere privilege which may be waived. It is not matter in abatementof the writ. The privilege must be claimed by motion to change the

venue at the p time and lace. Watt v. While, 18 Cal. 324; overruling
Vallejo v. Ream’? Cal. 462. P

28. An objection to the venue, if made on grounds appearing in the compelaint, must be made at or before the time of filing the e demurrer, or it will
deemed waived. Pearlces v. Freer, 9 Cal. 642.
28;. If a defendant, sued in a county where he does not reside, demurs to the
complaint, and the demurrer is sustained, and he there demurs to an amended
complaint before giving notice of a motion for change of venue, he waives the

right to have the case tried in the county where he resides. Jonesel al. v.F1-oat,
28 Cal. 245.

29. All the defendants must join, unless. eto.—'l‘he application was
made by two of the defendants on the ground-—ilrst, that two 0 the three defendants were residents of Sonoma county, and that the other defendant, Bronson, was a mere nominal arty. Second, for the convenience of witnesses.
Third, that an impartial tria could not be had in San Francisco. The amdavim
of the defendants, Swift and Jones, state that they are advised and believe that
Bronson was made nominally a defendant, but without any intention on the

part of the laintitf to prosecute the action a at him. This is denied by theplaintifff in is counter affidavit. The action a to recover damages for imuries
sustained from an attack by a steer, being driven by the defendants through the

streets of San Francisco. All are cha d with having committed the act which
caused the injury, and the uestion w ether any one of the defendants is not

roperly chargeable with c act, cannot be tried u on this motion. The deendants do not allege in their affidavit that Bronson s not equally liable with
themselves, and equally participated in the commission of the act com lained
of. He is thereforee a proper party to the action. The rule is well sett ed that
all of the defendants must join in the application for a change of venue, or a

ood reason shown why the do not. otherwise it will be denied. (Sailly v.
M 6 Wend. Rep. 508- v. Dorsheim. 19 Wend. Rep. 700; Welling v.
Sweet, 1 How. Pr. Rep. 156 ; mmons v. McDougal, 2d How. Pr. Rep. 77.) As
Bronson is a resident of San Francisco, the motion so far as it was founded on
the ground of residence was properly denied. Ficlcens v. Jones et al., October

T., 1863. (Not reported.)

30. Granting motion discretionary.--The granting of a chan of venue
is discretiona with theCorurt below, subject to review onl in e cases of

gross abuse. eople v. Fislaer, 6 Cal. 154; Sloan v. Smith. 3 l. 410.

31. The granting or refusing of a motion to change the venue on the ground
ofviconvenlienge of witnesses is discretionaryahtglile   and subject to
re ewony casesofabuse. Pm-son‘ v. c , a. .

32. Although the affidavit upon which the application to change the venue of
an action is made ma not show any legal cause for such change, still if the
Court grants the app ication, it has acted_d"udicially upon a matter within its
cognizance, and where it was clothed W1 discretion, and by the order the
place of trial becomes changed. The People v. Warren T. Session, 24 Cal. 78.

33. An order refusing a change of venue on the application of defendant in
a criminal prosecution, will only be received in cases of gross abuse of discretion. People v. Fisher, 6 Cal. 154.

34. Granting of motion. imperative. when.-—Where a suit for real estate is
brought in the wrong county, a motion to change the venue, and not demurrer,
is the proper remedy. And in such case. there is no discretion in the Court,
the change being a matter of right. Watts v. While, 13 Cal. 321.

35. Exception to the general rnle.—Where the same fraudulent debtor
confesses several fraudulent judgments in several Courts, it would not be necessary for a creditor to bring a different suit in each did'erent Court. And where
there is an exoe tion to the general rule, it is the business of the glaintif to
show in his comp aint that he comes within it. Uhlfelder v. Levy, 9 aL 607.

36. The Court will not move in the ant instance.—'l‘he Court is not
bound by its own motion. to chan e the venue. Vallejo v. Randall, 5 Cal. 461;

overruled so far as it conflicts wi Watts v. While, 13 Cal. 321.

37. names may transmit the papers. eto.—If the defendant procures a
change of venue the laintitf may pay the costs and transmit the pa ers to the
county fixed as the p ace of trial, and have the case placed on the c endar and

tried. Brooks v. Douglass, 32 Cal. 208.

38. Generally.-—-When two motions are nding in an action at the same
time, one to change the venue, and one to ismiss, an entry of a judgment of
dismissal, without any formal order denyin the motion to change the venue, is
a virtual denial of the same. The People v. ose Ramond de la Guerra, 24 Cal. 7 3.

39. In making the order changing the venue, the Court acts judicially upon a

matter within its own cognizance. People v. Warren TSea:ton, 24 Cal. 83.
40. An appeal from an order refusing to change the venue of an action,

operates as a stay of all further proceedings in the case in the Court below until
such an appeal is determined. Pierson v. Mccahill, 23 Cal. 249.

41. Removing causes to the Federal Courts.—See note (2) to this section,

ante. Greely v. Townsend et al., 25 Cal. 604. V
43. To authorize a transfer of an action, in which there are several defendants, from a State Court to a United States Court, under the provisions of the
Judiciary Act of 1789, on the ground of the slienage of parties defendant, all

of the defendants must be within the description of the persons entitled to a
transfer. and all must join in the application. Calderwood v. Hagar, 20 Cal. 167.

44. Thus, where in an action of ejectment commenced in a State Court against
several defendants, some of whom were citizens of the United States and of this
State, and one of whom was an alien residing in the State, an a plication was
made by the alien defendant for a transfer of the case to the U ted States Circuit Court under the rovisions of said Act, which was denied: Held, that the
denial was proper. d.

45. All defendants in an action in a State Court must be aliens or citizens of
another State to authorize the removal of the cause to a Federal Court for trial.
Caldencood v. Braly et a1., 28 Cal. 97.

46. An apgreal from the Supreme Court of this State to the Sn reme Court of
the United tates is taken within ten days “ after rendering e judgment”
within the meaning of these terms, as used in the Act of Congress, and operates
as a supersedeas, if the writ of error is sued out and lodged with the clerk and
the proper security given. within ten days from the time a petition for rehearing
is denied. Magraw v. Hctllynn, 32 Cal. 257.

47. Removal from Probate to District Court:.— Vida Hltte1’s Dig., paragraphs 5718, 5992. .

TITLE III.

OF THE MANNEB OF COMMENCING CIVIL ACTIONS. 1'

Stones 22. Actions, how commenced.

Complaint, how indorsed; when summons may issue, how
signed and issued. .

Summons, requisites of.

Summons, time to answer.

Summons, what notice to be inserted therein.

Lia pendens, filing and effect of.

Summons, by whom served.

Summons, how served.

Service of summons by publication, when defendant cannot
be found, etc.

Order of publication, what to contain.

Action  two or more defendants, how plaintiff may

roc

Proo of service, how made.
. Certiiicate or affidavit of service, what to state.
35. Jurisdiction, when Court shall have acquired.

-“E3 $3 .3§33.‘3§.3’-3 .3

§ 22. ‘Actitms, how commenced.

Civil actions in the District Courts, Superior Court of the
City of San Francisco, and the County Courts, shall be com 

(lieu:-nus cw18M,194; Woon’s morn. 219, Au.1817;En'rn.r.'s Dre.,Pn. 1209-12.
an ‘ ac and ' suits consltia.
h I“:aw#wmadw suaiataisuw byeragsind

1. Bultssgnn-tscounfymaybecommenced inanyoourtofthatcountncrtnsbisti-lot
Courtottheludtctalmstrct tnwhtchiuchconntyissltutsnth thesamemannersssnttl

menced by the filing of a complaint with the Clerk of the
Court in which the action is brought, and the issuing of a
summons thereon ; provided, that, after the filing of the complaint, a defendant in the action may appear, answer or demur, whether the summons has been issued or not, and such

appearance, answer or demurrer shall be deemed a waiver

of summons.
‘ Amended, Stat. 1855, 303; N. Y. Code, § 127. See post, $623.

1. Summons, waived by appca.rance.—A voluntary appearance, by a defendant, gives ' 'sdiction of his person without the issuance of any summons.
This was eqn the case under the Practice Act as it stood in 1855. Hayes
7. Shattuck, 21 al. 51.

2. Service waived, by appearance.—An appearance by attorney, at common law, and by the express letter of our statute, amounts to an acknowledgment or waiver of service. Sup/dam v. Pitcher, 4 Cal. 280.

3. Suit. when commenced.—-Where a complaint was filed on the thirtieth
day of October, 1856, and no summons was issued thereon, and an amended
coreniplaint was filed on the twenty-sixth of January, 1857, and summons issu thereon: Held, that the suit was not commenced until the issuing of the
summons. Green v. Jackson, 10 Cal. 374.

4. The provision in the General Limitation Act of 1850, that the filing of the
complaint shall be deemed a commencement of suit, applies to that act only,
and not to the Mechanics’ Lien Act. Under this latter act, to commence a
suit within six months from the expiration of a credit given, a complaint
must be nled and a summons issued. Flandreau v. White, 18 Cal. 639. ‘

 

against private persorlmidvrceided. that suits between counties shall be commenced in a
Ocurt of competent in ction. in any county not a party to such action.

2. Incountieswherethci-eisaBoardoi Supervisors. havinganacting ChairmanorPnesident of such Board. the original process and papers shall be servedon such Chairmancs
President, in the same manner as upon private persons; when there is no such Chairman or
President. they shall in like manner be served on he County Judge oi’ the county.

8. Immediately ontheeervice oi’ snchprocess. itshall bethedutycti theoiiicersoserved
to deliver such recess. and all papers accompan the same. to the District Attorney br
such county, w ose duty it shall be to defend suc cause or proceeding on the part of such
county until nnal Judgment or compromise of such suit ~or&r;oceeding.

4. suitsbrcnght fororagainstacountyshallbebyorin nameot snchccnnty.

(2) 8'rs1'U'r2s or 1865-6, 856. Approved April 2d, 1068.

Bncrrox .—8eciion 24 of said Act is hereby amended so as to read as follows:

Bscnon 24. No person shall sue a county in any case or for any demand, unlesshe or
sheehallfirstpresenthisorherclaim crdemandtothe Boardoi Superviscrs ioraliowaace.
andif iailorreiusetcallowthesameorsomepartthereofthepartyteenngaggrieved
may suet econnty, and iitheparty suingshallrecovcrin theactiontheiullamountotthe
account. claim or demand sented to the said Board for allowance, then the said Board
shall allow the amount of e said judgment and costs as a just claim net the county.
But ii’ the party suing shall not recover in the action the full amount of account. claim
or demand resented to the said Board for allowance. and upon which the action shall have
been brcug t, then all costs shall be recoveredagainsthimorherbythecounty. whens
the Board of Supervisors shall. it n the examination of any claim. account or demand of
any nature w r pnesentteg goers gr allowance, “find that the amount so claimed cl:
greater than c amoun us in econntyto epartyorpu-tiespresenting
same. or in whose name the same may be mod for allowance. t shall be the duty of
said Board to reject such claim. and they sh not consider such claim, account or demand.
or any part. until the next regular meeting of the Board; and no account. demand. or
an part thereof. which shall have been twice considered by them. except tocarry out the

r of a Court of competent jurisdiction relative thereto : and no account or claim against
a county. 1101' In! part thereof. shall be allowed by the Board. unless such claim, itemized
and properly veriiied. be presented to the Board within one year from the time such claim
accrued. when the claimsthuspresentedshall berqieeted in wholeorin .unless the
party holding the same shall. in six months alter the first rejection in commence his
action thereupon against such county. the cause of action shall be forever barred. All
claims for services and items of account of a similar naturampresented by any one of the
Boardofsu rsatanysessicnoftheBoerd,shallbe udedinoneaccountsooosh
sidsredby Bosrd.unlessbyconsentot thcBoard.

6.Anach'onwillbedeemedcommenced, within them ' ofthe
twenty-first section of the Statute of Limitations, if it appears tha a com‘ t was filed, irrespective of the issuance of summons thereon, or of the
that the complaint was amended before summons was issued. Allen v.
Harshall, Oct. '1‘., 1867. "Sharp v. Maguiro, 19 Cal. 577. Pimento! v. City of
San Francisco, 21 Cal. 368.
6. The mode of commencing suits and acquiring jurisdiction of the parties,
is controlled by the Practice Act, and not by the practice which prevailed at
common law. Dupuy v. Shear, 29_Cal. 238.

7. Quero.-—Whether a summons can be deemed issued, from the mere fact
that one has been made out by the clerk, with an intent on the part of the
complainant that it should issue within a reasonable time thereafter. Flatmdrecu v. Doumey, Oct.Term 1865. Not reported).
8. Appearance by mistake. See librbes v. Hyde, 81 Cal. 342.

§23. ‘Complaint, how indorsed ; when summons may issue,

The Clerk shall indorse on the complaint, the day, month,
and year, the same is filed, and at any time within one year
after the filing of the same, the plaintifff may have asummons
issued. The summons shall be signed by the Clerk and directed to the defendant, and be issued under the seal of the
Court.

‘Amended, Stat. 1860, 298. Seeante, 9 22.

1. If the Courtis authorized to direct a summons to issue after the irah'on of the year, the exercise of the power rests in the legal discretion 0 the
Court, and its action willnot be set aside on appeal, unless it clearly appears
gt the discretion was not soundly exercised. Dupuy v. Shear, 2 Cal.

2. Since the amendment of 1860 to the twenty-third section of the Practice
Act, the Clerk is not authorized to issue a summons in an action, without an
order from the Court, after the expiration of one year from the tiling of the
complaint. This principle applies as wellto causes in which the complaint
was filed before as to those in which the complaint was med after the amendmendment took effect. Id.

3. When a plaintiff commences an action b filing a complaint and issuing
summons, but makes no service on the degndant until nine years have
an order of the Court, made on defendant's motion, striking out the
complaint for want of prosecution, is not such an abuse of discretion as to
justify the appellate Court in reversing the order. Id.

§ 24. ‘Summons, requisites of.

The summons shall state the parties to the action, the
Court in which it is brought, the county in which the complaint is filed, the cause and general nature of the action,
and require the defendant to appear and answer the complaint
within the time mentioned in the next section, after the service of the summons, exclusive of the day of service, or that
judgment by default will be taken against him, according to

the prayer of the complaint, briefly stating the sum of
money or other relief demanded in the complaint ; and the
Clerk shall also indorse on the summons the names of the
p1aintiii"s attorneys.

‘Amended, Stat. 1854, 84; 1859, 89. See “ 26, post ; Abb. Form, No. 99106, and notes; Bancz-of't’s Forms, No. 613. »

1. If the summons be radically defective, it will not support a judgment
by default. People v. Woodleif, 2 Cal. 241.

2. Inthiscase, the summons wasreturnableinthiatzinsteadof fo days,
and did not state that judgment by default would be en unless the efendant a and answered, not specify any amount for which judgment
woul taken. Id.

3. The Court may allow the summons to be amended by inserting a notice
to the defendant of the nature of the demand, and that unless he a ear
and answer within the time therein specided,9i'udgment by default be
taken  Pollock v. Hunt, 2 Cal. 1 . .

4.Theonlyo ofasummonsistobringapartyintoCourt,andifthat
ebjectbeobtain theappearanceandpgeladingofaparty, there can be
no injury to him. it}: v. Curtis, 7 Cal. .

6. In actions for fraud, the summons must apprise the defendant that on
failure to answer, judgment will be taken against him for the fraud. A mere
notice in the summons that a mono judgment will be taken, will not support
a judgment for fraud. Porter v. aw-smut. 8 CaL 619.

§ 25. Summons, time to answer.

The time in which the summons shall require the defendant to answer the complaint, shall be as follows :

lst. If the defendant is served within the county in which
the action is brought, ten days.°

2d. If the defendant is served out of the county, butin the
district in which the action is brought, twenty days. 3d. In all other cases, forty days.

1. Courts will take judicial notice of the territorial extent of the 'urisdiction and severe‘ ty exercised defaeto by their own Government, an of the
local divisions o the country into States, counties, cities, towns, etc. Peoplev.8mith, 1Cal.9;seenoteto924.

2. The Practice Act allows a party ten days after the service of the‘ summons, to me his answer, if served in the county ; twenty da , if out of the
county, but within the judicial district; and fo days in other cases. A
non-resident of the State would come under the t clause, and be entitled
g5forty days after the service of the summons. Greweu v. Henderson, 5 Cal.
' 3. An answer filed without leave of Court, after the time for answering has
expired, but before default has been entered, is not a nullity, but at most an
irregulari . Bowers v. Diclcerson, 18 Cal. 420.

4. The urt in its discretion may strike out an answer so filed, or retain it,
or permit another to be filed; but plaintifff cannot, as of right, have such
answer struck out. For these purposes, defendant is not in default until his
default has been actually entered in accordance with the statute. Id. .

§ 26. Summons, what notice to-be inserted therein.

There shall also be inserted in the summons a notice, in
substance as follows:

lst. In an action arising on contract for the recovery only
of money or damages, that the plaintid will take judgment
for a sum specified therein, if the defendant fail to answer the
complaint.

2d. In other actions, that if the defendant fail to answer
the complaint, the plaintifff will apply to the Court for the

relief demanded therein. .

8eeante§94;N.Y.Code§129.

1. Where judgment by default is entered in an action against a for
fraudulently converting money of the plaintifff, the summons must ve_apmed the defendant that, on failure to answer, judgment would be taken against
' for the fraud. A more notice in the summons that a money Edgment
erma

vonldbetakemwillnot supports 'udgment for fra d. Porter .
80al.619. J n Y

§ 27. ‘Lie pendens,jilz'ng and qfect of.

In an action affecting the title to real property, the plaintill‘, at the time of filing the complaint, and the defendant, at
the time of filing his answer, when affirmative relief is claimed
in such answer, or at any time afterwards, may file with

the Recorder of the county in which the property is situated, a notice of the pendency of the action, containing the
names of the parties to, and the object of, the action, and a
description of the property in that county affected thereby ;
and the defendant may also, in such notice, state the nature
and extent of the relief claimed in the answer. From the

time of filing, only, shall the pendency of the action be constructive notice to a purchaser, or encumbrance of the property affected thereby.

mmended, Stat. 1862, 672; N. '1. Code, 9132. Banoroft’s, Forms, 598, 699;
Abb. Forms, 109-112.

1. Ejectment action of Its pendena not necessary.-—'1‘his section does
not apply to actions of ejectmsnt, but to proceedings in ohancery, the purpose
of which is to turn equitable estates into legal ones or to enforce liens upon
legal estates. Wattson v. Dowling, 26 Cal. 125.

' 2. The notice of la’: pendens does not ap ly to the action of ejeotment. It aplies only to actions which operate direc y upon the title. Long v. Neville, 29

l. 131.

3. The twenty-seventh section of the Practice Act, relating to the tiling of a
lie pendent does not apply to actions of ejectment, but to roceedings in chanoery, the purpose of which is to turn equitable estates into egal dues, or to enbree liens upon legal estates. Wattson v. Bowling, 26 Cal. 125.

4. Generally.--A bona yids purchaser of land, without notice of proceeding
ending for its condemnation, at the time of purchase. no notice of He
eing filed, is not affected by the proceedings. Beasley v. MouatainLalce Wales
Company, 13 Cal. 306.

5. The common law doctrine of tie pendens does not apply to proceedings before a Board of Supervisors for condemnation of land for road purposes.
Curran v. Shattuck, 24 Cal. 427.

6. Under our statute, the mere pendency of a suit does not charge the purchaser of the subject matter of the suit as a purchaser pendants lite at common
law. A notice of its pendens must be filed or appear o record. Head v. For
dyes, 17 Cal. 149. Otherwise as to actions of ejectment. 26 Cal. 125.

7. Where notice of (is pendens was not filed. plaintiff cannot successfully set
up that notice, would have done no good to the purchaser, because he could
make no defense, or no better defense than the vendor. The object of the
notice is to give the opportunit of defense, and also to notify third persons of
the litigation. Richardson v. its, 18 Cal. 102; Sampson v. Ofileyer, 22 Cal.
200; Ham v. Jones, 28 Cal. 194.

8. Our statute does not ve any new hts to the laintiff. but limits right
which he had before. It s mply adds to e common aw mle a single term, to
wit: to require for constructive notice, not only a suit in equity cases but
tiling notice for it. Id.

9. Our statute (Prac. Act, see. 27) changes the common law rule upon this
subject in ejectment cases only.

10. A purchaser of real property, pending suit—a suit in equity—aifecting
the title to it. is not bound by the Judgment, unless notice of He pendensbe
filed with the County Recorder before the purchase. Id.

11. The only way to cha e a purchaser of property, pending a suit, with
constructive notice of the su t, is by filing a notice of its pendens according to
the statute. Ault v. Gassaway, 18 cal. 205.

12. The elfect of (is pendens is to make a subsequent purchaser from the party
a mere volunteer, affected by the judgment rendered, or which may be rendered
in the suit in which notice is gv  v. Haynes, 13 Cal. 594; Curtis v.
Butter, 15 Cal. 263 ; Haynes v. C , 23 Cal. 409.

13. Purchasers after lis pendens nled.—If a lie pendens is filed at the
commencement of an action brought to set aside a deed on the ground of fraud,

arties who buy of the defendant pending the litigation are bound by the decree.
urlburt v. Butenof, 27 Cal. 54.

14. A person who. pending an action for the foreclosure of a mortgage, and
with notice of its pendency, purchases from one of the defendants therein a
plortion of the mortgaged premises, occupies the same position as his grantor

reference to the issuance of a writ of assistance in favor of the purchaser
under the decree. Montgomery v. Byers, 21 CaL 107.

15. Actual not:ice.—A party taking an interest in land pending'a foreclosure.
with actual notice of the action, is bound to same extent, as if a lie pendens is
filed. Sharp v. Lumley et a1., Jan. T., 1868. (Not reported.)

§ 28. ‘ Sumnwns, by whom served.

- The summons shall be served by the sheriff of the county
where the defendant is found, or by his deputy, or by a person specially appointed by him, or appointed by a Judge of
the Court in which the action is brought, or by any white
male citizen of the United States, over twenty-one years" of
age, who is competent to be a witness on the trial of the
action, except as hereinafter provided. A copy of the complaint, certified by the clerk, shall be served with the summons. When the summons is served by the sheriff or his

4. Generally.-—A bona yids purchaser of land, without notice of proceedings
ending for its condemnation, at the time of purchase. no notice of lis

pendent:
eing mod, is not an‘ected by the proceedings. Beasley v. .MountainLalce WotaCompany, 13 Cal. 306.

5. The common law doctrine of lis pendens does not apply to proceedings before a Board of Supervisors for condemnation of land for road purposes.
Curran v. Shattuclc, 24 Cal. 427.

6. Under our statute, the mere pendency of a suit does not charge the purchaser of the subject matter of the suit as a purchaser pcndenle lite at common
law. A notice of its pendens must be filed or appear ot record. Head v. Ebrdyce, 17 Cal. 149. Otherwise as to actions of ejectment. 26 Cal. 125.

7. Where notice of lie pendens was not filed. plaintiff cannot successfully set
up that notice, would have done no good to the purchaser, because he could
make no defense, or no better defense than the vendor. The object of the
notice is to give the opportunit of defense, and also to notify third persons of
the liti ation. Richardson v. its, 18 Cal. 102; Sampson v. Ofileyer, 22 Cal.
200; gem v. Jones, 28 Cal. 194.

8. Our statute does not give any new ri hts to the laintiff. but limits rights
which he had before. It simply adds to e common w rule a single term, to
wit: to require for constructive notice, not only a suit in equity cases but
tiling notice for it. Id.

9. Our statute (Prac. Act, sec. 27) changes the common law rule upon this
subject in ejectment cases only.

10. A purchaser of real property, pending suit—a suit in equity—atl‘ecting
the title to it. is not bound by the Judgment, unless notice of (is pendens be
filed with the County Recorder before the purchase. Id.

11. The only way to charge a purchaser of property, pending a suit, with
constructive notice of the su t, is by tiling a notice of Its pendens according to

 . l8(.

al- 2M

I#i&An&.-L-0

deputy, it shall be returned with the certificate or affidavit
of the officer of its service, and of the service of the copy
of the complaint, to the oiiice of the clerk from which the
summons issued. When the summons is served by any other
person, as before_ provided, it shall be returned to the office
of the clerk from which it issued, with the aiiidavit of such
person of its service, and of the service of a copy of the
complaint. If there be more than one defendant in . the
action, and such defendants reside within the county, a copy
of the complaint need be served on only one of the defendants.

1 Amended Stat. 1854, 42; 1855, 196; 1859. 39 ; 1860, 298.
1. Courts will take judicial notice of the signature of their cmcers, as such,
but not of parties to a cause. Alderson v. Bell, 9 Cal. 321.

2. —Courts should presume that the sheriff served all process
wiéliiln his j iction, where no place of service is stated. Crane v. Brannon,
3 . 196.

3. Where he states that he served defendant with a certified copy of the
complaint. it will be presumed that the copy was certfiled by the clerk and not
by some one else. Curtis v. Herrick, 14 C 119.

4. Where the levy is made by posting a copy of the writ on the premises, it is
not necessary to show by the return that the premises were at the time unoccupied. Ritter v. Scannell, 11 Cal. 248 ; 0'0onnor v. Blaloe, 29 Cal. 312.

5. Descrlpi:lon.—'l‘he word “ appurtenances ” insuilicient to com rehend
within its  any personal property as the subject of a levy. onroe v.
Ihomas, 5 . 4 .

6. A description in a she:-ifs return of city lots, by numbers, referring to the
omcial map, is sunicient. Watch v. Szdlivan, 8 Cal. 186.

7. Amendment, mistake.—A mistake in the date of a return my be corrected at any time. Bitter v. Scannell, 11 Cal. 248.

8. The sherif has no right to amend his return so as to affect vested rights.
Newhall v. Provost, 6 Cal. 87; Webster v. Haworth, 8 Cal. 26.

9. Return conclusive.—-His return is not traversable, nor can it be attacked

go(l:i:lterally, even if has been guilty of fraud or collusion. Egery v. Buchanan,
. 56.

10. Returns. howmade.--All returns must be made by the deputy in the
name and by the authority of the sheriff. Joyce v. Joyce, 5 Cal. 449.

ll. A summons was served by a deput sheriff and returned with the following signature to the return: Eligah F. Co e, D. S. Judgment was rendered by
default: Edd, that the judgment was null and void; the return should have
been in the name of thesherid by the deputy. Rowley v. Howard, 23 Cal. 401.

12. A$dnvit of 8ervice.—The anidavit of service required by this section
must show that the person serving it was a white male citizen, over twenty-one
years of age, competent to testify in the cause, and that a ccrtiiied copy of the

complaint accompanied the summons. McMillan and Wife v. Reynolds, 11 Cal.
378.

§ 29. ‘ Summons, how served.

The summons shall be served by delivering a copy thereof,
as follows :

. lst. If the suit be against a corporation, to the President,

or other head of the corporation, Secretary, Cashier, or Managing Agent, thereof.

2d. If the suit be against a foreign corporation, or a nonresident joint stock company, or association, doing business
within this State, to an agent, cashier or secretary, thereof.

8d. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years, to
such minor personally, and also to his father, mother, guardian ; or if there be none within the State, then to any person
having the care, or control, of such minor, or with whom he

resides, or in whose service he is employed.

4th. If against a person judicially declared to be of unsound mind, or incapable of conducting his own affairs, and
for whom a guardian has been appointed, to such guardian.

5th. In all other cases, to the defendant personally.

‘Amended, Stat. 1854, 85; 1861, 496; Counties, how served, see ante, note
to Q 22; Abb. Forms, Nos. 132-135.
1. Corporations. service on.—A sherif ‘a return on the summons against

a corporation, that he served the same on the president and secretary of the
company, is prima facie evidence that the persons named in the return were
such officers. Rowe v.. Table Mountain Water 00., 10 Cal. 441.

2. The return of a sheriff on a summons, that he served it on one Pendleton, one of the partners and associates of the company, is prima facie

managi
Cal. 343.

evidence that Pendleton was such partner and associate. Wilson v. Spring

Hill Quartz Mining 00., 10 Cal. 445.
3. In a suit against a co ration, the summons must be served on one of

the oiilcers or agents nam in the Practice Act. Aileen v. Quart: Rock 00.,

6 Cal. 186.

4. Service on a in possession of the property, who does not appear

gafbenlone 21; the o oers named, will not entitle the plaintiii’ to a judgment by
a t. .

6. Where, in an action against an incorporated company, the return of the
sheriff showed that he had served the summons in the action “ upon James
Street, one of the proprietors of the company: " Held, that it was not sumcient evidence of service to give the Court jurisdiction, it not appearing that

Street was president, or head of the corporation, or secretary, cashier or
'ng agent thereof. O'Brien v. Shaw’: Flat and Tuolumne Oanal 00., 10

6. Where the summons was issued against Adams & Co., and served on O.
B. Macy, and nothing ap ed to connect Macy with Adams & Co.: Held,
that judgment by data t could not be sustained. Adams v. Town, 3 Cal.

247.

7. hdlnor.-—'I'he requirement of the statute being positive, that in actions
against a minor under the age of fourteen years, personal service of summons must be made; in cases where he resides out of this State, and his
residence is known to laintiif, such residence should be stated in the amiavit for publication. Ggey v. Palmer, 9 Cal. 616.

8. Service of the summons upon infants, although under the age of fourteen years, should be made by e ositing a summons and certided copy of
the complaint in thepostomoe,  ted totheinfant, thesameas tocther

defendants. Id.

9. Personal service, how made.—-Under the Practice Act, personal
serviceof writsandprocessismadebydeliveringaoopyto the party upon

whmn service is required. Independentof the‘ statutes, the mode would be

showing’ the original’ ' under seal of the Court, and delivering a copy. EdEondson v. Mason, 16 Cal. 386.

10. Service by '1'elegraph.—See note (1) to the next section.

§ 30. Service of Summons by publication when defendant cannot be found, etc. C)

When the person on whom the service is to be made, resides out of the State, or has departed from the State; or
cannot, after due diligence, be found within the State; or
conceals himself to avoid the service of summons, and the’

fact shall appear by anidavit to the satisfaction of the Court,
or a Judge thereof, or a County Judge, and it shall in like
manner appear, that a cause of action exists against the defendant in respect to whom the service is to be made, or that
he is a necessary or proper party to the action, such Court or"

Judge may grant an order that the service be made by the
publication of the summons.

N. Y. Code, §l35;Banc'roft’s Forms, Nos. 641-642; Abb. Forms, Nos. 113117

1. The sections of the Pracdce Act providing for the service of summons
on a defendant by publication, being in derogation of the common law, must
be strictly construed and pursued. Ricloetson '9'. Richardson, 26 Cal. 162;
Forbesv. Hyde, 31 Cal. 342; People v. Huber, 20 Cal. 81. No presum tion in
favor of jurisdiction will be indulged. Mclllinn v. Whelan, 27 Cal. .

2. Amdavit, Iumciency o£—Where the attorney of record makes an affidavit that ' ' ent search has been made for the defendant, and that he
conceals ' to avoid service of recess, it is sumcient for an order for
the service of summons to be made publication. Anderson v. Parlcer, 6
Cal. 201.

3. An affidavit for an order of the publication of the summons, upon the
ground of the absence of the defendant, which states that the defendant could
not. after due diligence, be found in the county where the action was pending;
that amant had inquired of Fogg, who is an intimate friend of defendant,
to his whereabouts; that Fogg was unable to inform him, and that plain '
did not know where defendant could be found within the State, is insudicient
to authorize the publication. A publication made u n such an affidavit will
not give the Court jurisdiction of the person of e defendant. Swain. v.
Chase, 12 Cal. 283. g V

4. An affidavit to obtain an order for ‘the service of a summons by publication must show whether the residence of the person u n whom service is

sought is known to the amant, and, if known, the resi ence must be stated.
An affidavit which merely repeats the language or substance of the statute in

ihpgnvcd" A 180.11. 191,288.
Inunolls. mu writer-orderlneuycivllsultorprooeedlnq. and all otherdpe‘p.e°t-Ike!

An!
quringeervlw bet;-ensmlttedbytelegraph-for service many place. an
to copy 3 wrlt. or order, or paper. so tranemitted._may be served or executed by
oaleerorpereontowhomlt lesent for tha=£.urpose. and returned by hlm'.1t any soin-nhe nlsIte.Intheeememannsr.endtn- semeforeeandedeet in all reepeetaee

thceof mtghtbetl deltveredtohlm‘-endtheofficerorpersoueervln or enII

 

Oourtfromwhich itwls tnuedan a certiued co thereofehull be preserved

telegnpholncetromwhtehltwnseent. Iueendlng eithertluorlglnel area-uaoe copy

insumcient. The ultimate facts of the statute must not be stated in the affidavit, but the probative facts, upon which the ultimate facts depend. Bioloetson v. Richardson, 26 Cal. 152.
5. It is not suiiicient to state generally in such affidavit that, after due diliEnnce, the defendant cannot be found within the State, or that the plaintifff
a good cause of action against him, or that he is a necessary party; but
the acts constituting due diligence, or the facts showing that he is a necessary
party, should be stated. Id.

6. Before jurisdiction of a defendant can be acquired by publication of summons, it must appear by affidavit, either that the defendant resides out of the
State, or has departed from the State, or cannot, after due diligence, be found
within the State, or that he conceals himself to avoid the service of summons,
and in addition thereto, it must also appear by affidavit, that a cause of action
exists against the defendant, or that he is a necessary, or proper party. Braly
v. Seaman, 30 Cal. 610.

7. An atiidavit to obtain an order for the publication of summons on the
Sound that the defendant cannot, after due diligence, be found within the

tate, which does not state whether the residence of the defendant is known,
and does not show that the ailiant does not know where the defendant may be
found, is insuiiicient to authorize the publication of summons. Id.

8. When the affidavit for ublication of summons presents some evidence
tending to prove each j ' ctional fact, but of a character clearly too inconclusive to justify an order of publication, the order is erroneous, and the
judgment will be reversed on a peal; but it is not void. If there is a total
want of evidence u n which to the order, the judgment is void In the
former case the ju cannot be attacked collaterally, but only on appeal.

Fbrbes v. Hyde, 31 .
9. The existence of a cause of action against the defendant is a jurisdictional

fact which must be made to appear before an order for publication of sum
alone can be made, and if it does not appear by the affidavit, the order is void.

Id.
10. Facts should be set out in an affidavit for an order to publish summons

and not a general e ression of opinion or belief that an ultimate jurisdictional
fact exists, without t e probative facts upon which such opinion or belief is

founded. Id.

_ 11. An affidavit to obtain an order for publication of summons, which states
that the deponent “has a good cause of action in this suit against the said defendant, and that he is a proper par defendant thereto, as he verily believes,”
does not state an fact teudin to s ow a cause of action, and an order and
publication b on it are vo d. Id. Hahn v. Kelly, Oct. 'l‘., 1867.

12. Order, form and Iumciency o£—An order for the service of summons
.by publication must state the facts proved by the ailldavit upon which it is
based. It is not sumcient for the order to state, generally, that the defendant
resides out of the State, or cannot after due diligence be found within the State,
or that a cause of action exists against the defendant. Ricloetson v. Richardson,

26 Cal. 152.

13. Where, after complaint nled and before any summons was issued, an
order was obtained from the Judge that “ summons do issue ” and that it be
published, and without any further order summons was subse uently issued
and published: Held, that the attempt thus to acquire juri 'ction of the
defendant was inefectual, and that a judgment rendered ‘net him by
default, without any other service of process, was void. 1’ v. Huber, 20

Cal. 81.
14. An order to blish a summons made in advance of the issuance of the

iummons, is a n 'ty. Id.

15. The Judge has no power to order a summons to issue, but onl to order
a summons alread issued to be served in a special manner. Id. cblinn v.
Whelan, 27 Cal. ; Forbes v. Hyde, 31 Cal. 342.

16. The affidavits and orders referred to form no part of the judgment roll;
and it is a matter of no consequence whether the jurisdiction of the Court

appears amrmatively upon the judgment roll or not, for if it does not, it will

be conclusively presumed when the jn ent is collaterally attached. Hahn
v. Kdly d: Jlorse, October T., 1867. ( ot reported.) ‘

17. Amdavlt or order, sumciency oi; how tested.——'1‘he question of '
the sndiciency of an affidavit and order for publication of summons may be
raised by motion made in the suit or by an appeal supported by a statement.
Burp v. Daugucy, October T., 1867.

O 18. Discrepancies in the published noticc.—Where the summons as
published, on being compared with the original, discloses certain discrepancies
of a purely literal character, it is held sumcient that, in sense and meaning,
the original summons and the published version of it are identical. Sharp v.
Du-sgney, October T., 1867.

19. New summons. issued, when.—When an order is made for the service
of summons by publication, and a summons is issued, and a supplemental comlaint is afterwards filed, and a summons issued thereon, the original action
mes merged in the action as supplemented, and the Court will not acquire
jurisdiction 0 the person of absent defendants by nblication of the original
summons, but the summons issued on the su plementa complaint must be served
by publication. MGM inn v. Whelan, 27 al. 309 ; Forbes V. Hyde, 31 Id. 342

20. How summons should be published.—If service on a defendant is
attempted to be procured by publication, the summons must be published as it
in when the order of publ cation was made. Hcllfinn v. Whelan, 27 Cal. 309.

21. Order. court acts judicially in grant:in3.—On granting the order for
the publications of summons, the Court acts judicially, and can know nothing
about the facts upon which the order is to be granted, except from the allldavit.
Biclcetson v. Richardson, 26 Cal. 152.

---— -_u_..- -._ "‘ -""

V82; he
. be
An Act to amend an Act entitled “An Act to regulate proceedings at
in civil cues in Courts of Justice of this State," passed April 29th.
I851. The People of the State of California, represented in senate or
and Assembly, do enact as follows ; [
SI-zcnos l.-Section thirty-one of the above entitled Act n
is hereby amended so as to read as follows: )1‘
5 31.-The order shall direct the publication to be made in so
a newspaper to be designated as most likely to give notice to 
the person to be served, and for such length of time as may '
be deemed reasonable, at least once a week: promded. that L1,
publication against a defendant residing out of the State, or r_
absent therefrom, shall not be less than tam mom’./ut: and; 3f

provided, furlher, that when such public-aliou is -made in

the paper knot:-u as I/M’ “State I’aper." 17. shall be made: ,9
elsewhere. In case of publication, \\'he1'e the residence of a ll
non-resident or absent defendant is known, the Court or

Judge shall ulso direct a copy of the summons and complaint, (1
to he forthwith deposited in the Post-oliice directed to line , ,1persou. to be served at his place of residence. W'hen pub _

licgxjon is ordered, personal service of a copy of the sum J
mains and complaint out of the State shall be equivalent to I.

publication and deposit in ‘the Post.-oliice. In either case the l."

service of the summons shall be deemed complete at the
expiration of the time prescribed by the order for pnl»lirn~
tiun. In actions upon contracts for the direct paymem of
monev. the Court in its discretion may, instead of ordering

be conclusively presumed when the ju?ment is collaterally attached. Hahn
v. Kdly d: Morse, October T., 1867. ( ot reported.) ‘

17. Amdavit or order, sumciency ot; how tsstsd.—The question of‘

the sumciency of an affidavit and order for publication of summons may be
raised by motion made in the suit or by an appeal supported by a statement.
&a'11> v. Duugney, October T., 1867.

‘ 18. Discrepancies in the published not:ice.—Where the summons as
published, on being compared with the original, discloses certain discrepancies
of a purely literal character, it is held sumcient that, in sense and meaning,
the original summons and the published version of it are identical. Sharp v.
Du-ugncy. October T., 1867.

19. New summons. issued, when.—When an order is made for the service
of summons by publication, and a summons is issued, and a supplemental complaint is afterwards filed, and a summons issued thereon, the original action

merged in the action as supplemented, and the Court will not acquire
jurisdiction of the person of absent defendants by ublication of the original
summons, but the summons issued on the an plementa complaint must be served
by publication. MCM inn v. Whelan, 27 al. 309 ; Forbes v. Hyde, 31 Id. 342

20. How summons should be publid1sd.—If service on a defendant is
attempted to be rocured by publication, the summons must be published as it
was when the 0 er of publ cation was made. Hcllfirm v. Wlwlan, 27 Cal. 309.

21. Order, court acts judicially in grant:in3.—On granting the order for
the publications of summons, the Court acts judicially, and can know nothing
about the facts upon which the order is to be granted, except from the allldavit.

Biclcstson v. Richardson, 26 Cal. 152.

§ 31. Order to direct publication.

The order shall direct the publication to be made in anewspaper, to be designated as most likely to give notice to the
person to be served, and for such length of time as may be
deemed reasonable, at least once a week; provided, that
publication against a defendant residing out of the State, or
absent therefrom, shall not be less than three months. In
case of publication, where the residence of a non-resident or
absent defendant is known, the Court or Judge shall also
direct a copy of the summons and complaint to be forthwith
deposited in the postodice, directed to the person to be served,

at his place of residence. When publication is ordered, personal service of a copy of the summons and complaint, out of

the State, shall be equivalent to publication and deposit in the
postoilice. In either case, the service of the summons shall
be deemed complete at the expiration of the time prescribed
by the order for publication. In actions upon contracts for
the direct payment of money, the Court in its discretion may,
instead of ordering publication, or may, after publication,
appoint an attorney to appear for the non-resident, absent or
concealed defendant, and conduct the proceedings on his part.

. Ind a jud out against him will stand a 1' six mon

N. Y. Code, § 135, Bancroit’s Forms, No. 642. Abb. Forms, Nos. 113-127.

1. Attorney. appointznent o£-—The provision of the Practice Act author~
iaing udgment, personal and final, against a defendant who concealed himself
for w om the Court has appointed an attorney, with privilege to the defendant
tooome in and deny in six months, is not in violation of the Constitution of
the United States, or that of this State. Wars v. Robinson, 9 Cal. 107.

2. The Court may appoint an attorne for an alleged concealed defendant,

t have elapsed, unless he
filed his b ll to set aside the judgment on the ground of ii-and, that he was not
concealed. Id.

3. An affidavit which avers a cause of action against the defendant; that defendant cannot after due diligence be found in the State; that summons has
been tuned, but sheriff cannot find him ; that det'endant’s residence is in the
county where the summons issued, and that defendant still has a family residing

in said count —is insumcient to authorize the Court to appoint an attorney to »

represent suc absent defendant. Jordan v. Giblin, 12 Ca 100.

4. Publication of summons.--A publication of summons weekly against a
non—resident defendant, commencing on the 10th day of January, and ending
on the 9th day of April, is a ublication of three full calendar months, and the
that day of the forty within ich the defendant is required to answer is the
10th of April. Savings and Loan Society v. Thompson, 32 Cal. 347.

5. If the last day of the publication of a summons is in the same week in
which the three months expires, the publication is sunicient to give the Court
jurisdiction, although this day is less than three months from the amt day of
publication. Id.

6. If some of the publications of a summons, including the last, are made on
Sunday, in the regular issues of the paper, it does not vitiate the service. Id.

7. Month.—-The month contemplated by the statutes of this State is a calendar and not a lunar month. Id.

8. Depodt in the poetomoe«—'l‘he failure to deposit in the postotllce a
copy of the complaint and summons, directed to a minor, is not cured by the
appearance of the mother in her own behalf. Gray v. Palmer, 9 Cal. 616.

9. Portyda afcerpublioation to file answer.--The Practice Act fur
tier provides, relation to service on non-residents by publication, that “ the
service of the summons shall be deemed complete at the expiration of the time

rescribed by the order of publication.” Held, that the publication only atects
the service of the summons, and the defendant is entitled to forty da after the
period of publication to file his answer. Grcwdl v. Henderson, 5 Ca . 465.

10. G-eneral1y.—Where service is attempted in a mode different from the
course of the common law, the statute must be strictly pursued to give jurisdiction. Jordan v. Giblin, 12 Cal. 100.

11. A judgment rendered aginst a party who is absent from the State, upon
publication of the summons h-ty dais only, is void for the want of jurisdiction of the person of the defendant. «I.

§ -32. Action against  or more defendants.

Where the action is against two or more defendants, and
the summons is served on one or more, but not on all of them,
the plaintifff may proceed as follows :

lst. If the action be against the defendants jointly indebted upon a contract, he may proceed against the defendant served, unless the Court otherwise direct; and if he recover judgment, it may be entered against all the defendants
thus jointly indebted, so far only as that it may be enforced

against the joint property of all, and the separate property
of the defendant served; or,

2d. If the action be against defendants severally liable, he
may proceed against the defendants served in the same manner as if they were the only defendants.

ApplicabletoJ'ustices’Gourts,pos¢, $685; see alsot 368; N. Y. Code, 138
seepost, § 145, “Ju ents.”

1. When the shows in eral terms the appearance of parties, the
3  confined to parties served with process. Chester V.
, 1 . .

2. C. urchasedgoodsonhis individual account, and directed plaintiffto
charge e same to the joint account of C. and J. In an action by plaintifff:
Held. that although J. was not liable, judgment might be rendered against 0.
The common law rule is modified so far, at least, as to permit judgment against
a portion of the defendants whenever the contract purports on its face to be
the contract of all the parties sued. and it turns out in proof that a rtion
onl are liable. Lewis v. Clarlcin, 18 Cal. 399; Stearns v. Aguirre, 6 C 176in ‘ respect overruled; Chester v. Miller, 13 Cal. 558.

3. The provisions of the thirty-second section‘ of the Practice Act, which in
an action against two or more defendants all of whom are not served, authorizes
judgment to be entered to bind the joint property of all the defendants. does
not apply to actions for the foreclosure of mortgages on real estate. Bowen v.
Kay, 12 Cal. 348.

4. A personal judgment can not be given against a party not served with
process in an action on a joint obligation of several defendants. Treat v. NoChll cl: Brady, 10 Cal. 511.

5. Where in an action against defendants, jointly and not severally liable, a
portion of them onl are served with fprocess, the clerk cannot on the application
of laintld enter jn gment upon de ault against the parties served only. A
jucrgmentso entered is void. Kelly v. Van Austin at al., 17 Cal .564.

6. The proper course in such case is to enter judgment against all the defeudants, but so as to be enforced against the joint property of all and the
separate property of those served. Id.

7. Where the action is against defendants severally liable, a portion only
being served with, the clerk can on a plication of plaintifff enter judgment u on
default a inst the parties served wit out regard to the other parties name in
the comp aint. Id. [See Bond v. Pacheco, 30 Cal. 534 and case there cited.)

8. Where one of two defendants in a joint jud ent pays it, but not with the
intention of discharging it, he is entitled to use a judgment for his protection
and indemnity, and may enforce it a inst his co-defendant for his legal proportion of the debt. 00 ee v. Ilevis, 1 Cal. 239.

9. In an action aga tdefendants jointly indebted, where one onl is served,
Ensleveral judgment may be entered against them. Huchjield v. in, 6

. 607.

§33. Proof of service, how made.

Proof of the service of summons shall be as follows :

1st. If served by the sheriff or his deputy, the affidavit or
certificate of such sheriff or deputy; or,

2d. If by any other person, his affidavit thereof; or,

3d. In case of publication, the aiiidavit of the printer, or
his foreman, or principal clerk, showing the same; and an

3 cl

aiiidavit of a deposit of a copy of the summons in the postoiiice, if the same shall have been deposited ; or,

4th. The written admission of the defendant.
N. Y. Code, § 138. Bancroft’s Forms, No. 643; Abb. Forms, Nos. 132-142.

1. Parol proof of aervioe.—Service of summons may be proved by parol

evidence. Hahn v. Kelly, Oct. T. 1867.
2. A return disclosing a service upon “ the  agent” of a corporation
6 .

. is sutiicient. Dodge v. The Mariposa 00., Oct. T. 1

3. Return by the aherm'.—Where, in an action against an incorporated
company, the return of the sheriff showed that he had served the summons in the
action “ upon James Street, one of the proprietors of the company :” Held, that
it was not sufficient evidence of service to give the Court jurisdiction, it not ap»pearing that Street was president, or head of the corporation. or secretary,

¢E'ashil¢:r<(>;1'atlr1a:p4aging agent thereof. 0’Brien v. Shaw's Flat and Tuolumne Canal
0., 0 . 3.

4. Where the return of a sheriff states that he served defendants with a certitied copy of the complaint, it will be presumed that the co y was certitied by
the clerk, and not b some one else. Curtis v. Herrick, 14 (gal. 117.

5. Courts cannot ow an under officer, and the act and return on a summons
of a deputy sheriff is a nullity, unless done in the name and by the authority of
his principal. Joyce v. Joyce, 5 Cal. 449.

6. The return of a deputy sheriff, on a process served, is a nullity, unless
made in the name of the sheriff. Rowley v. Howard, 23 Cal. 401.

7. Return by any other person.—'l‘he atlldavit of service required by this
section must show that the person servin it was a white male citizen, over

twenty-one years of age, competent to test fy in the cause. and, that a certified
gopy of the complaint accompanied the summons. Mclllillan v. Reynold, 11
a .

378. See ante, 28.
8. An affidavit 0 service of summons which states the facts constituting

atilant a competent witness is sutilcient, without stating that he is competent.

Dimiclc v. Campbell, 31 Cal. 238.
9. The atiidavit of service of summons must show amrmatively, compliance

with all the requirements of the law. Jlcdlillan and Wife v. Reynolds, 11 Cal.

372.
10. Where an affidavit of service of summons fails to state any of the facts of

competency named in the statute, it is a mere irregularity, and the judgment
cannot be attacked collaterally on the ground of it. A return will give jurisdiction, even though it be false. Peclc v. Strauss, Oct. T., 1867.

11. Amdavit of printer, eto.—When service of summons is had by publication, proof of the publication can only be made by the affidavit of the printer,
his foreman or principal clerk ; and the atiidavit should state that the person

taking the same holds one of these positions. An affidavit commencin in this
way: “A. B., principal clerk, etc., being sworn, deposes,” etc., is insutiic ent. and
would not give the Court jurisdiction of the person of the defendant. Steinbaclc v. Leese, 27 Cal. 297.

12. Where an affidavit of publication of a summons was made b a publisher
and-proprietor, and not by the rinter, foreman or principal cler , it was held
sufficient, as being within the sp it of the statute. Sharp v. Daugney, Oct. T.,

1867.
13. Where there is but one clerk in the otilce of a ublic newspaper, his affidavit of the publication of summons. or notice, in sa (1 paper, is sutilcient, and
it is unnecessary for the atiidavit to describe him as principal clerk. Gray v.
Palmer, 9 Cal. 616.

14. If the atiidavit of the printer states that the summons was published one
month, and yet the Court in its judgment states that it was published three, or
that service had been had upon the defendant, it will be presumed that other
proof than that contained in the judgment roll was made. This recital imparts

absolute verity. Hahn v. Kelly, Oct. T., 1867.

I5. Amdavit of deposit in postomoe.-It is not necessary that an affidavit
of deposit of a copy of summons, etc., in the postoffice should state that the deposit was made by a white male citizen. The transaction at the postoillce may
be roved by any one. It is unnecessary to state that the deposit was made in
a nited States postotlicc, or that there was communication by mail between the

place of deposit and the place to which the packet was addressed. Sharp v.
16.

. Oct. '1‘., 1867.
failure to deposit in the postoffice a copy of the com laint and summons, diwcted to a minor. is not cured by the appearance 0 the mother in
her own behalf. Gray v. Palmer, 9 Cal. 616.

17. Written admission of defendant:.—Courts will take judicial notice of
the signatures of their officers, as such; but there is no rule which extends such

notice to the signatures of arties to a cause. When. thereforee, the roof of
service of process consists o the written admissions of defendants. sue admissions, to be available in the action, should be accompanied with some evidence
of the genuineness of the signatures of the parties. n the absence of such evidence, the Court cannot notice them. Alderson v. Bell and Wife, 9 Cal. 315.
18. An acknowledgment of service of summons is only suuicient when reduced
to writing and subscribed by the party. A verbal acknowledgment is not suficient. H v. Tutt, 11 Cal. 307.
19. The statute oes not require an admission of service to designate the

place where the service was made. The object of such designation, when required. is to determine the period within which the answer must be filed, or

when default may be taken. Alderson v. Bell and Wife, 9 Cal. 315.
20. Where defendant’s attorneys accepted service of summons, but attached

no date thereto. the date of the return by the sherid was held to be the true
date of the service. When the place where the writ is served is not stated, the
Court should assume that it was served witin the jurisdiction of the officer to

whom it was directed. Crane v. Brennan, 3 Cal. 194.

§ 34. Certificate or a_17‘idavz't of service, requisites of.

In case of service otherwise than by publication, the certificate or aiiidavit shall state the time and place of service.

N. Y. Code, § 138.

1. The only object of the designation of the place where process is served, is
to determine the period within which the answer must be filed, or when default

mazy be taken. Whitwell v. Barbie:-, 7 Cal. 62.
. Where the evidence of the place of service is insumcient to authorize a

judgment, advantage of it should be taken, either by appeal or on motion to
vacate the judgment. Pica v. Sunol, 6 Cal. 294.

§ 35. Jurisdiction, when Court shall have acquired.

From the time of the service of the summons and copy of
complaint in a civil action, the Court shall be deemed to have
acquired jurisdiction, and to have control of all the subsequent proceedings. A voluntary appearance of a defendant

shall be equivalent to personal service of the summons upon

him.

N. Y. Code, § 139. As to what constitutes an appearance, see past, § 523.

1. In order to ‘vs a Court jurisdiction of the subject matter, so as to enable it to issue 0 ers or process, there must be a suit instituted in the Court.
hpwk Cohen, 6 Cal. 318.

2. The first point decided by any Court is, that the Court has jurisdiction,
althow it may not be in terms. Clary v. Hoagland, 6 Cal. 685.

3. e object of a summons is to bring the party into Court. If that objectbeattainedbythea ceand pleadings ofthe party,he cannot
complain. Andrews 17. umne Hill 00., 7 Cal. 330.

4. Where a defendant was served with process, but was not given the time
allowed by statute to appear and answer, it would be a sumcient reason for
the Court to quash the writ on motion by an amicus curiae, or for extension
of the time on defendant's motion, or a good objection on writ of error, arrest of judgment or motion for a new trial; but it cannot be said that the

Court had no jurisdiction of the person, so as to render its judgmenta nullity.
Whitwell v. Barbier, 7 Cal. 62.

5. In actions in sonam in Courts other than Admiralty Courts, no man
can be deprived 0 his goperty without having been first personally cited to
appear and make his fense, unless by virtue of some positive statutory
enactment. Loring v. Illsley, 1 Cal. 29.

6. The authority of an attorney-at-law to appear for parties for whom he

enters an appearance in an action, will be jgresumed where nothing to the contrary appears. Hayes v. Shatiuclc, 21 Cal. 1.

7. In an action upon a judgment of a Court of general jurisdiction, the de‘ fendant cannot show, as a matter of defense at law, that the Court did not

acquirajurisdiction of the defendant, or that its 'urisdiction was fraudulently

ac uir exce t by examination of the record. arpentier v. The Oil of Oaklarcald, 30 Cal. 4 9. y

8. A party to an action may appear in his own person or by attorney, but
he cannot do both; and if he appears by attorney, he cannot assume the control of the case. Board of Commissioners v. Younger, 29 Cal. 147.

9. If the answer has the si ture of the attorney of record, and that of
an associate attorney attach to it, the Court will not strike it out. The
Court will not try the question, whether the signature of the attorney of

record was ut there by himself or by his associate without his authority.
Wilson v. lcaveland, 30 Cal. 192.

10. It is well settled that Courts will take judicial co%iizance of the signatnres of their odicers as such; but there is no rule whic extends such notice

to the signature of the parties to a cause. Hahn v. Kelley, Oct. T. 1867.

11. If an attorney ap for a defendant in a Court of general jurisdiction,
this appearance gives t e Court jurisdiction of the person of defendant; and
if the attorney appeared without authority, that fact cannot be shown, as a

g3fgi;lse4;t).law, in a suit upon the judgment. Carpentier v. City of Oakland,

12. If an attorney, who appears for a part onl of several defendants,
afterwards inadvertently files an answer for all, an , when he discovers his
mistake, obtains an order allowing him to withdraw his answer, and substitute a new one limited to the defendants for whom he intended to answer, the
Court will acquire jurisdiction only of those defendants for whom the attorney finally appears. Forbes v. Hyde, 31 Cal. 342.

13. A voluntary appearance by a defendant gives jurisdiction of his rson
without the issuance of any summons. This was ecpually the case un er the
Practice Act as it stood in 1855. Hayes v. Shattuclc, 1 Cal. 51.

14. If it does not appear amrmativeligpon the face of a record of a Court
of general jurisdiction that the Court jurisdiction of the defendant, that
fact will be presumed, unless the record shows amrmatively that no jurisdiction was acquired. Oaipcntier v. City of Oakland, 30 Cal. 489.

TITLE IV.

OF THE PLEADING8 IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

8Ic'nol 36. Form of p eadings.
Sumciency of loadings, how determined.

1

Pleadings on e part of plaintiff and defendant.
Complaint, what to contain.

When defendant may demur.

Demurrer must specify grounds of objection.
Demurrer and answer.

gilnended complaint, how med anlxlluslslerved.

° ‘on not appearing on comp ' t.

Obixon, when deemed waived.

Answer, what to contain.

Counter claim.

Cross demands.

Several defenses.

Demurrer to answer and sham and irrelevant defenses
Pleadings to be verined.

Pleadings, when not to be verined.

Co y of instrument, when deemed admitted as genuine

en deemed not admitted.

Pleadi , how and by whom verined.

Items 0 account. Bill of particulars.

Irrelevant and redundant matter.

In real actions, how to describe property.

Judgments, how to be leaded.

Conditions precedent, ow to be pleaded.

Private statutes, how to be pleaded.

Libel and slander, how stated in the complaint.
Answer in such cases.

What causes of action may be joined.

Allegation not denied, when to be deemed true.

What is a material allegation.

Amendments of course, and efect of demurrers.

Who may enlarge time to plead, correct mistakes, amend

and relieve from judgment in certain cases.

Fictitious name.

Pleadings. how construed.

No error or defect to be regarded, unless it afects the

substantial rights.

§ 36. Form of pleadings.

The pleadings are the formal allegations by the parties of
their respective claims and defenses, for the judgment of the
Court.

For intervention, see 5 659, etc.

§ 37. Sujiciency of pleadings, how determined.
All the forms of pleadings in civil actions, and the rules by

 $333333333333?v='$s‘5='$:3'$$5:"55s"7~!tf=5!3F$?33?‘

which the sufliciency of the pleadings shall be determined,
shall be those prescribed in this act.

Ante, §1;pos¢, $70; N. Y. Code, §140. ‘
1. Under our code of practice the same rules of pleadings govern in all
cases, both at law and in equity. Bowen v Aubrey, 22 Cal. 566.

§ 38. 1Pleadz'ngs on the part of plaintyf and defendant.

The pleadings on the part of the plaintifff shall be the complaint or demurrer to the defendant’s answer ; the pleadings
on the part of the defendant to the original complaint or cross
complaint of a co~defendant shall be the demurrer or answer.
When a defendant is entitled to relief as against the plaintifff
alone, or against the plaintill‘ and a co~defendant, he may
make a separate statement in his answer of the necessary
facts, with a prayer for the relief sought, instead of bringing

a distinct cross action. All pleadings subsequent to the _

original complaint shall be filed with the Clerk, and a copy
thereof served on the adverse party or his attorney, if the
adverse party or his attorney live within the county where
the action is pending; provided, that when the answer contains a cross complaint, the parties plaintifff or defendant, or
his or their attorney thereto, shall be served with a copy
thereof, and shall have the same time thereafter to plead
thereto that is allowed for pleading to the original complaint
after service of the summons.
1Amended Statute, 1855, 303; 1860, 298; 1863, 578; 1866, 701.

§ 39. Complaint, what to contain.

The complaint shall contain :

1st. The title of the action, specifying the name of the
Court, and the name of the county in which the action is
brought, and the name of the parties to the action, plaintiff
and defendant ; 2d. A statement of the facts constituting the cause of ac.
tion, in ordinary and concise language ;

3d. A demand of the relief which the plaintifff claims. If the
recovery of money, or damages, he demanded, the amount
thereof shall be stated.

N. Y. Code, § 142.
1. Subdivision I"'lrIt.—-Parties to a compla1nt.—Ses ante, M 1-17.

2. Place of t:rlaJ.—See ante, Qt 18-21.

3. Subdivision seoond.—Statement of facts constituting a cause of action: general rules.

4 The statute requiring the complaint to contain a statement of the facts
constituting a cause of action, in ordinary and concise language, is only doclaratory o the common law. Godwin v. Stebbins, 2 Cal. 1 3.

5. The Practice Act has abolished all distinctions in the form of actions,
and requires only a simple statement of the facts constituting the cause of
aeéon or defense. Piercy v. Sabin, 10 Cal. 27.

6. It governs all cases of pleading, legal and eguitable, by the same rules—evidence included. Goodwin v. Hammond, 13 al. 169; Riddle v. Balcer,
Id. 382; Payne v. Tl-eadwell, 16 Id. 243.

7. Bquity.—The old rules of chancery pleading are superseded by the
Practice Act. Cordier v. Schloss, 12 Cal. 14 .

8. It is a cardinal rule in equity, as in allother pleading, that the allegata
and probate must agree, and averments material to the case omitted from the
 cannot be supplied by the evidence. Green v. Covillaud, 10 Cal.

9. Where the complaint, in an action of trespass, asks also for the equitable interposition of the Court, if the law and e uity are inseparably mixed
r, it would be demurrable. Gates v. Kie , 7 Cal. 124.
0. But it is not necessary that there shoul be express words, showitég
where the declaration in trespass leaves of and the bill in equity begins. I

IL It makes no distinction between the rules of pleading applicable to
natural persons, and those applicable to artificial persons. San Francisco
Gas Co. v. City of San Francisco, 9 Cal. 467. '

12. The word “person,” inits legal signification, is a generic term, and
was intended to include artincial as well as natural. Douglass v. Pacific M. 8.
8. 00., 4 Cal. 304.

13. Under our practice, whichever ground of recovery the pleader ado ts,
his complaint must contain the same allegations of fact as were require at
common law. Miller v. Van Tassel, 24 Cal. 463.

14. Material averment, teat o£—See post, t 66.
15. Facts alone must be stated.-Facts only must be stated This means

the facts as contradistinguished from the law, from argument, from hypothgas, and from the evidence of the facts. Green v. Palmer, 15 Cal. 413; 1 Cal.
16. T1115 facts must be carefully distinguished from the evidence of the
17.. A pleader must insert in his pleading: nrst, whatever he is to prove’ 
second, he must insert no amrmative allegation which he is not to prove; and
third, that what he does insert must be decisive of some part of the cause one

wafv or the other. Id. .
8. All statements must be concisely made, and, when once made, must not

be repeated. Id.
19. An occurrence should be set forth in its logcal, that is, in its natural

order. Id.

20. Only such facts as are to be proved should be stated.—’l‘hose
dfnéts, and ttllilose orlily, rplustfbe stateclll which constitnute the cautse of eigtilcinfi the
enseor erepy; t ereore, c art ust ege ery actw ‘c eis
required to prgve, and will be  f%B rovinguay fact not allegeevd;
Green v. Palmer, 15 Cal. 413; Racouillat v. Rene, 2 Cal. 455; Willson v. 0
land, 30 Cal. 192.

21. Only such facts need be alleged as are required to be proved, exce t to
negative a possible performance of the obligation which is the basis 0 the
action, or to negative an inference from an act which is, in itself, indiiferent.
Payne v. Trcadwell, 16 Cal. 220.

22. Every fact which, if controverted, plaintifff must rove to maintain his 1
action, must be stated in the com laint. Jerome v. Stab 'ns, 14 Cal. 457.

28. It was the intention of the ode to require the pleadings to be so framed

A u
76.

as not on] to a risethepartiesof thefactstobe proved themrespect-~
ivel , but ti)  the roofs on the trial. Pier v. Sabin,bly0 Cal. 22.

21 He must allege not 'ng amrmatively which e is not required to prove.
Green v. Palmer, 15 Cal. 413. It must be recollected that every hct essential
to the claim of defense should be stated. If this part of the rule be violated,
the adverse madv demur. Id.

25. Nothing oul be stated which is not essential to the claim or defense,
or, in other words, that none but issuable facts should be stated. If this part a
of the rule be violated, the adverse party may move to strike out the

sential arts. Id.
26. e title of the plaintii is the ultimate fact, the fact in issue, upon

which a recovery must be had in e'ectinent. The facts established b the
plaintim goi to support his alle title, are probative facts, which, ' disted by thengefendant, are facts in controversy. Marshall v. Shaffer, 32 Cal.

27. In leading, it is the ultimate and not the probative facts which should
be averres; and it is error in the Court to exclude evidence ofered to establish
the robative facts, although they are not averred in the complaint. Gnewell
v. alden, 23 Cal. 165; Miles v. McDe1-molt, 31 Cal. 271.

28. Each part; must allege every fact which he is required to prove, and
will be preclude from proving any fact not alleged; and must allege nothing
ailirmatively which he is not required to prove. Negative allegations, however, are frequently necessary, though they are not to be proved. Green v.
Palmer, 15 Cal. 411.

29. Negative allegations frequently neoessai-y.—NeEtive allegations,
however, are f uently necessary, though they are not to proved. Green
v. Palmer, 15 C . 411. '

30. Onlysuchfactsneedbeall asarerequiredtobeproved,ex to
negative a possible performance 0 the obligation, which is the basis 0 the
action, or to negative an inference from an act which is in itself indiderent.
Pasyne v. Treadwell, 16 Cal. 220.

1. Facts, how stated.--Facts must be stated in unequivocal language,
and not left to inference. Moore v. Besse, 30 Cal. 670.

32. A complaint should allege a material fact by direct averment, and not

by inference. Stringer v. Davis, 30 Cal. 318.

83. All atlons by way of recital, are improper. Shafer v. Bear River, 4
Cal. 294. ver v. Burton, 28 Cal. 549. Stringer v. Davis, 30 Cal. 318.
34. What oughtagto be stated.

4135. A legal inference or conclusion from the facts. Green v. Palmer, 16 Cal.

36. Argument in a leading‘ . Id.

37. Ilizpothetical stgtements. Id.

38. e defendant's pretenses. Id.

39. A discharge in insolvency. Smith v. Richmond, 19 Cal. 476.

40. A new promise. Id.

41. The former is a matter of defense, to be set u by the defendant; and
the latter is a matter of replication, either by way of) plea or evidence, as the
system of pleading ma be. Id.

42. Conclusions of w are iniproper.—-The facts from which the conclusion is to be drawn must be stated, not the conclusion of law. Levimoa
v. Schwartz, 22 Cal. 229.
w:l3.1é‘gVaiio ul or unlawful " conclusions of law. Payned: Deweyv. Tread44. An allegation that the plaintiff is the “ owner and holder of a note is a
XOl1l:l.l11'1I‘i0i1 8% law. Wedderspoon v. B09813. 32 Cal. 669; Poorman v. Mills,

p ., .

45. An allegation that a certain amount is due upon a note is a conclusion
of41:w'.rhFrischv. (later, 21 “gal. 71.

. epromiseto , eedinthscommon Courtinassum ‘t isa
conclusion of law. lglzins v.gS ' , 22 Cal. 232. pm '

47. An allegation in an answer, t certain goods were sold on a credit

whichhad notexpii-ed,isaconclusionoflaw. Levinsonv. Shwartz, 22 Cal.
219

18. An answer which avers “ that any right that plaintiffs may have ever
had to the possession,” etc, they forfeited by a non—compliance with the
rules, customs and regulations of the miners of the diggings embracing the
claims in dispute, prior to the defendant's entry, 18 the averment of a
lepl eonelum'on. DutehFlat 00. ?. Mooney, 12 Cal. 534.

49. Toaverthata “locationwas duly and properly made, according to the
gins-isiaaeof aaaet," is insumeient; the conditionsof the act, and the genformuiee thereof, mustbe specially averred. People v. Jaclwonet al., 24 al.
%t

50. An averment in a complaint, that an Ayuntamiento had full power and
lawful authority to do a parucular act, is an averment of a conclusion of
law,anddoesnottender an issue offact. Branhamstal. v.Mayo1-and
Common Council of San Jose et aIs., 24 Cal. 602.

51. Facts anticipating a defense ought no; to be statedi—-The only
object to be gained y a laintih’ in anticipating a efense, and rep ying to it in
advance, is to put the adgerse party upon his oath without making him a witness, and the eifect of allo this would be to establish a system of discovery
in coniiict with the spirit of e statute. Chnjield v. Tobias, 21 Cal. 349.

52. Eidenoe should not be alleged in a oomplaint.——Racouilla¢ v. Ram,
38 Cal. 450; v. Williams, 26 Cal. 313. Probative facts should not be

alleged. H v.8ha .32Cal. 176;Geewellv.Walderc,23CaL 165;
Hilts v. ]{cDe:-mott, 31 C 271.

53. 8urpiIIu¢e.—“Duly,” "wrongfully," and “nnlawfully," when surPhase

54. lus words in pleading. The words “duly,’_’ “wrongfully," and
“ unlaswgfly,” when used in connection with issuable facts, while they do not
viiatea ' ,aresurplusage,and hadbetterbeomitted. Milesv.McR-Iuott, 31 Cal. 1; lhlleclc v. Miner, 16 Cal. 574. Seepost, M 50, 57.

55. Tender, Averment of.——Where a party contracts for a quantity of
wheat, to be delivered on demand, and paid for on delivery, in an action for
non-delivery, it is unnecessary for plaintid to ever and prove a tender of the

gelggse money at the time of demand or before suit. Crosby v. Watkins, 12

56. Demand aveunem: of.-—A complaint, alleging that the defendant sold
to plaintifff's a certain share of fruit win in an orchard, and after the sale
executed a guaranty that the share 0 plain ill; should be at their disposal, and
further alleging a demand for the same and the reiiisal of the defendant to
deliver, is demurrable, as it should have contained an assi ment of the breach
of the contract or guaranty. Dabovich v. Emeric, 7 Cal. 9.

57. The true point at issue is, whether the defendant undertook to deliver.
From the nature of the sale it operated as a delivery. There was no necessity
of a demand on defendant, unless for the purpose of enabling him to comply
with his guaranty. Id.

58. In an action to compel defendant to execute a deed of real estate held by
him, the complaint alleged that the property was purchased by plaintifff of one
C., and by agreement with -defendant was conve ed directly to him as security
for a debt, he to make a deed to plaintifff upon ts payment, and that the debt
was subsequently paid and the deed demanded; but the complaint failed to
ever that defendant u n the demand, or at any other time, has refused to
execute the deed: H , that the failure to aver refusal is fatal to the action, and
may be taken advantage of on the ground that the complaint does not state

facts snmcient to constitute a cause of action. Dodge v. Clark, 17 Cal. 586.
See post, No. 86. ,

59. Breach. how stated.—A complaint for breach of a contract must state a
breach in unequivocal language. Moore v. Besse, 30 Cal. 570.

60. Defective allegation; where oured.— Vida verdict § 174, No. 26; dehul§ 150, No. 27.

61. Records and papers. how made a part of a pleading.—Records and
papers cannot be made a part of a pleading by merely referring to them, and

praying that they may be taken as a part of such pleading, without annexing
the originals or copies as exhibits, or incorporating them with the answer, so as
to form a part of the record in the cause. People v. De la Guerra, 24 Cal. 78. '
62. In an action of foreclosure, where the complaint has a copy of the mortgage annexed, and to which it refers, a correct description of the land in the
mortgage is suiiicient for the purpose of the suit. Emeric v. James, 6 Cal. 155.

63. When pleadings may be read to the jury.—Though a pleading is not
strictly proof for the party making it, still a complaint may be read to the jury
to show what allegations are not denied, and hence admitted. Gav;/‘ield v. Knight 3

Ferry at Water 00., 14 Cal. 35.
64. Defendant can protect himself against any improper effect of this, by asking of the Court directions, limiting the eifect to a particular purpose. Id.

al£5§ Complaint, sumcienoy o£—See further, § 40, note to sixth subdivision,
‘ 64.
66. Verincat:ion.—See post, § 51, 52, 55.

67. Supplemental oompla:|nt.—Where a simple contract creditor filed a bill
against the assignee of his debtor, not attacking the assignment and merely
praying for a distribution; and the plaintifff subsequently filed a supplemental

ill, settin forth that in the meantime he had become a judgment creditor, and
attacking e assignment for iraud, since discovered, and praying that it be set
aside, and that the monies in the hands of the assignee be appro riated to
plaintifff's judgment: Held, that it is no objection to the supplements bill, that
it prays for a different relief, and fails to bring in all the other creditors, who
are alleged by the defense to be entitled to a rateable distribution. Baker v.

Bartel. 6 Cal. 483.
68. The gravamen of both bills is the indebtedness, and every supplemental bill is enlarged or altered b every additional and rtinent fact, and the
Sines‘ has the ri ht to a the assignment for rand discovered since
' g his original ' . Id.
Supplemental complaint. See 9 67, post; also § 68, No. 89; also 9 7, No. 13.

69. Cross oomplaint.—See 9 46, post, No. 178.

70. Written 1nstrument—when deemed admitted. see past, t 53.
71. Items of aooounb—Not necessary to be set forth, see past, 6 56.
72. Real actions. land, how desoribed.—See post, 6 58.

73. Judgments. how pleaded, see past, 9 59.

74. Conditions precedent, how pleaded, see past, 6 60.

75. Private statutes. howpleaded, seepost, t 61.

76. Libel and slander, how pleaded.—See post, t 62.

77. Joander of causes of aot1on.—8ee post, 664.

78. Allegations not denied deemed true.——Seepost, 6 65.

79. Material allegation. what is.—See post, 6 66.

80. Complaint may be amended.—See post, 6 67.

81. Fictitious name.—See post, § 69.

82. Pleading, how oonstrued.—-See post, 9 70.

83. Errors and defects to be disregarded. when.—See post, Q 71.

84.Deoisionsandrules,appl1oabletopart:iular b tsand .
sons, oausesorformsofaotlon, viz: O m be P"

35. Aooount.—'I‘he complaint in this case alleging that plaintiff and defendant are members of a joint stock company, known as the “ Miner's

Ditch Company ;" that defendants exclude plaintiff from partici tion in the
business or benefit from it ; that they have received large sumso mone from
the same, and refuse toaecount or pay him anything, etc., entitles p ' tit‘
toarelief adecreeamrminghisintc-reat,anddirectinganaccount. Smith
v. Fhgan, 1 Cal. 178.

86. In an action against an agent for not accounting, etc., a request to account and gy over must be alleged in the complaint, and proved at the trial.
htslmcll v cCauley, 7 Cal. 421.

87. A complaint in an action for an accoun ' , touching the afairs, rents
and proceeds of a water ditch, and for a sale of e property and a division
of the which first ave.s in general terms a copartnershi between
plain ' and defendants in the ditch, without averring any partne ‘p agreement, and then states that plaintifff acquired his interest in the ditch by the
purchase of an undivided interest from other persons than defendants, does
not state facts sumcient to constitute a cause of action, either for a dissolution and settlement of the affairs of a partnership, or for a partition. Bradlsydal. v. (}arlcncss,26Cal. 69. ‘

88. Account, items o£—Need not be set forth. See post, 9 56.

89. An'at.—To authorize an arrest of the defendant upon execution issued upon a judgment recovered in an action upon contract, the fraud for
which the arrest is sought must be alleged in the complaint, and be passed
mn by the jury, and be stated in the judgment. Davis v. Robinson, 10 Cal.

90. When the circumstances authorizing an arrest occur subsequently to
the ' of the complaint, application should be made to the Court either to
amend orignal or to file a supplemental complaint, so as to set forth the
facts upon w ‘ch execution against the person of the defendant will be
uked in the enforcement of the jpdgment sought. Id.

91. A complaint alleging that t e efendant collected and received certain
money as the cut or attorney in fact of the plaintiff, and had embezzled
and converted e money to his own use, and praying that he be adjudged
guilty of a fraud, and for judgment and execution against his person and

petty, is insumcient in this disjunctive form to sustain a verdict convictthe defendant of fraud. Porter v. Hermann, 8 Cal. 623.
. The complaint should state the facts that constitute the ndnciary
character, as well as its nature and extent. Id.

93. It is necessary in such a case to charge, not only that defendant received the mone as agent, but that he converted it in the course of his employmentas suc . Id.

94. Where the character or capacity in which a party is alleged to have
acted is essential to the charge of fraud, that character or capacity must be
averred in direct and positive terms, or the charge must fall. Id.

95. Where the complaint was not filed until two days after an order of arrest had issued thereupon: Held, that the order of arrest was void. Ea: parts
(blues, 6 Cal. 318.

96. Common oounts.-The common counts cannot be united in one count
as one cause of action, without any specification of the sums due upon each
several cause. Buckingham v. Waters, 14 Cal. 146.

97. The promise to pay alleged in the common Court in assumpsit, was a
mere conclusion of law from the facts stated, and need not be averred under

the new code, which requires only the facts to be stated. Wilkins v. Sledge:-,

22 Cal. 232.

98. After an admission of the indebtedness charged in a complaint in assumpsit, a denial of the alle promise to pay is immaterial. From the indebtuea admitted the law imp tea a promise to pay, and the denial of an ex ress
promise raises no issue that requires proof on the part of the plainti .
son v. Schwartz, 22 Cal. 229.

99. A count in a complaint in the old form of assumpsit for money had and
received, in which the pzomise is laid of a day more than two years rior to
the commenc ment of the action, is demurrable on the ground that ta-hows
dthidenn .nd to be barred by the Statute of Limitations. Keller v. Hicks, 22

457.

100. Goods sold and delivered.—'1‘he failure to state the amounts due,
severally, for goods and for money, would be fatal, just as such an averment
is iusumcient in an ordinary complaint. Grrdier v. Schloss, 18 Cal. 576.

101. A count, in the ordinary form of counts in indebitatus assumpsit, for goods
sold and delivered, and money aid and expended, is suiilcient, under our system of practice. If the allegat ons are’ deemed too general, the defendant can

ply for and obtain an order upon the plaintin‘ to furnish a bill of particulars.

reebom v. Glaser, 10 Cal. 337.

102. A declaration is insumcient which alleges an indebtedness and sets forth
an account, but does not all the sale or delivery of the articles to the defendant, nor show in what p ace or what manner the indebtedness accrued,
wléet1her' in account of the defendant or that of another. Mershon v. Randdl,
4 a . 32 .

103. A declaration setting forth that plaintifff had purchased a quantity of
goods from W. & P., “ then and there acting as the nts of defendant,” is only
another form of declaring that he had purchased cm the defendant, and is
snlilciently certain to prevent any misa prehension of its meaning, and is good
on demurrer. Cochran v. Goodman, 3 al. 244.

104. A complaint for goods sold, which avers that the defendant is indebted to the plaintifff in a certain sum for ods sold and delivered to him at
his request, and that defendant has not psi for the same, states a cause of
action. Abadie v. Carrillo, 32 Cal. 112.

105. Money had and received.—A count in a complaint for mone had
Reina v. (gross,

and received, which does not allege a demand, is demun-able.

6 Cal. 29; Id. 68.

106. An action for money had and received to the use of laintid lies,
whenever the defendant has in his hands money of plaintifffs w ‘ch in equity
and conscience he has no right to retain; and this, whether there be or not
an contract or privity between the parties. K rout: v. Livingston, 15 Cal. 344.

07. A count 111 a com laint in the old form of assumgslsit, for» money had
and received, in which the romise is laid of a day more an two years prior
to the commencement of e action, is demurrable on the ground that it
shows the demand to be barred by the Statute of Limitations. Keller v.
Hiclcs, 22 Cal. 457.

108. Money loaned.—The declaration was for money loaned, and set out
a draft drawn by defendants on a house in Boston, which it avers was drawn
with the understanding that plaintifff should a the same, but did not aver
that after fa 'ng the draft, he canceled it, and delivered it up to the defend lgelcal 33th the defects were fatal in this form of action. Lambert v.

109. Money paid. laid out and expended.--A complaint, stating that
whereas said defendant was justly indebted to plaintiffs in the sum of three
thousand dollars, for money paid, laid out and expended for the use and
benedt of said defendant, and at his ‘a! instance and request, to wit: at,
etc, and on the drstday of April, 1 , and in the sum of three thousand
dollars, for money found to be due from the defendant to plaintids on an
account then stated between them, and the said defendant being so indebted
to the ' tits, afterwards, to wit: on the day and year aforesaid, at the
place oresaid, undertook and faithfully promised the plaintifffs to pay the
same, ete., and that said sum is due and unpaid, sumciently states a cause of
action. DeWilt v. Porter, 13 Cal. 171.

109. Work and labor done, services rendered.—A com laint which

avers substantially that the defendant was at a certain time, in ebted to the

‘ tid‘ in a certain sum for fessional services rendered at the special

cc and request of the efendant, is sumcient without sta ' in terms

the value of the services, or that the defendant promised to pay. tllcins v.
Stidger, 22 Cal. 232. See post, No. 118.

110. Connnon carrier, complaint against.—In an action to reccl:vertd‘animagesagainstacommoncarrierofpasse forarefusaltocarrypain‘ , t
isnotneoessarytoallegeatenderof efare. Itissumcienttoallegsthat

phintit! was ready and willing to y the defendant such sum of money as it
;asl§l.|y entitled to charge. gbell v. The Central Pacijic R. R. 00., Jan.

111. Conditions precedent, how alleged. See post, 9 60.

112. Conspiracy.—Where two or more persons are sued for a joint wrong
done, it may be necessary to prove a previous combination between them in
order to secure a joint recovery; but it is not necessary to aver this previous
combination in the com laint, and, if averred, it is not to be considered as of
the gist of the action. 39. Herron v. Hughes et al., 25 Cal. 560.

113. Contraot.——A complaint which states the facts of the case in o
and concise e is not demurrable, because such statement shows that

Que plaintifff is enti ed to recover upon two diferentl ounds. M ills v.
Barney, 22 Cal. 240. egg] 8!

114. A complaint on a contract in which the defendant agrees to purchase a
given quantity of hay, then in a stack, from the plaintih‘, and ay a fixed sum
therefore at a fixed time, and the hay to be weighed at the stac , should aver,
if the hay has not all been delivered, a readiness or ofer on the part of the
plaintil to deliver it. Barron v. Frenclc. 30 Cal. 486.

115. Inanaction torecoverdamages for breach of a contract, it is sumcient, so far as a demurrer is concerned, to aver in the complaint the contract,
the mach complained of, and general damages. Barber v. Chzalis, 30 Cal. 92.

116. Contract may be set forth in has verba.—A written contract may
be declared on according to its legal effect, or it may be set forth in hwc verba.
If declared on according to its legal effect, the defendant may, by the rule of
the common law in a proper case, crave oyer of the instrument; and if it
appears that its provisions have been misstated, he may set out the contract
in lane verbs, and demur on the ground of the variance. Stoddard v.
Treadtoen, 26 Cal. .300. .

117. In suit upon an agreement under seal, the complaint setting out the
garment in hwc verba need not aver any consideration for the agreement.

seal imparts a consideration. Wills v. Kempt, 17 Cal. 98; McCarty v.
Beach, 10 Id. 461.

118. Contract, builders.—Under the rules of pleading established by the
Code, the to a written contract for the erection of a building, who has
performed ' part of it bythe erection of the same, can bring an action
against the other party who has failed to mm, for work and labor done and
performed; but the com laint must aver the execution of the contract, its
terms, the performance 0 the same on the part of the plaintifff, and the nonperformance by the other party, and the damages thereby sustained. If, by
thetermsof thecontract, thegartywhohasfailedtofulnlwastoexecutehxa
note for the money due, ya la at a future day, his failure to do so should
beaver:-ed,forthe ofactionagainsthimishisfailuretoexecutethe
note. 0'(.bnnor v. gzngley, 26 Cal. 17.

119. In such case, if there has been any variation from the terms of the
written contract in the progress of the work, by consent of the parties, that
fact should also be averted, and the performance of the contract as varied. Id.

120. The complaint contained three counts: The nrst, on a special contract for the erection of a warehouse; the second, for extra work on the building; and the third, for work and labor done, and materials furnished in it
erection. The answer denied the allegations of the first two counts, but
failed to deny the allegations of the third. Kallcman v. Baylis, 23 Cal. 303.

121. Contract, action to reform.-—Where in reducing an agreement to
writing, a material clause has been omitted by mistake, a party seeki to
avail himself of the actual contract must obtain a reformation of the wri ng.
either by a distinct proceeding to reform it, or by specially pleading the mistake in the action in which the contract is sought to be used, and asking its
correction as independent relief. Under a pleading which simply states the
terms of a contract, the introduction of a written agreement respectin the
subject matter, cannot be followed by oral proof of a material clause eged

tgdhalvg been omitted by mistake ii-om the writing. ,Pierson v. ‘M'cC'ahi_ll, 91

122. Contract, assignment how ai1eged.—Where a party sets up in his
leading: an assignment to him of a contract made with another, he must algge apositive transfer, and the character of it. Steame v.r.l{artin, 4 Cal; 227.

‘ 123. Condition precedent.——Whén'the. declaration states a condition precedent. and fails to aver performance, the defect must ‘be taken advan e of
by demurrer in the Court below. -  v.‘ Stout, 2 Cal. 460, -seepost,  .'

124. Contract, tort,’ when may be waived.—When personal property is
tortiously taken, the party aggrieved ma «waive the tort and sue inassumpsit
for the value of the property. A Fr-attv. -larlc,\12 Cal. 89.? ~ ~ v ‘A

125. Where- the breac of a contract is awrong, the ' may sue in tort,
instead of suing u on the contract. Sheldon v. Steamer -‘rwle Sam,‘18 Cal.'626.

126. A plaintifff a right to waive a tort, as against factors, and to bring
his action to compel them to account, and for thenet  arising from
thesales. Lubertv.0hauviteau,3Cal.458.f ~  i-i ~ « -~
A 127. Under the forms of  at common law,‘ the vendor of chattels,
sold with a warranty of title, could, on a breach of the warranty, recover
dam esinassumpsit, orhemightsueinanactiononthecasefor deceit, if
there ad been deceit, as weilas a warranty oftitle; but, in the that case, he
must avers iall that the-defendantwarnnted histitla to-the property, and
thatabreac of gewarran hadoccurred; andin the latter, that the defendant falsely or fraudulen  presented himself to be the owner ‘ of ‘the
an

props , and that he knew representations were false. Miller v.
aesel Cal. 463. e , ‘

- 128. Corporations. actions by.—The allegation that  is acorporation under the-‘laws of ‘-the State, is sumcientto: estab ' -the ‘legal capacity
to sue. Galiforma Steam Nov. 00. v. Wright, 6 Cal. 368. . i 1 - 
129. A note.~was executed by the defendast,.payabie to “the Board of
Trustees of the Sonoma Academy or their successors‘ in oiiice,” and specihed
that “ no change in thename, character, or- management of the said academy ”
should sheet the liability of the payor. The complaint of the “ Cumberland
College ” stated that theiplaintiii‘ was a corporation, and the same institution of
learning formerly known as, the “ Sonoma Academy,” V that the academy was,
after its establishment, changed. to “Cumberland College,” and that the note
was the propert , of the plaintim Held,-that this complaint showed a good
cause of action _n the plaintin’. and tliat”a.demurrer to it was improperly

' sustained. Cumberland aozzegev. In, 22 on 64;.

130. Corporations, actions against.—In' suit against a municipal corporation on its bonds, the complaint’ sets out the bonds "avers-the defendant tohe
a corporation; that~the corporation made and delivered  bonds on good
consideration, under an ordinance the p r1 agents of- the corpora»
tion. having authority for that purpose, that do endant has failed to pay:
Held, that the complaint shows pv-mew facie a liability onrthepert of the corporation; and that it was not necessary to set out" the ordinance, nor theivote,
orother proceedingsof the corporate nts,Jor give an Jurther description‘ of

- the agents of the corporation. Under an Trustees ‘ 'tke‘ ‘oityqf-Sonora, 17
. . ' - A ; 3 e I ,

051,172, a  . -,  . ..
131. The allegation that plaintia is a corporation under the laws of the State,

a \ -ia,sntiicicnt to eetablidi the legal capacity tcsue. ‘0al.~'8team Nae.‘ Go.-~'v.

'WFight,6Cal.258. i e u — - « . » -  
.132. A complaint in an action brought by a J_usti_ce of the Beace against a
coun for services rendered as Justice for. the: county, which merely alleges

’ that iaintiii‘, as Justice of the Peace, performed services at the request of

the Dis ct Attorney for the county, in- cases wherein the Pee le of the State

"were plaintiiih to.the amountof three thousandgtwc hundred dol rs, ‘f and that
the defendant thereby became and is liable to ay the said sum,” does not state

facts sumcient to constitute a causelof action. mar v. Solapio  26 Cal. 1-16.
133. A; complaint in an action against a county for damages sustained by the

location of a public highway over plaintin"s land, laid out under the Act of ’

1sn,sIts*to‘s‘tn1efs"ésns3: ar;s?suon,'an1sss it°a‘vers thst ‘the pinmm had it.
 to come to an agreement with the Board of Supervisors as to the
 of damages sustained, ‘and could not agree withthq Board asjto such
‘amount.  v.'C'olusa County, 28 Cal. 662. ‘See note (2) to ’§ 22, cuts.

. 134. Co-t:enants.—In an action by _a tenant in common against his co.-tenant,
jho is in thesole possession oi‘th_epremises, to recover ashareof the protitsaof
the estate, a complaint which-avers a tenaacyin common between» the parties;
the sole and exclusive possession of the. premises b the defendant; the receipt
by him of the rents. issuesand profits thereof ; a emand. by the plaintifff of an
account of the same, and the payment of his share; the defendant’s refusal; and
that the rents. issues and profits amount to $84,000, is insutilcient to support
the action. Pioo v. Columbet, 12 Cal. 414. _ a

135. In such complaint there are no" ecial circumstances alle ed which
withdraw the case from the ordinary reme ice at law, and require, t interposition of uity. The action is a common law action_of account; and, viewed
in this  the complaintis fatally detective, in not averring that the defendant
.occ1i led the premises upon any agreement with the pia1ntiii',.as receiver or

cf his share of the rents and proiits. It is essential to a recovery that this
drctimtance exist, and equally essential to the complaint that it be alleged. Id

W136. County,'suit againsl'.—-The right to sue a county is not iimitedto
 of tort. malfeasance etc.; but is given in every case of, account after
presentation, to, and rejection by, the Board of Supervisors. , The complaint
nut aver such presentment. ,Price at al. v. Thc.C'aunty of Sacramcmto, 6,Cal.
164; andin actions against a county the compiaint_must show that the claim
has been lirst presented to the Board of Supervisors, and .beeu,_by them rejected.
Hcdann v. Sierra County, 7 Cal. 123? See note (2) to § 22, ante. '

. 137. Damages, allegation o£—When treble damages are given by a statute,
Q8 demand for such damages must be expressly inserted inthe declaration,
which must either recite the statute or conclude to the damage of the plaintlf
against the form of the statute. Ghipman stat. v. Ems:-ic,: 5 Cal. 239. .

138. If the plaintii. in an action to recover? possession of a mare, and damsges_for her detention, claims damages because the animal has lost dash in
consequence of having been kept upon shortpasturage, and because shexwas
detained -1:.1ri1y_; tilv l-.n-1.-a-ling season, these facts must be specially averred ‘as
$8’ In] wt‘ cl.-z:1::1-gm. Stevenson V. Sniith, 28 031. I02. 1 _ A jz1r_\' |.'ii.ii11{Il. ;_1i'~.'«'2 compensation for,loss ‘of time, remuneration for
wqes paid, etc., unless there 15 an allegation in the complaint as to these
matters. Dabovich J: 00. v. Emerio, 12 Cal. 171.

140. A complaint which alleges that the plaintifffs were, on a certain day,
due owners and rietors of a certain valuable water ditch for the m-‘pose
 d «£3? afterwards, on the 88.136 daE and year, at, etc., a oresaid,
"V  _ enda_nt’s ditch was so badly an‘, neg 'gentl constructed and manfsged,‘and the water therein so 11 ligently and careless, y attended to, that said
ditch broke and gave waggand. ‘ e water therein dowed over and upon the
_..-_g... p( ‘  greatly gmaging and injuring the same,_and eanzin down
, t  J  great uantities of rock, stone,‘ earth andru bisgi, and
' 0 ,_ laintif s ditc , and de riving them of the use and rotlt ofthe

 
   
  
    
    
 

,'   "a  to’sai‘d plainti‘ 'sdan'1age of $3000 and. ,ere‘of they
. - -'-c,‘ lfosggcifnt. Tuoturime county Wam do.v.6ozu1’nzna and Stanislaus
141. ‘an  or damages ‘for breaking defendants’ dam and, flooding.
—- - v   c.1a-irn. wh.er.e,thecomR1s1nt=is,i;1.0. e,coust..end charges
l = ts’ kaid reservoir, hireason of some efect in its construc‘fir urn 1Sui'pose_ for w nch itwas constructed, or ‘carelessness

  

I“. entdn the partaof the said defendants, broke _away,’”etc.:
- 3 0 optima is sumcient. Haj man 'v. Tuoiumiw County 

  

ch, negligence arose from the want of care in constructing
A  a _   in letting of_ the water, is not sumciently material,
. .~  . ‘of res  to require separate ‘counts. Id. 4 . 4 _. I

143. In an‘ action {mama ‘to recover damages bythe owners of a licensed

ferry against a alleged tohaverunaferry within the limits prohibited
by law, it was held t the complaint should have alleged that defendant run
his ferry for a fee or reward, or the romise or tation of it, or that he
runitforotherthanhisown perso use orthato hisfamil , andthatthe
omission of these allegations was fatal. Hanson v. Webb, 3 C . 236.

144. In an action against a sheriff for special damages. resulting from a refusal on the part of the sheriff to make and deliver to plaintifff a deed to certain
premises urchased by plaintiff at sheriffs sale. when there is no allegation in
the com aint of title. nor any averment that, in case the deed had been executed, p aintid‘ would have been able to recover possession of the premises. or
the rents and profits: Held, that such complaint is insunicient. Knight v. Fair,
Sheri j, 12 Cal. 296.

145. Divorce.—The charge of adultery should be stated with reasonable
certainty as to time and place, so as to enable the defendant to prepare to meet
it on the trial. Conant v. Conant, 10 Cal. 249.

146. Where, in a suit for divorce brought b the wife, she charged in her complaint that adultery had been committed by er husband whilst she was living
with him “ at the city of San Francisco, at divers times, with persons to the
plaintifff unknown -” and adultery committed since she ceased to live with him
“ at the said city of San Francisco, with divers other persons, whose names are
to the plaintid unknown :” Held, that the complaint was demurrable, but that
the defendant, by failing to demur. waived the objection so far as the want of
specitication of the acts constitutin the charge is concerned. Id.

147. The charge of adultery sbou d be stated with reasonable certainty as to
time and place, so to enable the defendant to prepare to meet it on the trial.
Conant v. Conant. Id.

148. The doctrine of recrimination, or com ' criminis, applicable in
suits for divorce, and the several offenses w ich, by the statute, constitute
grounds of divorce, are pleadable in bar to such suits, the one to the other,
within the principle of the doctrine. Id.

149. The plaintifff must aver and prove-—though not denied——-that he or she
has been a bona jide resident of this State six months before making the application for a divorce. Bennett v. Bennett, 28 Cal. 599.

150. The averment of marrriage, if not denied, need not be proven. Foo: v.
Four, 25 Cal. 587.

151. It must afiirmatively appear in the complaint that the husband was the
owner of property sumcient to provide for the necessaries of life, and ne lected
so to do, where the application is made on the ground of the wiliiil neg ect of
the husband, for the eriod of three years, to provide the common necessaries
8t;llife7. having the a ility to provide the same. Washburne v. Washburne, 9

. 4' 6.

152. Iljectment.~—In actions to recover real roperty, the complaint need
not state the residence of either of the parties. he statute pl'0Vld68 for the
trial in certain counties, and the situation of the premises, not the residence of
the parties, determines the county. Doll v. Feller, 16 Cal. 433.

153. Under our system of pleading. the plaintifff in the action to recover
possession of real estate, is not limited to any particular form of complaint, but
the form ma be adapted to the facts desired to be put in issue. Plaintiff may
allege that e is seized of the premises, or of some estate thereon, in fee. for
life, or for years, or he may aver a former possession and ouster ; but whatever
as ut in issue and determined, is conclusive and final. Caperton v. Schmidt, 26

- a 490.

154. Plaintih‘ may aver title in general terms; but if he attempt to set forth
in his complaint a specific deraignment of his title, he must aver every fact
that he could be required to prove in order to recover. And where one of
the links in his chain of title, as set out in the complaint, is a will, the complaint must aver that the will has been admitted to probate. Castro v. Richardson, 18 Cal. 478. ’

155. The plaintiff must aver either title or possession. The mere taking
from the land a portion of the herbage growing thereon is not sumcient to

give alight of possession. Steinbeck v. Fitzpatrick, 12 Cal. 295.

156. Where the com laint in ejectment avers that the land sued for is
lmown by the name 0 “LaJota,” heretofore granted to plaintid by the
Hexican Government, and the atent issued thereon refers to the t, the
proceedings before the Land ommission and the United States curt for
eonnrmation, these recitals in the patent support the averment of title through
fhtla t. Yount v. Howell, 14 Cal. 465.

. A complaint which avers an ownership and seizure in fee in the plainti!’ of the demanded premises, and an ous e

r by the defendant on a day’

named, before the commencement of the action, is suiiicient, without the.

further averment that the laintin‘ is the owner in fee at the commencement
of the action. Salmon v. ymonds et als., 24 Cal. 266.

158. An allegation that the plaintifff, on a day named, “ was possessed o " '

cumin lands therein described, “ which said remises the said laintif
claims in fee simple absolute,” is an alle ation 0 title in the lain ' to the
premises in fee simple absolute. Mars v. Sha ter, 32 Cal. 15,6.

159. It is not necessary to aver an ouster by e defendant. An averment
of a wrongful withholding of the possession by the defendant, is equivalent
to an averment of an ouster. Id.

160. Where the ouster was alleged to have taken lace in June, 1856, while
Qie title of plaintid was alleged to have accrued only in May, 1859: Held, that
if this were not a clerical error, it is a defect which cannot be taken advantage
of after verdict. C01-yell v. Gain, 16 Cal. 567. s

161. Complaint need not state the exact time of the alleged ouster,
especially where no claim is made for damages, and no recovery had for
them—the allegation in this case, as to time of ouster, being “ on or about
December 12th, 185 .” Collier v. wrbett, 15 Cal. 183.

162. To enable the plaintin‘ to recover on prior possession, he must allege
and ve an actual ouster. Watson v. Zimmerman, 6 Cal. 46.

l . The want of such an allegation in the complaint is a defect which
cannot be cured by a default taken through the mistake or inadvertence of
defendant's counsel. Id.

164. A complaint in ejectment, averting prior possession in plaintifff, entry
and ouster by defendant, and that he is still in possession, is sumcient.
Bales v. Cohen, 15 Cal. 150.

165. Averment of wrongful withholding equivalent to averment of an ouster. Llarshall v. Shaflcr, 32 Cal. 176.

166. Where plaintifff relies not on the Possessory Act of the State, but on
the prior possession of himself, or of parties through whom he claims, such
pomession must be shown to have been actual in him or them; and b actual

‘on is meant a subjection to the will and dominion of the claimant,
andis usually evidenced by occupation, by a substantial enclosure, b cultivation. or by appropriate use, according to the _}»articular locality an quality
of the property. 001-yell v. Gain, 16 Cal. 56 .

167. Aparty relying on the Possessory Act of the State must show compliance with its provisions, and can then maintain an action for the possession

of lands occupied for cultivation or 'ng‘,nvII;1itliout showing an actual enclosure or actual possession of the w ole c ' . Id. 168. In this case the complaint should only have averred that on some day
designated plaintiffs were possessed of the land, describi it; that while
thus possessed, defendant entered upon the same and ous them, and has
ever since withheld the possession from them to their damage, specifying

such sum as might cover the value of the use and occupation from the date
of the ouster. Id.

169. A complaint should not set out the means conveyances the which
plaintiff deraigns title. These are matters of evidence, not of pl ' , and
should be stricken from the complaint on motion. Id.

170. Where gliaintif has been in possession of the premises for which
he sues, it will sufiicient for him to allege such possession, and the entry,

ouster and continued withholdin b the defendant. Such allegations are I

proper when they correspond wit e facts, but they are not essential. In
this State possession does not always accompany the legal title, as the statute

authorizes a sale and ,conveyance_ of land held: 8$1V.6.1‘B.el1 but 
Pdgne'¢i:DeweyvL'1l%adinél1,_16  " ' a 
11. An allegation that the possession ofddefendant is “ wrongful or. unlawful”, is not the statement of a fact, but of a conclusion of law. The ,
 811'; mere snrplusage, and though, they  not vitiate, they‘ do no ,
172. There is no neoessityof negativingthe possible rightflllnharacter of ‘
defendant's possession. Such possession is a pleadable and issuable fact;.
but if it rest,uF)'n any existing right defendant must show it_amrmat1yely in.
hisdefense. (1. ‘ i" “ ‘i ‘ ‘ ’
I732 The only facts neces A to be allegedare, that the plaintiff is 
of epremises, orof some es to thereinim fee, or for life, or for years, 
co to the fact, and that ‘the defendant was  their possession at the
commencement of the action, and withholds the possession from plaintiff.
The seizin isthe fact to be ged. It; is a pleadable and issuable fact,‘ to‘
be established by conveyance om a paramount source of title, "or by ‘evidence’ of prior possession. Id. _ A i" "
174. In ejf-cieltlment, a variance between the alle ed seizin and ri ht of poasession ofpp as and the dateof con,_vey_ance to  , is immateria, , if thelat-L
ter be revious to thencommencement of e action. Right of ‘possession in ,
 8611(3) (300313 4 ion by defendant, at t time, are sudicient, Stark v.

175. A complaint. with general averments, in the usual form, is_ sumciegt
without a speciiic averment of 'the'facts.‘ To set out the facts connected wi 7
the title, and. the w  acts of the defendant, would produce confusion)
without benent. 'Ga ' T. Sampson, 15 Cal. 93. ’ T‘ ‘

176. ‘The allegations of the complaint must be construed most strongly

' the pleader. A com laint that alleges he is in possession in one
p ' and in another avers tgat he is not, shows no cause of ' action. DicIcin- i
sonv. Mdguire,9Cal. 46. t’ 't " '

177. Consequentl , where the plaintin ’s complaint in ejectment averted,
titlein plaintifff un er a sherifs sale, madeb one sheriff, and a deed’ executed by hissuccessor: Held, that the plain ' could not recover. Aldcrson
v.Bc1landwz'fe,'9Cal. 315. ' "'  T ” ’ ‘ *

118. Notwithstanding our statute has dispensed with the old form of pleading, and it is no longer nece ”' ‘ to allege Va fictitious demise, still, facts suf- _
iicent must he pleaded to show t e glzintin ’s right to recover, and it willnot ‘
t$l}(‘l>(‘)'to state conclusio‘ns of law in p ‘cc thereof. Payne v. Treadwell, 5 Cal.

179. Where the allegations of a complaint in the District Court are, that
the plaintifff was‘ inpossession,‘ and lawfull e’n‘titled_ to the possession, at‘
the "tune he was evicted by the defendant: ‘H , that the com laint must be
treated as a declaration in e‘ectment.’ ‘ Ramirez v. Murray, 4 51:293. ' ' '

180. Complaint may be or two separate and distinct pieces of land; but
the two causes of action must be ‘separately stated, adect all the parties to
tlhag action, and not require dinerent places of trial. Bolesv. Cohen, 15 Cal.

181. Acomplaint, averting that plaintifff was in actual possession of the_
premises by enclosure and cultivation; that defendan on a certain day, entered upon the same, and ousted the laintin‘, and de endant is still, in'pos- .
session, is sumcient. , Boleswv. Weif V lo, .15 Cal. 144. T ' '

_ #189,411 a complaiutin,eje_ctment, parties may seek, in addition to a recovery,

of the premises, an injunction restraminglthe, commission of trespass _in the
nature of waste ending the action; but e grounds of equity, interposition
should be state subsequentl , to and distinct from those upon which the
judgment at law is sought. N A a Water cf: Mining Co. v. Clarlcin, 14 Cal. 544. _

183. Nor is a complaint in_s_uch action suilicient, which fails to aver a continued adverse ho1ldi,ng‘by the defendant. Steinbeck v. Fitzpatrick, 12 Cal. 295.

184. Inreal actions, it is necessary for the demandant to all e, and, if.
traversed, proves seizin in himself, or his ancestors through whom e claims; I
and in general it is also necessary to aver‘ that hewas seized by taking, the
esplies or .pro£ts. Payne v. Troadwea, 5 Cal. 310. _

13. An allegation of_thc value of the use and occupation, rents and profits
of &e pnemises‘fer_ the‘ ' riod during which defendants were in the wronglulj
passion and exclud plaintiff, issumcient to charge‘ defendants, without,
any averment that they received such rents and profits. The terms “ rents
and pants ” are not usedin the resent case ins technical sense. ' The wllilzge
aeermentis in etect onlythatt evalue of the use of the premisesw ' e_
were wro y excluded, was the amount stated. Patterson v. Ely,

1&. Goodwin v. Stebbins, 2 Cal. 103, so far as it holds that the averment ’
that ' u'& “ werelawfully entitled ‘to the possessionof the remises," was‘
an ‘on of a material fact, and hence sumcient, not law. ’& Dewey
v.‘~TruadweH, 16 Cal. 220. ' Payne v. Treadwell, 5 Cal. v 310, in w ch the averment of the complaint was, that laintifs had‘ “ lawful title as owners in‘ fee
sim le of the premises," and “ t the defendant isin-_ possession; and un- *

withholds the same," so an as it decides that a more particular state- ‘
mat of ‘ thecireunistances ’ of defendant’s possession or withholding is
necessarv, overruled. l6Cal. 220. l i ' " ' ' "  "

'l87. in egectment. for mineral’ lands, plaintiff averred possession of a ”
large’ tract 0 land, inclu ' the mining aground inccntroversy, and that he '
occupied the land for agric tural and  see, without stating that
any use was made of the articular portionnie d defendants. This averment of . ‘on, and zilso the averment of ouster, were insumciently denied in answer; but-the answer averred amnnatively, that, at the time de-"
fcndante entered upon the ground‘ in -dispute,‘it was a part of the public
domain of the United States, contained large and valuable deposits of gold, ‘
that they entered upon and took possession of it t foi-‘mining p sec, and
thetthey held andused it for such purposes only. e Court
below gave judgment for plaintiff on the pleadings. . Held, that these anlrma--i
live averments of defendants being proved, plaintlil’ could, not recover without showing such an -actual and meritorious possession and occugiancy as renderedthe interference of the defendants un'ust and inequita le; that he
could not recover on the leadings, because a character of his possession 1
did not appear-——tJ:e comp int not averring that thisparticular portion of the
lacpld {lat ever used by plaintid for any purpose whatever. Smith v. Doc, 15

188. The allegation of ‘possession is too broad todefeat the rights of a peran who has,Ii: good fai , located upon public mineral land for the purpose

mining. . . < 2 . -‘ - c ’

189. Complaint should not state the evidence, but only the ultimate facts
constituting the cause of action. Depuy v. W'dl1'ams. 26 Cal. 313.

1%. Hattetrs of evidence and unnecessary matters of description of de- -u
msnded premises, should be stricken out of a complaint to recover possession
of land. Wilson v. Gleaveland, 30 Cal. 192.

191. naeapumax ‘ma 1:; compiaintesee post, gas.

192. Bxecutors, administrators. guardians, etc.—'I‘he failure of the
plaintifff to allege in his complaint in a suit on such claim‘, its presentation to
and rejection by the administrator, is an objection that the complaint does
1:11. stage facts sumcient to constitute a cause of action. Hentsch v. Porter, 10

193. But the cause of action mentioned in the Code is a present subsisting
cause of action, entitling the plaintin‘ to judgment at the time the action was
comm’ end .- Id. ‘  ’  ‘ '

194. A legatee who has been re resented by counsel at the allowance of accounts againsttheestate will not ’ allowed, after a lapse of time, to come in
andhave the allowance‘ setaside on a mere eneral averment of newly discovered evidence. Williams v. Price, 11 Cal. 12. -‘ ‘

195. In such a case it is not sumcient to allege ignorance atthe time of allcwance, but the laintiil‘ must go farther and show that he could not, with
the use of due- ' ce on hislpart, have made himself acquainted with, or
ascertained the existence of the facts. Id. ' l .

196. Though an administrator be described in the caption of the complaint

as administrator, yet the facts show that it is not sought to charge him as administrator, and no relief is sought against the estate: Held, that the objection that he is sued in his representative capacity is untenable. People v.
Houghtaling, 7 Cal. 348.

197. A complaint alleging that the testator was seized and ssessed of certain premises at the time of his death, on the nineteenth 0 Jul , 1855, and
that the plantids were appointed the executors of his last will an testament,
without averring in direct terms, either previously or subsequently, the fact
of the testator’s death, or that he left a last will and testament, is defective as
a pleading. Halleclc v. M ixer, 16 Cal. 574.

198. The complaint here averring that plaintiffs were duly appointed executors of the last will and testament of the deceased, and have ever since been
such executors, and as such have been ever since in the ssession of the
premises, is not demurrable, on the iiic ground that it oes not show that
plaintids are the executors of F.. or ve any authority to maintain the action, though it is subject to other objections. The complaint should state the
death of F., his leaving a last will and testament, the appointment therein of
the plaintidh as executors, the probate of the will, the issuance of letters teatamentary thereon to the plaintiffs, and their qualihcation and entry upon the
discharge of their duties as executors. Id.

199. One in the possession of personal property as administrator can
bring an action in his own name against a wrong doer for its wrongful conversion, without setting forth, in the complaint, his odicial and representative
capacity. An allegation in the com laint, that the laintif sues as administrator, 1s surplusage. Munch v. W’ zamson, 24 Cal. 67.

200. Failure of, conaideration.—A county warrant drawn by the Auditor,

directing the Treasurer to pay H. E. Co. nine hundred and sixty-fiyie dollabr;
or services as county rinter, was for a valuable consideration in orsed

H. E. Co. to F., and by) F. transfered to plaintid for nine hundred and sixtyfive dollars, paid b the latter. The warrant was, in fact, illegal and valueless, and ayment ing for this reason refused by the Treasurer, plaintiff instituted e
amount paid him, settin up in the complaint the foregoing facts, and tha
defendants, at the time of their transfers, re resented that e warrant was
valid, and would be paid on presentation. Ifeld, on demurrer, that the complaint stated a cause of action, and that on the facts alleged plaintifff was entitled to recover Hf1:0In defendants the money which he had paid for the warrant. Keller v. mks, 22 Cal. 457.

201. A partial failure of consideration cannot he pleaded in bar of an action
upon a note given for the purchase money of land. Reesev. Gordon, 19 Cal. 147.

202. Porec1osure.—The averment in the complaint that the plaintid’ is the
owner of the note and mortgage in suit, is a sufficient answer to a demurrer, on
the ground that it does not ap ear by the complaint that the plaintifff is the
holder of the note. Rollins v. orbes and Wife, 10 Cal. 299.

203. An action will not lie on the mere recital in a mortgage of the existence
of the debt. In an action upon the promise to pay money, if the complaint
contains no averment of consideration or of indebtedness, except by wa of
iéeclital, itis insuilicient. Shafer v. Bear River and Auburn W. and M. 0., 4

a . 294. '

204. A general averment in the complaint, to enforce the vendor's lien, that
the mortgage is defective as a security, is not sufficient to withdraw the case
from the general rules above stated. Hunt v. Waterman, 12 Cal. 301.

205. In foreclosing a mortgage containing a stipulation that the mortgagee
should be entitled to all costs, including counsel fees not exceeding tlve per
cent. of the amount due, it is not necessary to aver in the complaint that five
per cent. was reasonable counsel fees, as the counsel fees thus stipulated to be
paid were not the cause or action, but, like costs, a mere incident to it, and
might be fixed by the Court, at its discretion. not exceeding the five per cent.
Oarriere v. Minlum, 5 Cal. 435.

206. In an action to foreclose a mortgage, an allegation that a party who is
made a co—defendant with the mortgagor, has or claims to have some interest in,

resent action against H. E. Co. and F. to recover hack the 0

or claim upon the mortgaged premises. is sumcient without averring the character of the interest. Anthony v. Nye. 30 Cal. 401.

207. An allegation in a complaint to foreclose a chattel mortgage, that the
furniture and upholstery were furnished for and used in the furnishing of the
hotel in the City and County of San Francisco, known as the “ Willows,” is not
an allegation that the goods were used in a “ hotel.” nor that they were used in
a building called the “ Willows,” nor that the “ Willows” was a hotel. Stri
v. Davis, 30 Cal. 318. '

208. If the complaint in a foreclosure suit avers that the mortgage was executed by the defendant (thereby making it by averment a legal mortg e), and
also sets out a copy of the same. and it appears on its face not to be egal as

distinguished from an equitable mortgage, the averment may be rejected as
surplusage. Vassault v. Austin, 32 Cal. 597.

209. Action to redeem.--The plaintiff, in an action to redeem a mo _ ,
need not allege or prove a tender of the amount due upon the mortgage debt

previous to the commencement of the action. Daubenspeclc v. Plait, 22 Cal.
330.

210. Praud. to set aside a conveyance.-—Query : Whether a complaint,
seeking to set aside a conve ance on an allegation that it was made voluntarily
and without a valuable cons deration, and to hinder, delay and defraud creditors,
and particularly plaintid’, is demurrable, because of the generality of this allegation of fraud, and what degree of particularity in the statement of facts and

circumstances is required when a fraudulent conveyance is alleged to have been
made. Kohner v. Ashenauer, 17 Cal. 57 8.

211. In a bill to set aside certain conveyances of real estate as fraudulent
against creditors, there is no necessary inconsistency in averring the grantee to
be a nctitious person, and that the deed to him, or in his name, was made to
binder and defraud creditors. Purlcitt v. Polaclc, 17 Cal. 327.

212. Plaintid‘ sues defendants for partition of certain property. The Court
orders a sale of the property and distribution of the proceeds; after the sale.
G. Eles a petition, statin that he is creditor of one F. M. Harris (not plaintiff),
and has an attachment ien on the interest of said F. M. Harris, in the property sold; that said property, in fact, belonged to F. M. Harris, and that any
conveyances of the same from him to plaintifff’ were merely colorable, for the
use and benefit of F. M. Harris, and made to hinder, delay and defraud his
creditors ; G. asked the Court to pay him the share of the proceeds of the partition sale coming to plaintifff; Court refused. Held, that there was no error;
that the petition of G., being an attempt to defeat a conveyance to plaintifff, on
the ground of fraud. is insutiicient in this, that there is no allegation of the insolvency of F. M. Harris, and that the charges of fraud are too general. and do
not state the specific facts constituting the fraud. Harris v. Taylor, 15 Cal. 348.

213. A party is not confined to his remedy by statute, but may resort to a

Court of equi for relief against a judgment obtained by fraud or surprise.
Carpentier v. art, 5 Cal. 407.

214. Plaintiff and defendant were partners in the purchase of mining claims.
Defendant was the active partner, and acquainted with the value of a certain
claim owned by the firm. plaintifff being ignorant of its value ; plaintifff sold his
interest in this claim to defendant for greatly less than its value. Held, that in
a suit by plaintifff against defendant to set aside this sale for fraud and for an
account, etc., an averment that defendant is indebted to laintiff on an account
in a sum greater than that paid by defendant for the min ng, is in etfect an oder

to place defendant in statu qua, as per the rule of law. Watts v. White, 13 Cal.
321.

215. A complaint in equity, tlled for the purpose of setting aside a ant, on
the gonad that it was obtained by fraud. must state specifically and ctlnitely
the cts constituting the fraud. Oakland v. Oarpentier, 21 Cal. 642.

216. In an action brought to vacate a patent for land on the ground that its
issuance was procured from the government by false suggestions, fraudulent
concealments, andrlx misrepresentations, the acts of fraud and misrepresentation
on which the gene charge is based must be specified in the complaint, or it

just in satisfaction of said mortgages, and the

glilgnptlstzb facts snnicient to constitute a cause of action. Sample v. Hagua . 6 .

217. A complaint in an action in the name of The People on the relation of . a
private individual _ _
the defendant. which merely avers that the relator is seized an possessed

to cancel apatent for a tract of’ land issued b the State to’.

the land, and that his title was derived from the. State of California under an 

by virtue of the location of a school warrant made under and in accordance

withthe provisions of an Act of the Legislature; that saidlocation was duly 3

and properly made, and in all respectsaccording to the provisions of said Act,
go: tact Etaite facts sumcient to constitute a cause of action. People v. Jackson
. 4 a _. 632.

218, Bill, avers, gnbsubstance, plaintifff to  holder of several notes 

mortgages execute him by defendants, H. and wife, and that ‘defendant
O’D. proposed to plaintiff to buy said notes and mortgages for a certain sum, t
which plaintid agreed to take; that O’D. desired, before closinigthe purchase, to see‘H. and wife,’ and learn whether they could be induced or comIled to pay the notes; asked plaintifff‘ for the notes and mortgages to show

. and wife, and that plaintiff delivered them to him, relying on 's
that,O’D. saw H. and wife, who were illiterate, and b re resenting himself
as the owner of the notes, etc., which ' he exhibited, y eatening to ‘sue’,
etc., induced H. and wife to give him an absolute deed in fee simple of the

honesty; ~

mortgaged premises for one hundred dollars, the premises. be’ worth many i_

thousands of dollars; that O’D. then returned the notes, etc., eclined purchasin of plaintifff, and concealed the fact of havin a deed, from H. and.
wife; t all this was a fraud of plaintifff; that O’ . in tald said deed
acted as agent and trustee of plaintifffand for. his benefit, and s ould have
taken the deed in hisiname; that in equity said O’D.’ought to declare such
trust, and execute a deedof the property to plaintin‘; that on account of a
defect in the record of one o the mortgages, 1t,does not impart notice, etc.,
and that if ‘O’D. should sell e property, as he is trying to do, to an innocent
purchaser, such sale would injure plaintiff irreparably. Other parties are
madedefendants as claiming some interest subsequent to plaintih‘. Gomplaint praysfor‘ injunction against O’D.; that said trust be declared; that he
execute a deed toplaintiti‘; that‘ H. and wife execute to plaintifff such further
conveyance, and assurance, and_ release of e nit of redemption as ma be
qt ‘ defendants be barred, areclosed, etc., or that the deed by H. and wife to O'D.’bedec1ared void and canceled, and he be foreclosed of all uity of redemption thereunder; and if such
deed is canceled, that then plain ' have judgment against H. and wife on said
notes; that all the defendants be barred, etc., and premises sold to pay the
' agments. etc. O’D. demurs that inconsistent causes of action are united.

J“ 7
HeId,'that the demurrer is not well ‘taken; that ‘the allegations of the come .

plaint make cuts‘ homogeneous case as against all the defendants, to wit: a.
right to enforce the mortgages, and to a decree of foreclosure binding subsequent claimants, of whom O’D. by his urchase is one, with notice of the
mortgages. DeLeon v. H iguera, 15 Cal. 3.

219. A creditor who has purchased land of the debtor at eheritre  and
obtained a sherifs deed therefore, in a complaint to cancel a deed given by

the debtor to defraud himbefore judgment was recovered, need .not aver that .

gs debtor was insolvent when he made the deed. Eager v. Shindler, 29 Cal.

who has a sheriff's‘ deedof land, to set aside and cancel a deed of the same
'ven b, the jucgment ' debtor before the recov "of ju ent to defraud,
e craztor, nee not aver that the plaintifff has e austed 's remedy at law
by issuin an execution and having it returned nulla bona. Id. :
221. ‘ ere a bill in equity is filed to cancel a deed, which avers that the
grantor deposited the same with a third person, to be b him delivered to the
grantee upon the order of the grantor or his agent, an that before the agent
ave the order,’ the banter directed the third person not to deliver the deed, but I
does not aver that _ e third person intends or threatens to deliver the deed to
the grantee, or that he will disobey'_the instructions of the grantor, the bill

220. The complaint in a suit in equity brought, by the judgment creditor, i

 toeconstitnte amuse ofuaotion. Each v. Bum?»

222. Judgment. relief aga_lnst'.—To obtain the aid of chance to vacate
a judgment, as party must show that he has exhausted all proper ' ‘genes to’.
defend in the suit in which judgment was rendered. If e relies on" fraud"
and deception practiced on‘ the Court in managing, ring, and ‘giving
evidence, he must show that by such practice he was d rauded of his oppor-_.

' to defend, ‘and that his defense would otherwise have been efectual.
B , ‘v. Baker, 13 Cal. 295.
‘$23. The complaint--the suit being to set aside a judgment of H., L. d: B. v.

E'nc:'n——after set ' out minutely the proceedings adopted by themin having '

the Clerk enter up t e judgment, then avers that " said proceedings and circumstances under whichsaid judgment was entered up by said Clerk, render‘
the same void in law,‘ the said Clerk havin no power or Jurisdiction to enter
d judgment under the circumstances and in the manner stated, and that

the same is fraudulent as against this laintid‘, and tends to his eat and ‘
' ble injury:” that W., attorneyo H'., L. & B., was a pa to the“;
fraud; that the ‘ndgment was without consideration—was false, covinous ‘and ’

fraudnlc:-nt— that E. is insolvent, states facts sumcient to constitute a

cause of action, and W. being charged as a party to the fraud, is properly.’

joined as defendant. Crane v. Hirsbfelder, 17 Cal. 467.

224. In order to set aside a judgment or conveyance on the ground of 4
hand, it is not sumcient to aver in general terms that such judgment or con’ was fraudulent, but the acts‘ and circumstances constituting the

veyance
allegedfraudmust beset forth. Castlcetahv. Baderetal., 23 Cal. 75. 860*

also Snowy. Halstead, 1 Cal. 359.

225. Where a judgment by confession is attacked by a creditor as fraudulent '

against him, on the ground that the object of the debtor, and the judgment
creditor was to assist thedebtor in forcing a compromise with his other creditors rather than to enforce the judgment, the complaint must plead this
ground of objection to the judgment A general averment that the intent was,
to hinder, delay and defraud, 18 insumcient. Meeker v. Harris, 19 Cal. 278.
226. Snell; general averment of fraud will not, put the adverse party on his

227. Where a creditor nles a bill. to cancel and set aside a judgment. rendered against his debtor, on the ground that it is fraudulent, and to reach the
 of the debtor, andhave it ap liedin satisfaction of his demand, the
com lamt must aver, either that the p aintiif has acquired a lien on the property e seeks to reach, or that he has recovered a judgment upon which an exe§uatizon2gagalbee7% issued, andreturned no property found. Castle at at. v. Badcr

228, A complaintin an action to set aside a judgment, which contains no
averment showi that relief could not have been obtained on motion, may A
bedeniable, but.’ defendant fails to demur, and answers on the merits, and
the fact su pl ' A the defect appear in the record, the objection is waived.
Ribesd v. reutz, Cal. 109.

229. Relief on account o£—In an action for relief on this _oun_d, the
fraud is the substantive cause of action, and not the discovery‘; Igrthereforee, the plaintiff alleges the fraud to have been committed more an three years_
before the commencement of his action, his cause ‘of action is barred, andhis
complaint is demurrable. If the plaintiffwishes in such a case to brin him-”
self within the exception of the statute, he must allege the fact of a ' every of a fraud at a period bringing him within the exce tion. Sublette v. Tinney, 9 Cal. 423 ; Carpentier v. Oily of Oakland, 30 Cal. .

230. A complaint alleging that the defendant collected and received certain
money, as the agent or attorney in fact of the plaintiff, ‘and had embezzled
andeonverted the money to h.is.owu.use, and praying that he be adjudged
guilty of fraud, and for judgment and execution against his person and.
property, is insuiiicient to sustain a verdict convicting the defendant of.

mud. Porter 11. Hcnnaan, 8.Cal. 623.

231. The complaint should state the facts that constitute the dduciary capaci , as well as its nature and extent. Id.

. . A bill in e uity, to obtain relief on the ground of fraud, is not sumcient if it charge rand in general terms, but the facts constituting the fraud
should be stated. Kent v. Snyder, 30 Cal. 666.

.233. A complaint in e uity, to have a deed absolute on its face, reformed
so as to become a deed o trust. which avers that the deed does not e ress
the trusts and conditions upon which it was agreed the proper? sho d be
transferred, but that such conditions were by the defendants raudnlently
suppressed, without any statements of what acts of fraud were practiced, does
not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. Id.

234. When the cause of action stated in the complaint is for relief, on the
ground of fraud, and is stated to have accrued more than three years before
the commencement of the action, the com laint should also aver that the acts
constituting the fraud had been discove within three years; but if the re
lication contains this averment, and this issue is tried without objection. t

irre rity in the answer of presenting the issue will be disregarded. Boyd
v. lanlcman, 29 Cal. 20.

285. Husband and wife.-—A complaint by husband and wife to recover the
homestead conveyed away by the deed of the husband alone, must aver either
that the premises were occupied as a homestead at the date of the conveyance,
or that they had not been previously abandoned. Harper v. Forbes, 15 Cal. 202.

236. In an action for the division of the common pro erty of husband and wife
after a decree of divorce, the plaintifff, to bring herse f within the provisions of
the act "defining the rights of husband and wife,” passed April 17th. 1850,
must adirmatively state such facts as give her the right to the property under the
act. a v. Dye. 11 Cal. 163.

237. u an action for a division of the common property after a divorce, where
it appears that the property in question had been in the possession of the husband before marriage without title, and that he purchased the property and
obtained deeds therefore after marriage, the purchase money being paid with the
common funds : Held, that it was common property. Held further. that the
defendant having purchased with the common funds from another, under a deed
of warranty, he is estopped to deny, as far as plaintifff is concerned. that be acquired a good title by the purchase. Johnson v. Johnson. 11 Cal. 200.

238. Where the plaintifff averred in her complaint. in a suit brought for her
distributive share of the estate of an alleged deceased husband. that the deceased
made proposals of marriage to her. when she accepted, and consented to live
with him as his true and lawful wife; and that in accordance with his wishes,
she thenceforth lived and cohabited with him as his wife. always conducting
herself as a true, faithful and affectionate wife should do : Held. that these were
insufhcient averments of the existence of a marriage. and that the facts averred

were only prima facie evidence of a marriage. Letters v. Cady, 10 Cal. 533;
see People v. Anderson, 26 Cal. 129.
239. n suit against the wife for her separate debt, for which she was liable in

personam before coverture, the complaint need not set out any separate property
of the wife. Bostic v. Love. 16 Cal. 69.

240. Where husband and wife are sued for rent claimed on a lease made by
plaintifff to the wife, plaintifff and the wife being tenants in common of the property: Held, that the wife can be liable only as sole trader under the statute; and
that the complaint must averfacts requisite to establish her liability in that character, and that the allegation that she “was doing business as a femme sole. with
tgegplnsfp; of her husband,” is insullicient. Aileen v. Ann Davis and her Husband,
I . .

241. Injunctions, what averments sumoient.—An allegation in the complaint that plaintifff was in possession of the land as owner when defendant
entered, is a sufficient statement of title in suit for injunction to restrain trespass. Hiclcs v. Compton, 18 Cal. 206.

242. A bill to restrain vexations litigation, upon the ground that the right
to real roperty has been determined in former suits, must show that the
title to e property was determined in a suit or suits, in which all the claimants to the title were parties. Knowles v. Inches, 12 Cal. 212.

243. A complaint alleging that plaintiffs had, for a long time, conveyed
water from a stream for mining purposes b means of a ditch, and had us
acquired a prior right to the en 'oyment anti use of the water, and were in the
peacesble possession thereof w en defendants wrongfully diverted the same,
and deprived plaintifffs thereof, and were continuing so to do, is sumcient to
maintain a prayer for an in’ ction. Tuolumne Water Co. v. Chapman, 8 Cal.
392. See sec. 112, and au- orities thereunder.

244. A complaint which 'oins an action of trespass, re clausum fregil,
with ejectanent, and prays or an injunction, will be hel bad on demurrer.
Bigeiou: v. Grove, 7 Cal. 135.

245. In this case, it was held that the tem ry injunction granted on nling
the complaint should not have been dissolv before the hearin ; that on the
acts stated in the complaint, an action for damages would be ruitless; that
although the complaint does not aver absolute insolvency of defendants, still
enough is averred to satisfy the Court that a judgment for damages would be

wortfiless, and hence the injunction ought to have been continued. Hicks
v. Compton, 18 Cal. 206.

246. To entitle a plaintifff to the uitable interposition of the Court, he
must show a proper case, and one in w ° he has no adequate remedy at law.
DeWil1 v. Hays, 2 Cal. 463.

247. The complaint avers title in plaintifff to a tract of land; that the
possession of defendants is forcible and unlawful; that an action for forcible
entry has been commenced by plaintiff against defendants, and is still pending
and undetermined; and asks for an injunction to restrain defendants from
cutting and removing timber from the land—without seeking in this suit to be
restored to the possession, the object of the suit being to preserve the property during the pendency of that action. Held, that injunction lies, although
no action of law has been brought to try the title; that the jurisdiction of
equity in such cases, to grant first a temporary and subsequently a perpetual
injunction, does not depend upon the question whether or not such action at
law has been brought; that the rule under the English chancery s stem was
the same, and that our statute is not more restrictive. H iclcs v. ichael, 15
Cale-isimciu See 2:1CaL 643' d ber sum t d

. tting,estro' anremo' wintim is ciengroun
for an injunction, withiiirgt: any allegtit1.1°I<1)8ns81o‘i' insgolvency. Henshaw v. Clark
and one hundred and three Chinamen, 14 Cal. 460.

249. F., defendant, began suit against the Volcano Water and Mini Company, to subject to sale the ditch of that name, including aqueducts, umes,
culverts, dams, cabins, etc., in enforcement of a mechanic’s lien. Subsequently, the ditch, etc., was sold on a judgment in favor of one Harris, and
purchased by 8., from whom plaintifff, as 'udgment creditor of the corn y,
redeemed, and in due time received the sjhend‘ ‘s deed. Afterward, F. a
decree directing a sale of the ditch, etc., to satisfy his lien. Plaintiif sues to
3p.i‘et title, alleging that F. 's decree is fraudulent, that he had no lien, and

he is aboutenforoing the decree, which :is a cloud on plaintifff 's title.
Held, that, aside from any quation of fraud, the action lies; that the existence of a decree, founded upon proceedings taken prior to plaintifff's title, and
seeking to condemn the property by virtue of an asserted hen older than such
title, would be a cloud upon that title. Head v. Fordyce, 17 Cal. 149.

250. Insumoleut: allegattons.—The sirn le allegation of “ irreparable injury" is not sufficient; it should a pear to e Court from the facts set forth
in the bill. DeWitt v. Hays, 2 C . 463.

251. Where the complaint alleged that in September, 1849, plaintifff settled
on a tract of land, “the same being public land of the United States;" that
subsequently H., a foreigner, built a house on and occupied a portion of the
tract; and now that H. 's executor is ofering the same for sale, and plaintiff
prays an injunction, and damages for the occupation: Held, that the plaintiff
gegsdfoaryoi no principle on which to base a claim. O'Connor v. Corbitt,

252. In a bill for partition amo tenants in common, and for injunction
against cutting timber trees: Hddfghat defendants being tenants in common,

had‘the rightto'the' enjoyment of ‘the commonestate, and toctrt timber and use
ardisposeofitatleasttoanextentcorrespondingtotheirshare oftheestate;
and that as thecomplaint neither avers the insolvency of defendants, nor that
té1.eiy6a4i(')e exceeding this share, injunction does not ‘lie. H ihn v. Pack, 18
253. Where .suit is pending in one Court on a note of defendant, though no
summons has been served, and no a co made, he cannotbringa bill in
.equity, in another Court, to enjoin e collection of the note, or to cancel it,

. the avermentbeing, simply, that he has a good defense to the note. Smith v.

Sparrow, 13 Cal. 596.

254. Bill for an injunchbnto restrain defendants from taking possession of
plelrtain real estatgt; warehouse and Complaililrt avers plamtin‘s' title to

a property, an air possession; endants' ave conspired’ together,
and are threatening to take by force the property from plaintiffs, and are
making przpm-ations and using violent means to drive plaintiffs-and their workmen from e premises; that plaintids are in possession of teams, carriages,
etc., for transporting goods from said warehouse and what!’ to Los Angeles, ‘as
1 business connected with said premises; and thatunless defendants are restrainedfromexscutingtheirthreats, plaintifffs will be mined in their business, and their property be destroyed. Held, that these allegations are insufncient to authorize an injunction. there being no ave!-ment of insolvency of
defendants, and the com laint not showing that there is no adequate remedy
atlaw. ibmlinson v. R , 16 Cal. 202.

255. Where the complaint alle ed that the defendants had a mining ditch
above one previously constructs by defendants, and had thereby diverted the
water of the stream from plaintiffs ditch, but did not aver that the 
was continuin , or threatened to be continued, or likely to be continued: ,
that it was cient for the recovery of damages, but not to sustain ‘an illjunction. Uoloer v. Simpson, 7 Cal. 340.

256. In a bill for an injunction, the mere allegation of great ‘and irreparable
injury to a vested right is iusufficient; the facts stated must satisf the Court
that the a rehension of such injury is well founded. Branch urapiice 00.
v. Board 0 Supervisors of Y uba County, 13 Cal. 190.

257. Defendant, as coroner and acting sherif, levied on; and advertised for
sale, all the right, title and interest of . in certain horses and cattle, in the
hands of a receiver appointed in a suit between J. and T., as partners. Held,
that plaintifff was not entitled to an injunction restraining the sale, unless the
injury would be irreparable; and that this must appear by a clear showing of

' s right to the property and defendant’s insolvency. More v. 0rd, 15

258. Plaintiffs me their bill in equity to enjoin defendants from diverting a

certain uantity of the water of Bear river, alleging that their right to one

thousan inches of the water of that stream, as ’ inst defendants, was ad-'

judicated in a former action. In that action, w ' h was trespass for the
diversion of the water, it was alleged that this uanti of the water of the
stream had been appropriated by the plaintifffs ' 2, s; that such
quantity was necessary for their use, and that defendan ad diverted the
same, to their damage, etc. Plaintids had verdict and j out for $21,800
damages. Held, that the averments are insumcient to enti e plaintids to dn
in'unction, the scope of the bill being simply to enforce in equity laintifs
, ed right to one thousand inches of water, on the sole ground it was
a u go their ri ht in the former suit. McDonald v. Bear Riverdnd Auburn

ate:-and Mining o._, 15 Cal. 145. p M

259. It is not sudicrent that the affidavit should alle ‘ that the injury‘ will
be irreparable; it must be shown to the Court how an why it would be so,
otherwise the extraordinary remed of injunction will not be allowed,
especially where no action has ever etermined the plaintifffs  Waldron
v. Marsh, ,5 Cal. 119.

260. In a bin for an injunction, the‘ mere allegation of great and in 5
ble  to a vested right is insumcient; the facts stated must w6 
Court that the prehension of such inju is well founded. Branch umpilce 07. v. Boa:-gof Uupervisorrof Tuba‘ otmty, v13Ca1. 190.

BQ1. When a complaint, in _an action to restrain the commission of tres_pql_leI|,'avers that the defendant has torn down the fences of plaintifff, and
  close for 'the'pn1-pose of opening a private road across plaintiii‘ ‘s
 under a claim of ‘right founded on an order of a Board of Sn ervisors
mg out _a road, and does not state that the right has been set ed in an

' _'_ n at law, and that the defendant continues his acts after a Court of law
 against him, it does not state facts suiiicient to constitute a cause
ti  Leach "v." Day, 27 Cal. 643.

.282. A complaint to enjoin the sale of property under an execution, and the
issuance at another execution on the judgment, is devoid of equity, which
only avers that the judgment and execution are void on their face, and the
hnolveney of one of the defendants. Sanchez v. Carriage, 31 Cal. 170.

 If, as contended in this case, a judgment by default be void because
of.‘ the absence of the seal of the District Court to the summons issued in the
amipn in which the 'udgment was entered, or because of a defect in the certiichte of the sherid' 0 the service of summons and copy of complaint, or
Became of irregularities of the clerk in entering the judgment the District
Callzrtcan quash the execution issued on such 'udgment, and injunction to
the enforcement thereof does not lie. gas v. Hillegass, 16 Cal. 200.

'84. Ifsuch judgment be not void, but merely irregular, because of the
 ham_ed, and the defects can be reached by motion before judgment, or
(in I} ' ' then the complaint here to enjoin the enforcement of the judgment
Iho aver that plaintifff has paid the claim, for the recovery of which the
 ‘was brought, or that he has a valid defense to the same. Id.

  hoiar p1eaded.—See post, 959.
A166. I_i[be1.—See post, § 62.
3157.  pa-ose_out_i_on,——In an action for malicious (prosecution, only
thg substantial matter constituting the action, that is, facts, an not the evidence
0! hate, need be set out. Dreuh: v. Domes, 18 Cal. 83.

263. An action of conspiracy for unjustly prosecuting a party also lies, but
p'obI.b_ly diifers in format least from an action for malicious prosecution. The

-gist of an ac_t.i_on of conspiracy in the "conspiracy ’’—_the combining of two or

more to do an unlawful and injurious act, and acquittal or termination of the
 is necessary to maintain the suit. Id.

369. In suit against three defendants for malicious prosecution, the complaint
 that udefendanta contriving and maliciously intending to injure the
philltill?’ etc.,fsls_ely, maliciously and without probable cause, procured him
to be indicted for murder: Held, that the complaint suiliciently avers a joint
agency on the part of defendants in instituting the prosecution. Id.

  .—A complaint in mandamus, against the comptroller, is
hIi!‘if it fhilsto “allege that there is “ money not otherwise appropriated by
law.” out of which the compensation in question is to be paid. Bedding v. Belt,
96;]. ;"'see§ "467, and authorities thereunder.

' 371. A_. ‘staléinent in a ‘petition for avvrit of mandate that an election was held
in 'I__‘3ou.u§y to decide whether 0. or S. should be the county seat, and that the
 npervisors canvassed the returns, and estimated the vote, and declared
$b’i"wu'lt'to he that S. had received a majority or the votes, is a sufticicnt aver'itEni'§|at 8. "received a—- majority of the votes cast. Calaveras County v.

 39‘??‘.‘-i3?5l-. .

‘fl , ‘ J  when to be al1eged.—In actions upon written instrumydfdf  payment of "money, as promissory notes, the date being shown,
_  planed when the right of _action_ accrues. In such cases, any new

which  been made, renewing or continuing the contract, should he
_ ty$nRti3!anto'1id, 19 gall). 431. t I h h
_ , an ac_  i'ec_over_ a" c tagains an inso vent vv ich as been dis_  but r_evIv‘ed'b _'a new promise, the complaint is always upon the origi _ _ '; g._nd'n'o Iigfis alleged of the new promise." If the discharge is
fields}: the new 'pFoinise' may be given in evidence by the plaintifff. Id. 483.

‘S74. Comgkalnt avers in substance that defendant made his note, ctc., setting
 céiiyf ‘E 13111116!’ is hblder by transfer from the payee, etc., and that de   
  
 

fendant is indebted to plaintiff therein in the sum, etc. The complaint then
avers : “ Plaintiff further shows that after said note was executed, etc., ‘ ‘ ‘
defendant, by virtue of ' ' ' proceedings in insolvency, etc., ‘ ‘ ‘ claims to
have been discharged from the payment of the note and debt hereinbefore mentioned; and plaintifff further shows that after said discharge aforesaid, on or
about ‘ ‘ ‘ defendant promised ” the gayee and other persons that he would
pay said note to said payee on deman , etc. ; and that defendant thereby revived said obligation, etc. Held, that the complaint does not set up two causes
of action 3 that the gravamen of the action was designed to be the promise. the
previous indebtedness being averred as matter of inducement. Smith v. Richmond, 15 Cal. 501. See post note, No. 279.

276. Promissory note or bill of exchange.—In an action against the maker
of a note, or the acceptor of a bill of exchange, in which the place of payment
is fixed, it is not necessary to aver presentment at that place and refusal to pay.
Montgomery v. Tutt, 11 Cal. 307. .

277. A declaration is insuilicient which treats the maker and guarantor of a
note as joint makers,(‘arid contains no allegation of demand and notice. Lightstone v. Laurencel, 4 la . 227.

278. An indorser of a note payable on demand, no demand being made until
thirteen months after the indorsemcnt to plaintifff, is prima acie, not liable.
The delay is unreasonable. In such case, facts to excuse t e delay are an
essential part of the complaint, and if not averted therein. it is insnmcient.
Jerome v. Stcbbins, 14 Cal. 457.

279. In suits upon written instruments for the payment of mono , if it
appear from the complaint that the demand is barred, and plainti relies
upon a new promise, renewing or continui the contract, such new promise
must be alleged. Smith v. Richmond, 19 C . 476. See post, No. 283.

280. A complaint in an action commenced after the death of the husband,
on a note and mortgage executed by the husband and wife, during the life of
the husband, does not state a cause of action, unless it aver that the husband
in his lifetime failedto pa the note. Brown v. Orr, 29 Cal. 120.

281. In an action broug t upon a promise made by the defendant to t
a draft which another might draw on him, it is not necessary to aver in 0
ggrlnplaint that the promise was in writing. Walaqfield v. Greenhand, 29 Cal.

282. The point that the complaint fails to show a cause of action, because
the copy of the note sued upon and therein contained is without a cop of
an internal revenue stamp, is not tenable. Halloclc v. Jandin, Oct. T., 867.

‘ 3. A complaint upon a promissory note, the collection of which is barred
by the Statute of Limitations, contains a cause of action, if it alleges that
the defendant has some time within four years of the day the suit was commenced “ in writing, acknowledged and promised to pay the note." Such
all%ation imports that the defendant signed his name to the writing. Porter
v. (am, 25 Cal. 292.

284. If the complaint in a suit on a note avers that the defendant made and
delivered the note to the plaintih} and that the plaintih is still the owner and
holder, the alle ation that plaintid is the owner and holder is but a conclusion of law, an an answer denying it, but admitting the other allegations of
the complaint, raises no material issue. Wedderspoon v. Rogers, 32 Cal. 569.

285. In a complaint upon a promissory note, an allegation of its non-payment is materia , and, if omitted, the complaint is demurrafile. The averment that there is a certain amount due u n the note is insuiiicient, being a
statement of a mere conclusion of law. risch v. Oalcr, 21 Cal. 71.

286. If the original note offered in evidence contains an abbreviation for
the word “ admimstratrix,” and specifies the rate of interest in figures only

9

and the copy in the complaint gives the word in full and states the rate of
interest in words as well as figures, the variance is immaterial. Oorcoran v.
Doll, 32 Cal. 82. In a com laint on a romisso? note, it is not necessary
that a consideration should go a ' y ageged. I there is no consideration,

the ('ir6fe1!§%87nt should set up the want of it as a defense. Winters v. Rush,
' ct. . .

287. Quietlng title to lands.-—In an actionto quiet title against’ parties

ddming from the same source of title through a prior unrecorded conveyance,
itis necemary to aver want of notice of the conveyance. Lawton v. Gordon,
Oct. T., 1867. A complaint is demurrable if it does not state that the plaintid
was in possession at e time of the commencement of the action. Prulus,
at al. v. Jqferson G. cl: S. .2l{'mi1ag 00., Jan. T., 1868; Brooks v. Oalderwood, Jan.
T., 1868. See post, §25-L
288. Replevin.—A complamt in replevin, allegin that F. was seized and
poueaedofcertainpremisesatthetimeofhisdea ;thattheplaintin‘swere
qpointed the executors of his last will and testament, and ever since their
pointment have been in the possession of the premises; that certain persons,
w names are not designated, entered upon the same without authority,
and cut down timber wing thereon, to the amount of about three hundred
cards; that the defe t afterwards also entered upon the premises without
authority, and removed the wood thus cut, and still detains it from the
plaintiffs; that the have demanded the possession of the same from him, and
thathe refuses to sliver it to them, to their damage of $1,000—the alleged
value of the wood-sumciently shows plaintiis’ ownership of the wood.
Elilaclc v. Hirer, 16 Cal. 574.
289. The averments, in such complaint, of “unlawful and wrongful," as
:3lied to the en upon the premises and the cutting down of the timber,
to his IIEIIIOV and detention of the same, may be stricken out as sur290. The complaint averred that defendant wro ully took and detained
from one Johnson certain county warrants owned y the latter; that subsequently Johnson assigned to plaintih‘ his right in the warrants and the monies.

 t be made by the same; and, that after this assignment, plaintxf
the warrants from defendant, who refused to deliver them. Held,
that this complaint stated a sumcient cause of action; that as assignee of

Johnson, ° was entitled to recover the warrants or their value, with
z2orC:Lhe1ir39detention, accruing after the assignment. Lazard v.

291. Bhsn'i£—-A complaint against a sheriff and his sureties for selling under
enendon the homestead of _plaintiil’s, which sets out that the sherif was in
ponession of a certain execution against plaintifff, J. Kendall, and under color
of said execution wrongfully and illegally entered upon and sold certain roputy. the homestead of plaintiffs. and averring damages in the sum of S ,000,
the value of the property, is insunicient, as the same does not state facts sumclent
taeanstitnte a cause of action. No damage has, or can result from such a sale.
If the property sold was a homestead. the sherifs deed conveyed nothing. The
purchaser at sale could acquire no right to the pro erty, nor could the plaintiff
ulsr any injury. Kendall and Wife v. Clark, 10 al. 17.

893. In an action against a sharia’ to recover pro erty seized under process,
or its value, by the owner, it is necessary that the ihintiif should show amrmatively notice and demand before b ng suit, ot erwise he cannot recover in
such action. Kidey v. Scanncll,12 Ca . 73. See 30 Cal. 190 ; poet§ 218, note.

:38. A complaint in an action againsta sheriff and his sureties for an alleged
trespass ofthe sheriff, should allege that the bond was the sheriffs ofllcial bond,
and set out enough of its contents to show that those who signed it were bound
g y parties injured by the sheriff‘ ’s malfeasance. Gliiradelli v. Bourland,

194. If the‘ complaint in an action against a sheriil’ and his oalcial hondsmen
alleges only a cause of action against him as a asser, and lust his
snrcties as signers of the bond, and not otherwise, ere is a mis cinder of
asses of action. Id.

395. A complaint in an action against a sheriff and‘ his sureties' for an alleged
hespan of the sherif, which merely avers that the sureties are the securities on
his cdlcial bond, and that the same was duiiy med, executed and recorded, does
notutatte a-eauseoigsctionotrthe hond.iI ‘ham 1' “£8 Wm

ntrespass rtakinggoods,agansta wojns dundera
ofattachment against a third person, he called as a witness his deputy, who
stated that-heserved the attachment,-and related certain conversations between
himelf and the plaintifff. On cross-examination he stated that “ he was deputy

I

‘taxes assessed during

sheriff, and under bonds to the sheriff.” Whereupon plaintifff moved to strike
out his testimony on the ground of interest. Held, that the motion was properly
denied, as from the answer it was not certain that the character of his bonds
was such as to make interested. Towdy v. Ellis, 22 Cal. 650.

‘ 297. Sheriffs. actions against.—See post, §2l8.
298. Blander.—See post, § 62.

299. Statutory privilege must be alleged.—When a pleader wishes to
avail himself of a statutory

rivilege the right given by particular facts, he
must show the facts. Dye v. gye, 11 Cal. 163.

300. Statute of fraud, how pleaded

301. In an action brou ht upon a promise of the defendant to answer for
the debt or default of anot er, it is not necessary in the complaint to aver that

' the promise was in writing. Walcqield v. Greenliood, 29 Cal. 597.

302. Statute of limitation, how avoided.

303. Facts taking a case out of the provisions of the statute of limitation
must be specially set out in the complaint§Warmoulh v. Hatch, July T., 1867.

304. Under our system, the rule is the same in law and equity; and if it
appear upon the face of the complaint that the action is barred, and no facts
are alleged ' the demand from the operation of the statute, the complaint
is defective and emurrer lies. Smith v. Richmond, 19 Cal. 476.

305. If plaintifff alleges fraud to have been committed more than three
years before the commencement of his action to bring himself within the
exception of the statute, he must allege the fact of a discovery of the mind
at a period bringing him within the exception. Sublctte v. Sin at al., 9 Cal.
423; Boyd v. Blanlcman, 29 Cal. 20; Catpentier v. City of Oalcla , 30 Cal. 414.

306. Statutes. private, how pleaded.—See post, §61.

307. '.l'axes.-In an action for the collection of delinquent taxes, under the
Act of May 17th, 1861, the complaint must aver the fact of the failure of the
tax collector to collect the delinquent tax, by his reason of his inability to find,
seize, or sell property belonging to the delinquent. A complaint which fails
to make this averment shows no cause of action. People v. Pico, 20 Cal. 595.

308. A complaint under the Act of May 17th, 1861, which avers that the tax
“fwas levied Iuhpon and 1;s.stess1e‘d I ' t peirsonal ft)l1;:p6tl1'1ty,"  1:3 cause
0 action. ecomp ' s on notonyaver t etaxwas evi upon
and assessed against grsonal proaperty, but also the kind or kinds of personal

ro . Peoplev. ollada at .,26Cal.300.
P 3g;r?n an

action brought y the people to recover judgment for delinquent
the three years

receding March 1st, 1861, the complaint
is fatally defective if it does not aver at the tax collector has failed to collect

the taxes in question by reason of his inability to find, seize, or sell property

belongin to the delinquent. Id.
310. an assessment of a tax made durin the three years ‘preceding
the 'nd  quantity 0 property

March 1st, 1861, is defective, in not stating

assessed, whether real or personal, or if real, in not giving its description,
the pleader, in an action brought to’ recover judgment for such tax, may, if
the same can be ascertained, insert in his complaint the necessary averments

as to kind and quantity or description. Id.

,5: in the oldactionoftres
: complaint, an addition of these words was snrplusage.

A311. Assessments.—See Himmelman v. Danos, April T., 1868.

312. Tr Action for damages a ' st defendants, averting that they
“with force of arms, broke and entered ’ upon the premises of laintid‘, and
da ed them, by causing them to be overilowed and cover with earth,

v , tailings, ete., deposited thereon by the action of running water: Held,
t under our system otggtlleading, the words “ with force and arms, broke
and entered,” do not co ethe proof to the direct and immediate damages,
pass, and the facts being clearl set out in the

Cal. 81 slv. Rush, 14

3l3. Possession in the laintif is sumcient to enable him to maintain tresgss, and, although a h’ er title ma be attempted to be set up, the failure

suatiin it will not ggerate against e rightto recover damages. Mc0an-on
v. 0’C'omell, 7 Gal. 1 .

314. Where the com laint in an action of trespass asks, also, for the equitable interposition of e Court, if the law and equity are inseparably mixed
tagetha it would be demurrable. But it is not necessary that there should

be we showing where the declaration in trespass leaves 011‘, and
be ' inequity ' . Gatesv. Kief, 7 Cal. 124.

315. '.l.'.‘roverPThe conversion is the gist of the action of trover, and without conversion neither ‘on of pro rty, negligence nor misfortune,
will enable the action to maintained. ers v. Huie, 2 Cal. 571.

316. To render defendant liable to the action, he must have converted the
puperty _to his own use; and if not, then any other act to amount to

a conversion, must be done with a wrongful intent, either expressed or im- '

plied. Id. .

317. A complaint (where there is more than one laintid’) in an action to
recover damages for the alleged seizure of goods, w ‘ch avers that the defendant took and carried awa “ certain goods, chattels and effects, of and belonging to the said plaintiffs, ’ does not necessarily aver a joint ownership of the
goods in the plaintiffs; but would be sustained by proof that the plaintids
owned the as partners, or as tenants in common. and that their respective interests erem were very unequal. Pelberg v. Gorham, 23 Cal. 349'
Ieealso 10 Cal. 520. ’

318. Undertakings, statutory bonds.

319. Btmd.—Where the condition of a bond is to pay the debt of another,
he condition rates merely by way of defeasance; and, if a defendant
chooses to put ‘s obligation in that form, he elects to be originally liable.
A bond should be sued on, setting out breaches and damages. Assum sit on
Eeeonditionwouldbehadondemurrer. Balcerv. Cornwall, 4011.1. 1 .

3i). If a bond has to be executed bytheplaintid, andisexecutedtothe
ddendant by a wrongname, the latter has his remedy, and may describe it as

' . tr;  may show that he was the party intended. Marga» v.

$1. No averment of notice to the defendant is requisite in the complaint

wherednemattersassignedasbreacheslieas much in the knowledge of the
one as of the other. People v. Edwards, 9 Cal. 286.

. A complaint. in an action upon statutory undertaking, which contains
no other desaiplion of the instrument than an allegation that it corresponds
with the provisions of a certain section of the Practice Act, is defective. The
defect. however, being of form rather than of substance, objection to it must
be taken by demurrer to the complaint. Hills v. Gleason, 21 Cal. 274.

323. Appeal bond.—An averment in the com laint in a suit on an appeal
bond. that execution had been issued on the judgment and returned unsatisded, is unnecessary. The non-payment of the udgment can be shown without issuing an execution. Tissot and Wife v. ling, 9 Cal. 278.

824. Attachment.-—In suit on a statutory undertaking, given to release
attached, and reciting the fact of a levy of the writ, the complaint

not aver or set out the facts which authorized the  _of the attach-.
meat. The recital of the levy esto defendants from denying it, and the
levy is iglugéoenagvithout averment 0 the previous proceedings. McMillan v.
325. Where defendant in attachment ap lies to the Court, under sections
one hundred and thirty-six and one hundred and thirty-seven of the Practice
Act. for a discharge of the attachment, and an undertaking is executed b D.
l R, reci ' the fact of the attachment, and that, “in consideration o the
premises, in consideration of the release from attachment of the property
attached as above mentioned,” they undertake to pay whatever judgment
plaintit may recover, eto., and the Court makes an order dischar the 
and releasing the property: Held,insuitagainst thesuretieson candorhkindg, that the complaint need not aver that the propertywas actually released
and elivered to the defendant; that as the consideration for the undertaking

was the release of the property, and as the complaint avers such release in
consequence and in consideration of the unde , by order of the Court,
which is set out, the actual release and re-delivery the progrty to defendcut is immaterial, the plaintifff ha ' no claim on it after e undertaking
was given and the order of release in e. Id.

326. In an action on a bond given to release roperty from attachment, the
complaint should state that the propertv was re eased upon the execution and
delivery of the bond. To charge the obligors, it is necessary to state the consideration of the ands ' ; and a more reference to thecondition of the
bond itself, wherein such re case is stated as a consideration, is insumcient.
Palmer v. Melvin, 6 Cal. 651.

327. In an action on an undertaking executed to release property horn
attachment, the com ' t should allege that the roperty attached was
Belaleagtadb upon the very of the undertaking.  v. Blattau, 2

328. Injunction bond.—In the action against the sureties on an in'uncta'on
bond, the condition of which is, that the plaintiffs in the suit for w m the
aureties undertook should pay all damages and costs that should be awarded
against the plaintiil‘ by virtue of the issuing of said injunction by any competent Court, and the complaint did not aver that any damages had been
awarded Cgclgéothst such complaint is fatally defective. Ihrpcy v. Shiite»ber , 1 . .

3922;. A sheriil‘ had in his hands mone belonging to L., which he had collected on an execution in favor of L. an D., and against 8. W. and 0. commenced an action against 11., L. and others, to enjoin M. from paying the
money to L., and procured a pre ' ' injunction, which was served on M.
alone, but L. a peared in the action an defended. The injunction bond ran
to all the defen ts. Held, that L. could maintain an action for damages on
the injunction bond. Lolly v. Wise, 28 Cal. 5-10. See post, $115.

330. Omcial bond.—-An action on the omcial bond of a constable lies primarily upon breach of the condition of the bond, whether the injury for
which suit is brought be a trespass or not, the result of the nonfeasance cs
misfeasance of the officer. Van Pelt v. Littler, 14 Cal. 194.

331. An averment in a complaint on a county treasurer’s omcisl bond» that
he received money belonging to the county and retains it, and refuses to
deliver it to his successor in office, is a sumcient averment of a breach of it
conditions. Mendocino County 1. Morris, 39 Cal. 145.

332. In an action on an omcial bond of a county treasurer, if the complaint
avers onlyabreach byafailureof the treasurer to keep the moneymthe
county safe, and byes withdrawal of the same and conversion to his own use,
a recovery cannot had for-a failure of the treasurer to pay into the treasury
his commissions retained on payments made to the State. Sacramento Oounty

v. Bird, 31 Cal. 66.
333. If the complaint on an omcial bond avers the due execution of the

same by both nncipal and sureties, and the answer takes issue on the aver»ment, and ver ‘ct and ju ent are for lplaintim the jud cut will not be
disturbed on atp upon e judgment ro on the und at what
tobeacopyo ebond-annexedtothecom laint oesnot contain ngnlé
ture of the Mesdocinocbu v. or-ris, 32 Cal. 146.

334. Ifthereisadefectinanomcial ndby the failureofthe principalto
place a seal opposite his name, the defect will not defeat a recovery thereon
as against the sureties, if the defect is suggested in the complaint. Bewafl|¢1l‘O Cbltflty Y. Bifd, 31  68.

335. Acomplaintinan action againstasher-if and his suretlesforan alijeged trespass of the sheril, which avers that the other defendsntsthan the
Qheriif ate the securities on hisomcial bond, does not state a cause of: aoHon
ggainst the sheriff onthehcnd-. Ghrardelliv. Bowland, 33Cal. 585. Beepoi

‘. 40, No. 48, 50.
336, Rpplevin. bond<—L complaint, upon. an  given 

se&on one hundred and two of the Practice Act, which refers only to the
section, without setting forth the material portions of the undertaking, is inIumcient. Mid: v. Gleason, Oct. 1861.

337. But the objection should be taken by demurrer, it being a defect rather
of form than of substance. Id.

358. In an action ' the sureties on an undertaking given in a replevin
unit, where there has a trial and judgment in the repleviii suit, the complaint does not state farts sumcient to constitute a cause of action, unless it
aver that the value of the roperty was found by the jury, and that an alternative judgment was ren ered, as cprovided in section two hundred of the
Practice Act. Clary v. Rolland, 24 al. 147. See further post, t 102, note.

339. Rocognizance.—Beco ' nce in the form prescribed in section five
hundred and twenty-three of e Criminal Practice Act, I-1ittel1's Dig., art.
2110. The com laint alleged substantially that G. was indicted for '
and arrested, an that then defendant executed the recognizance whic is set
out; that G. appeared at the first term of the Court thereafter and plead not
guilty, and case continued to next term, at which time, the case being called

or trial, G. did not a ear, and the defendants, though “ called,” did not
produce his body; that e Court then made an order forfeiting the ream
nnce, and that defendants did not produce the body of G. before the
adjournment of the Court. Held. on demurrer, that the complaint states a
cause of action; that the objection that ' being a misdemeanor, G.
could ap by attorney, cannot avail, because ere is nothin to show that
he of!’ so to appear, even assuming that such matter could here set u
igaicrjt gr’: judgment of forfeiture in the Court of Sessions. People v. Snail‘:

340.’; com laintin a recognizance ins criminal case should am that the
mnewasnl inorbecameamatter of recordinthe Court whereit wastetunable. Mendocino County v. Lamar, 30 Cal. 627.

311. Water, diversion o£-—-In an action of damages for diverting the
water of a river from plaintifff's mill, an averment in the complaint of
possession of the land and mill is sufficient against a ti-espasser, without
 . ' ‘p or ‘prior ap ropriation of the water. McDonald
1 v. Bear River and ubum ater and Mining 00., 13 Cal. 220.

342. It is not necessary that the complaint should further allege an a pro 0l;2§f the water, or an ownership thereof. Leighct 0'0. v. Ind. Ditc 00.,

83. A complaint alleging that plaintiffs are the owners, and in ssession
cfcerta.inminingclaimsonacertai'nstream,andareentitled to t e natural
Iow of the waters of the stream, which had been diverted to their injury by
defendants, sets forth a sumcient cause of action. It is not necessary that
the complaint should further allege an appropriation of the water, or an
ownership thereof. Id.

344. In an action to recover damages for the diversion of the water of a
stream from plaintiffs mills, an averment as to the precise uantity of water

uiredfor the use of the mills, and to which plaintin‘ caimed to be en3.1. is an immaterial averment; and a recovery of damages would not
establish plaintiffs right to the exact quantity of water claimed, so as to be
res judicata in a subse uent suit. McDonald v. Bear River and Auburn Water
and lining 00., 15 . 145.

345. The union, in one count of a complaint, of an allegation, that defendants " have wrongfully built dams and ilumes across said Mormon creek
’ ’ ' so as to turn the water of said creek out of its natural channel," eto.,
and mus «Evert it from plaintifff, with an alle tion that defendants “have
constructed gates, etc., in their said dams and es, which they " " * hoist
for the purpose of clearing out said dams and flames of slum. stone and
gavel," the accumulation of which renders the water useless to plaintifff, does
not make the complaint demurrable, on the ground that it unites several disEncteausea of action in one count. Gale 1. Tuolumne Water 00., 14 Cal. 25.

346. The gravamen of the action is the diversion of the water, and the fact
act the diversion is accomplished by different means, is not important enough

require several counts. Id

‘be ted, such relief as the case stated in the

347. Subdivision third~—Prayer for rc11e£—Objections to the prayer of
a complaint cannot be taken by demurrer. If the game relief asked cannot
authorizes may be had
un er the clause in the prayer for general relief, and even in the absence of
such clause, where an answer is filed. Rollins v. Forbes and Wife, 10 Cal. 299.
348. Although the prayer of a bill be inartincially framed, the Court will,
under the eneral pra er for relief, disregard mistakes, and zgrant such relief
as will co orm with the bill. Truebody v. Jacobson, 2 Cal. 9.

349. Where a party, in his notice of motion served on the adverse party,
asks for a specific re ief, or for such other or further order as may be just,
the Court may afford any relief compatible with the facts of the case pnesented. The Peo le v. Turner, 1 Cal. 152. ‘

350. When tre le dama es are given b a statute, the demand for such

es must be express y inserted in e declaration, which must either

recite the statute, or conclude to the damages of the plaintih” against the form
of the statute. Chipman v. Emeric, 5 Cal. 39.

351. Where a suit is brought to test the question as to the priority of apropriation of water, a pra er for an injunction to revent further inj rs
grgper. Marius v. Biclcnellf 10 Cal. 217. P m7
2. Where a suit is brought to test the question as to the priority of appropriation of water, a pra er for an injunction, to prevent future injury, is
proper. Marius v. Biclcnelz 10 Cal. 217.
308. A complaint which sets out a cause of action in trexsgass, and concludes with a prayer for an injunction, is correct. Gates v. f, 7 Cal. 125.
See further, as to the importance of the prayer, 9 147 post, note.

§ 40. When defendant may demur.

The defendant may demur to the complaint within the time
required in the summons to answer, when it appears upon
the face thereof, either, a

let, That the Court has no jurisdiction of the person of
the defendant, or the subject of the action ; or,

2d, That the plaintifff has not legal capacity to sue ; or,

3d, That there is another action pending between the same
parties for the same cause ; or,

4th, That there is a defect or misjoinder of parties plaintifff or defendant ; or,

5th, That several causes of action have been improperly
united ; or, ‘

6th, That the complaint does not state facts suilicient to
constitute a cause of action ; or,

7th, That the complaint is ambiguous, unintelligible, or
uncertain.

lmended 1859, 139. N. Y. Code, 9 144; Abb. Forms, No. 160, 709-715.

1. First subdivision.-A demurrer on the ground “ that the Court has no
jurisdiction either of the persons of the defendants or of the subject of the
action,” and “ that the com laint does not state facts sumcient to constitute
a cause of action," is su ciently e licit, under the rule of construction
ado ted by the Courts of this State. issen v. Halleclc, 6 Cal. 386 ; Willis 17.
Filrggs 24 Cal. 4:91.

2. emurrer to the jurisdiction of a Court of general jurisdiction list! only

where the want of jurisdiction pears amrmatively on the face of the com‘ t. Otherwise, of Courts of ' ‘ted and cial jurisdiction—-there, every
essential to confer jurisdiction must be eged. Doll v. Feller, 16 Cal. 432.

3. Second subdivision.—A county has a legal capacity to sue. Placer
Couufy v. Asian, 8 Cal. 305.

4. The fact that a vessel, lost while being towed out to sea, is insured, does
not divest the owner of the right of action for her loss, and his recovery will
bar another action for the same cause, and, thereforee, the defendant cannot
raise the objection that the action is not brought by the real party in interest.
White v. Maryann, 6 Cal. 462.

5. Third subdivlsion.—PlaintiE cannot, after a lea in abatement of the
mdency of a prior suit, avoid the efect of the p ea by discontinuin the

action which was pending at the time of the plea. 0’0onnor v. lalae,
Jan. T. 1865.

6. In an action to quiet plainti8's title to land, alleged to be clouded
defendants 'ving out that the title is in themselves and not in plain ' ,
an action 0 ejectment pending, in which the defendant does not ask for
amrmative relief, is not available as a defense. Ayree v. Bensley, 32 Cal. 620.

7. Fourth subdivision.—Where a defect of parties is apparent upon the
face of the complaint, the objection must be taken b demurrer, or the same
willbe waived. Dunn v. Tour, 10 Cal. 167 ; Mott v. milk, 16 Id. 557 ; Sam
son v. Slwefer, 3 Id. 202 ; Warner v. Wilson, 4 Id. 313 ; Beard v. Know, 5 d.
257; Tissot v. Throclcmorton, 6 Id. 473; McKeem v. .McGarvey, 6 Id. 498;
Burroughs v. Lott, 19 Cal. 125; Barber at al. v. Reynolds, Oct. T. 1867.

8. Where the defendants demurred to a complaint for a misjoinder of ties plaintifff, and the Court overruled the demurrer, and the laintids t en
moved to amend the com laint b striking out the names 0 the plaintiffs
thus alleged to be improper y join , and the defendants resisted successfully
such motion: Held, that such action on the part of defendants was a waiver
1135 ac; ogiifzaction of misjoinder raised by their demurrer. Summers v. Farish,

9. The objection that a wife is impro rly oined with the husband as party
plaintiff should be taken advantage by emurrer, and comes too late on
appeal. Tissol v. Throclcmorlon, 6 Cal. 471.

10. An action brought by husband and wife against a steamer for breach
of a contract to carry the wife to New York via Nicaragua, the alleged breach
consisting in carrying the wife to Panama, and causing her detention there,
and consequent illness, and other injuries, though based on a contract, sounds
in tort, and the wife is a pro r and necessary party plaintifff. Warner and
Wife v. Steamer Uncle Sam, 9 al. 697.

11. Where the defendant, as sherif, collects money on an attachment more
than sumcient to satisfy the attaching creditor, and, after the expiration of his
term of office, another attaching creditor attaches the surplus, and seeks to
make the ex-sherif liable therefore on his omcial bond: Held, that the demurrer to the complaint was properly sustained, as there was no relation between
the defendant and plaintiff to render defendant omcially liable. Graham v.
Endicolt, 7 Cal. 144.

12. A demurrer to a complaint on the ground “ that the complaint does not
state facts sullicient to constitute a cause of action," and which then specihes
that the complaint shows no joint cause of action in the plaintih, and that it
greys for a judgment in favor of three plaintins for an injury done to one,

a demurrer for misjoinder of parties. Summers v. Farish, 10 Cal. 347.

13. Where the parties joined as plaintins are all interested in the rinci al
question raised in the bill, and the issues tendered are simple, an a m tiplieity of suits may be avoided, a demurrer for multifariousness will not be
sustained People v. Hat-rill, 26 Cal. 360.

14. A misjoinder of parties plaintifff must be objected to by demurrer or
answer. and cannot, in the absence of such objection, be made a ground for
nonsuit' such of the laintiffs as show themselves entitled to recover.
Rowe v. ’ uppi, 21 al. 633. See further post, § 48, note No. 172.

15. Fifth aubdivhion.——Suit on a recognizance given before a Justice for

we appearance of defendant 8. to answer a criminal charge. The complaint,
after setting out the cause of action on the recognizance, avers that 8., to
secure his sureties, executed a trust deed to T. of certain warrants and money.
This deed rovides that in case the recognizance be forfeited, and the sureties
become lia le thereon, the trustee is to a ply the property to the payment, so
far as it will go, of the recognizance. e complaint asks to have this property so applied. Held, that a demurrer for misjoinder of causes of action lies;
that the trust deed has nothing to do with the liabilities of the sureties.
People v. Slcidmdre, 17 Cal. 260.

16. If several causes of action are improperly united in the same action,
the objection must be taken either by demurrer or answer, or it will be deemed
to have been waived. Macondray v. Simmons, 1 Cal. 393; 10 Id. 217.

17. The plaintifff having a claim against A., brought suit against him to
enforce the claim, and, in the same action, sought to set aside a conveyance
of real estate from A. to B. on the ground that it was executed in fraud of the
creditors of A., and made B. a party to the suit: Held, there having been no
objection taken, either by demurrer or answer, on the ground of an improper
joinder of several causes of action, that the plaintiff was entitled to contest
t1.h8a;ra:l3i$l3ity of the conveyance from A. to B. Macondray v. Simmons,

18. Objections to the misjoinder of causes of action should be taken 61?
demurrer or answer, or the ‘are deemed waived. J aclcs v. Cooke, 6 Cal. 1 ;
Marius v. Biclcnell, 10 Cal. 17; Id. 237; Gates v. Kief, 7 Cal. 124.

19. A bill for an account is the proper remedy for the settlement of the
proceeds of a joint adventure, where, in consideration of outnt and advances
made by plaintiff, the defendant agreed to account for and ay over a proportion of the proceeds of his labor and speculations of every 'nd for a certain
mriod of time, although the parties may not have been technically partners.

rr v. Redman, 6 Cal. 574.
20. Nor is it a misjoinder of causes of action to demand, in the same action,

that defendant account for and refund a proportion of the outfit and advances
made by plaintid, as agreed in the same contract. Id.

21. The union, in one count of a complaint, of an alle tion that defendants “ have wrongfully built dams and flumes across said ormon creek, ' "
so as to turn the waters of said creek out of its natural channel,” etc., and
thus divert it from laintin’, with an allegation that defendants have wrongfull built dams and) flumes, which they hoist for the purpose of clearing out
sai dams and fiumes of slum, stone and gravel, the accumulation of which
renders the water useless to plaintiff, does not make the complaint demurrable
on the ground that it unites several distinct causes of action in one count.
Gale v. Tuolumne Water 00., 14 Cal. 28.

22. A complaint which joins an action of “ re clausum fregit,"

' tment, and prayer for relief in chancery, will he d bad on demurrer.
gligcsustain such a complaint would be subversive of all the rules of pleading.

Bigelow v. Cove, 7 Cal. 133.
23. This Court will not resort to the rules of construction to determine the

species of relief demanded. Id.

24. Where the com ' t in an action of trespass asks, also, for the equitable interposition of e Court, if the law and uity are inseparably mixed
togegther, it would be demurrable. Gates v. Kie , Cal. 124.

. A demurrer to a com hint on the oun that it seeks a remedy at law,
and also seeks for e uitab e relief, is b . Gates v. Kief, 7 Cal. 125; Maria:
v. Biclcnell, 10 Cal. 24; Weaver v. Conger, Id. 237; ROUIIB v. Forbes, Id. 300.

26. There is no misjoinder of actions in an action against husband and wife
to foreclose a mortgage executed by husband and wife to secure a note given
by the husband alone, where the prayer of the complaint was for judgment
against the husband, and a decree inst the husband and wife for a sale of
the premises. Rollins v. Forbes, 10% 299. See further, post, $64.

27. Sixth subdivlsion.—'l‘he sixth ground of demurrer, as specified in section forty of the Practice Act. “that the complaint does not state facts sufllcient
to constitute a cause of action,” is confined to those cases in which no cause of

action at all. as against the defendants, arises from the complaint. Summers v.
Iiirrisk. 10 Cal. 347.

28. A demurrer to the complaint on the ground that it does not state facts
snilicient to constitute a cause of action, is suiiicient, without a specification of
the reason why it does not state such facts, unless the defense relied on is one
which, to be made available, must be specially pleaded. Kent v. Snyder, 30

(XL 666.
29. Where a complaint, though defective, states facts sufficient to constitute a

cause of action. the objection to it should be taken by demurrer. Greenfield v.

Steamer Gunaell. 6 Cal. 67.
30. To entitle the plaintid’ to subject the assets of an absent debtor to the

payment of his claim, he must show that he is without a remedy at law. and if
the bill discloses such remedy at law, it will be dismised upon demurrer. Impton v. Lupton. 3 Cal. 120.

31. When the declaration states a condition precedent, and fails to aver per!
formance. the defect must be taken advantage of by demurrer in the Court
helow. It is too late to urge such defect after verdict. Happe v. Stout, 2 Cal.

0.

32. Where a bill disclosed that the subject matter had been liti ted between
the mme parties in a prior suit, and that in the said suit the pizintid‘ in this
suit had set up the same equity which he claims by this bill, the bill was held
bad on demurrer, and was ordered to be dismissed. 3 Cal. 327.

33. A defect which will defeat the plaintifffs present right to recover. in whole
or in part, is a good ground of demurrer. Hentsch v. Porter, 10 Cal. 555.

34. An omission to allege delivery in a suit on a bond can be taken advantage of only on demurrer, or the defect is cured by a verdict. Garcia v. Satrustegui, 4 Cal. 244.

35. A complaint for money had and received, which fails to allege a demand,
is bad on demurrer. Greenfield v. Steamer Gunnell, 6 Cal. 68.

36. The failure of the plaintifff to allege in his complaint, in an action upon
a claim against an estate, its presentation to and rejection by the administrator,
is an objection that the complaint does not state facts sudicient to constitute a
cause of action. Ellissen v. Halleclc, 6 Cal. 393; Falkner v. Folsom, Id. 412;
Hentsch v. Porter, 10 Id. 558.

37. [These cases are overruled by Flzlloa v. Butler, 21 Cal. 24; and the correctness of the latter decision is doubted by the case of Ellis v. Polhemus. 27
Cal. 354. The case of Ellison v. Halleclc, 6 Cal. 393, is either discussed or referred to in the following cases: 6 Cal. 412; 7 Cal. 124; 9 Cal. 501; 10 Cal,
30; 24 Cal. 498.]

38. The statute provides that no person shall sue a county, unless the claim
has been first presented to the Board of Supervisors, and been by them rejected;
this fact must appear in the complaint, or it is demurrable. J{cC'ann v. Sierra

County, 7 Cal. 123.

39. Plaintiffs owned certain mining claims and quartz lode on the banks of a
stream above the mill and dam of defendant. Defendant commenced raising
his dam two feet higher. Plaintiff brought suit against defendant, alleging that
the addition of two feet to defendant’s dam was a nuisance. and would back
the water on plaintifff's claims, and thus prevent them from workin them, and
would also destroy their water privilege for a quartz mill. which t ey intended
to construct. Held, that the action was premature. and that the demurrer to
the complaint, on the ground that the complaint did not state facts sumclent to
constitute a cause of action, was properly sustained. Harvey v. Chilton, 11

Cal. 114.
40. In an action on an undertaking executed to release property ftom attachment. the complaint should allege that the property attached was released upon
the delivery of the undertaking. Williamson v. Blattan. 9 Cal. 600.

4]. A failure to do so is fatal. and the defect may be taken advantage of by
demurrer, on the ground that the complaint does not state facts snmaient to

constitute a cause of action. Id.

42. Where the complaint alleged that in September, 1849. plaintid settled on
I tract of land. “ the same being public land of the United States ;” that subsequently B., a foreigner, built a house and occupied a portion of the tract, and

injunction, and damages for the occupation: Held, that the complaint does not
st7a1te facts sunicient to constitute a cause of action. 0’0o1mer v. Corbett, 3 Cal.
3 .

43. The statute does not require an allegation in the complaint of possession.
An averment that the premises are unlawfully withheld from plaintin‘ is somewhat general. yet not insufficient, in a J ustice’s Court, except upon demurrer.
Cronise v. Carghill, 4 Cal. 122.

44. In an action to recover damages, by the owner of a licensed ferry, against
a party alleged to have run a ferry within the limits prohibited by law, it was
held that the complaint should have alleged that defendant ran his ferry for a
fee or reward, or the romise or expectation of it, or that he ran it for other
than his own personal) use or that of his family; and the omission of those
allegations was fatal. Hanson v. Webb, 3 Cal. 237.

45. Where the payment of a promissory note is, by agreement of parties, made
conditional upon the payment by the payee of a certain debt of the payor. such
payment is a condition precedent to plaintifffs right to recover on the note. and
must be averred in the complaint to have been made, or it is demurrable.
Rogers v. Cod , 8 Cal. 324.

46. A comp aint, alleging that the defendants sold to plaintifffs a certain share
of fruit growing in an orchard, and after the sale executed a warrantee that the
share of plaintifffs should be at their disposal, and further alleging a demand for
the same, and the refusal of the defendant to deliver, is demurrable, as it should
have contained an assignment of the breach of the contract or guaranty. Dap
bovich v. Emeric, 7 Cal. 109.

47. Objections to the prayer of the complaint cannot be taken by demurrer.
Rollins v. Forbes, 10 Cal. 299.

48. Seventh snbd1vision.—If the complaint on an omcial bond in a suit
against the principal and his sureties, and a copy of the bond is annexed to the
complaint, which does not contain the signature of the principal, the complaint
is good, unless demurred to specially for being ambiguous in this respect.

Mendocino County v. Morris, 32 Cal. 145.
49. A complaintin ejectment which avers that, on a day named. “ the plaintifff

was, and ever since has been, and still is, the owner in fee simple. seized and
possessed,” etc.; “ that, on a day thereafter named, and while the plaintifff was
so the owner in fee simple, seized and possessed. defendanm entered and ousted
him, and from thence hitherto have and still do withhold the same.” etc., is
good, unless demurred to on the ground that it is ambiguous, unintelligible and
uncertain. Brown v. Martin et al., 25 Cal. 88.

50. A complaint in an action on the bond given by a tax collector, as collector of taxes of Yuba county, is not ambiguous and uncertain because it
does not aver that any of the money sued for was collected by the tax collect5o21(-S on account of foreign miners’ licenses. People v. Love et als., 25 Cal.

51. A demurrer to a complaint for ambiguity and uncertainty should point
out sgeciall in what the ambiguity or uncertainty consists, or it will be disregar ed Plane v. Klumploe, 29 Cal. 156.

52. Demurrer to whole complaint, where bad.——A demurrer to the
whole declaration, when some of the counts are ood, should be overruled.
'P‘l)7ItI'z(t11Zng23\g. Heslep. 4 Cal., 327; Young v. Pierson, Cal. £48; Weaver v. Conger,
1 . .

53_. If a complaint contains several counts, and the defendant demur to

*the'whole complaint, the demurrer should be overruled if there is one good

count in the complaint, although the other counts may be bad. Stoddard v.
Treadwell, 26 Cal., 294.

54. If a demurrer is to the whole bill, and is good as to a part, but bad as
to part, it should be overruled. People v. Mon-ill, 26 Cal. 360.

55. Where the complaint contains two counts, and there is a demurrer to
one count onl , and the demurrer is sustained, the is entitled to
%t‘1)dg1;e119t:2 on e other count, if no answer has been ed. Barber v. Cazalis,

56. Deunurrer, what it admit: —A demurrer admits the truth of such facts
as are is<uable and well pleaded; but it does not admit the conclusions which
counsel may choose to draw therefrom, although they ma be stated in the
corn laint. Branlzam at al. v. Mayor and Common Councily of San Jose ct ala,
2-4 602. Tuolumne Water Co. v. Chapman, 8 Cal. 392.

57. Demurrer, when waived.—Where a demurrer to the complaint is put
in and overruled, and the defendant then answers, the answer is a waiver of
the demurrer. De Boom v. Priestly, 1 Cal. 206.

58. Demurrer, should not state faot:.—A statement of facts in a demurrer
is not admissible. The only office of a demurrer is, to raise issues of law
iépoinage facts stated in the pleading demurred to. Cook v. De La Guerra, 24

69. Danurrer,niustspeoify thegroundsof objection 941.

60. Dernurrer. when it will not 1ie.—A declaration setting forth that
plaintiff had purchased a quantity of goods from W. J: P., “then and there
acting as agent of the defendant,” is only another form of declaring that he
had purchased from the defendant, and is sudiciently certain to prevent an

misapprehension of its meaning, and is good on demurrer. Cochran v. 0
man, 3 Cal. 245.

61. In an action for the breach of a contract, the want of any averment of
special damage, cannot be reached by demurrer. Such averment is only necessary where e right of action itself depends upon the special injury received. For the breach of contract an action lies, though no actual damage
be sustained. McCa v. Beach, 10 Cal. 461.

62. It is no ground 0 demurrer to a complaint that the christian name of
one of the plaintifffs does not appear. Nelson ct Doblc v. Highland, 13 Cal. 74.

63. Objections to a declaration, when they arise from matters of form, are
not the subject of a demurrer. Ottero v. Ballard, 3 Cal. 188.

64. Objections to the prayer of a complaint cannot be taken by demurrer.
If the specific relief asked cannot be granted, such relief as the case stated in
the bill authorizes ma be had under the clause in the prayer for general relief, and even in the a nce of such clause when an answer is filed. Rollins
v. Forbes and Wife, 10 Cal. 299.

65. Where a complaint, nled to compel a partnership account, contained
sumcient to call upon defendants for an account as to a particular branch of
their business, but was in other ts inartiilcially drawn and insudicient,
and a demurrer was put in to the w ole com laint: Held, that the demurrer
must be overruled. Young v. Pearson, 1 C . 448.

66. In a suit by a physician against a county on a contract for his services
for one year as examining physician of the hospital, the objection that he is
not a graduate of a legally constituted medical institute, if good at all, cannot be taken by demurrer, unless the demurrer distinctly present the objection. Mcbanid v. Yuba County, 14 Cal. 444.

67. Wliereabillall sag ltrust, itseemsthatitmust be denied; and
a general demurrer ' not e. Peralta v. Castro, 6 Cal. 354.

68. What is or not a demurror.—An all tion in an answer that the debt
sued for, if due at all, is due to plaintifff an another, as ers, cannot be
treated as a demurrer. Andrew v. Molcelumne Hill Co., 7 al. 330.

69. Statute of Limitatlons.—When it appears upon the face of a bill in
equit that the suit is barred by lapse of time, the defendant may demur.
Bub v. Tinncy, 9 Cal. 423.

70. In an action for relief on the ound of fraud, the fraud is the substantive cause of action, and not the 'scovery. If, thereforee, the plaintifff alleges the fraud to have been committed more than three years before the commencement of his action, his cause of action is barred, and his complaint is
demurrable. Id.

71. Whereacomplaint showsprima facts upon the facts stated that the
claim or debt upon which suit is brought is barred by the Statute of Limitations, the defendant may take advantage of the defect by demurrer. But

where the complaint does not directly show prima facie a case for the operation of the statute, a demurrer cannot be sustained on this nnd. This in
the chancery rule, under the English system, and as our ple 'ngs ap roximate
more nearl to the chance than the common law form, we have opted the

former. 1-ringer v. War 12 Cal. 311.
72. Although demurrer lies when the facts stated in the com ' t show the

action to be barred by the Statute of Limitations, the bar of statute must
clearly appear. Ord v. De La Guerra, 18 Cal. 67.

73. The defense of the Statute of Limitations is a rsonal privilege of
the debtor, which he ma assert or waive at his option; ut it must be set up
in some form, either by emurrer or answer, or it will be deemed to have been

waived. Grattan v. Wiggim, 23 Cal. 16.
74. It should be distinctl stated in the demurrer. Brown v. Lizrtin, 25 Cal.

89; Farwell v. Jackson, 28 al. 106.
75. Under our system the rule is the same in law and equi ; and if it appear u n the face of the complaint that the action is barr , and no facts
are eged taking the demand from the operation of the statute, the complaint is defective and demurrer lies. Smith v. Richmond, 19 Cal. 476.

76. If the demand be in truth barred, but the fact does not apsear upon
the face of the complaint, the defense must be made in answer. .

77. Genorally.~—When a demurrer is general to a complaint, Courts are
lllftclillgg to notice defects which are mere matter of form. Phelps v. Owens,
78.  objection that securities sued on are not promissory notes must be
taken advan e of on demurrer, and a demurrer having been nled without
 out ' defect, it must be considered waived. Powell v. Ross, 4

79. If every fact essential to the claim or defense be not stated, the adverse
party may demur; and if an fact not essential to the claim or defense—in
other words, any except  le facts-—be stated, the adverse may move
to strike out the unessential parts. Green v. Palmer, 15 Cal. 11.

80. There are six causes for which a demurrer may be interposed, under
section forty of the Code (now seven causes), and unless a ground of demurrer be included under one or more of such causes, it cannot be sustained.

Hentsch v. Porter, 10 Cal. 555.
81. A defect which will defeat the £lainti1l"s present right to recover, in
whole or in part, is a good ground of murrcr. Id.

82. Objections to complaint, when deemed waived.-—I«£de § 45.

83. Objections not appearing on the face of the complaint. to be
taken by answer. § 44.

§ 41. Demurrer must specify grounds of objection.

The demurrer shall distinctly specify the grounds upon
which any of the objections to the complaint are taken.
Unless it do so, it may be disregarded.

N. Y. Code, § 145.

1.  demurrer to the complaint for any reason except an objection to the
jurisdiction of the Court, or that the complaint does not state facts sumcient
to constitute a cause of action, must distinctly specify the grounds upon
gdhieléezny of the objections to the complaint are taken. Kent v. Snyder, 30

§ 42. Demurrer and answer.

The defendant may demur to the whole complaint, or to
one or more of several causes of action stated therein, and

answer the residue; or may demur and answer at the same
time.

hT.Y.Code§l51. '
1. Anissueof lawandfactshould not be mixed inanansyer. Broohev.

DoIs§au,32Cal.208.
2. Thedefendant may demur and answer at the same timetothe entire

complaint, and also to each cause ofaetion stated therein. P¢oplev.HeQellagalcal. 191.

3. Striking out answer for failure to pay demurrer fee.——If the defondant nles his answer at the same time he does his demurrer, the Court,
after overruling the demurrer, has no ri ht to strike out an answer which
raises a defense because the defendant f s to pm the plaintiff twenty doll.ars.requiredbya ruleof Court to be paid for e privilege of answering
when a demurrer is overruled. Id.

§ 43., Amended complaint, how jiled and served.

If the complaint be amended, a copy of the amendments
shall be filed, or the Court may in its discretion require the
complaint as amended to be filed, and a copy of the amendments shall be served upon every defendant to be affected
thereby, or upon his attorney, if he has appeared by attorney;
the defendant shall answer in such time as may be ordered
by the Court, and judgment by default may be entered upon
failure to answer, as in other cases.

‘Amended 1854, 85; 1855, 196. See Bu1esXV, XXX,XXIV, SanFrancisoo
eeunty.

1. When a demurrer is overruled with leave to answer, it is not necessary
that the order nx the time within which the answer must be med. The Court
has power to nx such time for answering as it may deem proper; but where
notimeisdxed, the defendantshouldanswerwithin thesametimeasincase

of service of a y of the ' ' complaint. People v. Rains, 23 Cal. 128.
2. When the(d.)e§i'endant is ed time to answer until the laintiif elects

enwhich eountof the com£ainthewill totrial, thep ' ' shouldserve

ea»)oop cifgtzhecomplaintwi thenoticeo a hiselection. Wilsoav.0lcavelaad.
5 44. Olgicctabn not appearing on complaint. '
When any of the matters enumerated in section forty do

not appear upon the face of the complaint, the objection may

be taken by answer.
N. Y. Code, § 147.

§ 45. Objections, when deemed waived.

If no such objection be taken, either by demurrer or answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have waived the same,
excepting only the objection to the jurisdiction of the Court,
and the objection that the complaint does not state facts sailicient to constitute a cause of action.

N. Y. Code, § 148.

1. The objection that there is a defect of parties to the complaint must be

taken by demurrer or answer, or it will be deemed to have been waived; but
the defendant ma object on the trial, if the proof does not sustain laintif '3
allegations, as to ' right of action. Alvarez v. Brannon, 7 Cal. .

2. Where an admimstrator does not set up his privileges by demurrer or
answer, but sufers judgment to go by default, it is a confession that he is
properl sued. Hentsch v. Porter, 10 Cal. 555. ‘

3. ereapartysets up matterinhisanswernotrecognizedbylawasa.
defense to the action, while the objection may be taken by emurrer, it is not
waived b failure to demur, but may be taken advantage of at any timeMcD v. Jlaguirc, April T. 1868.

§ 46. ‘Answer, what to contain.

The answer of the defendant shall contain :

Fz'rst—If the complaint be verified, a specific denial to
each allegation of the complaint controverted by the defendant, or a denial thereof according to his information and
belief; if the complaint be not verified, then a general denial
to each of said allegations ; but a general denial shall only

put in issue the material and express allegations of the complaint.

Second——A. statement of matter in avoidance, a counter
claim donstituting a defense, or the subject matter of cross
complaint, which may entitle a defendant to relief against
the plaintifff alone, or against the plaintifff and a co-defendant.

‘Amended 1854, 85; 1860, 278; 1862, 562; 1866, 702; see past, § 50,
65; Bancroft’s Forms, No. 482; Abb. Forms, Nos. 152-158, 717-733.

1. First subdivision-—speci£o denials.—-The rules of pleading, both
under the old equi system and under our present system, are intended to
revent evasion, an to require a denial of every specific averment in a sworn
ill, in substance and in spirit, and not merely a denial of its literal tru h ; and
whenever the defendant fails to make such denial, he admits the averment.
Blanlcman v. Vallqio, 15 Cal. 638.

2. A s ecilic denial to each allegation of a complaint is a separate denial,
a plicab e only to the particular allegation controverted. San Francisco Gas

0. v. The City, 9 Cal., 453.

3. The object of the Code was to narrow the proof upon the trial, and to accomplish this end, the plaintifff was allowed to verify his complaint, and thus
compel the defendant to deny specillcally each separate allegation. Id.

4. An answer to a verified complaint, which undertakes to deny material
alle ations, should contain a specific denial to each allegation controverted.
F‘ v. Redington, 31 Cal. 185.

5. General denials.—In a case of malicious osecution, where the defendants filed a general denial, and also averred t the had nothing to do
with the rosecution, ex as witnesses, plaintifff £1 a replication '
issue on ' averment. old, that if plaintin‘ chose to consider this a
defense, and join issue on it, defendants cannot complain; though, pro y,
this matter was ut in issue by the general denial, and the replication was
unnecessary. v. Domec, 18 Cal. 83.

6. Where the alleged fact is, from its nature, presumptively within the personal lmowl of the defendant, he cannot be permitted to answer on information an belief, but must answer in the form positive. And where,

from the nature of the fact all the bowl , if any, is p vely
oninformation, heianotboun toden positive , but only “aoco ' g to
his information and belief ;" but in suc case he must answer according to
ham his information and belief. The word “ belief," as used in the statute,

is to be taken in its ordinary sense, and means the actual conclusion of the
defendant drawn from information. Humphreys v. McCall, 9 Cal. 59.

7. Defendant can know what is his belief, and can thereforee state it. This
belief may be founded on the statement of others, not competent witnesses,
and not under oath, etc. Yet, if the defendant has formed a belief from this
source, he must state it. He cannot be the judge as to whether his informa60:: is legal testimony. Id.

8. The answer that the defendant, a municipal corporation, has no knowledge or information “in respect to the obligations of a count in a verided
complaint, and thereforee denies the same,” is insumcient. San Francisco Gas
Co. v. the City, 9 Cal. 453.

9. The statute imposes upon the defendant, if a natural person, and if a
corporanon, upon its odlcers and agents, the duty of acquiring the re uisite
knowledge or information respecting the matter alle ed in a verifl compg-.int, to enable them to answer in e roper form. I ; see Brown v. Scott,

Cal. 189, and authority then cited; h v. Redinglon, 31 Cal. 185.

10. In no case can the allegation of a verined complaint be controverted
by a denial of sumcient knowledge or information upon the subject to form a
belief. Curtis v. Richards ct Vantine, 9 Cal. 33.

11. Under the system of practice in this State, a eneral denial is e uivalent
to the general issue at common law, and such a p ea does not put in us the
plaintifffs title to one. White v. Moses, ll Cal. 69; Broolcc v. Chilton, 6 Cal.
640.

12. In an action under the thirteenth section of the act concerning forcible
entries and unlawful detainer, a verified “ general denial” is a sullicient denial
of a complaint duly verified. Suuivan v. Cary, 17 Cal. 85.
~ 13. Suit on a romissory note made by defendants. The complaint, not verlned, sets out e note, and avers assignment thereof by payee to plaintifff.
Answer, general denial. Held, that the answer does not admit. but denies the
as’ meat, and hence, plaintiff must prove it. and is not entitled to judgment
on t pleadings. Hastings v. Dollarhide, 18 Cal. 390.

14. General denial qualified. insumolent.—-A general denial of the averInents of a verilied complaint with the qualifications of, ‘- except as hereinafter

admitted,” is insullicient to put in issue any of its allegations. Lewinson v.
Sclnoartt, 22 Cal. 229.

15. Materal allegations only put in issue by a general or special denial. A denial, whether general or special, only puts in issue the allegations
of the complaint. The difference between a general and special denial in this
respect is only in the extent to which the allegations are traversed. Cotes v.

Boulsby, 21 Cal. 47.

16. Sumcient denial.-—Where the complaint averted a contract between
plsintif and the Board of Supervisors on behalf of the county, and the
answer admitted a contract between the laintiif and another on the one side,
and the county on the other, and averted) that this was the only contract made
by the coun in relation to the matter, and denied that any other was made

the of Supervisors: Held, that this denial was sumcient to put the
' as on proof of the contract. Mu hy v. Napa County, 20 Cal. 497.

17. If an answer, in response to an egation of the com laint, instead of
denying it in express terms, contains the averment that the efendant did not
committheactcharged, or that the facts all edto existdo not exist, these
avcrments of the answer traverse the matters §leged and are good denials of
the same. Hill v. Smith, 27 Cal. 479.

18. Allegations of matters of evidence in 9. pl ' are not issuable facts.
If the the answer puts in issue the ultimate facts r ting from the evidence,
it is a sumcient denial. Iloorc v. Murdock, 26 Cal. 524.

19. Adenial of thematerialallegations onlyissumcient. Racouitlatv.Rcnc,
820al.450. 8ee§50post,nots.

20. Conclusions of law, not to be denied.-If the answer merely denies
the conclusions of law resulting from the facts averred in the complaint, it is
insumcient to raise an issue, and the facts are deemed admitted. Nelson 7.
Murray, 23 Cal. 338.

21. A denial that the defendant became or was lswfull bound by a judgment
declared on. is onl a denial of a conclusion of law. eople v. Bupervimrs of
San Francisco, 27 l. 655.

22. The denial of any indebtedness, without a denial of any of the facts from
which that indebtedness follows. as a conclusion of law, raises no issue. Ourtis
v. Richards at al., 9 Cal. 33 ' Wells v. McPiIce, 21 Cal. 215.

23. So of an answer which states in general terms that an ordinance passed
by a municipal corporation, is illegal and void. Id. “Owner and bolder ”

conclusion of law. Wedderspoon v. Rogers, 32 Cal. 569. See § 39, Nos. £2-60,

24. Allegations anticipating a defense need not be denied.—-The complaint stated a cause of action for goods sold. and, in addition, with a view to
meet a probable defense of payment based upon the giving of certain notes by
defendant and a receipt in full by plaintifff, stated the making of the notes and
receipt, and alleged facts attending the transaction, which. if true, avoided its
elect as pa cut by reason of ll-and and misrepresentation on the part of defendant. he answer admitted the original demand and averred payment by
the notes referred to in the complaint. but did not deny in proper form the
allegations in the complaint respecting the hand of defendant in the transaction.
The case was submitted in the pleadings and laintif had judgment. Held,
that the jud ent was erroneous; that the al egations of the complaint in
reference to e transaction, claimed to operate as ayment, were not material
allegations requiring a denial, and were not there ore admitted by the failure
of defendant to deny them. Ganjield v. Tobias, 21 Cal. 349.

35. Insumcient denia1s.—Where a complaint, in an action on a promissory
note, executed by two defendants, averred that the defendants were partners,
and that the note was executed by them, and the answer simply denied that
the defendants were partners, and did not deny that they executed the note:
Held, that the averment of partnership was immaterial, and that laintifl‘ was
entitled to judgment on the pleadings. Whitehall v. Thomas, 9 al. 499.

36. A plea, professing to answer the whole complaint, but in fact only answering one of the two counts, is bad. This was the rule at common law,
and it :3) lies under our system. Wallace v. Bear River Water-and Mining

0., 8 . 461.

37. Where the complaint, verified, avers that defendant is indebted to
plaintifff for goods, wares and merchandise, sold and delivered, in the sum of
eight hundred and twenty-eight dollars and sixteen cents, and the answer
denies that defendant is indebted in the sum of eight hundred and twentyeight dollars, sixteen cents, as is set out in said com laint: Held, that the
denial is insnmcient. Higgins v. Wortell, 18 Cal. 3' . See Woodworth v.
Knowlton, 22 Cal. 164.

38. Where, in an action on a lost note, a verified com laint all es that on
a particular day the note in question was made b defen t, and elivered to
plaintifff, an answer den ' the makin and do ‘very of the note on the day
mentioned is insuilicient. uch denial oes not reach the substantial matter
of the averment, and only raises an immaterial issue as to time. Gxstro 1.
Wetmore, 16 Cal. 379.

39. The denial of any indebtedness, without a denial of any of the facts
from which that indebtedness follows as a conclusion of law, raises no issue.
Curtis v. Richards 49 Vantine, 9 Cal. 33.

40. Where, in an action on a lost note, the complaint, verified, alleges the
loss, stating 'cuJarl the circumstances thereof, an answer denying that
the note was 0st as allyeged, does not put in issue the fact of loss, which is
the gist of the averment, but only the circumstances of the loss, which are
collateral and immaterial. Castro v. Wetmore, 16 Cal. 379.

41. In a suit on a note, the complaint containing the note, or a copy, a
denial of indebtedness is no denial at all. K inney v. Osborne, 14 Cal. 11 .

42. Where a complaint is verified, an answer denying “generally and specifically each and every material allegation in the complaint. the same as=il

suoli allegation were herein recapitulated," and also denying each allegation
in the same form, with certain qualihcations and exceptions, does not raise
an imue upon any fact stated in the complaint. Hensley v. flhrlar, 14 Cal. 608.

48. An allegation, in a verided complaint, that “ defendants wrongfully and
unlawfully entered u ii and dispossessed” laintin‘, is not suiliciently denied
by a denial that “ de endants wrongfully an unlawfully entered and dispossessed plaintim” because such denial admits entry and ouster. Busenius v.
Cogs, 1-! Cal. 91.

Where both complaint and answer are verined, the denial in the answer
of an allegahbn in the complaint, in the following terms, is not suiiicient, viz:
“And the said defendants deny, for want of information to enable them to
admit, the sale and transfer of said Geo ‘a Ditch to them, plaintidia, as

” etc. Humphreys v. McCall, 9 Cal. 9.
. If.the complaint, in an action to recover the ossession of personal
property, avers that the “ plaintiff was the owner an in ssession of the
,” this averment is not traverred by an answer whic denies that the
" ' W was the owner and entitled to the possession of the property.”

N v.tl§em:lllt’egati29 Cdiiiwihe def am ongrun 1: th

46. oris on t. “ en wr too e
kom plaiiitilfre p<_'_:.~;.-';e‘.s.-‘ir:11. and from thence to the time the action 
mgnced, wnm -___rful1y Ilfttiiilltid the same property from him,” traversed by an
answer denies, “that the defendant at any time wrongfully took and detained
the property from the plaintiff.” Id.

47. Iftheanswer does not traverse the material allegations ofthecomplaint, and the new matter contained in it does not state facts suiiioient to
constitute a defense, and the pleadings are not verined, a closing denial,
stating that " the defendants  each and every allegation set forth in
pkiiihfs oogplilint not consistent with the foregoing answer,” fails to raise
an isue. .

. If an answer merely denies what is non-essential in the averments of
a complaint, it is an admission of all that is essential to a recovery. Laying-,
well v. G-r#ig, 31 Cal. 231.

49. If the complaint avers that the defendant is indebted to the plaintiff in
the sum of three thousand dollars gold coin, for so much money received by
defendant for plaintifffs use, and the answer denies that the defendant received three thousand dollars in gold coin for plaintiffs use, it is only a denial
of its receipt in gold coin, and does not raise an issue. Id.

60. If the complaint contains averments of the rendition of a judgment
the defendant, by a Court of competent jurisdiction, and states the
c ter of the judgment, an answer denying that the defendant became or
was lawfully bound by the judgment, is only a denial of a conclusion of law,
g dtcliles not raise an issue gt tftact. Iftsthc; ijudigrnelngican bf) attackegu collater, e answer must speci c poin 0 ts vai ty. lev. permsors'
ofysan Francisco, 27 Cal. 655. mp
51. If the complaint avers the passage of an ordinance by a municipal cortion, and the answer in reply states in eneral terms that the ordinance is
ego] and void, no issue of fact is raised. d.

62. An averment in a complaint that the defendant, since November, 1858,
“ has continued‘ to ossess and occupy said land and premises, and use the same
in her said sole er business,” is not denied by a denial in the answer that defendant has continued since the 9th day of November, 1858, to occu or use
31. said premises in her business as such sole trader. Camden v. ullen, 29

564.

53. An allegation in a sworn answer, that “ on the 24th day of March, 1862,
the said French and Robinson, by deed duly executed, acknowledged and recorded, conveyed said premises to this defendant for the sum of seven thousand
seven hundred and nfty dollars,” is not denied by a statement in the replication; that “ the plaintitlii further den that said French and Robinson, or either
of Iieni. conveyed said premises to a defendant for the sonic! seven thousand,
seven hundred and dollars, or for any other sum.” Such denial is a mere
denial that French an Robinson conveyed the 1 remises without denying the
facts which constitute the conveyance; besides, t does not deny the .oonveyance—-the material fach-but only a conveyance for a consideration. Under
such denial, the pay making such averment is not required to offer his deed
in evidence on the al. The allegation of the answer is deemed admitted
under the provisions of the statute. Landers at al. v. Bolton. 26 Cal. 416.

54. Where the complaint avers that the defendant wrongfully and unlawfiillz
took and carried away personal property, and the answer denies that defe
ant wrongful} and unlawfully took and carried it away, it is a confession of
the takin an carginaaway, and a denial merely of its wrongful character.
La! v. will, 25 C . 9.

5. A denial that property sued for is of the exact value alleged in the
complaint, is an admission of any lesser value. Ibwdy v. Ellis, 22 Cal. 650.

56. If the pl ' are under oath, and the re lications in response to a
material averment o the answer undertakes to eny, by saying, “ it is not
true," etc., the replication is evasive, and does not specifically deny the averment. Verzan v. McGv-egor, 23 Cal. 339.

57. Literal and conjunctive denial.s.—In this case, as the bond in the
complaint answers to the description of the bond ofered in evidence, and as
the complaint avers that the mortgage was given to secure this bond-—the
denials in the answer ' literal conjunctive--the execution of the
bond and mortgage was hel to be admitted by the answer, as also that the
mortgage was given to secure the debt evidenced by the bond. Blanlcman v.
Vallejo, 15 Cal. 638; see facts stated.

58. Where the answer denied the allegations of indebtedness as to time,
amount and work, in the very words of the complaint: Held, that the answa
raised an immaterial issue upon these particulars, instead of meeting the
substantial matter averred. Oauyield v. Sanders, 17 Cal. 569.

59. The rules of pleading, both under the old equity system and under
our present system, are intended to revent evasion, and to require a denial
of every specific averment in a sworn ill, in substance and in spirit, and not
merely a denial of its literal truth; and whenever the defendant fails to
make such denial, he admits the averment. Smith v. Richmond, 15 Cal. 501.

60. Where the com laint, in replevin, averred that on a certain da plaintifff was the owner and in possession of the roperty, and that its v as was
$1,000; and the answer denied that on the y specined “ the plaintiff was
the owner and lawfully in ssession;" and, as to its value, averred that the
defendant has no knowl e, etc., and thereforee denies that it is worth
$1,000: Held, that the answer is insufficient, because it raises an immaterial
issue as to time; and, as to the possession of the props , that it amounts
merely to a conclusion of law. Kuhland v. Sedgwiclc, 17 al. 123.

61. Such an answer raises no issue as to the allegation of “possession,”
except in conjunction with the allegation of ownership, and as each of the
allegations is suiiicient to sustain the complaint, the issue presented by the
co unctive denialis irrelevant and  Id.

63. An answer which undertakes to deny averments as a whole, as conjunctively stated, is evasive, and an admission of the allegations thus attempted
to be denied. Fish v. Redington, 31 Cal. 185.

63. In this case the complaint and answer are printed in the opinion, and
a large number of authorities are cited on page 194.

64. If several averments in a complaint are con'unctively stated, an answer
attempting to deny them, by r ting them in eir congunctive form, does
notraise an issue. Reed v. 0 dew-wood, 32 Cal. 109.

65. If an alleglation of a complaint consists of several clauses or propositions connected y the copulating conjunction “ and,” a denial of the entire
allegation is evasive and insutiicient. Each proposition should be separately
demed. More v. Delvalle, 28 Cal. 170.

66. Where several allegations of a complaint are not connected by the conjunction “ and,” a denial in the answer of these allegations, conjunctively,
does not amount to a denial of the alle tions to which the defendant professes to respond. Fitch v. Bunch, 30 al. 208.

67. Where an allegation in a verified complaint embraces several distinct

opositions stated ccnjunctively, a denial in the answer, of the entire alle9%, fallow-ing the e of the com laint, is insumcient and raises no
issue. Woodicmtb v  22 Cal. 1&.

N38. Thus, where the form 03 thekallegation was that lclllefendant “ unlawand wrongful] seized an too said prope into 's possession from
using plaintifff," an the denial was “ that he l(-defendant) wrongfully and
unlawfully seized. took, or carried away the said property: Held, that the fact
that defenldant took the property from the plaintid, was not denied, but admitted. d.

69. Daniels on information and belie£—The denial as to value, being
based on the want of knowledge or information, is insutiicient. Kuhland v.
Sedgwick, 17 Cal. 123.

70. If the com laint aver the recovery of a judgment against one of several defendants, e Court in which it was recovered, and the date and
amount of the same, the defendants, in their answer, ma deny the same
upon information and belief. Vassault v. Austin, 32 Cal. 59%

71. A specinc allegation of a contract, in a verified com laint, is not suficiently eontroverted by an answer stating that defendant as no knowledge
or information respecting the same, and thereforee denies the same, and no
$  of the contract would be necessary. 0rd v. Steamer Uncle Sam, 13

72. The allegation of the death of laint.it!"s ancestor is a verided comleint, is not sufficientl controverted y the averment in the answer “ that
defendant has not su cient knowledge to form a belief,” and thereforee
neither admits nor denies. Anderson v. Parlcer, 6 Cal. 197.

73. Where the alleged fact is, from its nature, presumptively within the
personal knowledge of the defendant, he cannot be permitted to answer on
information and belief, but must answer in the form positive. And where,
from the nature of the fact all , the knowledge, if any, is presumptively
based on information, he is not und to deny positively, but only “ according to his information and belief ;” but in such case, he must answer according to both his information and belief. The word “belief,” as used in the
shtnte, is to be taken in its ordinary sense, and means the actual conclusion
of the defendant, drawn from information. Hump v. McCall, 9 Cal. 59.

74. Defendant can know what is his belief, and can erefore state it. This
belief may be founded on the statement of others, not competent witnesses,
and not under oath, etc. Yet, if the defendant has formed a belief from this
source, he must state it. He cannot be the judge as to whether his information is legal testimony. Id.

75. The answer that the defendant, a municipal corporation, has no knowledge or information “ in respect to the obligations of a count in a verined
complaint, and thereforee denies the same," is insutilcieut. San Francisco Gas
00. v. The City, 9 Cal. 453.

76. The statute imposes upon the defendant, if a natural person, and, if a
corporation, upon its oiiicers and agents, the duty of uinng the uisite
knowledge or information respecting the matter all in a veriii complaint, to enable them to answer in t e proper form. d.

77. In no case can the allegation of a verified complaint be controverted by
a denial of sumcient know or information upon the subject to form a
belief. Curtis v. Richards cf: antine, 9 Cal. 33; Id. 453.

78. An allegation in an answer by an administrator that the defendant
“avers, on information and belief, that no such deed or deeds were ever executed," is a sumcient denial of an averment in the complaint that defendant's

intestate  1a3d delivered the particular deeds referred to. Thompson
v. , . 8 .

7 . Where the pleadings are verified, and the answer in response to a material allegation of the complaint denies the same upon information and belief,
the denial is insumcient. Nelson v. Murra , 23 Cal. 338.

80. If the allegations of a verified com 'nt are presumptively within the
knowledge of the defendant, a denial of e same in the answer, according to
his best knowledge, information and belief, is evasive of the issue tendered.
Brown v. Scott, 26 Cal. 194. .

81. Where a material fact, stated in averided complaint, is denied upon

information and belief, the answer should state how it happened that the
defendant is without knowledge as to the fact averred. Id.

82. When the material facts alleged are presumptively within the knowledge
of the defendant, he must traverse them if he undertakes to do so, or, must
§t2al‘€a1l1O%;t is that he is without knowledge of such facts. Vassault v. Austin,

83. The recovery of a judgment is not resum tivel within the knowledge
of the defendant. Id. . P P y

84. A denial “ on information and belief" is sumcient. It is not necessary
to follow the precise words of the statute, b saying, “ on his information and

belief," etc. Roussin v. Stewart, Oct. T., 1 67.

84. Defendant may crave oyer of a written inst:-urnent.—A written
contract may be declared on according to its legal efect, or it may be set forth
in hasc verba. If declared on according to its legal effect. the defendant may
3 the rule of common law in a proper case, crave oyer of the instrument, and

it appear that its provisions have been misstated, he may set out the contract in have verba and demur on the ground of variance. Stoddard v. Deadwell, 26 Cal. 294.

85. Prayer.—In an action to recover personal roperty. to enable the defendant to obtain the value of the roperty on jucgment of dismissal '
the plaintid for failure to appear, e answer must contain some allega on or
prayer, relative to the change of_ possession from defendant to plaintid. The

udgment of return or value 18 in the nature of a cross-'udgment, and must
be based u on proper averments. Gould v. Scannell, 13 al. 430.

If the  takes the property, the defendant must claim its return

in his answer, to enable the Court to give the judgment in the alternative

form. Id. See further, § 147, post.

86. Generally.-——The defense, that the defendant acted by advice of counsel, must show that such advice was given upon a full and fair statement of
the facts. Blissv. Wyman, 7Cal.25 .

87. When the defendants employed the laintiii‘ to superintend the erection of a building, of _which he was one of e contractors, they cannot plead
that it is against public policy that he should occupy two positions, of which
the interests were in conflict, in defense of an action brought by him for services as superintendent. Shaw v. Andrews cf: Hilly/er, 9 Cal. 73.

88. A plea professing to answer the whole complaint, but in fact only answering one o the two counts, is bad. This was the rule at common law,
and itpplies under our system. Wallace v. Bear River W. and M. 00., 18
Cal. .

89. Ananswbr is fatally defective if it does not deny any of the material
allegations of a verined complaint, either positively or according to information and belief ; the only forms in which the allegations of - a verified oomlaintcanbecontrovertedaoastoraiseanissue. Adenialinan other
orm is unknown to oursystem or ractice, and cannot have any 1 edect.

Sm Francisco Gas 00. v. The City, Cal. 453.

90. Second snbdiviaion—new mat:ter.—New matter is, where defendant
seeks to introduce into the case a defense not disclosed by the leadings—somethhbg  on by him, but not put in issue by the plaintifff. ridges v. Paige,
13 a . .

91. New matter is that which, under the rules of evidence. the defendant must
aclrmatively establish. If the onus of proof is thrown u on the defendant, the
matter to be proved by him is new matter. Piercy v. n. 10 Cal. 22.

92, Where new matter exists, it must be stated in the answer. Id.

93. TheCode makes no distinction between diderent classes of new matter.
All new matter of defense must be stated in the answer. Id.

94. A defense that concedes that plaintifff once had a good cause of action,

, but insists that it no longer exists involves new matter. Id.
' i 95. Under section fo -six of the Code, there are only two classes ofdefense.
allowed. The mat co ts of a sim le denial; and the second, of the allegation of new amrmative matter. An as the Code has abolished all distinctions

in the forms of action, and requires only a simple statement of the fact: constitnting the cause of action or defense, these two classes of defense must be the
same in all cases. Id.

96. The general denial onl puts in issue the allegations of the com laint.
Kev matter must be special y pleaded, and new matter is that which e defendant must amrmatively establish. Glazer v. Clift, 10 Cal. 303.

97. Where a negative allegation is necessary in stating the cause of action,
although it must, of course. precede an averment by the opggslite p of the
hot negatitved, it ne:et'tl:1el&188lO(;ltl:i.lt1lte8 gs basis miif trl: an; j(t)l;1s mbyvtge
snbsequen avermen,an e a ropera sass ve an o ment of new matter. Frisch v. Cider, 21 Cal. 7).

98. To a complaint in the usual form upon a promissory note, an answer
was filed admitting the s’ ' of the note, but avemng that it was made,
not on account of any in ebtedness existing between the parties, but for the
gpose of beingusedasccllateral security for a debtdueto a thirdperson

in the maker and payee Jointly ; that the Joint debt was subsequently paid,
and that the note having thus become funotus , should have been canceled, but through fr%udhr;s taken and hetallg $0 piyeeihand talansferred
without wnsideration ' to the plain ° : , 1: ese egations
were not neww ‘ch, uiidermtthe tiystem 131' re lication then‘ in fotiilcez
wasadmitted ya 'uretor9Py; t eiro ectwasto eny a
any obligation of the character counted upon in the complaint was ever
created by the si ' of the instrucinient, and thus to traverse its essential
tions. 0 d v. Fulton, 21 . 430.
, . Where the allegations of an answer, although stated in an amrmative
form, are in eiect only a denial of the allegations of the com laint, they do
not constitute new matter within the meaning of our Practice ct. Id. _
....‘°‘:.   *“£..:‘i*‘ °' as Wars‘  ‘“:P§.°°.*:.°"'
o essen ega one o a coin w i ow
a cause of action, but sets forth facts from which it results at, notwithstanding the truth of the allegations of the complaint, no cause of action existed
31?? 1ai‘i;tciull' at tlli!ee‘tiimett.hhe action was brloughttlbgiose facts are mililegl matéer;
ave in e answer 0 y s ow some essen ega on
ohfi the complaint is untrue, then they are not new matter, but only a traverse.
l0l. A complaint, in an action to recover personal property, averted that
the plaintiff was the owner and possessor of the ngroperty at the time of the
taking by defendant. The answer denied this _egation, and, in addition,
aver:-ed amrmatively that the property was at that time owned and
by a third person. Held, that this averment was but another form of denial,
and not new matter which, under stem of replication formerly in force,
was admitted by a failure tbpe reply. 11  h v. dKno1i1olton, 22 Cal. 163“

102. New matter must specia y p ; an w atever admits t a
cause of action, as stated in the complaint, once existed, but at the same time
avoids it, thattlis,7shows that it has ceased to exist, is new matter. Coles v.
Boulsby, 21 C . 4 .

H103. A le by a shgarig set forth in the answer as a defense, is new matter.

ulford v. illo, al. 94.

104. New matter. defendant need not litigate.—In ejectinent he is
bound to bring forward all matter of a strictly defensive character, or be precluded from again litigating the same; but he is not bound to set up or litigate
igvedmaagsr constituting a cause of action in his favor. Ayres v. Beasley,

105. Plea in abatement.—A failure to join may he pleaded in abatement.

Whilne%lvI. Stark, 8 Cal. 514.
106. e non-presentation of the claim to the administrator is, in its nature
and efect, nothing more than a matter of abatement. It defeats only the
plaintid’ ’s presmt right to recover, and such an objection to the coin laint
ll‘l)u&Lbe55lE!,18d6 for the &rst time in the Court below. Hcntsch v. orter,
1 .

107. To support a plea in abatement, fouiided on the pendency of a prior
action, it is necessary to show that process was issued in such action. Primm

v. Gray, 10 Cal. 522.

-vv .———— v— —-———v.--vd —— ——_v -V--r———vJ —— ——.v-— v— ————————v' — -—~——— v—————vv

be leaded in abatement. The proper course, if the suit were not authorized,
is tgr defendant to move the Court upon affidavits to dismiss the suit, upon
the ground that it was not authorized by the person in whose name it is
brought. If the attorney, on such motion, and after notice of it, fails to
;ha(iW4l:;i18 authority, the Court can dismiss the case. Turner v. Caruthen, 17

109. Where, on a plea in abatement to the entire action, that another suit,
for the same cause of action, was pending at the time of suit brought, the
proof shows that the first suit is only for part of the same matter sued for in
the second suit, the plea fails. Thompson v. Lyon, 14 Cal. 39.

110. Objection should be taken b demurrer or answer to the misjoinder
of parties defendant. An answer ' not be treated as a plea in abatement
for a misjoinder of parties defendant, after the testimony has disclosed a
gr‘-)oper cause of action against them. Warner v. Wilson, 4 Cal. 310; Dunn v.

zcr, 10 Cal. 170.

111. Matter in abatement, or which was such at common law—as a motion
to change the venue—must be set up in the answer, and with such particul(1;:1ity $3 to exclude every conclusion to the contrary. Tooms v. Randall, 3

. 4 .

112. Wherever the subject matter of the plea or defense is, that the plaintik cannot maintain any action at any time, whether present or future, in
res t of the supposed cause of action, it may, and usually must, be pleaded
in ar; but matter which merely defeats the present proceeding, and does
not show that the laintiif is forever concluded, should, in general, be pleaded
in falbsatelrrlient. bzztsch v. Porter, £0 Cal. 555.

. eas in a tement are not avored, and the party leading’ must rove
his plea as put. Thompson v. on, 14 Cal. 39. P P

114. A plea to abate an action dyl reason of another action pending is not
good unless it shows that the pen 'ng action was brought for the same cause
Esalthsegsone in which the plea is interposed. Galaveras Co. v. Broclcway, 30

115. A misnomer of parties plaintifff must be objected to by demurrer or
answer, and cannot, in the absence of such objection, be made a ground for
nonsuiting such of the plaintiffs as show themselves entitled to recover. Rowe
v. Bacigalluppi, 21 Cal. 632.

116. If an answer sets up a former suit, pending between the same parties, in
abatement of the action, and has annexed to it a copy of the record of the former
suit. the annexation of this copy does not do away the necessity of a trial and
the introduction of the record in evidence. The question cannot be determined
on the pleadings, but there must still be proof of the former suit. People v.
De la Guerra, 24 Cal. 73.

117. The defense of a riot lis pendens is available only where the plaintifff, at
least, in both actions is t e same. 0’0onner v. Blake, 29 Cal. 312.

118. Pleas in just:i£cat1on.—Every sale of property and personal chattels
is good between the parties, and cannot be attacked, exce t by a creditor who
has recovered judgment and taken out execution against the vendor, which has
been returned unsatisfied, in whole or in part—with the single statutory exception of an attaching creditor; and his remedy being unknown to the common
law, he must show allirmatively that his attachment has been properly issued,
under the statute, before he can attack the sale. Thomburgh v. Hand, 7 Cal. 554.

119. For such a purpose the writ of attachment, coupled with proof of the
debt. is inadmissible in proof, without introducing the affidavit and other
requisites to the issuing of the writ. Id.

120. If, in justitlcation by the sheriff under an attachment, judgment and execution, it be necessary to aver in the answer that the writs of attachment and
execution were returned executed by the sheriff, still the omission of this averment, though it might have been ground of demurrer, was no ground for rejecting all evidence under such justification. Walker v. Woods, 15 Cal. 66.

121. An officer, in order to justify the seizure of property in the possession of
a stranger to the writ which he has executed, must lead specially such justification. He cannot justify under a general de of the allegations of the

complaint Glaser v. Clifl, 10 Cal. 303. See Coles v. Soulsby, 21 Cal. 47,
where the authorities are collected and commented on.

122. In an action brought against a sheriff for property attached by him, he
may plead the property to have been in possession of the defendant in the suit.
In such a case. it is not necessary that the defendant should specially lead want
81;] ngtlce and demand in order to make such a defense. Killey v. oannell, 12

. 3.

123. Where a miner enters upon land in the possession of another, claiming
the n‘ t to enter for mining p s, he must justify his entry by showing:
first, t the land is public land; second, that it contains mines or minerals;
third, that he enters for the bona jide purpose of mining; and such justification must be amrmatively leaded in the answer, with all the requisite aver»
 tcézahow a right, un er the statute or by law, to enter. Lentz v. Victor,

. 1.

124. In an action of rfhplevin against a sherin‘, he must justify not only with
the execution, but with a judgment itself, whenever he takes prope which
is in the possession of a stran er to the writ; or, in other words, w enever
the strangle:-’s possession is sued: as would revent the debtor himself from
retaking e possession. Know v. Marshall, 9 Cal. 617.

125. An answer justifying a ass on the ground of omcial duty should
aver that the defendant is an 0 car, and what his otlicial du is. If there
are other defendants, and the answer is intended to a Oply to em, it should
state that they entered in aid of the officer. Plco v. LP imas, 32 Cal. 578.

126. Where, in an action against the sherin‘ for taking goods, he justides
under an attachment against a third person, it is not neces that his answer
should set forth minutely every fact relating to the attac ent suit. An
answer which stated the time of commencement of the action, the names of
parties, the Court, and that the goods were taken by virtue of a writ of attachment issued thereon, held to be sumcient. Tbwdy v. Ellis, 22 Cal. 650.

127. An answer justifying the seizure of personal property by virtue of a
writ of attachment issued against a person other than the plaintifff, does not
state facts constitu ‘ a defense, if it fails to alle e that the defendant in the
gt2t9a.chment suit was t e owner of the property. icloardson v. Smith, 29 Cal.

128. In an action against a sherid’ for a violation of his duty in the service
of an attachment, if he relies on matters occurring after its issuance and

ting as a dissolution of the same, such matter must be specially pleaded.
Slc£-‘omb v. Reed, 28 Cal. 281.

129. What must be specially pleaded.--Abandonment of land need not
he pleaded, where. Wilson v. Cleaveland, 30 Cal. 192.

130. Abandonment was amrmatively averred by the defendant in St. John
v. Kidd. 26 Cal. 266.

“E1531. Abatement. Tooms v. Randall, 3 Cal. 448. Henlsch v. Porter, 10 Cal.

132. Another action pending was pleaded in the case of 0’C'onner v. Blake,
29 Cal. 314. Calaveras 00. v. Broclcway, 30 Cal. 325. See post, “plea in
abatement; ” note, § 46.

10133.]. award and satisfaction. Uoles v. Soulsby, 21 Cal. 47. Piercy v. Sabin,

134. Attachment.——-See ante, “pleas in justification.”

135. Composition with creditors. Smith v. Owens, 21 Cal. 11.

136. Counter-claim should be leaded. Hicks v. Green, 9 Cal. 74.

137. Disclaimers.—-14 Cal. 67 . Post, $255. An answer which disclaims all
interest in the land in dispute, except such as the defendant may have under
the homestead law, by virtue of the dedication of the land to homestead uses
by himself and wife, is not a disclaimer. De Uprey v. De U , 27 Cal. 331.

138. Equitable titles, defenses and esto pels. See post, “equi ble do erases,"
No. 255. Clarke v. Huber, 25 Cal. 597. garpentier v. The City of 0a nd, 30
Cal. 439. Flandreau v. Doumey, 23 Cal. 354. Blum v. Robertson, 24 Cal. 146.
Downer v. Smith, 24 Cal. 124.

l39.Esto ls ustbe pec1all' stated‘ th . ClaIoev.Huber,
25Cd.593.ppe m s y in e answer 1'

140. A estoppel by deed or ‘matter of record should he "pleaded as such,
where there is an opportunity to plead it. Where no opportunity to plead it
occurs, it is conclusive as evidence. Flandreau v. Downey, 23 Cal. 354.
ca1l413.0Eviction of the tenant must be set up, when. Piercy v. Sabin, I0

112. iakecuson. See ante, “Pleas in justidcaticn."

143. For fixture of minin claims. Wiscman v. McNulty, 25 Cal. 230;
‘Dutch Flat 00. v. Mooney, 12 al. 534.

32134; Fc7>rmer recovery. Vance v. Olinger, 27 Cal. 358; Marshall v. Shafter,
. 1 6.

145. Fraud, etc. People v. Supervisors of San Francisco, 27 Cal. 656; see
post “Fraud" No.1.

36:45. Grant of an easement or servitude. American 00. v. Bradford, 27 Cal.
147. Interventions. See § 661.

148. Justification. Towdy v. Ellis, 22 Cal. 650; see ante “Pleas in justi£—
cation.

149. Misjoinder of parties plaintiil‘, owing to matters which have occurred
. nding the action, must be taken by supplemental answer, or it is waived.

alderwood v. Pyser, 31 Cal. 333; Barstow v. Needman, Oct. T. 1867.

150. Negligence and want of ski11.—Suit by an attorney on a quantum
valebant, for professional services. Held, that negligence and want of skill
need not be set up in the answer. Bridges v. Paige, 13 Cal. 640.

151. New matter must be specially pleaded. Coles v. Soulsby, 21 Cal. 47,
and authorities there cited.

152. New matter ' after issue 'oined must be set up by supplemental answer. Jessup v. ing, 4 Cal. 33 ; see post, No. 172 “ Supplemental
answer."

163. Payment. Ooles v. Soulsby, 21 Cal. 47; Id. 71. In Frish v. Caler (21
Cal. 71 it is held that a lea of payment is not new matter, and in Fair-child
v. Ams ugh (22 Cal. 57 ) the Court say it follows, that it is not necessary to
set it up as a special defense in the answer. This doctrine is contrary to
what was assumed to be the rule by Field, C. ., in Green v. Palmer, 15 Cal.
417, and by Burnett, J., in Piercy v. Sabin, 10 Cal. 27, and to the current of
authorities in New York and elsewhere. Neither payment nor part payment
can there be given in evidence under the eneral issue. Vooh's N. . Code,
8 ed., 274; Id., 284 (b.); Vansantword’s l. 454; see 10 Cal. 30.]

154. Plaintili‘, not the real party in interest. See ante, § 4.

155. If the complaint in a suit on a note avers that the defendants made
and delivered the note to the plaintifff, and that the plaintili‘ is still the owner
and holder, the allegation that the laintiii‘ is the owner and holder is but a
conclusion ot law, and an answer enying it, but admitting the other allegagops gaggthe complaint, raises no material issue. Wedderspoon v. Rogers, 32

a . .

156. Such answer should be stricken out on motion as irrelevant, and
plaintiff is entitled to judgment on the pleadings, even if there is an aver
ment in it, that the action is not prosecuted in the name of the real arty in
interest, and that another person own the note. Id. Vooh’s. N. . Code,
(8th ed.) 282 (C.)

157. Release. Turner v. Caruthers, 17 Cal. 431 ; Coles v. Soulsby, 21 Cal. 50.

158. Statute of Frauds. Osborne v. Endicott, 6 Cal. 149'.

159. Statute of Limitations. See post, “Statute of Limitations ;" see ante
‘9 40, note “ Statute of Limitations.”

3 lggi Stésbsequently acquired title by defendant in ejectment. Moss v. Shear,
0 . 4 .

161. Transfer of title by plaintiff. Id.

162. Tax titles must he pleaded. Russell v. Mann, 22 Cal. 132.

163. Tax titles accruing after action commenced, must be pleaded in a supplemental answer. McMinn v. 0’0onnor, 27 Cal. 246. See post, § 46, “ supplemental answer.” V

164. Title in the defendant need not he pleaded, and may be given in under
a denial of plaintiffs title. Marshall v. Shafter, 32 Cal. 176.

165. Unworlnnanlike manner of doing work. Kendall v. Vhllejo, 1 Cal. 871.

166. Want of ca sci in s laintitf to sue. Oali or-nia Steam Navigation 00.
v W'n'gla1, 8 Cal. 5&5. w P f

0.i61‘.27That items in an account stated are overcharged. Tim-y v. Siclder, 13

168. Generally.-—In an action for damages, for diversion of water of plaintiffs. where defendants plead the general issue, it is not competent for the
defense to rove that a prior claim to the water exists in a third party. Such
a defense ould have been specialuljy; pleaded, and the third party made a party
to the action. Humpreyes v. M00 , 9 Cal. 59.

169. In an action against a sheriff for refusing to levy an attachment on certain roperty as belonging to the attachment debtor, testimony that the property ad been claimed by a third party, and the right of property tried before a
sherifs jury, and decided in favor of claimant, is irrelevant and inadmissible,
when those facts have not been setup as new matter of defense in the answer.
&*ong v. Patterson, 6 Cal. 156.

170. Where the leadings are verified, every matter of defense. not directly
responsive in the a legations of that complaint, must be set up in the answer.
Terry v. Stclcles, 13 Cal. 427.

171. Wherever the subject matter of the plea or defense is, that the plaintifff
cannot maintain any action at any time, whether present or future, in respect
of the supposed cause of action, it may, and usually must, he pleaded in bar;
but matter which merely defeats the present proceeding, and does not show that

the plaintifff is‘ forever concluded, should, in general, he pleaded in abatement.
&\tsclz v. Porter, 10 Cal. 555.

172. Supplemental answer.—Evidence of the discharge of the debt sued
on, by transactions subsequent to the filing of the answer, is admissible oul

11,3163! the plea of payment puis dar-rein continuance. Jcssup v. King, 4 C .

17 3. The objection, if it be one. that there is a misjoinder of parties plaintifff,
owing to the matters which have occurred pending the action, must be taken
by a su plemental answer, or it is waived. Calder-wood v. Pyser, 31 Cal. 333.

174. the defendant in an action to recover possession of real estate has
acquired title to the demanded premises pending the litigation, evidence of
this fact cannot be introduced, unless it 18 1 ed as a defense in a supplemental answer. McMi1m v. O'Connor, 27 Caf 246.

175. In actions to recover lands title acquired by defendants pendente lite,
and other matters of defense arising subsequent to the commencement of the

suit, must be set up by a supplemental answer in the nature of a plea, puis
darrein continuance. Moss v. hear, 30 Cal. 468.

176. The defendant cannot prove, on the trial of an action of ejectment for
the purpose of showing that plaintifff's right of possession has terminated,
that since the action was commenced laintid‘ has conveyed the land to another person, unless the fact of suc conveyance has been set up in the
original or a supplemental answer. Id.

1 7. New matter must be specially pleaded; and, in ejectment, a transfer of
itle by the laintiil‘, or a title acquired by defendant, pending the action,
must be pleased by supplemental answer, or it cannot be given in evidence.
Id. See ante, No. 163. See §67, post. Also $68, No. 89.

178. Cross-complaint. See post, $50.

179. Equitable titles, haw p1eaded.—The Court, and not the jag, must
mu the equitable title set up in the answer, and it must he s ciently
pl to warrant the Court in gran ° a decree which will esto the further

prosecution of the action. Downer v. mith, 24 Cal. 114; Ar v. Edinger,
10 Cal. 150; Lestrade v. Barth, 19 Cal. 660; Patterson v. Ely, 19 Cal. 28;

be-ade v. Murphy, Id. 248; Meador v. Parsons, Id. 294; Blum v. Robertson,
24 Cal. 124; Daios v. Dates, 26 Cal. 38; Clarice v. Huber, 25 Cal. 593.

180. Several defenses, when may be united.—See post, t 49.

181. Allegations in the complaint, when and where not admitted.--See 9 65, post.

182. Unless the answer denies the allegations of the complaint, th are
admitted without further proof, and constitute conclusive evidence 0 the
extent of the damages claimed. Patterson v. Ely, 19 Cal. 28.

183. The failure to deny a material averment is an admission of the facts
contained in such averment, and such admission is conclusive against the
pleader. Burloe v. Thble Mountain 00., 12 Cal. 403.

e 184. Under our practice, and that of the common law, a specidc denial of
one or more allegations is held to be an admission of all others well pleaded.
De Ro v. Cordes, 4 Cal. 117.

185. An admission by an attorney of record of the correctness of an amount
due, for which judgment is taken. when not done in fraud of the ri hts of his
client, destroys the edect of a denial in an answer. Taylor v. Ran , 5 Cal. 79.

186. An answer under our statute is not proof for defendant, but an admission in the answer of a fact stated in the complaint is conclusive evidence
against him. Blanlcman v. Vallejo, 15 Cal. 638.

187. Where the admissions in an answer ne ative its general denials, the
latter may be disregarded, and judgment ask u n the former, where the
complaint is verified, and the answer consists of suc admissions and denials.
Fremont v. Seals, 18 Cal. 433.

188. When the action is upon an account, and defendant in his answer
avers, in the form of reasons, for refusing payment when the account was presented to him before suit, that the rincipal portion was composed of items
for rinting done for clients, for whic he never became ersonally bound, and
tha the portion for which he was personally liable “ as, to the best of his
knowledge and belief, ” been paid and satisfied, and thereforee he pleads payment of the same: Held, that this is in substance a denial of indebtedness
for a portion of the account, and a plea of payment for the balance; and that
it is in effect an admission as to that balance of an original liability, and
throws the burden of establishing payment upon the defendant. Gaul v.
Sanders, 17 Cal. 569.

189. The failure of a defendant to deny the charges in a complaint, making
out a prima facie case for the plaintifffs. will throw the onus on defendant in
proving his amrmative allegations. Thompson v. Lee, 8 Cal. 275. ’

190. The defendant in his answer is re uired to den only the material
allegations of the com laint. Racouillat v. .32 Cal. 4 0.

191. Evidence shou d not he alleged in a complaint. Averments of mere
evidence are not admitted by failure to deny them in the answer. Id.

192. If the complaint is sworn to, a general denial in the answer admits all
its ma rial allegations. Pica v. Colimas, 32 Cal. 578.

193. f the com laint in an action to obtain a divorce avers the marriage of
the plaintifff and efendant, and the answer does not den the averment, it is
an admission of the fact for the purposes of the trial, an the marriage need
not be paroved. For v. For, 25 Cal. 587.

194. roceedings which are void by reason of the infirmity of the statute
under which they are bad, are not cured by an averment in a complaint that
they were duly and legally had; and a failure to deny the averment in the
answer is not an admission that the proceedings were valid or legal. People
v. Hastings, 29 Cal. 449.

195. Allegations not denied, deemed to be true.—See post, Q 65.

196. Effect of admissions, or want of denials.—The intent of the statute
is fully carried out by excluding arol testimony to contradict a deed; but
where parties admit the real facts 0 the transaction in their pleadings, these
:"d1]11i:s;<4>ns are to be taken as moditlcations of the instrument. Inc v. Evans, 8

a . .

191871. 1%) proof is required of facts admitted or not denied. Sattcrson v. Ely,
a . .

198. Answer must be oonaistent.—Where an amended answer is complete
in itself, and is inconsistent with the original answer, the two cannot stand
together. Kuhland v. Sedgwiclc, 17 Cal. 123.

199. A sworn answer must be consistent in itself, and must not den in one
sentence what it admits to be true in the next. Hensley v. Tartar, 14 al. 508.

200. If a fact, which is directly averred in one part of a verified pleading, is
in another part directly denied. whether it be in the statement of several causes
of action in a complaint or of several defenses in an answer. the party verifying it is guilty of perjury, and on the trial that averment which bears most
strongly against the pleader will be taken as true. Bell v. Brown, 22 Cal. 671.

201. If no objection be taken to an answer, b a motion to strike out, or by
demurrer which sets up inconsistent defenses, efendant ma on the trial rel
on anJ one of such defenses. Klinlc v. Cohen, 13 Cal. 623; ridias v. M ,
25C .35. Seepost§49.

202. What: filing an answer waives.—'l'he answer of the defendant waives
the all ed error as to the change of parties, whereby the name of such defend;n(t: has een substituted for that of another, without notice. Smith v. Curtis,

sl. 584.

203. An answer is a waiver of a demurrer previously interposed. Pierce v.
Jlinturn, 1 Cal. 470.

204. An answer to a complaint, after demurrer, overrules the demurrer.
Brooks v. Minturn, 1 Cal. 481.

205. Where a demurrer to the complaint is put in and overruled, and the
defendant then answers, the answer is a waiver of the demurrer. DeBoom v.
Priestly, 1 Cal. 206.

206. A complaint in an action to set aside a judgment which contains no
averment showing that relief could not have been obtained on motion, may
be demurrable, but if defendant fails to demur an answer on the merits, and

the fact su lying the defect appear in the record, the objection is waived.
Bibend v. reutz, 20 Cal. 109.

207. If a complaint to quiet title avers plainti1i"s possession, and the answer
admits the averment, this admission is not avoided by a special averment

that plaintiff obtained ossession by collusion with defendant s tenant. Reed
'1. Calder-wood, 32 Cal. 09.

208. Answer to one of two oonnt:s.—If the complaint contains two
counts, and the answer takes issue on the allegations of one only, laintif is

untitled to judgment on the other. Leyingwell v. Gr¢ing, 31 Cal. 2 1.

209. Omission to plead a defense specially is not cured by the introduction of evidence without gliection in support of it. Smith v. Owen, 21
Cal. 11 ; McComb v. Reed, 28 289.

210. Where an equitable estoppel in pais is not properly pleaded, but
on the trial evidence is introduced without objection, in the same manner
as if it had been properly leaded, and a verdict is rendered upon the evidence, without objection, e ob°ection to the leading will be deemed waived.
and the case will be considere as though e estoppel had been properly
pleaded. Davis v. Davis. 26 Cal. 38.

211. Irrelevant. redundant. superflous and immaterial matter, does not
require an answer, and may be stricken out. See post. § 50 and note.

212. Answer, evasive. how deterrnined.—In order to determine whether
the denials of an answer are evasive, each separate denial of each separate allegation must be taken by itself. If the answer to a particular allegation is a
denial of it. and there is no admission in the answer inconsistent with this
denial, an issue is fairly made. Bacouillat v. Rene, 32 Cal. 450.

213. Defense, whether legal or equitable. how determined.-—Whether
an answer states a purely legal or an equitable defense must be determined
by the answer itself, and not from the findings of the Court. Bodely v. Ferguson, 30 Cal. 511.

214. Misjoinder of partles.—Objection should be taken by demurrer or
answer to the misjoinder of parties defendant. An answer will not be treated
as a plea in abatement for a misjoinder of parties defendant, after the testim(():l1l:i'.llé&83diScl088d a proper cause of action against them. Warner v. Wilson,
4 1 .

216. Where two are joined as plaintiff in an action for the recovery of possession of land, a denial in the answer that the plaintiffs were in possession
of the land does not present the issue of a misjoinder of either of the plairr
tins. Gillman v. Sigma», 29 Cal. 637; see ante, 6 40, note, sub. 4.

216. Nonjoinder of part:1es.—There are two ways of taking advantage of
nonjoinder of parties plaintifff in an action of trover, or ap rtionment of
damages, when the defect _does not appear upon the faceo the complaint;
and ese are, at law, either b answer at the trial; and in equity, by answer
or demurrer. Whitney v. Star , 8 Cal. 616; see ante, Q 40, note, sub. 4.

217. Misjotlnderof aottons.—If several causes of action are improperly
united in the same action, the objection must be taken either by demurrer or
answer, or it will be deemed to have been waived. Maoondray v. Simmons,
1 Cal. 395; see ante, § 40, note, sub. 5.

218. Answer not to be evldenoe.——An answer responsive to and denying
the charges in a bill of equity is not evidence for the defendant, thou h the
bill be sustained by one witness only. Goodwin v. Hammond, 13 Cal. 1 8.

219. The equity rule requiring two witnesses to controvert an answer under
oath, does not prevail in this State. The answer is onl a leading, and is
not evidence for defendant. Bostic v. Love, 16 Cal. 69; Ian v. Vallejo,

15 Cal. 638.
220. An answer under our statute is not proof for defendant, but an admission in the answer of a fact stated in the complaint is conclusive evidence
against him. Blanlcman v. Vallejo, 15 Cal. 638.

221. What may be proven under a general or specinc den1aJ.—'l‘hat
the overflow or leakage was occasioned, not by the acts or negligence of the
defendants, but by the acts or negligence of another, was matter of denial
simply, not new matter of defense, to be proved onl when defendants opened
their case. Jackson v. Rather River Water 00., 14 al. 18. ,

222. Where plaintiff avers defendant is indebted to him for cattle sold and
delivered, and the answer denies the averment, the defendant may show anything disproving the contract as averted, as that another part , who in fact
sold the cattle, sold them as his own, and not as the agent of p ' tiff, or that
defendant was not to pay until the cattle were fattened and slaughtered.
Hawkins v. Borland, 14 Cal. 413.

223. Defendant may prove an eviction on a claim for rent in arrear, under

the eglea nil debit, or general denial. Mclaren v. Spaulding, 2 Cal. 510; overml in Pier-cy v. Tbbin, 10 Cal. 30, and consequently an eviction must be set

up in the answer.

224. Cross demands.—-See post, 6 48.

225. Counter olaim—See post, t 47.

226. Conditions precedent, how pleaded.—See post, § 60.

227. Material al1egation.——See post, t 66.

228. Written instrument, when deemed adm1tted.—See post, § 54.

229. Answer, how oonstrued.——See post, § 70.
230. Defects. to be disrogarded.—See post, § 71.
231. Timetoanswermaybeenlarged.-—Seepoe¢, $68.

ANSWER IN SPECIAL CASES.

282. Banln'uptoy.—The answer to a suit on a note set up defendant's diein insolvency. Plaintiii‘ demurred to the answer on the ground that
it di not allege that the note was described, set forth or included in defendant's schedule. Held, that the demurrer was not well taken; that under section dfty-nine of the Practice Act, it was suillcient to allege in the answer that
a judgment had been duly rendered dischargin defendant from the demand
sued on; and that whether the demand were su%ciently described was matter
of evidence, to be determined at the trial -by inspection of the record. Hanscom v. Tower, 17 Cal. 518.

. Bills of exchange and promissory notes.—The failure to make
gesentment at the place named would not discharge the debt, but could only
pimdfd d%f6a7nae as to the question of costs and damages. Montgomery
1 . .

$4. Ace yof the note suedonbeingattachedto, and madeapartof, the
 L answer, not verined, admits the genuineness and due execution
at note, and entitles the plaintiff to judgment. Horn v. Volcano Water

(bnparz, 13 Cal. 62.
235. answer to a suit on a promissory note by the assignee, which sets
as one defense: am, that the note was made payable to order, and was
fraudulentl altered by inserting the word “ bearer " in lieu of the
word “ order; ” secon that the defendant paid the note before assignment;
third, note was assigned to plaintifff after maturity, etc. Held, not fatally
defective. Sherman v. Rollberg, 11 Cal. 38.

236. Where a promissory note is signed by two persons in the same manner, with nothing on the ace of the note to show that one was merely a
surety, he cannot set up in defense that he was such, and that the plaintiR
had not sued in due time, and had given no notice of demand and protest.
Kritzcr v. Jfills, 9 Cal. 21.

237. In a suit on a note, the complaint containing the note or a co y, a
denial of indebtedness is no denial at all. Kinney v. Osborne, 14 Cal. 11 .

238. Where, in an action on a lost note, a veriaed com laint all es that
on a particular day the note in question was made b defen t, and elivered
toplaintiff, an answer denying the  and de ‘very of the note on the
day mentioned is insuilicient. Such demal does not reach the substantial
matter of the averment, and only raises an immaterial issue as to time.
Castro v. Wetmore, 16 Cal. 379. ‘

239. Where, in an action on a lost note, the com laint, verined, alleges the
loss, stating 'cularly the circumstances thereo , an answer denying that
die note was ost as all ed does not put in issue the fact of loss, which is the
m the averment, bu only the circumstances of the loss, which are caland immaterial. Id.

240. Suit on a romiasory note made by defendants. The complaint, not
veiihed, set out e note, and avers assignment thereof b payee to plaintid’.
Answer, general denial. Held, that the answer does not 't, but denies the
asignment, and hence, the plaintili‘ must page it, and is not entitled to judg-_
ment on the pleadings. Hastings v. Dollar ' , 18 Cal. 390.

241. In defense to an action on a promisso note, it'is not sumcient to
lead, in general terms, want of consideration, an that the note was obtained
hy fraud; the answer should set out the circumstances under which the note
was ‘van, and point out the facts which constitute the fraud. Gushce v. Leavitt, glcal. 160.

m. It is not a good plea to allege that a note sued on is thteaproperty of
another, and not of the plaintiff, without showing some substan ' matter of
defense against the one asserted to be the owner, and which could not be set
up against the plaintiff. Id.

243. Inanaction on a  bya special indorsee against the
maker, the plaintin must vs at e trial the genuineness of the indorsements, altho h the defen has not denied their genuineness under oath.
Grogun v. R , 1 Cal. 158—reeonsidered and amrmed in Id. 198.

244. If the complaint in an action by the assignee of a promissory note
' t the maker avers that the note was assigned to the plaintid for a valuconsideration before maturity, and is sworn to, an answer which denies
thatthe note was for ayaluable consideration indorsed and delivered by the
yes to the plaintid’ before maturity, or at any other time, does not put in
nae the fact of the assignment before maturity, but if it puts in issue any
thing, it is only the allegation that the asissignment was made for a valuab
consideration. Merrill '1. Mon-ill, 26 Cal. .
845. Ifthe complaint in a suit on a note avers that the defendant made and
deh'vered.the note to the plaintiff, and that the plaintifff is still the owner and
holder, the allegation that plaintiff is the owner and holder is but a conclusion

7.

6

of law, and an answer denying’ it, but admitting‘ ' the other allegations of the
complaint, raises no material issue. Wedderspoon v. Rogers, 32 Cal. 569.

246. Where, to an action upon a promissory note, an agreement of composition between the debtor and his creditors, including the laintif, is relied
upon as a defense, such agreement must be specially plead , and cannot be
considered under a lea o accord and satisfaction by the giving of new notes.
Smith v. Owens, 21 ‘al. 11.

247. If a defendant would resist the yment of a promissory note, given
for mining stock, on the ground that e seller made fraudulent representations as to the value of the mine, the answer should set up the defense, and
aver either that the stock was valueless to either party, or that the defendant

gsad offered to return it and rescind the contract. Giford v. (hrvill, 29 Cal.
9.

248. Corpofatlons.—'l‘he rule which requires a defendant to answer positively as to the facts alle ed in a verified complaint, which are presumptively
within his own knowl , applies to munici corporations. The statute
makes no distinction between the rules of pl ' a licable to natural persons and those applicable to artificial persons. San nctsco Gas Co. v. The
Cit , 9 Cal. 453.

9. There may exist the best reasons for a diferent rule of pleadin when
a municipal corporation is a defendant; but this Court can make no 'stinotion, because the Code makes none. It is a matter for the Legislature, and
not for the Court. Id.

250. In an action against a corporation to recover dividends which have
accrued on its stock, if the laintif avers, " that, from a date named, she
was, has been, and still is, e owner in her own right, and as her separate

roperty, of the stock,” the answer raises an issue if it denies that, at the
te named, “ the plaintiff was, has since been, or still is, the owner in her
own right and as her separate property ” of the stock. The qualification of
the denial by the words “ in her own right and as her separate (property ” are
mere surplusage. Dow v. Gould cf: Curry Silver Mining 00., 1 ‘al. 630.

251. D1vorce.—The doctrine of recrimination, or compensatio criminum,
applicable in suits for divorce, and the several onenses which, by the statute,
constitute grounds of divorce, are leadable in bar to such suits, the one to
the other, within the rinciple of e doctrine. Conant v. cbnant, 10 Cal. 249.

.252. To be an abso ute bar, the conduct of the plaintifff must be such as to
constitute a pro r basis for judicial decree against her, had suit been instituted b the de endant. Id.

253. an a plication by the wife for a divorce, on the ground of the willful neglect of er husband, and his failure to provide her with the necessaries
of life, for the period of three years, the residence of the husband with the
wife within the three years is no answer to the application, where it aptgears
that the were not living together at the commencement of the suit. ashburn v. {Va.shburn, 9 Cal. 47 .

254. If the complaint in an action to obtain a divorce avers the marriage of
plaintiff and defendant, and the answer does not den the averment, it is an
admission of the fact for the p sea of the trial, an the marri need not
be proved. Foe: v. For, 25 Cal. 7; Bennett v. Bennett, 28 Cal. 5 .

255. Bjectment. equitable defenses.—The defense arising from a verbal
contract for the sale of land, accompanied with acts of part performance,
taking the contract from the operation of the statute, is permissible, under
our system of practice, to an action of ejectment for the recovery of the
premises. The only chest of this mode of asserting the rights of the defendants, instead of filin a bill in equity, is to require the Court to pass upon
the questions raised §the answer in the first instance. If, upon hearing the
evidence, the Court a ould determine there was ground for relief, it would
enjoin the further prosecution of the action with its decree for a speciilc performance; and, on the other hand, if it should refuse the relief, it would
gojglj tiisgetermine the issue upon the general denial. Arquello v. Edinger,

258. Under our system of praohlce, equitable defenses may be interposed

to the ach'on of ejectznent, but the defendant in such cases becomes an actor
with respect to the matter presented by him, and his answer must contain all
the essential averments of a bill in equity, and the equity resented must
be of such a character that it may be ripened by the decree o the Court into
a legal right to the premises, or such as will sto the plaintifff in the prosecution of the action. Lestrade v. Barth, 19 Cal. 6 0.

257. Unless the answer denies the allegations of the complaint, they are
aémitted without further proof, damages included. Patterson v. Ely, 19 Cal.

58. When an equitable answer is interposed to an action of ejectment,
laid answer being a bill in uity, can only be into sed where the parties
totheactionaresuch as we d be required to a b’ in equity seelnngthe
same relief. Lestrade v. Barth, 19 Cal. 660.

259. An answer in ejectment setting up an equitable defense is in the
nature of a bill in equity, and must contain its essential averments. The
defendant then becomes an actor with respect to the matter alleged by him,
and his defense must be of such a character as may be ri ned by the decree
ofthecourtinto alegalrighttothe remises, or as ' es the prosecutionof the action of the plaintiff. Estradev. Murphy, 19 C . 248; Meador
1'. Parsons, 19 Cal. 294.

260. If the defendant, in an action of ejectment, relies on an equitable
title to the demanded premises as a defense, it must be pleaded, and the anever setting it up must, in substance at least, possess all the elements and
essential qualities of a bill in equity, and the equity presented must be of
such a character that it maybe ripened bythe decreeof theCourt into a
legal title to the premises, or such as will esto the laintid from the rosegonof the action. Blumv. Robertson, 24 gal. 1 ; Downer v. Sm’ Id.,

261. Andhe must inform the adverse party of the nature of the cause of
action or defense which he will be obliged to meet, and to do this he must plead
it with the same fullness and particularity as is required in cases involving like
Inbjects of inquiry in suits of equity. Davis v. Davis. 26 Cal. 38.

262. Although a party may setup an equitable defense to an action at law,
he is not confined to that proceeding. He may let the judgment go at law, and
lie his bill in equity for relief. Lorraine v. Long, 6 Cal. 452.

283. mectrnent, separate answer.—-Where there are several defendants,
to entitle them to separate verdicts they should set forth with specific descri tion
the els which they severally occupy or claim. Patterson v. Ely, 19 Ca . 28;
ui’;‘.‘.’°..., .. mm, 15 m. 31.

264. If the defendant in ejectment desires to defend for only a rtion of the
Lemises, and to limit his liability for mans profits in a corres ond ng proportion

must frame his answer accordingly, and specify the po on of the premises

;(il’C:l‘llch it is intended to defend and disclaim as to the balance. Guy v. Hanly,
. 397. '

265. mectment, abandonment need not he pleaded, when.——In an
action of ejectment, one of the material allegations of the complaint is, that the
plaintifff was the owner and entitled to the possession at the time of the alleged
entry by defendant, and under a direct denial of this averment the defendant
in show that, previous to his entry, 9. title which once existed in the plaintifff

been lost by abandonment or forfeiture. Bell v. Brown, 22 Cal. 671.

166. Where the strict legal title is not involved, and the plaintiff relies upon
Bright to recover, founded upon naked possession, the defendant. under the
general issue. wimout leading abandonment. may prove an abandonment of

go by the p till’ before the defendant's entry. Wilson v. Oleaveland,
. 9

267. Bjeotment, generally.——If, in ejectment, the entry and ouster are de_ in the answer, the withholding of possession at the commencement of the
Iction is not admitted by the pleading, although it is not specially denied.
Hawkins v. Reiclwrt, 28 Cal. 53

26_8. The husband or the wife may set u the fact of homestead as a defense
to qectment, based upon a sheriff's deed o the premises, made in pursuance of

an execution sale on a judgment at law against the husband—there having
been no abandonment of the homestead. Williams v. Young, 17 Cal. 403.

269. The complaint charged that on a day mentioned the laintiifs were lawfully seized and possessed, and had the right of possession o a _certain tract of
land, and that defendants afterwards entered into and upon the said tract, and
ousted plaintifffs therefrom. The answer in response to these allegations averred
that the defendant was not guilty of the supposed trespasses and ejectment in
the complaint mentioned, nor of any part thereof. Held, that the answer raised

no issue. Schcnlc at al. v. Evoy at al., 24 Cal. 113.

270. The complaint in ejectment was filed on the 27th of January, and averred
that the defendants were in ossession of the demanded premises. The answer
was filed on the 8th day of ebruary, and the only response to this averinent
was as follows: “ This defendant further says, that he is not in possession of
the lands and tenements described in the complaint, or any part thereof.” Held,
that the allegation of the com laint must be taken as confessed. Id.

271. Where, in an action 0 ejectment, the complaint did not directly aver a
seizin or ownership of the premises by plaintifff, but alleged that the plaintifff, by
location, survey and certain other acts, acquired possession ; and the answer
denied these acts, except the survey, and denied that plaintiff acquired
sion by location “ or in any other manner.” Held, that the allegation of prior

ossession was suiliciently denied by the answer. LaRue v. Oppenheimer, 20

l. 617.
272. An allegation in an answer of the defendant in ejectment, of title in

himself, does not constitute new matter, and is only equivalent to a general
denial of title in the plaintifff. Marshall v. Shajtcr, 32 Cal. 176.

273. An answer in an action of ejectment, where both parties claim under a.
common grantor, which sets up as a defense a legal title in defendant ; and also
a verbal contract made by plaintifff’s grantor to convey, and an entry under,
and a subsequent purchase by plaintifff, with notice, contains both a legal and
equitable defense. Bodley v. Ferguson, 30 Cal. 511.

274. Where a complaint for the possession of land avers defendants to be
in possession, and the answer does not deny, but amrmatively shows it, then,
even if the allegation of possession be not material, and thereforee not requiring
a denial, the fact of possession becomes a matter of admission or eement
between the parties, as an independent fact, not in issue by the pl , but
at! ' the whole case. Powell v. Oullahan, 14 Cal. 114.

275. e averments of possession and ouster, in this case, were held to be

insudiciently denied. See statement of facts. Smith v. Doc, 15 Cal. 100.

276. A defendant in ejectment, entering under a deed executed by order of
a Court of competent jurisdiction, enters under color of title. He is not a
naked trespasser, and may set out an outstanding title in a third person.

Gregory v. Haynes, 13 Cal. 591. l
277. In an action of ejectment, where the complaint alleges possession in

the defendant, a denial in the answer in the following words is not sumcient
to ut at issue the uestion of possession: “Defendant denies that he has

wfully, wron y, and in violation of the lainti£"s rights, had possession,” etc. his denial might be true, an yet the defendant be in
possession. The defendant was called on to answer, not only the character
of the possession, but the fact of possession. Burke v. Table Mountain 00.,

12 Cal. 403.
278. Where plaintin‘ had possession under a deed, duly recorded, and the

defendant having entered with notice of and in subordination to  '1:
title, cannot be permitted to deny it in an action of ejectment. teplaeas V.
Mans , 11 Cal. 363.

27 . In an action of e ectment torecover the possession of land, where the
defendant simply deni the allegation of the complaint: Held, that he could
not introduce in evidence a copy of the record of a former recovery. Piarcy
V. Sabin, 10 Cal. 22.

280. When a complaint alleges that the plaintiff was in the quiet and peaceable possession of remises, and was dispossessed by defendants b force, or
under an illegal 0 er made by an officer  no jurisdiction, answer
should take issueldirectly upon the allegations, o the complaint. or confeming

I@.lh0‘ll1d SD19  and pcsiuverynewmatter sumcient to 8YOid
them. Laddv. Stevenson, 1 Cal. 18.

281. An allegation, in a verified complaint. that “ defendants wrongfully
and unlawfully entered upon and dispossessed ” plaintifff, is not sumoientl
denied by a denial that “ defendants wro ully and unlawfully entered an
diqosseaed" plaintimbecause such de ' admits entry and ouster. Buseiius v. Cafes, 14 Cal. 91.

$2. The defendant in ejectment ma ‘ deny the title of the and also
pleadthe Statute of Limitations. W‘ v. Gleaveland, 30 al. 1 .

$3. A defendant  ejectment 131:) desires to scitiéaif tlie vbalue of his iniprovementsagainst emesnepro ,'nrustassert ‘ t y roper averments i; lgsnangiwer, or heis precluded from doing so 2% the  Moss v.

34. Poreo1osure.—Where a made defendant in a foreclosure suit, as
claiming some interest in the , sets up, as a full defense, a tax title, he
cannot object afterward- that equity has no jurisdiction over tax titles. Kelsey
1. Abbott, 13 Cal. 609.

285. In a foreclosure suit on‘ a note and mortgage of the homestead executed

husband andgwife, the wife alone answered, but did not verify her answer.

suit brought to vacate the decree rendered in the foreclosure suit, the wife
having been served with process, cannot complain that her answer was‘ not
Yeriied. And her failure, by excusable negligence, to make defense to the
foreclosure, is no ound to vacate the decree, if it be shown that in fact she
had no defense. feifer v. Rielm, 13 Cal. 643.

_ 286. Where the answer, while averri that the deed was a conditional deed,
admits Gist the money was received y defendant on the understanding
that if the money was re aid in six months, with interest, plaintifff was to
re-conv , and does ' cally deny that the money was loaned: Held, that
it ' yadmitted eloan. 1leev.Evans,8Cal.424.

287. The alllelgation in the answer‘, that unless the money was returned, the
property shot: remain in the plaintii’, does not change the nature of the
contract. This isthe usual form of a mortgage. Id.‘

288. Although an answer denies the delivery of a- bond and m e, still
gait by plaintiff is evidence of delivery.» Blanlcman  o, 16

B9. Poe-tsitnre, plea cf.-In an action of e’ ctment to recover 
daims, an answer to the complaint which avers t t an right that plain '
malhave ever had to the possession, etc., they forfei b a non-compliance
vi the rules, customs and regulations of the miners o the di ’ ema' the claims in di 'nte, priorto the defendants’ entry, is insu merit, in
ta ' forth the es, customs, etc. Dutch ‘Flat 00. v. Mooney, 12 Cal.

Q. The facts should be‘ stated so as to enable the Court to determine
whether the forfeiture did accrue. _The averment cf forfeiture is a legal corielusiun, upon which no issue can be taken. Id.

291. Praud.—A case where it was held the. answer suiiiciently presented
the question of fraud. Lamatt v. Butler, 18 Cal. 32.

5  lflzle circumstances constituting fraud must be set up. Gushee v. Leavitt,

298.‘ Suit on note for the purchase of land. Answer set up that the note

' In given for the land, fencing and bnildin materials; that  falsely

represented that there was building mate ' for building a ; that this
material was so insumcient in quantity that it cost six hundred dollars to buy
more, etc. There were some averments as to the rotten condition of fences,
  re resented to be good: Held, that defendant having taken
median‘ under s contract. an retaining it, cannot set up representations,

dulent or otherwise, as to fences. they bei ', in this case, art of the
freehold. Held; further, that‘ a ial demurrer ing put into 1: e answer,
it sets up no defense as to the building material, because neither quantity mir
vhlus is given.» Plain6i!' is responsibie, not for what defendant paid for lumher, but for the value of lumber contracted for, and not delivered, and this at
the time of conlrac ' . Kinney v. Osborne, 14 Cal. 112.

294. The answer is fatally defective, in not charging the representations to have been fraudulently made, or that there was a warranty of some
particular quanti of lumber. Id.

295. The mere act that a vendor of land was aware of the existence of a
jpggment, which was an encumbrance on the land at the time of his sale, and

' ed to inform the vendee of the existence of such judgment, is not a fraud
so as to constitute a defense to suit on a note for the purchase money, where
the means of informaticn—to wit, the coun records—were equally accessible to both parties. In such case, if the ven ee neglected to inform himself,
he is guilty of negligence, and cannot set up his ignorance as a ground of
fraud, unless by deceit or misrepresentation he has been misled. Ward v.
Packard, 18 Cal. 391.

296. An answer seeking to avoid a contract, by reason of fraudulent misrepresentations of the plaintifff in procurring it, must state in what the
mere resentations consisted, and they must be of matter of fact of which
defen t was ' orant, and not of law. People v. Supervisors of San Francisco, 27 Cal. 65 .

297. Where an answer contains a general allegation of fraud, and plaintiff go to trial upon the issue thus joined, without taking any exception to
the answer on the ground of sumciency, and there is no objection made by
the plaintiffs to the testimony introduced by defendants, in support of the
issue of fraud, an objection to the answer, on the ground that it does not
contain a statement of the particular facts and circumstances constituting
the alle ed fraud, cannot be entertained by the Supreme Court on appeal.
King v. avis, Oct. '1‘., 1867.

298. Judgments, how pleadec'l.—See post, §69.
299. Libel, how answered.—See post, §63.

300. Quieting title.-—If the answer in an action to quiet title admits plaintiffs ownership in fee simple and possession, the rightfulness of the posession follows the admission, and even if plaintiff went into possession by leave
of defendant's tenant, he is not estopggd from denying defendant's title.
Reedv. Caldenoood, 32 Cal. 109. See § .

301. Rent.—Where the answer of the defendant, on a claim for rent in
arrear, “ denies that he is indebted to said plaintid’ in manner and form as
said has above thereof complained against him, " it is substantially
the p es of nil debt‘! at common law, and under it the defendant may prove an
eviction. McLaren v. Spalding, 2 Cal. 510. (See next note.)

302. Piercy v. Sabin (10 Cal. 22), and Glaser v. (Jlif id. 303), as to the
necessity of pl ' new matter in defense, amrmed an held to have overruled the doctrine 0 Gavin v. Anaan (2 Cal. 494), and lI{cLarren v. Spalding,
(id. 510); Cotes v. Soulsby, 21 Cal. 47.

303. Replevin.-—Where the complaint in repleven averred that on a certain
da plaintid was the owner and in possession of the property, and that its
vafuewas $1,000; and the answer denied that on the day specined the “ plain' tiff was the owner and lawfully in ssion," and as to its value, evened

that the defendant has no lmowl , ete., and thereforee denies that it is
worth $1,000: Held, that the answer is insumcient, because it raises an immaterial issue as to time; and as to the yssession of the re arty, that it
' uldand v. Sedg-wicll)c, Fl ‘

amounts merely to a conclusion of law. Cal. 123.
304. Blender.-—Bee post, § 63.
305. Statute of Frauds.

906. Aplaintiffs recovery cannot bebarredbythe Statateof Frauds un‘ less the statute he pleaded. Osborne v. Endicoll. 6 Cal. 149.

307. Statute of Limitations, how p1eaded.—To suit on an account, defendant averred that j‘ each and every item of said account. prior to the tenth
dayofnarch, 1859,1sban-ed bytime; and he pleads and relies upon 

statute of the State of California, entitled ‘An Act dedning the time of commencing Civil Actions,’ a roved April 22d, 1850, in bar of an averment of a
conclusion of law:” II that a plea of the Statute of Limitations must
aver the facts which bring the demand within the operation of the statuteas that the alleged cause of action has not accrued within certain designated
previous to ' the complaint. (huljield v. Sanders, 17 Cal. 569.

308. A defendant re ying on the Statute of Limitations should not allege
matter oflaw, but the factswhich bring himwithin the statute. Boyd v.
Rmuknarn, 29 Cal. 20.

$9. An answer stating that the cause of action has not accrued within
in years, is sutiicient for nve years; and for any period of limitation named
in the statute less than nve years. Id.

310. In pleadi the Statute of Limitations it was alleged “ that the plaintid
is not entitled to ve or maintain this action, because the laintiif was not
seized or possessed of the real estate described in said com ' t within five
years next before the commencement of this action.” H , that the statementwas fatally defective. There was no averment that the plaintifff '3 predecessor or granter was not possessed within dve years; nor was an adverse

‘on alleged for any period of time anterior to the action. Sharp v.
p , Oct. '1‘. 1867.
p 311. The defense of the Statute of Limitations is a monal privilege of
the debtor, which he may assert or waive at his option; ut it must be set up
in some form, either by demurrer or answer, or it will be deemed to have
been waived. Graltan v. Wiggins, 23 Cal. 16, 9 46. _

312. Defendant set up as a defense “ that the title of the said plaintifff, if
any he has to said premises, did not accrue within dve years prior to the
commencement of this suit, and that he has not been in possession thereof
within five years prior to this suit.” Held, not to be a plea of the Statute of
Limitations. .HcKa v. Pctaluma Lodge, Rayburn et al.9., A ril 'l‘., 1866.

313. An answer w ‘ch avers that “ if lamtifs ever any right or title
totheirclaims, ortoanytportion thereo , they are barred by the Statute of
 as they, the efendants, have been in quiet and peaceable possessionoftheaame,adverseltothese laintiEs,i’ora 'odoverdve

years," is not a cod lea to e Statute Limitations. T Mountain Tuaad 00. v. Sb-auaian, 1 Cal. 387.

314. The general allegation in answer, that the action is barred the statute ‘hing two or any other number of years as the limitation r bri

38‘
ing e action, 1! not the correct method of pleading the Statute of Limitations. Schroederv. Johns, 27 Cal. 278.

315. lfthe complaint in an action against an administrator avers that the
intestate received plaintin"s money in his life time, to keep the same for plaintil as the depositary thereof until the same should he demanded of him, and
that the mono remained in the .intestate’s hands at the time of his death, subject
to the plain ’e order, an answer which sets up as a defense that the cause of
action did not accrue to plaintifff within two years next before the death of the

intestate, and that the same is barred by the Statute of Limitations, does not
raiseanissueinthecase. Id.

316. Where a party desires to avail himself of the statute, which provides
that no action for the recove of any estate sold by an executor or administrator,
shall be maintained by anyrlleir or other person claiming under the deceased
to.-stator or intestate, unless it be commenced within three years next after the
Isle, he must plead it. The objection that the action is barred cannot be taken to
the admissibility of evidence, when the statute has not been pleaded. Masks v.
Erin, 20 Cal. 620.

317. A party relying upon an adverse possession of Eve years of land owned
by himself and the adverse party as tenants in common, must allege by pleading
facts from which it will atllrmatively plpspear that his possession was of an adverse and hosfile character, otherwise possession of e land, though exclusive,
will be deemed according to his right and in support of the title in common.
Lndcv. Diaz, 30 Cal. 65. '

_ 318. The party claimin a right to the use of water by live years’ adverse
poueuion must set up same as a defense in his answer, and if he does

not, he loses the right to introduce evidence in su port of it. and to have the
Court instruct the jury in relation to it. American go. v. Bradford, 27 Cal. 360.

319. The Statute of Limitations runs on] in favor of parties in possession
 title adversely to the whole svorl , and not in favor of those who
assert e title to be in others. It, thereforee, never run in favor of the plaintit,
and the grantees of the plaintiff are in no better position. Their possession
cannot be tacked on to that of the grantor, so as to render adverse die possession for the entire period subsequent to the sale. Field, 0. J. Mccraclcas
v. City of San Francisco, 16 Cal. 591.

320. To render possession adverse, so as to set the Statute of Limitation in
motion, it must be accompanied with a claim of title, and this claim, when
founded “ upon a written instrument as bein a conveyance of the premises,"
must be asserted by the occupant in good feign, in the belief that he has
right to the emises, and with the intention to hold them against the
world. The c ' must be absolute—not dependent upon any contingenciesand must be “ exclusive of any other right;" and, to render the adverse possession thus commenced effectual as a bar to a recovery by the true owner, the
possession must be continued without interruption, under such claim, for nve
years. When parties assert, either by declaration or conduct, the title to

roperty to be in others, the statute cannot, of course, run in their favor.
ghost‘ possession, under such circumstances, is not adverse. Id.

321. An equitable action, to set aside a fraudulent deed of real estate, when
the efect would be to restore the possession to the defrauded p , is an
action for the recovery of real estate, and verned by the Statute of 
tions a licable to such  City ofgtbakland v. Oarpentier, 13 Cal. 540.

322. ‘ere, to ejectment on a patent to plaintiffs for land from the United
States, defendants plead possession in themselves, and the parties through
whom they claim, for five ears before the commencement of the action, on
the fourth’ of March, 186 , but admitted the issuance of the tent on the
nineteenth of February, 1865: Held, that the plea is of no av ' , because the
admission shows‘ laintifs were seized of the premises within the nve years.
Fremont v. Seals, 8 Cal. 433.

323. If the demand be in truth barred, but the fact does not ap prion
he face of the com laint, the defense must be made in the answer. Sm’ v.
Richmond, 19 Cal. 76.

324. Statutes of Iaimitation do not act retrospectively; the do not '
to run until theypare assed, and consequently cannot be eaded until

aIl'io;i3%xed by them fully run since their passage. elsoa v. Nelson, 6

325. Whenthe plea of the statute is claimed as a mere legal right, it must
be pleadged £1 tilseo first instance, and has no day of grace thereafter. Ooolcs v.
Spears, U . .

326. In this State, the Statute of Limitations applies equally to actions at
law and to suite in equity. It is directed to the subject matter and not to
the form of the action, or to the forum in which the action is prosecuted. Nor
is there any distinction in the limitation prescribed between simple contracts
1;  and specialities. Lord v. Morris, 18 Cal. 482; Boyd v. Blanlcmast,

327. Statute of Inim!tations.—See demurrer, §40.
328. Private statutes, how pleaded.—See post, § 61.

329. Tax t:it.le.—Whenever a tax title is speciall set forth in a pleading, it
h necessary that every fact should be averred whic is requisite to show that
each of the statutory provisions have been complied with. This necessity is
not obviated by the provisions making the tax deed proof of certain facts.
Russell v. Mann, 22 Cal. 131. ,

, 330. In pleading a tax title, it is necessary to aver those facts which sections
18 :aindI¢212 of the revenue act of 1857 are required to be statedin the tax
dee . .

331. A pleading, settlin (up a tax title, must aver distinc , for what year the
tax was assessed, and faihgng to do so, is dexnun-able. Id. uy

332. ‘render. plea at where there are two kinds of money. If, by the laws
of the United States, there is more than one kind of lawful mone , a legal tender
in payment of debts, and the plaintifff in an action is entitle to ajudgment

le in a particular kind of money, a plea of tender which avers the tender
to we been made in lawful money of the United States, is insumcient. The
plea should aver that the tender was made in the kind of money the plaintifff is
entitled to receive. Hagraw ,v. .McGlynn, 26 Cal. 428.

333. '.l.'respass.—In an action of trespass, where there is no specilic denial
of the amount of damages alleged in the com taint, although the alleged cause
of damage is specially traversed, it is doubt. 11] whether such answer amounts
to a denial of the damage. Rowe v. Br , 12 Cal. 226.

334. In an action for a trespass upon lan , alleged by the complaint to be in
the poms-ssion of the plaintiff at the time of the unlawful entry thereon by the
detendants, it is not a suiiicient traverse of the allegation of possession for the
defendants to ever, in their answer, that to the best of their information and
belief they did not commit the grievance upon any land in the lawful possession
of plaintim .HcCorm1°cIc v. Baily, 10 Cal. 230. '

885. In trespass quare clausum fregit, where the complaint avers matters of
aggravation after the entry, an answer justifying the aggravatin matter,
but  plaintiffs title and possession, does not state facts cient to
.constitute a efense. Pica v. Colmas, 32 Cal. 578.

836. In. quare clausumfregit, an answer justif ' merel because
the defendant an easement on the land, contains no efense. I .

337. Undertaking and sealed instruments.——Conceding that there is a
necessary discregncy between the condition and the penal portion of the
hand, it cannot set up by the obligate, as the bond would be single, and,
in a suit thereon, the plaintifff would be entitled to the full amount. Swain V.
Gr-ova, 8 Cal. 549. 2

338. The law imparts a consideration to a sealed instrument £rom its seal.
At common law, a want of consideration could not he pleaded to a suit on 'a
sealed instrument, the presumption of a consideration being absolute and
conclusive. The statute of this State has not altered the presumption of a
consideration which still accom anies the instrument, but only modified the
rule so far as to aBow it to be re tted in the answer. Mc0arty'v. Beach, 10
Cal. 481; Wide 17.’ Kempt, 17 Cal. .96.

339. Where an answer contains an» all tion of alteration in an instrument,
it must state that such alteration was m e with the knowledge or consent, or
by the authority of the plaintifff. Hamphreys v. Cram, 5 Cal. 173.

510. In an action on an undertaking executed by and on behalf of the defendants in a ju ent in ejectment, conditioned to pay the value of the use
and occupation o the premises pending the appeal, an answer setting up that

' the appeal the plaintiil‘ conveyed 9. art of the premises to one or more
of the efendants in the judgment, and leased portions to other parties
grass not state facts sumcient to constitute a defense. De0astro v. Clarke, 29

. ll. ‘

34]. Such answer failing to show when the conveyance was made, it will

be deeixied not to have been made until the last day the appeal was pend. Such answer is also defective in not stating that the use and occupation of Itthe portions of the premises conveyed and leased was of any

547. ‘Counter claim.

The counterclaim mentioned in the last section shall be
one existing in favor of the defendant or plaintifff, and against
a plaintiff or defendant, between whom a. several judgment
might be had in the action, and arising out of one of the following causes of action :

1st. A cause of action arising out of the transaction set
forth in the complaint or answer, as the foundation of the
plaintiii"s claim, or defendant's defense, or connected with
the subject of the action.

2d. In an action arising upon contract; any other cause

of action arising also upon contract and existing at the commencement of the action.

‘Amended Stat. 1860, 299; N. 'Y. Code, §'150; see ante, § 5, Abb. Forms,
No. 1090, 1091.

1. 8019-06 at law.—'1‘o authorize a set-of at law, the debts must be between the ‘es in their own ri ts, and must be of the same kind and
uality, an be clearly ascertain or li uidated; they must be certain and
etermined debts. Naglee v. Palmer, 7 C . 543. [Commented on in Duf v.
Hobbs, 19 Cal. 646, and not approved.]

2. Assignment before not:ice.—When a creditor, having a debt due him
by mortgage, assigns the debt and mortgage, a judgment in favor of a third
Er-sou against the creditor purchased by e debtor atler the assignment, but

fore notice to him, constitutes an off-set a turtle to the debt in an action
upon itbythe assignee. Mccabe v. Grey, Cal.509; seeante, $5.

3. Breach of warranty, defense by way of recoupment.—In an action for the price of goods sold and delivered, there being a warranty as to
the quality of the goods, the breach of the warranty may be relied on in defense by way of recoupment to mitigate the amount recovered ; but it is not

‘available as a complete defense to the action. Earl v. Bull, 15 Cal. 425.

4. Counter claims, recoupment and set-offs in actions on contract.
Plaintid‘ sues for balance due on a contract for erecting a building, and a
small sum for extra work. Defendant seeks to ofset a claim for two and onethird months’ rent lost by him, because of the neglect of plaintifff to nnish
the building within the time specified in the contract, defendant having at
the date of the contract leased the building to responsible tenants, the lease
to take effect from the time named in the contract for its completion. Held,
that defendant cannot offset his rents, because the circumstances show that
the contract was modined the parties as to the time for the completion of
the building. McGinley v. ard , 18 Cal. 115.

5. If a merchant em loys one y written contract, at a stated salary, to act
as his chief clerk managing agent for a stated time, and an action is
brought by the clerk on the contract for wages, and the answer sets up a
counterclaim for damages arisi out of neglect of the clerk to attend to the
business, the defendant has a rig t on the trial to introduce evidence of a loss
of his pronts and discontinuation of business caused by the clerk's neglect;
and to do this, he may ask a witness what amount of additional business
would have been done if the clerk had attended to his business. Stoddard v.
Treadwell, 26 Cal. 300.

6. When the plaintifffs action arises out of contract, defendant may introduce evidence of an counterclaim ari ' out of contract existing at
the comlidnencement of e action, even thong the contracts are not the
same. .

7. When the claim of plaintid and counterclaim of defendant both arise
out of the same contract, defendant may introduce evidence of unliquidated
damages embraced in his counterclaim, unless the plaintifff come to the contract ‘alassignment. Id.

8. en an action is based upon a contract to pay a stipulated sum, and the
answer sets up a counterclaim for damages for matters  out of the
same contract, the defendant cannot, on the trial, introduce evi ence of any

except those specially set up in the answer. Id.
9. the complaint is based on a written contract, by the terms of which

phintiiis to do certain things, and the complaint avers afaithful rbrmancs

on his and the answer denies the performance, the defen t cannot,
urida ' allegation and denial, introduce evidence of a counterclaim. Id.

10. Where one is employed by another under a contract, at a stated salary,

yable monthly or at a stated time, to act as his clerk or transact business for
Em. and the employee neglects the business, the em loyer is not precluded
frorn ' ' ' anaction for damages for this neg ect, by payment in full
of the employer s wages, or by allowing the employee to sue and recover
Judgment, y ref:-aimng from inter-posing any counterclaim for a breach of
the emplo ee’s contract. Id.

11. M. . '1‘. ' indebtedtoV.inthesumof sixhundred and seven one dollars, lain ' , for the accommodation of the debtors, procured E.
assume the ebt and execute to V. his (E.’s) note for the amount, and to secure E., plaintiff assigned to him a note and mortgage of M. for $2,000, with
an agreement that the latter should be re-transferred to laintif upon the
Eyrnent by him to E. of the amount of his (E.’s) note to . Subsequently,

died, having in his hands at the time $1,400 belonging to M. and received
by E. as rents and pronts of a certain ditch, of which he and M. were 'oint
owners. Defendants were appointed administrators of E. and receiv the
8l,4(I) as assets of deceased, and afterwards from the funds of the estate paid
the six hundred and seventy-one dollar note to V. The action is brought to
compel defendants to re-deliver to plaintifff the $2,000 note and mortgage, he
claiming that the transaction above stated amounted to a Jment by him of
the debt for which they had been pledged as securi . E d, that the facts
did not show a payment of E. ’s note to V. by Iain ' ; that they only established that there was a balance due to M. cm the estate of E., andthat
plaintifff was not authorized in this action to avail himself of such counterclaim of M. against the estate, as a payment on behalf of M. E. T. Cook
1. Davis, 22 Cal. 157.

12. Counter-olaim.—If the laintin‘s' cause of action is for damages for
the breach on the of the efendant, of a written contract between the
parties, the defen nt y in in his answer a counterclaim for damaM gen for a breach of the contract y plaintidh. Dennis v. Bell, 30 Cal. 247 .

13. Counter-claim. what ls.—A counterclaim is a cause of action in favor
of the defendant, upon which he might have sued the laintiif and obtained
aélglrmative relief, in a separate action. Belleau v. mpsonet al., Oct. T.,
l .

14. In a civil action for assault and battery, a libel published by the laintiif concerning the defendant, cannot be set up as a counterclaim. cDou»
gall v. Maguire, April T., 1868.

15. Counter-claim need not be set up, when.—An omission to assert
a cross-claim, when a demand is presented for payment, does not involve a
waiver of the counterclaim; nor is a failure to discharge an unfaithful servant
beforehistermof service hase ired a release of damages arising fromhis
neglect. Stoddard v. Treadwell, 6 Cal. 300. ‘

6. A party does not lose his right to bring an action for demand, which he

’ t have leaded as a set-oil’ in a former action, but neglected to do. Hobbs
v. j‘, 23 al. 596.

17. Gross-dsmandsscto£'.—8eeposl§-18.

18. Joint and several claims --A joint claim by two persons cannot be
pleaded as a counter—claim by one defendant, but he may amend, and allege
ihetdthggghole interest therein had been transferred to him. Stearns v. Martin,

19. ‘Demands being joint and several, are not, strictly aking, due in the
same yet, if the le al and gquitable liabilities on mms of money become ves in or may urge ' t one, the ma be set of!‘ against

te demands, and vice versa. lgussell v. Oonway, 11 al. 101.
. A set-0R cannot be pleaded by one of seve defendants sued on joint
 . Collins v. Butler, 14 Cal. 223.

21. nder the forty-seventh section of the Practice Act, a claim, to constitfete aset-of, mustbe such that thepartypleadingit ' obtain assvetd
judgment against his adv upon it; and this excl esa joint debtasa
set-of!’ against a several one. i award v. Shane, 20 Cal. -277.

22. To justify the allowance of a set-of of joint debt due from plsintid‘,
and another  the-individual claim of . laintid‘, upon equitable grounds,
it ig €.1;':t8t1111m01ent to show that tl‘l):rje(aiXl£ de dug; owe a considerabield amount,
an eir roperty is encum y ju ents, mortgages, attachments, withouifsho ' that they are insolvent, or that the defendants are in
danger of losing their emand. Id. '

.23. Judgments.—-When jllildganelnts in dliudtehretzit Courts are to be set on‘, the
movingpartymustgointo e o inw' _ e.'u ent ainsthJ'
was recovered. Russell v. Cbmcay, 11 Cal. 101. J dgm 38 ‘

24. Where two persons sue as partners in possession for a tr on drm
property, the 'udgment in their favor is firm assets, and the defen t in such
case cannot terwards, in equit , enjoin the collection of the judgment and
set of against it a claim us one of the partners, on the ground that in
fact this partner was the so e owner of the pro&erty, and alone entitled to the
gamageisi C'£1:1he2%1;dgment is conclusive as to e joint ownership. Collins v.

1g:rPlaint.iff recovered judgment against defendant for seizing, as she:-ii;
nnder execution, certain exempt properg. Defendant then rocured an
assignment to him of the judgment on whi the ,execution issue and moved
the Court to set of this latter judgment against the former. Held, that the
motion was roperl_y denied; _ t defendant being sued as a wrongdoer, the
judgment 0 plaintid for the v us of the pro erty must, as between plaintiff
and defendant, be regarded as standing in p e of the property, and that if
defendant were allowed in this way to take advantage of his own wrong, he
would practically defeat the purpose of the Exemption Law. Beck-man v.
Jlanlove, 18 Cal. 388. °

26. Action on an-appeal bond, in which defendants claim the right to oEset
the balance of a decree in a foreclosure suit, which they have purchased and
now hold against James B. Duh’ and James T. R an and eleven other defendants in that suit, upon the ground that James - . Duh‘ and James T. Ryan
are .the parties beneficially interested in the claim in suit in this action, and
that the and the other eleven defendants in the decree so ht to be odiset,
are inso vent: Held, that the set-oh‘ cannot be allowed, ‘as wel because of the
provisions of section forty$seven of the Practice Act, which requires a counterclaim to be between parties to the record, between whom a several judgment

° ht be had in the action, as of the provisions of sections one hundred
an seventy-six and one hundred and ninety-nine, which would require a
iudgment for the excess to be 'ven against the plaintid, althou h, as '
Olin, 6is not claimed that d endants have any demand. Du; v..H , 19

27. Held urther, that the matter set u in the answer is not a defense. legal or
equitable, 11 any other sense than as be ng purely an offset, and thereforee such
matter cannot be relied on as an equitable defense independent of and beyond
the right of onset given b the Practice Act. Id.

28. A decree, rendered u an action on a bond. and to foreclose a mortgm
given to secure the bond, which, after reciting the amount found due on
bond, directed that the mortgaged premises besold, and out of the proceeds, the
costs and the amount found due on the bond and accruing interest be paid, and
that if there was a surplus, the sheriff pay such surplus into Court, but that if
the proceeds were -insumeient to pay the debt, interests and costs. the sherif
should report the amount of such deficiency or balance, and that, thereforee, the

laintiif have execution against the defendants, merges the original debt in such
ihdgment, at least so far as to make it a certain and iquidated demand. existing
at the date when the amount of balance was ascertained, by the report of the
sheéidl’, sufficient as a foundation of a right of action as setpoff. Hobbs v. Du f,
23 a . 596.

29. The jurisdiction of a Court of equity in relation to set-offs, is more extensive than that of common law Courts; and when the defendant in one of the

judgments is insolvent, and the plainti! in the other is not the real party in

Unrest. but a -trustee for the insolvent detendants in the other judgment, a
(hurt of equit will decree a set-oil‘. Id.

30. Where e parties to two judgments are not the same. a Court of common
law jurisdiction cannot set-oil’ one against the other; but a Court of equity will
look beyond the nominal to the real parties in interest, and adjudicate the
1§htI of the partiu accordingly. Id.

31. A Court of equity will not permit a cestui qui trust who is insolvent, to
enforce and collect through his trustee. a judgment against a party who holds a
jut and valid demand against me oestui qui trust, which he has no means of
enforcing or collecting if a set-off is denied. Id.

32. It is not necessary that the demand sought to be used as a set-off, should
be in the form of a personal judgment. Id.

33. An acdom brought in a Court of equity to enforce a set-of of one judgment against another, is “ an action upon a judgment or decree," within the

-meaning of section 17 of the Statute of Idmitations, and may be brought at

an time within nve years of the date of the judgment or decree. Id.
' Where, in the same action, two judgments were entered, one for the
plaintiff for a certain sum, and one for the defendant for aless sum: Held,
that defendant had a right to set-on‘ his judgment pro tanto against that of the
plaintiff, and thatthis right could notbo defeatedb any assignment by plainttil of his judgment -before application of the so . Porter d: Allen v. Lis again hlh ghtto t-on th dgm
ereaju ent. ' stw 'c a ri se ano er ju ent,
rendered in the 323: action, exists, is assigned. the assignee may be brought
into the Court upon a proceeding by petition and motion, and will be bound
by an order made therein directi a set-od‘. Id.
36. A judgment in favor of ads endant-for costs, based upon adnding of one
of several issues in his tavor by the jury, even if erroneous, is not void.
While unreversed it, is to be treated, for the purpose of set-oi!;', as a valid

judgment. Id.

_ 87. Promissory note not subject to a sot.oE—Where a negotiable prom_ note, not yet due, is taken bonajide as collateral security ora pre-existgas it is not subject to any defense existin at the date of the assi _ . 811
meat between thgsaraeg. Payne v. Beasley, 8 al. 260. [Adirmedin Robuspn V. Smith, 14

38. Partneralrlp demands.—A debtor has a right to purchase cross dernands againsta partnership, and to set them u as a defense to a debt due
bcynhigsto a partnership. Naglee v. Mintum, Cal. 540; Marys v. Jones, _9

39. In an action at law to recover damages for failure to comply with a
covenant to indemnify laintif ‘net liabilities, the defendant cannot set
up, as a counterclaim, emands w ‘ch were matters of partnership between
the ‘es. Haskell v. Moore. 29 Cal. 437.

. When partners are sued as factors, it is not necessary for them to set
forth, in their answer, their claim for disbursements, commissions, etc., by
way of set-08. Labor! 77. Chauvileau, 3 Cal. .463.

41. Bat-ol in equity.-—A Court of equity, upon bill med, will compelan
‘table set—o£ when the parties have mutual demands against each other,
1' ‘ch are so situated that it is impossible for the party claiming a set-03 to
obtain satisfaction of his claim by an ordinary suit at law or in equity. Rusuil v. Conway. 11 Cal. 93.
£2. §ni_ty will not set of the claim of an individual creditor of one joint
owner a judgment against the judgment; and if the judgment be nership assets, the individual creditor has no claim to any art of it un ’ adjustmeat oltnthe drm ac?  (flfollins E. dButlerm,h14 Cal.  whom
. equi, erigtoset-o e ,noton statutesof
but upon the t’ t and theequitable 'ur£:liotion of a Court of Chancery ovaits smtors. H v. D3417‘, 98 Cal. 6 . See further under title “Judgmcnts."

44. Irngxovomcnta in an action of ejectment. See § 257, post.
46. Hnliquidatod damages cannot be astol

46. Unliquidated claim for dams not the subject of on’-set. legal or equitable. Riclcetson v. Richardson, 19 Ca 331; Mcbougal v. Maguire, April T., 1868.

47. Liquidated demand. See Hobbs v. Duf, 23 Cal. 596; see ante, § 46, note48. When and how pleeded.—Under the plea of general issue, evidence
of a counterclaim is not admissible, but should be especially pleaded. Hicb
7. Green, 9 Cal. 75.

49. Though certain defenses, by way of set-on‘, are pleaded in the answer in a

very informal and inartitlcial manner. still. if the facts, showing that they constitute valid claims against the plaintifff. are sufficiently stated. the defenses

gught ngt to be stricken out. See facts. Wallace v. Bea:-River Water and Mining
0., 18 a . 461.

50. To entitle a defendant to set off a claim against I demand of the plaintifff‘
he must set forth in his answer the nature of the claim which he intends to set
oil’, and when this was not done: Held, that the Court below properly rejected
evidence of the claim proposed to be set oil’. Bernard v. Mallet, 1 Cal. 368.

51. Damages which do not legally result from the breach of the contract,
cannot be recovered. unless they are specially claimed and set forth in the
pleading; thus, damages sustained bv vendee of oods by reason of his inability

8
to comply with a contract made by him with a third person, do not legall{re—
suit from a breach of the contract of his vendor to deliver the goods to im;
and. in an .'action by his vendor against him. cannot be recouped from the
plaintiil”s claim, unless such damages are specially alleged and set forth in an
answer. Cole v. Swanston, 1 Cal. 51.

62. Verdict, in case of a counterclaim. See § 176, post.
53. Judgment, in case of a counterclaim. See § 199, post.

§ 48. Oross demands.

When cross demands have existed between persons, under
such circumstances, that if one had brought an action against
the other, a counterclaim could have been set up, neither
shall be deprived of the benefit thereof, by the assignment or
death of the other; but the two demands [shall] be deemed
compensated, so far as they equal each other.

386 ante, § 47, note. .

§ 49. Several defenses.

The defendant may set forth by answer as many defenses
and counterclaims as he may have. They shall each be
separately stated, and the several defenses shall refer to the
causes of action which they are intended to answer, in a
manner by which they may be intelligibly distinguished.

N. Y. Code, 6 150; Abb. Forms, 718.

1. If inconsistent defenses be set up, the defect must be reached by motion
to strike out, or in some cases by demurrer. And if no objection be taken to
the answer on this ground, defendant, on the trial, may rel on any of his
defenses as under the old system. Klinlc v. when, 13 Cal. 62 . [Same ruling
re ated in Holm v. Roach, 25 Cal. 37.]

. Several defenses, inconsistent with each other, may, under roper circumstances, be set up in a verified answer. Bell v. Brown, 22 Cal. 71.

3. In an action to recover a mining claim, the complaint, duly verined,

alleged title and possession in plaintiis on a certain day. The answer, also

ruined, denied that ‘mine ever had either title or possession, and afterwards averred that ' laintidb ever had a title to the claim they had abandoned and forfeited it ore defendants‘ entry. At the trial, on motion of
' ' the Court ordered defendants to elect on which of the above dethey would rel , and defendants havin , after excepting to the order,
elected to rely upon eirdenial, were reclu edfrom introdu ’ proof of
the abandonment and forfeiture. H , that the action of the curt was
cror; that defendants had the right to set up both defenses in their answers

and ?.EpOl't both by proof. Id.

4. e inconsistent defenses which are allowed to he pleaded in a verined
answer, are not such as require in their statement a direct contradiction of
any fact elsewhere directl averred. Th are those in which the inconsistency arises rather by imp ‘cation of law, ing in the nature of pleas of confeuion and avoidance, as contradistingnished from denials, where the party
in ’ or hypothedcally admits for the purpose of that particular defense,
a fact w ‘ch he notwithstanding insists does not in truth exist. Id.

6. Where there are several defenses in an answer, an admission made in
one is not an admission for all the purposes of the case, but for the sake of
the plea merely. Sitar v. Jewett, July T. 1867.

6. Each denial of an answer must be regarded as applying to the specific
allegation it p rts to answer, and not as forming a part of an answer to
graced‘ other ' o and entirely independent allegation. Racouillat v. Rene,

4.50.

7. Seconds, $46; “answermustbeconsisten¢.”
5 50. ‘Demurrer to answer, and sham and irrelevant defenses.

When the answer contains matter in avoidance, or a counterclaim, the plaintifff may, within the number of days in
which the defendant is by the summons required to answer:
to be computed from the time of the service of a copy of
such answer, demur to the same for insufficiency, stating
therein the grounds of such demurrer ; and when the answer
contains a cross complaint, the parties against whom relief is
therein demanded may demur or answer thereto within the
like period. Sham and irrelevant answers and defenses, and
so much of any pleading as may be irrelevant, redundant, or
immaterial, may be stricken out, upon motion, upon such
terms as the Court, in its discretion, may impose.

‘Amended, 1854, 85; 1860, 299; 1862, 662; 1866, 702. See Rule XX for San
Francisco County; also Rules XVIII and XIX; N. Y. Code, $152; Abb.
Forms, No‘. 1096, 1153-1166—Form of notice of motion.

1. § irrelevant matter, etc, and motions concerning. See
post, 57.

2. Cross complaint, when to be replied to.—In respect to matter in
evidence and to counterclaims, the rule is the same as before the amendments
of 1866. Those amendments introduced a new pleading, called a cross complaint. When the answer contains a cross complaint, it must he replied to,
lo far as the cross complaint is concerned, or the matters therein alleged will
betaken as confessed; but in no other res t is the plaintiff required to
reply to the answer. Herold v. Smith, Oct. . 1867

3. Bharnanswerawhatare.-—Asham answer is one good in form,but
false in fact, and not pleaded in good faith. It sets up new matter which is

false. Piercyv. 8abin,10Cal.

4. Plaintin‘ sued on a note made by defendants to his order, the complaint
at being verified, but setting out the note. Defendants pleaded yment.

‘ ‘laintii, on affidavits that the plea was false and pleaded in bad fai moved

to strike out the answer, and for judgment. Granted. Held, that the ‘ ruling
of the Court was ' ht; that, under the fiftieth section of the Practice Act.

“ sham” answers an defenses are such as are good in form, bntfalsc in fact,
and pleaded in bad faith; and that such answers, when co ' ' of emanaA  ggéenses, should be stricken out. Gcstovgfs v. Ibafe, J[c0 ' cf: 00., 18

5. If the complaint avers that defendant made and delivered the note to

laintifi‘, and that plaintifff is still the owner and holder, and the answer
. enies that plaintid’ 18 the owner and holder, and the plaintin introduces 35..davits showing, by a statement of facts, that the note is his, and the defendant's counter-affidavits merely state that the answer is true and was put in good
faith, the aanésvég igssgham, and should be stricken out as such. Weddcrspooll
v. s, . . A

6. elevant, redundant and immaterial allegations in answers.An unessential, or what is the same thing, an immaterial allegation, is one which
can be stricken from the pleading without leaving it insumcient, and need not
,be proved or disproved. Whether an allegation be material, may be determined
by the question—“ Can it be made the subject of a material issue 1” In other
words, “If it be denied, will the failure to prove it decide the case in whole or
iln réarlt 211111‘ it will not, then the fact alleged is not material. Green v. Palmer,

6 a . . 7. In an action for the seizure and conversion of a bag of gold coin, the complaint, after the usual averments, went on to detail the manner of the seizure,
with the incidents occurring on the street at the time, and everything done by
defendants, p1aintin' and the “ crowd” relating to or constituting the evidence
of the wro 1 conversion: Held, that this narration should have been stricken
out, on mot on, as irrelevant and redundant matter. Id.

8. In an action to recover damages for the diverdon of the water of a stream
from plaintill"s mills, an averment as to the precise quantity of water required
for the use of the mills, and to which plaintifffs claimed to be entitled, is an inn’rnaterial averment; and a recovery of damages would not establish plaintilih’
right to the exact quantity of water claimed, so as to be res 'udicata in a subseqnent suit. McDonald v. Bear Riva-and Auburn W. J: M. 50., 15 Cal. 145.

9. Suit for services as agent of defendant under a contract. Defendant in
answer sets up a violation of the contract on the part of the plaintifff, and also
certain other matter, amounting to a tort on his part 5 as conspiracy to have the
‘property of defendant sold, and bought in by him 5 circulati false reports that

efendant was bankrupt, its affairs a swindle, etc. H , that this latter

rtion of the answer was properly stricken out, on motion of plaintifff. Bates v.
icrra Nevada Lake Water and Mining C'o.,18 Cal. 171.

10. In an action to abate a nuisance, caused by the running a ditch for the
conveyance of water across the land of the plaintifff, the defendants set up,
among other things, the following: “That said tract of land is situated in the
geart of the mineral regions of said State, and is a part of a public domain

longing to the Government of the United States, and that said government has
never grmted or conveyed the same, or any part thereof, to sai plaintifff ; they
further say, that their said ditch was constructed in the summer of 1855, and has
been used ever since, and still is, for the purpose of conveying the waters of
the South Fork of the American river from a point about five miles above said
land to gold mining localities lower down, and in the vicinity of said stream,
there to be used for gold minin purposes; that the same is fourteen miles in
length, and was constructed for e purposes aforesaid at a cost to said defendants of about $20,000.” which allegations were stricken out, on modon of

laintilf’s attorney. Held, that they were properly stricken out, as irrelevant’;
f;%1'i if true, they constitute no defense to the action. Weimer v. Lowery, 11 Cal.

11. sham and hrrelevant and inconsistent answers and defenses
and irrelevant. redundant and immaterial matter may be stricken
out on motlon.—It is no defense to a note, given by one partner to the

a

other his interest in land held jointly by both, that the payee of the note
had deceived his er, the maker, in the division of partnership stock,
and was indebted erefor in an amount equal to or greater than the sum due
Q the note. Cass v. Marcy, 6 Cal. 276.

12. When such a defense was set upin the answer, in an actiononthe
note: Held, that all of the answer, except that portion admitting the execution of the note and denying the indebtedness, was properly stricken out. Id.

13. In an action for the purchase money of land conveyed by deed, without covenants, want of title in the vendor is no defense, unless the vendee
has been evicted. Fowler v. Smith, 2 Cal. 39.

14. The want of reasonable care on the part of another, who is injured by
&e breaking, cannot be set u in defensetoan actionfoi-dam sfor the
juries thus entered in the reaking of defendants’ dam. v. Sears
Union Water 00., 12 Cal. 555.

15. If inconsistent defenses are set up in an answer, the defect must be
reached by motion to strike out, or by demurrer; and if no objection be
taken to the answer on this ground, defendant may, on the trial, rely on any
one of these defenses. U1-ldiaa v. Merrill (No. 2), 25 Cal. 35.

16. Allegations in a complaint which are absurd, and the truth of which is

‘me, and which are inconsistent with other allegations in the same
cco‘ilnp6l;int, may be disregarded as surplusage. Sacramento Co. v.- Bird, 31

17. Matter contained in an amended complaint is not irrelevant or redundant to a cause of action set out in the original com laint in the same action.
Nevada County and Sacramento County Canal 00. v. idd, 28 Cal. 673.

18. If a complaint be based upon a written contract, a correct copy of
which is attached to and made a part of the complaint, and if the averments
of the complaint put a false construction in law upon the terms of the contact, the complaint will not for that reason be bad, but the erroneous allegaéous will be regarded as surplusage. -Stoddard v. Treadwell, 26 Cal. 300.

19. Where the husband and wife are joined as lpelaintifs, and the contract
sued on and set forth in the complaint was made tween the husband only
and the defendants, the name of the wife as laintiff was mere su lusage,
and not a defect of es under the Code, an mi ht have been stric en out
on notice, if insi Warner and Wife v. Steam ip ‘mile Sam, 9 Cal. 697.

M. In a suit for the recov of the purchase money of land, founded on a
contract, in which the plain ' contracted to deliver a warranty deed for the
ind, the defendant, in his answer, denies that the plaintit was the lawful
owner, or that he had any title to the land. Held, that the averment was
irrelevant. Tliayer v. White, 3 Cal. 228.

21. The only allegations essential to a com laint are those required in
stating the cause of action. Allegations inserts for the purpose of mtercepting and cutting of an anticipated defense, are superduous and immaterial,
and do not require an answer. Canjield v. Tobias, 1 Cal. 349.

22. Complaints, redundant matter, etc.-—See t 57.

23. Practice. motion to strike out. how and when.—Where the laintid
claims that all the denials are bad, if the answer contains no new ma ter, he
may test the sumciency of the denials by a motion for ju ent upon the
Ending-s,or by motion to strike out the answer on the groun that it is sham.

some of the denials are deemed good, and the others bad, he may move to
strike out the latter. Answers consisting of denials, which do not explicitly
traversethe material allegations of the complaint, we hold so far sham and
irrevelant within the meaning of the statute. Gay v. Winter, Oct. 'I'., 1867;

24. The complaint alleged the making of a note and the indorsement
thereof, and the answer was a 3 eneral denial in the terms of the old general
issue in aasumpsil, that the de endant undertook and promised, in manner
and form, etc. Held, that the plaintiff would have been entitled to Ifludgment
an emotion in the Court below to strike out the answer as a nu ' ; but,
Held, further, that he should have raised his objection to the answer in the
Oourt below and had it passed upon, and that having rested his cause at the
ttialonthegroundofwantof an affidavit, hewill not be permitted to*say

33

here, for the nrst time, that the answer does not, in a pro form, conti-overt
the allegations of the complaint. Grogan v. Ruclcle, 1 C . 193.

25. Inabili of counsel to obtain defendant's verification in time, may be
good ground or an extension of time to answer, but cannot avail in resisting
a motion to strike out, and for judgment after the answer is filed. Drum v.
 9 Cal. 422.

26. If inconsistent defenses be set u , the defect must be reached by motion to strike out, or in some cases b emurrer; and if no objection be taken
to the answer on this ground, defen t on the trial may rely on any of his
defenses, as under the old system. K link v. Oohen, 13 Cal. 623.

27. If every fact essential to the claim or defense be not stated, the adverse
party may demur; and if any fact not essential to the claim or defense—in

other words, any except issuable facts be stated, the adverse plarty may move
to strike out the unessential parts. Green v. Palmer, 15 Cal. 1.

28. If an answer is filed, me‘ an issue or issues, and a trial is had, and
witnesses are sworn and examin and the Court takes the case into consideration, it cannot then strike out the answer of the defendant and enter his
default, and render judgfnt for laintid‘ for the amount claimed in the complaint. Abbott v. Doug , 28 C . 295.

29. Parties moving to strike out must ' the objectionable matter, with
precision. Watts v. Crawford. Oct. '1‘.. 1 7.

30. 8u.rplusage.—The averments in a complaint of “ unlawful and
wrongful,” as applied to the en upon the premises and the cutting down
of the timber, and to the remov and detention of the same, may be stricken
out as surplusage. Halleclc v. M iseer, 16 Cal. 574.

31. Supernuous matter in a complaint, when inserted itself, should be
struck out or disregarded, as surplusage. Boles v. Cohen, 1 Cal. 150.

32. What should not be stricken out.—Though certain defenses, by way
of set-off, are pleaded in the answer in a very informal and  manner, still, if the facts showing that they constitute valid claims against the

laintiff are suihciently stated, the defenses ought not to be struck out. Walv. Bear River Waterand Mining 00., 18 Cal. 461.

33. In all cases not within the exception of the statute, an answer without

a verincation to a complaint, duly verified, may be stricken out on motion; and

‘iipplication for judgment, as upon a default, may be made at the same time.
at V. Whiting, 9 Cal. 422.

34. The motion in this case to strike out the answers because denying on
information and belief, and for ’udgment on the complaint: Held, to be properg‘; overruled. Comevford v. pug, 17 Cal. 308.

. A demurrer cannot be stricken out on motion as a sham and irrelevant
defense. A demurrer can be di sed of in no other way than by the regular mode. Larco v. Caeaneuava, Cal. 560.

36. A verified answer, which in any part contains a distinct denial of a fact
méltclarial to plaintihzls relioze , cann(p;;nwhatev¢gl itsldefects, beGt’featedtldtli‘s a
n 'ty,soaItoentie ' ' to’u enton e eadings' . irar v.
.l{cDermott, 22 Cal. 539.1) J P

37. If the answer has the si ature of the attorney of record, and that of
an associate attorney attach to it, the Court will not strike it out. The
Court will not try the question, whether the signature of the attorney of reoord was put there by himself or by his associate without his authority. Wilson v. Cleaveland. 30 Cal. 192.

38. An answer med after thetlmeforanswering hasexpired.-—The
Court in its discretion may strike it out or retain it, or permit another to be
nled; but plaintifff cannot, as of right, have such answer struck out. For

these purposes defendant is not in default until his default has been actually
entered in accordance with the statute. Bowers v. Dickerson, 18 Cal. -120.

39. How to defend motion to strike out.-—When plaintiff moves on affidavit to strike out a defense as “ sham,” the affidavit of defendant that his
defense is bona will defeat the motion. Gostorfs v. Ihafe, Mccahill d: 00.,

18 Cal. 385. [ ee Wedderspoon v. Rogers, 82 Cal. 569, where all the authorities are collected.)

40. Query: Whether this section of the Practice Act applies to any but afnrmstive defenses. Id.

41. Inabili of counsel to obtain defendant's veridcation in time, may be
good ground or an extension of time to answer, but cannot avail in resisting
a motion to strike out, and for judgment after the answer is died. Drum v.
W'hs'£ing, 9 Cal. 422.

§ 51. ‘Pleadings to be verified.

Every pleading shall be subscribed by the party. or his attorney, and when the complaint is verified by affidavit, the

answer shall be verified also, except as provided in the next
section.

‘Amended 1860, 299; 1862, 562; N. Y. Code, $156.

1. An attorney in fact, who is not an attorney at law, cannot sign his name
to a complaint for his principal as “ plaintiffs attorney,” and an action so
commenced is void, as instituted without authority by an entire stranger to
the plaintifff. Dicey v. Pollack, 8 Cal. 570.

2. An answer unverided to a verided complaint may be stricken out on motion, and an a plication for a ju ent as upon default may be made at the
nine time. lg-um v Whitinq 9% 422

3. By veridcation of the complaint, the plaintid can prevent the defendant
from interposing a general denial in suits on promissory notes or bills of exdnengilby requiring a sworn answer. Brooks v. Chilton, 6 Cal. 640.

4. e objection to the want of verihcation of a complaint, where verification is uired b statute, must be taken either before answer or with the
answer. jieldVv.SteamerGwmell.6Cal. 67.
5. A party is not required to deny an indorsement under oath. An indorsee

cannot age notes in evidence without proof of their indorsement. Ymmgs v.
Bed, 4 . 201; 18 Cal. 391.

§ 52. ‘Pleadings, when not to be verified.

The verification of the answer, required in the last section,
may be omitted when an admission of the truth of the complaint might subject the party to prosecution for felony or
misdemeanor.

‘Amended, 1860, 299; 1862, 562. N. Y. Code, § 157.

§ 53. Cbpy of instrument, when deemed admitted as genuine.
When an action is brought upon a written instrument, and

the complaint contains a copy of such instrument, or a copy

is annexed thereto, the genuineness and due execution of

such instrument shall be deemed admitted, unless the answer
denying the same be verified.

1. This section does not extend to other parties than those who are alleged
to have “signed” the instrument. Heath v. Lent, 1 Cal. 411.

2. Where, in an action against an administrator, the complaint is founded
on an instrument alleged to have been executed the intestate, it is not

necessary, under the statute, that the administrator s ould don the signature
of the intestate on oath. It must be proved. Id. y

3. A copy of the note sued on being attached to and made Kart of the_complaint, the answer, not verided, admits the genuineness and us execution of

the note, and entitles‘ the plaintin’ to judgment. Horny. The Volcano W. 05).,

18 Cal. 62.
4. In a suit on a note, the com laint containing the note or a co y, a denial

6f indebtedness is no denial at a . Kinney v. Osborne, 14 Cal. 11 .
6. If a copy of the bond sued on is set out in the complaint, an answer
den ' its execution which is not verified admits its due execution. Sacrammty v. Bird, 31 Cal. 66.
6. If the complaint contains a copy of the note sued on, and is not verii
and the answer denies its execution, but is not sworn to, the note is admissible in evidence without proof of the genuineness of the signature. Corcbmn

V. Doll, 32 Cal. 83.
7. The failure to deny, under oath, the execution of a note, when copied

into the com Iaint or annexed to it, amounts, under the statute rules of practice, to the 'ssion of its execution. Burnet v. Stearns, Oct. T. 1867.
8. When it is found or admitted that the note upon which the suit is

brought was made by the alleged maker, all the terms of the promise, includin the kind of mono in which payment is to be made, is to be ascertained y an inspection an construction of the instrument. Id.

§ 54. ‘When deemed not admitted.

When the defense to an action is founded on a written
instrument, and a copy thereof is contained in the answer, or
is annexed thereto, the genuineness and due execution of
such instrument shall be deemed admitted, unless the plainti3'
file with the clerk, five days before the commencement of the
term at which the action is to be tried, an affidavit denying
the same; provided, that the due execution of the instrument shall not be deemed to be admitted by a failure to controvert the same on‘ oath, as prescribed in this and the last
preceding section, unless the party controverting the same is,
upon demand, permitted to inspect the original before filing

such answer.

1 Amended 1860, 300; 1862. 562; 1866, 702.

1. Exhibits attached to an answer consisting of copies of the pleadings and
proceedings in an action in the United States Circuit Court, need no further
veriiicaton than what arises from the averment in the answer, that they are such
copies; that no distinct verincation of them is requisite; and were it otherwise, the certificate of the United States Circuit Court clerk issumcient. Ely

V. Frisbie, 17 Cal. 250.

§ 55. Pleadings, how and by whom verified. (a.) I
In all cases of the verification of a pleading, the affidavit of

the party shall state that the same is true of his own knowledge, except as to the matters which are therein stated, on his

 

ta) Brsrurls 1888-4, 281.

stories 2. In any civil action or proceeding whatever, wherein the state or the geopla

:1!‘ the Btstewisia. party pldagndaor any omoer 0!!‘ the 8?.“ an its behalf or
capw . Ipsrtyp ordohndmt. shall nooessarytoeruy

pleadxngor usedormedtherelnonthepartoftha8tate.orthepeopleo¢'thesé¥.
or-any .~ to o cerin hisomclal capacity oron behalf of the State. but such pleadingand
papershanhavethesameeireetinanrespeotsasuthesamewerevormed.

information or belief, and as to those matters, that he believes
it to be true. And where a pleading is verified, it shall be
by the affidavit of the party, unless he be absent from the
county where the attorney resides, or from some cause unable
to verify it, or the facts are within the knowledge of his
attorney, or other person verifying the same. When the
pleading is verified by the attorney, or any other person except the party, he shall set forth in the affidavit the reasons
why it is not made by the party. When a corporation is a
party, the verification may be made by any officer thereof;
or wbn the State, or any olhcer thereof in its behalf, is a
party, the verihcation may be made by any person acquainted
with the facts, except that in actions prosecuted by the Attorney General in behalf of the State, the pleadings need
not, in any case, be verified.

N. Y. Code, § 157. Bancroft’s Forms, No. 622. Abb. Forms, Nos. 162, 169.

1. Benet meaning o£—The word “belief” is to be taken in its ordinary
sense, and means the actual conclusion of the party drawn from information.
Positive knowledge and more belief cannot exist together. Humpltreys v.
McCall, 9 Cal. 59.

2. Verincatlon. when sumcient.—If the pleading does not contain a statement of any matter on information and belief, there can be no occasion for any
expraion of belief in the affidavit as to any such matter. The ob'ect of the
verification is to insure good faith in the averments of the party. he avers
matters positively, the verification will be sullicient if his afndavit states that
the pleadin is true of his own knowledge ; if he aver matter “ upon information
and belief,’ or “upon information or belief,” the verification will he sulllcient
if his affidavit states that as to the matters thus alleged he believes the pl
to be true. To require anything further, would be to sink the evident spiri
and object of the statute into a mere observance of its letter. It was not necessary that the veritication should have been made by both of the plaintitlh. The
affidavit of one of them was sufficient. Patterson v. Ely, 19 Cal. 28.

3. Defendants in this case, in answer to a rule to show cause why an minnonon should not imue, filed their answer den ing fully the allegations of the
complaint, and verined in substance thus: “ m. H. P., one of the defendants,
being sworn, says his co-defendant B. left this State for the State of New York
before the complaint herein was filed, and is not in this State; that the foregoing
answer is true of this defendant’s own knowl e, exce t as to the matters
therein stated to be upon the information and be of of efendants, and as to
those matters, he, the defendant believes, the same to be true.” Held, that the
verincation of the answer, though not complying in form with the exact l
of the statute, is sulllcient to entitle the answer to he used as an aflldavit. ly
v. Fl-isbic, 17 Cal. 250. ‘

4. Where, in ejectment, the verincation to the complaint, made by one of
the plaintiffs, is that the foregoing complaint is true of his own hiowl
except as to the matters therein stated on the information and belief of p
tifs, andas tothemattershebelievesitto be true: Held, that the verihcation is sumcient, although the person making the oath does not state that he
has read tjhie complaint, or heard the complaint read, and know the contents
thereof. .

5. If apleadingdoesnotcontainastatement of any matters on infomelien or belief, therein no occasion for my gpressicn» of belief in the verifies» »

t:'on.as to any such matters. Patterson v. 3/, 19 Cal. 28.

6*. The ob'ect of ‘the veridcation isrto insure good faithrin the avermentn of '

the. rty. the aver matters ositively, the verification will be sufficient if

his davit state that the pl ' g is true of his own knowledge; if he aver
nntters. “upon information: and belief,” or “ upon information or belief," the

verification will be sumcient if his affidavit state, as to the matters thus

avcrred, he believes the pleading to be true; Id. A~ve1-ineation to a com»piaim: iscsnmuient, though made«hy only one of the  Id.

7-. When-.ved£nal1on.may be omit::ed.——The vecihoation of an answer
may be omitted whenever the defendant would be excused from testif  as-'

3-Eiatrinefasatothehuthofanynmderdeniedbynchanswer. Drusw. hzhng,

8. Objections to verifications, how talren.—The objection to the want
of verification of a complaint,‘ wh‘ereverint:at:ion'is*re ‘ edby statute, must‘:
bsutaken: eitherzbeforepansweror-withanswen. The-. ' of an.-answeris 0.waiver. Greenfield v. Steamer Gwmell, 6 Cal..69.

9. .Ver:l£’cat:ion may be allowed before or at the tria1.‘—-To a complaint verified; the defendant filed ‘- a copy of ' thee original ‘ verilled answer ‘by:
mistake; partiestook de ositions ‘under-the leading, and subsequently went to
trial. After the close 0 the plaintin"s evi ence, his counsel then for the first‘
time brought the mistake to the notice of the Court by movin for judgment by:
default, w ich motion the Court sustained, and refused to a low defendant to
then-verl 'his‘answer; Held,‘ that the-Court. erers,vand~‘ should have allowed
the defen ant to have verified hisanswer. Arrtngton v. Tapper, 10 Cal. 464.

10. When the com iaintis verified, it isno error to allow the defendantto
verify his answer be ore trial, unless it is shown that the piaiutin’ is thereby‘.

taken by surprise. Angter v-. Jfdsterson, 6 Gal.‘ 6}.

11. Answer may bestrioken out,.when.—An answer unaccompanied by
a required verification may be stricken out, and judgment ordered for plaintitl‘
as upon a default. D‘:-um v. Whiting, 9 Cal. 423.

12.. Amendment;--'l‘o a complaint against .three- persons upon a promissory,
note» executed under a firm name, one 0f':th0 defendants answered, denying
his lia and that hewas one-of the +nrm..by. whomthe note was executed.
Neither a « the pleadings were verined. When the cause came. on for trial.
plaintim moved .to strike rout defendantis answer for want of verillcatiou;
and--garlic the motion, defendant asked leave then to verify the answer.
The nrtr enied defendant’s motion. and struck out the answer: Held, that
the refuml by the Court to-allow-the» verincatiom waslsuohanzabuse of discretion as to amount to.error. .Lattister.v. Ryam.20vCaL 628.

13. Batons whom may 'be~'verttled.-'-—The attorney of plaintifff being. a
notarypublic, may take the emdsvit verifying the complaint. Kulzlu-nd.v. 8edg~
wick, 1 Cal. 123;

14. A jurat to an answer is in form and substance an-affidavit, and mayubei
tskerrbefcre aOounty=Recorder. IV¢t$u- v. Riel», 13 ‘Cal. 643.

 by'one~o(severalpl.sinttIs issnmoient. Frisbie v. Ely,

16. 111oiB£abo, and-State  lb-'bchII1£'nBed‘ notverlfy. Sda
ate (a) tothis section;
§’~56‘.-’ lléms of nccotmt. Ball v‘of‘partz'culars.~
" It shall ~not'benecessary "fora party-to setforth in e; plead-a
 the. of an, account. therein. alleged, but he shall;
deliver to‘ the adverse‘ party, within ‘five days‘ after - a ‘demand
thereof in m1iting,.a.copy~o£.the:: account,-..or be: precluded

from giving evidence thereof." The Court, or‘ a Judge thereof,

or a County Judge, may order a further account, when the

one delivered is too general, or’is defective in any particular.
N. Y. Code, M58. Abb. Forums, 1101-1119.

1. When and how objected to.—-It is too late to object at the trial that
3 Inn of particulars is not‘ properly verified ‘b the oath of the party.‘ The
put) upon whom a  of ‘particulars is serve if he is not satisned with it,
either because it is defective in form or in substance, or because it is not verined by the plaintiii‘, should immediately return it, or move the Court for a
further or amended bill. Dennison v. Smith, 1 Cal. 437.

2. If he does not, he cannot proceed as if no billof particularswas rendered. Providence Tool Company v. Prader, 32 Cal. 634.

3. To suit on a note,“defend‘a'nt in general terms, without items, set u an
account for work and labor, and for money aid,‘etc. Plaintili‘ asked or “a _'
copy of the account, which defendant furnis ed. Plaintid‘ gave notice that’
he would move the Court “ for a further account of particulars,” etc. ; and on

' , the Court ordered that “ defendant‘ furnish said further bill,” which“
he di On the trial, plaintifff ordered’ this note, and rested: Defendant
ofered evidence of the account set‘ up in the answer, to which plaintitl‘ ob-'
jected, on the ground that “ defendant had not furnished‘ an additional bill of'
particulars,” and the Court ruled out the evidence. Held, that the Court
erred: nmt, because the order for ‘a further account was defective, in notf
stating the 'culars in reference to which a further specification was

uired; an because, second, if the bill" of particulars delivered under the

r of the Court was not satisfactory, and plaintiff intended to object to
any evidence u n the subject, he should have obtained, ‘ions to the trial,
an order exclu ' such evidence. Conner v. Hutchinson, 1 Cal. 280.

4. Wimout an order before the ‘trial, excluding evidence of the account in
such cases, the Courtcannot on the trial exclude." Id.

5. Where a copy of the account sued on, or'set forth in the answer, is‘
called for under s iifty-sixth‘ section of the Practice Act, the items of the
account furnished must be set forthwith as much particularity as the nature’
of the case admits of; but the law does ‘not re uire impossibihties, and if the
 vw the items, as definitely as he can e does not ‘forfeit his rights

of his inability to comply with'a further demand for particulars. Id.

6. Where the complaint in hazc verba set forth the bill oi’ sale, it was held
to remedy a defect in the description of the quantityiot the goods ‘sold; a
$33115! be Omsurgnegdmainow what was 'mtended byhis own‘ account.

'7. C L .

§5'T. Ii‘relecant'or‘redundant’matter.t

If irrelevant or ‘ redundantmatterl be inserted in‘ a plead-*
ing,.it may be stricken ‘out by the Court on motion»-of any:
person aggrieved‘ ‘thereby.

N.‘ Y. Code‘, 6 160.

1. A ' hint,’ whstevermaybethe character of '1-elief sought, must‘state*
oulyinma facts and-not mere‘ matters of evidence; Where this‘ rule has’
beendvioleted, a motion‘ byderendsnt to strike -out the irrelevant matter
nhouldbe sustained; Bowen-v. Aubrey,‘ 92Ca].‘668. _

2; Immaterial malerinsertediin acomplaint is irrelevant; and should be‘
stricken out as suclron motiondnlymade.’ Lareov. Oasanewaea, 30 Cal. 560.

3.- Avermentir of derai entrot title'in‘ a ‘oom’ple:lntin e ectment are_

me‘: evide and uldbestrlcken-outas irreevant. I . Wilson v.‘
, In: 1 .

 words “dul ,” “ y," and‘ “un1awfti1ly',”' when used in‘

ooaneeipu-with’ issue -taete,w _ theyddnotvitldtegflehdin , aresur-I
 be'om‘itted:- 1liloIe'v.'HeBunn‘o¢,‘- Oct: 1.“

5. [Conclusions of law should be stricken out, as well as all matter not
necessary to be alleged, to constitute a cause of action, or establish a defense

to an action.)
.6. See section fifty, and authorities there cited—Nos. 6-21.

§ 58. In real actions, how to describe property.

In an action for the recovery of real property, such property
shall be described, with its metes and bounds, in the complaint.

1. Actions for the foreclosure of a mortgage are not governed by this section. Emeric v. Yhms, 6 Cal. 155.

2. Section fifty-eight of the Practice Act, that, “ in an action for the recovery of real property, such roperty shall be described, with its metes and
bounds, in the complaint,’ is directory only, for a failure to com ly with
which the complaint 18 liable to a cial demurrer; but if the comp t describes the premises sumcientl o erwise to identify them accordmggt-o the
general rules on this subject, e plaintifff may after verdict take ju ent,
and the Court cannot set it aside on motion of defendant on account of this
defect of pleading. Buclcman v. Whitney, 19 Cal. 300.

3.‘ Where a complaint in e ectment describes the land thus: “All that certain tract or parcel of Ian situated in Napa coun , consisting of a preemption claim of one hundred and sixty acres of Ian , commonly hiown as
the Soda Springs, and embracing said springs and the improvements thereto
belonging and being about five miles from Napa City in a northerly direction:’ eld, that the description is suilicient to support a judgment for
plaintifff. Id.

4. Where a declaration describes land by a certain name, this is as good a
description as one by metes and bounds, if it can be rendered sumciently
certain by evidence. Castro v. Gill, 5 Cal. 40; Stanley v. Green, 12 Cal. 148.

5. The following notice of a mechanic's lien does not contain such a descri tion of the premises as the statute contemplates: “ A dwelling house
late y erected by me for J. W. Conner, situated on Bryant street, between
Second and Third streets, in the city of San Francisco, on lot No. ——.”
The fact that Conner owned no other building on that street would not cure
the defect. Lfonlrose v. Conner, 8 Cal. 344.

6. In an action of forcible entry and detainer, the complaint described the
premises as “ about ten rods square, situated within and co ' ' the
northwesterly corner of that certain piece or arcel of land, bound and
described as follows, to wit:” (the complaint n oes on to give the mates
and bounds of a tract con ' ' one hundred and orty-six acres) “the said
ten rods square being situated in twenty to fifty feet, more or less, southeasterly from the house of defendant, and near the gate aforesaid, and near
the junction of the San Bruno turnpike road with the road leading from the
city of San Francisco to Hunter's Point." Said gate was where this last road
passed through. The proof, amo other things, showed this ten rods to be
called the northeasterly instead of t e northwesterly corner of the tract. The
judgment for laintiif followed the description in the complaint; defendant
appeals. H , that the variance in the description of the premises did not
prejudice ap llant; that the question was one of identity, and the fact that
the corner 0 the small tract was called the northeasterly instead of the northwesterly corner, was itself insumcient to defeat the action, if the other and
more definite marks of description suiiiciently indicated and identided the
premises. Paul v. Silver, 16 Cal. 73. See Green v. Palmer, 15 Id. 411.

.7. The mining claim, being a claim on ariver bar, is sumciently described
in the complaint. See facts. Grady v. Early, 13 Cal. 108.

8. A complaint inejectment, describ' the premises as “lot No. 1 in block
No. 23, as per plot of the town of Bed B uf LandCo1-poration, in 1853, be’
on the corner of Main and Sycamore streets, 25 feet on Main by one hun

and {mean feet on Sycamore. and running back to the alley,” and specifying

the county in which they are situated by the terms “ insaidcounty,” referring

to the designation “ coun of Tehama,” in the title of the suit, sumciently

describes the premises. e description by metes and bounds is required
so far as they maggbe necessary to identify with certainty the property.
7. Feller, 16 Cal. 4 .

9. A descri tion of real property in a complaint in ejectinent, giving one

of the lines nnding the premises as runni due west to the source of a

' creek, is not so insumcient and ind its as to sustain a demurrer
on e ground of its alleged insumciency. If there be in fact more than one
source of the creek. that fact cannot be taken advantage of by demurrer. It
can only be matter for proof on the trial. Carpentier v. Grant, 21 Cal. 140.

10. A description of premises in a complaint as follows : “ commencing at
a point in the Walnut creek, three hundred ards north of the Mount Diablo
base line; thence running due east two mi es; thence due south to a point;
thence due west to the source of said Walnut creek; and thence down said
creek to place of begin ' :” Held, tohe suiiicient on demurrer. Id.

11. If the description 0 the demanded premises does not appear upon the
has of the complaint to be insumcient, it is a uestion of fact for the Court
at jury whether the description in the same ' apply to the land sought to
he recovered. Moss v. Shear, 30 Cal. 468.

12. Monumental lines or points control such as are described by course and
distance onl . The intention of the parties should be ascertained b a consideration e entire description. Piercy v. Grandad, Oct. T. 186 .

§ 59. Judgments, how pleaded.

In pleading a judgment, or other determination of a Court
or odicer of especial jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary to
state the facts conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment or
determination may be stated to have been duly given or
made. If such allegation be controverted, the party pleading shall be bound to establish on the trial the facts conferring jurisdiction.

N. Y. Code, 9 161; Bancroft’s Forms, 483; Abb. Forms, 419-422.

1. In an action on a judgment obtained in another State, where the transcript of the judgment shows the jurisdiction of the Court on its face, it is
not n  to aver jurisdiction. Low v. Burrows, 12 Cal. 181.

2. A ' cate of the of the Surrogate's Court of New York,
which states that A. W. radford is Surrogate of the ci and county of New
York, and acting clerk of the Surrog-ate’s Court; that s has compared the
h-anscrizpt of the papers with the original records in the matter of the estate
of William Young, and finds the same to be correct, and a true copy of all
the proceedings; and that the certificate is in due form of law—in testimony
whereof he sets his hand and adixes his seal of office—is suiiicient. Id.

3. Under the Act of Congress respecting the authentication of the record
of a Court of one State to be used in another, it is only necessary that the
ceréhcate should state the main facts which are made necessary by the act,
when the offices of judge and clerk are both vested in one person. Id.

4. In an action on a judgment obtained in another State, where the transcript of the judgment shows the jurisdiction of the Court on its face, it is
not necessary to aver jurisdiction. Id.

5. The answer to a suit on a note set up by defendant's discharge in insolvency. Plaintiff demurred to the answer, on the ground that it did not allege that the note was described, set forth and included in defendant’s schedule. Held, that the demurrer was not well taken; that, under section tittynine of the Practice Act, it was sufhcient to allege in the answer that a

had been dul rendered, discharging defendant from the demand
on; and that whe er the demand was suiliciently described was matter

_.of.evidence to.be determined shthe trial by inspeotieuof-the record. ;HQII,scom v. A -Tower, 17 Cal. 518.

6. Court: of limited jurbd1otlon.—-Inpleading. the judgment of a ‘Probate

-Court, it being a Court of limited and inferior jurisdiction, it is

andapartyw

set forth the facts which glVe.Jul“l8dlCtl0n. (The rule isaltered by statute of
1868, . 95, ch.120.) Smithv. Andrews, 6 Cal. 652.
'7. e law resumes nothin in favor of the jurisdiction of Justices’ Courts,
he asserts a righ under the judgment of, a Justice, must asdh-matively show eve fact necessary to confer such jurisdiction. Swoiad: Harsh
v. Chase, 12 Cal. 3. ‘

§ 60.  precedent, how to be pleaded.

In pleading the performance of conditions precedent in .a
contract, it shall not be necessary to state the facts showing
such performance; but it may be stated generally that the
party duly performed all the conditions .on his part; and if

.such allegation be controverted, the.party pleading, shall establish, on thetrial, the facts showing such performance.

‘executing a bond in their favor, the condition of which was

N. Y. Code, § 162.
1. The plaintifffs held certain security on real estate for the payment of an
indebtedness of M. to them, but gave up and canceled such secéhurity upon B.
' at B. should
y to the plaintifffs such amount, not exceeding $4, 000, as should be found

I ue to them from M. after sale of certain goods and the winding up of the accounts of M. with the pla.inti,0's, the payment of which bond -was guaranteed by

_the defendant under the same conditions expressed therein. Held, in an action

on the defendant's guaranty, that the want of an averment in the complaint

.of the winding up of the accounts of theplaintiffs with M., or any aver-meat

glicit under section sixty of the Practice Act. 0 . _Steam Nav. Co. v.

equivalent thereto, rendered the complaint substantially defective, and judgment was given for the defendant on demurrer to the complaint. Hiclde v.
Sanchez, 1 Cal. 200.

2. The allegation that the plaintifff had full performed, on his part, all
conditions of the contract, is an allegation o erformance su$eien’ti1,y. exCal. 258. E ’

written contractrespec , ,
that in the event that B. ould be dispossessed y le judgment at any time
within three years, A. should pay back to B. $2,000; and should suitbe brought
against,B.,f_or the lot, then B. should notify A. of it, in order to enable hill!
to assist in the defense of the title: Ileld, that the giving of the notice by B.
to A. of the institution of suit against B. for the lot, wasindis ble to anable B. to recover of A. on such contract. Beasley v. Atwitl, 1 Cal. 231.

4._ In a suit on such contract, B. should aver that he had been evicted after
notice to A. The payment of the mono is dependent on this fact. Id.

5. _In a suit in equity to set aside aj ent by default on a return by -the
sheriff of personal service, on the un that defendant in fact was not so
served, an never_had any notice 0 the proceedings, andthat he had a valid
defense to the action, .the allegations relative to this defense showed that jt
was based upon an executory agreement, b the terms of which certain things
were to be done by laintilf, and in con ' eration thereof he was to be released form the e t for which the action was brought. Held, that the allegations are insuiiicient in this, that they do not state that any of these

things were performed _by him, or thathe ever offered, or was, or has been at

any tI1me,l ready %:  peiaform thetsatrntg.  v. Sc.l¢;ltt,1,115 Cal. 
._npeading e uneranaco e _ slaturew'o prescri

conditions upon the performance of which the  may be recovered, it is

'to aver .a1pd-!amnmee'=o! all athenaots  bytheretatute.

People v. Jackson at al., 24 Cal. 632.

_ 7.  general averment of the performance of oonditionsnpzecedent, is sumeaent in cases of contract, but, in all other oases,.the facts» wing aypenformance must be specially pleaded. Id. , '

8. I1"the oantraotsnedan-is execntory,-and each: ‘haasomethhg to

-perform before the other can be placed. completely in efault, the,party seek«ertenderof or.a readineseto ~
Ft-ink, so cal‘ .486. Seexfurther, ante, 939, 0.123.

rig to enforce it -against the other must» aver » in his oomglaintn Iperlormiioe
' part. Bar:-om.v.

§ 61. Private statutes, how-,to be pleaded.

In pleading a private statute, or 'arright~.deri=ved ‘therefrom,
it shall be sufficient’ to refer ‘to such ‘statute byits title -and
the day of its 'passage,»and the Court shall thereupontalre

judicial notice thereof.
N. Y..Code, §163; Van Sant. Pleadings, 270, 496; 5 Band. 153.

1. When a pleeder  to avail himself of a-statutory privilege, or ' t

given by particular facts, he must show the facts; thesefaots which‘ e

-statute requires as. the foundational the right must be stated in the complaint.
-.Dge.v.,I,lye, 11 Cal. 163.

§ 62. Libel and slander, how stated in the complaint.

In an action for libel 'or~ slander, it:sha'll'not'be necessary
‘to statein the complaint any extrinsicfacts for:the purpose of
showing the application "to =the plaintifff of the defamatory
matter out of which the 'cause°of action arose ; Shut it -shall
‘he suilicient to state generally, that "the mine was published
‘or spoken concerningthe plaintifff; and if such.alleg:ation the
controverted, the :- plaintifff shall establish, an the ‘trial, '.that<it
wasso published or-spoken.

N. Y. Code, 6164; Abb.‘Forms,'598-807.

1. Wor‘ds,.whieh eon‘ theirface appeurtoubeentirelyoharmless, may, under
certain circumstances, convey a covert meaning wholly diferent from the
ordinary and natural interpretation usuall put upon them. To render such
words actionable, it is necessary for the pander to averthatthe author of the
h'bel intended them to be understood, and that they were in fact understood
by those who read them in their covert sense. Maynard v. F"imman’s¥Fund
Jan. 0o.,:April.T.,.1868. .

2. Variance»--In an . action for an alleged libel, a variance between the
date of the libel as set forth in the complaint, and as shown in the evidence,
is not material, unless thedefense is misledby it. Thrall v.’zSmiley,<' 9 Cal. 529.

3. Evldence.—In an action of slander for words spoken ‘ in the resenee
and hearing of the laintid, and immediately after the defendant ha uttered
the slanderous we the plaintifff replied toithem, which ‘replyvthe laintiif
ofered to prove an" the trial, and the Conrtrefnsed tohear such vproo : Held.
that such ' of the Court was error, as the reply might have qualified or
explained the ereuszwerds, or shown .in what sensethey were uttered,
or might have even admitted their truth. Bradley v. Gardner, 10 Cal. 371.

4. Damagee.—In'an action‘for:slander,*where words are charged to ‘have
-beanepehn 0‘! andooneerning a defendant, use oleek~or tradesmen,-which

itisallegedwmhisxrofession, it is unnecessaryto allege speeialdamages.
Bldla-v.Hmoes,7C . 87.

§ 63. Answer in such cases.

In the actions mentioned in the last section, the defendant
may, in his answer, allege both the truth of the matter charged
as defamatory, and any mitigating circumstances to reduce the
amount of damages; and whether he prove the justification

or not, he may give in evidence the mitigating circumstances.
N. Y. Code, 6 165 ; Abb. Forms, 1023-1036.

1. Justification. what must be a1leged.—To constitute a jnstincation in
an action for libel, the answer must aver the truth of the defamatory matter
charged. It is not sumcient to set up facts which only tend to establish the
truth of such matter. Without an averment of its truth, the fact detailed

can only avail in mitigation of damages. Thrall v. Smiley, 9 Cal. 529.

2. lEal1ce.—It is error for the Court to instruct the jury “that when a
n injuriously slanders the title of another, malice is presumed.” McDanv. Baca, 2 Cal. 326.

3. Proof by defendant.—The defendant may prove the ly by plaintit
immediately after defendant uttered the slanderous words. v. Gardner, 10 Cal. 371.

§ 64. ‘ What causes of action may be joined.
The plaintifff may unite several causes of action in the same

complaint, when they all arise out of :

]st. Contracts express or implied.
2d. Claims to recover specific real property, with or without damages, for the withholding thereof, or for waste committed thereon, and the rents and profits of the same : or,
3d. ‘Claims to recover specific personal property, with or
without damages for the withholding thereof : or,
4th. Claims against a trustee by virtue of a contract or by
operation of law: or,
5th. Injuries to character: or,

6th. Injuries ‘to person: or,
7th. Injuries to property. But the causes of action so

united shall all belong to one only of these classes, and shall
a&'ect all the parties to the action, and not require different
places of trial, and shall be separately stated :

Provided, however, that an action for malicious arrest and
prosecution, or either of them, may be united with an action

for either an injury to character or to the person.

1 Amended 1855, 196; N. Y. Code, 6 167; Abb. Forms, 148.
1. Pint suhd1vision.—'l‘here was no misjoinder of cause of action in this

0

case. ‘When a defendant pleads another suit pending between the same parties,
and for the same cause of action, and it appears that no summons was ever
issued u on the complaint, and that there was no voluntary appearance on the
part of t e defendant in such suit: Held. that there was no suit pending, and
consequently no misjoinder of causes of action. Weaver v. Gouger, 10 Cal. 233.

2. Where a suit was brought to foreclose a mortgage executed by husband
and wife to secure a note made by the husband alone, and the complaint prayed
for judgment against the husband for the amount of the note and interest, and a
decree against both defendants for the sale of the mortgaged premises: Held,
there was no misjoinder of actions. and the complaint was not demurrable on
that ground. Rollins v. Forbes and Wife, 10 Cal. 299.

3. Where a party is entitled to both legal and equitable relief. in a matter
arising out of the same transaction and founded on the same instrument in
writing. the whole matter may be litigated and finally settled in the same action.
Gray et al. v. Daugherty at al., 25 Cal. 266.

4. It is not an improper joinder of two causes of action to sue the indorser of
I promissory note on his liability as such, and to ask a decree against the mortgagor foreclosing a mortgage. given to secure the same note by another party.
Hzsbnan v. Turman, 24 Cal. 382.

5. If a mortgage is assigned by the mortgages to another party as a pledge
for the payment of a debt due the other party by the mortgagee, it is not an
improper jolnder of several causes of action for the assignee to unite in the
same action his claim against the mortgagor and mortgagee and persons having
liens or encumbrances upon the mortgaged property, and make them all parties.
Parnell 1'. Jackson, 28 Cal. 105.

6. A complaint which contains a count setting forth the facts attending the
purchase of a county warrant by plaintiff, and charging that defendants are
liable upon an implied contract to repay the purchase money. and a second
count charging defendants as indorsers of negotiable paper, and a third count
in the usual form for money had and received. is not demurrable on the ground
of a misjoinder of causes of action. Keller v. H idea, 22 Cal. 457.

7. Second subdivision

8. Under our Practice Act, it is competent for the plaintiil‘ to recover real
property, with damages for withholding it, and the rents and pronts, all in the
same action, and as one cause of action. Sullivan v. Davis, Cal. 291.

9. The union in one count of a complaint, of an allegation that defendants
"have wrongfully built dams and dumes across said Mormon creek " ' so
as to turn the water of said creek out of its natural channel, ” etc., and thus
divert it from plaiptiff, with an allegation that defendants “ have constructed
gates, etc., in their said dams and tlumes, which they " " hoist for the
purpose of clearing out said dams and dumes of slum, stone and gravel," the
accumulation of which renders the water useless to plaintifff, does not make
the complaint demurrable, on the ground that it unites several distinct causes
of actionin one count. Gale v. Tuolumne Water 00., 14 Cal. 25.

10. Seventh 8ubdivision.—Value of ro rty destro ed and damages for
the same may be joined. Tendesen v. Ma£3hall)l“, 3 Cal. 

1_l. _In an action for injuries to a mi ' claim, a claim for damages to the‘
plaintm reason of the breaking away oi the defendant's dam, and the consequent _ 1 away of the pay-dirt of the plaintifff, may properly be joined
with a claim or da es in the preventing plaintin‘ from working his claim.
Fraler v. Sears Union ater Co., 12 Cal. 555.

12. The owner of land may join in the same complaint a claim for damages,
as assignee, caused by a trespass on the land, while it was owned bimhia
gamer. and a claim for an injunction for a threatened injury to the d.

oore v. Hassini. 32 Cal. 590.
_ 13. The plaintil may join in the same complaint a cause of action for distinct and independent injuries to property, and the property injured in each
reuse oIfdaction may be the same or diderent, and may be either personal or

14. Causes of action which may be untted.—All matters arising from

--and constituting part of thesame transaction may be li ' ted in the samene:h'on. Every action. under our s , may be terme an action on the
‘case, and any ground of relief. ioh can be regarded aspart of the case

Imaybe includedin thevachon. Jones and Wife v. Sleamslup Cortes, 17 Cal15. Damages and penalty may bennited.-—-Itis not-necessary, in an action against a sheriff to recover damages (in addition to the two hundred dol.lars imposed by law as a penalty) for a- failure to executeand return pnoces,
‘that two suits should be brou ht. Dam esund the penalty may be recovered in one suit. Pearlces v. glreer, Sheri , 9 Cal. 642.

16. Ton: and contract may -be united, when.—-Under our system a
ncause of action in tort maybe united with -a cause of action on contract, if
:the two causes of action arise out of the same transaction. Jones arad‘Wife
v. Steamship Cortez, 17 Cal. 487.

17. Causes of action which cannot be united.-—A claim for
‘for a personal tort cannot be united with a demand properly ccgnizafile inn

‘ Court of equity in the same action. Ma v. Madden, 4 Cal. 27.

18. A claim for the possession of re property, with damagesvfor its detention, cannot be joined in the same complaint, underaany system of pleading, with a claim for consequential damages arising from a change of a road,
by which a tavern keecper may have been injured in his business. Bowie:-v.
Sacramento Turnpike 0., 6 Cal. 224.

'19. ‘A complaint -which joins an action of ' “trespam quarc elausum fregit,"
e'ectment, and prayer for relief in chancery, will beheld bad on demurrc.
iigelow v. Grove, 7 Cal. 133.

20. A bill in mgli is multifarious -when several matters are united against
_one defendant, w ic are perfectly distinct and unconnected, or ‘when relief
.is demanded against several defendants of several matters of a distinct and
‘independent nature. Wilson v. Cbstro, 31 Cal. 420.

21. If the complaintinan actionagainst a sherin‘ and his omcial bondsmen alleges only a cause of action against him as a tr asser, and against

,his sureties, as signers of the bond, and not otherwise, ere is a misjoinder
of causes of action. Ghimrdelh v. Bow-land, 32 Cal. 585.

22. Action to recover dame es for alleged injuries to the person and property of the plaintiil‘, and for alse imprisonment of the plaintifffs person, for

,forcibly ejecting him from a house and premises alleged to have been in
_plainti1l"s possession, andskeeping him out of the possession thereof. Held,
ampropergoinder of causes of action. M c Carty v. Freemont, 23 Cal. 197.

423. ~ Causu of actlonxmstbe separately stated.—Tlle common counts
ccannot all be unitedsin one counts: one cause of action, without any spacinrtgtlion of the sums dueuponeach «several cause. Buclcingham v. Waters, 14
t .146.

24. Comtglaintin ejectment may be for two separate and distinct pieces of
land; but e two causes of action must be so arately stated, affect all the

 tf)5(t)he action, and not -require different p cos of trial. Boles v. Lichen,

25. Ol_2j_ec_tion tomisjolnder, how taken and when«waivod.—0hjection
sto the numoinder of parties and of causes of action, should be taken by demur_rer, or answer, or they are deemed waived. Jaclcs v. Ooolce, 6 Cal. 164.
26. See ante, § 40, note, sub. 5.

§ :65. 1Alle_qatz'on not denied, when to be deemed true.

Every'materia’.l allegationsof the complaint or cross com.plaint.not controverted by the answer thereto, shall for the
_.purposes of the action be takenvastrue; the statement of

matters in avoidance shall on the trial be deemed controwerted by the adverse party.

1Au|ended, 1854.86 ;1860, 300; 1862.663; ‘I806, 703. N. Y. Code§ 168.

1. Seeante§.-16, No..35,ez .,- No. 57,et.seq. Seepo8i§.66.

2. When an ultimate factis a mitted on the record, probative facts tending
to establish, modify or overcome it, will not be c0nsidered.by_ the Court. Mul‘ ford v. Estuditlo; 32 Canal.

3. Averments of mere evidence are not admitted by failure to deny them in
the answer. Bacouéllat v. Rene, 32 Cal.A450.

;§ 66. .'What.z29.ra 
A material allegation in axpleading -is one essential to.-the

.claim or defense, and which could not be stricken from the
- pleading « without leaving it insufficient.

.1. An unessential, or what is. the same. thing, an immaterial allegation, is one

- which can be stricken from the «pleading without leaving it insufIlc1ent;.;and,_of
course. need not be proved or disproved. Wlzitwell v. Thomas, 9_Cal. 499.

2. The following question .will.determine, in every case, whether an allegation

cbe material: “ Can it be . made the subject of -a material issue?” In other

words : “ If it be denied, will the failure to. prove it decide the case inwhole or

' part 2 ” If it will not, then the fact alleged is not material. It is not one of

in
those which constitute the causes of action, defense or reply. Green v. Palmer,

15 Cal. 413.
3. A statement in a complaintthat the contract sued on was made payable
in a specillc kind of money, is an alle tion of, a material fact. Wallace v. El,dredge, 27-Cal. 498 ; seeforther, auto, -50, note, Nos. 6-21.
§ 67. ‘Amendments of course, and qfect qfrdemwvers.

After demurrer, and before the trial of ‘the issue of law
thereon, the pleadings demurred to may be amended as of
course and withoutcosts by filing the same as -amended and
,serving a copy thereof onthe adverse partyor his attorney
«within ten days, who shall have ten days thereafter in which
to demur or answer thereto ; but a party shall not so amend
,more than once. A demurrer shall not be deemed waived
by the filing of an -answer atthe same timeef filing-the dermurrer ; -and when the demurrertto e complaintris overruled,
and there .is ,no answer Eled, the Court may upon terms allow
auanswcer to be filed. If ..a demurrer to theanswer beaver-,ruled, thefactsalleged in -the answer shall be-considered as
denied, to theextent mentioned in sectioussixty-‘rive. Where
-circumstances occurring , subsequently » to the . commencement
.of the action render «it proper, the same .m.ay.:be presented
.by supplemental .-p1ea.d.i.ngs,.and issue ataken thereon in tin?

3_88alIl6 manner as in the case of -original pleadings.
‘A,mended,1854,86; 1860, 300; 1862, 563,; .1866, 703.——.Abb. ,Forms,_1124——
_1150 and 1098-1100. See Rules XV, XVI, XX for San Francisco County.
{Supplemental Complaint, Q. 68 .No. 89. ‘
1. Amendinontl-«,0! course.-—If the ndant demure to theoomplaint
it is an error for the’Court to refuse the ' tif leave to amend his complaint
zbefone the decision. onthe demurrer. d at. Hqalcénc, 80 Cal. 76.

2. Plaintiffs, after demurrer and before trial of law thereon, are entitled to
amend as of course. Barber v. Reynolds et al., Oct. T., 1867.

3. Amendments after demurrer is sustained or overruled.-—The party
desiring amendment after demurrer sustained, must make his motion to the
Court, and he cannot object on ap that he was not rmitted to amend
when he made no ofer. Smith v. reloa Wata 00., 14 C . 201.

4. Where the complaint is defective, the Court should sustain the demurrer,
with leave to the laintiif to amend his com laint, and if the plaintifff then
declines, final judgment should be given. , her v. .Delanez/, 10 Cal. 410.

5. The defense relied on in the answer in this case being invalid, it was
not error to refuse permission to amend after judgment sustaining a demurrer to the answer. Besides, the allowance of the amendment was matter of
discretion, for the abuse of which only could this Court interfere. Gillan v.
Hutchinson, 16 Cal. 153.

6. Where a demurrer to a complaint is overruled and an application subsequently made for leave to file an answer, the allowance of the application rests
in the discretion of the Court. subject to review in case of its arbitrary or unreasonable exercise. The exercise of this power by the Court must in a great
degree depend upon the special circumstances of each case and be so governed
as to prevent delays and to promote justice. Thornton v. Borland, 12 Cal. 438.

7. When a demurrer is overruled, with leave to answer. it is not necessary
that the order in the time within which the answer must be filed. The Court
has power to fix such time for answering as it may deem proper, but where no
time is fixed, the defendant should answer within the same time as in case of
service of a copy of the original complaint. People v. Rains, 23 Cal. 128.

8. Where a demurrer to a complaint is sustained in the Court below, and
plaintifff declines to amend. and appeals from the judgment and the order sustaining the demurrer, the Supreme Court, if it atllrm the judgment, cannot grant
plaintifff leave to amend his complaint. People v. Jackson at al., 24 Cal. 633.

9. If a demurrer to the complaint is sustained, the plaintiff is entitled to
leave to amend the complaint, unless the complaint is so defective that it cannot
be made good b any amendment. Lord v. Hopkins, 30 Cal. 76.

10. If the pla ntiff amends his complaint, and the defendant obtains an order
to have his answer on file stand as the answer to the amended complaint. the

zggsgaelr ils tlo be treated as if filed when the order is made. Mulford v. Estudillo,
. 3 .

§ 68. 17 he Court may enlarge time to plead, correct mistakes,
amend and relieve from judgments in certain cases, etc.

The Court may, in furtherance of justice, and on such
terms as may be proper, amend any pleading or proceedings
by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect, and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for
an answer or demurrer, or demurrer to an answer filed. The
Court may likewise, upon affidavit showing good cause therefore, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon such terms
as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding
in other particulars, and may, upon like terms, allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this Act; and
may, upon such terms as may be just, and upon payment of
costs, relieve a party or his legal representatives from a

judgment, order, or other proceeding taken against him
through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect; and when, for any cause satisfactory to the Court,
or the Judge at chambers, the party aggrieved has been unable to apply for the relief sought during the term at which
such judgment, order, or proceeding complained of was taken,
the Court, or the Judge at chambers in vacation, may grant
the relief upon application made within a reasonable time,
not exceeding five months after the adjournment of the term.

When, from any cause, the summons and a copy of the complaint in an action have not been personally served on the
defendant, the Court may allow, on such terms as may be
just, such defendant or his legal representatives, at any time
within six months after the rendition of any judgment in
such action, to answer to the merits of the original action.
1 Amended, 1853, 276; 1866, 843.

1. Amendments by striking out or adding parties before and after
judgment.—Where it appears by the p1aintiii"s testimon at the trial that
there is a nonjoinder of persons who should have been p 'ntid's, and a motion for a nonsuit is made on this ground, the Court may permit an amendment by adding the name of a co-plaintifff on such terms as may be just.
Aequital v. Crowell, 1 Cal. 191.

2. Where several persons conspire to obtain the land of plaintifffs, and in
suit against them to recover the property, two of the defendants disclaim all
interest therein: Held, to be no ground for dismissing the suit as to them,
ap’ téiply  proper parties and are liable for costs. Dupuy v. Leavenworth,
1 .

3. Whether the Court can, after ordering defendants, against whom no
proof is adduced, to be stricken from the leadin , reinstate them in the
progress of the trial. Beach v. Covilland, 2 al. 2 .

4. The Court ma allow, after the close of plaintifffs evidence, the complaint to be amend , by adding the name of another laintiff, if it does
not adect the substantial rights of the parties. Po lc ensley v. 001751: &:
Swain, 9 Cal. 56.

5. Where jud ent is entered against “the defendants,” some of whom
were not sued, ough their names appeared as defendants by a mistake of
the Clerk in enti ' the cause, the error may be corrected in the Supreme
Court, or the Court low, on motion. Browner v. Davis, 15 Cal. 9.

6. An alteration by the Court of a judgment, without notice, so as to include
a party not served with process, if not void, 18 voidable at the election of the
party. Chester v. Miller, 13 Cal. 558.

7 . If a judgment entered be irregular, as embracing more parties than the
testimony ‘utilise, the pgiper ractice is to move to correct the judgment in
the Court low. Maui v. ull, 5 Cal. 245.

8. A Court may order judgment creditors, as subseguent encumbrancers,
to be made parties to an action, by an amendment 0 the com laint, as a
better course, or by petition or intervention. Horn v. Volcano ater 00., 13
Cal. 70.

9. The misjoinder of parties can be corrected by amendment under the
statute. Heath v. Lent, 1 Cal. 412.

10. Enlarging time to answer or demur.-—It is always within the power
of a Court, when exercising proper discretion, to extend the time fixed by

law, whenever the ends of justice would seem to demand suclinan extension.
Wood v. Forbes, 5 Cal. 62.
11. Inabilit of counsel to obtain defendantfs verincation in tiine . may_bc

good ground‘ or an extensionof time to answer. but cannot avail in resisting .

ainotion to strike out and for judgment after the answer is flled. Drum v.
Whitizig, 9 Cal. 422.

12. Where a demurrer to a complaint is overruled. and an application subseqaentlymade for leave to file an answer, the allowance‘ of the application
rests in the discretion of the Court, subject to review in -case of its arbitrary:
or unreasonable exercise. The exercise of this power by the Court must, in
a=great degree, depend upon the special circumstances of each case, and’be‘
sg %o:lrern3§d as to prevent delays and to promote justice. Thornton v. Borland,
1 . 4 .

18. Amendments ‘to oomplaint.—The plaintimisliould be permitted, if‘
they desire, to so amend their complaint as to present for determination their’
legal rights, otherwise the com laint should be dismissed. McDonald v. Bear
River and Aubvum *Water'and“ ' ing 00.. 15 Cal.‘ 145.

14. It is error to refuseto allow a laintiff to strike out a claim for demages, without regard to the purpose w ch may induence him. Grass Valley
Quartz Mining Co. v: Staclchousc, 6-011‘. 413.

15. Where the proof does not sustain the allegations of the bill, and where
bry‘the ‘proof the com lainant would be entitled to relief ’in*a Court of equity,
if his pleadings had en properly framed, an amendment should be allowed
or directed, to conform the pleadings to the facts which ought to be in issue,
in order to enable the Court to decree full onthe merits; and whenever this
is not done it is error. » Uonnollyiv. Peclc, Cal. 82.

16. The wife is a proper part defendant in a suit to foreclose a mortgage
executed upon premises claime as a homestead. If not made such a party,
she may intervene, or b permission of the Court, beallowed to me a separate answer, the plain ' "having ‘the liberty to amend his complaint, if any"
matters are set up inthe answer which he might wish to anticipate by further i
all ations. Moss v. Warner and Wife, 10 Cal. 296.

1 . Where an amended complaint in ejectment sets up title aquired 
the commencement of the suit, and a jud ent by default is regularly entered,
the jud ent is valid. Smith V. Billet. 1 Cal. 26.

18.‘ he plaintiff sued inassumpsit to recover rent for premises, the posses‘sion of which he had previously recovered by.ejectment against the defendant.’
After the trial and verdict, which was set aside by the Court,’ he amended his,
complaint to make it in form an action of trespass for meszie profits. ,He1d,“
gigs ivazszgrroneous, and shouldnot have beenpermitted. Ramirez v. Murray,‘

a . .'

19. Such an amendment would virtually. change an actfon ea: contractee, into‘
an action,‘ eadelicto. Id.‘

20. Facts which occur subsequent to the dling of the original complaint,‘
andwhich change the liabilities of the C defendants, and in conse uence the
character of the judgment ‘which is sought cannot be incorporate into the
original complaint b e an amendment, without ‘presenting averments inconsistent with the date o the commencement of the action. Van Maren v. John-‘
son, 15 C_al. 308. g

21. If the complaint ‘avers the ’ ownership of land’ in the bed of and near’
the banks of a stream, and work done thereon to dig a canal and build a dam‘
to ‘use the waters _of ‘the stream,’ and is‘ framed for a judgment to recover sscssion of the ‘property fi-‘om one who is averted "to have ousted plainti§:),if
the plaintid asks it, he should be allowed to amend his complaint by inserting‘
therein averments‘ of his prior appro riation of ‘water and a diversion ‘by.
defendant,‘ with pra er for and injunc ‘on. Nevada County and Sacramento‘County Canal 00. v. idd, 28’Cal'. 673.’

22. An amendment should be allowed-to a complaint at the ~request'of the
plaintifff; so ‘as to make it- ex rose the cause of action ' originally intended, but
ambiguously expressed, if e intention is manifest ‘on the ‘face of the com-‘
plaints Id»

23. New matters-ins-amended complaints.-—For the purpose of‘deteiforeign to the cause of action coninined.insth'e ori ' ‘complaint, the originalcom laint must receive a liberal construction. .

2 . Unless new matter, inserted in an amended complaint, is entirely foreigntothe cause of‘ action in the original complaint, the questionswill not arise on
motion to strike out, whether the amendment in the amended complaint dgo
fin-therthan is allowed by our code~of  touching amendments.~ I .

25. Under our Practice Act a complaint cannot be amended in the Supreme.
Court so as to make it correspond with; thelverdict. The District Court, in a“

per case before judgment, may-direct the complaint to be so amended.»
7. Wills, Fargo (1: 00., 27.Cal.. 35.
26. The filing of a new complaint alter a demurrer has been sustained, is
not the commencement of a new action. Jones v. Frost, 28 Cal. 245;

27.’ Batman!’ action oannot‘bs'changed.'-—The plaintin‘ sued in assumpsit
to recover rent for premises, the possessionof ‘which he had previously.‘ res
covered by ejectment against the defendant. . After 'a trial and verdict, which.
was set aside by the Court, be amended his complaint, to make in form an action of trespassfcr mesne profits: Held, that was: erroneous, and should not
have been permitted. Ramirez v. Murray, 5 Cal. 222.

28. Amendment of complaint bemre summons, -issued without ‘ leaveu
Alan v. Marshall, 0ct."'l‘., 1868. 29. Amended answer.-—A joint claim by two persons cannot be leaded‘
as a counterclaimby one defendant; but he may amend, and allege at the
whole interest therein has been transferred to him. Steam: v. Martin, 4 Cal.2%.
30. The fact that new matter set up by an amendment was well known’ to the’
defendant atthe time hefiled his original answer, is no dgood ‘reason why the‘
amendment should not be permitted. Pierson v. McC'ah' , 22 Cal. 127.

3}. An ameudedanswersupercedee the ori inal ‘and destroys its effects asa‘
pleading. Gilman v. Cosgrove, 22 Cal. 356; ones v. Frost, 28‘Cal. 246.‘

32. Judgment, when; and‘- ‘when not act aside.-—Judgment by default setaside on the ground of surprise; Bidlemanv. Kowen, 2 Cal. 248.

33. Itis no-ground for setting aside a judgment by default, that the defendant
was ignorant of the law‘ requiring himto answer in ten days. Chase in Swain,
 9 Cal. 130.

34. An order of Court setting aside a default and judgment entered during‘
vacation is regular and correct, when there, has been no service ofsummons
upon the defendants. Pico V. Carrillo, 7 Cal. 32. g

35. Where two defendants are jointly sued and service had on both, the Clerk‘
of the Court has no authority to enter judgment hydefault against one,‘ and his‘
act.in so doing is without color of law and void, and ma be disre arded or set
aside. Stearns v. Aguirre, 7'Cal.*443; see28"Ca1.» 651: dish’ v.- Ki§'kpah‘icIc;‘30
Cal. 205; Wilson Y. Cleaveiand, Id., 198;‘ Bond 17. Pacheco, Id., 53& -t

36. A judgment willnot beset aside on the application of a creditor of ‘the
judgment debtor, upon‘ the ground that the ' judgment was taken for more than
was actually due upon the note. when itappeurs that a- mistake of‘ a few cents
&y waamadexinzcalculating theinterest due upon the note. . Ziel v. Dalces, 12

r. 482..

31. Amer: clerical error in. the judgment, not affecting the appellant, can
be corrected, and is not a ground for reversal. Anderson v. Parker, 6 Cal.‘201.'

37.’ Case where-the Court below set aside a judgment by default in ejectment,
and allowed the landlords of the defendants toicome in and defend. Barrett 7.
Qtngam, l9»Cal.. 632; see‘ Bailey,v. ilhajs, 29 Cal. 422, and authorities there
cu . ‘ i

39. Eject-ment against K., claiming. as owner. and R.. his tenant, and L. dc B.,.
sub-lessees of R. Summons served on L. «E B. only, who were in possession.
Nolauawer, and‘ default taken. Suit dismissed asvto K. and R., and judgment
entered by the Court against L. dc B. for restitution. K. applies on affidavit for
an-order vacatingthe jud nt, and for permission to dei'eud.- Heldjthat K.
had a right to be admitted defend; and that the judgment was properly vacated4'or.that purposes Roland v. Krryenhagcn, 18 Cal. -155.

40. A defendant upon whom no service of summon was made, and against
whom a judgment has been entered upon his demurrer, after an attorne had appeared and demurred for him without authority, is not entitled to ave the
judgment vacated, where he is informed before judgment that an attorney has
appeared for him, and a long time elapses before judgment. and he does not
show that he has a meritorious defense. Seals v. Ilcliaughlin, 28 Cal. 668.

41. Where a plaintifff fails to appear when a cause is regularly called for
trial, and at defendant's request the trial proceeds, and judgment is rendered
for defendant, the Court has no power to relieve the plaintm from the judgment, under the sixty-eighth section of the Practice Act, on the ground of
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect, on a motion made after
the adjournment of the term at which the judgment was rendered. Casement

v. Ringgold at al., 28 Cal. 335. (Altered by Statute.)

42. Vacating judgment after adjournment of term.—If relief can be
obtained in such cases, it must be by a motion for a new trial on the ground
of accidengdor surprise, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded

inst. .
3843. The sixty-e’ hth section of the Practice Act applies not only to cases
where a judgment s been taken regularly without personal service, as upon
publication of summons, but also to cases of judgments entered erroneously
wimout any service of summons or appearance of defendant. Lewis v. Rigney,

21 Cal. 268.
44. Where, pending a motion by a defendant who had been served with

recess to set aside a judgment erroneous] entered at a previous term against
° and a co—defendant who had made fault, the plaintifff applied to the
Court to correct the 'udgment by striking out the name of the mo ' defendant, on the ground t it had been inserted b a mistake of the Cler : Held,

that admitting the mistake, it was within the 'scretion of the Court to deny

so tard an application. Id.
45. ere a judgment is taken by plaintiffs, in the absence of defendants

and their counsel, and this absence results from a mutual and honest mistake
between them as to the retainer of the latter, relief will be granted by setting
aside the judgment. McKinley v. Tuttle, Oct. T. 1867.

46. After a conditional order to set aside a judgment, the Court, in deciding
a motion to place the cause on the calendar for trial, “orders that said motion

be and the same is hereby denied, and the judgment will remain 2" Held, that
this was a distinct adjudication, that the previous order had not taken efect;
and held further, that this order directing the judgment remain, being the
last in the case, and not having been appealed from, it deprived of all once
311136 pi-eviéus order in reference to vacating the judgment. Gregory v. Haynes,
. 4 .

47. A purchaser under a decree may petition to be released from his purchase or that the sale be set aside, where it has been subsequently discovered

that the Court rendering the decree had not acquired jurisdiction of the subject matter ; or for other reasons, that the estate directed to be sold would not

pass. Boggs v. Harvgrave, 16 Cal. 559.

48. Anzer appeal, court below cannot amend.—When a judgent is
rendered and an appeal taken, the Court below loses control over e judgment, and an order amending the judgment is erroneous. Bryan v. Berry, 8

Cal. 134.
49. Default, when it will be set a.sida.——A judgment b default will be

set aside on the ground of fraud or surprise. Bidleman v. men, 2 Cal. 250.

50. An order of Court setting aside a default and judgment entered during
vacation is regular and correct, where there has been no service of summons

upon the defendants. Pico v. Carrillo, 7 Cal. 30.

51. This proceeding is expressly authorized by the sixty-eighth section of
the PracticeAct, audit is not necessarytome a bill in chancerytovacate
the judgment. Id.

52. In an action of e'ectment against two defendants, one who was served
with summons and e default, and without an service being made upon
the other, a judgment was entered against both or possession of the premO

ises and costs. On application of the defendant not served, an order was

at a subsequent term of the Court, setting aside the entire judgment
as to both defendants, with leave to the defendant not served to answer.
Held, that this order was proper. Lewis v. Rigney, 21 Cal. 268.

53. The effect of such an order is not to set aside the default of the defendant who had been served, as to permit his co—defendant. to defend for both.
A new judgment may be at once entered by the plaintifff against the default‘ defendant. Id.

’. A defendant who, having sufered a default, has obtained from the
laintid‘ a stipulation that the default may be set aside, must use reasonable
'ligence in applying to the Court for the relief contemplated, or his right to

it will be lost. An unexplained delay of seven years in making the a pliestion will justify the Court in refusing to enforce the stipulation. v.
Ilalwney, 21 Cal. 305.

56. A motion may be made to set aside a default entered by a clerk at any
time before final judgment is rendered in the action, notwithstanding the
Court has adjourned for the term at which the default was entered, before
the motion is made to vacate it. Wilson v. Cleaveland, 30 Cal. 192.

67. The Court does not lose jurisdiction to vacate a default because the
term at which it was entered has adjourned, unless dual judgment has been
entered in the action. Id. p
58. If the tenant sued in ejectment has, by neglect or design, sufered a default, the landlord may, ‘ilipon a proper showing and motion in the name of
the tenant, have the defa t set aside. Dimiclc v. Deringer, 32 Cal. 488.

59. Where the defendant moves to compel the plaintifff to elect which
count of the complaint he will go to trial on, and the Court makes an order
extending the time to answer until the decision of the motion, and the motion
is sustained, a default of the defendant. entered by the clerk in less than ten
days after the plaintiff serves notice of his election, is void, and the Court
may set it aside upon suggestion, without any affidavit of merits. Wmorn v.
Oleuuhmd, 30 Cal. 192.

60. If _a defendant is actually served with _process, though sued b; a wi-egg
Ic‘|‘lll18,m; judgment by default againsthim is not void. eople v. ymes,

61. Judgment by default, will not be set aside, when.—A ‘udgment by
default will not be opened unless it be made to appear that the udgment, as
it stands, is unjust. Parrot v. Den, Oct. T. 1867.

62. Where acaseinthe twelfth district wasset for trial on a articular
day, with the knowledge and consent of defendant's attorney, and s then,
two or three days before the day of trial, goes into Alameda coun to try
another cause there, without making any arr ement in respect to t e first
case, in which on the day fixed plaintid had j‘:ggment, no one appearing for
defendant, except to state the fact of the attorney's absence, and to ask a
postponement, which was denied: Held, that this Court will not review the
action of the Court below in refusing to set aside the Sjudgment because of the
absence of said attorney. Height v. Green, l9‘Cal. 11 .

63. A 'udgnient by default should not be set aside on the ground of excusable because the preparation of the answer required more time than
ordinary cases, and d ' a portion of the time the attorney was absentfrom
town. ’ v. Thafc, Cal. 422. 64. An ad vit on a motion to set aside a default should be made by the defendant, unless reason exists for having it made by some one else.
Bailey v. Ihqfe, 2 CaL 422. r

65. A ' ent by default should not be set aside by the Court, unless the
defendant ws by competent proof that the judgment was entered through
mistake, inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect on his part; and the payment of the costs should be im as a condition of setting aside the judgment. People v.,0’C'omell, 23 . 28 .

68. Judgments and defaults, setting aside dlsoretlonary.—Where a
judgment is set aside, under the sixty-eighth section of the Practice Act, and
a party permitted to come in and defend, the Supmnie Court will not interferekunless thergswszlaggar abuse of disc:-eh'on inthsoourt below. Bdmgl
v. . . .

67. erefusal to set aside a judgment on the und of surpriserests
with the sound discretion of the Court below, and ess it is shown to have
been sag rabies of the same this Court will not interfere. Ifulholland v. Hayneman, .

68. Insetting aside ajudgment, the Court belowwill use itsowndiscretian.
and this Court will not interfere, unless in case of gross abuse. Woodtnafd
"é3°c'rkf’ 20Cal'1‘37' fusing r s to tasid a fult based

. egrantingorre 0 amo'on se ea ea upon
affidavits is a matter within the proper discretion of the Court before whom
the motion is made; and unless that discretion has been abused, the Appellate
Court will not interfere. Id.

70. Although an order of the Court below setting aside, or refusing to set
aside a judgment by default, rests much in the discretion of the Court, and
will not be disturbed by the Appellate Court unless plainly erroneous, yet the
discretion of the Court below 18 not a mental discretion, to be exercised es:
gratia, but is al discretion, to be exercised in confonniti with the law.
Bailey 17. Taafe, Cal. 422. s

71. Anorder vacagiilg a judgment entered b default, and allowing a defendant to answer, ' not be disturbed e A pellate Court, exce in
cases ofogroes abuse of discreion by the rut below, Id.; Hotosv. independent 0., 27 Cal. 72.

72. Judgment or default, form and sumoienoy of the application no
set aside.—No particular form is required by the statute in which a plication
shallbe made for such relief. Allthatisrequiredis, thatthefactssgallbeset
forth, and if they show a case coming within the rule. it is sumcient. The
P lev. La urge, 3Cal. 130.

7 . An davit to the eiectthat an instrulnenthas been materially altered,
without showing in any manner in what the alteration consists, furnishes but
feeble ground upon which to base a motion to set aside a judgment. Thyior
V. Randall, 5 Cal. 79.

74. An affidavit of merits, without any averment of mistake, surprise or
excusable neglect, is not sumcient to warrant the se ' aside a default,
where nal service of summons was made. Harlan v. milk, 6 Cal. 173.

75. aflldavit by defendant that he was under the impression, when he
retained counsel in a muse, that the time to answer had not expired; that he
did not recollect the precise da u n which the summons and complaint
were served‘ that he was quite ' the time, and did not as carefully note
the time as he otherwise would, is insumcient to open a judgment by default.
Elliott v Shaw, 16 Cal. 377.

76. Where a default has been entered for a failure to answer or demur, an
affidavit by the attorney that he had pre%;ed a demurrer, but failed to file it
in time, in consequence of a mistake on ' part as to the day on which the
time for filing would expire, is insumcient to open the default. People 7.
Rains, 23 Cal. 128.

77. On application to set aside a default, it is necessary for the defendant
to show that he has a good defense on the merits. Where the affidavit shows

thatthedefenserestsonmattersa onthefaceofthecomplaint,it
B§10¥8u}3.tl’-h3d0f0n3Bi60‘I oharacter,andisthereforeeinsu£lcan.

78. Ans$dsV,itonmotiontovacateajudgmeut bydefault,underthe sixtyeighthsectionofthe P-raetioeAct, mnstshow: drst, that the defaultoocnrred

throu mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable n lect; and, second,
e defendant has a meriterious defense. Bailey Y. ;§a_fO, 29 Cal. 422.
79. Au affidavit of the attorney, on motion to set aside a default, which
states that from the examination of the defendant's case, so far as he has made
such examination, he verily believes that it is better than the plaint_id"s, does
not show that the defendant has a meritorious defense. Id.
80. Amdavtt of mesih.—Amotiontosetasideajudgment,sndforlsa1re

toanswer, willbeoverruledifthereisnoaffidavitofmsnts.‘ .P¢rrottv.Da_i,
Oct. '1‘. 1867; P_srret¢ V. Malwney, 21 Cal. 305. '

.81. Ouapplieation detsmdanttosetaside adefault, an amdsvit b him
stating that the case been fully and fairly represented to , who
have advised aflantthathe hasagood, full and perfectdefense on the merits,
is sumcisnt on" that point, without stating the facts constituting the defense.
Wwdimrd v. Backus, 20 Cal. 137. ‘

82.’ In motions to set aside a judgment, it would be well to state the facts
constituting tllae defense, rather than that the facts have been fully represented
to counsel.‘ . ' '

83. An answer should accompany affidavit of merits.

84. The better practice is to prepare and exhibit to the Court the defendant's
at the hearing of a motion to set aside a default. Bailey v. Taajb, 29

85. Counter-amdavlt not allowed when.—It is not necessary that the
facts constituting the defense should be detailed to the Court, in an amda 't
of merits, to open a default, and where merits are shown by affidavits, in su
335% ctlaéugilter-affidavits on that question cannot be received. Francis v. 004;,

88. Diligence 1u_maklng the application tosetaslde a judgment or

d&nlt.—Thequestion ofdiligenceinmalnngana 'cationtore-o a
judg,ment,uudertheActofApri127th,1862,isbut ortheCourt wtc
pass upon, in the exercise of a sound discretion, and the Supreme Court will
notreversethe ach'on of the Court below, exceptin case of an abuse of discretion. P v. Frisbie, 26 Cal. 137; Lewis v. R , 21 Cal. 268.
' 87. Adef twho, having su£eredadefault,haso ' edfrom the laintif
a stipulation that the default may be set aside, must use reasonable £l.lgence
in applying to the Court for the relief contemplated, or his right to relief will
be lost. An unexplained delay of seven years in making the application will
j:istJLy‘tg)e5Cou:-t in refusing to enforce the stipulation. Rcascv. Mahoney,
2 .

88. Appearance of an attorney without authority.-Where an attorney appears without authority, and conducts the defense, the remed of defendants is by motion for a new trial, not by motion for relief from c ju
m.;1tTuriggr’ section 68 of the Practice Act. McKin1yet al. ‘v. Tattle at .‘,

39- ‘“*°°‘*m...,....:'..”’...-“""'..,. Wm ..-..“‘ °°§.’:.‘,““*a“‘£;‘::f.f ....'“°“
occur su u e o e 0 com an w
the  of the defendant, and in consequerlice, the character of 
‘ dgmerit which is so ht, cannot be incorporated with the  complaint
an amendment, wi ._ out presenting averments inconsistent with the date
, the commencement of the action. Van Maren v. Johnson, 15 Cal. 311.

When suit is broughctzgainst a female, who subse uentl marries, her husband must be made a efendant. But this she be one, and an averment of the marriage be made, 1) a sup lemental complaint, and notby an
amendment to the original. Id. er, ante, § 39, No. 67, Amendments
of Answer by Filing a Supplemental Answer ; see ante, § 46, No. 172.

90. Amerndmarm at the trlal.—A Court may, in its discretion, allow a
plaintiff, after the defendants have closed their case, and before the case is
submitted, to supply an emission in the testimony occasioned by mistake or
lnadvertence; nor is such action any ground for reversal, xmless it a‘
great been done by an abuse of discretion. Priest v. Union‘ anal

91. After the motion for a nonsuit, the Court may, upon terms, allow an
amendment of the complaint, if it would not rate as a surprise upon the
defendant; butif this is not done, the plain 5 cannot recover. Fa:-ma-v.
am», 7 Cal. 135. ~
99. The Courtma allow, after the close of plaintiffs evidence, we comriainttebeamcndexbyaddingthenameofanothar lainti£’,ifitdoes
sJ_ot_a£%ctcatl1i.e5s6ubstantialrightaoftl|eparties. I? §snsbyv.C'<ih&

mam, . '

93. The answer may be verined after the close of the plaintifffs case even.

Arrington v. Tupper, 10 Cal. 464.
. 94. Two defendants filed a joint plea of the Statute of Limitations, and the
plea being held bad as to one de endant. the Court, on the trial, permitted
the other defendant to file a separate plea of the statute. Held. that this was
no such gross abuse of discretion as to enable the Supreme Court to revise it.
Robinson v. Smith, 14 Cal. 254.

95. The Court below has power to nt amendments whenever, at any
stage of the trial, they are necessary to e purposes of 'ustice, and this power
should be liberally exercised to secure a fair and spee y trial on the merits.
Lestrade v. Barth, 17 Cal. 285. See Peters v. Foss, 16 Cal. 337.

96. When it appears by the plaintid’ ’s testimony that there is a misjoinder
of persons who s ould have been made plaintifffs, and a motion for a nonsnit
is made on this ground, the Court may permit an amendment b adding the
naarlne 3; a co-plaintiff on such terms as may be just. Acqui v. Orowell, 1
C . l . '

97. A motion to amend a complaint does not come too late because made
ader the plaintifff has closed his testimony and the defendant has moved for a
nonsuit. A motion to amend is always in time when it immediately follows
an ob'ection to the complaint or answer. Valencia v. Couch, 32 Cal. 340.

98. t is not error for a Court to allow pleadings to be amended so as to
sup ly a defect or omission even after the commencement of a trial. Gavitt
v. gout), 28 Cal. 78.

99. If the defendant in an action to recover possession of real estate has acquired title to the demanded premises pen ' the litigation, and has not pleaded
such title in a su lemental answer, an for that reason his evidence of
such title is excludgd’ by the Court, it is not an abuse of discretion of the
Court to deny his ap lication made during the trial, to be allowed to amend
his answer so as to ogviate the objection. Mod! inn v. O'Connor, 27 Cal. 248.

100. If testimony ode:-ed by the defendant is rejected by the Court because
an allegation of the complaint to which it relates is not properly denied in
the answer, the defendant should be allowed to amend his denial if he asks
to do so. Stringer v. Davis, 30 Cal. 318.

101. When in the course of a trial it is discovered that leadings are so defective that the real subject of dispute cannot be fimgly determined, the
Court, if an a plication is made therefore, should allow amendments on such
terms as may just. Id.

102. Answer, may be verified before or at the trls1.—Where the comlaint is verided, it is no error to allow the defendant to verify his answer beore trial, unless it is shown that the plaintid is thereby taken by surprise.

Angier v. Masterson. 6 Cal. 61.

103. To a complaint verified, the defendant filed a copy of the original
verined answer by mistake. Parties took depositions under the pl ' , and
am uently went to trial. After the close of the plaintifff's evidence, his
counse then for the am time brought the mistake to the notice of the Court,
by moving for judgment by default, which motion the Court sustained, and
refused to allow defendant to then verif his answer. Held, that the Court
erred, and should have allowed the de endant to have verified his answer.
An-ington v. Tuppcr, 10 Cal. 464.

104. To a complaint against three ns upon a promissory note, executed
under a nun name, one of the defengseshstg answered, den ' his liability, and
that he was one of the him by whom the note was execu . Neither of the
pleadings were verified. When the cause came on for trial plaintiff moved to
strike out defendant's answer for want of verification; and, pendi the motion, defendant asked leave to then verify the answer. The Court enied defendant’s motion, and struck out the answer. Held, that the refusal by the
Court to allow the verification was such an abuse of discretion as to amount
to error. Lattimcr v. Ryan, 20 Cal. 628.

. 105. After final judgment rovarsed.—When a nnal judgment. on demurrer to the complaint,  the demurrer, was reversed, the plaintin had

3118 Iliggéoto amend, on application to the Court below. Williamson v. Blattam,

106. Upon the trial, every material all tion of the complaint not specitlcally
controverted is to be taken as true, but the defendant supposed he had denied material allegations, and the Court sustained his view of the answer, the
Appellate Court, when it reverses the judgment, may allow the Court below to
exercise its discretion in permitting the answer to be amended. Fish v.Rediagton, 31 Cal. 186.

107. Amendments to pleadings should be allowed liberally, and the discretion of the Court below lll permitting them will rarely be revised. Pierson v..
lfefhhill, :22 Cal. 127.

108. Thus, where a judgment in favor of defendant had been reversed by the
Supreme Court, on the ground that certain material evidence, which had been
received in his favor, was inadmissible under his answer, and on the second
trial defendant moved to amend his answer by inserting averments of new matter obviatin the objection: Held, that as the amendment was evidently necessary to enab e the defense to be fully presented, it was properly allowed by
the Court. Id.

109. Upon the remittitur of a cause to the Court below, if the plaintifffs desire to amend their com laint so as to present their legal rights for the determination of a jury, they s ould be permitted to do so. McDonald v. Bear River
Wabr and Mining 00., 15 Cal. 149.

' 110. Amendment, nunc pro tunc.—-A Court may at an time render or
amend a judgment nunc pro tune, when the record discloses at the entr on
the minutes does not correctly give what was the 'udgment of the Court. orrison, Adm’r of Ramirez, v. Dapman 4!: West, 3 al. 255.

111. Entry of order of court. nunc pro t:unc.—A Court has no power,
after the arh'ournment of the term, to direct the clerk to enter in the minutes,
more pro tune, an order made at the adjourned term, when there is nothing in

the record to show that such order was made. Hegeler v. Henclcell, 27 Cal. 491.

112. Judgment may be entered nunc pro tuno.—Szoain v. Naglee, 19
Cal. 127. Where, after the death of the appellant, the Appellate Court, not
' aware of the death, render a ju ent of amrmance upon a su uent
suggestion of the fact, the judgment ' be vacated, and a judgment of a‘r,ic3‘1ie1£ered as of a day previous to the death, nunc pro tunc. Black v. Shaw,

113. Amendments should be made in the court below.—Errors in the
computation of interest should be corrected by motion in the Court below.
v. Buclcman, 13 CaL 536.
114. A mere clerical error in the judgment, not afecting the appellant, can
be corrected, and is not ound for reversal. Anderson 1'. Parlcer, 6 Cal. 197.
115. On appeal taken defendant immediately after judgment on default,
on the groun of insumciency of the affidavit of publication of summons, the
3>peI1ate Court will not disturb the judgment, the defendant having his rem the Courts below within six months after judgment. Guy v. Ide, 6

116. Record maybe amended, if there is anything in the record to
amend.—-A Court ma at any time render or amend a jud ent nunc pro tune,
where the record disc oses that it is iucorrectl 'ven as t e 'udgment of the
Court. Morrison v. Dapman, 3 Cal. 255. ' e the term Jlasts, the Court
has grwer to amend the records. After the term has passed. the record cannot amended, unless there is something in the record to amend by. Branger v. Chevalier, 9 Cal. 172.

117. Where, on an appeal from an order granting a new trial, the Sn reme
Court amrmed the “judgment ” below, and the remittitur was issue , and
then, at a subsequent term, respondent moved the Court to amend its judgment by making it read, “ the order of the District Court granting a new trial
is adirmed," instead of, “ the judgment is amrmedz” Held, that the motion will
be granted, on the principle that Courts have the ower to amend clerical
errors and enter a In ent nunc pro tune, where e record itself discloses

the error, even the h e term has elapsed. Costs of the motion not allowed.‘
Swain V. Naglee, 19 al. 127. '

118. Clerical errors and misprisions with respect to entries of judicial pro’ may be corrected by the Court, even after the adjournment of the
term; t the record itself must show the error. Hegeler v. Henclcell, 27 Cal.

491.
119. Where the decree is defective in not designating the defendants who

are personally liable for the debt, and the record shows who they are, the
Court has the power to amend the judgment at any time by adding a clause
designating the defendants who are personally liable. The proper remedy
in such a case is to move to amend the judgment by supplying the omission.
Levielon v. Swan, Oct. T. 1867.

120. Parties not concluded by the record.—In a direct proceeding in
die same action to set aside a judgment under section sixty-eight of the
Practice Act, the parties are not concluded by the record in any respect; on
the con , they are allowed to show the true facts of the case by any comtent evi ence alita, if the question had arisen collaterally. McKinley v.

uttle et aI., Oct. T. 1867.

121. Afterthe termhas expired the Court loses control over cases docided, except, etc.—-In this State, no motion can be entertained by a District
Court to set aside a judgment on any ground, including that of want of jurisdiction over the person of defendant in the action in which judgment was
entered, after the expiration of the term in which it was entered, unless
the jurisdiction of the Court is saved by some motion or proceeding at the
time, except in the case provided for by the sixty-eighth section of the Praetice Act. Bell v. Thompson, 19 Cal. 706; Suydam v. Pitcher, 4 Id. 280; Show
v. McGnegor, 8 Id. 521. Five months is now allowed. Bee 5 68.

122. A Court may, in term time or vacation, order judgment on a verdict
rendered and recorded, if the motion for new trial were taken under advise  v. Boas, 13 Cal. 50.

. urtwillnot rmitted,afterala ot’aterm,too na’udgment u 11 motion, and rend); a new judgment“ Morrison, Adm‘): of kamirez v. apman «is West, 3 Cal. 255.

124. After the adjournment of the term, the Court loses all control over
cases decided, unless its jurisdiction is saved by some motion or proceeding
at the time, except in the sircigle case provided by statute, where the summons
has not been served, in whi the party is allowed six months to move to set
the ggdgnent aside. Carpentier v. Hart, 5 Cal. 406.

1 . o motion can be entertained by a District Court to set aside a judgment on any ground, including that of want of jurisdiction over the person of
the defendant in the action in which the judment was entered, after the expiration of the term in which it was entered, unless its jurisdiction is saved by
some motion or p ' at the time, exce t in the case provided for by the
dxty-eighth section of the ractice Act. v. Thompson, 19 CaL 706; see
also Casement v. Bingold, 28 Cal. 338, and authorities cited.

126. [This doctrine has been uniforml sustained by a large number of decisions, which it is unnecessary to cite. e rule, however, has been changed
by legislative enactment, and vs months after the adjournment of the term, is
now owed within which to o tain relief against a judgment, order, or other
proceeding taken through inadvertence, etc.]

127. As to a motion for a new trial, there is no term.—Themotionfor a
new trial may be made before or after the entry of the 'udgment or the mak' of the roll (Ketchum v. Cri n, 31 Cal. 365; P egast v. Knox, 32 Cal.
9%, but in either event, as we he d in the cases, the motion proceeds independent of the judgment, and mainly upon a record of its own. which may
or may not be made at the term at which the judgment was entered, and ma
be made out of term as well as in. (Statutes 1863, page 336, section 25.) t
is unaffected by an adjournmentof the term or vacation in fleri until the dual
order granti1§ or den ' g it is made; and until that time at least the record
cannot be sai to have u made in the sense of the rule under consideration.

nagel v. Dellinger, Jan. T. 1868. (Not reported.)

128. Until then the roceedings must be considered as bein “ in paper,"
or in “the breast of e Judge," in the common law sense 0 those terms,

and thereforee within the Ju '6 control on the score of amendment. In the
sense of the rule in hand, as a motion for a new trial, under our practice,
there is no term of Court, or, if there is, it begins and ends with the motion.
Id

., 129. Bill of cost, amenmnent of.-—Under the my- on of the
Practice Act, the Court has power, in the exercise of its ' ‘on, to allow
the amegiment of a bill of costs, and the affidavit accompanying it. Bumham 1?. aye, 3 Cal. 115.

_ 130. Where the original bill of costs is died within the time prescribed by
set, an amendment allowed after the time relates back to the time of tiling
the original, of which it forms merely a part. Id.

iii’; dge! changehiitiindin cffactsin materialparhular
. 31: cannot ’ gs a ‘c
aher the entry of judgment on the dndings and the adjournment of the term.
0 ' v. Gardiner, 29 Cal. 160.

1 . Amendment of hn ' . Query: Can the Court, on the argument of
A motion for new trial, amen its hndings filed when judgment was rendered!
Kimball v. Lochmas, 31 Cal. 154.

134. On the day upon which the finding or decision was filed, counsel for
respondent served counsel for appellant with notice of such tiling; within
ten days thereafter, the latter served upon the former notice of intention to
move for a new trial. Within nve da after notice of motion for a new trial,
counsel for aptgellsnt ap ‘ed to the urt for an order allowing twenty days
in addition to s time wed by the statute for that puzgzse, to pre;‘>)are and
die a statement on motion for a new trial, which was wed, but y some
mistake, the order was entered as allowing the additional time for the purofpreinring andnling a statement “on appeal,” instead of “new trial.”
ubeequent to this order, and before any furt or ‘on on the part of the
Court was called for, the Court adjourned. Held, t at the next term, the

J;Ce!t:-1tThz;d wer to amend the order. Spanagel v. Dellinger, on Rehearing,

135. Garnilhee may amend his answer.—To subserve the purposes of
justice, Courts should allow a garnishee to amend his answer whenever it alppears that he has committed a mistake, or fallen into an error, which co 6.
not reasonably have been avoided. Smith v. Brown, 5 Cal. 118.

136. Bheri£"s return.——A sherin‘ has no ri ht, after making a return, to
mend it so as to adect ' which had eadg vested in third parties.
Newhall v. Provost, 6 Cal. 8 ; Webster v. Haworth, Cal. 25. Courts should
era-cise great liberality in allowing sherids to amend their returns so as to
make them conform to the true state of facts, and to correct errors and mistakes. Gavitt v. Daub, 23 Cal. 78.

137. Summons may be amended.—The Court may allow a summons to
be amended b insertin the notice of the cause of action, etc., required by
theAct of 1 1. Poloc v. Hunt, 2 Cal. 193.

138. Amendment, without prejudice to an injunction_.—An amended
eomtglaint may be filed without rejudice to an injunction, ordered and issued
on e original complaint. Ba v. Reynolds, Oct. '1‘. 1867.

139. Amendments to conform pleadings to facts.—Where the roof
does not sustain the allegations of the bill, and where, by the rec , the
complainant would be entitled to relief in a Court of e&(H11ty, if 's pleadings had been properly framed, anamendment should be owed, or directed,
to conform the leadings to the facts which ought to be in issue, in order to
enable the Co to decree fully on the merits; and whenever this is not done,
it is error. (bnnallcy v. Peck, 3 Cal. 82.

140. A party has a right to have his leadings amended, so as to conform
to the prooh. T9-yon v. Sutton, 13 C . 494.

141. Praud.—Fraud discovered aflzar suit brou ht will entitle the
mend his action so as to include it. 15-uebociy v. Jacobson, 2 al. 9;
Hatoon v. Eder, 6 Id. 61.

142. It would be proper for the Court to order the com laint to be amended
in an action where the defendant is arrested, so that e question of fraud
should be submitted to the jury, and a judgment entered in conformity to the
facts found. Matoon v. Eder, 6 Cal. 61; Davis v. Robinson, 16 Cal. 412.

143. Limitations, statute o£—The lea of the Statute of Limitations in
not favored, unless in aid of justice; t the Court should allow it to be

glgsgegogt any time, when justice will be attained thereby. Coolne v. Spears,

144. It is not error for a Court to refuse permission to set u the Statute of
Limitations after answering to the merits. Stuart v. Lander, 6 Cal. 372.

145. Two defendants filed a joint plea of the Statute of Limitations, and
the plea being held bad as to one defendant, the Court, on the trial, permitted
the other defendant to amend and file a separate plea of the statute. Held,

that this was no such gross abuse of discretion as to enable the Supreme
Court to reverse it. Robinson v. Smith, 14 Cal. 254.

146. Referees.—Beferees have no power to allow arties to alter or amend

lsadlings, after a case has been referred to them. e la Riva v. Berreyesa, 2
. 9 .

147. Relief in equity—etatute remedy not exclusive.-All Courts having
chancery jurisdiction have Iiower to set aside a judgment improperly obtained.
The P v. Lafarge, 3 Ca . 130.

148. party is not confined to his remedy b statute, but may resort to a
Court of equi for relief 4%ainst a judgment obtained by fraud or surprise.
Carpentier v. art, 5 Cal. .

149 . The assistance of equity to set aside a judgment cannot be invoked in
a distinct action, so 10 as the remedy by motion in the original case exists.
Bibend v. Kreutz, 20 C 3109.

150. The statute remedy by motion before the Court rendering the jn ment is only availa le during the term at which it is rendered, and to ho d
this rexlrtitedy exclusive would often result in a denial of the most obvious justice.

151. A complaint, in an action to set aside a judgment which contains no
averment showing that relief could not have been obtained on motion, may
be demurrable; but, if defendant fails to demur, and answers on the merits,
and the facts supplying the defect appear in the record, the objection is
waived. Id.

152. A party against whom an unjust jud ent has been obtained through
accident, mistake or fraud, may, after the aggurnment of the term at which
judgment was rendered, and where no want of diligence is imputable to him in
seeking relief, maintain an equitable action to set aside the judgment. Id.

153. In cases of fraud in obtaining the judgment, the party aggrieved must

pigceed by a bill to impeach the original decree for fraud, etc. Robb v. Robb,
6 al. 21.

154. Substitution of papers or p1eadings.—The substitution of papers
(or pleadings in a case) is always within the discretion of the Court, and no
notice of the motion to apply for it need be given, when the notice of it can be
of no use. Benedict v. Cozzens, 4 Cal. 381.

155. Supplying the place of a lost pleading.—If a pleading in a pending action is lost. its place can only be supplied by motion based on atlldavits,
showing what the lost pleading contained, and a service of personal notice
u on the opposite party of the intention to move, which notice must he sumc ently explicit to advise him of what is intended as well as to enable him to
controvert the affidavits submitted. People v. Cazalis, 27 CaL 522.

156. Costs, by whom pa.id.—Where a judgment is set aside, under the
sixty-eighth section of the Practice Act, and a part; permitted to come in and
defend, he must be compelled to pa costs. Ro nd v. Kreyenhagen, 18 Cal.
455. Where a motion to set aside jn ent is granted “ on payment of all

costs,” the 'udgment remains in force until the costs are paid. Gregory v.
Haynes. 21 Cgal. 443.

157. An order vacating a judgment entered by default, and allowing the
defendant to answer, should require the payment of previous costs, as a condihlon of setting aside the judgment. Howe v. Independent 00., 29 Cal. 72.

158. When a judgment 18 vacated and a default opened, costs should be
imposed as a condition. Bailey v. Ihafe, 29 Cal. 422.

159. Great liberallty exercised in allowing amendments.

160. The ppewer of the Court, under this and other sections of the Practice
Act. should liberally exercised to mould and direct its proceedings, so as
to dispose of cases upon their merits, and without unreasonable delay, regarding mere technicalities as obstacles to be avoided, rather than as princi les to
which edeet is to beugiven in derogation of substantial right. nd 11.

Krgcnhagas, 18 Cal.
1 1. Amendments should be readily allowed whenever they will tend to the
furtherance of justice, and the greatest liberality in this re ct should be
extended to pleadings in Justices Courts. Butler v. King, 10 al. 342.
162. Amendments to pleadings should be allowed with great liberality at
any time before trial, inyurious delays being avoided, and the amendment
essential to a fair trial on the merits. McMillan v. Dana, 18 Cal. 339.
1 . Amendments should be liberally allowed by inferior Courts in advancement of justice, and to secure a fair and speedy trial on the merits, and an
erbi refusal to allow them under proper circumstances would be ground
of ' erenee by the Supreme Court. Smith v. Yrclca Water 00., 14 Cal. 201.

164. The legislaturehasnotthepowerto legalize exlstlngpleadings.
substantially defective, without drst requiring", them to be amended. People

v. Hm-ipoea Company, 31 Cal. 196.
166. Amendment: in the supreme court.—-See § 345.

§ 69. Fictitious name.

When the plaintiff is ignorant of the name of a defendant,
such defendant may be designated in any pleading or proceeding by any name; and when his true name is discovered,

the pleading or proceeding may be amended accordingly.

N. Y. Code, § 175.

1. The Practice Act permits a p defendant, whose name is unknown, to
besuedbyanyname. Morganv. T ri , 2 Cal. 562.

2. If a bond has to be executed by t e plaintiff. and is executed to the defendant by a wrong name, the latter has his remedy, and may describe it as
given to him, and may show that he was the party intended. Id.

3. The defendant was sued and served by the name of George Mott, and
judgment entered against him by the same name; afterwards, and without
notice to defendant, the plaintifff, on his own motion, obtained an order from
the Court to amend the judgzxent by alte ' the name of George to Gordon.
Held, that this was error. Nelly v. Mott, Cal. 235.

4. Where a defendant is sued as James -—, service was returned upon
John —, and judgment was entered against J —: Held, to be error,
unless there was something in the record to show that the person served was
the person sued. Butter v. Coat, 6 Cal. 415.

«gm. Pleadinga, how construed.
In the construction of a pleading for the purpose of determining its effects, its allegations shall be liberally construed,

with a view to substantial justice between the parties.

N. Y. Code, 9 159.
1. Substantial justice spoken of in the statute is substantial legal justice, to
be ascertained and determined by med rules and positive statutes, and not

the abstract and notion of equity which may be entertained by each
individual. H  1 Cal. 98.

2. The rule requiring the pleading to be most strongly construed against
the pleader does not uire such a construction to be given (if it will reason321% 3ealr7aé different am as will make the pleading absurd. Marshall v. Sliafhy

3. In leading. doubtful lan e is construed most strongly against the
pleadeinp Moore v. Reese, 30 oaiiliio.

4. The common law rule, that_ a leadi must be taken strongly against
the plaider where the language a is am Eguous, has no application when
the pleader confesses that his  is biguous, and asks to amend it.
.Nevada0ountyandSaoramcnto ounty analcompanyv. Kidd, 28 Cal. 673.

§7l. No error or defect to be regarded, unless it alfects the
substantial rights.

The Court shall, in every stage of an action, disregard any
error or defect in the pleadings, or proceedings, which shall
not affect the substantial rights of the parties; and no judg-'
ment shall be reversed or affected by reason of such error
or defect.

N. Y. Code, § 176. _

1. The seventy-first section of the Practice Act,  the Courts to
disregard errors not aieoting substantial rights, applies to errors of descri
@211 5118168 pleading as well as to errors in other respects. Peters v. Foss,

2: Thus, where in an action on a verbal contract, the complaint alleged
several distiiliict ptliomisgalsuqn the of defendants which were denied by th:
answeran on etri e 'tiRintroducednoproo,exceptastooneo
the roinises: Held, that thile was not ground for nonsuit that the provision
of e Practice Act above referred to require a relaxation of the common
law rule  a variance, and that, it being apparent the defendanh
were not surpri’ or prejudiced by the failure of proof, the error in stating
the agreement should ave been  _ Id. _ q p

3.  yudgment will not be reversed on the ground of variance between the
pleadings and proof, when the variance does not mislead the appellant to his
przjug‘i'hce. Begangl:B0’Reilly, 3? Cal. 11.

. e seventy- t section 0 the Practice Act, uiring immaterial’ variances between the pleadings and proofs to be disregriiged, is a most benehcial
provision, and_ should be literally construed and carried out. Id.

5. In an action against a common camel‘ for not complying with a contract
to carry or deliver adraft, the complaint alleged that it was signed “John Q.
Jackson;" the proof showed that it was signed “John Q Jackson, t."
geéd, that the variance was immaterial. Zaigler v. Wells, Fargo it 6b., Cal.
. 6: Variance between pleading and proof. If the answer sets up as a
defense, in an action on a bill of exchange, a total failure of consideration,
and the proof shows a partial onl , the variance is not an available one under
our practice. Plate v. V 3l al. 383. ' _ _ _

7. If, in the rogress o a trial, evidence is odered by the plaintifff at variance with the egations of the complaint, and the counsel for the defense
does not object to it at the time, nor move to strike it out upon the ground of
variance, this errbr is waived, and the Court may instruct e jury in relation
to the whole field of inquiry covered by the evidence. Boyce v. California
Stage Co. 25 Cal. 471.

TITLE V.

01''‘ THE PROVISIONAL REMEDIES IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

CHAPTER I.—Arrest and Bail.

Sllcnoat 72. No person to be arrested except as prescribed by this Act.‘
Cases in whichdefendant may be arrested.

Order for arrest, by whom made.

Amdavit to obtain order, what to contain.

Security by plaintifff before order of arrest.

Order, when made, and its form.

Aiiidavit and order to be delivered to the sherin‘ and copy

to defendant.

Arrest, how made.

Defendant to be discharged on bail or deposit.

Bail, how given.

%3a.11Surrender of dgfendanté

' , how proceeds agains .
Bail, how exonerated. _
Delivery of undertaking to plaintiff, and its acceptance or
rejection by him.

Notice of justiiication. New undertaking, if other bail.
Qualification of bail.

J ustihcatidn of bail.

Allowance of bail. . ,

Deposit of money with sherik.

Pa ent of mone into Court by sheriff.

Sup 'tuting bail or deposit. , f

Mone d sited, how a lied, or disposed of.

Shm , w en liable as ' and his discharge from lia. .ty.
Proceedings on judgment against sherim
Motion to vacate order of arrest or reduce bail, affidavits

on motion.
When the order vacated or bail reduced.

A§ 72. No person to be arrested except as prescribed by this
ct.
N 0 person shall be arrested in a civil action, except as

prescribed by this Act.

§ 73. arses in which defendant may be arrested.
The defendant may be arrested as hereinafter prescribed,
in the following cases arising after the passage of this

Act: ‘

(1) 9!-'A!'U'!ll 0? 1800. 40"; W000’: Draur. 252,  1881: Hrrrxuxs Dress-r, Arr. 8038.
AsAdforaerdi9'ofpenom inprisonedou civilproeeu. PauedApn‘l22d, 1850.

1. Ive:-yperson connnedinjail on an enecutlonororderissuedonajndgmsntrenderbd
In setvn action. shall be discharged therefrom upon the conditions hereinafter spocmod.

laud: shal1causeanot1oeinwrlt‘l'n;5tobeg1ventotheplaint1a,hisI8entoe
&a-nay. staoertalntlmsandplsoeho applytotheludgooullsbutrlctcaurtot

53 3.8 8333333383 i8.3i$.‘r‘~‘3?-°§8sT3 9‘3.=13§»=§-‘.5’

 

1st. In an action for the recovery of money or damages
on a cause of action arising upon contract express or implied, when the defendant is about to depart from the
State, with intent to defraud his creditors, or where or when
the action is for willful injury to person, to character, or to
property, knowing the property to belong to another :

2d. In an action for a iine or penalty, or for money or
property embezzled, or fraudulently misapplied, or converted to his own use, by a public officer; or an officer of
a corporation, or an attorney, factor, broker, agent, or
clerk, in the course of his employment as such; or by any
other person in a iiduciary capacity, or for misconduct or
neglect in office, or in a professional employment; or for a.
willful violation of duty :

3d. In an action to recover the possession of personal
property, unjustly detained, when the property, or any part
thereof, has been concealed, removed, or disposed of, so that
it cannot be found, or taken by the sheriff.

4th. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in
contracting the debt, or incurring the obligation, for which
the action is brought; or in concealing, or disposing of the
property, for the taking, detention, or conversion of which
the action is brought:

5th. When the defendant has removed or disposed of his
property, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his
creditors.

N. Y. Code, § 179.

 

the county in which his person may be connned; or. in case of his absence or inability to

act. to the Judge of the County court of the county in which such person may be imprisoned, for the purpose of obtaining a discharge from his imprisonment. In the county of

3 £“.x-‘sac:-coo, the application may be made to the Judge of a Superior Court of the city 0!
nc sec.

8. Such notice shall be served upon the plaintiii. his agent or attorney, one day at least
before the hearing of the a plication, in cases where the plaintiii. his agent or attorney,
lives within twenty miles o the place of hearing; and one shall be added for every additional twenty miies that such person may reside from the p of hearing.

4. At the time and place specified in the notice. such person shall be taken before such
Judge. who shall examine him under oath concerning his estate. and pro , and elects.
and the disposal thereof. and his ability to pay the judgment for which e is committed.
and such Judge shall also hear any other legal and pertinent evidence that may be produced
'°’..*“.a.°°"::.:.°.=."*..‘: s°°“°=. p e t e action may. upon such examination, rcpose to the prisoner any
interroga rice rtinent to the inquiry; and they shall. if required by him. be proposed and
answered in wr tins: and the answer shall be signed and sworn to by the prisoner.

6. If, upon the examination. the J ndge shall be satisfied that the prisoner is entitled to his

such Judge shall administer to him the following oath, to wit: "I do solemnly
swear that I have not any estate. real or personal. to the amount of ility dollars. except
suchasisbylaw excmptedirombeingtaken in execution; and that I have notanyother

1. No person can be imprisoned for debt, under the Constitution, except in
cases of fraud. An assault and battery is not a case of fraud within the
meaning of the Constitution. Ear parts Prader, 6 Cal. 239.

2. To entitle a partly to the remedy of arrest, it is not necessary that he
should know positive y the commission of a fraud. It is sumcient, if the

circumstances detailed would induce a reasonable belief that a fraud was intended. Southworth v. Racing, 3 Cal. 378.

3. First subdivision,-—The seventy-third section of the Practice Act, which
provides that “the defendant may be arrested where the notice is for willful
?jury to person or character," is directly in conhict with the fifteenth section

article one of the Constitution. Id.

4. Second subdivision-Agent, when he can be arrested.——In a suit to
recover money received by a person as agent, he cannot be arrested without
showing some fraudulent conduct on his part, or a demand on him by the
principal, and a refusal by him to pay. An arrest without such showing is
prohibited by section fifteen, article one, of the Constitution. In the matter
of Holdforili, 1 Cal. 438.

5. A. being the owner of an invoice of goods in the city of New York, sold
one-half interest therein to B., with an arrangement that the latter should

to San Francisco and there dispose of the same on joint account.
aid, that this constituted a partnership between them, and that B. was not

suhjecttoarrestinanactionb A.torecoverapartofthe proceeds ofthe
sales. Soulev. Ha rd, 1C .345. .

6. Section seven -four (now 73) of the Practice Act, which provides for
the arrest of a debtor in certain cases, does not apply in the case of one partner suing to recover money received by another. I .

7. Fourth subdiviaion.—In order to sustain the allegations of fraud and
deceit in contracting a debt, it is necessary to prove that the representations
sllege8cl(t3a;lha8"v’e been fraudulent and deceitful were not true. Belden v. Henriqla, . .

8. A defendant cannot be arrested for fraudulent representations in obtaining money, when there presentations were made some time after the money
was obtained. Snow v. Halstead, 1 Cal. 361.

9. Complaint.—What should be alleged. See ante, note to sec. 39; title,
"Arrest" and “Fraud."

10. Judgment.—To authorize an arrest of the defendant upon execution

 

eststenoweonveyrdorooncealed. orinanywaydiwof, withdesigntoseourethesams
toIsynse.ortodefraudmycreditors;sohe me "

i.siteradministeringtheoath,theJu lissueanorderthattheprisonerbedisthrssdfrom custody, if hebe imprison for no other cause; and the officer. upon the
mac! such order, shall discharge the prisoner forthwith, if he be imprisoned for no

cause.

tlfsuchlndgeshouldnotdisc thepi-isoner.hema s Torhisdischargeatthe
lldof every succeeding ten days, in e same manner as abczvepxxigcyavided. and the same proeledingsshallthereupon behad.

9. Theprison , aiterbeingsodischargedshail heforever exempted from arrest or imprisoam at for the same cause of action, unless he shall be convicted of having willfully
Ivan falsely upon his examination before the Judge, or in takingthe oath before preio. Thejudgment against prisoner, who is discharged as aforesaid mall remain in cm
H00 any estate whiggnay then or at any time afterwards belong to him, and the
DUI! may take out a new execution against the goods and estate of the prisoner, in like
manner as it he had never been committed.

ii. Thspisintia in the action mayatanytime ordertheprisonertobe discharged. andhe
tail notthereafter be liable to imprisonment for the same cause of action.

1!. Whenever a person is committed «o tail on an execution o orde issued on ajudgment
laeoverediu a civil action, the creditor his agent or attorney, shall advance to the ailor,
Within twenty-‘our hours after such commitment. sumcient money to pay for the support of
"dP'tso:.er during the time tor which he may be imprisoned ; and in case th * money
Ihouklaot be so advanced. or if, during the time the prisoner may be in confinement. the
Ilcney should be expended in the sup o' such prisoner. and the creditor should neglect,
llninnty-tour hours,to advance suc further sum as might bene esearyfor his support.
5'JIil0tshaiiforthwithdischarge such prisoner from custody; and such dischars‘ ‘Mn

sameellsctasadischargebyorderof the creditor.

issued upon a judgment recovered in an action upon contract, the fraud for

which the arrest is sought must be alleged in the complaint. and be fanned
upon by the jury, and be stated in the Judgment. Davis v. Robinson, 0 Cal.
4 w

V 11. _
11. In cases of band, it appears that there can be but two Judgments—one

against the person and the other against the property ' in the former of which
the execution issues directing the officers to arrest and connne the party nntl

the debt is paid. Matoon v. Eder, 6 Cal. 60.
12. Bxeout:lon.—8ee sub. 3, § 210.

§ 74. Order for arrest, by whom made.
‘An order for the arrest of the defendant shall be obtained

from a Judge of the Court in which the action is brought, or

from a County Judge.
N. Y. Code, § 180.

§ 75. Ajidavit to obtain order, what to contain.

The order may be made whenever it shall appear to the
Judge by the aiiidavit of the plaintifff, or some other person,
that .a sudicient cause of action exists; and that the case is
one of those mentioned in section seventy-three. The affidavit shall be either positive, or upon information and belief ;
and when upon information and belief, it shall state the facts
upon which the information and belief are founded. If an
order of arrest be made, the aiiidavit shall be filed with the

clerk of the county.

N. Y. Code, § 181; B.ancroit’s Forms, 448, 490; Ahh. Forms, 1213, 1305.

l. Amdavit.—'l‘he affidavit to sustain an arrest must show the facts relied
,npon by positive averment; and it is not sufficient to refer to the complaint, or
to any ct er paper, to show what the affidavit ought itself to disclose. MoGilvery v. Hoorhead. 2 Cal. 607. When a pa is arrested and discharged he cannot be arrested again in the same action. «I.

2. To entitle a party to the remedy of arrest, it is not necessary that he should
show positive] the commisson of a fraud. It is sumcient if the circumstances
detailed woul induce a reasonable belief that a fraud was intended. Southgoorth v. Rating, 3 Cal. 377.

3. An aliidavit for arrest, which avers on information and belief that the defendant has been guilty of fraud in contracting the debt, or in endeavoring to
prevent in collection, in the terms required by statute, and followed by an
averment of the facts on which the belief is founded. also stated on informtion and belief, is sumcient. Matoon v. Eder, 6 Cal. 57.

4». Insumcieney of the affidavit on which the writ of arrest issues cannot be
set utp igddefense by third parties, nor even by the defendant himself after judgmen . ‘

5. Order of arrest.—Thewritof an-sstisonlyan intermediaterem or

process to secure the presence of theparty until nnal judgment, and the

on which it is based must be amrmatively found, and the fraud stated in the
dgment, morderto authorize an arrest oniinalproceas. Jllatoonv. Ma,

‘ Cal. 57.

6.Asamatterof ractice itis safesttoawardanarrestevenincasesof
doubt, for the defe t is tected by his bond fromiabnse by the process,
;rig:lou§7v';hiohprocessthe Wzifmayberemedilesa. 8outhwor¢hv.Besing,

7. The arrest upon aiiidavit is not intended to secure the cc of the
defendant until final judgment. Davis 1'. Robinson, 10 Cal. 1. '

§ 76- »$'ecw'it3/ to Plainhf before order of arrest (a) (b)

Before making the order, the Judge shall requires. written
undertaking on the part of the plaintifff, with sureties, to the
edect that if the defendant recover judgment, the plaintifff
will pay all costs and charges that may be awarded to the
defendant, and all damages which he may sustain by reason
of the arrest, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which shall be at least five hundred dollars. Each
of the sureties shall annex to the undertaking an aiiidavit
that he is a resident and householder, or freeholder, within
the State, and worth double the sum specified in the undertaking, over and above all his debts and liabilities, exclusive

of property exempt from execution. The undertaking shall
be filed .with the Clerk of the Court.

see past, § 650; N. Y. Code, § 182; Bancroft’e Forms, 491; Abb. Forms,
1306-1311.

1. The obligations of bail are assumed with reference to the law, which
becomes a part of their contract, and the whole statute must be examined to
determine their  Matoon v. Eder, 6 Cal. 57. '

§77. Order, when made, and its form.

The order may be made to accompany the summons, or any
time afterwards before judgment. It shall require the
aherif of the county where the defendant may be found

 

l')0H_AP'1'lB O0CXI.IV.—Act to exempt the city and county of Ben Francisco tron:
ilingunderttngeincerteinceeee. 8tet.1n61.page860. ' - ‘ ”

sumo: 1. In any suit at law, or in uity. wherein Iho city end county of an Francisco
3 I party pletmif or defendant, no hon written undertaking. or security ehell be {aimed
at said city end county, under the provision: at sections seventy-six, one hundred t
one hundred and nfteen, end one hundred and twenty-two, of the Act entitled an Ac
mine rinoivilceeeeinthecourteo!Juetioeinthie8tete,peeeedApril‘

- commonly the "Civil Practice Act ;” and ot the Acts emendetoq thereof and
Fllpplenentery thereto, requiring or pieintine eecnrity in cases of arrest, rep] injunction
Iedetteehmente ; but oncomplyinglwith the other provision: required low, eeid city
Plldcountyot Benn-ancieoo shell are the same rights, remedies and nedte, ee if the
udu-taking, bond or securities were given end approved, an reqairedbylew hi ouch ceeee.

'(b)Aqn:~oveditezch2s. is“, mad. 201.

he Stet L  in’ 'i'§‘oitci"s°§zi"1:‘i"lp?£z§"  “Wu P state «Yer i hie‘ metal
e or e poop e c e p . or any , n o
£101-on behelio! theistete, in APIIQ meintii! or defendant. no bond,_writteu under
or eeenrityehellberequiredoi theszetécrthe peapletheneof. or enyofficerectinc
Iloreseid. under the provision: at eectionn seventy-eix. one hundred and two, one hun-'='»'i‘le‘«"‘i‘.“’.....i...‘°°“”‘°“Em...::...;.°“° "“”"‘°"a..“é'ii’-a"°" "i“'£':'..°’o‘1‘.'.’1§"‘}°§ '°°u”°”:.°:'x..‘.’.‘”s.‘i‘J.°§.’l‘.‘12af'
leases in e o co
‘M1 361:. A. 0: teen hundrbd end mtv-one. or of the Acts errendetory thereof and sup’u'7«'E?i‘.i'I.:"'“"“..n....Z°;‘.1‘é’l.?‘..‘i£.f£'“'.....‘° $33. '2.°.f“.'.‘§.i;§“ °"°' 3.‘ u.‘Z'°!€i§.°"?.¥&"uo§‘F“=$
}‘.l1Nlby!ev,theBtate.orthe lethereof,orenyBlgilt‘eg chrectingee orenid.ehell
."°!hIIguneri¢hte, remedieeand nenteee it the bond. under-tekin¢,cr eecuritywene
lvundegpeovedee required by law. ' ' '

forthwith to arrest him and hold him to bail in a specified

.sum, and to return the order at a time therein mentioned to

the Clerk of ,the Court in which the action is pending.
N. Y. Code, § 183; Banc:roft's Forms, No. 442; Abb. Forms, 1312.

§ 78. Ajidavit and order to be delivered to the sherif and copy

 to defendant.

The order of arrest, with a copy of the aiiidavit upon

“which it is made, shall be delivered to the sheriff, who, upon

arresting the defendant, shall deliver to him the copy of A the
aiiidavit; and also, if desired, a copy of the order of arrest.

N. Y. Code, § 184. The sherin‘ must file them within ten days; Bale
HXIX. San Francisco.

§ 79. Arrest, how made.
The sheriff shall execute the order by arresting the defendant and keeping him in custody until discharged by law.
. N. Y. Code, §185.

§ 80. Defendant to be discharged on bail or deposit.

The defendant, at any time before execution, shall be discharged from the arrest either upon giving bail, or upon
depositing the amount mentioned in the order of arrest, as

‘provided in this chapter.

N. Y. Code, § 186.

§ 81. Bail, how given.

The defendant may give bail by causing a written undertaking to be executed by two or more suilicient sureties,
stating their places of residence and occupations, to the effect
that they are bound in the amount mentioned in the order of
arrest; that the defendant shall at all times render himself
amenable to the process of the Court, during the pendency
‘of the action, and to such as may be issued to enforce the
judgment therein; or that they will pay to the plaintifff the
amount of any judgment which may be recovered in the
action. . ' . .

N. Y. Code§ 187; Bancroft’: Forms, 493; Abb. F. 1338-1340.

\ § 82. Surrender of defendant. ,
,, At any time before judgment, or within ten days there‘alter, the bail may surrender the defendant in their ei:oneration: or he may surrender himself to the sherid of the
county where he was arrested.

N.Y.Code§188.

1. The suretles on the bail bond of a defendant, arrested in a civil action, are
not bound to surrender the defendant within ten days after judgment against
him, unless the plaintiff takes such measures as would authorize the oilicer to
hold defendant in custody. Allen 1'. Bmlauer. 8 Cal. 552.

2. A surrender, within ten days after execution, is a sumcient compliance
Iiill the statute. Id.

3. Where a party olered to surrender himself in discharge of his sureties:
Hold, to be a good surrender, and a discharge of the sureties from all liability.
Babb V. , 5 Cal. 93.

4. Where e judgmentisnotsuchaswillwsrrant a writofoa.ea.tohe isned under it, the bail will not be charged for lecting to surrender the ‘u nentdebtor. Iatoouv.3dar,6Cal.5 . mg . 1 dz

§ 83. Surrender of defendant.

A For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the bail
at any time or place before they are finally charged, may
themselves arrest him; or by a written authority, endorsed
on a certified copy of the undertaking, may empower the
sherid to do so. Upon the arrest of the defendant by the
sheriff, or upon his delivery to the sheriff by the bail, or
upon his own surrender, the bail shall be exonerated: provided, such arrest, delivery, or surrender, take place before
the expiration of ten days after judgment; but if such arrest,
delivery, or surrender, be not made within ten days after
judgment, the bail shall be finally charged on their undertaking, and be bound to pay the amount of the judgment, within
ten days thereafter. .

N.Y.Code§189; §83snd84discussed.

5 84. ‘Bail, how proceeded against.

If the bail neglect or refuse to pay the judgment within
ten days after they are finally charged, an‘ actjon may be
commenced against such bail for the amount of suchaoriginsl

judgment.

‘Amended 1854, 86.
N. Y.Gcde, § 190; 99 83nd Sidlscussed; Woody. Diet. .5011.‘ 67.3,
85. Bail, how exonerated.’

The bill mil also he exonerated ,1»); the death ofhe do;
fendant of his imprisonm_ent_ in, a State prison; or hy his

in

I

Q

in

I‘

-l

‘ orrejection by him.

legal discharge from the obligation to render ~hii'nseLf amen'al')le to the process. l L '
N. Y. Code, § 191.

§ 86. Delivery of undertaking to plaintzfl, and its acceptance

Within the time limited for that purpose, the sheriff shall
file the order ‘of arrest in the ofnce of - the clerk of the Court
in which the action is pending, with his return endorsed
thereon, together with a copy of the undertaking of the bail.
The. original undertaking he shall retain in his possession
until filed,as herein provided. The plaintifff, within ten days
thereafter, may serve upon‘ the sheriff a noticethat he does
not accept the bail, or he shall be deemed to havevaccepted
'them,,and' the sheriff shall be exonerated from liability. If

no notice be served within ten days, the original undertaking

shall be filed with the clerk of the Court. ‘
N. Y. Code, g 192.

§ 87. Notice ofjustg')‘ication.i New undertakin_q,.z_°f -other bail.
- Within dve days after the receipt of notice,.the sheriff or

' ‘defendant may give to the plaintifff, or his attorney, notice of

the justification of the same, or other bail, (specifying the

. e places of residence and‘ occupations of the latter,) before a

Judge of the Court, or. County Judge, or.County Clerk, at a

‘specified time and place; the timertobe not less than live,
‘nor more than ten days thereafter, except by consent of parties. In case other bail be given, there shall be a new

undertaking.
N. Y. Code, § 193.

§88.  of bail.
The qualifications ‘of bail shall be as follows:

1st. Each of them shall be a resident and ‘householder, or
freeholder, within the county ;

2d. Each shall be worth the amount specified in the order
of‘ arrest, or the amount to which '- the order is reduced, as
provided in this chapter, over and above all his debts and

‘liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution; but
the Judge, or County Clerk, on‘ justification, may allow more

than‘ two sureties to ‘ justify severally; in amounts less than

‘ 

i ‘that expressed in ‘the "order, ' if the whole justincation be
equivalent to that of two sudicient 
N.Y.Code§194., Seepos¢§650.

5 89. Jushjicaaon and allowance of bail.

For the purpose of . justincation, each of the bail shall attend before the Judge, or County Clerk, at the time and place
mentioned in the. notice, and may be examined on oath, on
the part of the plaintifff, touching his snfliciency,_ in ‘such
manner as the Judge, or County Clerk, in his discretion, may
think proper. The examination shall be reduced to ifvriting,
and subscribed by the bail, if required bythe plaintifff.’ _

N.Y.C-ode§l95. ' " - ' t — ’ a § 90.. Justification and allowance of bail.

If the Judge, or Clerk, find the .bail sudicient, he shall
annex the examination to the undertaking, indorse his allowance thereon, and cause them to be ‘{i1ed,"and the‘ sheriff shall

thereupon be exonerated from liability
N. Y. Code, § 196.

§'9l. Deposit qf money with shergf.

The defendant may, at the time of his arrest, instead of
giving bail, deposit with the sheriff the amount mentioned in
the.order. In case the amount of the bail be reduced, as
provided in, this chapter, the defendant may deposit such
amount instead of giving bail. ,In either case, the sheriff
shall give the defendant a certificate of the deposit made, and
the defendant shall be discharged, out of custody. ' 

N.Y.Code§l97'." ~ ‘ ‘ W . .2 t. 

§ 92. -Payment of into ‘cm:  sherifg , _
_ The sheriff shall immediately after the deposit pay the same

': r
0-\ ’

.. F‘

_ into{Court,_and[take from the clerk‘ receiving the same, two.
certincates of such’ payment '- ‘the '_one of which he shall de~.

liver or transmit to the p1aintiii','o1"' his attorney, and the other

to the defendant. For any default in making such"payment,
. - the‘ same proceedings maybe had"on ~the-otlicial b6nd"of the

she:-id‘, to collect the sum deposited, as in other-‘cases'cf derlhnluen-°y* ‘ ' -9 v_ A ‘ ' ' w ... ' I’.

5 93. Substituting bail for deposit.

If money be deposited, as provided in the last two sections,
bail may be given, and may justify upon notice, at any time
before judgment; and on the filing of the undertaking and
justification with the Clerk, the money deposited shall be
refunded by such Clerk to the defendant.

N. Y. Code, § 199.

§ 94. Money deposited, how applied or disposed of.
Where money shall have been deposited, if it remain on
deposit at the time of the recovery of a judgment in favor

of the plaintifff, the Clerk shall, under the direction of the
Court, apply the same in satisfaction thereof; and alter satisfying the judgment, shall refund the surplus, if any, to the
defendant. If the judgment be in favor of the defendant,
the ‘Clerk shall, under like direction of the Court, refund to

him the whole sum deposited and remaining unapplied.
N. Y. Code, Q 900.

§95. Sherf,when ‘liable as bail,andlu'sd2kchargefrom liaIf, after being arrested, the defendant escape or be rescued,
the sherii shall himself be liable as bail; but he may discharge himself from such liability, by the giving and justi£cation of bail, at any time before judgment.

N. Y. Code, § 201.

596. Proceedings on judgment against shenfl

If a judgment be recovered against the Sherif, upon his
liability as bail, and an execution thereon be returned unsat.
isfied in whole or in part, the same proceedings may be had
on his oliicial bond, for the recovery of the whole or any

deficiency, as in other cases of delinquency.
N. Y. Code, 9 202.

5 97. Motioatovaoate ordcrof arrest, or reduce baaandapz.
davits on motion.

A defendant arrested may at any time before the justification of bail apply to the Judge who made the order, or the

Court in which the action is pending, upon reasonable notice

to the plaintiff to vacate the order of arrest, or to reduce the
amount of bail. If the application be made upon affidavits
on the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff
may oppose the same by affidavits or other proofs, in addition to those on which the order of arrest was made.

N. Y. Code, M 201, 205; Abb. Forms, 1322, 1327.

1. Whereaparty is oncesrrestedand discharged, he cannot be 

spin in the same action. l{c0ilvery v. Moorhead, 2 Cal. 607.

2.Apertywillbed1scherged' fromarrestwh the rocess,though
inforrmhasbeenissuedinanimpropercase.  105.345.

3. Onaruleto show cause why the mat , or bythe Court
on an allegation of fraud, should not be v the question of fact involved in it must be decided like any other (set, by the weight of evidence.
Bouthoorth v. Bering, 3 Cal. 378.

_4. The defendant on arrest, by putting in bail and neglecting to move to be

tsto d ' all ' ‘ti .Matoon
 processan waives previouszrregulsnes

§ 98. Wherrthe order vacated or bail reduced.

If upon such application it shall satisfactorily appear that
there was not sufficient cause for the arrest, the order shall

be vacated; or if it satisfactorily appear that the bail was
fixed too high, the amount shall be reduced.

[No decision in relation to “ arrests " has been rendered by the Supreme
Gourtlaterthenthstot Deviev. Bobiaeon,in100aL411.]
Abb. Forms, 1,327.

TITLE VI.
Cnsrrna 1I.—Claim and delivery of personal property.

Blane): 99. Delivery of rsonal property, when it may be claimed.

100. Amdavit its requisites.

101. Requisition to shenf to take and deliver the roperty.

102. Security on the part of the laintil and ju cation.

103. Exce tion to sureties proceedings thereon, or on

ure to except.

104. Defendant, when entitled to redslivery.

105. J ustincation of defendant's snreties.

106. Qualification and&ustiflcation of eureties. ‘
107. Przperty, how en, when concealed. in building or inosure

ms. '11 kept. . .
109. Claim 0 raw rty by third person.
110. Notice davit, when and where to boiled.

- S 99. Delivery of personal property, when it may be claimed.
The plaintiff, in an action to recover the possession of

personal property, may, at the time of issuing the summons, '
or at any time before answer, claim thedelivery of such
property to him, as.prov'ided_i.n‘ this chapter.

N. Y. Code, § 206; Bancrofc's Forms, 528; A.bb.Forms, 6134519.
1. Compla1nt.—See ante, Q 39, No. 288-290. ‘

mg. 36L;1swer.——See ante, t 46,‘ Nos. 45, 46, 54, 55, so, 61, 68,85, 101,124,
1 - '

3. Action for claim and delivery of personal property.--The action for
the “ claim and delivery of personal property,” under our practice, is at least
commensurate with the action of detinue at common law. . McLaughlin v.
.Platti.27-Gal-.464. ~ '  . . . »

4. Inducement, what 1s.—In the action of detinue, the manner of la g
the possession of the property has always been held to be inducement. t is ..
usual to aver a bailment or finding. Ottero v. Ballard, 30:11. 188.

6. Fixtures. when personal property.—By the wrongful severance from i
the premises, the fixtures become personal rope .for the recovery of which
anaction of rep1l):.-"_vi.1t;_  lgaalby 25tl81e pmcgaser ter he obtains the sheriffs
deed. Sands v. ei er, 0 . . ‘

62 Billtinthequity will “tie   p1:'op.<‘9ntrty.—-‘_Vfhere the ‘ma. .
coreryo.e.pm_1s epnma o ope Jasinsomecases
where damages wfileigt compensate gaintiil‘, he should frame his bill in

equity, 'ng the reasons therefore, and thena decree can be made to com- _
pel delive :. N icloerson v. Oltattcrton, 7 Cal. 570. .

 Object of suit in replevin.——The object of the replevin suit 
the recovery of the thing itself. The v us is received only, in the alternative
that the property is not returned. Hunt v. Robinson, 11 Cal. 277.

8. Jury. waived when.—The failure of the defendant to appear on the
trial of an action of replevin, when the cause is called, is a waiver of a jury
under the one hundred and seventy-ninth section of the Code. Waltham v.
Garcon, 10 Cal. 180.

9. Action, when can be ma,1ntsined.—'In ta-ofoer, the plaintifff must either
have the ssion or the immediate right to the possession of the property,
to entitle 'm to recover. Middlesworth v. Sedgwio . 10 Cal. 392.

10. A safein thgpossession of M00. belo to W-., F. & Co., for whom,
as also for plain ' , he was agent, contain $6,000 in coin. Of this sum
four hundred dollars belonged to W., F. & Co., the balance to  Defendant, as sheriff, under a writ against McC., seized $1,800 0 the money in
the safe as his ro erty, and put it in a bag. Plaintiff then claimed the
money as his, MgC.%eing present and not objecting. Held, that this amounted
to, esegregation of the $1,800 from the mass of coin in the safe, so as to suetain re levin by plaintifff. Griyith v. Bogardus, 14 Cal. 410. ' ’ '

11. o render the defendant liable to the action, he must have converted
the property to his own use; and if not, then any other act, to amount to I
conversion, must be done with a wrongful intent, either express or implied.
Rogmpv. Huie, 2‘Cal.'57l. _

12. Replevin hes for all goods and chattels unlawfully taken or detained.
and may be brought whenever one rson claims personal progerty in the
possession of another, and this who er the claimant has ever ha ssession
or not, and whether his property in the goods be absolute or qua 'fied, provided he has the right to the possession. Lazard v. ‘Wheeler, 22 Cal. 139.

13. Where the defendant is in the adverse ossession of land as a tres _ ,
without color of title, he is not in the posi on before the Statute of totions has run to contest the title of the true owner in such a sense as to defeat
a personal action brought by the true owner to recover wood cut b him on
the land. Kimball v. Lohmas, 31 Cal. 156; Halleclc v. M iaaer, 16 al. 579;

Page v. Fowler, Oct. T. 1867.

‘f

14. The true owns at  may maintain _replevin to recgvervzood cut on
the land by one in possession of the same _without color of title. _Id.

15. Query: Is not the owner of land entitled to recover possession of wood ‘
cut an the same by one in possession thereof in good faith under color of
titl . Id.

106. The common law rule in relation to the right of the owner of land to .
recover possession of cord cut wood on the land by one in possession, without ‘.4’
color of title, commented on. Id.

17. A mere ment between two or more persons to convert the property ~ .
of another, wit out an actual intermeddli with it, does not give the owner 3.
a eause25oéa1acg>9n against the parties to e agreement. Hen-on v. Hughes
et ala, . .

18. A bill of sale of a given number of catt1e—-part of a herd running on the
seller's ranch—giving_the purchaser the right to select the number sold, and .
take the same immediately, gives to the purchaser the right,_ after demand :
and refusal, to recover possession of the entire herd in an action at law, and .
then select the number onpurchased, and return the residue to the seller.

Ilulaughlin v. Piatti, 27 . 464.

19. Action when ithloannot be nifalntt:1al1n:d.h—One partnerncsnnot sus- ,
him an action against’ 's copartn_ er or e e ‘very o , property P

' to the  Buckley v. _C'arh'sle, 2 Cal. 428. I '

90. an officer, by his misconduct, induces a sale of property for less
than it would otherwise have brought, the remedy must be an action for 
ages resulting from his acts, and not an action to recover the property or its .
vahie. Foster v. Coronal, Oct. '1‘. l£l67. _ _ _

21. Beplevin for hay cut on public lands cannot be maintained by a prior
possessor against one who was in adverse possession, claiming a preemption .
right entered when he cut the hay. Page v. Fowler, 28 Cal. 605; anlrmed in i
Page v. Fowler, Oct. T. 1867. e

22. When demand is, or not. necesaary.—It is a general rule that, when
the possession of property is originally acquired by a tort, no demand prev=i- ‘
one to the institution of suit for its recovery is necessary, It is only when U
the original possession is lawful, and the action relies upon the unlawful ,
detendon, that a demand is required. Paige v. 0’Neal, 12 cal. 483. '

23. Where the original  of personal property is tortious,‘no demand .
isneeeesary. Lodley v. Hays, Cal. 160.

24. Where the taking is by an odicer u n proper legal authority, a demand
is necessary in order to make him liab e in damages. Doumie v. Gorham, 6 _
Cal. 43; Taylor v..iS'eymour, Id. 512; Killey v. Scannell, 12 Id. 73. '

25. Certain personal pro owned by plaintiff, but which had been used ,
by A. J: G., under a contract 0 hire, was seized by the sberid‘ from the pos- ,
session of the plaintid, by virtue of an attachment against G., subsequent to ,_
which plaintiff, having made a demand for the prop upon the sheriff', but i
not upon A. J: G., commenced this action against t e former for its recovery:
Held, that the. demand, if necessary at all, was properly made u n the defendant in whose possession the property was at the time. oodworlh v.
Ktiaielton, 22 Cal. 64..

26. If the original possession of property is acquired, by a tort, no demand .,
ggviaus to the institution of a suit is necessary. Sargent v. Sturm, 23 Cal.

27. Ifthetortfeasorhaspsrtedwith the possession of the dstortio i
obtained, in payment of a re-existing debt, or if they have l?e‘ii sold 0:2‘: _
execution against him, an bid in by a creditor, no demand of the purchaser
is necessary before the institution of a suit, nor can the purchaser, who has:
obtained them in such manner, hold them against the original vendor. Id.

28. If a sherid seize: the property of A., then in A.’s possession, as the property of B., under an execution against the property of B.. a demand of the return _

of the property by A. is not necessary before bringing suit for damages. Moore v. Hui-dock, 26, 524. ‘=

29. If a sheriff, by virtue of an execution, seizes tlieproperty of a person
other than the Judgment debtor, whether by mistake or design, it is not gneces-J

"1

saryfortheowner of the property thus seized to msheadeiasndon theshsril
be ore commencing suit. Bouhnare v. Oreddoclc, 30 Cal. 190.

30. Evidenoe.—-Where the vendee replevied the goods from the attaehinig
creditor, and only established title by proving a possession of several months, t
was competent for the defendant in replevin, on cross-examination of laintiE’a
witness, to ask in whose possession the chattels were at a certain perio anterior
to the possession ,proved by plaintin’, in order to draw from him, if possible, the
fact that Blaintin‘ s occasion was a fraud to hide the debtor’s property. Thomlsrgh v. ‘ and, 7 Ca . 554. _

31. The declarations of a vendor of personal roperty, after the sale, not good
to impeach the title of the vende. Valuer v. ebster, 8 Cal. 109.

32. Where, in an action to recover specidc personal property, plaintii!’ relied
exclusively upon his possession at the time of the taking by de endant ; and defendant having nrst established a prima facie title snillcient to destroy the presumption of title in plaintifff arising from his possession, then went further, and
showed—plaintid’ excepting—that plaintiff obtained the roperty by proceedings uuder a void judgment : Held, that the introduction 0 this further evidence
b defendant, showing the invalidity of the judgment, was of no advantage to

m—ss he had already rebutted plaintiil"s case based solely on possessien——
and hence that it did not prejudice plaintifff, and is no ground of error. Lajosiaine v. Greene, 17 Cal. 294.

33. Damages.-—In actions for taking and detaining personal property, no
circumstances of aggravation being shown, the measure of damage is the value
of the roperty. with interest. Dorsey v. Manlove, 14 Cal. 553.

34. an action against a sherin for wrongfully seizing and selling property,
under an execution, and where there was no wantonness or oppression on the
part of such officer in the seizure, the measure of damages is the value of the
property at the time it was seized, and legal interest on such amount from the
time of seizure up to the time of the rendition of the verdict. Phelps v. Owens,

11 Cal. 22.
35. The rule is, that when prope converted has a tlxed value, the measure

of damages is that value, with legs interest from the time of its conversion;
when the value is fluctuating, the plaintifff may recover the highest value at he
time of its conversion, or at any time afterwards. Douglass v. Krapt, 9 Cal.
563; Dorsey v. lllanlove, 14 Cal. 555.

86. In an action for the unlawful taking and conversion of a lot of hay: Held,
that when the roperty converted has a tlxed value, the measure of damages is
that value, wi legal interest from the time of the conversion; when the value
h fluctuating, the plaintifff may recover the hi heat market value at the time of
the convers on. or at any time aderwards. he market value is to be ascertained at the place of the conversion. Interest is to be allowed, as a matter of
‘lfglal Trigll;t6,6from the time when the value is estimated. Earner v. Hathaway.

1: . .

3 . In an action against a sheril for dam for the unlawful seizure of goods,
the true measure of dam es is, the value 0 the goods at the time of the taking.
Pelberg v. Gorham, 23 Ca . 349.

See further, sec. 200, post, damages; also, § 39, No. 138. [May recover the
value in Legal Tender notes.)

'38. Verdict, form o£—See 5 177, post.

39. J’udginent.——In an action to recover the possession of personal
arty, with damages for its detention. the judgment may be for more thaiiintfe
value as alleged in the complaint, if it be within the ad damnum of the writ.
'.l‘he value of the groperty is only one predicate of the recovery. Oogltill v.

Boring, 15 Cal. 21

$43; In an action oil’ replevin, wlliere the diefendailixt has required the retiirn
e roperty, an givenanun e or snc ui-pose, a ' out or

glalistig, in order to hold the sureties on t e undertaging, must igdgnthe altive, as required b sections ‘one hundred and four, one hundred and

seventy-seven, and two undred and ten of the Practice Act. N iclcsrsoa v.

Chatter-ton,7Cal.568; Dorssymlfanlove, l4Cal. 555.

41. A defendant-in replevin who recovers ju ent, the jury failing to dnd
the value of the rty to exceed two h ed dollars, is, nevertheless,
entided to his  m the plaintifffs com laint states its value at a sum
exceeding that amount. Edgar v. Gmy, 5 C . 267.

. 42. If an action of replevin be improperly commenced, the party bringing It, havi.n%:sbtained the benefit, cannot avoid the undertaking he has given by
pleading ' own misfeasance.  v. Billagram. 2 Cal. 22._ ._
43. In an action to recover possession of personal property, if the plaintiff
takes the property at the commencement of the action, and the defendant
prays a return of it, and the defendant was entitled to the fropert at the
commencement of the action, but his ' ht has ceased an v in the

e
plaintiff before trial, the judgment sho d leave the to y in laintifa
possession, but award costs to defendant. O'Connor v. , 29 C . 312.

44. In an action by the pledgee against a stra r for the conversion of
the laintid‘ is entitled to recover the full v use!‘ the goods; but if

converted by the owner. or by any one actin in privity with

goods
him, the pledges can recover onl the value -of his spacing interest in the
pledge. readwdl v. Davis, April . 1868. .

-45. Judgmantphow entered.-—8ee§200,post.

§ 100. Ajidavit and its requisites. .

Where a delivery is claimed, an aiiidavit shall be made by
the plaintifff, or by some one in his behalf, showing :

lst. That the plaintifff is the owner of the property claimed,
(particularly describing it,) or is lawfully entitled to the possession thereof :

21. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant :_ '

8d. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, according
to his best knowledge, information, and belief:

4th. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to a statute; or seized under an execution, or an attachment against the property of the plaintifff ;

or if so seized, that it is by statute exempt from such seizure; and,
5th. The actual value of the property.

-N. Y. Code, § 207 ; Bancroft’s Forms, 600; Abb. Forms, 1462-1469.

§ 101. 'Requisitz'on to sherzf to take and deliver the property.
' The plaintifff or his attorney may, thereupon, by an indorsement in writing upon the affidavit, req.uire the sheriff of
the county where the property claimed may be, to take the

-same from the defendant. ‘

‘Amended 1854, 86. N. Y. Code, 9 208. Abb. Forms, 1470-1471.
del. The sherii will,fhowt¢la1ver, be liablllcilto the avng, who  remyagainstan one or etalnn' , essit virtueo process
 Elwdesv. Patterson, gCal. 469. ‘ § 102. ‘Security on the part of the plaintzf and justification.
Upon a receipt of the aiiidavit, and notice with a written

undertaking, executed by two or more suiiicient sureties,
approved by the sheriff to the effect that they are bound to
the defendant in double the value of the property as stated
in the affidavit for the prosecution of the action, for the
return of the property to the defendants, if return thereof '
be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as may
from any cause be recovered against the plaintifff, the sheriff
shall forthwith take the property, described in the affidavit,
if it be in possession of the defendant or his agent, and retain
it in his custody. He shall also without delay serve on the
defendant 9. copy of the aiiidavit, notice and undertaking, by .
delivering the same to him personally if he can be found, or
to his agent, from whose possession the property is taken, or
if__neither ean be found by leaving them at the usual place

of abode of either, with some person of suitable "age and discretion, or if neither have any known place of abode, by '

putting them in the nearest postoiiice, directed to the defendant.

8i1A11l1;n<‘ii:d 1854, 86. N. Y. Code, § 209. State, cities, etc., not required to
ve n . .
1. In an action on the bond, the fact that defendant brou ht his action
before an incompetent tribunal is no defense, and the lea t the title of '
props:-;.z so replevied is in him, is bad. .lIcDermott v. (I, 4 Cal. 113.
2. ere the defendant, in a re levin suit, failed to claim the return of the
ptogrty in his answer, and on t e trial the jury found a verdict for the deen nt, on which the Court rendered judgment against plaintifffs for costs,
which was paid: Held, that the payment of the jud ent, as taken, was a  t%  e of plaintids’ sureties on the un ertaking. Chambers v.
s, . ;
3. Where a replevin bond substantial] conforms to the act, and no variation
is ointed out, the assignee of the defen ts can maintain an action upon it.
mgate v. Brooks. 3 Cal. 112.
4. No recovery can be had on a bond purporting to be a joint bond of the
principallainéi tlaureties, but signed by the latter only. City of Sacramento v.
, a . 421.

'5. gtherwise. as to undertakings under our system. They are original and
indeptincitpnt opntraclts opdthe part of the sureties, and do not require the signature o t e pr ncipa . .

,6. Where the plaintin’, in replevin, gives the statutory undertaking, and takes
possession of the property in suit, and is afterwards nonsuited, and judgment
entered against him for the return of the property and for costs: Held, that his
sureties are liable for damages sustained by defendant by reason of a failure to
return the goods ; but not for damages for the original taking and detentiontshg vlalpfeof the goods not having been found by the jury. Gtnaea v. Atwood,

a . .

. 7. T. commenced suit against J. by attachment; the writ was levied upon
certain personal propert by the plaintifff, H., as sheriff. M. J ., wife of J ., claimed
the property as sole er, and brought her action of replevin for the property and obtained pouuion of the same by the delivery of an undertaking, as, required by section one hundred and_two of the Code; The’ undertaking was
executed by defendants R. and S. The replevin suit‘ was decided Februa

5th, 1855, in favor of H.  obtained jud t inathe attachment suit against .
November 30th,,1854. On the 18th of
other creditors of J‘. coming into the hands of H.,»as‘ sherin’, he levied them on
the same progerty, and sub uen sold the propert and aid the roceeds
into Court. . t en brought is su tagainst the sure es in e replev n bond.
Held, that the lieu of T.’.s attachment continued after the _1_-eplevy of the goods
byll. J. .Huut v. Robinson, 11 Cal. 262. , . . ‘ ‘

8. The possession obtained by the pliaintiffinreplevin is only temporary. It
does not divest the title, or discha e the lien. Id." 9. In an action upon a re levin
the damage sustained by a ailure to return the prope . ‘Id; '

10. When the same property came into’ the hands of . as sherid‘, the condition of the replevin bond. to return the property, was fulfilled. Id. .

11. Where the replevin action is dismissed before trial, the liability of the
sureties on the undertaking for a return of the property
that, that before the dismissal an answer had been filed in which no return of
the property was claimed. M ills v. Gleason. 21 Cal. 274. -12. The dismissal of , a replevin action by ,
the ‘es to settle in an action upon the unde ng those matters; including the right of defendant to a return of the pro " ', which, had the original
amt been prosecuted, must have been determine therein in the first instance.
The op rtunity to obtain a judgment for the return having been taken away
by the ailure ts prosecute, defendant ‘is entitled to recover, in an action on
thegundertaking, ‘compensation in damages. Id.

13. Complaint.——See ante, § 39, No. 336, 14. State, counties, etc., not required to give bonds. See cute, 6 76. ‘ T

 103. Exception to sureties and proceedings thereon, or on
failure to accept. 6 ‘

The defendant may, within two days after the service of -a
copy of the affidavit and undertaking, give notice to the
sheriff that he excepts to the suifnciency of the sureties. If he

fails to do so, he shall be deemed to have waived all objection‘
When the defendant excepts, the sureties~ shall z

to them.
justify ‘ on notice in like manneras upon bail on arrest ;-and
the sheriff shall be» responsible for‘ the sufficiency of the

sureties until the objection to them is either waived, as above .
provided, or until they justify: If the defendant except to '

the sureties, he cannot reclaim the property as provided in

the next ‘section.
N. Y. Code, 6210.

§ 104». Defendant, when .entz'tled to redelivery. . '

«At any time before the‘ delivery, of J tjhe: property to the
plaintifff, the defendant may, if he do not except to the sureties of the plaintifff, require the return thereof, upon giyingl
to the sheriff a written undertaking, executed by two or more

ond, the défenda’nt’s liability is limited to‘

the  before trial leaves ‘

ebruary, 1855, execution in favor of 1

is not affected by the ‘

or

sufiicient sureties, to the eR'ect that they are bound in double
the value of the property, as stated in the affidavit of the
plaintifff, for the delivery thereof to the plaintifff, if such de-’
livery be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum
as may, for any cause, he recovered against the defendant. If
a return of the property be not so required within five days
after the taking and service of notice to the defendant, it
shall be delivered to the plaintifff, except as provided in section one hundred and nine.

N. Y. Code, § 211; Bancroft’s Forms, 602; Abb. F., 1474-1475.

1. This bondis assignable the sheril. we v. Brooks, 3 Cal. 112.

2. In an action on this bon it must be all that the defendant neither
redelivered the property, nor paid the value thereof, as recited in the judgment. Niclcerson v. Chatta-ton, 7 Cal. 568; Chambers v. Waters, Id. 390.

3. In an action on a replevin bond, the defendant's liability is  to

tllie sustained by a failure to return the property. Hunt v. Robinson.

4. The sureties only bind themselves to make good any judgment that
 may lawfully obtain against defendant. Niclca-son v. ham:-ton, 7

5: The liability of the sureties cannot be more than the value of the progestysgged bythe judgment inthe original suit. Niclcersonv. Chatierton, 7

6. In an action against the sureties on replevin bond, it is necessary to
allege and rave that the proper? was delivered to the partyrequiring it, and
for whom e bond was given. d. 570.

7. Areplevin bondwas madetothe sberiffinsteadof the tobeprotectedby t, bymistake, andthen corrected; thisdidnotin datethe bond.
Turner v. Billagv-uni, 2 Cal. 522.

§ 105. Justification qf defendant’s sureties.
The defendant’s sureties, upon notice to the plaintifff of not
less than two or more than five days, shall justify before a

Judge or County Clerk, in the same manner as upon bail on

arrest; and upon such justification, the sheriff shall deliver
the property to the defendant. The sheriff shall be responsible for the defendant’s sureties until they justify, or until the
justification is completed or expressly waived, and may retain
the property until that time; if they, or others in their
place, fail to justify at the time and place appointed, he shall

deliver the property to the plaintifff. See post, § 650.
N. Y. Code, §202; Abb. Forms, 1,482.

§ 106. Qatalzjication and justification of sureties.
The qualification of sureties and their justification shall be
such as are prescribed by this Act, in respect to bail upon an

order of arrest.
5 Y. Code, 9213.

§ 107. .Property, haw taken when concealed in building or enclosure.

If the property, or any part thereof, be concealed in a
building or enclosure, the sheriff shall publicly demand its
delivery; if it be not delivered, he shall cause the building
or enclosure to be broken open, and take the property into
his possession; and if necessary, he may call to his aid the
power of his county.

N. Y. Code, $214.

§ 108. Bvperty, how kept. .

When the sheriff shall have taken property, as in this
chapter provided, he shall keep it in a secure place, and deliver it to the party entitled thereto, upon receiving his lawful fees for taking, and his necessary expenses for keeping
the same.

N. Y. Code, 6215.

§ 109. Claim of property by third person.

If the property taken be claimed by any other person than
the defendant or his agent, and such person make allidavit of
his title thereto, or right to (the) possession thereof, stating
the grounds of such title or right, and serve the same upon the
sherid, the sheriff shall not be bound to keep the property,
or deliver it to the plaintifff, unless the plaintifff, on demand
of himor his agent, indemnify the sheriff' against such claim,
by an undertaking, by two sufficient sureties, accompanied by
their affidavits, that they are each worth double the value of
the property as specified in the affidavit of the plaintifff, over
and above their debts and liabilities, exclusive of property
exempt from execution, and are freeholders, or honse-holders in the. county ; and no claim to such property by any
other person than the defendant or his agent, shall be valid
against the sheriff, unless so made.

N. Y. Code, § 216; Abb. Forms, 1,477-1,482.

1. If in a bond to indemnify a sherif for replevying property claimed by a

other than defendant in the writ, the obligors undertake to indetnmfy

from anydamage he ma sustainb reason of any costs,smts,judgments, and executions that come or‘ ‘ brought against him, the sherif cannot maintain an action on the bond because a judgment has been recovered against him, but must nrst pay the judgment. Lottv. Mitchell.

§ 110. ‘Notice  ajidaoit, when and where to be filed. I

i‘ ‘ The sheriii‘ shall dle‘ the 'notice,‘undertaking, "and affidavit

with his proceedings thereon, with the Clerk of the Court in
‘which theaction is pending, within twenty days after taking
the property mentioned therein. a e

e ‘Amended 1854, 87. N. Y. Code, § 217.

 

T IT L E V I I.
Curran III.-—I1y'unction.

Sm-non 111. I 'unotion, what is and who may grant it.

112., on it may be granted. , _
113. At what time it may be granted, and what is required to
obtain’ t. .

114. Injunction after answer.

115. Security upon injunction. Damages, how ascertained.
116. Order to show cause why injunction should not be ted.

117. 'unction to suspend business of a corporation, ow and

y whom granted.
118. Motion to vacate or modify in
119. When to be vacated or modih

§111. Injunction, what is and who may grant it.

$011. \‘ ‘ ' n

An injunction is a writ or order, requiring a person to refrain from a particular act. The order or writ, may be
granted by the Court in which the action isibrought, or by a
Judge thereof, or by a County Judge ; aiidwhen made by a

Judge, may be enforced as the order of the Court.

N. Y. Code, we-, Bancroft’: Forms, 361-567; Abb. Forms, 1393.149», and

1779-1782. 1. Writ.  at--No particular form is necessary fora writ of 

The substantial thing is an authentic notidcation to the defendants of the mandatef.theJ hichth tth ,ttheir. ' be.-Sum 1mr,b§,10'Ca1pgg;,’w ey mus_ en a _ peril,o y _ _ma-av

2. Iiijunotion. county judge may grant.-—'1‘hers is no prohibition in the

e,andtheini '

Constitution to this grant of authority to the County J ‘H. 6 Cd
V.  o 0

tion is decidedfy in vor of its exercise. Thompson
9. The grant of authority
cases brought in the District Court,

upon it. Id. - . , . 
q __ . , , 4. he granting an injunction by a Conn Judge ‘on a.’ bill £1e'd in‘ the District ourt is a to the action of that urt, and has the same force and

eifect, for all intents and p
Crandall v. Woods, 6 Cal.
Wright. 21 Cal. 151  '

see, new it were the direct actofthe latter.
_. 8eeWard  23 Ca1.'46_; Peoplev.

I V

to the County Judge, to award injunctions in
. p is a more power to issue means process
auxiliary to the proper jurisdiction of the District Court, and is not trenching

5. A County Judge, in granting an injunction upon a bill filed in the District Court, acts as an injunction master, and is exercisinga power auxiliary
to the jurisdiction of the District Court. The efect of such an order is the
same as if made by the District Court, and the ' 'unction is subject to be controlled, modified or dissolved the District Jltiage, the same as if issued by
hisorderinthemstinstance, v.17nornton,12Cal.440.

6. County judge may dissolve or modify, when.—-The County Judge

I who grants an injunction, may dissolve or modify the same upon a proper

application. Orcanor v. Nelson, 23 Cal. 464.

7. When courts cannot issue iniunotions.—0ne District Court cannot,
by injunction, restrain the execution of the orders or decrees of another Court
of co-ordinate jurisdiction. Riclcett v. Johnson, 8 Cal. 34; Revallc v. Kraemer,
8 Id. 66; Ghipman v. Hibbard, 8 Id. 268; Phelan v. Smith, Id. 520. 8. District Courts have no power to restrain the execution of the ju ents
or orders of Courts of co—ordinate jurisdiction. Gorham v. Toomey, 9 al. 77 _

9. All proceedings to enjoin ju ents must issue from the ‘Court having’
the control of such judgments.  ~ .

10. Courts have no power to interfere with the jumm and decrees of
other Courts of concurrent jurisdiction. Anthony v. p, 8 Cal. 26. ‘

11. The only case in which it will be allowed is where the Court in which
the when is pending is unable, by reason of its jurisdiction, to aEord the
relief sought. Id.

12. The only exception to the rule is where the Court in which the action
_o_r proceeding isvplending is unable, ltily reason of its jurisdiction, to aford the
rehef sought. ere several fraud ent ju ents are confessed in several
Courts, it would not be necessary for a cre ‘tor to bring a different suit in
each diferent Court. Uhlfclder v. Levy, 9 Cal. 607.

13. So, where the provisions of the Code require the action to be tried in a

particular county, there would be an exception, as the positive rovisi I
the statute must be carried out. Id. P on 0

1-1. The Su reme Court has no power to grant an in’ junction din‘ g
appeal. Hie v. Michael, 15 Cal. 107. ‘ pen "1

15. A State Court cannot enjoin the proceedings of a Federal Court. Phdan
v. Smith, 8 Cal. 520.

16. Generally.-—There is no occasion that the plaintih’ should first
establish his title at law before he can obtain the injunction, when the averment of his right in the complaint is admitted by demurrer. Tuolumnc Water Cb. v. Chapman, 8 Cal. 392.

17. Query: whether a tax-payer can interfere by injunction to restrain the
performance of a ministerial duty cast upon pu lie officers by law, merely
upon the ground that the etiect, at some future time, if certain other things
be done, might be to subject his pro erty to taxation? Pattison v. Board of
Supervisors of Yuba_ County, 13 Cal. 75. "

18. Whether e uity will enforce the specinc erformance of a contract depends not upon e character of the property volved, as whether it be real
or personal, but upon the inadequate remedy aforded by a recovery of damages in an action at law. Du] v. Fisher, 15 Cal. 375. .

19. To authorize the interposition of a Court of Chancery to enjoin a’judgment at law, on the ground of newly discovered facts, the roceedmg us:
is taken by the defendant in the judgment at law. Mu1fO!‘dl~)V Cohn, 8mCal.

80. An action on the case will not lie for improperly suing out an injunction, unlessitis charged in the declaration as an a use of the process of
CC:Lurt399thrcugh malice,’ and’ without probable cause. Robinson v. Kellum, 6

21. If the act complained of is destitute of these elements, the remedy of

' ' the injured  is on the injunction bond. Id.

§ 112. When it may be granted.

An injunction may be granted in the following cases :

lst. When it shall appear by the complaint that the plaintifff is entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief, or any
part thereof, consists in restraining the commission or continuance of the act complained of, either for a limited period
or perpetually:

2d. When it shall appear by the complaint or aliidavit that
the commission or continuance of some act during the litigation would produce great or irreparable injury to the plaintifff:

3d. When it shall appear during the litigation that the defendant is doing, or threatens, or is about to do, or is procuring or suffering to be done, some act in violation of the plaintiE ’s rights, respecting the subject of the action, and tending
to render the judgment ineffectual. “:1 § 219; Abb. Forms, 651-658; Complaint, see ants, § 39, note No.

1. Plrst subdivision-—Imunct:|on. whenit will be 9-anted.-—Where
one has an outstanding deed which im y clouds the title of the hue
owner, on the application of the latter, snce will order such deed to be
canceled and annulled. Shattuclc v. Carson, 2 al. 589.

2. So chancery, on like application, will interfere and prevent a sale, and’
the consequent execution of an improper deed. Id.

3. Where the petition set forth a lease and contract to psyin kind, a
refusal to pay rent, and an allegation of removing the crop with intent to
defraud the plaintiff of his rent, and a prayer for an in ction: Held, that
the injunction could not issue, unless plaintiil averred e insolvency of defendant, and an inability to make the rent on attachment or execution.

Gregory v. In!-gy, 3 Cal. 334.

4.Ashe' maybe enjoinedfrom selling real belo ' tothe
Y3f(e3,‘ll1‘It9der an execution againstthehusban . Alversonv. mm 

6. Such a sale would be a cloud upon the wife's title to the rcperty, as the
deed of the sheriff would convey to the purchasers prima ' title, whichshe would have to overcome by proof. Id. ‘

6. That portion of an act prescribing that no injunction shall_ he issued
against the commissioners appointed for the sale of the State interest within
ililwater line, is invalid. Guy v. Her-mance, 5 Cal. 73: Stone v._ Bllcias, 24 Id.
7. A Court of equity will take  ' 'ction of a bill for:.an.injInoh'on, med
bysttachingcreditors of an insovent,-to restrain proceedingson execution
zgninst the property attached under a judgment against the debtor, in favor

another. alleged to have been obtained by fra where all the material
glléoglatgxas of the bill, except fraud, are admitted.’  v. Dmaeaberg,

8. Itwouldberequiringthe creditors todoavain act to com them to
await theirj ent at law and a return of; ex¢ution. when it admitted
thattheonly ectwouldbesreturnofnullabona, andthepropertyattsched
would, in the mean time, have passed to innocent purchasers on execution
sale under the judgment. Id.

9. A ferry owner, prevented from o a renewal of his license, either

bythe incompetency or refusalof the : , rstoaotinthe premises, has.

a right to an injunction to restrain another party from running a ferry under

license tedbéthecou J 'thin mileofthelrst
 d ferry. g(f'.h‘:rdv. , 7 c.1°.‘i17'id8°’ '1 ‘

10. Where husband and wife execute a conveyance of their homestead,
which the husband delivers to the purchaser before the purchase money
5ereforispaid,whichisafterwardfraudulentlyattaehed,inasuitb ht

the real though not ostensible purchaser, ‘net the husband alone:"$d.
e8q' wglllcompelacancellationofthe soabtained. Stillv.8aun11. A complain’ t alleging’ that laintifs had, for a lo time, conve ed
watsrfromastream, formrningprlirposes, bymeans of adligeh, andhad us
acquired a prior right to the en oyment and use of the -water, and were in the
peaceable possession thereof w en defendants wrongfully diverted the same,
and deprived plainliis thereof, and were continuing so to do, is sumcient to
namaintain a prayer for an injunction. _ Tuolumne Water 0'0. v. Chapman, 8 Cal.
12. No equitable remedy can be had for a mere past diversion of a watergames; but Ethan the injury is continuing, relief may appropriately be sought

equr . .

13. enapartyhas ‘vans missorynote,and the yeeessignsthe
note, without recourse, glfter maptirrity, and suit is broughtpfipon the note by
the aesignee, the makerthen mes hisbill againstthe aesignorandassidgnee,

' fraud in ob ' ' the note, and praying for an injunction, an that
die n be canceled: ad, that the case was a proper one for equitable
relief, and the maker had the ' t to have the note canceled, so as to prevent
future litigation. Domingo v. man, 9 Cal. 97.

14. The ' t of a party to en’ in a sale of his roperty for another’s debt
is not deni and is supportedoby several deaisigns of the Supreme Court.

Hickman v. 0'Nen1, 10 Cal. 294; Ford v. Rigby, Id. 449.

15. The ' tofhomesteadhavingonce attached,and nothavingbeen
alienated, a from the sheriff, under an execution against the husband,
would be a cloud u n the title, and prevent the free alienation of the prop¢?bythehusban andwife. Dumrv. Tbur, 1Cal. 347.

6. A. leased furniture toB.; during the lease, F. bought thefurnitureof
4., B. remaining in possession and acknowledging F.’s title. J., sheril,
having an execution in favor of B. and against A., levied on the furniture as
thepropertyofa. Rthereuponnledhisbilltoenjointhesale. Held,that
the remedybyinjunction is proper, as it is the only speedy,jiag3uate and
uneunbarrassedremedytheleesorhastovindicatehisrights. v. Rigby
cndlrwin, l0Cal.449. 17. Thejur-isdictionofaCourttoen' inasaleofrealestateisoo-extensive
withimjurisdictiontosetaside, ordea-tobecanoeled.,adeedofsuch
pl-upert'{,.e Itisnotnecessaryforitsassertioninthelattercasethatthedesd
should tive,ifsu£eredtoremainuncanceled,topassthetitle,cr
&t the ense tothedeed should restinextrinsicevidence,liabletoloee,
or be available only in sanity. It is sumcient to call into exercise the 
dictionoftheGourt,that edeedcastsacloudoverthetitleoftheplamtil.
3.sinsuchcasetheCourtwHlrcmovethecloud.bydimctingthecancellation
of the deed, so itwill interfere to prevent asale from which a conveyance
creating suchacloud must result. Pirley v. Huggins, 15 Cal. 127. l

18» L. conv reel roperty by deed to the wife of M. for 84,000, which mm

b recited in as the consideration. Subsequently M. and wife conve ,
their joint deed, the property to plaintifff, for the consideration recited there

$9,500. This deed was acknowledged by both husband and wife. and on the
ackuowi t two certificates were indorsed by the notary, both of which
were sum ent in form as to the acknowledgment of the husband, but only one
of themwaesulcient as to the acknowled ment of the wife; the otherwas
defective. The deed was recorded with the efective certificate, the other being
cétted. Later still, defendants, H. and H., recovered judgment against 11.,
which was duly doeketed, and became, from the time of its docketing, alien c
:2’?-opertnin the county in which was situated the property embraced in '

from to I. and wife. Upon this-judgment execution was issued, plr

hthehanth eftheeherilf, who levied iton proper-tyineaiddeed,andav

tbedforulealitlnrlshhtitleandintuestwhichli. had therein at'the tine
said judgment became alien, etc. Plaintilfliles his bill to e ‘on: thissale. Held.
. . became mm ,
l‘€§‘.'i'&."§’:“ia°“°“ "°' 2.“ 3'5 "7;°.!’.°"’.....:,-"°.‘.‘.."§’.'..T‘ .3§°.’... i.3?§.“¢3?t.".7£
solute tiggofthe husbanzandpauedinmll tltletoplaintillundertb
deed to . . ‘
-. 19. The true test hywhich the question whether a deed would casts cloud
upon the title of the plaintili‘ may be determined is this: Would the owner 0! the
i:.?*:: '£'.‘.‘.‘...‘.:’:‘l.‘.?.'a‘ °.f.°§‘?.2’.‘.“'.°$‘.‘.:‘.’.§‘..??“1i.‘ ‘3{.:‘.':‘i '.1“£:'.f’§"“'§" ‘i‘}“;".i‘.°£‘ 13‘-:oo:’°"i
would be neceuary, the cloud would exist; otherwise not.“-ii. .

20. Cloud upon tit1ea.—See mrther Ramsdea v. Fuller, 28 Cal. 38; Thompaonv. h. 29 Cal. I89;seeanle,Noa. I, 4.6;post,No. 27. ‘
' 21. P aintilfs are owners of mining claims located in the bed of a creek, and
defendants own claims situated on a hill in the vicinity. The refuse matter

_hed from defendants’ claim is deposited on plaintids’ claims, to such an ex:
nt as to render the working of them impracticable. Plsintima’ claims were’
gt: located, and are valuable only for the gold thegecontain. Held, that plain-‘
' are entitled to damages for the injuries done t ir claims by such deposit,
and to an injuction against the same in future; that the e ' yment of their
claims lies in the use necessary to obtain the old, and that to . terruplt this use
is to take away the opportunity to enjoy, an defeat the object for w ‘ch they’
wear; located and taktiin possession oei".i Logan v. Discou, 169d C1113 623.
.Iujunctionis e ro rrem tostayathreaten ,urytoari@J
oi way. Kittie v. Pftifgfl Cal.  '
. 23. The construction oi‘ a reservoir across the bed of a ravine, for the purpose of collecting the water llowing down the same, to be used in irrigating a
garden orfruittrees, givetheparty constru ' the same a vested right of
p in the reservoir, and the right to have e water dow into the same,
of w ' he cannot be divested b‘y"Be1-sons subsequently entering for mining
urposes, and a Court of equi ' enjoin miners thus euteririg from i ‘urthe reservoir, or diverting e water therefrom. Rupley v. deli, 23 

24. Where the statute, under which proceedings for the condemnation at
land for road purposes is taken, is unconstitutional, or its provisions are not
strictly pursued‘, or aieqtge is hliot given to £15 owner of the land, or the waxpenlag tion is no ten to ‘m, a perpe injunction against’ opening’ 
road will be granted. Curran v. Sllattuelc, 24 Cal. 431. ’
2 26. A perpetual injunction against opening a road, under proceedings which
have been taken, does not prevent laying out a road at any future time, over
the same land whenever the proper steps are taken to acquire the right of way,
and the rl ht has been secured. Id.

26. An uiunction will be nted,attlmsuit of theme ages of real property, to restrain the commiss on of waste upon the mort premises; but before it is granted, it must be made to ap that the commission of the threatsued waste will materially impair the va ne of the mortgaged property, so as to
render it inadequate security for the mortgaged debt, and that the efendanh
are Insolvent. or unable to respond in damages for the threatened injury. Rob.
inoouv. Russell at al., 24 Cal. 473.

27. A sale by a sherin’ of real estate, upon an execution, against the grantor,
zioll, even if not e ectual to pass the title to the purchase, create a doubt as to

validity of the grantee’s title, and cast a cloud upon it, and the We can
maintain an action to emoin the sale. England v. Lewis et al., 25 CaL . ”

28. One who is the owner of land, and in possession of the same, is not entitled to an iriunction to restrain a sheriff from executing a writ of restitution,
issued on a ndgment, rendered against third parties, to which judgment the
plaintifff is a stranger. Ibvia v. Ellis et al., 25 Cal. 516.

29. ibmiinson v. Bubio, 16 Cal. 202; disapproved of by Currey, 1. Id.

0. In an action brought by the State to- rocnre the cancellation of a patent

‘and sold without authority of law. the laimlng nder the
t is engaged in removing mineral-from the laad‘,m:th'§t:te ientirled to in

..

thede ttrom , the .101‘.zqtiésnhat, ,sfendsu_ reInovlng,ssms.Poop_lev _

y 31. Where abill is filed by the people, on the relation of the Attorney-General.’
in enjoin the State Treasurer from paying money out of the Treasury, on the
ground of the unconstitutionali of the act directing the Treasurer to make the
payment, and the Court, on the al trial, deny the injunction. the judgment dothe injunction should not contain a clause adj ' and decreeing that
 t pay over the money as required by the w. People v. P ,
., 83.  of equity may restrain the commission of a u-esspass about to be
committed, by takin down fences and openin a road through the plaintitl"l
land. in pursuance 0 an order of the Board of upervisors, rematurely made.

Us-(gs3g.v.Burtnd1,31Cal.406. ’Seepost,No.36-.-38; oorov.Massini_.33_
5 . . .

 If plaintiffgmevail in an action to quiet title, a decree inserted in the judgment enjoining efendant from making any further contest on laintid"s title
even if not strictly correct, does not injure defendant. Such ecree does not

preclude defendant from availing himself of an after acquired title. Read v,
Qlda-wood, 32 Cal. 109. '

. 3£._8ooaIdaubdivin|on.1nlupe!nble1nju1y.—Wh_ere premises containing
of gold are held under a patent from the United States, an injunclies to prevent miners from excavating ditches, digging up the soil.
W“ “ i}"mo.g"i°"c‘:’§ ‘h1"4"c'I';i"i’°3 ‘‘}’ie....:.a'‘'*°’’“'’‘’°2':°za‘i':c°‘1‘'“c7.i'“4“s'i‘°‘‘°‘‘‘'
, ' ., . 37 ; w v. . . .
‘ _, ,  plaintiff retends no title to the soil, but only toe franchise,
%oi$.heWr&alty_ can séor Cane 4:51:-3reparabie damage, or throw a cloud on his
_ ,. I b - Yo W8; . 0 e .
3 ,. Lirit of ', 'on will lie, to restrain trespassmenteringupona
 claim, _ removin e aurifes-one quartz from it, where the injury
was to be  irreparable. It eomports ‘more with justice to
. la pargeetorzrsu-ngnctheh-espassth%nCt‘¢ile3t;\7re theplamtidtohis remedy
vr. creed may a. v.1ii'emonl, . .

F37. The removal of gold from a mine is emphatically taking away the en__ A of the estate, andcomenevfthilxathat class of trespassin which

_ q are now umversall_ y gran .
.' A‘n injunctiotilil will not be bnted in ails)!‘ o£ne‘.in action at’ trespass, un_ it  e  ' ' e e cannot oompensn
i A ' aldron V. Marsh, 5 Cal. £19. a
a bill avers that the plaintifffs are the owners and in possession
. ‘ " qt land; that defendants are insolvent, and threaten to. and will.
let’ upon said land, and by excavations, embankments, and diverting valuand  thereon,£§shBail it of the substance of. the m.heI.'it     
 
  
  
 
   
    
    
   

, ”na‘ccl,n3¢d.,  '. a title, injunction lies, Beasley v. Th

‘an injunction lies to preventminers from excavating

. . ’ ‘ the soil, and doodingn portion of the  for the
-- - edrac thegold. Hensbawv.01arlc,e1tdmw 

,1;    ‘  
- _ . '_.  two hundred and twelve acres of landnnder thePoQ“ ' '1 ts , inches; it, and plants it with (guiheand ofnunsmqntsl
‘enteru .na rtion t tractormining
  - ii-'°1'*’*‘:,,"°°-':,.t;:*“:*.r‘:1“5"".*,'=*~-'a “:““s::er,
 - ~   ' -  . ,, an 30 oypanns pr ‘.'



     

  
   

 

. . Plaintld‘ sued for _damages_for_ the trespasses
  It’  injunction against future trespasses—verdic$:
aim-d the‘p tit!‘ forty"-two dollars damages." Judgment aq,   to perpetuate the ' 'unction. Plaintm‘  re ‘ ,, _. amt in a previous suit. H 4, that the verdict is conclur;.:i—. of ' "parties, and that perpetual injunction

  that the nature of the property destroyed, .
'* Oo’Ue‘ ‘ ,’ it‘ such that the injury is irreparable; that 

 _ eontainingde 'ts of oldareheld under a patent '
ms“ is, 9°“ 8 ~

is not bound to take the more money value of the trees, as they may possess
a peculiar value to him. Daubenspeclc v. Grear, 18 Cal. 443.

42. An action will lie to enjoin a threatened trespam on land. where the treapass, if committed, would destroy the substance of the land, which could not be
spteecgillcaily replaced. Moore v. Massini, 32 CaL 590. [See authorities therein
c .

43. Injunction when plaintid is in possession. An injunction lies to restrain
a threatened injury to real propeyy, in the nature of a waste, even if the plaintifff is in possession of the land.
44. An injunction ought not to be granted, unless equitable circumstances,

beyond the mere allegation of irreparable injury, he shown—as insolvency, impediments to a judgment at law, or to adequate l l relief, or a threatened destruction of the property, or the like. Burnett v.  , 13 Cal. l56. _
45. Cutting, destro ing, or removing rowing timber, is suillcient ground for
an injunctiomwithou any allegation of nsolvency. Natoma Water and Mining
00. v. Clark-in, 14 Cal. 544. '

46. Waste. iniunotlon to restrain.—An injunction lies torestrain threatened
injury to real property, in the nature of a waste, evenif the plaintiil‘ is in he
possession of the land. Moore v. Massini, 32 Cal. 590.

47. In cases of waste, if anything is about to be abstracted from the land
which cannot be restored in specie, it is no objection to the injunction that the
party making it ma possibly recover what others may deem an equivalent in
money. Hicks v. icliacl, 15 Cal. 107.

48. Against the cutting of timber the owner of real property is entitled to the
preventive remedy of injunction. Whilst the timber is growing, it is part of
the realty, and its destruction constitutes that kind of waste, the commission of
which a Court of equit will, upon petition, restrain. When ones out, the character of the property changed ; it has ceased to be a art of the realty, and
has become personal , but its title is not changed. It elongs to the owner
of the land as much rwards as previously, an be may pursue it into whosesoever hands it goes, and is entitled to all the remedies for its recovery which
the law affords for the recovery of an other personal property wrongfully
taken or detained from its owner. And f he cannot and the property to enforce
its specific return, he may waive the wrong committed in its removal and use,
:r6:%:u1re fa‘ the value as upon an implied contract of sale. Halleclc v. Miser,

5 .

49. Alter a decree foreclosing a mortgage, the m or in possession is not,
until a sale is made under the decree, accountable, ei or for rents, or for use
and occupation, and is subject to no liability, except that he ma be restrained
from the commission of waste. Whitney v. Allen, 21 Cal. 283; ' v. Bus’sell, 24 Cal. 473.

- 60. In an action for a trespass upon a mining claim where the complaint
avers that defendants are working u n and extract the mineral from the
claim, and prays for, perpetual injunc on, and the answer admits the entry and
work, and takes issue upon the titles; if the jury to whom the issue of title is
submitted dnds in favor of the plaintiilh, it is the duty of the Court to decree the
equitable relief sou%l:tl, and enjoin defendants from future trespassa. ‘leIoughliav. Kelly, 22 . 211.

‘- 51. An injunction to stay waste will not be granted where the plaintiff doa
|(|)(;t‘s'hi‘o1;;:;t he is entitled to the reversion. Pcnaic et al. v. Jlarsden d al.,
'- 62. A purchaser of stand timber cannot obtain an injunction to stay waste
committed by the cnttin o the timber: let, because as to him mecutti of
the timberis no waste, n ther the remainder in fee aim is norin feetail ng
vested in him; 2d, because being a mere urchassr of timber he has ade‘ ate relief at law, if it does not appear t the defendants are irresponsible.
gs-dyy. Duncan et (IL, April '1‘. 1866.

" 53. Injunctions to restrain injuries in the nature of waste should notbe Bsned before the hearitaon the merits, except in cases of urgent necessity, etc.
Hoke v.,J{,ichael, l5 1. 107.

’5L'whenitwmnotliet:orasu'aintheinforoesnentof
. . M ludsln-on

m?

55. A vendor of real estate made a conveyance of it to the vendee. leaving a
balance of the purchase money un ‘d. The vendee afterwards mortgaged the
same property to a third person.w o knew of the vendor’s claim for unpaid ur_&a money. The vendor brought an action at law against the vendee, ob ed

Judgment for the balance due, issued execution, and sold the interest of the

yeodea in the property. The mo:-garages afterwards foreclosed his mortgage,
and was about to sell the property. e purchaser at the previous sale obtained
an injunction to stag the lsale, which was afterwards dissolved b the Court, on
the ground that be ad urchased merely the vendee’s equity 0 redemption, as
is sale was subject to e rights of the|mortgagee. Held, that this judgment of
Que (hurt below was correct, and that the claim of the urchaser to be subrogated to the equitable lieu of the vendor, if available at a 1, must be asserted in
a equitable action. Allen v. Phelps, 4 Cal. 256. ..

_ . An in’ g ‘on will not lie to restrain the collection of a judgment
against the plaintiff, on the ground that the judgment was for a balance of
purchase money of land under covenant for a good title, while in fact the
grantor had no title, as long as the_ purchaser against whom the ‘u ent
was take6n,g;ho seeks to enjoin it, remains in possession. aclcson v.

57. The fact that suit in ejeotment has been commenced against the judgment debtor by the real owner does not entitle him to enjoin the judgment.
He can oglxygsvail himself of the covenants of his grantor when he has been
evicted, he oders to surrender the lands to his tor.
_ 58. Neither does the allegation that the urohaser éplaintiff in equity) has
put valuable improvements on the land, an that he hcggdpaid a portion of the
pm-ehme money, and that his grantor and judgment tor is insolvent and
without visible property, take the case out of the rule. Id.

69. Courts of equity will not interfere to enjoin a judgment not 
wrong, simply because of a defect in the evidence. Pico v. Sunol, 6 Cal. .

60. Where a party failed to obtain the proper certificate of the referee, ralying on the verbal assurance of the attorney on the other side that he would
agree to a statement, such party cannot be considered free from fault and
negligence, and he is not in a position to invoke the aid of a Court of lgguity
to enjoin a judgment obtained against him. Phelps v. Peabody, 7 Cal. .

61. Courts of Equity will On.1¥i;:8l('1fel’6 to enjoin a judegdmentlrt lawfreutf
deredaga1nst' aparty reasons a oraccident,unmix wi anya t
or ' cs  orhis agents. Id. ~62. a verdict has been obtained at law against a defendant, and he
has n ected to apply for a new trial within the time ap ointed by the proper
Court of law, Courts of equity will not entertain a bill or an injunction on
the ground that the original demand was unconscientious. Id.

63. If_ a_party enters judgment for too much, or before the whole amount

as, it is not conclusive, but only prima facie evidence of fraud to avoid
gm ' ent. Patrick v. Montader, 13 Cal. 442, overruling Ihafc v. Josephson,
Cal. ~

64. An injunction will not be sustained to stay proceedings under a judgment
obtained neglect of a party or counsel, where, if the neglect were excusable, full re 'ef might have been had on motion in the original action. Borilld v. Thornton, 2 Cal. 440.
« 65. To obtain the aid of chancery to vacate a judgment, a party must show
that he has exhausted all ro diligence to defend in the suit in which

was rendered. ' v. , 13 Cal. N4.
. The improper issuance of a second execution is no ground for equitable interference. Such i ‘ties must be corrected by the Court issuing
$ewrit. .parlcsv.Dela ,14Cal.108.

67. A defendant he no defense to an action, cannot go into equity and
enjoin a judgment by de ult, on the ground that the sherifs return of serviceon him is false, and thatin fact he had no notice of the 
 v. Ford, 14 Cal. 141; Gibbons v. Scott, 15 Id. 286; Logan v. 251109033, 6
,- .. 88. If a judgment by default be void because entered by the olerk,_ without
authority, that fact constitutes no ground for equity to interfere. Chapman 1?.

._Botcman, 14 Cal. 157.

69. Wheres ' 'm'ovesfora newtrlalaind fails, he cannot  the
gcntsg into equi to enjoin the judgment rendered. ‘Ocular v.'1Jutla',
3.
70. Defendant, as coroner and ' she:-if, levied on and  for
‘hie all the right, title and ‘interest 0 T. in certain horses andcattle in thé
nds of a receiver appointed in a suit between J. and 'I‘., as partners. EU,
t itihe plainti1d"iv\_:.3s not entlglled to En  saalhe, 
the jury’ wou irrepara e, an ' ‘must appear 1 a r owing‘
 ’s right to the property and defendant's insolvency. More v. 0rd, 15

* 71. Plaintid purchased certain property under a sale on a decree forecl ‘ '
8' mortgage executed by one Pender, to which decree all us in in

were parties among them defendants here. The interest 0 defendants Womgia and Pender was foreclosed in the usual form. Plaintiff seeks to enjoin a

e of the premises under a decree in favor of Wemple against Ponder, to
‘enforce a mechanic's lien. Plaintif was not a I to the suit of Weinple v‘;
Ponder, and has not yet t a sheri1l"s deed. eld, that injunction does not
he; that plaintiff is but e haser of an uity, the decree of foreclosure
not cutting of the rights 0 the mo r, , ender; that he, being entitled
to possession until the sheri1l"s deed, an also having the equity of redem
ion, could dispose of this right, and it might, under our statute, be sold or
his debts; that if he chose to recognize the validity of Wem le’s lien, or its
enforcement, or sale under judgment, plaintiff cannot comp ‘ his ' ht‘!
nvpt beingsageptedutby the proceedings, as he was not a party. M ' v.

7 emple, 8 . .

72. If a judgment by default be void, because of the absence of the seal of
the District Court to the summons issued in the action in which the judgment
was entered, or because of a defect in the certincate of the sherin‘ of the service of summons and cc of complaint, or because of irregilarlties of the
plerk in ente ' the ‘u ent, an injunction to restrain e enforcement
thereof does not 'e. iogan v. Hillegass, 16 Cal. 200.

_ 73. Courts of equity are ever ready to grant relief from sales made upon
‘their decrees, where there has been irregular-ix in the proceedings, renderingmtghe title defective, as well when the 'r or parties ‘interested
‘have n misled by a mistake of law as to e operation of the decree, up
when they have been misled by a mistake of fact as to the condition of the
rope:-Z, or the estate sold, provided application be made to them in snih
whic such decrees are entered, within a reasonable time, and the relief
‘sought will not o rate to the prejudice of the just rights of others Goodshow v. Ewer, 16 al. 470. g e p ,
_ 74. The nature and extent of the relief in such cases are matter resting
rery much in the sound discretion of the Court. As a general rule, the purchaser will be released and a re-sale ordered, or such new or additional proceedings directed as may obviate the objections arising from those originally
taken, when the consequences of the mistake are such that it would be inuitable, either to the urchaser or the gear-ties, toallow the sale to stand. But
w en the relief is so t in one action 111 a purchase made upon atgiishxbe
of law to the sheet of a ‘decree rendered in ‘another action, it seems at the
ordinary rules as to mistakes of law should apply, and from such Courts of
‘ecgxity seldom relieve. Id.

5. Where, in suit before a Justice of the Peace, defendant answers, dilputing plaintid’ ‘s claim, and adzerwards, on a day set for trlal— laintif being
$4:-sent, but defendant absent, and no one appearing for him e Justice ren‘ rs jud ent for plaintifff, without evidence and “ y default," as the docket
reads. eld, that If the Justice erred in his judgment, either upon the.merlt'a
or as to form, the remedy is by appeal. and that such error cannot be corrected
by bill in iyuity to set aside the judgment and e 'oin ‘execution and sale
thereon. unter v. Hoole, 17 Cal. 418; Comstoclc v. lemme, 19 Id. 77.

76. P|aintin‘~has a deed of property from H. and P. Subsequently, NZ,
execution creditor of H. and P., causes the sheriff to levy on the 
Plaintilf files his bill to restrain the sale, as casting a cloud on " title.
C_uurt below found plainti&"s deed to be in sheet a mortgage. Held, that the
bill must be dismissed; that the purchaser at the sherrE s sale would only

acquire‘ ‘ the interest ofthe judgment debtors, H. and P.‘ that laintiR’s'righ't's;

as mortgagee, would be nnafected by the sale, and hencie therpe is no necessity

Er equity to interfere in his behalf. Purdy v. Irwin, 18 Cal. 350. ,
71. A prior attaching creditor, whose attachment has been levied on the per-'

penal property of the defendant, cannot, after the recover of. a judgment, be

enjoined from sellin the property attached, under execu on, at the suit of s

inior attachincg cred tor not to do so. but to pursue s_ome other course, to deQlom wgi.‘ would result in irreparable mischief to the plaintifff. Domec v.~
, 30 . 114.

78. If a judgment upon which an execution issues and the execution itself
are void upon their face, an injunction will not be granted to restrain a sale 09

 levied on under the execution, or the issuing of any other execution
on judgment. Sanchez v. Oar-riaga, 31 Cal. 170.

,_ 7 9. ‘games and assessment.—Wh_en the collection will or will not be restraine .

. 80. Where an assessment is laid upon land in the city of San Francisco, it is’
not within the province of a Court to interfere and order a sale of the land by so
decree rendered in an injunction suit, instituted by the owner of the land for
Que purpose of preventin a sale under an ordinance of the city. Weber v. The
Ci? of San Francisco 1 _ al. 455. _

g 1. It seems that it the injunction bill had been filed before the work was
commenced, the Court would have felt bound to inquire into the regularity of
the assessment. Id. , , ' _

83. In all cases involving slmpoly the question of taxation, the issue is strictly‘

one at common law and Courts equity can take no cognizance thereof; and-_

in such case, to nt an injunction is error. Minturn v. Hays, 2 Cal. 590. ,

84. The factt at the assessment for State and count taxes for 1855-6, in
San Francisco county, wasnot based on the valuation o the City Assessor, as"
‘ uired by the act creatingthe Board of Supervisors, passed in 1851, is not a

* ’ cient ground for an injunction uponthe collection of the taxes. as the party

could have a peeled to the Board of Equalization if aggrieved. Ilerriil v.
Gerham, 6Ca . 41. ,,

85. An injunction will not lie to restrain the collection of taxes due on prgr-’
arty unless it be shown that the injury resultin from the collection, to e
owner. would be irreparable. An averment of is" character must a pear in
gi‘e1b2il9l. and if denied, it must be sustained at the hearing. Bitter v. atcli, 12

. 8. ' -'

86. A bill in equity will lie to restrain a sale of p for illegal taxes,

since a tax deed is made gnu: facic evidence of e. Palmer v. Bolivia,
8 Cal. 388. and Fremont v. ing, 11 Cal. 387, overruling Danie v. Bays, 2 Cll.
463. and Robinson v. Gear, 6 Cal. 275. .

87. Where an assessment and sale for taxes would be void, and the matters
making them void do not appear on the face of the Tax Colieotor’s deed, but
must be shown by intrinsic proof. and the deed upon its face would be primafacie valid, injunction lies to restrain the sale. Burr v. Hunt, 18 Cal. 303.

, 88. Injunction. when it should not be granted.—An order of injunction
whereby the bringing of an action is restrained, will be reversed, notwith inglunotion bond has been given. King v. Hull, 5 Cal. 82.

_ 89. ere e. com laint and evidence show that a defendant is in .
Iionofatractoflanci:and ' andholdingunderanadverseti e,and
the weight of evidence is in favor of ‘a title, an injunction will not be ted
on the application of a party claiming title to the land, to prevent the efendant from cutting timber thereon. Smith v. Wilson, 10 Cal. 528.

90. Plaintifs nle their bill in uity to enjoin defendants from diverting or
certain uantity of the water of agent river, alleging that their right toone
thousan inches of the water of that stream, as against defendants, was adjudicated in a former action. In that action, which was trespass for the divers‘
sion of the water, it was alleged that this quantity of the water of the stream‘
had been app ted by the plaintids for mill purposes; that such quantity
was necessary or their use, and that defendants had diverted the same td

‘ their damage, etc. Plaintids had verdict and judgment for $21,800 damages.

Held, that the averments are insumsient to entitle plaintil to _an Egotion, the son of the bill be’ simply to enforce in equizaplaintiffs’ ed
right to one ousand inches 0 water, on the sole ground t itwas '

astheir ' tintheformersnit. McDanaldv.Beur.RiueraadAuburn .md

IL 00., 1 Cal. 148.

91. Astr-angertothetitleofrealproperty,thou3hinpossusion,cannotgof

into equity and en'oin the purchasers and owners
enforcing their ti e, on the ground that it was fraudulently and ill y aouired by them of athird rson who does not com lain. Having no h'tle
lf,itisimmaterialto ' whetherhebecvi byauchpurchaseraor
their vendor. Treadwell v. Pa , 15 Cal. 496.

92. Defendants  ti e under a Mexican grant, and a patent issued
upon its confirmation by e United States, ' eyectment against plaintiffa
for certain premises in their occupation; plain ' claiming as United States

emptioners, then file their bill in the same Court to enjoin defendants

in introducing in evidence or using the survey, plat or patent, on the trial

of the e'ectment, until the determination of an action, averred to he nding
in the nited States Circuit Court by the United States against degsidanh
and others c ' ' with them, to annul the survey, plat and t, on the
ground of fraud in t e survey, and in procuring the patent. the ' also aver’ such fraud. Held, that injuncting does not lie; that thefatent, until set
asi e, is conclusive evidence of the validity of the grant, 0 its recognition
and condrmation, and also of the regular: of the survey, and of its conformity with the decree of connrmation; an that defendants, claiming to be
ge-emptioners upon land of the United States, have no standing in Court

resist the patent. Ely v. Friebie, 17 Cal. 260.

93. Where the Board of Supervisors of a county allowed an account presented for services as tax collector, and the auditor drew his warrant in favor
of E. for the amount, and he ' ed it to defendant M., a bona jide purb
chaser, without notice: Held, that e county cannot go into equity to cancel
the warrant and en'oin its collection as against 11., on the ground that the aceount was false an fraudulent as to some of its items, and was allowed by
the Board through ignorance of thefacts, and mistake; that the Supervisors
were acting within e scope of their authority. and the county cannot visit

11 an innocent party the consequences of their negligence. El Dorado
ounty v. Etstner, 18 Cal. 144. Cope, J.

94. Where the Board of Supervisors of San Joaquin. under the Act of 1860,
(Stat. 1860, 317) authorizing them to levy a special tax for the construction
and repair of seven public highways leading from the city of Stockton. the
fourth of which was ‘.‘ a road running from the limits of Stockton via Hamilton's ranch, known as the Sonora road,” levied and collected the tax, and
then, July 10th., 1860, an order locating the route of this fourth road,
along which plaintifffs 'ved, and afterwards assessed the damages to the owners of land, eto., butbefore they had obtained the ' ht of way for this road,
passedanother order in March, 1861, annulling the!-:1-st order and chs '
the location of the road, which rendered the lands of plaintiffs of less ue:
Bold, that the first order of la ' g out the road was unexecnted; that no ' is
of plaintiffs had vested, and t the Board had power to make the seco order; thatthenrstorderwasnotinthenatureof a power exercised and exhausted, but was at most a proposed mode of executing a power, which could
he cha?ed at any time before rights had vested under it. Burlcatt v. Supervisors 0 San Joaquin.
95. he mortgagee of a lot, on which a house is standing, cannot enjoin the

mortgagor. or his assigns, from removin the house from the lot, except upon
proof that the lot, without the house, will an inadequate security for the mortgagedebt. Bucleoul V. Swift. 27 Cal. 434.

96. An order of a Board of Supervisors, laying out a road which is unconstitutional and null and void upon its face, does not affect or cloud the title to the
land over which it passes, and an injunction will not be granted to restrain the
carrying of the order into effect, but the party will he left to his remedy at law.
Leach v. Day, 27 Cal. 643.

. 9_7. Injunction to restrain trespaues. An injunction will not be granted to

ereoffnomsettingu and.

restninthsconmimicuoftrespssseswhere theparty complaininghss acomplete
and adequate remedy at law. Id.

98. The trustees of a mining corporation will not be enjoined from selling‘

stack, for unpaid assessments, in cases where the assessment is levied for the
purpose of paying the roper and legal expenses of the company, if the assesshunt

does not exceed t amount allowed by law. Sullivan v. Triunfo G. J: S.’

I Go, 29 Cal. 585.

Q. When the Court is satisfied that s wharf erected in tide waters and upon‘

soil thereunder belonging to the State, is not a public nuisance, an injunction should be refused or dissolved. if one has been temporarily granted.
People v. Davidson, 30 Cal. 379.

1% The District Courts, as Courts of equity, have no power to decree the’

destruction, or to enjoin a purpresture caused by the erection of a wharf in
Ede waters, and upon the soil thereunder belo ' to the State, without a
lieenseiromthestatounlessitisorwillbeapu licnuisance,orisorwillbe

followed by some form of irreparable damage, or unless it is or will be a hin-.

drums to the execution of some Legislative Act relating to hshery or to commune, or navigation. Id.

.101. An injunction -will not be grantedto alandlord to restrain tenants
from remo ' a house, upon the ground that the security for the suit will be
impaired b e removal, even tho there is an express covenant in the
lenoethat building on thelands‘ ll standassecurity for the rent, unless
it appears that by the removal of the building the security will be left inadequate. Pen-inc v. Mareden, Oct T. 1867.

. 108.. When there is no pretense that any  was occasioned willfull by
the defendant, and there is no iinding of unslnllfnllness, an injunction ' not

issue to prevent the exercise of his right to irrigate his crops, although an‘

annoyance or in’ may be thereby occasioned to the plaintiffs. Gibson v.
Puchla, Oct. '1‘. 

IN. Injunctionwillnotissuewhen thereissremedyst lawbymotilI.—If a udgment by default be void, because of the absence of the
seal of the Dish-ict Court to the summons issued in the action in which the
' ent was entered, or because of a defect in the certiilcate of the sheridf
of service of the summons andcop of complaint; or because of irregulnriiies of the Clerk in entering‘ the 'u<¥gment, an injunction to restrain the

enforcement thereof does not e. e remedy is by application to the Dis- .

triet Court to quash the execution. (See authorities cited by appellant.)
Logan v. Hillegoss, 16 Cal. 200.

104. Injunction. elect o£—An injunction operates to restrain not only the ‘

 qi0E§i‘0€, but other Courts on the ground of judicial comity. Engels 1.
4 31.

105. An injunction cannot be granted aifecting the rights and’ interests of
parties who have no opportunity of being heard. and who are not secured by
such bond as would compensate them for the injury and lose they might sustain
in case the writ was improperly issued. Patterson v. Yuba County, 12 Cal. 105.

106. Injunction. revival o£—'l‘he Court below may, on proper showin ,
revive an i 'uuctiou once dissolved, or grant an injunction previously denied,
and this is extent of its power when the matter has been once disposed of.
Bel: v. Michael. 15 Cal. 107.

107. If a preliminary injunction is dissolved upon granting a nonsuit, and the

judgment is afterwards reversed on ap eal, the glaintifi‘, upon a proper a pliestion. will be entitled to a renewal of e iujunc on upon tiling the remit tur in
the Court below. Han-is v. McGregor, 29 Cal. 124. ~

108. When a judgment is reversed and the cause remanded for a new trial, it
is returned to the lower Court for a trial upon the issues, and it stands in the
same attitude in all respects as before the former trial. If the plaintiii‘ were
entitled to an injunction before the former trial, and the injunction was ordered,
they were entitled to retain it upon the cause being remanded for a new trial.
Harv. Winder, Oct. '1'. 1867. .

109. Granting and continuing, dhcretionsry.—Gi-acting and continuing

injunctions rests very much in the sound discretion of the Court, to be governed
by the nature of the case. Hicks v. Michael, 15 Cal. 107.

. I10. Abuse of the writ of indnnctiion should be guarded against. De Witt v‘.
Hays, 2 Cal. 463.

Ill. The granting and continuing of iniunctions in cases of alleged trespasses
on land claimed by plaintid. where the inju is likely to be irreparable, are to
some extent matters of discretion, and this d scretion should always beexerciedtl
in favor of the pfty most liable to be injured. Hicks v. Compton, 18 Cal. 906.
‘ _Il2. If the p intiiis permit the defendants to remain in possession of a min‘ing claim several months, without interference, working it as their own and expending large sums of money in developing it, a Court of equity will require a‘
very clear and strong showing to induce it to grant, or entertain, a preliminary
injunction to stop the work. Real dd Monte 00. v. Pond 00.. 23 Cal. 82 .
- 113. When the title to the property is in dispute, the question, whether the
creditors are solvent and able to respond in damages, forms an importan telement in passing upon an application for an injunction pending the litigation.

Id. 114. In this case, the Supreme Court refused to interfere with the discretion
of the Court below, in denying an injunction sought b a settler upon public
mineral lands, to protect his improvements—a dwelling onse, milk house, barn,
garden, dam. etc.—— nst miners who were working the bed of a ravine, a short
distance in front or t e house. See facts. Studs v. Sullivan, 17 Cal. 102.

ll5. injunction part of the jn@ent.—-an injunction granted upon the
&Ildl2tl81)l(l}9¢‘)ll’;li1.al judgment, is a part of the judgment. Moan:-raloan v. Mao‘,1l6.  rulea.—In.our Courts the rules and principles of equity practlce remain unaltered, and the writ of injunction can onl be issued where the
case is one of equity 'urisdlction. Minturn v. Hays, 2 Ca L 590.

C 117. A party, who as his remed provided by law, but does not avail himself
thereof. and fails to show wherein e is injured,1s not entitled to relief in aCourt
of,Chancery. Merrill v. Gorham, 6 Cal. 41; Heady v. Duncan, April '1‘. 1866;
Leach v. Day, 27 Cal. 643.

- H8. in an action at law, where parties seek equitable relief, the, grounds of
equitable interposition should be stated subsequently to, and distinct ii-om,

those u on which the jud ent at law is so ht. Natoma Water and Mining
Co. v. larrcia, 14 Cal. 54? us

'§ 113. At what timeit may begranted and what is required to
obtain it.

The injunction may be granted at the time of issuing the
summons upon the complaint ; and at any time afterwards,
before judgment, upon affidavits. The complaint in the one‘
case, and the affidavits in the other, shall show satisfactorily
that suiiicient grounds exist therefore. N o injunction shall be
grantedon the complaint, unless it be verified by the oath of
the plaintifff, or some one in his behalf, that he, the person
making the oath has read the complaint, or heard the complaint read, and knows the contents thereof, and the same is
true of his own knowledge, except the matters therein stated
on information and belief, and that as to those matters he believes it to be true. When granted on-the’ complaint, 9. copy
of the complaint and verification attached shall be served

‘with ehe‘iu5em':eee ; whee; game‘ * ' “a iipoii ililiifaivit, tad copy or
the affidavit shall be served ivith the injunction.
i!'vYri.::a°’mwemng”2b" ord inj cti issought” "us  
. a or or an un on upon e com
itseltit is e usual gractioe to pre_sent_the __oo plaint, in advance of the aling, to’ the , an obtain the order or the loiunce of the writ: andsuoh
mwlg , and not in conflict with our statute. Heyman v. Loaders,"

2. In such case the order not take efect until the  the complaint
mgéi°mdmn3n“ilqmr°d'§q'mjun'ee hasbeeni ed’ the cue
. woman on , ssu ,1s_no un
obey it$g e'mmm  on  Giving him verbal notice that
anlorda  been msde.is not snmbient. Elliottv.  ‘I

4.’ t seems’. H‘ ' ifh   bein  at theitime an iniunction order  inadegd tgus has per-s3nalIl(:1nowledge of the order, that he would bebound hieroBennett.‘  ~,,  V‘,
_ 5. inj, ction order, and due Beririce thereof on theparty enjoined, do
groper-al_,etoen:'la'rgetheti1_ne ‘thin whiehanactisreqmredtobedone by
- P““Y§°“"’-‘3.‘h.°.."-’d°"' d‘ e '. ‘ .. ~  ..- . e

6. The tute points out no mode for service ofpan lngunction; hut in ‘con-I

{ormi with the [ _'sion relative to the summons, dehvery of_a copy is es' ' to parse service where that is required; [but whether it would 
 to exhibit a the original, unless specially requested by, th3’e8J>arty

no opinion is here expressed.  y. Mason, 16 Cal. . ,
. 7. A Jrritplseed ' ‘thesherifs hands on Sunday cannot be omcially re-'
rived by mm on t day. It can onl , be considered omcially in his hands
‘hen Sunday has expired.’  ir. , 13 Cal. 835.

8. when p'Inb?doitIBdéVlb.—Tho is  to an injunction 
the time of issuing the summons ‘on the complaint alone, if it makes ‘a proper
eaIe,Ind ls verified in the manner stated invthe 113th section; but if he asks
for an injunction at an time thereafter, he must do so upon «meme. Fhlb-'
ulhi-ydatf. Luoyet .; A. '1‘. 1868.

§ 114. Injunction after answer. ‘

An injunction shall not be allowed after the defendant has
answered, unless upon notice-, or upon an order to show cause;
but in 81101! case the defehdaht may be féétrhined lliltil H16
decision. of the Court or Judge granting or refusing the injunction.

N.Y.Code§221. . _ . e ,

1. When thennswertohhillforanininnetion dMesm tz, ifan ,
:ICt‘l:lel4>‘i11’l,apu-eliminaryinjunotion should newegmntea. ’ .W‘oo¢£
, 2. ‘When the eqasaee er a complaint ere iuny aeeieaty enaevice be the’ fare
of defendant, an application fortixi injunbtion,  lite, should be aemed.
Gaglaardo‘ ' i V. Orippe-n,’ 22 Cal. 362.

5 115. .s'eeunzy° upmmjuneabn. Damag" és, hoib aeeerzamet ‘ ' ’

On granting an injunction, the Court or J edge shall require,
except where thepeople of the State are a party plaintiii’, a
fwritten undertaking, on the part of the plaintill‘, with mm:
cient sureties, to the esee: that the pleaneis will pay to the

party enjoined such damages, not exceeding an amount to be
specified, as such party may sustain by reason of the injunction, if the Court finally decide that the plaintifff was not
entitled thereto. ‘

N. Y. Code, $222. See post. $650; Bancroft's Forms, 562; Abb. 

_ 1392-1396.

1. Cityandcountyofsanlrancisco notrequired togive abond. Bee
ante, note a) to 976.

2. The ta_te, and State officers, etc., arealso exempted. Bee ante, note (b),

. in un on o inoperativ ' '

i°s“§"°§h°§£i rderis' ' tilth undertaking mredb the
statute begiven. Elliott v. Osborne, 1°Ctdln. 396.0 roq y

4. Part|ss.—8eeH:.note, “Rea1partiestnintersst." A1so.913, No.41.

. 5. Complnlnt.—-See 939, No. 328.

6. Action on the bond.—Where an injunction is dissolved, and the suit
inwhich it issuedisdismissedbytheaction of theparty, this is noadmisn
sion that the ' °unction was improperly sued out. In such case, to maintain
an action on ebond, itmustbe shownthattherewasnoproper causefar
th; iijnunctiomi bo drtho gh ’ 3  bhgees by and using

. injunct on n u ‘van to e o ° name,
no words directly esjrressing a sgdveral obligation, yet necessai-I3 creates a‘
several liability, the esignof itbeing to secure each of all of e obligeen
from damages or ' . Summers v. Fhrtsh. 10 Cal. 347.

8. The usual bond ing ‘van, an orderwas made to show cause (Aug.
29th) whyan injunction sho d not issue. A restraining order, in the “mean
time,” was issued. The case was continued until October 10th, when, on
hearing, the order was dissolved, injunction denied and suit dismissed. Ach'on on the bond: Held, that the restraining order embraces the time between
its issuance and the heavy, and that daInagesmaybehadbeyondAugust
29th. Praderv. G1-im.13 .585. 9. No recoverycanbehadonabond purportingtobethejointbondofthe

.  and sureties, but signed by the latter only. City of Sacramento V.

p. 14 Cal. 421.

10. Otherwise, astoundertaltingsunderoursystem. Theyarecrigtnaland
independent contracts on the part of suredes, and do not require the signap
ture of the princi . Id.

11. The un of the injunction cannot be inquired into in suit upon an
injunction nd. The Courtin which the injunehon suit is tried must determine whether the ‘motion was 3:1-operly or im issued; and after
such determination, not before, cos an scion e on bond. Denoting
v.112’dTk' 18 Cal. 6  sni hich tern imuncti had

.ju ant" atinw'a pox-ary' ‘on
been gran for want of prosecution, amounts to a determination by the.
Courtthatthe injunction was nu perly granted; and after sudi gudgment,
suit hes upon the in1unction_bo Id.

13.Datna;as.—-Apartyminganundertakingtoobtainan unctI'on.,iI
deemedtohavewaivedtherighttoinsist onatrialby ry,an consented
thatthedamagesmaybeascertainedin the modep bedbythe statute;
and an order of reference is no violation of the constitutional right to trial by
jury. 3-‘ Russell v. Elliott,2 Cal. 245.

-14. Thecourtmayorderareferencetoascertainthedamagzsustainedby
aninjunctionissuedwithoutcause. Russetlv..E'lla'ctt,2Cal. .

' 15. In_ an action for damages on an undertaki 'ven on suing’ out an inauction, the defendants cannot object, way dlfgdgfense, that they ought not

pay the damages which they con to i£y because the business which
they enpined, and for the stcppgaciafwh damages are claimed,was a
publicnuisanca Ounataghamv. ,80al.38t. ' -J

i
a

16. In an action upon an injunction bond, to recover damages for the

wrongful  of a writ, it was held, that the amount paid to counsel as a
foe to e dissolution of the ' 'unction was gnroperly allowed as a

part the damages. Ahshaiev. Quan an, 3Cal. 21
17. Generally, the recovery of counsel fees, as a of the damages, is

not allowed as where the loss is consequential, but w ere the loss is direct, as
in the case of an im roper commencement and prosecution of a suit or other

guest: in a suit, it ould be snowed. Id.
. 18. In an action on an injunction bond, the judgment of dissolution is conclusive, and the onlsggquestion is the amount of damage sustained. Gelstonv.
 , 3 Cal. . [This case is overruled in Dawling v. Polaclc, 18 Cal.
19. Counsel fees for dissolving this order are recoverable on the bond; and
this, the the fee was ‘d after August 29th, provided the retainer were
before. radar v. Grim, 3 Cal. 685. 20. In an action on an injunction bond, the fees of an attorney employed to
resist injunction cannot be recovered as damages, unless they have been ‘d.
The fact that the plaintiff is subject to a habili to his attorney, wi out

Ihovgig actual payment to him, is insumcient. ilson v. McEvoy at al., 25

21. The plaintiff, in an action on an injunction bond, is not entitled to a
judpnent for damages for expenses incurred for attorneys’ fees and in proennng testimony, unless he proves that he has actually apai the attorney and
the nsesof prccuringtestimon . Pruda-v.Grim a1.,28Cal.1l.

23. en an officer is enjoined or paying over money in his hands, legal
interest can onl be recovered as for its detention in an action on an

injunction ho Lally v. Wins, 28 . 539. .

5 116. Order to show cause why  should not ‘be
granted.

If the Court or Judge deem it- proper that the defendant,
or any of several defendants, should be heard before granting
the injunction, an order may be made requiring cause to be
shown, at a specified time and place, why the injunction
should not be granted; and the defendant may, in the meantime, be restrained.

N. Y. Code, 9223. Abb. Forms, 1399.

1. Length at notice to be given.-—Notice of an application plaintit
for an injunction must be Even for the length of time resented section
617 of the Practice Act. given for a shorter time, an defendant does not
men, he ma treat an injunction thus obtained as granted without notice,

move to lve the same under section 118. J olmson v.  West M.

90., 3 Cal. 479.

2. Ounemlly.-—-Even if a Chancellor has no power, under the one hundred
IndsixtsenthsectionofthePrscticeAct,torequirean u nthe
bsuanceof the _ _ ' ' order, still,  taken jurisdictiono e gen d hhgation, ehaspcwer, andefromtheshtute, to order such

, ortomakean otherordsrinthe progressof the case, for the
furthcranceofthe ects the Won and the protection of its subject
matter. Pmder v. lastt, 13 Cal. .

3. Theusualbond ' given, an order was  to show cause (Aug.
S9th)"whyan unction ould not issue.   mer, in the “mean
a“'.:°'......"".:.°.‘: a.-M33 i'£i‘3§€:“.‘3£"5.5i‘.a‘3.3"l'n‘3i‘é’s'i°5a§m:s..¢' '”°'k.‘Z2..'i°§‘1’u?‘3
bond: Held, that_ the restraining order embraces the time between its issue
ancsandtheheanng. andthatdamagesmsybehadbeyondAugust29th. 18.

inched beforethe on the merits, except in‘ cases’ ofurgen‘ Vnecssntyn '
or when the suhfect matter of the complaint 18 free from controversy, or ' _
parable mischie will be produced by its continuance. But in all cases where
3: right  dotgatful, the ponrtczhould direct a  at law, and in the 
e ‘a mun ‘onto:-estram‘ injuriousproceedingl,’

there  iifpi.rreparafile mischief. Hicks v. lfichael, 15 Cal. 101. ‘ '
' 5. Where, under the one hundred and sixteenth section of the ‘Practice m
an order is made to show cause why an injunction should not be granted.
restraining defendants until the hearing, and on the hearing upon the order
the injtinction is refused, the restrs'°ning order expired by limitation. Id. "

6. An appeal from an order refusing to grant an injunctionnponsuch hearing. or from an order dissolving an injunction, does not create an in‘
or p(1]-191110‘ the  order in the former case, not revive it in the latohr,
pen g e 'ap . t '
f 7. The obtct of the practice of issuing an order to show cause before
granting the junction, is to enable the parties to present the case on the
merits. Id. ‘

§ 117. ‘Injunction to suspend business of a corporatwn—Icpan

and by whom granted.

An injunction to suspend the general and ordinary bnsi-_
peas of a corporation shall not be granted except by the
Court or a Judge thereof ; nor shall it be granted without
due notice of the application therefore to the proper oiiicers
or managing agent of the corporation, exceptwhen the people of this State are a party to the proceeding.

‘Amended 1865,. 793- 1?. Y.   ~

1. ‘A‘Court of eqnityhas no etion over corporations, "for thebpnb

ct’ restraining their operations or windihs up their concerns.
' urt may compel the officers of the corporation to account for any breach
trust, but'the'ju1-isdietion for this p is over the officers personally, and
not over the corporation. Neat! v. H‘ 16.  14.6.

§ 118. Motion to vacate or 

If an injunction be granted without notice, the defendant,
at any time before the trial may. apply upon reasonable notice
to the Judge who granted the injunction, or to the  
which the action is brought, to dissolve or modify the same,
The application may be made upon the complaint and the
affidavit on which the injunction was granted, onnpon 
.vit on the part of the defendant, with or without the answer.
If the application be made upon affidavits" on the part of
the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose
the same by uliidavits, or other evidence, in addition‘ to those
9!1.Whic}I.t!39,injs9n.t.i°9 was grantedN. r. Oode, mas. Abb.1§50.

1. _ ' tnwhat court" m_be.n1’trde.—_'I‘he Courtin'hich oi

Q

8. Setionmreehundred and thirty-fourof thelhastieehctprovihs that
an order made out of Court, without notice’ to the adverse party, maybe
yuented or modided without notice. The pgavlsion made in section one hundred‘ and eighteen, that if an in’ ction granted without notice, the de_fenhnt, at any time before tri , may dpply, upon reasonable notice, to dissolve or modify the same, is not a substitution for the power conferred
section three hundred and thli;-?-four, but in addition to it. Where an ord
granting an injunctiondis 1 e ea; 12 bathe injunction may be dissolved
with’ out notice. Borlan v. ‘hornton, . ' ’ ' 

3. The right to move to dissolve an injunction before dnal hearing exists
only where it was granted without notice, according to section one hundred
1  of the Practice Act. Natoma Water and Mining Co. v. Parlcef,

8 . . W l

’ 4; If the injunction has been granted without notice to the defendant, he
may move to dissolve, first, tgion the complaint and affidavits, or, in other
words, the pers, whatever ey may have been, upon which the injunction
was gran ; or, second, upon the {papers upon which the injunction was

ted and affidavit-1 on the part 0 defendant, with or without answer. If
gs defendant rests his motion upon the pa upon which the’ in‘unction E
granted, the plaintiff can make no further a owing, but must stan upon his
complaint, or his complaint and affidavits, as the case_ may be. If, however,
the defendant makes a counter showing by affidavit, with or without the
answer, the plaintifff may meet it with a further showing on his part. If the
defendant moves upon what he has prepared as his vermed answer, he makes
it an affidavit in the sense of the statute for all the purposes of his motion’,
and he cannot deprive the plaintifff of his right to repl ., by cal ’ it an
answer instead of an affidavit. Fallcinburgh at . v. aL, April . 1868.

6. Motion on complaint and answer.-—-Where a motion to dissolve an
injunction is made upon bill and answer alone, the general rule is to dissolve
the injunction, if the answer denies all the eatliities of the bill. There are exp
captions to the rule, but they depend upon e special circumstances of the
prlicnlar cases. Gardiner v. Perkins, Cal. 553.

6. The entire equity of the bill in this case being denied in the answer, and
&ers beingno sapportof thebill, the injunction ‘was dissolved. Burnett v.
lwailesides, 13 Cal. 156.

7. Where an injunction was granted on the com laint, restraining defendn.nts_ from surveying or selling the premises pen<£ng suit. it was dissolved

(in tiling an answer m  paramount title in defendants: Held, that the ‘

inynncti 1 ed, been ill alidi f defendants’ tit];
should I‘:  before izesssgrtvion lg (dnjoined. Curtis _v.
3-an-, I5 Cal. 503.

8. Where a motion to dissolve an injunction is heard upon tlm 
alone, it should be granted if the answer denies all the material egations
complaint. Johnson v. Wide West 11'. 00., 22 Cal. 479.

9. Where an injunction is granted without notice, iépon the dling of a complaink uidmanswsrisafterwardsdleddenyingall e uitiesof. the comsl:ia:,3tg¢:lin'§nctionwill be dissolved on motion. Real Jforits 0 ,. v. Pond

’ 10. Amdavits contradicting a.nsw_er.—-,On afgltigtion for ' nation to
retrain waste, or mischief analogous to waste. p ' mtg affidaviti
‘ ’ the answer u n all matters in controversy, in _  questions
of title. acksv. M , 16 Cal. 107. ' '  '
. .11; Motlnnto dissolve limited»-—'1‘he privilege of mo for a dissolution 0 an injunction u n the tiling of an anwer, is limi tocases where
thei tion is orlginsgy granted without notice. Hensluno v. Clark, and
one hundred and three Ohinamen, 14 Cal.4_60.

12. Where the injunction is granted on a rulelto show cause, it cannot be
dissolved until the dual hearing, unless theright to apply for dissolution oh
nlingthe snswerbeexpressly reserved. Id, 4

13. Aninjunctiongranted u nanorderto show cause,and sits a full
hearing on the merits, cannot dissolved on motion before the dual hearing. The onlyremedy is In a from the order granting‘ the irfunction.
Naioma Waterd: Miningco. v. arlcer, 16 Cal. 83. J

14. Special cases of dissolution of l.u1unotlon.—Where an assessment
was laid for the purpose of improving a street, thereby benefiting the property
of the plaintii in common with the property of other persons owning lob
on the same street, and the improvement was completed without the plaintiff
in ' in the outset to prevent it, and he then filed an injunction bill to
stay the as e of his land by virtue of an ordinance of the city for the urpoeo
of avoiding the pagnent of his portion of the assessment: Held, that the
injunction ought to dissolved, on the ground that he who asks equity must
do equity; that the ci should be rmitted to proceed and sell the plaintiE’I
land for the purpose 0 satisf ' e assessment, lm  after the sale
to the technical rightswhich e set up by reason, as he ' ed, of some irregularity in the mode of making the assessment. Weber v. The City of San
Francisco, 1 Cal. 455-119.

15. Plaintids sue defendants for damages for their alleged tn-espasses upon a
certain portion of uartz mining claims, alleged in the complaint to be_the

, re and in e possession of laintids, asking an injunction against

, » er trespasses, which was gran —-the complaint av the insolvency
of defendants. The defendants deny all the allegations of the complaint,
and claim ownership. The jury found, generally, “for defendants, then
moved to amend the judgment by adding thereto the words, ‘ and that the injunction heretofore granted be, and the same is hereby dissolved,’ ” which

"was refused; but the judgment was so modified as to permit defendants to work

the surface diggings set up in their answer. Held, that the action amounted to
an action of trespass, with an injunction as a ° ' thereto; and that the action itself,  failed by the verdict for defen ms, the injunction falls

with it, and she d have been dissolved. Brennan v. Gaston, 17 Cal. 372.
16. A reversal of a ju cnt, which judgment awards the possesm committing

sicn of a tract of land, an perpetuallyenjorns the defendant

waste on the land, also reverses the injunction decree, even if the decree is
not included in the record sent to the Appellate Court. McGarrahan v. Haawell, 28 Cal. 84.
17. When a preliminary injunction is granted on plaintifff ’s ap lication,_the

ilrgunction should be dissolved if a nonsuit is granted on the ' Ha:-no v.

Gregor, 29 Cal. 124.
18. Where suit is brought to set aside a judgment on the ground of fraud,

and a metre’ ' order is issued in such suit at the instance of the plaintifff,
and subsequen y, at a final hearing, the Court decides that such judgment

was not fraudulent, but valid: Held, that the effect of such ju cut is that
;’as not entitled to the restraining order. Hay-man 4: o. v. Leaders,

19. An appeal from an order, dissolving an injunction, does not prolong
the restraining order. Hicks v. Michael, 15 Cal. 107.

20..Anlnjunct:ionisnotdIssolvedorIupersededbyappealtaheIa
Jfereed Mining 00. v. Fremont, 7 Cal. 130.

21. Peudencyofmotion for a new trial doesnot operateasasuspenlion ot an injunction. Ortman v. Dicon, 9 Cal. 23.

§119.  to be vacated or modified.
If upon such application it satisfactorily appear that there

is not suiiicient ground for the injunction, it shall be dissolved ;
or if it satisfactorily appear that the extent of the injunction

is too great, it shall be modified.
Bee ante, 9118. Abb. Forms, 1460.

TITLE VIII.

OF THE ATTACHMENT REMEDIES IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

Cnsrrna . IV .-.--Attachment. ‘

8801108 I20. Attachment, when and in what cases may issue.

121. Amdavit for attachment, what to contain.

122. Undertaking on attachment.

123. Writ, to whom directed and what to state.

124. Shares of stock and debts due defendant, how attached and
disposed of.

125. How real and personal roperty shall be attached.

126. Attorney to give written struction to sheriff what to attach.

127. Garnishment, when garnishee liable to plaintifff.

128. Citation to garnishee to appear before a Court or judge.

129. Inventory, how made; party refusing to give memorandum
may be compelled to pay costs.

130. Perishablgproperty, how sold. Accounts without suit to be
collec .

131. When property claimed by a third part , how tried.

132. If plaintid obtains judgment, how satis ed.

133. When there remains a balance due, how collected.

134. When suits may be commenced on the undertaking.

135. If defendant recover judgment, what the sheriii’ is to deliver.

136. Proceedings to release attachment, before whom taken.

137. Attachment, in what cases it may be released and upon what
terms. .

138. When a motion to discharge attachment may be made, and
upon what grounds. .

139. Whsen motion made on affidavit; it may be opposed by am

avit.
140. When writ shall be discharged. ,
141. When writ to be returned. To what debts these sections

apply.
§ 120. ‘Attachment, when and in what cases may issue.(a.)

The plaintifff, at the time of issuing his summons, or at any
fine afterward, may have the property of the defendant attached as securityfor the satisfaction of any judgment that

may be recovered, unless the defendant give security to pay 

is) Euro-an or 1887-8; page 218. Approved March 21st, 1808.
3. In all cases of executions. attachments, and writs of a similar nature. here.

.$:be'iaanedagainstanypersonca-persona.orchartered com .orcorporat1on,1e
snchm

wful for more, mechanics, salesmen. servants, cler and laborer-. to give
notice or the claim or claims, andthe amount thereof, duly certfiled and sworn to by the
ellditor or creditors makiggethe claim, to the oincer executing either of such write, at an
time before the sexual ofpro levied on; and such oincers shall payto an
miners. mechanics. salesmen, servants, c arts or laborers. out of the proceeds of the sale.
the amount each is justly and legally entitled to receive for services rendered. within the
In-ty «by: next preceding the levy of the writ oi execution. attachment or other writ. not
eaaeedin one undned dollars 0! gold coin or the United states; provided, it anyor all
at the so presented and claim preterence under this section shall be disputed by

dmerthedebterorthecreditonthe .mechanic.aaleaman.aervant.clerk.orlaborer.

such judgment, as hereinaRer provided, in the following
cases:

lst. In an action upon a contract, express or implied, for

the direct payment of money, which contract is made or is

payable in this State. and isnot secured by a mortgage, lien,
or pledge, upon real or personal property, or, if so secured,
that such security has been rendered nugtnty by the act of
the defendant.

2d. In an action upon a contract, express or implied, against
a defendant not residing in this State.

‘Amended 1858, 270 ; 1858, 152; 1860, 300.

a 1. Afttaohmentd. Khan  iaatl:a.—'l‘he , offattalclgmnent la a creaono statute,an a rem y on iven caseso ine dneas arising
upon contract.  v. Sharpe, g al. 17.

2. The remedy by attachment is given by the statute of this State to those
contracts for the direct a ent of money which are made in. or are payable in
this State. Dutton v. S 3 Cal. 206.

3. The remedy by attachment is not a distinct proceedllg ill 910 lltture of an
action in rem, but a proceeding auxiliiizynto any action law designed to se%u‘1ie  payment of any judgment the p til! may obtain. Low 1. Adam, 6

4. Where G. J: Co., conceding their insolvency, obtained an extension from
their creditor B., and before the maturity of the notes, B. a prehendlng that G.
& Co. would fall before their paper became due, and that e other creditors of
G. J: Co. would exhaust their auets by attachment, obtained, by an arrangement
withG.&Co.,anante-dated note forthe amount due himat the datethereof
by G. & Co., on which suit was commenced by attachment. and a levy made
upon the property of G. & Co. Held, that B.’s attachment and claim was valid
against the subsequent attaching creditors, the case not. being one dther of
actual or constructive fraud. Brewster v. Baum, 8 Cal. 601.

6. Where an attachmentwaa issued on a com ' t;whichwaaap1-lnted
form, with the blanks tilled u by the clerk, at e nest of laintin, but
notname ' to it till next y, and after other atmment. the same
pro , w en it was signed by the clerk, with the name of plaintiffs attorney: old, that the action of the clerk, the in not wmwu on] an
irregularity, and the complaint was not void. 1'. P 8.001. 

6. It is well settled that the  by attachment are statuto
special, and must be strictly pursued, and when a party relies upon his '

ment lienasarem , he must strictly follow the provi_aiq_naof_the  '

ment law. Roberts Co. v_. Londeclaer, 9 Cal. 262.

7. Where goods were n-audulentl purchasedby an insolvent, the creditor
“::z.;*“°“ ‘’°‘°*: ““ ":::r“.;:z.°‘.. °..;‘:."*~ ‘“°..°‘h°'....°'°“*..,;‘1*.*":.;:?“;*..:x'"~
a I .canno com e was ro ‘ l
...u...?.‘iz.., 13 Gal. £4. "

 

’ 0 shall counln action wi tan , for th _,
l";.?:'$§,‘n?".....“° ‘:'?."u...u.. ..i°."i.°‘.’a.t2' ....,f.";‘l§.:......“"‘:......:*?..’.?.°°“"’ ~
priority payment thereof: but, in case ac on is rendeuedn by 3 as ,
said. or either debtor or creditor, and Judgment shall be had for part

gmst. in. costs. thooosta'attend1natheprosacnt1on'o1satdac 
en‘

qqd  Itrtter. if the amount of assets, after deducting coats of levy sag
“nglikewlaa be a [prefen-ed_ claim. with the aunt 30.31313  
notd adequate tothepayment of all of the prrmrted claims of this class, they an be

‘pat p-orata outofthe fund harebymadeappilcable there ‘ ;aadp-outdd

. , . y A , y , am
3-‘fliisiluin-is'&“ 4;:-:'1§1i°n.' RH '7""-i’-'21. mum’  5"."

3: mm». James-~(13:ca1; 434)‘ goes nthe El-otmd'that'the'debt on
which the attachment issued wascq-uitabiy , mid ence; does not candid‘ ‘
;itlImthe=rule lsiddnwn here. Davis 7. Eppiuger, 18 Cal. 378. Seepod;

o. .

Avritofattachmentirefectnaltochangei thetitie of-personalproperty;
only from the time of levy. Tbjfts v. Hanlove 14 Cal. 47. '

10. An attachment  on a debtcontractsdatan timesinoo‘

11. The words "made after the passage of this Act," in the Act concerning-;
sthchments, are not limited to debts contracted after the amendment of the
Adin 1860, butreferto theAct aspassedin 1851. Id.

13. An attachment,-reg'n1a.r upon its face, is not voidbecanse thecomplaint
does not setups cause of action which warrants the issuance of an attaching. HeComb v. Reed, 28 Cal. 281.

Anqqaealbondisaccntract for the &na d.
y.

 of section 120af.the.PracticeAct. v..PhiBips, Oct.

1!; Attachment. whenit cannottssne.—Inanaction to recover
hrcollision, their  no indebtedness arising upon cont:-act,.an a .
insnteannotissue. v. Sharpe, 20a]. 24.

15. A debtdne formerchandise sold in Boston to residentsofsan Francisco;
and forwarded to the latter, they sti ulating to pay by remitting funds to Boston, isnetthe subject of a an attacgnent under theztict. of the twenty-ninth
ct',Apu-il, 1851. Duttonv. Shelton, 3Cal. 208.

16._ An attachment, issued before the issuance of the summons in the suit,-.

is1md,.andthesubseqnentiuuanceot'thesummonscannotcureit. Lotan_

17. Where two shareholders in a joint stock company scldto the company
gosh to a amount, and afterwards, during the existence of the company.
their to A., and assigned their account for such goods to B., who
Ilch company on said account‘ by attachment: Held, that such action
 there having een no final settlement of the part; .
 , no balance struck, andno e ress promise on the art of-‘
 60 members topaytheir ascertain p on. Ballard v.  5,

18. Theindebtednessof amsksruponapromimorynote, before its maturv
ity, is not the ' of attachment. His obligation is not’ to the pa ee nrned in the note, to the holder, whoever he may be. Gregory v. Jig‘ -10 OaL- 309. Non-can such indebtedness, after thematnri of theinote,
attached, unless the note is at the time in the possession of e defendant.
from when its delivery can be enforcedon its payment upon the attachment;
19. An attachment issued before thematurityof the’ debt is pt-Ema facts void”
a subsequent attachment. Patrick: v. Montader, 18 Cal.’ 434.

. An attachment issued tgrn a debt not due, is void as against creditou.
zine  injnriously ected by it. Davis v. Eppinger, 18 Cal. 378.

21. Ifthe  a vendor's lien to secure his debt onreal

out of this State, an attachment cannot issue. Hill v. G-rigsby, 32 ,

. The vendor of‘ real estate cannot take out an attachment for unpaid
Eh-e money, if’he~can enforce a lien for such purchase money. It mat‘not whether such lien is one which of ‘equity will enforce in favor
0£ i$-H’ one-created byoontract. BL. See: Path-r.

. An attachment cannot issue when theplainitfhas alien to secui-chm

_ and itmstters not whether the-lien is one recognised  etcquity. or is one of statutory origin and resting in contract. Id. '

Ia. Byandagntnstpashssua-Whereonspsrtner-buys~onthis:2aartn ‘ ‘
Iypingbpny.the'dabh  the partnership remains be "for $1‘ "
dehs  ‘libs lien otarmereditorsattaohingmustbsr

F1

R

Eng;

ref rred to the lieu of an individual creditor of the remaining partner attach’ grst. Conroy v. Woods, 13 Cal. 626.
. The filing of a bill by one partner against his copartners for a dissolution and account, and praying foran injunction and receiver, and an appoi_nt- _

ment of a receiver by the Court, does not prevent a creditor from

by attachment and gaining a riority over other creditors, until a final decree .
of dissolution and order of ' rribution. Adams v. Woods ¢ Haskell, T. A.

Lynch at al., Interuenors, 9 Cal. 24.

26. Tenant in oommon.—-A sheriff having an attachment against V., may
levy on his interest in the grain; and to efect this, may take and retain possession of the entire quantity of grain; but he can sell under the execution on

the judgment that may be recovered in the action only the undivided one-third ‘

interest of V., the lgurchaser at the sale becoming tenant in common with B.
_Bemalv.Hovious, Cal. 641.

B7. Creditors hilJ.—A lien by attachment enables a creditor to file a creditor's bill without waiting for judgment and execution. Conroy v. Woods, 13

Cal 626.
28. Where two attachments have been levied on the same property, can the

junior attaching creditor successfully attack the validity of the nrst, on the _

ground that the com laint did not contain a cause of action upon a contract,

ress or implied, or the direct payment of money ? Mc0omb v. Reed, 28 ‘

. 281.

89. J’ udgment.—The judgment in an attachment suit need not direct the ~
sale of the progerty attached, as the law makes it the duty of the she:-if to ‘
3"’?

sell it. Low v. , 9 Cal. 538.

30. Unless the answer of a grnishee discloses leins ha ' priority of
claim u n the funds in his nds, judgment must be ten ered for the
amount e admits is due. Oahoon v. Levy, 4 Cal. 244.

31. When the attachment will not lie and will be discharged, see § 138.

32. Priority of attaohments.——Where a first attachment against an insolvent is set aside as fraudulent, in a suit brought by a subsequent attaching
creditor, to which various other attaching creditors, prior and subsequent, are
parties, the .plaintiff in the suit cannot  priority over the attachments

greceding his, on the ground that by his superior diligence the fraud has been _

vered. Patrick v. Mcmtader, 13 Cal. 434. A

33. Such a fund is not strictly an equitable asset. The prior attachments
became liens in the nature of a legal estate vested in e sherid for the benedt
of the creditors. Plaintid ‘s costs, disbursements an counsel fees, however,
should drst be deducted from the fund before distribution. Id.

84. The debt in such case is equitably due, and there being no actual fraud
against subsequent creditors, they cannot be preferred in equity, even if the
suit could have been defeated by the debtor himself. Id.

35. ‘Action commenced by attachment to recover an alleged indebtedness,
and defendants made default; before the entry of judgment, certain subsequent
attaching creditors intervened and contested the validity of the plaintin“ s
attachment, on the round ‘that no debt was really due from plaintifff to defendant, On the issue us raised, the Court found in favor of the intervenors, and
thereu n entered an order setting aside the attachment of_plaintitl’. Held, that
the or er was erroneous in entirely setting aside the plaintifffs attachment, and
must be modified so as merely to postpone the plaintifffs lien to that of the
intervenors. Speyer v. Ihmels, 21 Cal. 280.

36. Clerk, to issue attachments in a certain order.—It is the duty of the
clerks of the District Courts to issue and deliver to the parties respectively or
toweir attorneys. writs of attachment in the order in which the preliminary

Saperas are presented to them, and the writs demanded. Lick: v. Madden, 25
a . 2 . a.

£1.37. Rightiof IhOp£:[i0 is paramount: to anhattaohmthlznt lien.—'l'his ' t
o stoppage n transi s paramount any ‘en on code claimed
third persons through the purchaser, and may be exercised

todefeatanat-u

‘T3

tachment or execution levied upon the goods by a  of the vendee.
Black-man v. Pierce, 23 Cal. 508. § 121. ‘Ajidavit for attachment, what to contain.

The Clerk of the Court shall issue the writ of attachment

upon receiving an affidavit by, or on behalf of the plaintifff,
which shall be filed, showing :

lst. That the defendant is indebted to the plaintid (speci' fying the amount of such indebtedness, over and above all

legal set-offs or counterclaims), upon a contract, express or
implied, for the direct payment of money, and that such con, tract was made or is payable in this State, and that the payment of the same has not been secured by any mortgage,
lien, or pledge, upon real and personal property: or,

2d. That the defendant is indebted to the plaintid (specifying the amount of such indebtedness as near as may be,
over and above all legal set-offs or counterclaims), and that
the defendant is a non-resident of the State: and,

3d. That the sum for which the attachment is asked is an
actual bonajidc existing debt, due and owing from the defendant to the plaintid, and that the attachment is not sought and

the action is not prosecuted to hinder, delay, or defraud, any
creditor or creditors of the defendant.

1 Amended, 1853, 277; 1858, 153; 1860, 301. Bancroft’s Forms, 496-499;
Abb. Forms, 1367-1374; Clerk to indorse the anldavit. See Rule XLII for
San Francisco.

1. The fact that an affidavit for an attachment omits to aver that the sum
for which the writ is asked is “an actual bona jlde existing debt, due and

' owing from the defendant to the plaintifff, and that the attachment is not

con t and the action is not prosecuted to hinder, delay or defraud any
‘tor or creditors of the debtor,” does not render the attachment issued a
nctpnmty £5 against subsequent attaching creditors. Fridenberg v. Pierson, 18
. 15
8. A junior attaching creditor cannot take advantage of irregularities in the
affidavit or bond given by a prior attaching creditor of a common debtor. Id.
3. An athdavit or attachment is insudicient, which avers that the defendant
is indebted to the plaintiff upon an express or implied contract. Hawley v.
Detmas, 4 Cal. 195.
4. A pledge of personal progrty is a ‘‘mortgage,'’ within the mea ' of

the Attachment Act. the word ing there used in its most general ’ ' can

tson, meaning “ security.” Payne v. Beasley, 8 Cal. 260.

§ 122. Undertaking an attachment.

Before issuing the writ, the clerk shall require a written
undertaking on the part of the plaintifff. in a sum not less
than two hundred dollars,‘ not exceeding the amount claimed
by the plaintifff, with sufficient sureties, to the effect that if

. the defendant recover judgment, the plaiutid will pay all

costs that may be awarded to the defendant, and all damages

which he may sustain by reason of the attachment, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking.
‘Amended, 1858, 131: 1W0, M1. Seo§650. Soemlh, §"tB,ncl3(c)uud

(1)2. Bancroft’s Forms, 501-504-1375.
Amount of undertaking. See Rule XXXVIII for San Francisco. To be

'  heurand mmute—Bule XLII.

1. An attachment bond. executed after the writ has been levied and the
sthchment  is void. Benedict v. Bray, 2 Cal. 251. '

2. Inattachment, theundertakingshould precedsthewrit andaeconlpany
the allldavit. Id.

8. Itie no 0 iection tom undertaking on attaehmentthat it is made paye' ble to the Pggee of the State of California, instead of the defendant in the

'.Iuit,asthe

'6“ r can sue thereon in his own name. Ihafe v. Rosentltal, 7 Cal.

4. A mistake in the recital of the bond as to the amount for which attachxcnflnt may be explained and corrected by parol. Paimerv. Vance, 18

5. Action on the bond.-‘-In an aetionon athondglvenonee out an
attachment against the property of a debtor, who was a merchant, w ere the
sherin‘ had levied on no prope except real estate: Held, that evidence as
tcthegeneraledectofanattac tn ntheereditandreputetionofmsb
chants o ht not to have been submit to the jury, on the undthat damages res ° therefrom are too remote and contingent: and, eld further, that
counsel fees paid by the attachment debtor in the defense of the suit commenced by the writ of attachment, over and above the taxable costs, were
not recoverable, and that the District Judge erred in refusing, when requeaed.
to instruct the 'ury to that elfect, after ba ' admitted evidence of the amount
of suehconnse fees. Heatbv. Lent, 1 Cal. 0.

6. It seems that a verdictfor $3,000, in a suit onan attachment bond. where

i no petty has been levied on under the writ of attachment except real
eats , in the

possession of which the debtor has not been disturbed, will be
deemed excessive, and reversed on that . Id.

7. In an action on an attachment bcn , it is improper to admit evidence of
-d reeiation in value of real estate attached.—Per Has " , C. J. Id.

. In a suit on an attachment bond. if the bondia voi , the obligate cangéut recover for injury sustained by the attachment. Benedict v. Bray, 2 Cal.

1.

9. No recovery canbe had on a bond purportingtobethe joint bondcfthe

rincipal1‘anC¢lalsu‘r2-elties, but signed by the latter only. City of Sacramento v.
ghudap . .

10. (itberwiee, as to undertakings under our system. They are original
and independent contracts on the part of the surenes, and do not require the
-signature of the principal. Id.

11. Otherwise, also, as to joint andseveral bonds. There each ' is
bound without thesi turesof the others named as 0 ° rs, u east

the time of executing e bond he declared he would not be und without
such signatures were obtained. Id.

12. The recitals in statutory undertakings have the same etfect and are to
beconstrued in the same wayasthe bonds makingtheeamereci andare
conclusive of the facts stated. McMillan v. Dana, 18 Cal. 839. Oomplaint, §39. No. 334.

13. Dunn of goods.——The issue of an attachment. ands of the some
on , if there is a legal cause of action existing. is not su a duress of
s as to.give a causecf action for damages in lavorof the onewhoee

goods are seized. Iofiler v. Wells, Fargodc 00., 26 Cal. 607.

f’123.“Writ,towhoma1idwhattostalc. * »

The writ shall be directed to the sheriff of any county in
which property of such defendant may be, and require him
to attach and safely keep all the property of such defendant
within his county, not exempt from execution, or so much
thereof as may be sumcient-to satisfy the plaintih"s demand,
the amount of which shall be stated in conformity with the
complaint, unless the defendant give him security by the un' dertalting of at least two sudicient sureties in an amount sufhcient to satisfy such demand, besides costs, or in any amount
equal to the value of the property which has been, or is about
to be, attached; in which case, to take such undertaking.
Several writs may be issued at the same time to the sheriffs

of different counties.

137"Ansaded 1860, 315; See § 650; Bauer-oft’s Form, 607, 513; Abh. Forlln,

§124. Sharesofstockanddeblsdzwdlgfendantmay be atlaclwdandsold.

The rights or shares which the defendant may have in the

' stock of any corporation or company, together with the inteest and profit thereon, and all debts due such defendant, and
all other property in this State of such defendant not exempt

from execution, may be attached, and if judgment be recovered, be sold to satisfy the judgment and execution.

§ [Sec]tions 124 to 141, inclusive, made applicable to Justices’ Courts ; see past,
555.

1. Funds in the hands of a receiver, pointed by a com etent Court, are not
liable to attachment. Adams 17. Has , 6 Cal. 113; Y Oounly v. Adams,

7 Oal. 35.
2. Where an attachment was issued by the Court of nrst instance against the

property of a debtor, and the sheriff had executed the same, and was ordered
to make the amount due the creditor out of the goods, chattels and property of
die debtor: Held, that the sherid could not maintain an action in his own name
to recover I sum owing to the attachment debtor by a third person, for goods

sold and delivered. Bublsue v. Melhado, I CaL 104.

‘ § 125. Writ, haw executed.

The sheriff to whom the writ is directed and delivered,
shall execute the same without delay, and if the undertaking
mentioned in section one hundred and twenty-three be not
given, as follows:

lst. -Real property standing upon the records of the county,

‘ in the name of the defendant, shall be attached, by leaving a

copy of the writ with an occupant thereof ;‘ or, if there be no

occupant, by posting a copy in a conspicuous place thereon, ’

and filing a copy, together with a description of the property
attached with the recorder of the county.

2d. Real property, or any interest therein, belonging to the ‘

defendant, and held by any other person, or standing on the
records of the county in the name of any other person, shall

be attached by leaving with such person, or his agent, a copy’
“of the writ, and a notice that such real property, (giving a

description thereof), and any interest therein, belonging to
the defendant, are attached pursuant to such writ, and filing

.a copy of such writ and notice with the recorder of the county,

and leaving a copy of such writ and notice with an occupant
of such property, or, if there be no occupant, by posting a
copy thereof in a conspicuous place thereon. a

3d. Personal property, capable of manual delivery, shall
be attached, by taking it into custody. .

4th. Stock, or shares or interest in stock, or shares of any
corporation or company, shall be attached, by leaving with
the president, or other head of the same, or the secretary,
cashier, or other managing agent thereof, a copy of the writ,
and a notice stating that the stock or interest of the defend_ant is attached, in pursuance of such writ.

5th. Debits and credits, and other personal property, not
capable of manual delivery, shall be attached by leaving with
the person owing such debts, or having in his possession, or
under his control, such credits and other personal property:
or with his agent, a copy of the writ, and a notice that the
debts owing by him to the defendant, on the credits and other
personal property in his possession, or under his control, helonging to the defendant, are attached in pursuance of such
writ.

‘Amended 1862, 568. Property, what may be attached, see past, Q 217. '

‘ 1. Writ. how executed. return.

2. Where a substitute sheriff (Elisor) was appointed, and the pleadings did
not show that there was no sheriff or coroner, or that these ofheers were disqualified: Held, that the appointment being made by a Judge having competent jurisdiction, the resumption of the law is that he faithfully performed
his duty. Iumer v. illagram, 2 Cal. 520.

3. The assent of an ordinary agent, who had general charge of his ' cipal’s aEairs during her temporary absence, will not justify the sh ‘ who

 athirdperson, inle ' git nponprope in the
pocession of the principal in her absence. itch v. Broclcman, 2nEal. 575.

4. The return on an attachment cannot be amended so as to postpone the
light of creditors attaching subsequently, but before the collection. Webster

"6"-Fi.f”"“’°“““ fa fth gulan fth I fth tn
. epresumptionsarein voro ere 'tyo eactso eo car, and a return which simply states that the property was attached. is sufncient Cajiacaizs to show a due and proper execution of the writ. Bitter v.
11 . . '
6. Our statute prescribes the manner in which real estate may be attached,

butt.-ontams no express rovision requiring that all the acts nec to a
validlevy shall be set ougin the return; norcan such arule be sustains Id.

7. Nor is it n , when the levy is made by posting a copy of the writ
on the premises, that e return of the sherid‘ should show that the premiuses were at the time unoccupied. Id.

8. o l instruction of the plaintifff in an attachment or execution, reN paro
 seized by the sherif under either writ, will discharge such
‘ m ' bility. The statute is express that such instruction must be in
 Sandjord v. Boring, 12 Cal. 539.

9. A sheriff who levies a writ of attachment u 11 personal property, in
obedienceto the commands of the writ, has no rig t to let the rope go
out of his hands, except in the course of law, and if he does, an the de t is
lost, he responsible to the plaintifff in the attachment for the amount of the

10. Where one writ of attachment was placed in the she1'ifl"s hands on Sunday, and another against the same defendant was placed in the hands of a

deputy at a quarter past twelve on Monday morning, the sheriff not knowing a A

the fact. and the nrst levy was made under the writ at one o’clock Monday
morning, the sheriff was not guilty of negligence in executing the drst-no special circumstances being shown. W ' v. Buttevjield, 13 Cal. 336.

'11. Reasonable diligence in the execu on of process depends upon the particular facts; whether, for instance, the writ be for fraud, or because the defendant is about to leave the State, or remove his prope , and the like. Id.

12. The mere omission of a deput to inform the sheri of having a ‘process in
hand is not such negligence as to c arge the sherln‘, in case a writ last in hand
was executed tlrst. Id.

13. Where an odlcer, by virtue of a second attachment, levies on property already in his posession by virtue of a former attachment, it is only necessary
for him to return that he has attached the interest of the defendant in the property then in his possession. 0'0onner v. Blake. 29 Cal. 312.

14. A ishment served upon the owner, in a suit against the head contractor er the commencement of the building, and before notice served, must
prevail over the lieu of a subcontractor. Cahoon v. Levy, 6 Cal. 295.

15. The lieu of an attachment havin become nxed upon mnds in the hands
of a receiver, follows the property in e hands of his successors. Adams v.

Woods, 9 Cal. 29.

16. T. commenced suit ainst J. by attachment; the writ was levied upon
certain personal property the plaintifff H., as sheriff. M. J., wife of J.,
claimed the pro as a so e trader, and brought her action of replevin for
the property, and o tained possession of the same, by the delivery of an undertaking as required by section one hundred and two of the Code. The undertaking was executed by defendants R. and S. The replevin suit was decided
Februa 6th, 1855, in favor of H. T. obtained judgment in the attachment
suit aggnst J ., November 30th, 1854. On the 18th of Februa . 1855, executions in favor of other creditors of J. coming into the hand of ., as sheriff, he
levied them on the same property, and snbse uently sold the roperty and paid
the proceeds into Court. B. then brou ht suit against e sureties in the
replevin bond. Held, that the lieu of .’s attachment continued after the replcvyof thegoodsby l. J. Himtv. Robinson. 1109.1. 262.

17. The deposit in the Recorder-’s allies of a copy of the writ, with a description of the property attached, is sumcient to operate as notice of the lien to

thirdparttss. Bilta-v.8caaaeu,l1C_al.283. V

18. Such lien cannotbe divested hythelailare oftheshertftermaksspmpc
return of the writ. Id.

19. The lieu of an attaching creditor of real estate takes eteetimmediately
u the leg of the attachment and the deposit of aoopy ofthewrit, together
w th s desc tion of the land attached, with the County Recorder. Bitter v.

«Scanned. 11 al. 238.

‘sets prescribed by statute, to wit, de

20. Where a first attachment against an insolvent is set aside as fraudulent, in
a suit brought by a an uent attaching creditor, to which various other
attaching" creditors, rior an sub uent. are parties, the plaintid in the suit
cannot claim prior ty over the ataiiments preceding his, on the ground that
byhis superior diligence the fraud had been discovered. The mot attachments became liens in the nature of a legal estate vested in the it! for the
"°i’f‘5r‘i.‘.. ‘.‘.‘° °’i‘?.i.“.’.."'..i’.“"‘°" " “°““.;.‘:"..‘.3.°“‘°..i‘.‘i.' .. individual
. en 0 c tors must be e to en an
tasgelditor of the remaining partner a ' drst. Conroy 1. Woods, 13 Cal.
22. A lien b attachment enables a creditor to die a oreditor’s bill, without
wai ' for ‘u ment and execution. Conroy v. Woods, 13 Cal. 626.
23. t:I:!lw{f8,co::i 10th. 1858, in C: suit entitledic. and l. grad others, egg;
posing a link; . aoorporat on). attach aquarts
and l e belongiig to the corporations June 96th, 1858, the complaint was
amend , so as to the corporation, as such, the arty defendant, andjndg
ment was rendered against the company An? 14 . 1858, the property so
sued’ plailntif! the pnrclater. October, 857, . received from the corphoraticu
a atte mo on ' rope ,haddecreeofforeclosureAugust9 ,l858.
Sale October 0 owing-— . the lpttirchaser. Defendants here are in possession
under sheriffs sale on the decree. Plaintili‘ claims title under his judgment
and sale. Held. that he cannot recover; that he acquired no lien by the attachment, because the property attached belonged to the corporation, which was
not a arty to the suit until after the le and return of the writ; that plaintifffs rights attach only from the date of judgment, August 14th. 1858, and
his lien bei subs uent to the lien of W.’s judgment, August 9th, 1868, undlr
whiclI6déaf<l3n3;.nts’ c aim, the latter have the better right. Collins v. Jbnlgonv
. 8 . .
Thehenolattaohmentofreal ro rtyisnot eoteduntilbothths
Kvegm the ocgtgfant of acopyof the
writ, or; posting -athco y uporlid the pretxluises ifththere be no occu “at, and the
oacopywi ereco er.toge erwi adescription property
zgtatg  are erformed. NThe orlgisgisn pf either set is fatal to the creation
e en. heaters 17. wills, . 4 .
25. Where a writ of attachment was issued on the twenty-sixth of A
33%.: °.3'§.’. "°§.i’.’;‘."’:“.’hi'i° °°°‘.‘n.‘i°?.'§.‘a°‘ “£1? "’°‘“““5°;." if "°‘~‘f“ “"§’.‘2m...;°'”’
- o men on e same ewn was
‘with s cc ' to of the sherin"s proceedings, and ii edin the clerk's office;
but no copy of the writ. with a description of the prlclgperty, was died with the
recorder until the ninth of September following: old, that after the return
of the writ to the clerk's office, on the twenty-ninth of August, the sherih’ had
‘no authority to take any proceedings for the completion of the attachmen:
priaiwlrioiitsly omitteesi; this; the writ was authority to hula) only tier acrtihperfof m
w e 1 remain in s possession; audhence, tano erc toro e
debtor urchasing the pro rty from the latter. on the sixth of September,
took it _ from any lien o the attachment. Id.
16. It 18 the duty of an officer, after he has once entered upon the execution
of an attachment, to complete its execution with diligence. Id.

§126. Attorney to give written instructions to cherif what to
attach

Upon receiving information in writing from the plaintiii',or
his attorney, that any person has in his possession, or under
-his control, any credits or other personal property, belonging

to the defendant, or ‘is -owing any debt to the defendant, the
sheriff shall serve upon such person a copy of the writ, and
a notice that such credits, or other property or debts, as the
case may be, are attached in pursuance of such writ.

3127. Ga.-nubhmenl, when gurnishee liable to plaintgf.

All persons having in their possession, or under their control, any-credits -or other personal property belonging to the
defendant, or owing any debts to the defendant at the time of
service upon tbemof a copy of the writ and notice, as provided in the last two sections, shall be, unless such property

be delivered up or transferred, or such debts be paid to the
sheriff, liable to the plaintiii, for the amount of such credits,

property, or debts, until the attachment be discharged, or
any recovered by him be satisfied. '

1.'I'heliabilityofagsrnisheedatesh-omtheservicedfthea entand
amdsvit, and from the notice to appear. Johnson 7. Curry, 2 Cal. .

2. The doctrine of garnishment, althp:3h§art1al.|y regulated by statute, is
nottheiess a common law proceeding, eretcre in proceedings gainst a
gsrnishee, thepartiesare entitledtoa jurytrial. Chhoonv. Levy, 6 al. 294.

3. 11:0 lietrlilplf a sub-cosh-:.fctor_31led, and notice‘ gihven tag the (awng oi‘;
bm1d1ng,'° 1n"th1rty' days ter eco etionc ewo unr e
of 1855, attaches ii-om e time the weir]-lrplwas commenced, and takes preoedencsovu-agarniahmmtserved-ontheovmer ttheheadcontracttr,
aka: the work was commenced, and before the and serving notice of

133-8 ‘ o ' ale riwatnin " ' .

4. The 'lie:{t.l‘ntfco:ld€, fnimléegialnnheoa  drain»
1. Endicott, 7 Cal. 144. y P

6. WhereA.,w1:ocan'i‘e(lo1iap1-imingomoe, andwas indebted totha
handset the office, laced in the ands of B.a certain amount ofnoney,
with directions to . to pay the hands, which B. neglected to do, and where
ihaewasnoevidenceshovingthat the hands agreed tolooktoB.for their
money, orthath. wasindebtedtothehsnds in an amount wm mate to the sum in B.’s hands, and the mone was subsequently ed in
thehndsof B. atthenito!’ O. againstA.: dd,that-themoaeywasliabla
to the attachment. Chandler v. Booth, 11 Cal. 342. »

6. Thetactthatthe defendantinan action for the recovery of moneyhas
been gamisheed ma creditor of the plaintid, constitutes nodefema to the
action, and cannot set up in the answer as a plea in bar. The remedy of
«defandsntinsuchcaseisbymotion, based uponamdsvitof thefacgforatay
of proceedings until the action the plaintid or the attachment therein
lilsaodigoeed of. McKeonv.Mc ,22Ca1.667;Piereonv..M'cCaJu'll,21

‘7. depesitedwiththesherif byadefendant to ‘procure the release
dm  is in the oustodyofthelambut when he parties,b a
mutual agreement, take it out of the hands of the sheriff, without any
apa-missieno!Ooart,andloanitonttothisdpartieqthesepartiesarenot
thebaileesoftbesheri1l',andthemoneyoeasestebeintheousto®_oftho
lamandcanonlybereachedonpreceadings planentu-ytoexeeutaonin
gcigalsnoniannerssothsrdabtsane He¢hauqv.Brady,26

£.Theds£endanteometineprevioustethe_suitofthaplaintiR

$03. 8. Mining Cv0.,BI9d the mnuzaayandobtuncdjudgnentagainstit default. The judgment was made to draw a certain rate of interest, without
there being any prayer for such relief in the com laint. It was also erroneous in certain other respects. On appeal to the upreme Court the judgment
wasmodfiledbystrikingouteertain clauses, and in certain other respects.
There was no stay of proceedings in the Court below, and before the decision
of the case the Supreme Court the defendant had taken out an execution,
and caused e mining claims of the B. 8. Mining Company to be sold. At
the sale the defendant bid the full sum for which his execution called, and
became the purchaser. He paid the sherif no money except his fees on the
execution, but ve him a receipt, as is usualin such cases, for a sum equal
to the face of eexecution, less the fees paid to the she-rid‘. The B. S. M.

Company had ceased to work their mine prior to this sale. After the ale 3
contract was made between the defendant and the company, by which the latter agreed to work the mine during the time allowed for the redemption, and
pay over the proceeds to the defendant, and the latter agreed to pay all the
expenses of workin , and to pay the company wages in any event, whether
the mine should yie d a pront or not. Un er this contract the defendant received from the mine over and above expenses the sum of $7,000 in gold dust.

Plaintid‘, as an attaching creditor of the R. 8. Mining Company, brings suit
against the defendant as garnishee. Held, that the case presented failed to

"i make the defendant a debtor of the company within reach of plaintiffs attachment. Johnson v. Lamptng, Oct. T. 186

9. The process of garnishment is a legal, not an equitable remedy. and
only ap has to cases where the legal, as distinguished from the equita e, relation o debtor and creditor exists between the defendant and the garnishee.
Chssey et um. v. God is withus C‘ongregatioa,Ap.'l‘. 1868.

§ 128. ‘Citation to garnishee to appear before a Oourt orJudge.
Any person owing debts to the defendant, or having in his

A possession or under his control any credits or other personal

property belonging to the defendant, may be required to attend before the Court or Judge, or a referee appointed by

0 the Court or Judge, and be examined on oath respecting the

same. The defendant may also be required to attend for the
purpose of giving information respecting his property, and
may be examined on oath. The Court or Judge may, after
such examination, order personal property capable of manual
delivery, to be delivered to the sheriff on such terms as may

be just, having reference to any liens thereon, or claims
against the same, and a memorandum to be given of all other

personal property, containing the amount and description
thereof.

‘Amended 1355, 197; Abb. Forms, 13so_13s1.
1. An order requiring a garnishee to pay into Court the amount for which

ju ent has bee d ed ' h be nsid red im .
s....‘8m.. 3...... . 3..*.°;*..°r W "n my °° ° " Pr?”

2. In proceedin again’ st a garnishee, it is the du of the Court sim l to
render judgment against the garnishee for the amoiiynt found due by  to
the judgment debtor. B1-umagim v. Boueher, 6 Cal. 16.

I An order that the garnishee pay over the money into Court is improper.

4. The provisions of the one hundred and twenty-eighth section were intended for the security of the plaintiff, and not to confer a privilege upon the

garniahee,and the plaintin‘ may or may not, at his election, nire th
niahee to ap and answer on oath, and his liability will noltege aiecttagh;
mfgiggre o the plaintifff to take such a step. Roberts J: 00. v. Landeclcer, 9

5. A-ignment,andihen'eo1a.—Wheresharesofstockinacorporat:lon'

have been transferred as security for a loan, the mortgagee is the
oalypropa ' inasuitagainstthemortgagor-,inordertoattachhis
interest in the corporation. Edwards v. Bcugnot, 7 Cal. 162.

6. Insuchacaae, thecorporationisnohizxer privytothe interestof the
 , which is a mere equity in the of the mortgagee. Id.

7. the deliv and presentation of an order, the debt due by the
drawee cannot be reac old ct; attachr:‘efnt issued by the creditors of the dll’18W61'.
A.sagamst' anyattem t y emto orce its yment u n anysuc
wading, the order islain efectual protection, asiris also a?g.ainst the suit‘?! ‘
the asngnor to collect the amount, unless such suit is prosecuted for the hen£ot‘tlme  Wheatleyv. Strobe, 12 Cal. 92.

8. Plaintiff livered to defendants gold dust, to be by them forwarded to
San Francisco, to be there coined and returned. The dust belonged to dve
mans, partners in mining, of whom plaintin‘ and C. were two. While the

was in the hands of defendants, 0. sold to plaintifff, for a valuable con- .
Iideration. his interest in it, and gave a receipt evidencing the sale. Defendants, after this, received coin made of the dust, and a creditor oi 0. attached
the coin, by garnisheeing defendants. Defendants had no notice of the sale
to plaintiff until the day after the attachment, when plaintifff demanded C.’s
share of the coin. Held, that laintiif was entitled to the coin; that the dust
in defendants’ hands was in e constructive possession of all the hve owners,
0. Mme exclusive interest in any part until it was converted into coin,
and di ' among the owners; that C.’s rightin the dust was a chose in action,
which he could assign by order in favor of the urchaser or assignee, and after
such order, neither 0. nor his creditors con claim an right to the money; 1
that the Statute of Frauds has no application to a case ' c this. Walling v.
IghrX§‘arniah.m15CaL38' d t th credto reced i f.

. ' ent oes no give e i r p ence overassgneeso
the f when the assignment is prior to the service of the garnishment. Id.

10. Genera1ly.—Where a gamishee, in discharge of a rule, answers on oath,
that he was released by the plaintifff, and that the plaintiff had abandoned his
examination, he should be  by the Court without further delay,
unless his answer is controverted y the affidavit of the plaintim Ogden v.
Hills, 3 Cal. 253. 11. And where a party is garnisheed to answer on a certain day, and appears
and the summonin party declines, or is not prepared to take his answer, an
the term closes wit out any action on the arnishment, the summons is discontinued and the party discharged from liabi ity to answer. Id.

12. A garnishee can only be required to answer as to his liabilit , to the
debtor or deéetlidagt, at the time of the service of the garnishment. orris v.

4 a . 4 9. '

13. A garnishee should be allowed to amend his answer, whenever it appears
that he has committed a mistake or fallen into error, which could not reasonably
have been avoided. Smith v. Brown, 5 Cal.’ 118.

14. Where B. was garnished in a suit against 0., the da before he accepted
an order drawn by A. in favor of C., but failed to inform thereof; and 0., for
a valuable consideration, sold the order, as indorsed, to D., an innocent purchaser: Held, that B., having made the order negotiable, and put the same in
circuladon, is estop from setting up against it any antecedent matter, and is
liable to D. for the ull amount thereof. Garwood v. Simpson, 8 Cal. 101. _

15. A plaintifff who has sued out an attachment, and given the necessary
notice to a garnishoe that the property in his hands is attached, and sub nently
the hee fraudulently disposes of the propert , has a right to waive is lien
on property and bring suit for the value of e property against the gami“1? A ‘loom i t.Ii9nc'l£1:6?r" n r h urpose rm:

. party p sci money n e an o anot er or t e p o ing
a bet on an eleetionlxu the name of the hailee, but for the benent of the hailor,

may retract We act Oflllllihgfllo BOI. IlIdTdb03 !l0t"lbl‘lhlt II! me ‘by
reason leifctfile Q1413 'ty of the purpose for which it was deposited. BE. 7.
meal, a . . 17. The bailor does not part with the ownership by allowing it to be nsedfor
hisbenadt. theughaintbensxne ct another. The money in the hands. ofthesgent
remeinsas between him. and the rincipal, the money of the principal-. Id.

18; Nor can an..sttaching- cred of the bsilee, levying on the money» inthr
hands of a stakeho1der,.with whom. it has been deposited by the bailee, chinthatthc bsilor is estopped by having allowed the bailee to use themoney in’
his own name, when the specific money was in question and could he distine
gnished. The creditor has; not. been misledbyeacts or declarations of the hailon,
nor had he gives credttto the bailee by reason thereof. Id.

19. The stakeholder being informed of the-rights ofthe baiiormnmbonnd to.
protect those rights by resisting, in some way, proceedings against him as n
garlisllemthe bailor being no party thereto; norwill he be protected by a
judgment impro rly entered sginst him, ordering him topsy the moneytosthel
attachment r. Id.

20. A garnishee cannot plead thepeadsucy of theattadimentsnit inshetr
meat. of an action subsequently brought against him b the debtor in the stteeh-e

ment. Nor can be safely pay his creditor, the debtor n the attachment, so long ‘

asploosedings by attachment are in force. The proper course is for the: Court,
to order s smpension of the action against the $33; by his creditor, until
thesttachmentproeeedingssredisposedoi’. . -.0’Doaaell,18Cal.
100; 23GaL 122; l.2.CaL 667.

§ 129. Inventory; how made, etc.

The sheriff shall make a full inventory of ' the property at. '

taohed-, and return the same with the writ. To enable him
to make such return as to debts and credits attached, he shall

request, at‘ the time of service, the party owing the debt, or

having the credit, to give him a memorandum stating. the

amount and description of each ; and if such memorandum

be refused, he shall return the fact of refusal with the writ.

The party refusing to give the memorandum may be required

to: pay the costs of any proceedings taken for the purpose o£~
obtaining information respecting the amounts and description
of such debtor credit.

Abb. Forms, 1378.

5 130% Periehableproperty; how sold, etc.

If any of the property attached be, perishable, the sherid
shall sell the same» in the manner in which such property is
sold on execution. The proceeds, and other property attached by him, shall be retained by him to answer any judgment that may be recovered in the action-, unless sooner

subjected to execution upon another judgment. recovered.
previous to the issuing of the attachment. Debts and credits

attach0dim3I:h6..001l0,0tedr by him,,if the. same can be. done

 The sheriff’: receipt shall be a sumbibnt (Hecharge for the amount paid. ‘

LfNoon1e:a:com1aroqniredco.uthosua_sue°hytheomoq. Lou v.
H:nvy.9.Cal. 551.

2, Bagged, §,654a.astot-hepraetias.

5181.  where property is claimed by Utirdpersom-l
If any personal property attached be claimed ‘by a,thir.d»
person as his property, the sheriff may summon ajury of six
men to try the validity of such claim; and such proceedings
shall be had thereon, with the like edect, as in case of a
claim after levy upon execution.
IIe§118astothelawandp1-antics.‘

attachediselaimedbyathird-psrson,the ahenil‘ , .
' oi’sixpersons,andif-theverdict in voro
yrem It

is
a _ . uish the levy. unless  ho» .
dnbond of the Indemnity, It will only enure to the benent of the owner of

the , for the hieh ult fro his acts are
mm” .... D-:.,s..o,“,.m.°°"72“a:1f°'22:. *°° '“ °"

I. hsuehsase, theattaohing creditors do not stand inthe positionofjoint

, theseizmeotthsssomuibeinsanbjscttotheaast. Id '
3. admission that the property is attached or levied upon as the cpmty
of the debtor, and the mile of the owner to deliver it to the officer. to
prinafacie evidence 0 ownership in the debtor, and unlessovercolne b proof

the 0,5 “I0 clo.-lmsnt. must he decisive against him. Blwsnv. , 10
iii». 123.“ I

4. To overcome. this primafacic ownership in the debtor, the receiptor must

Eve two Eliingsz met, that he claimed the, p!'°P°’ty; seconds that line in fact.
0'11.

5. Whae property has been In-ongfullytakenunder attachment, the sherlifand

&attaehingc1-sditorsarejoint trespassers. Lewisv. -lohnastala. Jan. '1‘.

Q 132. .0‘ plaintzf recavcrjudgvmmt, how sati.s_/ied.

If‘ judgment be recovered by the plaintifff, the..sh.en'll‘ shall
satisfy the same out of the property attached by him which
has not been delivered to the defendant, or a claimant as.
hereinbefore provided, or subjected to execution on another
judgment recovered previous to the issuing of the attachment, if it be suiiicient for that purpose :

Ist.-‘By paying to the plaintifff the proceeds of all sales of
perishable property sold by him, or of any debts or, credits
collected by him, or so muchias shall be necessary to satisfy
the judgment: ,

2d. If any balance remain due, and an execution shall have
been issued Qnths. judgment, he shall sell under the execution so much of the property, real or personal, as may be
necessary to satisfy the balance, if .enough for that purpose

- remain in his hands. Notices of the-sales shall be given, and

the sales conducted as in other cases of sales on execution.

1. The application of an attaching creditor to compel the sheriff to pay
over the proceeds of ods attached, there being conflicting claims between
several attaching ‘tors, may be made by motion. If notice of the motion
is not given, by the party moving, to the other attachingmcgeditors, it is the
duty of the sheriff to do so, if he wishes the decision to ' them. Dicey Y.
Pollock, 8 Cal. 670.

§ 133. Balance remaining clue, how collected.

_If, after selling all the property attached by him remaining
in his hands, and applying the proceeds, together with the
proceeds of any debts or credits collected by him, deducting
his fees, to the payment of the judgment, any balance shall
remain due, the sheriff shall proceed to collect such balance

as upon an execution in other cases. Whenever the judgment shall have been paid, the sheriff, upon reasonable demand, shall deliver over to the-defendant the attached pro- ‘

perty remaining in his hands, and any proceeds of the
property attached unapplied on the judgment.

§ 134. When an action may be commenced on the undertaking.

If thelexecution be returned unsatisfied in whole or in part,
the plaintifff may prosecute any undertaking given pursuant
to section one hundred and twenty-three or section one hundred and thirty-seven, or he may proceed as in other cases
upon the return of an execution.

1. The undertaking only operated to release the roperty from the custody
of the sheriff pending the suit, and not as an substitution of security.
Lowcv. Adams, 6 Cal. 277.

§ 135. If the defendant recover judgment, what the chem’ is
to deliver. a

If the defendant recover judgment against the plaintid
any undertaking received in the action, all the proceedsof
sales and money collected by the sheriff, and all the property
attached remaining in the sheriii"s hands, shall be delivered
to the defendant or his agent; the order of attachment shall
be discharged, and the property released therefrom.

§ 136. Proceedings to release attachment, before whom taken.
Whenever the defendant shall have appeared in the

aet1'on,he may, upon reasonable notice to the plaintifff, apply

to the Court in which the action is pending, or to the Judge
thereof, or to a County Judge, for an order to discharge the
attachment wholly or in part, and upon the execution of the
undertaking mentioned in the next section, such order
may be granted, releasing from the operation of the attachment any or all of the property attached, and all of the
property so released, and all of the proceeds of the sales

thereof, be delivered to the defendant, upon the justification of the sureties on the undertaking, if required bythe
plaintifff.

Amended 1854, 87; 1863, 305. Abb. Forms, 1382-1383.

§ 137. ‘Attachment, in what cases it may be released, and upon
ulna! terms. ‘

Before the granting such order, the Court or Judge shall re.
quire an undertaking on behalf of the defendant, by at least two
sureties, residents and freeholders or householders in the
county, to the effect that in case the plaintifff recover judgment
in the action, defendant will, on demand, redeliver such attached property so released, to the proper oliicer, who applied
to the payment of the judgment, and that in default thereof the
defendant and sureties will on demand pay to the plaintiff
the full value of the property released. The Court or Judge
granting such release may fix the sum for which the undertaking shall be executed, and if necessary in fixing such sum
to know the value of the property released, the same may be
appraised by three disinterested persons to be appointed for
that purpose. The sureties maybe required to justify before
the Court or Judge, and the property attached shall not be
released from the attachment without their justification, if
the same be required.

‘Amended 1354, s7;1se4, 44;Abb.F.1385. State omcors, eto., not required‘
to give a bond—-see note (b), § 76. 1. The bond givento release property attached only releases it from the
eustalay olfnghtpasherif, and is not alt}: agxtogalaleubstituticip ofhppcurity, com
' ’ ' I u n t ' to act ' ' t.
1:3 p’6od.  po a one co Judgmen

2. In an action on this undertaking, the complaint should allege that 

my attached gaésarlelgbeaged upon the delivery of the undertaking. Wilv. Blatten, .

3. Whether each ohligcgis liable to the sheriffor the whole amount of any
judgment against him, ving the uestion of contribution to be settled be’ ‘
tween them: Query. White 1. F ’ , 13 Cal. 521. '

4. In a bond given to release property seized on an attachment, the cbligors
undertook to pay, on demand, to slaintiifs in the action, the amount of
judgnent and costs, not to excee three thousand dollars, which plain '
mig t recover. In the bond the action is recited as for one thousand six hurrdred dollars. U n delivery of the bond, the property was returned to the
debtor. Plain ' s in the action had judgment for an amount exceeding the
penalty of the bond. Held, that recovery many he had on the bond to the
extent of the penalty. Palmer v. Vance, 3 C 553. A‘

5. Such a bond is not a statutory undertaking, but is valid as a common
law obligation, and is a sumcient compliance with the statute. Id. ,

6. The mistake in the recital. as to the amount for which attachment issued.
may be explained and corrected by parol. Id. M .

7. Execution against the judgment debtor, in such case, is not a condition
precedent to suit on the bond. Id.

8. A bond iven voluntaril to the sherif, on delivery of the ro , is
valid at comxgon law. Id. y P pony

9. Where the sherid‘, under a writ of attachment in the suit of 
against D. M. Eder and P. M. Eder, as the drm of D. M. Eder& Co., is about
to levy upon the property of said drm, and a bond is executed by L. and J.,
as sureties, conditioned to kee harmless and indemnify the sheriff against all
damages, costs, charges, troub e and expense he may be put to by reason of
the nonseizure of the pro rty, and also “ to pay whatever judgment may be
rendered against said do endants;" and judgment was obtained against one
only of the defendants, plaintiff failing on the trial to prove the other to be a
partner: Held, that the sureties are liable on the bond for the amount of the
judgment; that the bond, though not strictly an undertaking under the
statute, conforms substantially to its requirements, and must be read by the

ht of the statute, and inter};-eted according to the intention of the parties.

synemannv. Eder, 17 Cal. 4 .

10. Such bond will be presumed to have been executed with reference to
the provisions of the statute; and as the security required by the statute is a
security for the satisfaction of any judgment that may be obtained, the bond
will be held to be such a  Thls is the sense of the instrument, and
the fact that judgment was obtained against one only of the defendants satisggfs thdcaconditiolré to "pay whatever judgment may be rendered against said

on nts.” .

11. Where defendant in attachment applies to the Court, under sections
one hundred and ' -six and one hundred and -seven of the Practice
Act, for a disczhage o the attachment, and an und 'ng is executed b D.
and B.., reciting e fact of the attachment, and that “in consideration 0 the
premises, and in consideration of the release from attachment of the property
attached as above mentioned,” they undertake to pay whatever judgment
plaintid ma recover, etc. , and the Court makes an order discharging the
writ and re easing the pro rty: Held, in suit against the sureties on the
undertaking, that the comp 'nt need not aver that the property was actually
released and delivered to the defendant; that as the consideration for the
undertaking was the release of the property, and as the complaint avers such
release, in consequence and in consideration of the undertaking, by order of
the Court, which is set out, the actual release and redelivery of the property
to defendant is immaterial, the plaintifff having no claim on it after the
 was given and the order of release made. McMillan v. Dana,

12. An undertaking given to a sherin‘ to procure a lease of goods attached,
is for the benefit of e plaintifff who may sue on it, and if the sherid’ takes a
sumcient statutory undertaking he has no further responsibility. Curiae v.
Paclcard,_29 Cal. 194.

13. If the defendant obtains an order for the release of roperty attached
in the action by delivering to the Court or Judge an undermging executed, by
sureties, conditioned to paythe plaintih‘ any judgment he may recover in the
action, and the property is thereupon released: whenever the liability of the

sureties is nxed by the rendition of a [in ent in favor of the plaintiff, the
Inreaies have a right to tender the plain ' the full amount of the ‘u ent,
and if he refuses to receive the same, the sureties are discharged irom their

abhption on the undertaking. Hayes v. J osephi, 26 Cal. 540.

IL The principals in a bond given to a sheriil‘ to release from attaohé
ment, tender to the plaintid in the attachment suit the amount of his
debt and costs, mph the p §E refusesthto rlpgegre thde tfendtplr; the suretiesare
discharged‘ from eiro'tionon e n,an orep odischarging the sureties it is‘ not that such tender be  into 

on-keptgood. Cu:-iacv.PacIaard,29C .194.

15. A tender of the amount claimed in the suitby the principal in an attach‘ment bond discharges the sureties. Id. ‘ ‘

16. Tender by sureties on und ' for release of attachment to plaintiff
in attachment suit of the full amount 0 judgment recovered is equivalent to

payment or release by said plaintifff. Norwood v. Keryield, Oct. T. 1867.

. § 138. ‘ When a motion to discharge attachment may be made,
and upon what grounds. }

The defendant may also, any time before the time for an.swering expires, apply, on motion, upon reasonable notice to
the plaintifff, to the Court in which the action is brought, or

to the Judge thereof, or to a County Judge, that the attachment be discharged, on the ground that the writ was improperly or irregularly issued.

‘Amended 1854, 87 ; 1858, 153; 1860, 301. Abb. Forms, 1382-1383.

1. The one hundred and thirty-eighth section of the Practice Act, which
provides that the defendant may, at any time before answering, “ a pl , on
motion, u n reasonable notice to the plaintid, to the Court in w the

sctionis rowortothe Judge thereof,ortoaCountyJu thatthe
attachment be ° harged, on the ground that the writ was improper yissued,"
does not obviate the necessity e specif ' the ‘(mist ints of irregularityagpon which the motion will be e. F  v. Glaser, 10
Cal.

2. A notice of motion to discharge a writ of attachment, “ because the said
writ was im roperly issued.” is insumcient. The notice should  the
grounds of gas motion, andwherein itwill be urged that the wntwas imp
properly issued. Id.

..3..:::.-:;  W  ‘° ‘““‘“.*

5139. ‘Whenthemotion ismade on the ajidavits, 
opposed by ajidavits.

If the motion be made upon affidavits, on the part of the

defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose the

mine by affidavits or other evidence, in addition to those on
‘I which the attachment was made.

‘Amended 1868, 153; 1860, 301.

§ 140. ’ When the writ shall be discharged.

If, upon such application, it shall satisfactorily appear that
he writ of attachment was ‘improperly or irregularly issued,
it shall be discharged.

‘Amended 1858, 154; 1860, 302.

1. See§120, auto, note, “When attachment cannot issue.”

2. Action commenced by attachment to recover an alleged indebtedness, and
defendants made default; before the entry of  n§ certain su cent
attaching creditors intervened and contested the 'dity cf the ' til!‘ s attachment, on the ground that no debt was really due from plain to defendants. On the issue thus raised, the Court found in favor of the intervenorn.
‘and thereu 11 entered an order setting aside the attachment of plainiil.
Held, ‘that e order was erroneous in entirely setting aside plaintifff ‘s attachment, and mustbe modified so as merel to postpone the plainh'fi”s lien to
that of the intervenors. v. , 21 Cal. 280.

3. If the defendant dies af the levy of an attachment upon his plrzgerty
and before judgment, his death destro the lien, of the attachment, the
attached passes into thehan of the administrator to be administsredcn coursecfadministration. ]{cycrsv..l{ott,29Gal.359.

§e141. Whenthewrit is to be returned. Towhatdebts these
sections apply.

The sheriff shall return the writ of attachment with the
summons, if issued at the same time; otherwise, within
twenty days after its receipt, with a certificate of his pro~
ceedings indorsed thereon, or attached thereto. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any suits already com
menced, but so far as such suits may be concerned, the Act

entitled “An Act to regulate Proceedings-against Debtors by
Attachment,” passed April 22d, 1850, shall be deemed in full

force and effect.

‘Abb. Forms, 1377.

1. The sheriff’s return is conclusive ‘against the plaintiii‘, and his action must
be for a false return. Egery v. Buchanan, 5 Cal. 53.

8. This return cannot be amended where a third party has acquired an intenest sdvsexisg ‘til: the ‘attachment. Newhall v. Provost, 6 Id. 85; Webster v. "Ho3 Amistakelnthedate of asherii|"s retnrnmaybesmendedat anytime.
Bitterv.8oaMsll,l10al.238.

T I T L E I X.
Cnsrrnn V.—Deposit in Court.

Btu-non 142. Deposit in Court. I43. Appointment ofjreoeiver.

‘ 5142. Deposit in Court.

When it is admitted, by the pleading or examination of a
party, that he has in his possession, or under his control, any
money, or other thing, capable of delivery, which, being the
subject of the litigation, is held by him as trustee for another
party,or which belongs,,or is due, to another party, the Court
may order the same, upon motion, to be deposited in Cou_rt,_
or delivered to such party, upon such conditions as may be

just, subject to the further direction of the Court.
lI.Y.Code 9 244, sub. 5.

§ 143. ‘Appointment of receiver.

A receiver may be ‘appointed by‘ the Court in which the
action is pending, or by a Judge thereof.

let. Before judgment, provisionally on the application of
either party when he establishes a prima facie right to the
property, or to an interest in the property, [which] is the
subject of the action, and which is in possession of an adverse
party, and the property or its rents and profits are in danger
of being lost or materially injured or impaired.

2d. After judgment to dispose of the property according
to the judgmeut,.or to preserve it during the pending of an
appeal, and, ‘

3d. In such other cases as ‘are in accordance with the practice of Courts of equity jurisdiction.

‘Amended 1854, 88. N. Y. Code, § 244. Abb. Forms, 1485-1486.

1. Receiver, who may and may not appodnt.—Under the statute, the
county judge may grant an injunction in cases in the District Court, but he
cannot appoint a ‘receiver; at least, not a thing distinct from the injunction.
Buthrauf v. Kreax, 13 Cal. 639. 2. Courts of equity have the power to appoint receivers, and to order them to
his possession of the property in controversy, whether in the immediate possesiouof the defendant or his agents; and in proper cases, the can also order
the defendant's agents or employees, although not parties to e record, to deliver the specific property to the receiver. Ea: parts Cohen, 5 Cal. 49%.

‘but there are exceptions to the rule; nor w

3. Receiver, his powers and dutlea.—A receiver may employ counsel.
Adams v. Woods, 8 Cal. 315. ‘
4. Upon the application of the receiver, in the suit for dissolution, he can obtain
the nee proceedings for procuring a correct application of the balance of
a judgment old by the partnership a alust a third party, after paying the judgment creditor of the partnership. A ms v. Haclcett, 7 Cal. 187.
6. Generally, a receiver can pay out nothing, except on an order of the Court;
ii he be denied reimbursements in

‘every case in which he neglects to obtain the order, especially in a Court of

equity} Adams v. Woods, 15 Cal. 207.
6. here a receiver was authorized by order of the Court appointing him to
rosecute suits for the recovery of assets of the estate he represents. and certain

' m ortant mercanfile books belonging to such estate being lost. the receiver
-pa d $1,127 for their recovery without an order of Court. Held, that he was

entitled to a credit for that sum as part of the necessary or a ropriate expenditure of his odice. Id. pp

‘ 7. On an application to the Court after dual judgment, for an order for a

" receiver to pay over to the prevailin party money in his hands as receiver, it

will not be presumed that the rece ver has transcended his duties and took
possession of property to which he was not entitled; nor is the opposite arty
entitled to have issues framed and submitted to a referee orj to asce n the

- ownership of the money in the receiver’s hands. Whitney v. on, 26 Cal.

451.

8. Receiver, when he may be appcinted.—After verdict and ljgilclgxnent
for plaintifff, in an action torecover possession of realestate, andw ' a motion for a new trial is pending, a receiver of the rents and proceeds of the
property in dispute may be appointed, if the facts of the case are such as

A warrant it. Id.

9. In an action to recover the Possession of land, after verdict and ju
ment for the plaintifff, if the de endant in possession is receiving in y

 large sums of money from the sale of the waters of mineral springs on the

land, and is insolvent, a receiver may be a pointed, pending the further litigation, on motion for a new trial and appens. Id.
10. If notice is given of an ap lication for an injunction, and the petition
rays for an injunction, the J , on the hearing, may appoint a receiver, if
e facts make out a roper case for a receiver, and no objection is made on
the ground of want 0 notice of the ap lication. Id.
11. The purchaser at judicial sale 0 a mining claim, ma , where the
dgment debtor remains in possession, working the claims, an is insolvent,
vs a receiver appointed to take charge of the proceeds, d ' the period
allowed by the statute for redemption. Hill v. Ihylor, 22 Cal. 19 .

‘In proceedings supplementary to execution. the Court may appoint
when it has all the parties before it. Hathaway v. Brady, 26 Cal. 586.

, 12. When a receiver should not be appointed.—A Court of equity
has no jurisdiction over corporations for the urpose of restraining their operations or winding up their concerns. Such urt may compel the officers of
the corporation to account for any breach of trust, but the 'uriadiction for
this purpose is over the oiiicers personally, and not over e corporation;

. hence, in this case, it was error in the Court below to ap _int a receiver and

decree a sale of the pro and a settlement of the of the corporation. Neall v. Hill, 16 al. 148.

13. In this case it was error in the Court below to  t a receiver and
decree pdsale of the property and a settlement of the ' of the corporation. . 8

14.. Such decree necessarily results in the dissolution of the corporation,
and would be doin indirectly what the Court has no power to do directly. Id.

15. Where the egations of a bill are general in their nature, and the equities are fully denied y the answer, such a case is not presented as will justify
the appointment of a receiver, the withdrawal of the props from the hands
of one intimately acquainted with all of the affairs of a concern, and
placing it in the hands of another who may not be equally competent to manage

a business. Williamson v. Monroe, 3 Cal. 385.

16. Inatorecloeure suit, the plaintifffhas noright to have a receiver of
rents and profits of the mortgaged property appointed pending the litigation.
Guy v. Ids, 8 Cal. 101.

17. Creditors may attach atter;bl1lmed.—In a case where one partner has nled his bill for a dissolution of the partnership and the appointment
of a receiver, it seems that until a dissolution has been judicially declared.
and a receiver ordered to make a pro rata distribution of the assets among
the creditors, they are not revented from reso ’ to adverse

and thereby gaining a pre erence. Adams v. Hac ti, 7 Cal. 1 ; 
Woods, 8 Id. 52; 9 Id. 24; Naglecv. Lyman, 14 Id. 450.

18. Peas, disbursements, eto.—An order of Court directing a referee “ to
ascertain and report the amount of disbursements and expenses made with
or under the direction and authority of the Court," by a receiver or custodian

ofmoney in the handsof the Court, is too narrow todo himjustioe, and
should be so enlarged as to allow for all reasonable and proper expenses incident to the receivership. Adams v. Haslcell, 6Cal. 476.

19. And this, although the claim is for disbursements, etc., incurredby the
custodhn of thefund, under an ap intmentasassigneeinaproceeding in

"insolvency, which was afterward he to be void. Id.

1). Receivers, or other custodians of money in the hands of a Court who
are receivers except in name, as they are bound to obey the orders of the
Court in their relation to the fund, as well as regards its safe custod as its
return, are co-relatively entitled to the protection of the Court against oss for
disbursements which were necessary and roper, and such as a reasonable
ilidprudeut man, acting as receiver, woul have been justined in expending.

21. Generally.-Where it appears that the partners, parties to the suit
for a dissolution, held a judgment against a third party which was never
reduced to the possession nor under the control of the receiver, the appointment of the receiver would not operate as an assignment or transfer of any
prgperty not soreduoed to possession within a reasonable time. Id.

. Per Tran, J.—A fund in the possession of a receiver can only be distnbuted by the order of the Court in whose custody it is, and no party can,‘
by adverse proceedings, acquire a lien over it. Id.

25. A receiver is appointed on behalf of all the parties who may establish

l§hts in the cause, and the money in his hands is in custodia legis. Adams v.
oods, 8 Cal. 306.

24. The transfer to a receiver by order of Court of the sheets of an insolvent in the suit of a judgment creditor, is not an ' ent absolutely void
under the Insolvent Act of 1852,  to any ecision of the Supreme
Court, but only void against the claim 0 creditors. Naglee v. Lyman, 11

Cal. 450.

25. The pendency of a motion for a new trial does not operate as a stay of
proceedings, so as to de rive the Court of the power of vacating an order
 a receiver e before the trial. Copper Hill M’. 00. v. Spencer at at.

26. The appointment of a receiver rests in the sound discretion of the Court
upon a view of all the facts; one of which is, that the party asking the appointment should make out a prima acie case - and after an ea: parts a pointment has been made, the order may vaca either before or after tlge trial,
upon a roper showing. Id. '

2'7. ere, pending an action, a receiver has been appointed, and on the
trialjudgment of nonsuit is rendered against the rty at whose instance the

receiver was appointed, a motion for a new nds the operation of
the judgment so as to revent it from operating as  e of the action.

unless an order is m e discharging the receiver. Id.

‘ 258i gazing claims.-—8uits in Justices’ Courts.—The Justice may appoint.

TITLE x.

01'' THE TRIAL AND JUDGHENT IN’ CIVIL ACTIONS.

Curran I.—Judgment in general.

Sumo): 144. Judgment, deiinition of.
145. Judgment may be for or against one of the parties.
146. Judgment may be against one party and action proceed on
to the others.

147. The relief= to be awarded to the plaintiff.

148. Action may be dismissed or nonsuit entered.

149. Judgment on the merits, when.

. § 144. Judgment, dejim'tz'on of.
_'_ A judgment is the iiual determination of the rights of the
parties in the action or proceeding, and may be entered in

‘term or vacation.
N. T. Code, § 245 ; Bancroft’: Forms, 564, 561 ; Abb. Forms, 1745, 1765.

. _ 1. Pinaljudgment, what is.——'l‘he correct rule appears to be that the words
._-‘_final judgment” must be understood as applying to all judgments and decrees
which determine the articular cause, and that it is not requisite that such judgm8n;t1ssl1’céuld dually ecide upon the rights which are litigated. Belt v. Davis,
1. . 1' .
' 2. In this case, the whole scope and object of the suit was to vacate the
jxdgment in a former suit, and procure a new trial therein, that being the point
_ issue. The District Court set aside the judgment. and granted a new triaL
E141, that the order setting aside the 'udgment was a dual judgment. Id.
8. The case of Loring v. Illsley (1 al. 28), explained. Id.
4. Every deliuite sentence or decisou of a Court, by which the merits of a
cause are determined, although it be not technically a judgment, or the ro' gs are not capable of being enrolled so as to constitute what is tec niically called a record. is a 'udgment within the meaning of the law, and as such

subject to.the revisory j iction of the Appellate Court. Id.
5. Judgment having been obtained against A.. who was master and one-third
owner of a certain bark, for the sum of $2,000, in the Court of ilrst instance,

‘and his interest having been sold, and purchased by B. :' Held, that a further

judgment, rendered in a subsequent proceeding, ordering that the possession of

the bark should be delivered to B.. was erroneous. Held, also. that such judg.ment is a dual judgment. over which this Court has appellate jurisdiction, under

tlhe  of February 28th, 1850. Loring v. I delay. 1 Cal. 24; see Belt v. Dams,
d. 3 .

6. When the Court has jurisdiction of the questionrand the parties. its jud
meut, whether legal or illegal. proper or improper, is valid and bindin , un

reversed or set aside. Reynolds v. Harris, 14 Cal. 678; Hahn v. Kelly, . T.

A 1867.

7. A judgment dismissing a suit, in which a temporary injunction had been

ted, for want of prosecution, amounts to a determination by the Court that

e injunction was improper! granted, and is in eifect a dual judgment against
the defendant. Dowling v. olaclc. 18 Cal. 625.

8. A dismissal of an action is in edect a dual judgment in favor of the defendant. It is aiinal decision of that action as against all claims made by

it, although it may not be a final determination of the rights of the parties,

am? may hepresented insome other-action. Lease v. Sherwood, 21
1 1.

9. Onasaleof landbyL.andwifetoS., aportionof thepurchasemoney
was paid, andabalance of $14,000was, bythetermsof the deed, tobepaid
when an action, then  one Rico against the vendors to recover a
pardon of the mplperty, s d “ dnall decided ” in favor of the defendeants therein (p ' tide here) “as against a claims made bysaid Rico.” By s
cotern neous agreement it was stipulated that a dismissal of the action of
Rico uld not be considered a dual decision, provided a new suit for the
same subject matter should be commenced by Rice on or before the eleventh
day of April next succeeding the date of the agreement. The action of Rico
was. on motion of the defendants therein, dismissed after the eleventh day of
April, and thereupon L. and wife brought suit for the $14,000. Held, that as
the T ° ulation. about adismissal evidently had reference to one pro»
cured fore e eleventh day of April, a dismissal after that day was. not
elected by the sti ulation, but was to have such force as should result from
$43 other terms 0 the agreement; that under those terms a dismissal at an
h‘me was a final determination of the action, and that plaintifffs were entitl
to recover. Id.

10. A judgment in favor of the plaintid’ ‘net one of several defendants,in an action to set aside a deed as a clou u n the plaintifff ’s title, is an
adjudication that the title is in the plaintifff. arshall v. Shafter, 32 Cal. 176.

11. Although a judgment may be anal with reference to the~Court that ronounced it, and as such be the subject of aagxpeal, yet it is not necessarily Enal
with reference to the property or ' hts ected, so long as it is subject to
appeal and liable to be reversed. ills v. Sherwood, Oc . T. 1867.

12. Order, as contradistinguished from a final judgment, what is.-.
As to what constitutes an order, see Loring v. Illsley, 1 Cal. 27, and Beltiv.
Davis, Id. 136. See dednition of post, § 515.

13. It may be defined to be the judgment or conclusion of the Court upon
an motion or proceeding. It means cases where a Court or Judge grants
a&1native relief, and cases where relief is denied. Gilman 7. Contra Costa
County, 8 Cal. 57.

14;. The edect of an order of Court, general in its terms at the close, is to
be ascertained by a reference to the motion upon which it was made, and
which is recited at its commencement. McKinley v. Tattle, Oct. T. 1867.

15. Judgment, how sntsre¢L—-Where, in a suit to enforce a verhal.contract for the sale of land——the complaint averring a balance of four hundred
dollars to be due defendant when he should make a deed, and describing the
land by its position with reference to adjoining tracts-—-a demurrer was ‘gut in,
and being overruled, and defendant not answering, final judgment, by fault,
was entered for plnintiif—-evidence being taken as to the contract by the
referee-—that plaintifff pay defendant three hundred dollars, the latter to make
a deed of the land, which was described in the judgment by motes and bounds:
Edd, that the judgment is erroneous, both as to the amount adjudged due
defendantand in describing the land by males and bounds; that the 'udgment
should have followed the complaint in both these ‘cola:-s, that the
departure is material and fatal. Holman v. Vallejo, 1 Cal. 498.

16. If the verdict of the jury fails to had the hen, the Court cannot rendene
a judgment essentially different from the verdict, and the judgment so far
Illl be reversed. Walker v. HaussoHz'jo, 1 Cal. 186.

17. Where a man is sued by a fictitious name, and the return of the sheriff
on the summons shows service on the defendant by his proper name, as “John
Doe, alias Westf ,”_ a default being entered, judgment may be rendered

, ' the defendant in his true name, Westfall, without proof that Doe and

estfall are the.same. Curtis v. Herrick, 14 Cal. 117.

18. To authorize an arrest of the defendant upon execution issued in n a
judgment recovered in an action upon contract. the fraud for which are
restissougleitmustbe allegedin the complaint, and be passed 11 n by the
jury, and stated in the judgment. Davis v. Robinson, 10 Cal. 4 1.

19. Atone time. seven shares of stock in_a company arepledged byde-4

fendant to plaintlf as security for a note of defendant then executed At
another time, twenty more shares are ledged as security for another note of
defendant then executed In suit on e notes, and for sale of the stock, etc.,
the judgment was for the amount of the notes, and directed a sale of all the
shares of stock and an application of the proceeds to the payment of the
judgment. Held, that the ju ent was wrong so far as it ordered a sale of
the stock in gross, and an a cation of the proceeds to the entire indebtedness. Malconcy v. Caperton, 5 Cal. 313.

20. Where an action is brought by one of several persons, claiming title
fromacommonsource, onhisownbehalf, and in behalfof all others interested in the same manner as himself, to set aside a deed executed to others
by the same grantor under whom plaintid’ claims, on the ground of fraud,
the parties named in the com laint, for whose benedt the action is broght,
are entitled to the benefit of &e decree declaring the deed fraudulent. artbut v. Butenop, 27 Cal. 64.

21. Judgment should be entered at once. wheu.—Where there is no
uestion as to the proper judgment to be entered on a verdict, the ju nt
ould be entered at once, without waiting for a motion for new trial.
22 VA 8’]3Ca‘iiu1' oceedings d th dgm full tectsth
. suspension 0 r ' un er e ‘u ent y pro e
losing party from all loss ti; injury, If from any cguse the verdict be set aside
or the Judgment vacated. Id.

23. Judgments entered in vacation.——Where the Supreme Court reverses
the ju ent of a District Court, and directs the entry of a final judgmeng
such ju ent can be entered b the Clerk of the District Court in vacation.
Mcllillan v. Richards, 12 Cal. .

24. In an action tried by the Court without a j , judgment may be entered by the clerk in vacation u n the nling by the udge of his findings and
decision. People v. Jones, 20  50.

25. If the judgment has been pronounced b the Court, drawn u in writing
in the form intended to be entered, signed y the Judge, and ed with the
clerk before the adjournment of the term, it has become the judgment of the
Court of the term at which it was rendered, and the clerk may perform the
ministerial act of entering it in the Judgment Book in vacation, without
further direction. Casement v. Rtnggold, 28 Cal. 335.

26. meotment judgment, extent and eieot of.—In an action of ejectment to recover possession of a tract of land, where the defendant
failed to appear, and the case was su mitted to the Court, who found that
plaintifff had title to the whole tract, and that the defendant was in possession
of a part—-sixty or seventy acres—of the tract without right: Held, that it
was proper for the Court to enter jud ent for the plaintiff for the possession
of the whole tract. Vallejo v. Fhy, 1 Cal. 377.

27. Under our system, the jud ent in ejectment is only conclusive of two
points: the right of possession o the plaintifff, and the occupation of the deendant at the commencement of the suit. Yotmt v. Howell, 14 Cal. 465.

28. It is otherwise at the common law; there, the proof of title being held

ztzlictlyltga the date of the demise laid, the judgment was conclusive of such
e. .

29. In suit against several defendants known as “ Table Mountain Water
Company,” for possession of a ditch. the verdict was: “ We find for the
plaintifff and against L."—one of the defendants. Ju ent was entered
that defendant surrender possession of the ditch to plain ' , and that plaintid
recover of L., “one of said defendants, the sum of —, his costs,” etc.
Held, that there is no error in the jud ent; that it must be construed by
the verdict, which is confined to plaintigltfnd L. Treat v. Iafarge, 15 Cal. 41.

30. A judgment in favor of ' till‘, even on the title, is conclusive, at
most, of (gm title of plaintid’ o y, and not of his grantor. Grady v. Early,
18 Cal. 1 . s

81. In ejectment inst several defendants occupying diRe1-ent portions of
the property sued or, several judgments may be entered and at diferent

thnes;andthis,whethertaig:;ih-ita.lulo;'on dndingsorvcrdicts, orou
ea .

Innlinglby the Court, or d Lil: v. Stoclcdals, 18 Cal. 219.

32. are an amended complaint in ejectment sets up title acquired after
the commencement of the suit, and a judgment by default is regularly entered,
the ’ is valid. Id.

33. o a complaint in ejectment for a fifty-vara lot, the answer admitted the
posseaion of defendants to the extent of one third, “ more or less,” and the
witnesses who testified upon the subject stated that th (defendants) were “ on
be lot-—a part of it,” without showing of what p cular part they were in
pcaaion. The judgment was for the recovery of the whole lot, with damages for its detention, and, on appeal, it was assigned as error that the evidence
warranted a recovery of only a portion of the lot with proportional damages:
Held.  the pleadings and proofs the judgment was proper. Guy v.

34. Under our Practice Act, if it appear that the plaintin‘, in ejectment, had a
right to recover at the commencement of the suit, but that his right has terminated during its ndeucy, he cannot recover the possession but only his damages. Moore v. we, 22 Cal. 513.

35. The plaintifff, in ejectmsnt, to recover an undivided interest in land, may
have a recovery ofa less undivided interest than that sued for. Halsey v. Martin, 22 Cal. 645.

36. When several rsons, whose possessions are not joint, but separate, are
joined as defendants an action to recover land, and no demand is made at the
close of the trial for separate verdicts, and no objection or exception is taken to
the verdict, on that ground, in time to aiford an opportunity to correct it, the
defendant cannot afterwards object to a joint verdict and judgment. Hicks v.
Gokman at al., 25 Cal. 145.

37. In an action of ejectment brought by E. against J. and L. and L., the
Court found as a fact, that defendants had at all times since the ouster
withheld the possession of the premises from the plaintid, and vs judgment
for plaintiff against the defendants jointly for damages duri e whole time.
The evidence showed that defendant J. ad been in the exc usive possession
of one hundred and twenty acres of the five hundred acres sued for, and had
not been in possession during the whole time for which the damages were computed. The Court was not requested to distinguish in its findings from that
made against L. and L. Held, that plaintiff was entitled to judgment against
the defendants jointly. Ellis v. Jeans, 26 Cal. 275.

38. If, in an action ' several defendants, sued jointly to recover the
:’.."'s'.“ .{....°".1°‘..,......‘ W“ °.m1..‘- “’..‘.’21°.i‘.°"?“°“‘if;‘ia2'.p....i°“’ in 1““€iL§?‘€£' $1"; “.3133
, e e e en
are severally in possession of separagry of landysued for, and if, on
s to the Supreme Court, that Court directs judgment to be entered in
Court below “ for the plaintiff upon the special dn  for the premises
in controversy, pursuant to the prayer of the complaint, ’ a joint judgment
rendered in the Court below upon tiling the remittitur there against all or
ap£rtIo‘f thech defendants, is tarroncaous. alLecse v. Olgrtlcil, 28 Cal.  t, th
. su case,notwistaning eentryo ejoint' on be
plaintifff may apply for and have a several judgment against the dgfendants. Id.
40. In such case, also, the entry of aseveral judgment against part of the
defendants is not a discontinuance of the action nor an abandonment of the
suns by the plaintifff as to the others, nor does it preclude him from afterward moving for and having a several ' ent against a defendant not included in the nrst several judgment. d.

41. Judgment against an lnfant.—-It is at least questionable whether,
under our system of practice, an infant is in any case or under any circumstances, entitled to have a day ‘van in the judgmentto show a cause against
it. Joyce v. McAvoy, 31 Cal. 4
- 42. An infant defendant is as much bound by a decree in equityas a person
of full age, and will not be permitted to di ts it except upon the same
as an adult might have disputed it, sufsgu as fraud, collusion, or error.
merely erroneous itis not void, ut may becorrected on appeal. If fraudulent, or obtained by collusion it must be attacked in a-directprooeeding, and
4302,83 edoo y‘ Id; infant here the Go 

. ju entinequityagains an w int ' ' etion,which . notgive theinfantada afterarriviugatzgetoshowoausi

against it, is not void and cannot be attac ed collaterally. . '

44. Judgment against executors and administrators.—-A judgment
against an executor for a demand against the testator, should direct that the
gaamesbg paid in due course of administration. ' Racouillat v. Sanswaia, 32

45. In an action against an administrator u n a rejected claim, the judgment should drst ascertain the amount due, an adjudge the same to be a valid
claim  the estate, and then provide that the same be paid by the defendant in the due course of administration. No execution, can be awarded.
Bios v. Inslceep, Oct. '1‘. 1867.

46. Judgment against married woman.-—A judgment may be rendered
against a married woman for costs in an action brought by her as sole plainas, concerning her separate roperty, and when so rendered an execution in
the usual form may be issu on the same, and her separate property sold by
the sherif, and the purchases at the sherifs sale, upon recei of the
we deed, acquires a valid title thereto. Leonard v.,To , 26 Cal.‘

47. Judgment against husband and wife.--In suit f at husband and
wife for services rendered by laintitf to the wife before or marriage, judgment ma ‘ be entered against th defendants, with a direction that it be enforced o y against the separate prope of the wife and the common prop-,_

erty of both. Van Marenv. Johnson, Cal. 308.

48. When it in and is not, a bar.—A judgment upon demurrer is not always a bar to a subsequent action. It is so only where it determines the
merits of the case. Robinson v. Howard,V5 Cal. 428.

49. Where the answer shows that the demurrer was to the validity of the
contract which gave rise to the claim, and this averment is found to be true,
as alle by the Judge at nisi prius, upon inspectiiy the record of the case,
thggu ent upon demurrer is a bar to the amt. I .

. A judgment of insolvency, where the Court had jurisdiction, if not re1(r}e‘1'lse§i31on appeal, is conclusive between the parties. Kohlman v. Wright, 0

51. The ° dgment of a Gourt of competent jurisdiction directly upon,
the point ii‘, as a lea, as bar, and as. evidence, conclusive between the.
gag?! pggies, upon samematter directly, in another Oourt. Lovev. Waltz,

52. A plea of a former suit pen ' is no bar to an action, where thecom-.
plaint in the former suit is so do ective that aaéjudgment rendered thereon
would be a nullity. Reynolds v. Harris, 9 Cal. 3 .

53. Where there is a misdescriptionof a note, and a want of specincation.
ofthe name of the real owner, or of any averment that his name is unknown,
in the schedule of an insolvent, the p m insolvency are no bar to a_
suit on the note, even if the insolvent did not ow that the plaintifff was the
real creditor. Judson v. Ahoill, 9 Cal. 477. '

54. To plead a former judgment in bar, it must appear, not. only that it was.

, 9 Cal. 607.

Egg: the same cause of action, butbetweenthesame parties. Uhlfelderv. _

. When a de£endant,pleads_another suit pending between the same parties,
and for the same cause of action, and it appears that no summons was ever‘
issued upon the complaint, and that there was no voluntary appearance on
the part of the defendant in such suit: Held, that there was no suit pending.
Weaver v. C _ , 10 Cal. 233.

56. Plain ' brought an action of replevin against the defendants to recover
certain property, and obtained a judgment for its restitution and for»
its illegation detention. Defendants paid the damages, but the pro was;
not restored.  then brought an action of trover to recover e value.

Defendnh plead the former recovery as-abar. Held, that the‘-judgmentin
xqievin did not constitute a'bar to the action of trover, the Judgment in
W  satisfied. Niclaarhslcnvn v. («ht 8tagI:_C'o., 10 Cal. 520.
.Anaction ught anagentin ' ownname, orstres£ass,in
' a-ting coinbzrom the possession of the agent, in whic action
thejnryfonnd that the coin belonged to theprincipal, andgave onlynominal
Jsnobsrtosnactionbytheprincipal forsuchooin. Picov. Web. A discharge in insolvency of 'a debt is equally a disc of a judgment

on that debt, and the costs, rendered between the time cilfaaing the tition
and schedule, and the time_ of dual ' . Imlay v. Carpsntier, 14 al. 175.
59. To plead a former judgment in bar, t must appear, not on! that it wu
upon thesame action, but between the same parties. Chase v. 9 Cal.

36.

60. ‘In a chanoery case, when all the proofs are in, and the case fully before
the lowa and the ap llate Court, the judgment of the latter is conclusive,
then it-panes upon merits of the controversy so ted; and on the
reversal of the decree below, that court can talks no fu er proceegiings,nunless
authorized by the appellate Court, except me _as are necessary-to ve c act to
in jadgmeat. The whole matter is us adjudicate. Scale v. Dawes, 14 Cal. 249.

'61. If an action be brought to recover ‘accession of a lot of personal property,
wrongfully taken and detained, and if e wrongful taking was one continuous
and tortious act, a verdict and judgment, in that action, will be a bar to a subent suit for the remainder of the pro erty. Hen-iter v. Porter, 23 Cal. 385.

2 . Where, in an action at law, the efendants in their answer set up and
claim a set or to plaintifff's demand, and, on the trial of the action, the record
shows that the Court excluded all evidence of the demand sought to be set of,
and gave judgment for plaintifff, the judgment in the action at law cannot be
Eleaded, as an estoppel in an action afterwards brou ht b the defendants in a

of equity to enforce the set oif. Hobbs v. Do , 23 al. 596.

63. A judgment entered in an action to recover e possession of real estate,
under our system of pleading and practice, is, as to all matters ut in issue and
aged on in the action, conclusive between the parties and the r privies, and a

in another action between the arties or their privies when the same matters

are directly in issue. Caperton v. chmidt, 26 Cal. 490.

64. The bar of a judgment and verdict, in an action to recover the possession
of real estate, is limited to the rights of the parties as theyexlsted at the time
when it was rendered, and neither the parties nor their privies are recluded
by the same from showing, in a subsequent action, that their rights ave been
vaived 23 extinguished at a period after the rendition of the verdict and judgment. .

65. A judgment in favor of the plaintifff, in an action of ejectment, does not
estop the defendant from maintaining an action for the specidc performance of a
contract, made b the plaintifff before the commencement of the action of ejectment, to convey t e same land to the defendant; provided, the equitable defense
ale not set up in the answer and passed on by the Court. Hough v. Waters, 30

. 309.

66. A judgment for plaintifff, in an action to quiet title, is a bar to subsequent
ii 2 tion on the same subject matter. Reed v. Oalderwood, 32 Cal. 109.

. If two Mexican grants of land, made to diferent persons, are condrmed

Ind surveyed so as to overlap each other in art, and the owner of one becomes a party to the edmgs relating to e conilrmation and survey of
the other, he is be by the roceedings and estopped from aiterwards denying that this grant was proper y located. Sample v. Wright, 32 Cal. 659.

68. Judgment, when may, or not, be attacked collated-ally»—See Hahn
‘Y. Kedyetat, Oct. '1‘. l867.—Al ' case.—-A judgment by default, when
summons has been served on defendan cannot be attacked collaterally for a
has irregularity of service, or for a defective return. The defendant should

his rights by appeal from the judgment. Dorente v. Sulrvaa, 7 Cal. 279.
A eertidcate of exemplincation of a judgment rendeiod in another
whenattestedbytheblerkunder the seal of the Court, andwhenthe

Illidingiudgeoftheoourtcertitlestothatatteststionasindueformof

$06
09.
‘N6.

law, is sulllcient under the Act of Congress of May 26th, 1790, to sustain an
action upon the judgment in another State. Thompson v. Haarow, 1 Cal. 488;
Park v. Williams, 7 Cal. 249.

70. Where several persons were sued as members of a joint stock company,
and the suit was discontinued as to B., one of the defendants, and judgment
was taken ‘net all the others, upon which execution was su uently
issued,and epro ofoneM.,whowasnotapa1-tytothe suit, ento
satisfy the same: , that M. cannot, by a bill in equity against the plaintiff in the judgient, set it aside upon the ground that the discontinuance of
the suit as to . was a discontinuance as to all of the defendants. The
raaztgnt cannot be attacked in this collateral manner. Ma:-ldey v. Rind, 1
t 71. The recital in a decree “ that defendants had been regularlyservedwith
process, or had waived service by their acknowledgment, ‘is sunlcient evience that the requisite proof was produced. In the absence of all evidence on this int. the presumption would be in favor of the jurisdiction of
the Court, an of the regularity of its roceedings; and, for the want of such
evidence, the decree cannot be impeac ed in a collateral action. Aida-son v.
B6520": time‘ 9 Cd’ 311»: peach. ed ml 11 beca tsred
. ecree cannot im co tera y use en prematurely.
The remedy is by a direct proceeding in the action. Id.

73. Where a judgment was rendered by confession in open Court, upon an
allegation of indebtedness and appearance of the parties, whatever errors ina
tervened, they cannot, at the instance of one not a party to the ju ent, be
invoked to set aside or show the judgment a nullity. Cloud v. I Dorado
County, 12 Cal. 128. There is a very decided distinction between want of
'ug;sldi§tiion aud irregularity in procuring jurisdiction. Whitwell v Ba:-bier,

74. A judgment can be attacked in any form, directly or collaterally, for

want of jurisdiction, but only  a direct proceeding against the judgment, in

the Court which rendered it, or in an appellate Court, upon appeal from the ~

judgment, when there is an irregularity in procuring jurisdiction. Id.

7 . The true test in such cases is whether the omission complained of is of
the substance of the act uired to be performed. If of the substance, then
the ju ent is a nullity; ’ of form, only an irregularity. Id. See Hahn v.
Kell , at. T. 1867.

7 A personal judgment of a Court of general jurisdiction is invalid for
the purpose of  any rights under it, when it appears amrmatively
upon the face of e record that the Court had acquired no jurisdiction over
thg zpegon ofd the defendant. by ha

. a ‘u gment is renounced a Court ving ' nsd1' 'ction, no matter
how  it may bela’, it must stand until set asideJcilr reversed on appeal;
but when entered by a mere  officer without authority of law, it is
vgigh gtearns v. Aguirre, 7 Cal. 448. Partially overruled in Lewis v. 0larIa'n,
1 . 99. ~

78. The Board of Supervisors of a county is a special tribunal with mixed

were, administrative, judicial and legislative, and jurisdicion over roads,

erries and brid es,1i1£:lgiven to it by statute. Its ' dgments and orders cannot
be attacked co to y, an more than ‘the ju ents of Courm of record.
Waugh v. Chancey, 13 Cal. 2.

79. A decree of the Probate Court, ordering a claim to be paid, rendered on
petition of the administrator. and without objection by him, is dual and conclusive, and cannot be assailed collaterally nor directly, on the und that it
was rendered on in insumcient evidence. Estate of Oook, 14 C . 130; State v.
.McGlynn, 20 Id. 233.

80. In suit in the District Court, on a bond given in the Court of Sessions
for the a co there of a party indicted for misdemeanor—the Court of
Sessions ving declared the bond forfeited for non-appear-ance—the suredes
cannot defend on the und that the judgment of forfeiture was erroneous.
That judgment cannot thus revised. People v. Wol,)', 16 Cal. 385.

81. The judgment of the Sn e Court, being conclusive so long as it
stands,cannotbeattacked terallxonthegroundthatpardestoitdid

npt prosecute the appeal, but must be set aside, if at all, by a direct proceed it for fraud. Bostic v. Love, 16 Cal. 72.
judgment void for want of personal  is not cured by the

gearaneeofthepartyforthepurposeofvacatuigit. Grayv.Howes,80al.

83. If it ap by the record, or otherwise, that the Court never had jurisdiction over e person of the defendant, the judgment will be pronounced a
nuiity, whether it comes directly or collaterall in issue, and a sale of property under it will be void also. HoMinn v. W 27 Cal. 309.

84. If a defendant is served with process, a judgment by default againd
laioim néotzvoid, though he is sued by a wrong name. Welch v. Kirkpatrick,

. 0 .

85. lf a coin laint in an action against a companybyitsoom yname
states substantiill the conditions mentioned in the six hundr and fiftysixth section of e Practice Act, and the sheriff returns that he has served
the summons on one of the members of the company, and judgment by
default is entered up against the company by its name, to be enforced '
the joint property of the members, that e judgment is not void, but may be
enforced y execution against the company's property. Id.

86. Such judgment is not a jmglment against the person served with process, but against the company. _. _

87. Query. If in a judgment against a company name under the six hundred
and ufty-sixth section of the Practice Act, there is an entire absence of any statement showing the existence of the conditions named in the section, and judgment is rendered against the company by default, is the 'udgment void or are
these  om matters to be pleaded in abatement, an if not thus pleaded,
waiv

88. A judgment entered by the clerk upon default for a sum greater than is
demanded in the prayer of the complaint and ‘specified in the summons, is
not void, but is simply erroneous, and ma be enforced until modified on
motion or on appeal. Bond v. Pacheco, 30 al. 630.

89. In an action at law upon a judgment of a Court of general jurisdiction,
the defendant, as a matter of defense at law, cannot show that the judgment
was fraudulently obtained, exce t b an examination of the record itself.
Car-pcntier v. City of Oaldand, 30 al. 39.

90. A judgment in equity against an infant, where the Court has jurisdiction, which does not give the infant a day after arriving at c to show cause

against it, is not void, and cannot be attacked collaterally. co v. M021 ,
91 Cal. 273. 0y my

91. Void judgment.—A personal judgment of a Court of general jurisdiction is invalid for the purpose of acquiring an rights under it, when it
appearsamrmativelyu nthefaceoftherecord tthecourthad uired
no jurisdiction over e person of the defendant. H/Viitweu v. ier, 7
Cal. 64.

92. There is, however, a very decided distinction between want of jurisdiction and irregularity in tpzocunng jurisdiction. Id.

93. In the one case, judgment can be attacked in any form, directly or
collaterally; in the other, only by a direct proceeding against the j ent in
the Coint wlpézh rendered it, or in an appellate Court upon appeal rom the
judgm’ ent. .

94. The true test is, whether the omission be of the form or of the substance
of the act required to be performed. Id.

95. A summons was served by a depu sheriff and returned with the following ' tures to the return: “E ‘j T. Cole, D. 8.” Judgmentwas
rendered E; default. Held, that the 'udgment was null and void, for want of
jurisdiction. Rowley v. Howard, 23 al. 401.

96. A judgment entered to the Clerk by default, where there has been no

gflvicegof summons or appearance, is utterly void. Glidden v. Pacloard, 28
. 64 .

97. When the Clerk has authority to enter judgment out of Court by default, but in the exercise of his authority makes a mistake as to the amount,
the judgment is not void, but erroneous; ; but where he enters a kind of

judgment which he has no authority to enterwithout the direction of the
Court, the 'udgment thus entered is void. Bond v. Pacheco, 30 Cal. 680.
_98. A j ent absolutely void upon its face may be attacked an hero

3.015109% or collaterally, either by parties or strangers. Forbesv. yde, 31

99.Afl:eraPPOa1. the Courtbelowloses control over-the judgment.—-Where a judgment is rendered, and an appeal taken to this Court, the
Court below loses control over the judgment, and an order amending the
judgment is erroneous. Bryan v. Berry, 8 Cal. 135.

100. Presumptions in favor of Courts of general jurisdiction, etc.—The presumption in favor of a judgment of a Court of general jurisdiction
'is overthrown, when the record of the entire case discloses a want of 
-tiocn. Gray v. Hawes, 8 Cal. 569. .

101. The appellate Court will cprestrme in favor of the judgment of ‘the
Court below, unless the record early show error. Thom v. Mon-now, 2
Cal. 100; Kilburn v. Ritchie, 2 Id. 148; White v. Abernathg, Id. 426; Johnson
 Bovcda, 5 Id. 151; Gmoeu v. Henderson, 7 Id. 29 ;Ne1sonv.Lemmo-n,

102. Jurisdiction will erallybe presumed in the case of an rior Courts;
but if the want of ‘juri ction ap are on the face of the reco of the judgment of a superior Court, the ju%ient is void, and it ma be attacked in at
collateral pr ' . Forbes v. yde, 31 Cal. 3-12. ed in Balm v.
Kelly, Oct. T., a lea ' case.

_ 103. A arty against whom a judgment has been rendered, bya Court of general jur ction, will be presumed to have been made aparty to the suit insome
of the wa s provided by law, unless the contrary appears amrmatively by the

record. harp v. Daugney, Oct. '1‘. 1867.

'1 04. Effect of reversal of judgment.-Where an execution on a judgment
‘for the recover of money is not stayed by the undertaking on appeal, required
by statute for at purpose,a sale may be made on the execution, and the rights
of purchasers are in no respect affected by the subsequent reversal of the judgment. Farmer v. Rogers, 10 Cal. 335.

105. If, on sale under judgment, the plaintiff or his assignee buys in the property, he must restore it to the defendant on reversal of the judgment; otherxisg, pesto a stranger, a bona fide purchaser without notice. Reynolds v. Harris,

a . 80.

106. Where a party to a judgment has obtained any advantage through the
judgment, he must restore that advantage to the other party, if the judgment be
afterward reversed. Id.

107. A judgment unreversed and not suspended may be enforced, but when
reversed it is as if never rendered; and money collected by authority of it may,
-as a general rule, be recovered back. Raun v. Reynolds, 18 Cal. 275.

108. Where the judgment of the a pellate Court directs the Court below
what judgment to render, a new trial n the Court below is not -authorized, and
a judgment rendered upon sucha new trial is null and void. Argenti v. The
City of gun Francisco, 30 Cal. 458; see further, § 345, post; title, “Eject: of

109. Identity of jud5ments.—A judgment was obtained , inst one John
P. Maurow, in the city of New York, and an action was broug t upon a 'ndgment against one John P. Manrow, in the city of San Francisco; the idea of
the person was held to be resumed. Thompson v. Manrmn, 1 Cal. 428. See
People v. Thompson, 28 Ca 218, and authorities their cited.]

110. Attorney has no lien on a judgment.—The attorney has no lieu upon

a judgment recovered by him in favor of his client for a quantum meruit com‘pensation for his services; such lien extends only to costs given by statute. Ea:

part: Kyle, 1 ‘Cal. 332; Hanqield v. Dot-land, 2 Id. 509; Russell v. Conway, 11
d. 103.

111. ‘Whenequltyvvi1l.andwil1not,interfere.—-Seeantc§1l2,note No.54.
112.ll!eotot'reol&inajtId¢IIIent.-—Therecitalsin«aseveraljudgment agmnst one of a number of defendants, that inafcrmerju entin
the same action the name of this defendant was stricken out on p ' er’mcticn, is prima acie evidence only of the fact, and maéalie contradicted by.
die recitals in sai former 'udgment. Leeee v. Clark, 28 . 33.

113. The recital in a judgment that a defendant, against whom it is
entered. appeared in the action, is prima acie evidence only of the fact. Id.
Bee Hahn nnfm, Oct. T. 1867.

114. The ' of service of summons in a ju ent is conclusive of the
fact in a collateral proceeding. Sharp v. Lumber, an. T. 1868. See further
Hahv. Kelly, Oct. T..1867.

115. As between pardes and prlvies.—-A judgment is cf no force, except
between the parties and rivies. Beclcett v. Selover, 7 Cal. 228.

116. A judgment reccr is only conclusive between parties and their privies,
er in some cases for specific purposes. Davidson v. Dallas, 8 Cal. 227.

11 . A purchaser of land, subsequent to a suit brought against his vendors
to quiet title, and to a notice of lie pendens filed in the county recorder's office,
is s merelsvrgzlntegr, who takes subject to any decree in the suit. Gregory v:
Haynes, . 4 4.

118. One in possession of land, who is neither a party nor privy to a judgment for the recovery of possession of it, is neither affected by the judgment,
as an instrument of evidence, nor can he be dispossessed by virtue of a writ
issued upon it. Le Roy v. Rogers, 30 Cal. 229.

119. Alteration without notice.-—A.n alteration of a judgment by the
Court, without notice, so, as to include a party not served with process, if not
void, is voidable, at the election of the rty. Chester v. Miller, 13 Cal. 561.

120. Where the Court makes an or requiring plaintii to appear at a
certain time, and show cause why a judgment in his favor should not be set
aside, and it does not appear that a copy of the order was served on plainiif
or his attorney, or that any notice was given of the time at which the matter
was to be heard, it is error for the Court to set aside the 'udgment, and its
oida to that effect will be reversed on appeal. Vallejo v. , 16 Cal. 161.

121. Power ofthe court over judgments, setting aside, opening do-:
halts. etc.-—-Bee § 68, ante, note, Nos. 32, 49, et seq.

§ 145. Judgment may be for or against one of the parties.

Judgment may be given for or against one or more of several plaintifffs, and for or against one or more of several defendants; and it may, when the justice of the case requires
it, determine the ultimate rights of the parties on each side,
as between themselves. '

N. Y. Code, § 274. See ante§ 32. Abb. Forms, 1750-1752.

1. Where two persons are sued jointly upon a joint contract, judgment may
be rendered in favor of the plaintifff against one of the defendants and in favor
ofone cf the defendants against the plaintiii‘. Thus where A. sued B. and C., an

era. and the misjoinder was not set up in the answer, and the plaintifffs

d was proved against B., but not against C., and verdict and judgment

were given in favor of the plaintifff against B., and in favor of 0. against the
plaint if, on appeal the judgment was amrined. Rowe v. Chandler, 1 Cal. 167.
. 2. Where it is clear that two or more deftndants are not liable jointly, a joint’
gment inst both cannot be sustained, although each may he severally liale; so hel in an action by a lessor against two sub-tenants of his lessee, when
it appeared that the sub—tenants did not occupy any portion of the premises
J0intl . Pierce v. Minturn, 1 Cal. 470. ~

3. some of the defendants, partners, are not served with process, the
Pllhtil may proceed against those served. Ingraham v. Gildemeester, 2 Cal. 88.

4. A covenant not to sue, made tca portion only of joint debtors, does not
release any of them. Mattlwy v. Golly, 4 Cal. 64.

5: In an action against defendants jointly indebted, where on! one is served,
a“s'everal judgment maybe entered against him. Hirscmeld v. Iciia, 6 Cal.
 In an action bmught jointly against two defendants, on a joint and aev-’
Oral obligation, the‘ entry of dual judgment on dethnlt s inst one of the defendaaisisaldisoharge of the omer. Stsar-as v. Aguirre, 6 al. 182. Thlscase has

been artlally overruled in Lewis v. Olarlcin. 18 Id. 399.

7. n all cases of joint and several contracts, the plaintil may elect whether
Iewilllsue the-defendants severall or join ; havm elected to treat his demand as joint for the purpose of e action, e must e governed by the same
rules which would have applied if his contract originally had been joint. and
not joint and several ; and it is clearly error to enter several judgments against
the defendant. Id.

8. Where two defendants are jointly sued, and service had on both, the clerk
of the Court has no authorit to enter judgment by default against one ; and his
not in so doing is without so or of law and void, and may be disregarded or set
aside. Steam: v. Aguirre. 7 Cal. 449.

9‘. Where the plaintifff establishes his right to recover against both defendants, judgment should be entered ‘nut them. Id.

10. Where the obligors in ashe ’s bond bind themselves, 'ointly and severally in specific sums deslgnated.they may all be joined in e same action.
but separate judgments are required. People v. Edwards. 9 Cal. 286.

11. A judgment against one or more joint uarantors of a note bars the action againstthe others. When the contract is joint, and not joint and save
gisentirecause of aetionis merged in the judgment. Brady v. Reynolds, 1

. 31. '

12. Equity has jurisdiction to vacate a judgment, fraudulently altered. so as
toinelude aidefeudant» not served with process and not» originally included in
He judgment. Uhedsr v. Miller, 13 Cal.568.

13. Where, in an action againstdefendants jointly and not‘ severally liable,‘
Ciportion onl of them are served with process, the clerk cannot, on the application‘ of p aintitl‘, enter judgment upon default against 53:-ties served only.

judglmlent so entered is void. Kelley v. Austin, 17 Cal. -.

4. e proper course in such case is, to enter judgment against all the
defendants, but so as to be enforced against the joint property of all and the
so to property of those served. A Id.

5. Where three persons are sued on a romissory note ‘ven by one of the
parties-in the name of all as era, the evidence f ' to show the partnership, or the anthem of e y making the note to bind all, and one of
the parties-is nonsni and jngient taken against the other two: Held,that there is no error in such ju ent. Stoddard v. Van Dyke, 12 Cal. 438.

16. In suit, on an account against “ Randall & Ines.” partners, the former
only-beingserved with pmcess, ajoint ju entwas rendered ' stlgh:
Held, $9 ggvdgment is void as against e party not served. nas v. snl7. Plaintid sells goods to C. on his individual account. Subsequsntl ,
C. directs laintid to charge the goods to the joint account of C. and .,
which is one. Plaintid sues C. and J. 'ointly. Proven that 0. had no
authori to bind J. Held, that, although . is not liable, judgment may be
render against 0.; that our Practice Act (See. 145) has modified the common law rule; that, in suit against several joint debtors, plaintifff must recover
against all or none—so far, at least, as to permit judgment against a portion

the defendants wherever the contract ux-ports on its face to be the contract
of all the ‘es sued, and it turns out proof that a portion only are liable.
Lewis v. kin, 18 Cal. 399.

18. In suit against two on a joint assessment for taxes, jud ent may be
rendered ‘net one onl of the defendants, if the other not liable.
People v‘. rlsbie, 18 Gal. .

19. The common law rule, that where defendants are sued on a joint
 recovery must be had against all or none, modified by our Practice
E20. Quay : whether’ the rule is entirely abrogated. New York cases cited.

‘war

21. A judgment in an action against the sureties on an" omcial bond, for a’
defslcstion of the principal, should first ii: the amount of the defalcation amf

then proceed with a separate judgment ' t each ofthe sureties- for the full
mount for which he made himself liab e in the bond, and costs, and then.
than vim a proviso, that each judgment shall be satisfied by the collection or,
6‘ t of the amount of the defalcation, and costs. People v. Rooney, 
3?. Where an action is brought by one of several persons, claiming cue‘
from a common source, on his own behalf and in behalf of all others intereded in the same manner as himself, to set aside a deed executed to others"
by the same tor under whom plaintiff claims, on the ground of fraud. the
parties nam in the com laint, for whose benefit the action is brought, areeutitled tomtlgadbegfht of t e decree declaring the deed fraudulent. Hurlburt v.
23. Where a decision is made in a suit in equity upon any particular
subject matter, the rights of  m whose interests are immediately
connected with that decision, , afected by it, should be provided for.
1EPh'erson v. Parlcer, 30 Cal. 455. ‘

§ 146. Judgment may be against one party and action proceed:
as to others.

In an action against several defendants, the Court may‘, in‘
its discretion, render judgment against one or more of them,
leaving the action to proceed’ against the others, whenever
sseveral judgment is proper.

Beeaste, § 145,. 32; N. Y. Code, gin.

§ 147. The relief to be awarded ‘to the phintify

The relief granted to the plaintifff, if there be no answer;
shall not exceed that which he shall: have demanded in his
complaint; but in any other case, the Court may grant him”
any relief consistent with the case made by the complaint,
and embraced within the issue. ‘

 ltaki bydfaul hr be ‘ ‘
. ere’ entis en e t,no re ‘e can 'venbe ond .
demanded iiln the com laint. Raun v. Reynolds, 11 Cal. 19.9 I am‘
3- A judgment  efeult for an‘ amount exc’ee’ding~ that asked forth the
prayer of e complaint is erroneous.  v. Rogers, 20 Cal. 91. g _

3. Where the complaint prayed judgment for a‘ certaiii amount allegeifto
begins as ‘i ' al and interest of the note sued on, and .that the judgment‘
bears interest’ a a certain rate, and judgment’ by defatailtnwas subsequently‘
minted for the amount, with interest from the date of ' g‘ the com lsint:
34¢ that the judgment was erroneous in awarding, interest from the te of,
511113 the complaint ‘of the  of itaenti-‘y’. Id. ,
tlécgtmjpdhgzzeiilt rendered in_ an sctitinfon _contrsot_ in favor of plaintifff an

one, after striking on or irregulari an answer reviou .
ilcd by defendant, must be considered as a judgmenttzy default, anxd is there!‘
::¢mersroneou:s (iii!-1end;ere‘i;1 ‘tinge a‘ tgrkeater ainigunt thanR that (1iva11i.ic6li28the,sum..

teted_ , jll en co en. imer v. n, g . _
_ 5- If in‘ an action on a promissory note a trial is haglf the Courtniay render‘
Edgmeut for the amount of the note and interest, and make the ju ens,
at the same rate of interest as the‘ contract, although the com ' only
Pflrifor judgment tortheface ofthe note. 1{cC'o'mbv...Rced. £8 s}. 289.
5- I! no answer is nled, judgment may be rendered for the principal, and in-‘

-I

terest added thereto, although the complaint only prays for judgment for the
rincipal. This is not a case by default. Oassacta v. Iuznix. Ins. 00., 28 Cal.

28.

7. In a judgment, by default. to foreclose a mo , it is improper to include
counsel fees, the amount paid for taxes, to ther w th the interest thereon, if
such relief was not demanded in the compla nt. Jonson v. Smith, Jan. 1‘. 1866.

8. It is error, where a judgment b default exceeds the relief demanded in
the complaint. Parrott v. Den, Oct. . 1867.

9. If Judgment is rendered in favor of plaintid, by default, the Court ‘cannot
grant any greater relief than is demanded in the prayer of the complaint and
specided in the summons. Lamping it 00. v. Hyatt at al., 27 Cal. 102.

10. If the complaint, on a romisso note, prays for judgment for a sum certain, which sum is the princ pal and terest due when the complaint is filed,
judgment by default should not include interest accruing after the complaint is

filed. Id.

11. If the prayer for judgment asks for interest to accrue after the complaint
is filed, and neither the pra er or summons mention the rate of interest, the
clerk should not render judgment for a rate greater than ten per cent. per
annum. Id. _

12. If the complaint does not pray for a gold coin judgment, and the summons does not say that judgment will be taken for gold coin, the clerk
should not on default render a gold coin judgment. Id.

13. Judgment by default, in a suit on a note drawing interest at more than
ten per cent. per annum, should not direct that the judgment bear interest at

the agreed rate, unless the complaint pr? that the judgment bear interest at_

the rate named in the note. Gautier v. nglish, 29 Cal. 165.
14. A 'ndgment entered b the clerk upon default, for a sum greater than

is deman ed mthe rayer o the complaint, and specided in the summons, is
not void but is simp E erroneous, and may be enforced until modified on motion or on appeal. v. Pacheco, 30 Cal. 531.
15. Where an answer is filed the Court may grant any relief consistent 

the case made by the complaint, and embraced within the issue. Savings

and Loan Society v. Thompson, Oct. '1‘. 1867. '
16. The provisions of this section ap ly to Mandamus and Qua warrmto;
People v. Board of Supervisors, Ban lihrmgsco 00., 27 Cal. 655.

17. J'udgment:ingoldooin.eto.-—Seepo:t§150;aote No. 21,and notes
to§200,6—2L

18. Judgment: by defau1t.—-See further post. § 160, and notes.

§ 148. Action may be dismissed or nonsuit enwred.

An action may be dismissed or a judgment of nonsuit entered in the following cases :

1st. By the plaintifff himself, at any time before trial, upon.

the payment of costs, if a counterclaim has not been made.

.If a provisional remedy has been allowed, the undertaking

shall thereupon be delivered by the clerk to the defendant,
who may have his action thereon :
2d. By either party, upon the written consent of the
other : 8d. By the Court, when the plaintifff fails to appear on the
trial, and the defendant appears and asks for the dismissal:

4th. By the Court, when upon the trial, and before the
iinal submission of the case, the plaintifff abandons it :

5th. By the Court, upon motion of the defendant, when
upon the trial the plaintifff fails to prove a sufficient case for
the jury. The dismissal mentioned in the first two subdivisions, shall be made by an entry in the clerk's register.
Judgment may thereupon be entered accordingly.

Abb. Forms, 1747.

1. First aubdiviaion.—Plaintin‘ has not the absolute right to take a nonsuit after the case has been hnally submitted and the 'ury has retired; but
such right does not exist at any time before such final su mission and retirement. Brown v. Harter, 18 Cal. 76.

2. Plaintiff has a right to take a nonsuit at any time before the jury retires,
there being no counterclaim. Hancock Ditch 0'0. v. Bradford, 13 Cal. 637.

3. Nor, under the one hundred and forty-eighth section of the Practice
Act, is he bound to tender costs before the nonsmt. The provision as to costs
is simply that, by the nonsuit, plaintiff becomes subject to costs. Id.

4. 0. being one of four defendants in ejectment, moved to transfer the actian to a United States Court on the ‘ground of his alienage, and an order was

made staying all pro until e motion could be heard. Before the
hearing of t e motion, la as ’s dismissed the action as to C. and one other

defendant, and took ju ent against the other two who had made default.

0. afterwards insisted upon his motion, and filed affidavits tending to show
that the defaulting defendants were occu ying the premises as his tenants,
and were colluding with the plaintid. e motion was denied, and C., having appealed from that order and from the judgment: Held, that the denial
of the motion was pro r, as after C.’s dismissal it could not properly be entertained. Reed v. 0 , 22 Cal. 463.

5. If a plaintifff who had appeared by attorney, afterwards stipulates in
 that the action be dismissed, the Court should not make an order of
dismissal unless the attorne of record assents to the same. Board of Oommissioaers v. Younger, 29 C . 147. 6. In an action of e'ectment ' at several defendants, the laintii may
It any time before ' dismiss e action as to some of the de endants, and
proceed against the others alone. Read v. Calder-wood, 22 Cal. 463.

7. If one of several defendants in ejectment answers and the others make
default, the plaintifff may, before trial, dismiss the action as to the defendant
3c:L6V8:8l§Ig, and take judgment against the others. Dimiclc v. Deringer, 32

_ 8. In an action upon a joint and several bond, where all the persons who
Ilgn it are made do endants in the complaint, the plaintifff may 0 to trial, if
he elects so to do, before all the defendants are served, and may 'smiss as to
Iome of the defendants, and take judgment against the others. People v.
Evans, 29 Cal. 429.

9. The laintif in ejectment, if no counterclaim is made in the answer,
has a righ to dismiss the action as to one or all of the defendants. Dimiclc

v. Du-inger, 32 Cal. 488.

10. The defendant in his answer to the complaint set up a cross demandVhich he insisted was a proper counterclaim, and pra ed amrmative reliefMtervards a sti ulation, signed by the attorneys of e respective parties»
its filed, where y it was provided that upon the trial of the cause an account
mlghtbe taken of the matter thus set up; that if a balance might be entered,
“lat the stipulation should be regarded as a com romise of the counterclaim,
811d that e counterclaim should be deeme stricken from the answer.
Held, that on this state of the record, the Clerk was not re uired or authorlied by section one hundred and forty-eight of the Practice ct, in the absence
0' my direction from the Court or counsel of the defendant, to enter an org mu request of plaintifff dismissing the action. People v. Loewy, 29

11. The construction of the pleadings and stipulation, and determination

re uired the exercise bf 'udicial functions not conferred upon the clerk. A Id.

2. Whereacounter " hasbeen setupin ananswer,andastipulaticn
nled in which it was rovided that its revisions were accepted as a com
misc of the count set 11 , and at the counterclaim should be deemed

stricken from the answer, an also that an account of the rents and pronts

"demanded in the counterclaim should be taken, and if there’ was an balance

remaining after satisfying the amount for which them i e co d be enforced by the relator against the respondent, that then a ju ent should be
entered for the payment of the same to the respondent: H , that the clerk
had no wet to enter a  without an order of Court. Polhemus Y.

Loewy, ct. '1‘. 1865.

13. Second snbdivillonr-After an action has been tried -and submitted,
the plaintifff has no right to dismiss it, nor has the Courtan auth ' m
enter an order ofdismissalwithcut the consentofthedefen t. H
v. Oastro, 22 Cal. 101.

14. Third subdivision.—-Where the plaintifff fails to appear and rosecute
his suit, and the defendant moves for a nonsuit., the Court has no ternative
but to grant it. Pcralta v. Marisa, 3 Cal. 185.

15. Fifth subdivision.—-Where four persons were sued as co-defendants on

T a joint contract, and the plaintii adduced no evidence to establish the joint

' bili of all, and a motion for a nonsuit was made on this gound, but
ref by the Court, and judgment was rendered against all the fendants,
jointly: Held, that the judgment was erroneous; Held further, that the
Eu’ ' s ' thavediscontinuedthesuit as against thosenot showntobe

’ ble, and ve proceeded to judgment against those whose liability was
established, upon such terms and conditions as should appear to be just.
Acquilal v. Orcwcll, 1 0al._l.9l. _

16. If there be some evidence which tends or conduces to prove all the material alle ’ no of the complaint, the sumciency thereof is a question for
thejury; utwhere there ianoevidmceonsomemata-iolpointnecessaaytobe

ved inorder to make out a cause of action, it becomes the duty of the
1' 0116111, 100% motion of the defendant, to order a nonsuit. Ringgold v. Haven,
17. An action was brought  the defendants to recover damages for

- injuries to goods, in being carried from New York to San Francisco, foundql

not upon contract, but upon the common law d of carriers. Held, that it

‘ was n or the plaintifff to establish, noto ythedelivery of the 

to the dcfen ts, but that they were engaged in the business of trsnsgrrtang
goods as common carriers; and there being no evidence whatever that e deendants were common carriers: Held, also, that a motion for a nonsuit
should have been granted by the Court below. Id.
18. The doctrine of Ringgold v. Haven 4: Livingston (1 Cal. 108), thatitis the

duty of the Court in agape: case to nonsuit the plaintifff, amrmed. Dairyinple v. Hanson, 1 Cal. 1

19. Where there is no evidence to make out a cause of action, the Court
should ncnsuit the plaintifff. Id.

20. It is error to refuse, in an action of ejectment, anonsuit as to end:

defendants as were not in possession of the premises at the commencement of
the action. Garner v. Marshall, 9 Cal. 268.

~ 21. In ejectment, upon disclaimer of ssion or interest in the property, a 'udgment for the plaintifff cannot entered. When such disclaim r

igrieltisew upon, the only proper judgment is one of nonsuit. Noe v. Card, 4
a . .

22. When the evidence, and the presumption reasonably arising therefrom,

‘tend to prove the facts in controversy, a nonsuit is im roper. The case

should be submitted to the jury. De Ra v. Cordes, 4 Cal.’ 1 7.

23. Nonsuit not proper where there is any evidence tending to prove die
indebtedness. Oravens v. Dewey, 13 Cal. 40.

24. If the evidence of the plaintifff will not authorize a jury to dud a verdict

‘ for him, or if the Court would set it aside, it‘ so found, as contrary to evidence,

s in the dntyoftheOourt tononsuittheplaintiff. Hdeerv.Bnsuss, mu.

121.

$5. Courtsshonld, of theirownmotion,dismiss acsse based uponaoor
idss-ation which contravenes ublic policv. whether the ' to the CH
take the objection or not. V ' v. Stewart, 15 Cal. .

26. I!’ the com laint avers that the defendant brought a false against
the pl_aintiR, an threatened to publish the same an injure his ‘t nnleU

he afslseaccountandthatb reaeonofthefalsechargeandthreatshe

' the same without other oonsi oration, and prays judgment for the money

thus paid, the payment of the money without consideration is the gist of the

laintih‘ ‘a cause of action, and upon that issue he holds the amrmstivs. K
gefailstoolerauyevidenceof thefacts ta ' toshowawantofconsiderstiou, anonsuit should be granted. Kefiler v. ells, 1".hrgolc0o., % Cal. 601.

27. A nonsuit should not begranted if there isevidence tend’ to
all the material allegations of the complaint. McKee v. Greene, 31 al. 18.

28. In considering the correctness of the ruling of the Court below, in
pan ' a nonsnit, the Supreme Court will consider as Br-oven every fad
which e evidence tended to prove, and which was esse ' to be ven, in
(eitlitleao the plaintin‘ to recover. Dow v. Gould ct Curry Silver M 00., 31

‘ 6 .

29. A party moving for a nonsuit should state in his motion precisely
pounds upon which he relies, so that the attention of-the Court and E
o 'te counsel may be particularly directed to the supposed defects in the
 s case. People v. Banvard, 27 Cal. 474.

30. Where,in anaction forbreach ofverbal contract,therewas a '
diference between the statement of the complaint and that in the answer
the promises, on the part of the plaintiff, which were the consideration if
defendant's promise, but no issue was raised by the answer as to the performance by plamtih‘ of his promises, and on the trial, laintiff rested 
proof as to the consideration: that under the eadi , the absence
proof on this int was not ground or a nonsuit. stern v. , 20Cal. 586.

31. When plaintifff closeshis evidence, if the Courtis of opinion that
it would not sustain a verdictin favor of plaintiff u n the testimony, a non, suit should be_g'anted. Ensminger V. Mclntirs, 23 0.1. 593.

32. Where, in an action on a verbal contract, the com laint alleged several
distinct promises on the part of defendants, which were nied by the answer,
and on the trial the plamtiff introduced no proof exceptas to one of the
promises: Held, that this was not ground for nonsuit; t the provision of
the Practice Act above referred to require a relaxation of the common law
rulerespecting a variance, and that it being apparent that defendants were
notsurprisedordprejudiced bythe failure of proof, the error in ststingths
agreement shoul have been disregarded. Peters v. Fees, 20 Cal. 686.

33. In an action of ejectment. one of several defendants, who in his answer
disclaims all ht, title and interest in the premises, but also denies all the
allegations of t e complaint, and avers that “ he was and still is lawfully seized
and in possession” of the land claimed, is a proper party, and is not entitled to
have the action dismissed as to himself. Pioche v. Paul, 22 Cal. 106.

34. it is not error to nonsuit p1ainti& upon tin opening statement of their
counsel. Hofman v. 1751!, Oct. . 1867.

35. Relewee may ¢rant.—Uuder our statue, the rebree takes the place of
the Judge, in the trial of all cases referred to him, and may grant a nousuit.
Plant v. Fleming, 20 Cal. 92.

36. A plaintifff can voluntarily submit to a nonsuit before a referee in a case
when no counterclaim is set up by the defendant. Id.

37. What operates as a discontlnuance.—'l‘he plaintiff commenced as
scthin of forcible entry and detainer against the delbndant, in a Justice’s Court.
The Justice, instead of trying the case, certified it to the District Court. Held,
that the transfer wasillegal. and could not defeat the plaintifffs right by operating as a discontinuance. Lame v. Gaslcins. 5 Cal. 607.

38. The submission of a cause in Court to arbitration operates as a'disooathusmeotthesuit. (Junta-v.8anchs:,l0al.45. ‘

39. Motionbr, when waived by the dedendant.—Where a defendant
moved for a nonsuit, and afterwards introduced evidence supplying the defect
in the plaintiffs testimony, on which the motion for nonsnit was founded : Held,
that the defendant had thereby waived his motion, and could not insist upon it
in this Court. Ringgold v. Haven. 1 Cal. 108.

- 40. Per Blmnrrr, J.--The ,practice of nonsuit and of demun-er to evidmce
considered. Id.

' 41. Where a motion for nonsuit was improperly denied, but the defendant
men introduced testimony enabling the laintid‘ to suppl the defect in his case :
‘Held, that defendant thereby waived e objection. mith v. Oompton, 6 Cal.
84' Perkins v. Thornburgh, 10 Id. 189.

. 12. A failure on the part of a plaintifff to make out his case, and error in the
Court in refusing to instruct the Jury as in case of nonsuit, can be cured by the
testimony of the defense. Winans v. Hardenbsrgh, 8 Cal. 291.

43, Generally.—Where the complaint in an action on a bill of exchange deIcribes it as payable to the order of A., whereas the bill offered in evidence is
drawn ayable to B, it is a variance to be taken advantage of by objecting to
the evi ence, or by a motion of nonsuit. Farmer v. Cram, 7 Cal. 135.

44. Where a motion is made for a nonsuit, without stating the grounds upon
gzicgét is made, it is not error to overrule the motion. K iter v. K imbal, 10

46. Where plaintimi, having excepted to the ruling of the Court excluding
certain evidence, take. in consequence of such ruling. a nonsuit, with leave to
move to set it aside, they do not waive an of their rights as to the exception
taken. Objections to the introduction o evidence condned in the Appellate
 t(5>4t4he grounds taken below. Natoma Water and Mining 00. v. Ularlcin,

a .' .

46. The decision in Ringgotd v. Haven (1 Cal. 108) that the power of compulsory nonsuit exists, ap roved. Mateer v. Brown, 1 Cal. 221.

47. Costs, by way 0 indemnity, ought not to be taxed in case of a nonsuit.
Rice v. Leonard, 5 Cal. 61.

48. Where a bill disclosed that the same subject matter had been litigated between the same parties in a prior suit, and that in the said suit the plaintiff in
this suit had set u the same equity which he claims by this bill, the bill was
ordered to be dismased. Barnett v. Kilbournc, 3 Cal. 327.

§ 149. Judgment on the merits, when.
In every case, other than those mentioned in the last section, the judgment shall be rendered on the merits.

T I T L E X I .
CHAPTER II.—Judgment upon failure to answer.

81:0. 150. In what cases judgment may be had upon the failure of the defendant to answer.

Judgment may be had, if the defendant fail to answer the
complaint, as follows’:

lst. In an action arising upon contract for the recovery of
money or damages only, if no answer has been filed with the

Clerk of the Court within the time specified in the summons,
or such further time as may have been granted, the Clerk,
upon application of the plaintiff, shall enter the default
of the defendant, and immediately thereafter enter judgment
for the amount specified in the summons, including the costs,
against the defendant, or against one or more of several defendants in the cases provided for in section thirty-two:

2d. In other actions, if no answer has been filed with the

Clerk of the Court within the time specified in the summons, 'or such further time as may have been granted, the Clerk
shall enter the default of the defendant ; and thereafter the

plaintifff may apply at the first or any subsequent term of the '

Court for the relief demanded in the complaint. If the taking of an account, or the proof of any fact, be necessary to

enable the Court to give judgment, or to carry the judgment A

into effect, the Court may take the account or hear the proof;
or- may, in its discretion, order a reference for that purpose.
And where the action is for the recovery of damages, in

whole or in part, the Court maykorder the damages to be as- '

sessed by a jury ; or if, to determine the amount of damages,
the examination of a long account be necessary, by a reference as above provided:

3d. In actions, where the service of the summons was by
publication, the plaintifff, upon the expiration of the time designated in the order of publication, may, upon proof of the
publication, and that no answer has been filed, apply for
judgment; and the Court shall thereupon require proof to
be made of the demand mentioned in the complaint; and if
the defendant be not a resident of the State, shall require
the plaintifff or his agent to be examined on oath, respecting
any payments that have been made to the plaintifff, or to any

one for his use, on account of such demand, and may render
Judgment for the amount which he is entitled to recover.
Bancroft’: Forms, 664 and 565.

1-Aiu t defaultbef th ‘ti fthefulltimewillbe
Vmod ond§1I)npee?\l.byBurt v. Scracillfwn, ‘la eC?.u:l(;ln 0 "3-lnproeeedingstoeontesttheelectionsofeo omeermtheeonteetant

in-at permitted to take judgment by default. 7. Chapman, April '1'. _ ,

1868.

3_-Wlgereacom laintfailstostatefacts sumcienttoeonstitute a eauseof

'°°“11. t default will be arsed Halloolc .
hag Bu“.  rev on appeal 7

4.Whereoneo cfsevenaldefendsntsappesrsanddemsrs, andthe
demurrer is sustain it is error for the Court to give judzment in favor of
the defendant who does not appear. Fhnsdl v. Jackson, 28 Cal. 105.

41. A default may as well be taker;$.i.n.st a ' ' corporation as against
a private person. The rules of pl ‘n are gen ; they were designed to
embrace all persons, neural or artincahespable ofsuingor being sued.
Htgnt X.j1(;‘(ilty of Sanb’F':-iar;c‘i‘.]9Jtco, 11 Cal). 250. ti

. gment e may entered ' at a corpora on, incorporated under the laws of two8tates. D v. glee Mhriposa 00., Oct. '1‘. 1867.

6. A judgment by default may as well taken st an administrator as
an other party. Chase v. Swain, Administrator, 9 . 130.

. A dual judgment by default can properly be rendered upon an unliqnidated demand, where the defendant has been nodded in the summons of the
&Cl:lt‘)Il2Igt4 for which the plaintiff will ;take judgment. Hcrtmanv. Williams, 5

8. The several counts are distinct causes of action; and the fact thstby
reason of one of them having been imperfectl stated, no hgudgment could be
rendered on that count, does not afect the rig t of lain ' to take ju ent
onthosewhichsrerightl stated. Huntv. C of anI"rancisco,ll .250.

9. A default on a comp ' t containing special counts defectively stated will
support a ju ent——the default be’ a confession of the indebtedness for
the causes an the accounts alleg in the complaint. Id.

10. In all cases not within the exce tion of the statute, an answer without
a verification to a complaint duly ve ed may be stricken out on motion, and
s lication for j ent, as upon default, may be made at the same time.

v. Whiting, Cal. 422.

11. Where an amended complaint in ejectment sets in title acquired after
the commencement of the suit. and a judgment by de ult is regularly entered, the judgment is valid. In this case, the Court denied a trial by jury,
and took proof as to title and "possession. Smith v. Billett. 16 Cal. 23.

12. In suit to recover money due on a promissory note, and to establish a
lien for the amount upon certain real estate purchased with money advanced
by plaintifff to defendant. and for which advance the note was 'ven, the Clerk
entered judgment b default for the amount of the note. laintif, having
exhausted his rem ‘es on this judgment, by execution and proceedings supplementary thereto, obtained from the Court a decree for the equitable relief
sought in the complaint, to wit: for a lien upon and a sale of the real estate.
Held, that this decree was comm non judtce, and void--assuming the judgment
by the defendant to be valid. Such judgment if valid, terminated the controversy, and whatever related to the merits of the case was merged in the judgment. Kittridge v. Stevens. 16 Cal. 381.

13. Doubtful whether the Clerk could enter judgment, in an action of this
nature, without application to the Court. This point reserved. Id.

11. A notice that defendant will move before a Court commissioner to dissolve an attachment issued in a cause is not such an a pearance in an action
as Bill“ agzgorize the clerk to enter a judgment by de t. Glidden v. Packard,

15. A judgment in ejectment awarding damages, rendered on a default, will
not be reversed, because it does not a that the Court examined witnesses
upon the question of dams. s. Dimw v. Campbell, 31 Cal. 238.

' 16. When the defendant emands a bill of particulars, and obtains an order
for leave to answer within ten days after the bill is served, which does not
contain the items of account, the clerk ma enter a default and judgment if
the defendant fails to answer within ten ays. Id. Providence flbol &>. v.

Prader. 32 Cal. 634. Ju ent by Default, see further ante, § 147 and notes;
‘also, § 144, Nos. 84-88, 9 91.

11. Against what defendants, when all notserved.——Where the action
is against defendants severally liable, a portion only being served with process, the clerk can, on application of plaintifff, enter judgment, upon default,
sgainstthepartiesserved, without$ai-dtotheotherpartles named in the
co ' t. Kellyv. VanAudin.l7 . 564.

1 . Where, in an action against defendants jointly, and not severally Hallo.

3. pononenly of  vmnpnoeeus.-memerx  on the apphcation of plaintiff, enter judgment upon default, against the parties served
only. A ‘judgment eoente-red as  Id.

19. 1! persons are served with summons who are not named in the complaint, either by real or lichtious names-, it is error to render judgment against
ydlenuby default. Lampiag e 00. v. Hyatt at az., 27 ca. 102.

$1. No proof of facts required.—Where the comslaint is verilied, and
the defendant fails to answer, plaintiff is entitled to 'u gment on the complaint without proof of the facts alleged therein. uoiumnc Redemption 00.

“v. Patterson, 18 Cal. 415; Lick v. Stoclcdale, Id. 219. See exceptions under

subdivisions two and three of this section.

21. Gold oadn. zludsment ln.——If the notesued on is pa able in money
gen _ K, and the com, laint contains a cop of the same. e clerk cannot,
‘alter de anlt, enter ju ent yable in go d coin, although the complaint
pm for such Ju ent. ' v. Eldridge, 27 Cal. 495. ‘

 - ' If thecom fnt in anaction on ajudgment averthat the ' ent
sued on was nen ered payable in gold coin, and defendant makes def t, the
clerk should enter judgment pa able in the some kind of money. Id. And in
.33 lotion‘ upon it note pay ein gold coin, if the defendant sufers adehnlt. the clerk may enter a judgment against him . ynble in gold coin.
Harding v. Gaming, 28 Cal. 212. See further. post, t , note No. 6-20. [See
also as to contracts made gr-ior to the _ of the S ihe Contract Act,
Gallandv. Lewis, 26 Cal. 4 . Bee ante, t 147. For pub o revenue. vlherfage.
etc., in San Francisco, jud nt may be ren ered in gold coin. The Peoplev.
the Steamer America, Jan. A . 1868, 23.

23. Judgment entered by order of Court.-Upon {acts found. whether
hy reportof referee or specislverdiot of the jury, the direct action of the
Court must be invoked before the judgment can be entered. Peabody v.
PMIFO. .9 Cal. 224.

24. Where a demurrer has been dled, the Clerk cannot enter s default tithout an order of Court. Oliphant v. Whiting, Oct. T. 1867.

25. Where a frivolous demurrer is med, and no leave is asked to file an an,swer, it is not error for the Court to enter a default of judgment upon over}ruling the demurrer. Scale v. McLaughlin. 28 Cal. 668.

26. If an answer is nled raising an issue or issues, and a trial is had, and
witnesses are sworn‘ and examined, and the Court takes the case into consideration, it cannot then strike out the answer of the defendant and enter his
default. and render judgment fo‘1;1p|sin.h'n‘ for the amount claimed in the complaint. Abbott v. Douglass, 28 C .296.

A demurrer pend"-11g,nn ll:«t':-nilt sal1m11¢1 lw o1'1te=re(l or jmlguzc-11t taken.
See § 315, sub-head: “ l‘l'he'n _j?.¢rlg)m=;‘el'. will he 7'm'u1a2:'r.‘r.!."

'37. What a default Cures or adinits.-—-A. (loft-_*-L*ll\'t* ullr_!;_{ati(';n of :1 {mat
may be cured by (lt3fall1lI- or vur:1‘('-t, but not so the e=1':tire_~ ulnar-lncre of .~u1_v allugation Wl1:tl—:50(3\'cI'. Uenf.~.'c.'J: V. I’~;'tr':r. 1U (Ell. 5.35; ,b’r1rrrm V. Frink, 30
Cu]. -189: I":=up1»:=. v. 1::m._~., 23 (3:11. 137.

28. A defmilt r_'anl_'_.' il(lllllt.H' tllzie I'm-.t~; :11]:-gr;-ul in the<.'(_'»n'1p1ni11t. Id. Harlan v.
Smith. 6 Cal. 173; .ll::ff-:':;r;«;7' v. .'~'ha.u~. 11 Id. 47.

29. Vs-"l1ere 3. mun is sued by at 1'iutitim1.-' 11:11n<~.. amd the I‘(:tur11 of the sheriff
on the HllIIlID(_II1E-l .‘ill(}W;‘-i b'l_"l‘\"l{'L' on the (lL—l'r+11rl:111t lug,‘ his proper 11u.n'u;- as “Jolln
Doe. r_L1i'vJs \'b'e'.~5t-full," :1 dufm.1lt. l_)L'-irng t'.I1l.t:I{=.(‘l, _jm_l:.:1m-mt In:-Ly be rendr-1'ed
against. the def'e11d-mil. in his true 1'1mm.+, W(J.~=.tf:Ll1, witlmut ltaruof that Doe and
‘West-fall are the Same. (':u't£.x- v Hr’rri¢'!c, 14. (.‘ul. 117.

 “Where the complaint. an-rs tit-le as u(l111i11i:-strator, a default admits
it. til.

31. The j11d,r.{mc-nt ::g:'Linst 21.11 lltlllllllllitrllt-()I', thonggh i11 flu: form of :1 m11111'1on
money judglllcnt by dcfulllt, is valid. its ¢_a11l~\_’t-lllect. 1):.-imz to E-:t3llJ.l.ll.lh’ll the
Validity of the c-la..iu1. f.'}u'c.~:eI v. ._‘~'u*.r:in, .—'l«1'mi.r«.i.~<tmtur, ‘J (,‘-ul. 1130.

33. A default on 9. complaint. t"I'll1tltll1lI1}.{ .~eI')('clul cmxnts, deter-t.ive-1}’ stated,
and also the common cm1nt.~z in Ifl.\‘.s"?£I:t1:.s‘l.l, pru_pErrl}' Still’,-L"t'l, will .~+uppnrtu.j11dgn1ent~—-the default being a. confe:-'.rsiou of the inulcbtulnc-5:; for the cu11:ie.~:~ and

-pglthgsoaccounts alleged in the complaint Hunt v. Uityof San Francisco, 11

33. Where the summons has been duly served. a ‘judgment by default
amounts to a confession on the art of the defendants c all the matedalfacts
in the complaint. Rowe v. Ihb Mountain Water 00., 10 Cal. 441.

34. Where an amended complaint in ejectment sets zp title acquired afta
the commencement of the suit, and ju ent by defa tis regularly entered,
thgsju ent is valid. Smith v. Billett, 5 Cal. 23.

. e want of an allegation of actual ouster in a complaint in ejechnmt
is a defect which cannot be cured by a default taken through the mistake or
inadvertency of defendant's counsel. Watson v. Zimmerman, 6 Cal. 47; Id.
174. But see Paine d: Dewey v. Treadwell, 16 Cal. 243.

36. Waiver of default.—An acceptance by laintid‘ ’s attorney of service
of a demurrer, filed by a defendant after his efault has been entered, is a
waiver of the default. Heat:-es, Administrator, v. Clements, 21 Cal. 425.

37. The clerk act: minlsterially.--The clerk of a Court, in entering a
judgment after default, acts in a mere ministerial capacity, and cannot render
a judgment granting any relief be ond that warranted the facts stated in
-the complaint. G-ray v. Palmer, Cal. 416; Wallace v. ldredge, 27 Cal. (Na
1) 495; Kell v. Van Austin, 17 Cal. 564; Wilsovt v. Cleaveland, 30 Cal. 192;
Leesev. Olar , 28Cal. 33.

39. When the law declares what the judgment shall be, a 'udg'ment on default is not the judgment of the clerk. Harding v. Coming, Cal. 212.

40. Clerk's recitals in the judgment.—It is not necessary for the clerlr,
in entering up a judgment, to insert therein recitals of his exposition of the
preceding facts. Leeee v. Clark, 28 Cal. 33.

41. The clerk derives all his power in entering a default, without an order
of the Court, from the statute, and when he enters a default it must ap
that all the facts existed which the law requires to authorize it. Proougsxz
vflbol Co. v. Prader, 32 Cal. 634.

_ 42. Piling answer before default.—A.n answer died without leave of
Court after the time for answering has expired, but before default has been
 not a nullity, but at most, an irregularity. Bowers v. Dickerson,

43. when a judgment bydefaultwill bereversedon appeal.-—'1‘here
may be error in a judgment by default. as well as in a judgment rendered
~upon issue 'oined in the pleadings and tried by a jury; and in the former, as
iveélalasgtilie tier case, the error may be corrected on appeal. Stevens v. Ross,

44. When suit is brought  a rson in a county other than that in
which he resides, he has t ' y (now Egenty) days within which to answer,
exclusive of the day on which the summons is served; and a judgment by default before the expiration of the full time will be reversed on appeal. Burt
v. Scranton, 1 Cal. 416.

45. If the summons be radically defective, it will not support a judgment
by default. The People v. Woodlie , 2 Cal. 241.

46. A judgment by default will reversed by the Supreme Court, where
the record shows that the defendant has not been legally served with process.
J ce v. Joyce, 5 Cal. 449. ‘

7. Where judgment by default is entered, in an action against a for
fraudulently converting money of the plaintid, the summons must ve
apprised the defendant that, on failure to answer, judgment would be taken
against him for the fraud; a more notice in the summons that a money ju ment would be taken will not support a judgment for fraud.—Per Burnett, .
Porter v. Hermann, 8 Cal. 519.

48. Where the complaint shows no legal cause of action, a judgment by
default can no more be taken than it can be over a general demurrer. Abbe v.
Jfarr, 14 Cal. 210.

49. A judgment rendered upon a complaint radically defective, may be
treated as a nullity. Reynolds v. Harris, 9 Cal. 338.

T I T L E X I I .
Czurrnn HI.—0f issues, and the manner of their disposition.

Snonox 151. Issue defined, and their diiferent kinds.

152. Issue of law, how raised.

153. Issue of fact, how raised.

154. Issue of law. how tried.

155. Issue of fact, how tried ; when issues both of law and fact,
the former to be first disposed of.

156. Clerks shall enter causes on the calendar, and to remain
until disposed of.

157. Parties may bring issue to trial.

158. Motions to postpone on grounds of absence of evidence,
requisites of.

§ 151. Issue defined, and their diferent kinds.

An issue arises when a fact or conclusion of law is maintained by the one party, and is controverted by the other..

Issues are of two kinds:
1st. Of law: and,

2d. Of fact.
N. Y. Code, $248.

§ 152. ‘Issues of law, haw raised.

An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the complaint.

or answer (or) to some part thereof.
A ‘Amended 1354. as. N. Y. Code, § 249.

§ 153. ‘Issues of fact, how raised.

An issue of. fact arises,

1st. Upon a material allegation in the complaint controverted by the answer; and,

2d. Upon new matters in the answer except an issue of law

is joined therein. ,
‘Amended 1854, 88. N. Y. Code, § 250.

1. If the plaintiff, in his complaint in ejectment, avers title in himself, and the
defendant inter-poses a general denial, the respective titles of the plaintifff and
defendant are put in issue. Harshall V. Shaffer, 32 Cal. 176.

§ 154. Issue of law, how tried.
An issue of law shall be tried by the Court, unless it _be

referred, upon consent, as provided in chapter six of this title.
N. Y. Code, § 253.

§ 155. Issue offact, how tried; whenissues both of law and
fact, the farmer to be first disposed of.

An issue of fact shall he tried by a jury, unless a jury trial
is waived, or a reference be ordered, as provided in this act.
Where there are issues both of law and fact to’ the same’ complaint, the issues of law shall be first disposed of.

N. Y. Code, § 253." As to waiver of trial by jury. see § 179.

1. A trial, is the examination before a competent tribunal, according to the
law of the land. of the facts, or a question of law put in issue in a cause for the
purpose of determining such issue. Mulford v. Estudillo. 32 Cal. 131.

2. Until a decision of the Court has been entered in the minutes, or reduced to  bythe Judge, and signed by him, and filed with the clerk, a
case has not been tried. Hastings v. Hastings, 31 Cal. 95.

3. Issueof law should be drst disposed o!.—-When there is both a demurrer andan answer to the same’ complaint, raisingboth an issue of law
13:11‘ fang‘, the issue of law should first be disposed of. Brooks 7. Dougiass, 32

4. Jury trial in equity casee;—The trial by jury does not necessarily attachtoe 8mithv.Ro1o¢,4Cal.7. M .

5. In ncery proceedings, parties are not entitled to a trial by ‘my, bezuse iltl be utterly fruitless. Walker V. Sedgwtclc; 5 Cal 192; alcooa v.

(ii, The language of the constitution as to the right‘ of trial by jury, was‘
used with referenceto the right as it exists at common law. This right of
trial :3  cannot be claimed in equi cases, unless an issue of fact be
fram or the jury under the direction o the Court. Koppikus v. S&ite‘C'apiM70 , 16 Cal. 248. h

. urt setti in equity ma d1rec' t, w enever in its ju ent it ma

become pro , annigssue to be fraxhed‘u$)n the " , anciigttrslubmitted ti;
the jury. urtis v. Butter, 15 Cal. 263; eber v. are , 19 Id. 447.

8.Inchan casves,the0oui'tbelo ma dis:-egar" dthverdict fa;u:ry' .
Goodev. 8mit(I:r1y3 Cal. 84. W y 9 0

9. In an application for a mandamus to compel a Dishict~Jud§e to si
bill of exceptions, which the relator alleges he refuseatodo, and-w erethe
trict Judge In his answer avers that he has signed a true bill of exceptions,
m that the one eriesented by relator is not a‘Ptrue bill: Held, that the
torisnotenti to a‘ ‘to theissue. eople .Judgeo thellanth
Judicial District, 9 Cal. 21. Jury try V f

10. Jury trial.-—Where the answer contains. both a legal and equitable defense, the Court may first try the equitable defense, and refuse the plaintii a
jury trial, and if the facts warrant it, grant the equihbie relief prayed for:
Bodlcy v. Ferguson, 30 Cal. 511.

11. Special issues may be framed.—Special issues, framed by the Court
according’ to chancery practice, may be tried by a jury in ui cases;
but .1! e failure to present the issues is the‘ result‘ of pltegn a own
1&3t1g3,5 he cannot be allowed to take advantage of it. Brewster v. Bours, 8

12. What are proper q'u‘auoua'for a jury.—Whero the boundaries of a"

lot of land grantedbyan Alealde are uncertain, the ' should determine‘
the true location of the lot in question. Reynolds v. est, 1 Cal. 328.
13. The question of the possession and identity of die land‘ should’ be left
to the 'nry. Hicks v. Davis, 4 Cal. 69. ,
14. iNhat’ is‘ actual and whatis constructive possession‘ in many cases, niust
he 8 question of fact for the jury. .0’C'at1agIum v. Booth, 6 Cal. 65. p
15. The fact of the dedication of the premises by possession as‘ a homestead, was properly submitted tothe jury. Cook 7. Mc0Iu‘is¢ian,~ {Cit 26.

16. Dedication of a street is a conclusion oi‘ fact, to be drawn by the jury
from the circurnstances of each particular case; the whole question as against
the owner of the soil being, whether there is sumcient evidence of an intend-'
tion on his part to dedicate the land to the public as apublic highway. Harding v. hsper, 14 Cal. 648.

17. The question of abandonment of a mining claim should be left to the
jury u n the facts adduced in evidence. Waring v. Crow, 11 Cal. 371.

18. he reasonableness of the use of water is a question for the jury, to be
determined by them upon the facts and circumstances of each particular case.
bnond v. Chan. 15 Cal. 143.

i 19. Whether phintiifs, who had posted notices claiming the water of a certain
river, and stating their intention to construct a ditch or flame, and appropriate’
the water for mining purposes, began their surveys, etc. and prosecuted their
work to completion with due diligence. as against ‘parties attem ting subsequently to appropriate the water, is a question for e jury. and eir verdict,
g:l.co2i’;liicting testimony, will be conclusive. Weaver v. Eureka Lalce 00., 15
- 4.

20. In an action of trespass, the question of damages is a question particularly for thejury. Dralce v. Pahner, 4 Cal. 11.

21. The fact whether a structure was a public nuisance is a question, not for
he Court, but for the jury, to decide. Gunter v. Gear-y. 1 Cal. 467.
22. The question of malice, in an action for malicious prosecntioniis one

solely tor a jury, and the charges must be shown to have been willful y false.
1’&' v‘. Beck, 8 Cal. 217.

h2i::.h1n an agtion far malicitlmg pEosecuttl.iion oif a suit tgn t:hl.uil)l ‘pf excaibanhggz
w waspai .whe erthepanti sin atsutknew at i was u
paid or not, when they sued, is a question for the jury. Weaver v. Page, 6 Cal.
684.

24. Whether such a custom existed, or 11% when a custom is about being
proven. is a question for the jury to decide. anaud v. Jones. 1 Cal. 500.

25. The question of notice of dissolution of partnership is a fact for the
gnlder the charge of the Court. Rabe v. Wells, 3 Cal. 151; Treadwell v. ,

d. 260.

26. Where an action is brought for the balance of an account, and the answer
svers payment by a promissory note, and the plalntil replies that he was’
induced to receive the note by fraud, the Court held that it was one of the cases

where the party was entitled to a trial by jury, and it could not be referred by
consent of the parties. Seaman v. Mariani, 1 Cal. 336.

27. Qneltlonsotlawiorthecourt.

_28. Where there isnodisputeas tothefactl, and thelawupon those facts
declares a transaction fraudulent, it is not a question for the jury. Uhenery v.
Palmer, 6 Cal. 122.

29. What facts and circumstances constitute evidence of carelessness, is a
question of law for the Court to determine. But what particular weight the
jury should give to these facts and circumstances, is a matter for the jury.
Gerlae v. California Steam Navigation 00., 9 Cal. 258. After judgment by default in ejectment, a jury trial cannot be awarded, there being no issue.

-Smith v. Billet, 150111. 26.

30. The question, whether a judgment entered in the Court below. is entered in accordance with the mandate of the appellate Court, is one of law,
and not of fact. Lease v. Clark, 28 Cal. 33.

31. when a partycannot object that his casevraslnot triedby a‘
j!ny.—A party cannot go on and hmh case before a Judge, without objection, and after he has lost it, comp ' that the case not tried by a jury.
Smith v. Brannan, 13 Cal‘. 115.

31 As to facts recurring in the presence of the Oourt.—A Court does
not require the verdict of a jury to inform it of facts recurring in the resence
of the Court itself. People v. Judge of the Tenth Judicial District. 9 al. 21.

33. Issue of fact cannot‘ be tried in the Supreme Corn-t.—'l‘he Legislature has not provided the Supreme Court with a jury in any case, nor authors

lzed it to cause an issue of facts to be made up in this Court and referred to
another Court for trial. All issues of fact are to be tried in an inferior Court

ofthisstate. EzpartetheAttorneyGeneral,1Cal.87.

§ 156. . Clerk shall enter causes an the calendar, to remain
until disposed of.

The Clerk shall enter causes upon the calendar of the,
Court, according to the date of issue. Causes once placed
on the calendar for a general or special term, if not tried or
heard at such term, shall remain upon the calendar from
Court to Court, until finally disposed of.

N. Y. Code, 6 256.

§ 157. Parties may bring issue to trial.

Either party may bring the issue to trial, or to a hearing,
and in the absence of the adverse party, unless the Court
for good cause otherwise direct, may proceed with his case,
and take a dismissal of the action, or a verdict or judgment,

as the case may require. '

‘ § 158. Motions to postpone a trial for absence of testimony,
requisites of.

A motion to postpone a trial on the ground of the absence of
evidence, shall only be made upon affidavit, showing the ma-.
teriality of the evidence expected to be obtained, and that
due diligence has been used to procure it. The Court may

also require the moving party to state, upon affidavit, the
evidence which he expects to obtain; and if the adverse
party thereupon admit that such evidence would be given,
and that it be considered as actually given on the trial, or
offered and overruled as improper, the trial shall not be postponed.

1. Continuance discretionary with the court.-The gran ° or refusing a continuance rests in the sound discretion of the Court. usgrovs v.
Perkins, 9 Cal. 211.

2. And even when the facts show that the action of the Court below ap cached nearly to an arbitrary exercise of its discretion, that action
will no be reviewed, unless there has been a motion for a new trial, and the
application sup rted by the affidavits of the absent witness, if such affidavits
can be obtain ; or, if not, then it should be shown to the Court that they
cannot be obtained. Unless this be done, this Court will not interlere, in
civil cases, with the action of the lower Court. Pilot Rock Creek Canal 00. v.
Chapman, 11 Cal. 161 ; P v. Gaunt, 23 Cal. 156.

3. It is not an abuse of scretion for the Court to refuse a continuance on
account of the voluntary absence of the defendant on important business at
the time the case has been set for trial, when it does not appear that the business could not have been delayed, nor could not have been attended to ;by
some one else, nor that the facts were not in the possession of his attorney.
.W’ill:-inson v. Parrott, 32 Cal. 102. . 1
4. Where a case in the Twelfth Districtwas set for trial on a particular day,
with the knowledge and consent of defendant’: attorney, and he then, two or
three days before the day of trial, oes to Alameda count to tag another
cause there, a continuance was denie . Haight v. Green, 19 . 11 . “

V 5. Continuance of ease during trial.--A judge has discretionary power,
after having heard the testimony and argument of counsel in a case, and an;
nounced as-all from the bench his finding on the issues in favor of one for
the other of t e parties, to continue the case until the next term of Court.

Eating: v. Hastings, 31 Cal. 95.

6. Amdaviln must show materiality of evidence.-Where a B3
applied for a continuance to enable him to take the d 'tion of an a
witness, and the f which was designed to be obtain would constitute no
defense to the p ' tifs claim, the application was properly rejected. Hatnley
v. &ir-ling, 2 Cal. 470. .

7. A party is bound to know the materiality of testimony, except in :thp
case of surprise at trial. Berry v. Metzler, 7 Cal. 418.

8. That the evidence is not cumu1atlve.—Amdavits for a continuance,

‘onthegroundof absenceofwitnesses, shouldstatethatthefacts to
be proved by the absent witnesses cannot otherwise be proved. eople w.

' , 8 Cal. 89.

9. affidavit for continuance, on the ground that a witness is absent from
the State, must aver that the Iparty cannot, to his knowlege, prove the samp
bets by-nan other witness. ierce v. Payne, 14 Cal. 419.

10;‘! for a continuance‘sll)16ould state, that thezh facts expectedptoba

ea ntwitnesscannov rove yan o erwitness.
:.'°'......,m.. .5. P Y we

11. An affidavit for a continuance, on the ground of the absence of material
witnesses, should state that the absent witnesses are the only persons by
whom the party can prove the same facts. It is not sumcient to state that
the party has no other witnesses by whom he expects to prove the same facts.
Pope v. Dalton, 31 Cal. 218. '

12. That the tlon is not made for delay.-—An affidavit for a
continuance, on e ground of absence of a witness, should state that the
testimony wanted is not simply cumulative, and cannot be proven by others,
but that the application is not made for delay; the character of the diligencs
used in  to obtain the attendance of the witness, whether b exhausting
the process the law or otherwise, should also be stated. P v. Thompson, 40al. 240; People v. Quincy, 8 Id. 39; Pierce v. Payne, 14 I 420.

13. Amdavlt of rncrlts.—[That a parétge has a good and substantial csun

of action or defense, on the merits. Rules of Court, San Francisco
County, XLI.]

14. That due diligence has been used.— Amdavits for continuance
should show due diligence in endeavoring to procure the attendance of witnesses and in pre aring the trial. People v. Baker, 1 Cal. 404.

15. Absence o evidence is no ground for continuance, unless reasonable
diligence has been used to procure it. The arty must have resorted to
proper legal means for that purpose, or must sa sfy the Court that a resort to

c means would have been useless. K uhland v. Sedgwiclc, 17 Cal. 123. *

16. When evidence is in a party's own ssion, its absence is not excused,
on motion for c<}3tinuance, by showing t through inadvertence he is unable
to uce it.

. The answer of defendant was dled Ma 10th, 1852, and the application
for a continuance, to take testimony in New ork, was dled J une 14th, 1852,
during which interval no attempt was made to sue out a commission for the
. Held, that this is not a sumcient diligence to entitle the party to

E application. Pierson v. Holbroolc, 2 Cal. 598.

' ‘I8. Anaffidavit foracontinnance, whichmerel showsthatthedesiredwitp
nanresidesixranothercountyfromthatof thep oftrial,andthata

pmnahas been placed in thehandsofthe sherifof the countywhere e
yltness resides. and has been returned not served on the witness, does not

chow sumcient ' ‘ nce to entitle the defendant to a continuance. People v.
‘Williams, 24 Cal. 3 .

19. Admissions made to prevent a oontlnuanoe.—The plaintin’, to
avoid’ the continuance, admitted that a witness would testify to certain facts
‘set up in the affidavit, and the trial proceeded. This affidavit, thereforee, be%mc<;fvi&¢a5nce, but not conclusive proof of its contents. Btaalcmaa v. Vallgb,

1). Where it is admitted, for the urpose of preventi a continuance, that
Uieseveral witnesses named would, present, respectiv y testifyasstata-d in
Qheeaffidavit, and that their testimony should he considered as actually given
Bathe-trial, orasonersd and ovsrruled‘tl>lythe Courtasim roper, the testihonythus sssumedwasofer-ed,sndfor the purposes of e case mustbe
%e:1m<é8. as actually before the Court. Boggs v. Menccd Jfuting 00., 14

21. Surprise as a ground for oontinuance.—If defendants were surged an amendment, and found it necessary to assume a different line of
ense consequence of it, the would have been entitled to a continuance
to repare fortheir defense. v.-Oqmn, 9 Cal. 68.

. A refusal to grant a continuance for the absence of witnesses or counsel,
Hinder circumstances showing that the party or his counsel was surprised as to
Qetimoorphceof holdingCourt, iserror. Rossv. Austill.2Cal. 183.

23. If a y is taken by surprise by an extension of time totake testimony
Oefore a re eree, and we testimony thereby introduced, he should a
‘for a continuance for reason in order to procure further evidence on '
side, or he can not have the benedt of the point in the appellate Court.

maple v. Holden, ‘as can. 129.

, 24. Discovery of new evXdenoe.—It is not good ground for a new trial
that the defendant discovered material testimony at too late a period to roduce the same at the trial. It would, however, be good ound on which to
base a motion for continuance. Barry v. Lfetzlcr, 7 al. 4 8.

25. General deoisions.—-A mistaken advice of counsel to his client, not
 for trial, is no ground for a continuance. Musgrove v. Perkins, 9
2

‘g 96. An agreement of counsel for the continuance of a cause, not reduced
‘b-writing, will notbe regarded by the Court. Psralta 17. Marina, 3 Cal. 187.

27. Apartywho is unprepared for trial at the Iimeof the callingof the
«ease, shouldmove for a continuance; and if he fails to do this, he waives his
rwant of pro ‘on and cannot afterwards, when jn ent has gone ’

him, move or a newtrial on this ground. Turner 17. on-ison. 11 Cal. 1.
. 28. Courts are extremely liberal and indulgent in granting adjouruments,
'_and they are seldom or never appealed to in vain. Id.

29. In criminal cases, on a motion for continuance by defendant, on the
«sound of the absence of a material witness, based on a sumcient affidavit,
« e t of the District Attorney that the witness, if present, would
i ve -as averred -in defendant's adldavit, is not sumcient to warrant

ov the motion People v. Diaz, 6 Cal. 249.

‘TITLE XIII.
romurxon or run mar.

CHAPTER I'V.—Trial by Jury.

Section 159. Jury, how drawn, and how many to consist of.
160. Jury to be sworn.

161. Chio;|lenges,' each party: entitled to four peremptory chalnges. '
162. Grounds of challe .

163. To be tried by the ourt. Witnesses may be examined. ’

§ 159. Jury, how drawn, and how many to consist of.

b When the actionris called for trial by jury, the clerk shall
prepare separate ballots containing the names of _the jurors
summoned who have appeared and not been excused, and
deposit them in a box. He shall then draw from the box
twelve names, andvthe persons whose names are drawn shall
constitute the jury. If the ballots become exhausted before
the jury is complete, or if from any cause a juror, or jurors,
be excused or discharged, the sheriff shall summon, under the
direction of the Court, from the citizens of the county and not
from bystanders, so many qualified persons as may be necessary to complete the jury. The jury shall consist of twelve
persons, unless the parties consent to aless number. The
parties may consent to any number not less than three.
Such consent shall be entered by the clerk in the minutes of
the trial.

1. Court may excuse jurors.—'1‘he Court may, of its own motion, for
any good reason, excuse a ualilied juror from  on the panel in a criminal case; and this will not error, if the defendant is tried by a jury of lawtnl men. People 17. Arm; 320:1. -1,0.

2. A rty on trial is entitle_d‘to "a" lawful jury, but is not entitled, as a matter of ute right, to have the ilrstjuror who is called and possesses all the
_|ta_tutary qualifications, sit in his case. ’ Id.

3, Qnall£cationl of ;iurors—A ( :1 shall not becompetent to act as
 he be: llrst, a citizen 0 ‘the United States; second, an elector of
the county in which he is. rettxgued;  ‘over twergty-one and under ’ 
years of age; and fourth, in the possession of his na ural faculties; ‘fifth, nor
shall any person be com tent. to act as a juro_rwh_o has been convicted of a
felony, or misdemeanor, volv‘.n‘g moral turpitude. gtat. 1853, 107.’ ' "

-L A juror must be an elector of the county in which he is returned. and
have resided in the county thirty da s. Ham v. Schafcr, 3 Cal. 107.

5. Residence , ‘ dz nponinlen ones we es_fa_ct,_and mere inhabitanoy
for a short ri  the intention of acqumng a domicil, would not
make a reef ent,"wi nnthe meaning ofthe law, so as to oonsututo, in elector.

People}. P9:-ulta, 4 Gel. 175. i

6. A citizen of the State, who has resided in the county fourteen days, and
then been absent some months from the State, with the intention of returning
to reside in the county, and has returned and resided some fourteen days in
the county, is a competent ‘juror, his residence dating from the nrst residence,
and not from his return. eople v. Stonecifer, 6 Cal. 410.

7. The proviso of the act concerning jurors, exce tin the counties of Hontere , etc., from the provisions of the act, which req res 'uror to understand
the anguage in which the proceedings of the Court are , does not deprive
the Court in one of the exce ted counties of the power to excuse jurors of its
own motion, when those on e same panel speak several diderent languages.
People v. Arceo, 32 Cal. 40.

8. Such roviso can have effect by construing it to mean that a want of sumcient know edge of the language in which the roceedings of the Court are bad,
is not a legal disqualiilcation of a juror, but t the Court may require, in its
discretion, all the jurors on the same panel to understand the same language. Id.

9. In actions against a aheri£I'.—Wben the sharia’ is a party to the action,
the Court may order the cause tried by a special jury, to be summoned by the

coroner. Pacheco v. Hunsaclcer, 14 Cal. 120.
10. In trespass agaimt a sheriff, the Court below, on plaintilrs motion, ma

order a speciaxjury to try the case, instead of the re lar panel. The she
being interes , ought not to summon a jury. And ere being no coroner, an
.elisor may be appointed to summon ajury. Id.

11. Objeotlonstoa juror howwaived.— artywho accepts a juror
knowing him to be disqualfiled, is estopped from agerwards availing himself oi’
such disqnalillcation. People v. Btonect er, 6 Cal. 411.

12. Aindavits to the incompetency o a juror must be embodied in a bill of

exceptions, or they will not be examined by the appellate Court Id.

13. Objections to panel.—An objection is not well taken to the panel of a
trial jury, on the ground that such jug was summoned by order of the Court
after the commencement of the term. eople v. Rodriguez, 10 Cal. 59.

14. Unless an irre larity complained of in the formation of a jury goes to
the merits of the tria , or leads to the inference oi’ improper influence n n their
conduct, their verdict should not be disturbed. Thrall v. Smiley, 9 C . 538.

15. The objection to the a|l'8lmC8tl0n of a juror, that his name was not on the
venire returned by] the she , comes too late after the verdict. The objection,
if it had any vali ty, should have been urged at the trial. Id.

16. No regular panel having been drawn and summoned, the Court ordered
thirty-six jurors to be summoned, which was done; and twenty-seven of them
appearing, the Court caused their names to be put in a box, from which twelve
were drawn to constitute a trial panel: Held, not to be _a ground for challenge
to the whole panel. People v. Stuart, 4 Cal. 225.

§ 160. Jury to be sworn.

As soon as the jury is completed, an oath or amrmation
shall be administered to the jurors, in substance, that they
each of them will well and truly try the matter in issue between the plaintifff, and the defendant, and e
true verdict render according to the evidence.

Either party may challenge the jurors, but when there are
several parties on either side, they shall join in a challenge
before it can be made. The challenges shall be to-individual

jurors, and shall either be peremptory, or for cause. Each

party shall be entitled to four peremptory challenges.

' 1. Where several defendanb are tried together, they are not allowed to
sever their challe es, but all must join therein. This a lies as well to perunptory as to ohal enges for cause. People v. .llc0al1a, al. 303.

§ 162. ‘Grounds of chalknge.

Challenges for cause may be taken on one or more of the
following grounds:

let. A want of any of the qualifications prescribed by
statute to render a person competent as a juror.

2d. Consauguinity or atlinity, within the third degree, to I

either party.
3d. Standing in the relation of guardian and ward, master

and servant, employer and clerk, or principal and agent, to

either party, or being a member of the family of either
party, or a partner in the business with either party, or being security on any bond or obligation for either party.

4th. Having served as a juror or been a witness on a
previous trial between the same parties for the same cause of
action.

5th. Interest on the part of the juror in the event of the
action or in the main question involved in the action, except
the interest of the juror as a member or citizen of a munici‘pal corporation.

6th. Having formed or expressed an unqualified opinion
or belief as to the merits of the action.
7th. The existence of a state of mind in the juror evincing enmity against, or bias to, either party.

‘Amended 1860, 302; applicable to Justices’ Courts.

1. General deciIlons.—A general challenge of a ' for cause, without
' cation‘of the ‘mist ground, is insufllcient. a statute enumerseveral diieren grounds for which such challenge may be taken, and a
designation of the one upon which any particular challenge rests is essential
to its consideration b the Court. It 18 not sumcient to say: “ I challenge the

juror. for cause," an then srip. Paige v. 0'Nea1, 12 Cal. 483.
2. That a jury has just tri case involving the liability of defendant for
a similar cause of action, depending on the same general considerations, does
not render the jury incompetent to sit in‘ the subsequent case. Algier v.

.8lamIer Ihria, 14 Cal. 167.

3. In impanneling a jury each party has a right to put uestions to a juror,
to show not only that there exist proper grounds for s eh enge for cause, but
to elicit {acts to enable him to decide whether he will make a peremptory
challenge. Watson v. Whitney, 23 Cal. 375.’

4. Fourth subdlviIlon.—Where, in a civil case, Taylor, ‘a juror, had been '

accepted by both parties, and subsequently, during the examination of another

‘may not have formed or e ressed an "unqualified op‘nion.

juror,‘the fact came out that there had been a former trial of forcible entry
and detainer for the same ground now in dispute, and Taylor, then, of his
own accord, stated that the title to the ground had been spoken of in the
forcible entrycase, and that his mind was made up as to the title, and the
 thereu n challenged Ta lot for cause, and the Court excused him,
efendantsresis 'ng. on the group that it_ was too late: Held, that there is
no error; that where the Court below exercised its discretion in excnsing a
juror to attain justice, this Court would interfere with great reluctance. Gmdy
v. Early, 18 Cal. 108.

6. Sixth subdlvlslon.—That a ' ° hasread or heard a statement of the
facts of a case, does not, of itself, ' qualify him, under the statiite ; for he
" ‘mere imé
pression or suspicion deriv from such reading or hearing, does not ‘r us!ify. The juror must have reached a conclusion. like that u n whic he
would be wxlling to act in ordinary matters. People v. Reynohg? 16 Cal. 128.

6. In an actibn of ejectment, a juror who has formed an opinion adverse to
the validity of title under which defendants claimed,‘ is an incompetent juror.
White v. Moses, 11 Cal. 68.

7. A verdict of ajury will notbe set aside on the ground that one of the
jurors “ knew and was aware of the circumstances connected with the afair,"
the.subject matter of the suit, where no objection to him was raised until
after the verdict was rendered, and it not appearing that he had formed or
expressed an opinion before the trial, or was in any way biased in favor of
plaintiff. Lawrence v. Oollier, 1 Cal. 37.

8. Seventh Iubdivision.—The law cqntemplates that every juror who sits
in a cause shall have a mind free from all bias or prejudice of any kind ; and
if a juror is rejudiced in any manner, he‘ is not a proper person to sit in the

juréy box. eople v. Reyes, 5 Cal. 347. _ ‘ ‘ _
Id. . Prejudice is a state of mind which, in the eye of the law, has no degrees.

10. A juror be’ challenged for bias, was examined before triers, and a=ked
the following ques ons: lst. Are you not a member of a secret and mysterious order, known as and called Know No mch has imposed on_ you
an oath or obligation, beside which an oath a ‘ ‘stared to on in a Court of
Justice, if in condict with that oath or obligation; would is by on disregarded ? 2d. Are you a member of an _secret association, politi or otherwise, by your oazhs or obligations to w ch any prejudice exists in your mind
against Catholic forei era? 3d. Do you belong_to any secret political society, lmown as. and ed by the people at large in the United States, Know
Nothings? and if so. are you bound by an oath, or other obligation, not to
give a prisoner of foreign birth, in a Court of Justice, a fair and 
trial? Held, that the Court erred in ruling out these questions. Id. .

11. If the juror has taken such the as are'rel'erred to, hewas grosslyunllt
to sit as a juror. Id.

§ 163. To be tried by the Gmrt. Witnesses may be examined.

Challenges for cause shall be tried by the Court. The

juror challenged, and any other person, may be examined as
a witness on the trial of the challenge.

TITLE XIV.

CONDUCT OF THE TRIAL.

Section 164. Proceedings in case a (juror become sick. _'
165. Charge to the jury; ourt shall_ furnish in wriing, upon
request, the points of law contained therein.
166. Jo? may decide in Court, or retire for deliberation. Duty
0 the oilicer in cha

167. Jury may take with m certain papers.

168. May come into Court for further instructions.

169. When jury are prevented from giving verdict. the comm
ma he again tried. "

170. Whi a jury are absent the Court may adjourn from time
tr; time. Sealed verdict Final adjournment dischargq
t a jury. J

171. The jury having agreed upon a verdict, shall declare the

me

sa . r
17 2. Informal or insumcient verdict may be corrected uudq
advice of the Court. ,
173. Verdict shall be recorded in full in the minutes.

§ 164. Proceedings in case a juror become sick.

If, after the impanneling of the jury, and before verdictga
juror become sick, so as to be unable to perform his duty, the
Court may order him to be discharged. In that case the trial
may proceed with the other jurors, or a new jury may be
sworn, and the trial begin anew; or the jury may be 
charged, and a new jury then or afterwards impanneled.

1. The withdrawal of a ‘uror and the continuance of a case thereh , is no‘

grgulnd for reversing a ju ent subsequently obtained. Benedict v. ensue,‘
a . 381. s

4
5

§ 165. Charge to the jury; Court shall furnish in writing, a

upon request, the points of law contained therein. i

In charging the jury the Court shall state to them 
matters of law which it thinks necessary for their informs.-,
tion in giving their verdict; and if it state the testimony of
the case, it shall also inform the jury that they are the exalt».
sive judges of all questions of fact. The Court shall fur
nish to either party, at the time, upon request, a statement
in writing of the points of law contained in the charge; or
shall sign, at the time, a statement of such points prepared
and submitted by the counsel of either party.

2.Instmc1:lons should cond'ormtothep1eadtngsandtheiaots.-—.Instructions in civil and criminal cases should be drawn with reference to
the case as made by the evidence. People v. Roberts, 6 Cal. 217.

3. An instruction of the Court to the ‘my must be adapted to the fscb of
the case. People v. Honshell, 10 Cal. 87; v. By:-nee, 30 Cal. 206.

4. Where no question of jurisdiction of urts is raised by the pleadings.
it is error to instruct the jury “that if they believe a certain fact they must
ind for the defendant, as the existence of that fact will establish a want of
jurisdiction over the case," because, as the leadings stand, such a verdict is
a complete bar to another action, to which t e laintif is entitled in another
Court, if the verdict against him was render in pursuance of such an inltructicn. Fhirbanlcs v. Woodhouse, 6 Cal. 433.

-6. Questions of fact must be entirely left to the jury.—Itis error for
the Court to charge the jury as to asapestion of fact, or as to the weight of

evidence. Battersby v. Abbott, 9 Cal. ; 4 Id. 260.
6. The constitutional right of the Court “to state the testimony" to the

jgry would hardly authorize a Judge to express his opinion as to its efect.

v. Katlcman, 8 Cal. 216.
7. An instruction to the jury “ to find for the defendant. as plaintiff has

filed to prove a redemption," is clearl erroneous. The question of redemption was the main point in issue. Batzrsby v. Abbott, 9 Cal. 565.

8. Where, in a suit for the value of horses alleged to have been purchased
by B., it was proven among other things that the horses were purchased for
the use of the Overland Mail line, and the Court instructed the jury that under the evidence, B. was to be considered as sole pro rieter of that line.
Held, that the instruction was wrong, because violating t e constitutional provision prohibiting Judges from charging juries with to matters of
fact; but Held, further, that as no other conclusion could arrived at from
the evidence, the error could not have prejudiced defendant, and ther sfore is

not ground for reversal. Pica v. Stevens, 18 Cal. 376.
9. It is the province of the Ijury, unaided b the Court, to say whether a

3st is proved or otherwise. eople v. Dick, 3 Cal. 213.

10. Questions for the Court should not be left to t1mjury.—It is error
for-the Court to submit to a jury the uestion of the legal effect of written
documents ofered in evidence during e trial. Carpentzbr v. Thirston et a1., 24

Cal. 268.
11. It is for the Court to determine whether letters which have passed between 'es constitute an agreement between them. Luckhart v. Ogden, 30
ou.5-13""

. 12. Whether an agreement between parties amounts to an extension of
time for the performance of a former contract between them, and if so, what
time, are questions of law for a Court and not of fact for a  Id.

13. When a contract is to be performed within a reasonab e time, the question, "What isareasonable time?" is one of law to be determined by the

cent from the facts established. Id. See post, Nos. ea 63, so.

14. Instruction to jury as to admitted faots.—In this case, the answer
being insumcient as a denial of the all tions in the com laint, and the
Court having instructed the jury to dn for plaintifff: Hel , that the instruction was right--no evidence being required on the part of plaintiil’.
Kuhtand v. Sedgwick, 17 Cal. 123.

15. When certain allegations of fact in the complaint are admitted in the
answer, an instruction by the Court to the jury that the admitted facts will be
taken by them as true, and that they will so find for laintid, is not an
instruction to the ju to lind a verdict in favor of plain ' , except as to the

3:10 so admitted. lood v. Light, 31 Cal. 115.

16. Instruction as to the legal efect of evidence.

17. Case where Court below instructed the jury that the facts showed no
valid sale of personal property for want of such change of possession as the
Statute of Frauds re uires; and the Supreme Court sustained the instructions. Fbrd v. C'lu1n3ers, 19 Cal. 143.

la. the instruction should embrace all the testimony.--Where the

plamtiR’s case does not depend alone on the evidence mentioned in the in- .

struction requested by the defendant, it was properly refused. Pearson v.
Bandy-an. 5 Cal. 479. 19. Where a Court instructs a juiyhnpon what state of facts they may nnd
verdict for a party, the instruction ould include all the facts in coutrovers
material to the right of plaintii, or defense of defendant. Gallagher v. W’
Banana, 23 Cal. 331.

20. Facts not proven. should not be assumed.

21. The jury are the exclusive judges of the facts, and it is erroneous for i
the Court to assume, in its instructions to the jury, that a certain fact exists, and ‘

then submit to them the question whether or not it does exist. Cahoon v.
lhrsliall et al., 25 Cal. 198.

22. The facts are to be found by the jury from the evidence, and it is error‘

for the Court in its charge to assume, as proven, a fact which is in issue. CladQJ 1. Center, 30 Cal. 539.

23. Court should give or refuse instructions as asked for.-—The Court
should give or refuse instructions to the jury as asked for, and though the
phraseology may be modified to make it more intelligible. yet the sense must
not be altered. Conrad v. Lindley, 2 Cal. 172; Jamson v. Quivy, 5 Id. 491;
Russell v. Amador. 3 Id. 403.

24. Held, that where an instruction asked b defendant, if given entire, would

have been erroneous. the Court was not boun to separate the concluding clause 4

and give that by itself. and was thereforee right in refusing the instruction.
Smith v. Richmond, 19 Cal. 476.

25. The Court may modify or refuse defective instruotioua.—Counsel
may ropose instructions to the Court. but the Court is not compelled to give
or use them as asked. If. in the opinion of the Judge, the proposed instructions are defective in form of expression, or erroneous in law, he may modify

them in either particular, and give them to the jury in their modiiied form, or

he ms refuse them altogether. Boyce v. California Stage Co., 25 Cal. 470.
26. tructions with a qnaliiication. Lawrence v. Fulton, 19 Cal. 683 ; Id. 476.

27. Condicting instruct:ions.—If the Court gives an instruction, correctly
stating the law, and afterwards another nullifying the nrst, the judgment will
be reversed. People v. Campbell, 30 Cal. 312.

28. Instructions as to abstract questions of law.—It is not error for a
Court to refuse an instruction asked, stating an abstract or general proposition
of law when it has alread so charged the jury as to embrace such proposition,
or so much of it as is app icable to the case. Fairchild v. The California Stage

02;, 13 Cal. 599.

29. Where a party asks an abstract proposition of law, by way of instruction
to a jury, he takes the risk of its being correct in all its parts. Thompson v.
Paige, 16 Cal. 77.

30. The Court should refuse to instruct the ju on abstract questions of law.
Fowler v. Smith, 2 Cal. 39; Id. 387 ; Branger v. hevalier, 9 Id. 353.

31. It is not incumbent on the Court to instruct the jury upon more abstract
questions of law, irrelevant to the case. as serving only to bewilder and mislead
them from the true issue to be determined. Fowler v. Smith. 2 Cal. 45.

32. Whether an instruction, givi the general rule. without qualification, be
proper or not. depends on the facts proof, and the charge would be right or
smug according to the circumstances of the given case. People v. Arnold, 15

482.

33. ‘his Court may refuse to give instructions already substantially
glven.—'l‘he Court may refuse to give an instruction, on the ground that it has
been alread substantially given by the Court. Belden v. Henriquez. 8 Cal. 87 .

34. If an ustruction berefused, for the reason that it has been already given,
the reason of the refusal should be stated so as not to mislead the jury. People 1:. Ramirez. 13 CaL 172.

35. Where equivalent instructions are given and refused, the Court should X

place its refusal on’ the ground that equivalent instructions were given. Unless
this is done, the jury may be misled. People v. Harley. 8 Cal. 390.

38. A correct charge by the Court upon a matter in issue, cures a refusal by
the Court to give a correct char upon the same point asked by one of the
parties. Davis v. Parley, 30 C . 630.

37. It is not error to refuse an instruction asked when the same has already
been given in substance. People v. King, 27 Cal. .609.

38. If the Court has already given the law correctly to the jury upon a given

int, it is not error to refuse a second instruction upon the same point.

eople v. Williams, 32 Cal. 280.

39. Instructions are properly refused when not warranted by the pleadings. Thompson v..1'.ee, 8 Cal. 275; or, _ '

. When there is no evidence on the question of fact embraced in it.
People v. Hurley, 8 Cal. 390; Tompkins v. Mahoney, 32 Cal. 231; or, _

4 . When there is only such slight evidence as is plainly insufncient to
establish it, it is pro for the Court to instruct the jury to that efect, and
withdraw the point rom their consideraton. Selden v. Cashman, 20 Cal. 56; or,

42. Which assumes a certain fact to exist, respecting which evidence
has been introduced before the jury. Preston v. _Keys. 23 Cal. 193. _ T _

43. It is not error in a Court to refuse to give to the jury an instruction
which embraces a question which came properly before the Court, and not
before the jury. Branger cf: Driard v. Chevalier, 9 Cal. 353.

44. A Court is not bound to give an instmction erroneous on its face, even
thogglh gs error be insumcient to reverse the judgment. Visher v. Webster,
13 '. .

45. No instructions should be given to a jury which are not predicated upon
some theory. logically deducible from at least some portion of the testimony.
People v._ Sanchez, 24 Cal. 28. _

46. It 18 not error for the Court to refuse to instruct a jury, “that where two
innocent parties must suffer, that part who had been the cause of auother’s
loss must lose.” Davis v. Davis. 26 Ca . 44.

47. Erroneoue instruction, when it will be disregardedw-See Pica v.
8tever:’,9 18 Cal. 376; Broolcs v. Crosby, 22 Cal. 42; presumedto be erroneous, 24
W0 0 ..

48. Brroneous admission of evidence cured by instruction

49. If the Court errs in the admission of testimony. during the trial, but
afterwards instructs the jury to disregard such testimony. the error is not sumcient to entitle the party objecting to the testimony to a new trial. Uicioa
Water Cb. v. Orary. 25 Cal. 507.

60. Case fairly submitted will not be disturbed.——Where the charge of
the Court, taken as a whole. fairly submitted the case to the jury, the judgment will not be disturbed because some instructions were refused. which could

properly have been given, or that some of those given are subject to verbal
criticism. Brooks v. Crosby, 22 Cal. 42.

51. Ilrroneoue rulings.-—A jury should make up their verdict from the
facts according to the law as given to them by the Court; and it seems that it
is improper for a Court to charge the jury “ to take into consideration all of
the facts and do equal justice between the parties, ” inasmuch as an instruction
so general in its terms may mislead them. Per Hssrmos, C. J. Keiiy v.
(Juan ham, 1 Cal. 365.

62. a Court has no ri ht to cha e the in regard to conclusions of
fact. Treadwelletal. v. ellseta1., 4rga1. 260?ury

53._ Instructions, when to be handed to the court-.—A rule of Court

uiriug counsel to me and submit to the Court any instructions they may

er, before the argument is closed, to the jury, does not 0 to where the
cause is submitted without argument. Tinney v. Endicott, 5 al. 102.

54. If there is a rule of the District Court requiring instructions to be
handed to the Judge by a certain time in the progress of the trial, it is not
error for the Court to refuse to ‘vs instructions not handed to the Judge in
hme. Waldic v. Dali, 29 Cal. 

[Inst-uetiemsmuatbepresentedto theoourtdireetlyaftertheeloeeofthe
evidence arlid before any argument is madetothejury. Bule XLIVfor Ben

55. In-izucuom aakedand refueed.ehau.'ld notvberead in thehearb
lng dthe jury. Waldtcv.Doll,29Cal.655.

56. Judge may read from memoranda.—It is not error for the Judge,
in stah'ng the testimony to the ' , to read a memorandum of testimony
taken by another person, insteadud? using his own minutes or making the
statement from recollection. People v. Boggs, 20 Cal. 432.

57. Action: of ejectment.-—In an action for the recovery of a portion of
a tract of land, both parties relying on possession, and the defendant proving
a prior possession by actual enclosure of the entire tract, it was error to instruct the jurythat the defendants possession was not valid. unless in conformity with the Pre-emption Laws of the United States, or the Possessory
laws of this State‘. Bradshaw v. Treat. 6 Cal. 172. .

58. When a rivate survey is admitted as a diagram, but not as evidence,

the Court sho d clearl explain to the ' the precise urpose and effect of
its admission. Rose v.yDavis, 11 Cal. 1%.” P

59. An instruction to the jury that they must take the grant and map together, and if they believe the land in controversy within the grant, as
explained by the ma , they will iind for the plaintiff. Held, to be correct.
Ferris v. Coover, 10 al. 589.

60. It is error for the Court to instruct the 'ury that before the plaintifff can
recover, the evidence must s citlcally dx and establish the eastern boundary
line of the t under whic pluintid claimed, when it appears from the evidence that e land in controversy is within that bound line. The precise
location of that line is of no moment. Seaward v. Mala , 15 Cal. 307. _

61. Where the defendants deny ownership in plaintiff, and set up ownership in themselves, it is not error to instruct the jury that the only question
for them to determine is as to who has the better right to the premises. Such
instruction does not im 1y that plaintids can recover, even if they do not
establish, prima facie. a gtle. ius v. 00 ee, 14 Cal. 91.

6;’. In ejectment, where the tit is of record and wholly documentary, the
Court may declare the effect of e ~1pers offered by plaintifff, and instruct
the jury that plaintiff has made out '3 title, if they believe the land to be
within the boundaries of a grant under which plaintifff claims. Mcllarvey v.
Liltle, 15 Cal. 27.

63. In ejectment, the Court having admitted in evidence, as sumciently
proven, the means conveyances through which plaintifff traced title-—the deendanta being more tre assers-—charged the jury “ that the written evidence of title, together wi the admis=ions of the parties, authorized them to
mid for the plaintid’, since the execution of the papers had been passed upon
by the Court." Held, to be no olgiection to this instruction, that it does not
leave the execution and delivery 0 the conveyances to the jury; that the ufhciency of their execution was a matter addressed solel to the Court, and
that-—no question being raised during the trial as to t eir delivery and no
evidence being offered to rebut the presumption of delivery arising from their
possession by plaintih‘—-the instruction amounted only to an announcement
of the law as to the efect of the oonve ances and of the admissions of the
defendants. Stark v. Barrett, 15 Cal. 36 . , , p

64. Held, further, that if it had been objected to this instruction that it
took from the jury the question of damages for rents and proiits, the objection would have been tenable; but that, no such objection bei taken, the

pgint must be regarded as waived, although the jury awarded an _ damages.

65. Ejectment for land as a homestead. The husband alone had executed a
deed to defendant There was evidence tending to show that the premises were
never occupied by plaintifffs with the intention of making them the homestead,
and also evidence tending to prove an abandonment of their occupancy, and 1
residence on other property as that of the family. The Court below submitted
a series of questions to the jury fora special verdict, the first of which was:
Did the plaintim ever dedicate and set apart the real estate described in the‘

complaint as a homestead, by living u on it with the intention to so dedicate it I
and told the jury if they answered is question in the n tive. the answer
would constitute their entire verdict; but if they found in e amrmative, they
should then proceed to answer the other questions. Held, that such direction
was proper, as a negative answer to this question was conclusive against a recovery, and that such directions are convenient in practice and no abuse of discretion. Broadus v. Nelson, 16 Cal. 79.

66. Where, in ejectment, plaintifff asked the Court to instruct the jury “ that
lapse of time does not constitute an abandonment, but that it consists in a voluntary surrender and giving u of the thing by the owner, because he no longer
desires to possess it, or there r to assert any right or dominion over it ;” and
the instruction was given with the qualification that lapse of time constitutes
the material element in the question of abandonment: Held. that it would be
more exact to say that lapse of time constitutes a material element to be considered in deciding the question of abandonment. but that the instruction given
aindctlie qualification are, in connection, the same in effect. Lawrence v. Fhlon,

9 a . 683..

67. Actions concerning mining claims.—In an action for diverting water
from laintid‘ ’s ditch——plaintiR‘ and defendants both  ditches supplied
from he same stream, the plaintifff 's rights being rior an paramount-do
fendnnts asked the Court to instruct the jury that ' defendants had brought
water from foreign sources and emptied it into the stream with the intention
of taking it out again, they had the right to divert the quantity thus emptied
in, less such amount as might be lost by evaporation and other like causes.
The instruction was given with the explanation that they could not so reclaim
the water as to diminish the quantity to which plaintifff was entitled as print
locator. Held, that the explanation was proper, the concluding words o the
instruction  too general and indefinite. Burnett v. Whitestdea. 16 Cal. 35.

68. In an action for diverting water from the plaintifff ‘a ditch, and where
both parties claimed, in part, the waters of the same stream: Held, that the
following instruction was properly given by the Court to the jury: “That
defendant is not liable for any deficiency of water in plaintifff ‘a ditch, unless
he was diverting from Rabb1tt's creek more water than he was entitled to at
the precise time that such dedciency existed." Brown v. Smith, 10 Cal. 508.

69. Also, where the Court instructed the jury that if they believed that defendant's ditch was so nlled with tailings, during the period of the alleged
injury, that it was incapable of directing the waters of the creek, then plaintil
cannot recover. Id.

70. In an action for a minin claim, when the defendants asked for an instruction to the jury “ that if e tplaintid had abandoned the claim, and did
not intend to return and work it before the commencement of the suit," and
the Court vs the instruction “subject to the seventeenth section of the
Statute of ' itationsz” Held, that the qualidcation to the instruction was
error. Davis v. Butler, 6 Cal. 510.

71. Where the Court instructed the ury, in such action. that “where an
abandonment is sought to be establish by the act of the party, the intention
not to return, his abandonment is as complete, if it exist for a minute or a
second, as though it continued for years; but if he left with the intention of
returning, he might do so at any time within five years, provided there was
no mle, usage or custom of miners of such a notorious character as to raise a
gresumption of an intention to abandon:” Held, that the aquestion of abanonment was fairly left to the jury. Waring v. Crow, 11 C . 366.

72. In suit for damages for an entry upon mi ' claims, and for ‘perpetual
injunction, etc.: Held, that it was error for the urt below to c arge the
jury that if they believed no injury or damage was done by defendants to
plaintiffs, they would find for defendants; that such charge was calculated to
mislead, inasmuch as the law presumes damages from a trespass, and under
the charge the jury might have decided the case upon this want of £1-oof of

laintiR's damages, instead of absence of proof of their title. 7.

ricotl, 17 Cal. 37.

73. In an action to recover possession of a mining claim, where the defense
is an abandonment of the claun by the plaintifff, the judgment roll in action

hroughtby the laintif again‘ st third parties to recover possession of the
same ground, anid in which plaintifff recovered judgment, is admissible in evigfnoczfoaashut the presumption of abandonment. Richardson v. McNulty,

74. In such case the Court should guard the jury by proper instructions
from giving the ju ent any weight as evidence, except upon the question
of abandonment. d.

75. If an erroneous instruction is given to a jury, the judgment will be reversed, unless it appear from the record that the appellant was not prejudiced thereby. I .

76. Various actions afeotlng real estate.—It was error for the Court to
instruct the  “ that where a person injuriously slanders the title of another, malice is presumed.” It was also error to instruct them that fraud could
not be presumed, but may be established by circumstances, but not of a light
character; the circumstances must be of a most conclusive nature. McDaniel
v. Baca, 2 Cal. 326.

77. Where the complaint does not charge the mortgagee in possession with
negligence or improper conduct in the leasing the mo ed premises, but
"requires him to account for the rents he actuall receiv it is proper in the
Court to refuse to instruct the jug that he might have leased the prcm
difaently, and to charge him wi what he might have received if so 1 .
Benliavn v. Rome, 2 Cal. 387.

78. Inanacdonforuseand ‘occupation, the Court was asked to instruct
the jury, “ that it was necessary, to enable the plaintifff to recover, that he
should show that the defendant used and occupied the remises _by the ermission of the plaintiff, and if the jury believed the de endant used an occupied the same ' the will of the plaintih‘, that they must find a verdict
for die defendant, ' which the Court refused. Held, that in this the Court
an-ed. Sampson v. Shaejcr, 3 Cal. 196.

79. In an action for injuries to a garden, occasioned by the breaking of a
reservoir, the Court instructed the jury that, to entitle laintifi‘ to recover, it
must appear that the breaking of the reservoir resulted om the oss neglimn o defendants; and then proceeded to egilain that defen ts must

e taken the same care of their reservoir, an of the water in it, as they
would have done, being prudent men, had the garden of plaintih‘ been their
property; and that otherwise, they had been ‘guilty of gross negligence, and
were liable in damages: Held, that although e instructions without the exEllanation was wrong, still with the explanation it was right, and could not

ve misled the jury. Tbdd v. Cochell, 17 Cal. 97.

80. Actions involving questions of fraud.—Where there is no di ute
as to the facts, and the law upon those facts declares a transaction frau ent,
it is not a uestion for the jury. The Court, insuch case, may direct the jury
how to n or set aside the verdict, if they find to the contrary. Ohemry v.
Palmer, 6 Cal. 119.

81. It waserrorin the Court below to refuse to instructthe jury thatif the
believed the receipt, specified in the deed for $3,000, was obtained by frau ,
they were authorized to hnd for the defendant. N 0 case in the history of
jurisprudence will sustain that ruling. McDaniel v. Baca, 2 Cal. 326.

82. Upon the issue of fraud, in an a lication of an insolvent to be discharged from his debts, where it was alleggg that the a licant had made and
recorded a sham deed of his prope shortly before application, which
mg was not included in his sc edule: Held, that it was error for the

to instruct the jury, “ that to find the charge of fraud sustained, they
must believe the deed made with the intent to defeat, hinder, or dela creditors, snd to have been actually delivered to the grantees; that roof 0 record
was no proof of delivery." etc. The fraud is as complete wi out the delivcry as with it. Fisk v. His Creditors, l2 Cal. 28L

83. It is errorto instructs jury, inacivilcase of imputed fraud, that if

‘they have s doubtof the guilt of the party c they must dad in his

favor. Issues of fact in civilcases are determined y a preponderance of teatimony, andthisrulea liesaswelltocasesof fraud astoanyother. Ford
iv. Chambers, 19 Cal. Hip

-84. In an action where one of the issues raised is a questionof fraudulent
intent in the sale or dispmition of property. the fraudulent intent is a nestion of fact alone, to be left solely to the determination of the jury. an in
such cases it is error for the Court to instruct the jury as to the eifect or force
ofstsheqevidence élpon the qgileatiog of frspdulent intent. Id. th to

. _he.Cons tutionpro ' ‘ts udges rom charging juries wi respect
matters of fact, except to state the testimony and declare the law resulting
from the evidence. Id.

’ 86. Actions by and against administrat:ors.——In suit by an administrator against defendant, for conversion of the property of the estate, under the
one hundred and sixteenth section of the statute to regulate the settlement
efestutes, the proof, as to the right, or title, or _possession, of plaintifff, and
the taking or interference by defendant, bein conflicting, it is error to instructthejurythatameredemand on the de endant, andrefusal hyhim to
the property, charge him. .with a conversion. Beelcman v. McKay,
a . .

87. In an actionagainstanadministrator, thecourtshould, 
the jury as to the statute time within which the action could be brought when
the claim is rejected. Benedict v. Hoogin, 2 Cal. 385.

87. It is error in the Court to refuse to instruct the jury in accordance with
the provisions of the one hundred and thirty-iifth section of the Act to Begulate the Settlements of the Estates of Deceased Persons, when requested so
to do, and the evidence shows that it is proper and relevant. Id.

88. Various causes of action.»-—The action was against surgeons “ for
malpractice, by which amputation became necessary." The Court charged;
erroneously, “ that if the believe from the evidence that the defendants were
guilty of negli ence, care essness, or inattention, in their treatment of plaintiE'e wound<, y which he was caused great bodily pain and sufering, the
plaintin‘ is entitled to a verdict.” The action was not brought for bodily pain
or suifering. Moor v. Thad, 3 Cal. 190.
90. Where the vendee of goods is to payapart of the purchase money to the
creditors of his vendor, this creates no trust in the goods sold in favor of
such creditors: thereforee, in an action to recover snc goods, the following
instruction to the jury is improper: “ If the jury believe, from the testimony,
that the cement between Stevens & Markling, the vendors of the ' '
was that e plaintifff was to pay certain of the debts of his vendors out of
said goods, then that such sale, as against the other creditors of the vendors,
is fraudulent” Wellington v. Sedgwiclc, 12 Cal. 469.
91. Where defendants were sued as factors, although no claims for commissions, etc., were set out as a counterclaim, it was error for the Court to charge
the j that it was for them exclusively to say what amount the pliintin‘ was
entitl to recover, and that the defendants were liable for the value of the
goods at the time of demand. Labert v. Ohauviteau, 3 Cal. 463.
9:. In an action on guaranty, though it is error in terms to c e the jury
‘if they find for the plamtim to assess as damages the amount of penalty
tired in the guaranty, yet if the plaintifffs damage, if an , must exceed the
Eexalty, the direction must be regarded as limiting the ve ‘ct, and the defent is not injured by the instruction. Jones v. Post, 8 Cal. 102.
93. Where in a suit on an account stated, the only evidence was that of a witness, who. said defendant, on presentation of the account. admitted it to be
correct, and promised to pay it, and the Court charged the jury that, if they believed the testimony of the witness, the must and for the plaintifff the amount
claimed. andthey so found: Held, that e instruction did not prejudice defend-ant, as but one. verdict could have. been rendered under the evidence. Zsrry
. v. Stcldes, 13 Cal. 427.
94. Plaintit sues on a contract of sale of cattle. to he delivered within “ three
weeks, at the furthest ”—the consideration money being paid -adding also the
common counts. Complaint avers the breach of the agreement by failure to de« liver the cattle. Held, that it. was not error in the Court below instructing the
jury. that if defendant did not have the cattle ready for delivery at the time
Jnentioued in the contract, they should lind for tlaintiii‘ ; and in assessing damsges, they might iind the pure ass money, wi ten per cent. interest, orthe

glut market price of the cattle to.the time of trial. Mailer v. Riley, 17 Cal.

93. It is not error to instruct a jury that. if sufficient time had elapsed between
the dealings of the plaintiffs with theold firm, and their subsequent transactions

with the new firm, to put a reasonable man on inquiry, they might be treated
as new dealers. Iheadwell v. -Wells, 4 Cal. 260.

§ 166. The jury may decide in Court, or retire for deliberation.
Duty of ajicer in charge.

After hearing the charge, the jury-may either decide in
Court, or retire for deliberation. If ‘theyeretire, they shall
be kept together in a room provided for them, or some other
convenient place, under the charge of one or more officers,
until they agree upon their -verdict, or are discharged by the
Court. The officer shall, to the utmostof his ability, keep
the jury together, separate from otherpersons ; he shall not
suffer any communication to be made to them, or make any
himself, unless by order of thn Court. except to ask them if
they have agreed upo°n their verdict ; and he shall not, before the verdict is rendered, communicate to any person the
state of their deliberations, or the verdict agreed upon.

§ 167. Jury may take with them certain papers.

Upon retiring for deliberation the jury may take with them
all papers (except depositions), which have been received as
evidence in the cause, or copies of such papers as ought not,
in the opinion of the Court, to be taken from the person having them in possession: and they may also take with them
notes of the testimony, or other proceedings on the trial, taken

by themselves, or any of them ; but none taken by any other
person. ‘

§ 168. May come into Court for further z'n.structions.

After the jury have retired for deliberation, if there be a
disagreement between them as to any part of the testimony,

or if they desire to be informed of any point of law arising
in the cause, they may require the officer to conduct them
into Court. Upon their being brought into Court, the~information required shall be given in the presence of, or after

notice to, the parties or counsel.

1. After the jury have once retired, it is error to allow them to. come into
Court and receive instruction in the absence or the parties or their counsel.
Rcdman v. Yontz. .6 Cal. 148.

2. such instructions will be considered important, if the contrary is not
shown, from the very fact that the jury have asked for them. Id.

§ 169. When prevented from giving verdict, the cause may be
again tried.

In all cases where a jury are discharged, or prevented from
giving a verdict, by reason of accident or other cause, during

the progress of the trial, or after the cause is submitted to
them, the action may be again tried immediately, or at a future

time, as the Court shall’ direct.

§ 170. While jury are absent, Court may adjourn from time
to time. Sealed verdict. Final adjournment discharges the jury.

While the jury are absent, the Court may adjourn from
time to time, in respect to other business; but it shall never»
theless be deemed open for every purpose connected with the
cause submitted to the jury, until a verdict is rendered, or the
jury discharged. The Court may direct the jury to bring in
a sealed verdict, at the opening of the Court, in case of an

agreement during a recess, or adjouriiment for the day. A
final adjournment of the Court for the term shall discharge

the jury.

1. Where a jury are instructed to bring in a sealed verdict. and they retire,
and after agreein u on the verdict, seal it up, and give it to the officer in
cha of them— e c erk being absent—-and request him to give it to the clerk,
whic is done; and after the meeting of the Court the following morning, the
verdict is opened in the presence of the jury, and read by the clerk, without
exception : Held, that this 18 not an error sumcient to warrant a new trial. The

ossession by such officer left the verdict as much in the possession of the
urt imelf as if it had been directly delivered to the clerk. Paige v. 0’Neal,

12 Cal. 483.
2. Nor will it make any dimerence when the names of the jurors were not

called and they were not asked whether they had agreed upon their verdict,
where the parties were present, and took no exception at the time ; and where
it is not pretended that the verdict entered differs from the one sealed up, or
that the result is in any respect affected by the omission. Id.

3. The opportunities of tampering with jurors after separation. are so numerous, and in important cases the temptation is so great, and the ability of detection so slight, as to make it a matter of grave doubt whether sound policy does
not require an adherence to the verdict as sealed, even as against a subsequent
dissent of one or more of the jurors. Id.

§ 171. The jury having agreed upon a verdict, shall declare
the same.

When the jury have agreed upon their verdict, they shall
be conducted into Court by the officer having them in charge.
Their names shall then be called, and they shall be asked by
the Court, or the clerk, whether they have agreed upon their
verdict; and if the foreman answer in the atiirmative, they
shall, on being required, declare the same.

1. Thsrelsuorighttopollajurylnaolvil case after theverdlct has been
recorded; not before, unless there are circumstances of suspicion ‘attending the
delivery of the verdict. Blunt v. Pats, 20 Cal. 69.

2. But in all cases it rests with the discretion of the Court. Id.

3. Thejury, aetlugas abody. speak through their foreman, and his assent is
cit)-inclusive upon all, unless a disagreement to the record he expressed at the

e. Id.

Lltshallnotbe tocallthe laintiibeforereoeivingtheverdlct
ofthejury.  No. , 8anFranciscoCounty.

§ 172. Informal or‘z'nsujicient verdict may be corrected under
advice of the Court.

If the verdict be informal, or insuilicient, in not covering
the whole issue or issues submitted, the verdict may be corrected by the jury, under the advice of the Court, or the
jury may be again sent out.

1. It is competent for the Court to instruct the jury to amend their verdict

utofonmnotafectingthesnbstance andins rnannerastobeunexceptionable in law. Truebody v. Jaeobsori, 2 ca. aiii.

2. Thscourtmay amendthe verdict ofajurywhenitisdefectiveinsomething merely formal, and which has no connection with the merits of the

ca , wh re the amendmentinno the ts of th ' .
I’s?:in.s v.eWilsoa, 3 Cal. 139. respect ohms“ dsh 0 put“

3. Theverdictma conformtotheissues. If the Court, insteadofha '
the verdict by the jury, attempt to correct it b the judgment, an
go nd the verdict, it is error. Ross v. Austill, 2 Cal. 92.

L general objection to the form of a verdict, without any ification of
the particulars in which it is alle ed to be defective, will not considered.
Hahonsy v. Van Winkle, 21 Cal. 2.

5 17 3. Verdict shall be recorded in full in the minutes.

When the verdict is given, and is not informal or incumcient, the clerk shall immediately record it, in full, in the
minutes, and shall read it to the jury, and inquire of them
whether it be their verdict. If any juror disagree, the jury
shall be again sent out; but if no disagreement be expressed,
the verdict shall be complete, and the jury shall be discharged from the case.

1.'l'heCourtshal1directtheverdictofa toberecordedas rend

it. That should be treated as the verdict w oh the ' actuall ‘
zoodaa v. J{cDona1d, 4 Cal. 297. Jury y bung‘

are an informal verdict is received and recorded by consent of the

 judgment in form is afterwards entered thereon, on appeal the ,

tywillbedrsregarded. Treadtoellv. Wet1s,4C‘-al. 263.
3. Before a verdict is recorded it should be declared by the foreman of the

jury, or, if sealed, read by the clerk, so that the ‘es may he distinctly informed of its puamrt. It is irregular to record e verdict before it is thus '

he noh'ced on appeal. Blum v. Pate, 20 Cal. 69.

e irregularity mustbe objected to at the time, or it will not '

4. Assent to a recorded verdict, expressed by the foreman, is conclusive '

upornallthe jury, unlessadisagreement is expressed at thetime. Id.
5. Poningtury.-—Inacivilactlonitisnotamattsrofright,whlch either

partymay claim, tohave ajurypolled. Before the verdict is recorded, it is a
matterrestinginthediscretien of the Oourttoallow the proceeding; it will
gnerally be allowed where circumstance of suspicion attend the delivery of
e verdict. After -the verdict is recorded the proceeding is never allowed.
Withtheassentof thejurytotheverdict as recorded, their function with
tothecaseoeasemndthekialiscloaed. Id. ~ °
. Bee further, §178, post.

 

TITLE XV.

THE ‘VERDICT.

Sharron 174. General and special verdicts defined.
175. When general or ° verdicts ma be rendered.
176. Verdict in actions or the recovery 0 money, or on establis ' counterclaim.
17?. Verdict actionsfortherecoveryofspecincpsreonal

property.
173. Entry or verdict.

§ 174. General and special verdict: dglned.

The verdict of a jury is either general or special. A general verdict is that by which they pronounce generally upon
all or any of the issues, either in favor of the plaintifff or
defendant; a special verdict is that by which the jury find
the facts only, leaving the judgment to the Court. The
special verdict shall present the conclusions of ‘ fact as established by the evidence, and not the evidence to prove them;
and those conclusions of fact shall be so presented, as that
nothing shall remain to the Court but to draw from them
conclusions of law.

N. Y. Code, $260.

1. General Verdiot.—A general verdict will conclude all pu-ties who do not
answer separately or demand separate verdicts. Winona v. (flu-isty, 4 Cal.
70; Ellis v. Jeans, 7 Id. 409.

2. The plaintih‘ in ejectment see one or more defendants, and they
may answer separately, or dem separate verdicts; unless they do so,
however, they will be concluded by a general verdict. Wine-ns v. Ola-lay,

4 Cal. 70.
3. In ejectment, the verdict may be joint against seveial dtgendgflts, withoe tract,w one ey e a 'oint

out spec their respective lots in a wh
answer 3151? contains no averment as to the particular portion of d

occuiedbyeach,noproofbein Reredonth int,n damagesbexnE'
 and the defendants beiggoin possessioh.poMcGa?-vey v. Little, 1

ifs’ intverdictagainstth def dents and deful de........,. *2. ......... .. ........ .3 ...°.:‘........."*"....°*‘"‘*. ..,.u :.::: ...

31$! demanded. Andersonv. Parker, 6 Cal. 197; Elliev. Jeans, 7

Elnsctiontorecover possessionofland,thejury rendered thefolo
lowingverdict: “We,the' int.hiscause,dndaverdict-infavorofthe
‘ uh‘ defendants, or the possession of the ‘see described
in the complaint herein, and the sum of one hundred an sixty-live dollars
dnmagu.”  to be  a_ general  covering
issues, andthatitdoesnothmitthedndingto particularfactorsingla
issue. Hidloav. Reed,25 Cal.491. 8eeLeeeev. larlc, 28 Cal.98, and‘auhoritiestherecited. 8eea.nte§144, neteNos. 88,39, 40.

6. Thejuryundersgeneralsubmissionfound “averdictinfavorofplaintiffs, with one dollar damages." Held, that the verdict decided the question
of title in favor of plaiiitifs, and that upon it they were entitled to a decree
 y enjoining defendants from working pen the ground claimed in

complaint; that this equitable relief was a matter of right, the denial of
which by the District Court was error. He hlia v. Kelly, 22 Cal. 211.

7. The Court, having instructed the jury t, if they found that aintifs were entitled to the mining ground, they must find a verdict for 1,000

es upon the admission of the answer: Held, that because the jury
bi-oug t in a verdict for one instead of one thousand dollars damages, it
was not thereforee to be concluded. in direct opposition to their general
verdict, thsttheydid notdndthe title inthe plaintiff. The damages being
admitted by the pleadings, were not in issue, and the verdict in that respect
was  Id.

8. Special verdlot.—A special verdict settles the facts, and the Court by
its judgment pronounces the conclusion of law upon the facts found. If the
Court one in this r the error may be reviewed without any motion for
new trial; but the ' t to correct the verdict does not depend upon the judg:

' sta

ment, and the steps necessary for that purpose must be taken within the
utory time. Alleav. Hill, 16 Cal. 117.

9. On the rendition of a special verdict, the trial is terminated, and notice
of motion for new trial must be given within the statutory time, or the probaeed upon such notice will be disregarded. Id.
10. in whose favor a judgment is rendered on a special verdict
must move ’ or a new trial, if he is not satisfied with the verdict, as the latter
mint otherwise be conclusive upon the facts in the appellate Court. Garwood
v. S’ 8 Cal. 108; Dug v. Fisher, 16 Id. 380.

11. ejectment for in tact of land, plaintifff claiming under a deed from,
one McDowell, the case turned upon the question whether laintiff, at the
time of his ‘fur:-Jiase from McDowell, had notice of a prior ver sale of the
land from cDowell to defendant. The jury, to whom this question had been
submitted in ’ lissues, returned a verdict, “ If possession was notice he
had." Izheldhmt pus finding is insitihdicient bgcause eqtiilivochilillslntiither finding
direct!‘ e _ o possession,nor etimeo it,nor e ‘ o possession.
Woods»: v. Mcduiie, 17 Cal. 298.

12. Where the point on which the case hinged was whether Kappelman at
00., who employed plaintiffto do work, acted as contractors in individual
a 'ty, or as agents of defendants. and the jury found a special verdict that
" work and labor done by laintif in the construction of the dam was done
at the instance and request Kappelman & 00., who were the agents of the
corporation defendant: ’ Held, that this verdict does not support a judgment
for laintid’, because it does not show in and of itself a legal conclusion of
licb& , not dnding whether K. & Co. acted as agents or otherwise. Gaclield
v. E T. M. Water 00., 17 Cal. 519.

11 A  verdict must, under section one hunted and seventy-four‘ of
the Practice Act, mid the facts expressly and specially, and not generally or
 Brena v. Doyle, 19 Cal. 101. v

4. ere special issues are submitted to 8 3111?. they should include all
quutiomoffaetnimdbythepludiggemdnecesnqhdehrminethemse,andshouldbe ratel anddistin ystated,sothateschquestionshould
relatetoonlyone’ Iuem'zW'¢ter0o.v.Fleteher,380al.482. ‘15. In an action to recover a quartz ledge, when the defendants deny aines.’ title and ouster, and set up title in themselves to a part only of the 1 e. as
special verdict awarding defendants that portion of the ledge they claim without a general verdict, ' accepted plaintits, is a finding in favor of defendmd iii? macceptancetin“ "‘°‘?.,‘°.;.°°"°n;m.a r 'spea'L°:1"' 31111? ll’ 9£ich def d1. e e ‘ea 've'cw' 'ves en
ant part of the property in digpute without a finding on the othe? issues, is a
withdrawal from the consideration of the Court of all that property in relaion to which there is no nnding. Id.
» 17. A s verdict that defendants are entitled to all of a quartz ledge.

between notices, being three hundred and ntty feet, more or less, gives
defendants all between the notices, if more than three hundred and fifty feet.

Id. See post, 5 175.

18. Separate verdictI.—Where several defendants in ejectinent unite in
an answer amounting to a general denial, a joint verdict is proper, though the
answer concludes with a Kaye: for separate verdicts. To entitle defendants
to to verdicts, they ould set forth with specific description the gels
whic they severally occupy or claim, and thus direct the attention of ' tiff
to the course of defense upon which they will separately insist. P v.
Ely, 19 Cal. 28. See further, § 144, No. 36.

19. Verdict conclusive upon facts found.—-The  of a juiéy, or
oftheCourtbelow,actingasa ,uponaquestionoffact,isnnalan conclusive. Perry v. Cochran, 1 Cal. 80; Duf v. Fisher, 15 Id. 380.

20. A general verdict does not operate as an esto pel, except as to such
matters as were necessarily considered and determinedgiy the jury. A verdict
is never conclusive u n immaterial or collateral issues. J{cDonald v. Bear

{liver and Auburn ater and Mining 00., 15 Cal. 145.
21. Where a verdict is general, its effects will be limited to such issues u

necessarily controlled the action of the jury. Kidd v. Laird, 15 Cal. 161.
22. A verdict found on any fact or title distinctly put in issue, is conclusive

in another action between the same parties, or their privies, in respect of the

same fact or title. Id.
23. But the fact or title must be material and relevant; must be distinctly

in issue; must be tried by the jury, and constitute the basis of their verdict;

and,  specially found, must have been necessarily passed upon by the
jury. .

2L If the statement discloses no refusal on the part of the Judge of the
Court below to charge the jury on any matter submitted, nor is any erroneous
charge assigned as error, the verdict of the 'ury must be considered as having
settledallt efactsof the case. Georgov. w,1Cal. 364.

25. Theverdictof a uryin a chance case is onlyadvisorytotheChan. cellor of this Court. ill v. Saunders, 8 281.

In cases,theCourtbelw ' the rdict fa .
Goodev.8m' ,13Gal.84. 0 maydmmgmi W O jury

26. Bf!’ectdverdiotondefectainpleadlngr—The generalrule as to
the effect of a verdict upon defects in pleading is, that whatever facts are not
expressly stated, which are so essential to a recovery that without 1' of
them on the trial a verdict could not have been rendered under the ' ‘on
of the Court, then the want of the express statement is cured by the verdict,

rovided the complaint contains terms sumciently general to comprehend the
gate, in fair and reasonable intendment. Gamerv. Marshall, 9 Cal. 268.

27. A defective allegation of a fact may be cured by default or verdict, but
16:3 sg5t‘.he_entire absence of any allegation whatsoever. Hentech v. Porter, 10

28. Where a declaration states a condition precedent, and fails to ever performance, the defect mustbe urgedon demurrer; it comes too late alter verdict. Happe_v. Stout, 2Cal.461.
29.Anomisaiontcallegedeliv ,inan action on abond,canbe taken

advan e of only on demurrer, a not after verdict. Garcia v. Satruslegui,
4 Cal. ; Wilkins v. Stridger, 22 Cal. 235.
30. Defects in an indictment are not cured byvei-di,ct,but inaybetakeu

advantage of b motion in arrest of ju ent. People v. Wallace, 9 Cal; 32.
31. A verined complaint, which in stggglg a special demand essential to the
cause of actio contains only the general averment that “ defendants, tho

often requ have refused,” etc., is sufficient in this respect, unless s-I

murred to for want of certainty. If not demurred to, the defective averment
‘m cured by verdict and judgment, and the objections cannot be raised for the
gas“ the appellate Court. Mills v. Barney, 22 Cal. 240; Jones v. Block,

32. When a complaint contains the substantial averments of a cause of
action, though defective in form and certainty, the defect is cured by a verdict
or default. People v. Raine, 23 Cal, 128.

33. Jurors cannot impeach their own verdiot.—It is a settled rule,
founded upon considerations of necessary policy, that the testimony of a jugman cannot be received to defeat his own verdict; and in a criminal case, e
affidavit of a 'uryman, made after verdict, that he had formed and expressed
an inion ore the trial, cannot be received on a motion for a new trial.
1&5: v. Balcer, 1 Cal. 403.

34. The affidavit of jurors will not be allowed to contradict their verdict.
Oawo v. Gill, 5 Cal. 40; Ambsy v. Diclclwuse, 4Id. 102; Wilsonv.Ber3mnn, 5
Id. 44. See Boyce v. Cal. Sta 00., 25 Id. 475, and authorities there ted.

I [Exeeption, where the ve ‘ct is the result of “ a resort to the determination of chance." See second sub., Q 193$? I

35. It seems that the testimony of the ' is com tent to disclose what
transpires in the juryoroom. Wilson v. Be:-rnyvnan. 5 Ca . 44. ~

36. Amdavits of counsel and others on ' ormation respecting the misbehsvior of the jury while considering their verdict, are not admissible to
im 9 the verdict People v. Hartung, 8 Abb. 132; People v. Wilson, Id. 137.
I . The a te Court must infer in favor of the verdict below, unless
error is clear y manifest. Allenv. Phelps, 4 Cal. 259.

38. Informal and insumcient verdict may be corrected. See § 172, and
notes

39. Grounds upon which a verdict will be set aside. See § 193, and notes.

40. Court may impose oond:ltlons.—Courts may impose, as a condition
of allowing a verdict to stand in other respects, the remission of damages in
cases where there was no evidence on the subject of damages, or where the
evidence was entirely incompetent, or where the Court difers from the jury
as to the elfect of the evidence. But where, as in this case, the verdict for
the es was based entirely upon an admission by the record, it must
stand. admission, if good for an ‘mg, is good for the entire amount
specined. Id. Patterson v. Ely, 19 al. 28.

A chance verdict. what is.—8ee Boyce v. Gal. Stage 00., 25 Cal. 475, and
authorities there cited.

41. Generally.—A stipulation that a verdict should be entered in favor of
the defendant, saving to the laintiff the same rights which he would have
had in case a jury had act y rendered a verdict for the defendant, should
be regarded in precisely the same light as a verdict, and be followed by. the
same 1 results. Sunol v. Hepburn, 1 Cal. 258.

42. e verdict must be confined to the matters put in issue by the plead. Benedict v. Bray, 2 Cal. 256; T5-uebody v. Jacobson, Id. 285.

43. The verdict may conform to the issues. If the Court, instead of having the verdict corrected by the jury, attempt to correct it by the judgment,
and go beyond the verdict, it is error. Ross v. Audlll, 2 Cal. 192.

44. The verdict of a jury is a matter of record, and copies thereof may be
gugsieantlay authenticated by the certincate of the clerk. Reynolds v. Harris,

. 1 .

45. A joint verdict against the defendants answering, and a defaulting defendant, is conclusive against all the defendants, when a separate verdict has
notbeen demanded. Anderson v. Parker, 6 Cal. 197.

5 175. ‘ When a general or special verdict may be rendered.

In an action for the recovery of money only, or specific

‘real property, the jury in their discretion may render a general or special verdict. In all other cases the Court may direct

the jurytofind a special verdict in writing, upon all or any of
the issues, and in all cases may instruct them, if they render a
general verdict, to find upon particular questions of fact, tobe
stated in writing, and may direct a written finding thereon.
The special verdict or finding shall be filed with the clerk
and entered upon the minutes. Where a special tinding of
facts shall be inconsistent with the general verdict, the former

shall control the latter, and the Court shall give judgment
accordingly.

‘Amended 1354, as; N. Y. Code, gs 261, 262.

1. The Courtmay direct a special verdict to be entered in the action. Burs
rlttv. Gibson, 3Cal. 396.

2. 0on£toun¢.¢eneralandepeclalverd1ct.—Whcnthej aredirected.
bytheConrttonndageneralve1-dict, andalaotomahe a s al  of
factsuponquestionssubmittedtothem,a.ndageneral ve ctis return in
favor of one pug, while the dnding upon the special issues is in favor of
the other party. e Court should render judgment in accordance with the
Ipecnlflndmgs,if theyembrace_all the issues  in the pleadings. If,
however, there is any one in 188110 in the loadings, not covered by the

' 1lndlngs,the' tshouldberenseredonthegeneralverdict

cDcr-mott v. Higby, al. 489.

3. Whenajnry renders a general verdict, and also special nndings, the
latter will control the former, if there is any inconsistency between them;
and the Court will direct 'udgment to be entered in accordance with the
special findings. Lease v. ‘lurk, 20 Cal. 387.

4. Bpeoialluueawithdrawn froma jury.—Where specialissues are
submitted to a jury, and they announce that they cannot agree upon the
special issues, but can upon a general verdict, and by consent of counsel
on both sides, the  s are withdrawn, and a general verdict received
by the Court, no error is committed. Mitchell 1. Hoclcett at 01., 25 Cal. 545.

5.11Icoourtmustaet1lethequestiona.eto.-—Itisthe&:cvinceofa
Courttodetermineastowhatpar-ticularfactsthe' shall dspecially

and neither has the right to dictate the terms oi any articular 

tobesubmrt tothe' . Amcrican0ompanyv.B or-11,27
Bee further, ante, § 174. Jury

§ 176. Verdict in actions for recovery of money, or on establishing a counterclaim.

When a verdict is found for the plaintifff, in an action for
the recovery of money, or for the defendant, when a counterclaim for the recovery of money is established, exceeding the

amount of the plaintifff ’s claim as established,_ the jury shall
also find the amount of the recovery.

N. Y. Code, 9268. See 9 47, “Counter claim.”
1. The theory of the lawis not that thepartyreoover theparticuhrnote

chose in action, as is commonlyimagined, butthatherecoversdsmages
rpperbrmanceof thecontract; and incaseof failuretopaymon
etrue damage is the amountof mone owing,andtheinterestw '
was mupon. G-my v. Fraaldin, 5 Cal. 41 .
2. ' onanappealbond.iuwhichdefendants claim therighttoofset
the balance of a decree in a foreclosure suit, which they have ur-chased and
now hold James B. Dad and James '1’. B an, an eleven other
dsfendantsinthatsuit, uponthe that James .Du3'and James T.
&artieabened' yinterestedintheclaiminsuitinthisey and the other eleven defendants in the decree sought
ant: Held, that the set-of cannot be allowed, aswell
because of the provisions 0 section forty-seven of the Practice Act, which
' tobebetweenpartiestotherecordbetweenwhoma
severaljudgmentmightbehadinthisaction,asof the provisionso£thesections one hundred and seventy-sir and one hundred and ninety-nine, which
would require a judgment for the excess to be ‘van against the plaintiff,
although as against him it is not claimed that endants have any demand.

§ 177. Verdict in actions for the recovery of specific‘ personal
P"0P€"’3I- ‘

In an action for the recovery of specfic personal property.
if the property has not been delivered to the plaintifff, or the
defendant, by his answer, claim a return thereof, the jury, if
their verdict be in favor of the plaintifff, or if, being in favor

of the defendant, they also find that he is entitled to a return
thereof, shall find the value of the property, and may, at the
same time, assess the damages, if any are claimed in the complaint or answer, which the prevailing party has sustained
by reason of the taking or detention of such property .

R. Y. Code, M361.

1. In an action for replevin when the defendant has required the return of the
‘property, and given an undertaking for such purpose, a judgment for plaintiff,

order to hold the sureties on the undertaking, must be in the alternative as
required by sections one hundred and four, one hundred and seventy-seven,
two hundred and two hundred and ten of the Practice Act. Nicloerson v. Cleatwm'sZc9s:li“8'h dred «I fhePracti At pllesoaly

2. one us an seventy-seven o t ce c ap
when the issues of the case have been submitted and passed on by the jury, and
net to a case of judgment of nonsuit. Ginica v. Atwood, 8 Cal. 446.

3. An odlcer attaching goods under civil process is entitled to notice of the
skin of a third party to the goods, and a demand for them, or he is not liable.in damages to such party for such seizure and detention. Daswaiel v. Oerham,
6Cal.44; Kil1eyv.8canneI1.12 Id. 75.

4. In an action of replevin b W., it appeared on trial that the property sued
for belonged to him and one ., a third party, and the jury returned a general
verdict for the defendants, and the Court’ gave judgment for a return of the
gcapprty to the defendants: Held, that there was no error in the judgment.

man v. Brcder, 10 Cal. 379.

5. In an action to recover the possession of personal pro rty, with damages
for its detention. the ' dgment ma be for more than the us as alleged in the
complaint, if it be thin the ad mm of the writ. The value of the proper? is only the predicate of the recovery. hill v. Boring, 15 Cal. 218.

. The rule is, that when property conve has a fixed value, the measure
of damages is that value, with legal interest from the time of its conversion ;

when the value is tluctuating, the lalntlff may recover the highest value at the
time of its conversion, or at any e afterward. Douglass v. Craft, 9 Cal. 568 ;

Dorszichv. Manlove, 14 Id. 653.

7. e one hundred and seventy-seventh section of the Practice Act, and
the decision under it, to the effect that the sureties u n the undertaking
given by the plaintiff in a replevin action to procure a elivery of the property, are not r nsible for a return of the roperty or its value, unless a retnrn was claim in-the answer and award by the 'udgment, do not a y
to cases where the action is dismissed by the plaintid before trial. Hilzplv.

Gleason, 21 Cal. 274.
8. The dismissal of a replevin action by pla_intiii' before trial, leaves the

-parties to settle in an action upon the undertaking those matters h 

the right of defendant to a return of the prope , which, had the '

suit been prosecuted, must have been determined erein in the nrst instance.
The op 'ty to obtain a ‘judgment for the return having been taken away
by the ' ure toprosecute, efendant is entitled to recover in an action on

the undertaking, compensation in damages Id.
§ 178. Entry of verdict.

Upon receiving a verdict, an entry shall be made by the
Clerk in the minutes of the Court, specifying the time of

trial, the names of the jurors and witnesses, and the verdict ;

‘merit essen

and where special verdict is found, either the judgment
rendered thereon, or if the case be reserved for argument or
further consideration, the order thus reserving it.

N. Y. Code, § 264; see also, Q 173. ants and notes.
1. If the fails to iind the fact of a lien, the Court cannot render a judgdiferentfrom the verdict, and the judgment so far will be
reversed. W leer v. Hausa-Hijo, 1 Cal. 186.

2. If the Court, instead of havihg the verdict corrected by the jury, attempt .to correct it by the judgnrent, and go beyond the verdict, it is error.
Kilburn v. Ritchie, 2 Cal. 145. C

3. Where there is no question as to the proper judgment to be entered on a
verdict, the judgment should be entered at once, without waiting for a motion
for a new trial. Hutchins-on.v. Bours, 13 Cal. 50.

4. A Court may, in term time or vacation, order ju ent on a verdict rengsred and recorded, if the motion for new trial were on under advisement.

5. The judgment, in pursuance of the verdict, is the act of law upon record
facts, and follows as a matter of course, unless the Court intervene. Id.

6. Counsel, in thetrial of a cause, cannot object that the Court did -not
render judgment on the special verdict of the jur , where they have stipulated
that such additional facts may be found by the udge as would, in his judgment, be sumcient to op:-.esent all the questions raised by the pleadings.
Marius v' Biclmell, 10 224.

TITLE XVI.
CHAPTER V.—Trial by the Court.

Bllcrrczt 179. _ When and how trial by'jurv may be waived.
180. Decision on trial of issue of fact by the Court.
181. A reference may be ordered, when.

§ 179. When and how trial by juvy may be waived.

Trial by jury may be waived by the several parties to an
issue of fact, in actions arising on contract; and, with the
assent of the Court in other actions, in the manner following:

lst. By failing to appear at the trial ;
2d. By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with

the clerk. ,
3d. By oral consent in open Court, entered in the minutes.

The Court may prescribe by rule what shall be deemed a

waiver in other cases.

1. Genarally.~—'1‘he right of trial by jury may be waived in the mode pro’
scribed by law. Russell v. Elliott, 2 Cal. 245.

2. The right of trial by jury cannotbe waived b implication, but may be in
the mode prescribed by law. Smith v. Pollock, 2 al. 92 ; Russell v. Elliott, Id.
245; Ezltne v. Smith, 5 Id. 112. '

3. The Legislature alone. can determine in what casesthe right of trial by
in? may be waived. Esline v. Smith, 5 Cal. 112. ‘ A »

A pa having filed an undertakinp to obtain an injunction, is deemed to
have waiv the right to insist on as tria by jury, and consented that the damages should be ascertained as rescribed by the statute; and an order of reference is no violation of the righ to a trial by jur . Russell v. Elliott, 2 Cal. 246.

5. Parties to a suit in chancery are not entitle to a trial by jury. Walker v.
Bedgwick, 5 Cal. 192 ; questioned in Du 1?‘ v. Fisher, 15 Id. 376.

6. It would seem that a party cannot try his cause before a Judge without
objection, and after losing t, complain that the case was not tried by a jury.
saw v. Braauaa, 13 Cal. 107.

7. Phil: Iubdivis‘lon.—'l'he failure of either party to appear on the trial of a
civil case, operates as a consent on his part that the issue he tried by the Court
without a jury. But such failure to appear does not authorize the trial to be
had by a jury of less than-twelve persons. Gillespie v. Benson, 18 Cal. 409.

8. A less number than twelve persons does not constitute a legal jury. without
the consent of the adverse party; and such consent must be express, and entered
at the time in the minutes of the Court, and cannot be inferred from the mere
absence of the party. Id.

9. The mere act of tiling an answer does not operate as an appearance at the
trial, so as to prevent the waiver of a jury trial, under the one hundred and
seven -ninth section of the Practice Act. aim v. Crows, 4 Cal. 112.

Fr 10. failure of the defendant to appear on the trial of an action of replevin,
when the cause is called, is a waiver of a ju , under the one hundred and seventy—ninth section of the Practice Act. W v. Carson, 10 Cal. 178.

11. The failure of defendant in ejectment to a pear when the cause is called
for trial—an answer being ln—authorized the urt to try it without a jury.
Doll v. Feller, 16 Cal. 432. .

12. Ajury maybewaived bytheparties byafailure to illewrththeclerk,
at least six days before the commencement of the term at which the action
maybetried, anotioe that ajurywill be required. Dollv.A:nda-son, 27
C . 250

13. Thecourthasarighttodirect aniseueof fact to be tried by a jury,
notwithstanding tfile°}>arties have waived the same b a failure to give notice
at least six days are the commencement of the that one will be required. Id. '

[The foregoing case relatestoaruleof Oout,and not to anylogialative
enactment.]

§ 180. ‘Decision on trial of issue of fact by the Court. Ezceptions to be filed, when.

Upon a trial of issue of fact by the Court, judgment shall
be entered in accordance with the finding of the Court, and
the finding, if required by either party, shall be reduced to
writing and filed with the clerk. In the finding filed, the
facts found and the conclusions of law shall be separately
stated. In such cases, no judgment shall be reversed on
appeal for want of a finding in writing at the instance of any
party who, at the time of the submission of the cause, shall
not have requested a finding in writing, and had such request
entered in the minutes of the Court; nor in cases tried by
the Court by a commissioner or a referee shall the judgment
be reversed on appeal for defects in the finding, unless exceptions be made in the Court below for a defect in the finding; and in cases of exceptions for defective findings, the
particular point or issue upon which the party requires a
finding to be made, or the particular defect to be remedied,
shall be speciiically and particularly designated; and upon
failure of the Court to remedy, or when tried by a commissioner or referee, to cause to be remedied, by such commissioner or referee, the alleged defect, the party moving shall
be entitled to his exceptions, and the same shall be settled
by the Judge as in other cases; provided, that such exceptions
shall be filed in the Court and served on the attorney of the
adverse party within five days after receiving from or giving
to the 8dV61‘86 party Written notice of the filing of the finding; provided, that when any cause is tried and submitted
upon a written statement of facts, agreed to by the parties

or their attorneys, such statement shall have the efect of a

special verdict or nnding of facts, and judgment shall be pronounced thereon as upon a special verdict or finding of facts;
and in such case, no finding of facts shall be made unless
such statement hall fail to embrace all the facts proved and
in issue, in which case any additional fact may be found upon

evidence which is not repugnant to the agreed statement.
’ Amended 1866, 844.

1.Dcirectory.—-'1‘hisseetionisdireeto astothetimerequiredforthe
writtendeciaiontobefiled. Vermulsv.S w,-1Cal.216.

2. lhh section appltoableto cases both at lawandtnequlty.-—'l‘he
Act of 1861,  appeals, changes the rule laid down in Walloer v. Saigqiek, (5_Cal. 1 ) an makes the statute. as to nndings of fact and conclu 4:’W, applicable to cases both in law and in equity. Lyonsv. Lyme,

3. Walker v. Sedgwtck (5 Cal. 192) only decides that, under the Practice
Act, the rule requiring the Court to nnd its conclusions of law and fact does
not apply to equity cases, and does not conflict with our decision here. But

‘we doubt that case, and‘ leave the question 01 overruling it open. Duf v.

RAVI, 15 Cal. 375.

4. !he court maydle written nnd1n5s,whether requested ornatHey v. Hoes, Oct. '1‘. 1867.

5. Whenlndingnotneoeeeary.-—'1‘hereisnoneeessityofadndingas

toafactadmittedbythepleadings. Atindingieonlyrequiredwhenthe'

Ilhgehbn of amaterxel fact in the complaint is eontroverted by the answer
seeetoraiseaniseue. Stoiftv. Muygrtdgs, 8 Cal. 445.

6. Facts averted in the complaint and not denied in the answer, are not

reqniredtobefoundhythecourt. I‘bav.Faa:,25Cal.587. .
. When aiudgrnent is rendered on the the Court need not make
Inidnding facts. Ihgdor v. Palmer, 3 Cal. .

_  mmmiw factshinnyissne, anudywheéetgahet  admitted e a ng 18 w a nu . nndrngr ll
$ 20 factpas  . it will not be resume that evidence was introto contradict the admission of . Burnet v. Stearns, Oct. '1‘. 186.7.

9. Mannerofdndingfacts.—The iindin ofa Court sitting as a
may refer to the pleadings for the facts foun , provided the reference is eiently distinct, and the facts are sumciently stated in the pleadings. Ma.Bwea v. Johnson, 7 Cal. 258.

10. The n ‘ of the Court may refer to the pleadings. As for instance,
itvould be sum ant to mad that the promissory note, mortgage, or other instrurnent, set forth in the complaint, was executed by thegfarties, and at the
time as therein alleged; and so with other matters alleg , which are estabhebed by the evidence. But in all such cases, the reference should be distinct and inted, so as to leave no doubt as to what particular facts are in’tended Ewe v. Doyle, 19 Cal. 101.

11. A special nnding on the question of fraud should be always taken so as
ti; kc? it distinct from the mam subject of controversy. Davis v. Robinson,

12. Whereajury iswaived,and the cause tried bythe Court.the Count
Ich:Luldo:.nd the facts, and not merely state the prooh. Heredink v. Holton, 16
1
13. The an ' _ of fact should {not be interblendod with matter of argument or the one of law; each should be embodied in a separate paper.
v. Haums, 28 Cal. 238.
L A ding should consist of a concise, distinct, inted, and separate
latemento! each essential fact established the e dence,in the ope
form, withoutany of the testimony by which e facts are proved, to ow

by a similar statement of the conclusions of law drawn from the facts thus
found. An opinion is not a dnding. The latter forms a of the judgment
roll; the former does not. Hidden v. Jordan, 28 Cal. 30 .

15. The ' of the Court should be concise and pointed. statement of
the several facts ound, followed hynthe conclusions of law, without any mixture of argument, or the evidence m which the facts are found. Jones v.
Block, 30 Cal. 227.

16. A nnding that hay, all to have been converted by defendant to his
own’ use, was worth twenty do per ton, without also finding the number
of tons converted, does not entitle the plaintid’ to a judpient. Thoyv. Ola:-Ice,

30 Cal. 419.
17. Neither the opinion of the Court nor the evidence form any of the

findings of facts, although incorporated therein by the Court. In king at
the nndings, the Court will only consider the ultimate facts found. James v.
Williams, 31 Cal. 211.

18. The reasons given by a Judge in his nndings are no part of the ju
ment. The point decided is the thing nxed by the judgment. Butler 1'. T
Mountain Water 00., 12 Cal. 403.

19. The best practice concerning Ending.

20. It is the better ‘Eat-actice for the Court to dud upon the facts upon which
each party relies on ound’of title. Mot-rill v. Chapman, 0. T. 1867.

21. The Court should rst ask counsel on both sides if they desire findings;
and if they do, reserve its judgment and direct each side to prepare and submit such questions of fact as they desire to have found. This being done, the
Court should answer from the evidence every question submitted, and then,
having first determined and settled all the facts, pronounce its judgment, and
not before. If exceptions have been taken to the rulin of the Court, upon
demurrers to evidence, they can be embodied in bi of exception, and
brought up for review in that form. If, however, the practice of nrst announcing the judgment and preparing the nndings afterwards is followed, the
ijltcurt o tTto18¢fi;l_;-ect the losing party to draw the findings. Thwlcsbury v.

ayro , . . . v

22. {party requiring a dnding as to any fact in issue, should specify the
ggint upon which he desires a dnding, without dictating how the fact should

found. Miller v. Steen, 30 Cal. 402.

23. Bumciency, test ol.—'l'he true test of the sumciency_of the 

of a Court is this: Would they answer if presented by a jury in the form
a special verdict. Id.

24. Bumcient £.ndln5s.—Where. on nit against defendants as members of
a quartz company, one defendant leads that he was not a member of the
company, an
plaint are true. and that said defendant was a member 0 the com y as to
 gasrk, the dnding supports a judgment for plaintiff. Par v. Hinds,

25. In suit on a note and moi-tgage——the answer not denying the execution
thereof—the decree recited, amo other things, that the Court had duly considered the premises, and that “i appears from the note and mortgage sued
up_on, that there was due plaintih‘ at the date of the commencement of this
suit, for principal and interest upon the debt and mortgage mentioned and
set forth in the complaint, the sum of $2,000;" it is ordered, etc.: Held, that
this constitutes a sumcient hnding of facts to su port the decree—amounting
as_ it does, to an indirect finding of the substantia matters in the complaint, to
vir_;t:C:hi.e észxaecution and delivery of the note and mortgage. Holmes v. West,

26. In an action of ejectment a inst two persons, where one of the defendants had previously surrender the possession of the remises to his codefendant, this fact is sumcient to support the iinding of e Court, that the

sseigsigs min onepand not in the other. Burke v. Table Mountain Water

o., . .

27. 1-"Innings, when cannot bedefecttve.

the dndingof the ourt is that the all tions of the com-'

28. If theilndings of thecourt cover all the issues made by the 1,
he _ cannot be defective. Matters of evidence should not be lnclu ed in e

Bios v. Insloeep, Oct. '1‘. 1867.

39. Pindinga, immaterlaltothedeeision.
30. Allegederrorsiniindingsoffactwillnotbeconsidered, where thennd-e
inga themselves are immaterial to the decision. Oloelcenbaum v. Pierson, 22

Cal. 160.

31. Presumptlona in favor of nndinga-—Where the record shows that all
the evidence introduced on the trial is not embodied in the statement, the
presumption is that the nndings and judgment of the Court below are warrantedby be evidence, although the statement contains no evidence upon
whichtobase such dndings and judgment. Owen v.Mortonetals., 24 Cal.

377.
32. If the hndings of a fact are defective, and no exception is taken, the

puma ' ' that the Court passed on the point not found, and decided it
proper1¥:‘1)>I¢:r:aevidence applicable thereto. Henry v. Everts, 30 Cal. 425.
33. if the iindings of fact are defective, the presumption is that proof was

made at the trial in relation to the defective matter, and the udgment will not
be reversed, unless the nndings are excepted to. Jenkins v. %Hnlc, 30 Cal. 586.

34». if the Court does not draw up a written finding of all the facts ut in
issue, and no exception is taken for want of a ilnding, the presumption that
thcaehacts necessary to sustain the judgment, and not contained in the findings, were found by the Court. James v. Williams. 31 Cal. 211.
35. Where the Court finds simply that the defendant was in possession at the

date of the action, and that he wrongfully withheld the possession of the same
from the plaintid, in the absence of any finding or admission to the effect that

the held adversely it must be presumed at least in favor of the
 rg;'?hh holding was’ in subordination to the legal title. Sharp v.

Daugnsy, Oct. '1‘. 1867. y .

36. Where there is no fact stated in the linding respectin the defendant's
claim of title, it will be resumed that tlq Court found the tit e to the premises
in the plaintin‘, and that was entitled to’.'the possession. It is the better practicefor theCourtto lind upon the facts u nwhich each party relies as the

ground of titl Mon-ill v. Chapman, Oct. . 1867.
37. Where the hndings are "silent as to the material points n to an

port the judgment and no effort is made to correct them, the Supreme ourt w 11
presume, in aid of the judgment, that the necessa facts were proved, unless

the contrary appear. Atltearn v. Poppa, -April T. 1 68.

38. Presumption, where there is no finding.
39. When there are no iindings of fact in an action tried by the Court, all

1}, ' f fact raised by the answer are deemed to have been found in
fa:orw8o'iesth?s party who recovered judgment. Buclcout v. Swift, 27 Cal. 434.

40. Aapeciilc must control ageneral finding.-—_If a discrepancy exists
between a general hnding and the more speciiio dud of particularfacts,
the rpeeinc dndings must control. Hidden v. J ordon, Cal. 301.

41. Construction of iindlnga.—'1‘he tindings of a Court cannot be altoer detached from each other and considered separatel . If a particular

' be doubtiul or obscure. reference may be had to e others to assertain the true meaning. Millard v. Hathaway, 27 Cal. 141.

42 In an action to recover judgment against a municipal corporation for
work done by plaintiff on contracts, and warrants issued therefore, and also

for other warrants urchased by plaintiff issued  other parties, it the Court
hndsasafactthatltihewarrantsissued to plaintm were issued after the accounts under the contract were audited, and were issued in consideration
thereof, this amounts to a hnding that the warrants were drawn for the
amount due on the contracts. Argenti v. City of San Francisco, 30 Cal. 458.

43. Where there are several dndings of fact, and a question arises as to the

nstructi th stbereadtogetherforthe ofascertainingthe
‘gecise 31.333 ofeiighing intended. Kimball v. lanes, 31 Cal. 154.

l

44. A stipulation controls a finding.—Where parties stipulate as to 3
hot, and the finding difers from the stipulation, the latter must give way to
the former. Carpentier v. Small, Oct. '1‘. 1868.

45. The parties stipulated that the evidence should be taken by s refesc,
andthecausetried beforethecourtonthe evidence '1‘heCourt,indesd of
dnding the facts from the evidence, foundtheallegetionaol thethirdcuunt
correct, because not denied. Held, that this was error, and that the Courtsbould have ed the  f the third count as denied. andtound
the facts from e evidence. v. Baylla, 23 Cal. 303.

46. VVha§‘quest:Icnewill
there is a ° between £nd|ng' {ooh judgment, 53'
Court may, on apm order the modidcatiou at the judgment; but
where the judgment is in harmony wi the pleadings and thetindinan facll,
audiserroneousbyreasonofsvarianeebetweenthedndingsnd proof.

the Supreme Courtwillnotmodify thejudgmenttoslit the proof. Glut v.-5

Huber, 30 Cal. 196.

47. Ifthe tindings of fact of the Court beloware defective, and no objections
istakentot.hemonthatgroundintheCourt below, the o 'ection osnnotbo
raised in the Supreme Court. Hurlbud v. Jones, 95 Cal. .

48. If illegal testimony is admitted bythecourtbelow, sndthesppellnte
Court cannot determine whether the dnding of the Court below was based
on this or other testimony in this case, the judgmentwill be reversed. Rd
v'4DMAn:I2;C°l°568ti.th nndmg lxdedbyth words, tophmhl

9. ojection t e ' is ' e “as ' '
Park," and that the facts showing th‘i‘s.rela6on to him tohsve bem
found, should have beentakenbelow,a.ndcannotberaised orthcfirsttinc
on ap§al. Park v. Hinds, 14 Cal. 415.

50. the dndings of fact follow the issues raised by the pleading, ands
demurrer would not be sustained to the complaint, the judgment ' not be
arrested upon the tindings. Millard v. Hathaway, 27 Cal. 140.

51. Ifinanaotiontoreeoverlands,theCourt dndsdamages t given.
judgment for possession-without damages, and Xlaintif appeah from dint
partof thejudgment ' damages, and the efendant from the
order, denying a new trial, e appellate Court may vacate dndings as
téadtfileeodamages if not justided by the evidence. Gavpenlier v. Ga-diner, 29

52. Defectsinthenndingof facts cannot be relied on as a ground fora

reversal of the judgment, unless the dndings were exoe ted to on that ground.
1135/ v. Clarice, 30 Cal. 419. P

The only question that can be raised in the agpellate Court ugon the
Endings, if no exception is taken to them, is, are ey consistent th Hie
ju ent? James v. William. 31 Cal. 211.

. Thedndingof a Court, likeaspecislverdietofs jury,must, taken in

gognleciiaosn with the pleadings, support the judgment. Swift v. Iuygrtdge,
a . .

55. If adndingof factsisinconsistentwiththe  itisfatal totho
judgment without an exception being taken in the urt low. Lucas v.
Sea Fmacisco, R Cal. 591.

56. A dnding of facts bya referee that an alleged judgment more than ave
years old was properly entered, and is a good and valid udgment, does not
support a judgment reported by him, that the plaintifffs ave execution on
the ‘u ent. Solomon v. Maguire, 29Cal. 227.

5 . ere the declaration was upon a note, and there was but one eount,
and the Court found that the note was never given, but that the indebtedness
at defendant to plaintiff was tbr merchandise sold: Held. that the nnding was

ingsthe ave:-meet, and could not support this judgment Lewis v. Myers, 8

58.P'.lndingoftaottoberoviewed.party mustmovetoranew‘
trh.l.—'l‘hedudingsof faotiuthecourtbelowwillnotbereviewedon .
unless there was a motion foranew trial; and this, whether the case '

in
Eqauitgsz-r at law, tried by a jury or by the Court. Gaglsardo v. H'oba-(in, 18

&.’l'heBupeIneConrtwill netreviewtheindings efthe Courthelowln
:dequ'ty eaueenponaqneetioneffact,ifthepartyohjeetingtothe dnding

does not move for a new u-ial, and eal from the order overruling emotion. Deputyv. 8‘la%e_ferd, 19 Cal. ' B310 v.1lartin,Id. 474.
When the nndingie against e evidence, counsel ould move for a newG.
trig, The wants the evidence reviewed. Bios v. Iaelceep, Oct. T. 1867.

Whenapartythinh anynnding is contra to ornnsnpportedbythe

evidence, he must maize that a groun of motion or a new trial. He cannot
availhinueioftheaiiegederrorinanyothermanner. lireeptionatoooneim

8%. Judgment will not be reversed for want of a nnding or fora
nndin5.—-Previous to the Act of 1861, findings were re aired to
Irpportthe judgment, but under that Act and Section 180, as amend in 1866,
where  no excepggi: 21111 the grounlclimtllilat themnnding is defective or wait:
ing, it is o uisite e nnding not rep nant to or incons
the '1“! t. Sears v. ' Oct. T. 1887. as
63. A judgmentrendered in an action tried by the Court, without a j ,
alter the am day of July, 1861, will not be reversed for want of a duding of e
beta, unless exceptions be made in the Court below to the want of a finding.
64

9

v.DeLaGuerrae¢al.,24Cal.24l. e

.- Ajndgneat rendered in an action tried by the Court, without a ju , will
int be reversed for a defective finding of facts, unless exce tions are to. en in
the-Court beiewto the detective Iindiu , particularly specif g the defect, and
the bill of exceptions is settled by the dge, as in other cases. Warner v. Holman. 24 Cal. 228. 65. If the answer sen up a counterclaim, and the Court find that the defendant introduced no evidence as to the counterclaim, the ilnding is defective; but, if
the e deuce is all before the appellate Court, and it appears that no testimony
was introduced by either as tothe counterclaim, the judgment will not
be reversed on account of the efective finding. Schroeder v. Johns, 27 Cal. 281.

66. If the nudings of the Court are deficient, the appellant must except to
men for that reason, or the presumption will be that the facts not found warthe judgment. Bryan v. Mannie. 28 Cal. 238.

. VVherethemg1edingsint‘I.nca.$t1iedby&tll1.e")Clourt do not contain all til:
neeeesaryto proven ertoen e partytoaju it will not be reversed on a unless the pcloeurt ow has, after the
has been pointed out, fail or refused to make the  nnding,
anexeeptionhasheen tahen thereto. Lyon.-iv. Leimbaclc, Cal. 1%.

If the Court makes a fin ' of facts upon some of the issues, and the
t neither excepts to it as efective, nor moves for a new trial, he cannot attack the nnding either on the ground that it does not ind all the facts
inhene, orie uneupportedhythe evidence. Gneeav. Clark, 81 Cal. 591.

Q. EI1dingbaaedona&nbiem.-—'1‘hedndingofajurybasedupcnan
admission of the parties lathe pleadings orotherwiee,-is not less an assessuuient of damages than if e finding were made‘ upon connicting evidence.

70. Amdavitaeannotbeueedinaidofa Ending.-—Thenndings are the,
only method which the decision of the Court, on a azuestion of hot, can
he made  ' It is not competent to establish by davit, the action of
tihegar-espect to its decision on a question of fact. Sancho: v. McMahon,’

71. ArnendmeIitolhdhiga.»—8ee§68,no¢eNo. 131.

T2. Generally.--Ajurywaswaived bytheparties,and thecaeesnbmitted
to the Court; the trial made some progress, when, on motion of ' em
attorn ,thecasewaareferred,“toascertainthedamageesus ' byplainiii." GEE, the caeehavingbeensuhmitted to the Court, itwaathedutyof
theconrttonndu nthefacteadducedbytheparties,andnotthefactapre
eentedinarefemeesreport. GeeseIcav.Bra1man,2Cal. 517.

1.

§s5E§=§

73.The1!ndingcfaCourt.liketheveu-dictofs ,isamatterof1-ecord,
and copies thereof may be sumcientl authenticated the eertiiicate of the
Clerk. Reynoldsv.Han-is,8Cal.6l .

74. In ejectment against several defendants occu ditfaent portion of
the land sued fg, sonic: otfhwlaeom answer :2: others In defaultnaind none
appearingon etria, e urtmay esgeneral£ndmg' enters
jointju entagainstallthedefendantsforposeessionofthelandandcosts.
Liclev

. , 18 Cal. 219.
75. As die in this case—ejectment with an uitable defense inafectlysetup, ed wme o notstntcitlynn suchffacts astsgow
endant's ui asaga1nst' ' ' sebum,’ e'udgment orphan’ ' is
amrmed. .L;e?zdotv¥v. Parsons, i)9 Cal. 294. J

76. If, in an action to recover lands, the Court duds damages, but gives

judgment for ssession without damages, and the plaintiff appeals from that
part of the ju gment refusing damages, and the defendant a from the
order den a new trial, the a pellate Court may vacate the ' gs as to
the damages not justified by e evidence. Carpentier v. Gardiner, 29 Cal.

160.

§ 181. Reference may be ordered, when.

On a judgment upon an issue of law, if the taking of an
account be necessary to enable the Court to complete the
judgment, a reference may be ordered.

T I T L E X V I L
_ Curran VI.— Of references, and trial by referees.

Stones 182. Reference ordered upon agreement of parties, in what
cases.
183. Reference ordered on motion, in what cases.
:3: glutxliiber of referees}; q11ali1icati¢£s,fe:£
. ' erpartymsyojeogg;-oun o ' ‘on.
186. 0b'ections, how disposed of. Jean
187. Beereestoreport withintendays, efeotof, howexo
cepted to, etc.

§ 182. ‘Reference ordered upon agreement of parties, in what
cases. '

A reference may be ordered upon the agreement of the
parties filed with the clerk, or entered in the minutes:

First-To try any or all of the issues in an action or_ proceeding, whether of fact or of law, and to report a finding
and judgment thereon:

Second»-—To ascertain a fact necessary to enable the Court

to proceed and determine a case.
1 Amended 1866, 845.

1. Order of court is neoeseary.—An_orderof Courtisnecessarytooonstitute a reference under the Code, and no reference wouldbe good, as such,
withoutanorder. Heelepv.0ityofSanFrancieco,4Cal.2. rder of reference cannot go beyond the pleadings 'of the

o
Bvmger V. Chevalia-, 9 Cal; 353. 3. A reference or arbitration, in which there is no order of Court or agreeed with the clerk or entered on the minutes, is’ a voluntary withofthecasefrom thejnriediodonofthecourtbywhichitlosesan
over the case, and has no authority to enter Judgment upon the
except by consent of parties. Heelep v. City of San Francisco

4 Reference by consent.‘-The consent of a party to an order of refertalcesréiust be in writing, or entered on the minutes. Smith v. Pollock, 2

5. An order of reference cannot be made without the consent of the adverse
party. _Benham v. Rowe, 2 Cal. 261.. , _

6. Where an entry on the minutes recites that “ the parties came by their
attorn, and defendant, by his attorney, moved the Court that‘ the cause he
ref :” Held, that such a reference was made on the appellant's motion,
end in‘ one of the modes prescribed b law, “ by oral consent, in open Court,
entered on the minutes.” Bates v. isher, 2_Cal. 355. _ p

7. A stipulation to refer the whole matter, is a_ waiver of any objection, ‘that
die motion for a new trial and to set aside the award was not made within the
statute time. Heelep v. City of San Francisco, 4 Cal.'2. , .

8. The whole issue in divorce cases cannot, even by stipulation of parties,
be referred; and where a reference is had, thereferee cannot as upon the
testimony. If he make any statement or nnding of facts, the urt is. obliged

to disregard’ it, a d base its decree onl u n the 1 testimon taken.
Baker v. Baleer, 13 Cal. 527. y Po 68“ y

9. The Court has no power, without the consent of the  to order a
reference for the trial of any other issue of fact than the involved in the
 on of an account in an equity ‘case. Williams v. Benton, 2-1'

Ii). The Court has no power, when either of the“ arties object, to order a
reference with directions to the referee to report a ju ent. Id. ‘

11. Equity unit: may be referred without ooneent.—'l‘he Court may
order a reference in equity cases without consent of parties. Smith v. Rome,
4 Cal. 7. See Stillv. Saunders, 8Cal. 286, and Burnhan v. Rowe, 2 Cal. 261.

12. Btaurte is in aid of the common law.—-Our statute ‘concerning
referees is in aid of the common law remedy by arbitration, and does not alter
it principles. I3/son v.'We1Ls, 2 Cal. 122.

See further, § 183, 187, and note.

§ 183. Reference ordered on motion, in what cases.

When the parties do not consent, the Court may, upon ‘the
application of either, or of its own motion, direct a reference
in the following cases :

let. When the trial of an issue of fact requires the exami?
nation of a long account on either side; in whichcase the
refereesmay be directed to hear and decide the whole issue,
or report’ upon any specific question of fact involved thereini

2d. When the taking of an account is necessary for the
information of the Court before judgment, or for carrying a
judgment or order into efect:  n

3d. when a question ot fact, other than upon the pleadings, arises upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of the
action; or, a

4th. When it is necessary for the information of the Court
in a special proceeding._

1. Our statute, as to referring cases, ap lies solely to equity causes. The

t of trial by jury in all common law ac one is secured by the Constitution
0 this State. Grim V. Norris, 19 Cal. 140.

2. A Court has not power to send an ordinary suit at law to a referee for trial

against the objection of either party; and this, whether the suit requires the
examination of a long account or not. And a statute authorizing a reference
in such case would be unconstitutional. Id.

8. In an action of law, the necessi oftaking a long aecountwill not
authorize the Court to refer the case wi out the consent of_ parties. Id.

4. And even if one of the parties subsequently waived his objection to the
reference, that will not be sumcient. Id.

'5. The Court may order a reference to ascertain the es sustained
reason of an injunction issued without a cause. Russell v. lliotl, 2 Cal. .

6. Action, for balance of an account. Defense, payment‘ by a promissory
note. _ Re lication, that the plaintifff was induced to receive the note by means
of fraud ent representations. Held, that the case was not referable under

iihsdsltagaéga, without the written consent of both parties. Seaman v. Hmiani,

7. In an uity case, where the trial of an issue of fact is involved, requiring
the examina on of a 10 account on either side, the Court may order a reference, with directions to e referee to report upon the account, or any issue of
fact involved in the account. Williams v. Benton, 24 Cal. 425. r

8. In an action to dissolve a partnership and obtain a settlement of the
partnership accounts, the Court has power to order a reference for the trial of
all the issues of fact relating to the condition of the ership accounts;
but it has no power, if objection is made, to order a re erence of the trial of

any othefdissue or issues in the case, nor to direct the referee to report a judgment. .

9. When the taking ofan account is required, it is in the discretion of the

Court to take an account, or to refer it to a commissioner or referee to state it.
Hidden v. Jordon, 28 Cal. 301.

10. If the commissioner, to whom a case has been referred to take an account,
commits an error at the threshold which unsettles the account, the Court is not
bound to go over the account and correct the error, but may set aside the report
and again refer the case. Hidden v. Jordon, 32 Cal. 397. [See same case, 28

Cal. 301.]

§ 184. ‘Number of referees, qualifications, etc.

A reference may be ordered to any person or persons, not
exceeding three, agreed upon by the parties. If the parties
do not agree, the Court or Judge shall appoint one or more
referees, not exceeding three, who reside in -the county in
which the action or proceeding is triable and against whom
there is no legal objection, or the reference may be made to
a Court commissioner of the county where the cause is pendn .
1 amended 1866, 345. See 9529.

§ 185. Either party may oljecl; grounds qfolgiection.

Either party may object to the appointment of any person‘

as referee, on one or more of the following grounds:

lst. A want of any of the qualifications prescribed by statute to render a person competent as a juror:

2d. Consanguinity or ailinity, within the third degree, to
either party: ' A "

3d. Standing in the relation of guardian and ward, master‘and servant, employer and clerk, or principal and agent to"

either party; or being a member of the family of either
party; or a partner in business with either party; or being
security on any bond or obligation for either party:
4th. Having served as a juror, or been a witness on any
trial between the same parties for the same cause of action :
5th. Interest on the part of such person in the event of
the action, or in the main question involved in the action:

6th. Having formed or expressed an unqualiiied opinion or’

belief as to the merits of the action:

7th. The existence of a state of mind in such person:

evincing enmity against or bias to either party.

1. The fact that the referee, in the proceedingsisupplemen to execution,
was the clerk of the attaching creditor, is not any considers e evidence of

bed, when the limited duties ofthe relereeare considered. Adamsv.'

Hsdadt, 7 ca. 137.

§186. 0Iy'ec§'ons, how disposed of.

The objections taken to the appointment of any person as
referee shall be heard and‘ disposed of by the Court. Amdevits may be read, and any person examined as a witness,
as tosnch objections.

§l87. Referees to report within ten days, qfect qf, how excepted to, etc. _
The referees or Commissioner shall report their findings in

writing to the Court within ten days (or within such further

time as may be allowed by the Court) after the testimony
shall have been closed, and the facts found and conclusions of

law shall be separately stated therein. The finding of the
lteferee or Commissioner upon the whole issue shall stand as
the finding of the Court, and upon filing of the finding with
the Clerk of the Court judgment may be entered thereon in
the same manner as if the action had been tried by the Court.

.4!’

The finding of the referees or Commissioner may be excepted
to and reviewed in like manner . as. if made’ by the Court.
When the reference is to report the facts the dnding re‘ ported shall have the effect of a special verdict.
‘Amended 1866, 845.

1. ‘Ten days" direotory.—'l‘he provision of section 187 of the Practice

Act as to the time within which a re eree must me his rt. ismerely direc" . Afailure to die within the time will not invalida the report or the
%ant rendered thereon.“ Keller v.  22 Cal. 471.

.2. Referees. povrenanddutlel o.£.tdal.7—Undar.a reference to try the
issues and report a judgment. the referee can exercise all the were of a
go i;i2relationtotheh'ia1of.the-causerethredtohin. .v. Flauiag,

al. .

8. Referees have no power to allow the parties to alter the  after
arcasehssbeen-submittedtothem. Delaliiva v. B¢W9°‘0. Cal.,1 .
obi Befereeszliiould exclude items barred by the Statute of Limitations, if

to.

. Whereareferenceishadtotakeanacccunt, it is vrithintbe discretion
of the refereesto o n the case, after it has been once closed, for the purpose of receiving tional testimony. 'l1ie exercise of such diseredon, extlszpé   of gross abnse,,w1ll not be reviewed onappeal. Marsiowv. Piochc,

a . .

6. The trialof a referee shouldbeoonduatedin the same mannerasbdorea
Court, and ,.the evidence should be embodied in a bill of exceptions, and
oertinedby thereferee. Goodrichv. 0' of Ila:-ysville, 5 Cal. 430.

6. Hearsayand irrelevant testimony s uld beexcluded byrefsrees. De‘ la
Riva v. Bee-reyesa, 2 Cal. 195.

8..Whereareferee admits thetestimony of a vrituessagainst the objection

wno vnthou . vmg verse p . e
ii‘. “?..:’.“°‘°’“:.‘.,‘“"— '“°"J§‘.;“.“;;‘."‘-’ °“.:‘§.". ‘:5?’ ‘’‘° °‘.':.,''*.:. "°“.,;,.....“""? “'3;
otherwise supplying the excluded testimony. Manson v. 00010:, Cal. .

9. Reference and referee.—-A reference with directions to the referee to
ttzkegroofs concerning the confession of a judgment by the defendant, and
e

dgment roll in the case. and whether the same was died in the clerk’:
odes, and to report the testimony, with a dnding of facts and a judgment.

does not submit to the referee the question as to what amount, if any. is still
unpaid in the judgment. Solomon v. Maguirc, 29 Cal. 227.

l 10. Duty of referee.—It is the duty of a referee to act upon the uesh'ons
committed to him, and to report whatever he is required to report by order
under which he acts. Hdm v. Pack, 30 Cal. 280.

11. Finding! of a- re6eree.—When the order of a reference requires the

referee to try the issues, and reporthis dnding thereon, the referee ma make;

ageneraldndingu nthefactsputinissue,stating thefactsacco ' to
theirlegaledect. d. Seepoet, No.43. ' "

12.RepoI‘t..how,,w.hsuand forwhat, not aide.-—'1‘he reportof a
referee cannot be attacked, except for error or mitake of law, ap nt on its
face, or by motion for new trial upon exceptions taken at the tria‘l’,a:i' the evidence certided. Goodrich v. City of Jfarysville, 5 Cal. 430.

13. If the order of reference fails to direct a return of the evidence to the

Gourgthepartyobj ' tothereportmustseethatsuchtestimonyashe.

relies on is progqrly ce ed. Id.

14. Error in ‘e report of a referee must be taken advantage of by written
objections to ante:-in judgment on it, or by motion for a new trial. Porter v.
Barli , 2 Cal. 72; I 122.

'16. thealleged errorconsists inthednalconelusion oflavrcr

faets drawn. from thetestimony, and-the'evidenoe~is ces-lined to the Court

the referee, the proper course is to move to set aside the report, and for a
newtrial. B1-anger v. Chevalier, 90:11. 362.

16. A reference iaa substitution for a jury; and.a judgment should be had
upon their report as upon a verdict, and a motion to set aside the report of
refer-eesisn beforetheapellate Courtbere uiredtoexamine the

and set the same aside. gunlcr v. Sanchez, 1 C -48.

7. Judgment is entered as a matter of course on the report of a referee,
and the only mode to take advantage of error is to move to set the judgment
aside,-as on motion for a new trial. Sloan v. Smith. 3 Cal. 407.

18. A report of a referee can only he set ‘aside on account of fraud, gross
¢rurot'laworfact,appanenton its-face. v.Reed,2Oal.324.

.. 19. Court has power to set aside rt of referee, and grant new trial, on
the ground that the evidence before referee did not Jusifyrhis decision.
Ca v. Briuofard, 19 Cal. 607.

g:eA Court can interiors and set asidethevergslcrt of a relbree, upon the
same ground as it will proceed to set aside the ct of a jury. McHem~y v.
ban, 5 Cal. 92.

21. The report of a referee upon conflicting evidence must be treated in the
light of averdictofaj ,and will not be disturbed in thisCourt upon an
appeal from an order to grant a newtrial in the Court below. Ritchie
Y. Bradshaw, 5 Cal. 229. C

82. Though a plea would be had upon demurrer, _ at if no objection be taken
at the time, and the case be submitted to a referee, e defect of the plea is not
sumoient reason to set aside the report. Ritchie v. Davis, 6 Cal. 453.

23. If there be no exception taken to the ruling of a referee, and the rule of
law b which he arrived at his conclusions be not disclosed, the Court cannot

thereport,andanordergrantinganewmalinsuchcasewillbe
reversed. T sonv. Wells, 2 Cal. 130; Gr-aysonv.Guild,4Id. 125. But, see
Butte Co. v. organ, 191d. 609.

24. When a case is referred to a referee, under the statute, to hear and determine the issuesof fact and of law, audreport thesame to theCourt, and he
makes his report, wherein no errors of law or fact occur, and no exceptions are
taken, the Court below should not set aside the report and grant a new trial.

Grgson v. Guild, 4 Cal. 125.

. It would be a gross abuse of discretion for a Court to set aside a report of
a referee. correct in all its parts, without any other apparent reason than the
more volition of the Judge. Goodrich v. City of Marysvillc, 6 Cal. 430.

26. It is error for the ourt to setaside the report of a referee, upon an examination of testimony which was‘ not properl before it. Id.

27. The Court will not disturb the award 0 an arbitratoror report of 1:. referee, unless the error complained of, whether of law or fact, appear on the face
of the award or report. Tyson 7. Wells, 2 Cal. 122.

28. Ifthere be no exceptions embodied in the report, showing that the referee
erred in fact, and the rule of law b which he arrived at his conclusions be not
induced, the Court cannot distur ‘the report; and an order nting a new
rial in such caserwill be reversed. Id. But, see Butte 00. v. organ, _19 Cal.

609.

‘39. After the rendition of judgment upon a report of referee, the Court ma
award a new trial, and set aside the report for any reason that would beeiI(a3nt‘tg set aside the award of an arbitrator, and for noother. Heudleyv. Reed,
2 a . 22. A

30. The provisions of the Practice Act relating to new trials are general, and
vestincourtsthesamepowerin cases tried hyarefereeasincasestrled bythd
Court itself, or by a jury.- Oappe v. Briuolara, 19 Cal-607.

31. But when the alleged error consists in the dual conclusion of law or fact
drawn from the testimon , and the evidence is certified to the Court by the referee, the’ proper course to move to set aside the report and for a new trial.

Euageraadbrianiv. Chevalier, 90151. 863.

2 32. Hutton to set aalde.—The time within which a notice ofa motion must
he died to set aside the report ofa referee, and a statement he prepared for that
pm-pose, is regulated by section one hundred and ninety-live.

.3‘:33. Failure to ap and prosecute a motion to set aside the report of a referee and for new , is an abandonment of motion, and the order made deny.

in the motion for such failure to a pear, is not the subject of review on appeal15m.3Mv. Wilson, l5CaL 43; rankv.Doaue, l5ld.303; Gneav.Doo-ne,

34. Report should state facts found. eto.—'l‘he re rtof a referee, like
the ilndin of a report should state the facts found and e conclusions of law.
Without is, the parties would be remediless, and their rights concluded, in
mang cases, b§the arbi decision of a referee. Lambert v. Smith, 3 Cal. 409.
See ule No. XI, for San ranciscc County. See an!e,No. 11.

35. Cannot file an amended report.-—A referee has no right to bring in
and file an amended re rt, and the case must be reviewed w th reference to

the original report. eadiey v. Reed, 2 Cal. 324.

36. Referee need not be awom.—-'l'he statute does not require the referee
to be sworn; consequently, the imposition of an oath by the Court would be of
no effect other than to ut it in their ower to commit moral perjury, without
being amenable to the aw. Sloan v. itlt, 3 Cal. 407.

37. Exception to report.—If the report of a reteree is not made immediately after the close of the testimony, it is deemed excepted to. Headley v.

Reed, 2 Cal. 324.
38. In a suit in chancery, it is rfectly competent for the Judge who tried

the cause, after exceptions have een filed to the report of a referee upon the
iitcts, and the re rt set aside for cause shown, to take up the testimon reported by the re res, and the facts and render a decree in the cause. He

v. Moore at al., 5 Cal. 90.
39. Trials before a referee are conducted in the same manner as before Courts,

and exce tions must be taken to the rulings of the referee, in the progress of the
trial in t e same manner as the must be taken before a Court; and such exceptions must be embodied in t report of the referee, or made part thereof by

his pro er certificate. Phelps v. Peabody, 7 Cal. 50.
40. hen the referee excludes proper or admits improper evidence, or does any

act material] affecting the rights of either party during the progress of the trial
before him, en such arty should except, and’see that the exception is truly

stated in the report. ranger v. Chevalier, 9 Cal. 358.

41. Report. «Coot of.-—'I‘he facts found in the report of a referee are conclusive in the absence of the testimony, or where the testimon is not properly

brought before the Court. Goodrich v. Oily of Maryrville, 5 al. 430.
42. The report of a referee, under the statute, has the same legal effect as the

award of an arbitrator. Headley v. Reed, 2 Cal. 322.
43. Findin of a referee conclusive as to the facts, on conflicting evidence.

Kaowlesv. oost, 13 Cal. 620; Muller v..Boggs,25 Id. 179; Peck v. Vanderberg, 30 Id. 11.
44. The decision of referees upon a question of fact will bemrlefanied. on
a as conclusive as the verdict of a jury, and will not be in ered with.

v. Sanchez, 1 Cal. 45; Walton V. Il'm¢w'n, Id. 362. _
45. The report of a referee isthe same as an award of an arbitrator. Grayuon

v. Guild, 4 Cal. 125.
46. If a report of a referee, under the statute, contain sumcient on which

to base a judgment, it is the duty of the Court below to enter j‘ur¢‘l’§ment in accordance with the report, so far as it concerns the matter refs . and it has

no right to entertain any objection whatever. Headley v. Reed, 2 Cal. 322.

47. Mandarnus.—A mandamus lies to compel the Judge of a District Court
to enter judgment on the repgrt of a referee. Russell v. Elliott, 2 Cal. 248.

48.Refsree'a ofajudgmentmaybeaetaaidemndapropsr
judgment on —If a referee reports the facts upon all the issues, but
draws an erroneous conclusion of law from the facts found, and also reports a
judgment in accordance with his conclusions of law, the Court, before a judg’ _-P,-pat is entered, may set aside the conclusions of law, axgl direct a proper

" ‘ out tobe entered. Oaldsnooodv. Pyser, 31 Cal. 333.

*me was tried below, in whic

49. Review on appeal.—'lfhe Supreme Court will not review a judgment
entered on the report of a referee, if no objection was made to the report in
the Court below. Porter v. Barli , 2 Cal. 72.

5?. Whépt a £1-Sport lplf I: refereeth nslaliehengerronepusl Sgt ‘ride, and a new
trial gran mw'c action ep ti appeas, e upremeCourtwill
iglcorreftgs both errm-s at the same time in a chancery case. Grayson 1'. Guild, 4

61.  order ' ' aside a report of a referee, a pointed to take an dcccnnt, is merely lnte ogzltory, andnot the subject 0 appeal before judgment.
Johnston v. Doplcins, 6 . 83.

52. An order seth'ng aside the finding of a referee in a divorce case, and
{ending the casedbacl: go thgjreferee for fnrthelra testimony, is inter1‘ocg1tory in
tschu-acter,an nottesu ectofa . kerv.Baloa-,10Ca. 28.
“S3?! It seems that a stay of me; g;%18?d92n an appeal -from an order

erence, is proper. ’ v. k, . .

54. Where the record on appeal contains a re rt of a referee by whom the
is a nnding of e facts bf him, and no statement on motion for new trial appears in the transcri t, twill be presumed
at the nndings2<1)fCt‘file ggferee were based upon s cient evidence. Donav. Gwomadie, . .

55. Where a cause is tried by a referee and the testimony is condicting, the

‘sglprfgrse Court will not disturb his findings of fact. Muller v. Boggs, 25
I .

56. The Supreme Court will not review the findings of a referee to ascertain‘

whether they are contrary to the evidence, exce t on appeal from an order
deiaring a new trial. Peck V. Vandenberg, 30 C . 11.

. An order overruling an exception to the re ort of a referee, taken on
the alleged ground that the report did not dnd e facts as required by the
order of reference, may be reviewed on an appeal from a final judgment. Id.

58. Court commissioners.-—A Court commissioner has no jurisdiction to
hear a motion or make an order in reference to the dissolution of an injunction, unless the motion isreferred to him by the Court. Storm v.Bunlce1-Hill
Ga. 28Cal. 497.

69. Taking account by referee.—If the commissioner, to whom a case
has been referred to take an account, commits an error at the threshold which
nnsettles the account, the Court is not bound to go_over the account and correctth error-,but tasid th t ndagam f th . Hidden
'.Jm¢;a“'32GaLm3:?.se e erepora reer ecase

T I T L E X V I I I .
Cnarrnn VII.—- General provisions rehzting to trials.

EXCEPTIONS.

Brena: 188. An exception, what is; what exception ma be disregarded.
189. The point of exception shall be particular y stated. etc.
190. No particular form required.
191. When deemed excepted to.

§188. An exception, what is ,- what exceptions may be disre' garded.

Au exceptjon is an objection taken at the trial to a decision

upon a m_atter of law, whether such trial be by jury, Court,

-or referees, and whether the decision be made during the

formation of a jury, or in the admission of evidence, or in the
charge to a jury, or at any other time from the calling of the
action for trial to the rendering of the verdict or decisionBut no exception shall be regarded on a motion for a new
trial, or on an appeal, unless the exceptionbematerial, and
sheet the substantial rights of the parties.

1. An exception is an objection taken between the time of caning the action
for trial and the rendition of the verdict or decision. Quiz.-ey v. Gambert, 32
Cal. 304.

2. A statement and hill of exceptions in the statute, on . its subject of oppeal, mean the samet ' . People v. Lee, 14 Cal. 510.

3.» The sole object of a ' of exceptions is to make a record of the speeinl
action of the Court of what is not record by the general law. But that which
is of record_ already, cannot receive any higher of sanction by being
made records second time. Parsons v. Davis, 3 C 426.

4. Exception: must be taken during the t:rial.(‘)—Exce ‘ens must
betakentotherulingsoftherefereeduringthetrialan 'edbyhirn.
Tyson v. Wells, 2 Cal. 122. ‘ '

6. There is nothing in the statute which reqluihres that exception to 1:306tions shallbe illed before the time of trial. e objection can be e e at
an; time before they are read in evidence. Dye v. Ba’ , 2 Cal. 384.

. Objections to the form of a deed must be made on e trial at nisiprius.
Posten v. Rassette, 5 Cal. 468.

6. Objections to the introduction of evidence must be taken on the trial
below ; they cannot be taken for the first time in the appellate Court. Cecil»laud v. Turner, 7 Cal. 38.

7. A cannot, by consenting to admit evidence, “subject to all I
exceptions, ’ absolve himself from the necessity of taki exce ‘one to e
relevancy or sumciency thereof, and devolve the responsib 'ty o discovering
whatever objections may exist on the Court below, and after nshing for a
verdict, for the £1-st time assign his objections in the Supreme Court. Id.

8. A party cannot take his chances for a verdict on instructions given or
refused without exceptions taken, and then alter verdict except to the action
of the Court upon motion for new trial. Letterv. Putney, 7 Cal. 423.

9. If exceptions to the rulings below be not taken at the time, they cannot
be urged on appeal. McCartney v. Fitz Henry, 16 Cal. 186.

10. An exception shouldbs made before the jury retlres.——The one
hundred and eighty-eighth section of the Practice Act does not nx the precise
time when an exce tion to the charge of the Court to the jury must be taken.
St. John v. Kidd, Cal. 265.

11. If an exception to the charge of the Court to the jury is taken after the
jury have withdrawn, to consider of their verdict, and before the verdict is
rendered, the uestion of allowing or disallowing the exception rests in the
discretion of t e Court, and whether allowed or disallowed, the Supreme
Court will not interfere with the exercise of this discretion. Id.

 

(1) Gnu-one or 1861, p. 589.—Cnu-rn D1311.

"8lo.t.Durln)gut‘he o!acause.aps maytakehlsbmcfexceptlcmtoths
admtssio orexc on, o testimony, crtothe gsoftheludge on intsoflaw, andlt
shallnct necesssrytoembodyln such bill anything morethan ienttactstoshow
‘*1  ....*=-°-M M 2: ~::=:mm..... =.::-° -W "-°-.:-:.::~=-......*- -.::as case may 11 on e a : a

.....'***”*......:.“:,':. :.t.'.;‘.';'3.‘::'.“:...‘:. ::.":.°::.°.".,..." v:’°“...."°... 3.1:. .’........“°='"°" '“"°“* 3
8upremeCourtthetranscrlptoftheplead1ngs,and mojuagznengma zhouziocunn. of
exception so taken.” '

1:. Exception to charge. how and when msde.—Exoeptions to the
charge of aCourt should point out the specilic ortions of the char e exce ted
to, and should be made at the timeof the trial, fore the jury re 
v. Coleman et a1., 25 Cal. 123.

13. Exceptions to be attached to t rol1.—Bill of exc tlons
made during the progress of a trial sbou d,-under section one hundred e tyeight, one hundred ei hty-nineand two hundred and three of the Practice Act,
be written down, set ed and signed by Jud , lledin the case, and afterwards
annexed to the judgment roll. Morev. Del alle, 28 Cal. 170.

14. E-tors. how reviewed.—Error in law occurring at a trial, may be reviewed u n a bill of exceptions as well as upon a motion for a new trial.
Walls v. 25 Cal. 61. An order striking out a statement on motion for a
new trial, cannot be brought before the Supreme Court for review by a bill of
exceptions. Quivey v. Gambert, 32 Cal. 304.

15. Damnrrer sustained orioverr-uled.—Whero the transcri t-contained,
together with the judgment roll, a copy of an order, certined to y the clerk,
sustaining a demurrer to a replication, and there was no statement or bill of
exceptions: Held, that the appellate Court could not review the action of the
Court below, upon the demurrer. Bostuziclc v. Mc0orIcle, 22 Cal. 669.

16. Respondent. exceptions by, when reviewed.—It has been the «practice of the Supreme Court to examine the case onl upon the errors assi ed
h -the appellant, and not to look into the excep ons taken by respo ent.

aclcson v. Feather River Water 00., 14 Cal. 18,

11. Where the respondent takes no appeal—at least where he files no transcript and assigns no errors—the judgment will not be reversed at his instance.
Tracers v. Orane, 15 Cal. 12.

18. Onappeal, the Supreme Court notices only the errors committed against
tlhgecaspesollint, not those committed against the successful party. Frank v. Deane,

19. On a by a plaintiffffrom an order overruling a motion for a new
trial made him on the ground of insumciency of the evidence to justify
theverdict, an exception takenbydefendant on the trialtothe competency
of a  ago testined for plaintifff, will not be considered. Pierce .v. Jackson. .

20. More technical exceptions will be di.sregarded.—Whers the judgment seems right on the merits, this Court will not sustain more technical
axarjfnstakeninthecourseof thetrial,unless compelled bylawsotodo.
I_ ' .v. Johnson, 17 Cal. 107.

21. Exceptions to evidence, when revlewed.—Where a objects
to the admission of testimony on trial. he must state the point of s objection
at the time. General objection will not do. The party should lay his huge:
on the point at the time of trial, otherwise this Court‘ cannot review it.
Ihrtinv. Traverse, 13 Cal. 243.

22. Where a defendant's objection to the admission of testimony on the
trialisgeneral, hecannotbepermitted to make it epecialforthenrsttime in
this Court. People v. Glenn, 10 Cal. 32.

23. An objection to the sudicien of evidence should be made at the time
go same is ofetied to be introdrid so that a party hgvggie o pojrglunity

an e necessary e ence. Goodale .v. ' . ; v.
s...ua,"i’l’2:"3. 533.
24. An exception to the  of a deed in evidence must be taken

on the trial of the cause, at nisi pnus. The point cannot be considered on
a . Pearson v. Snodgraes, 5 Cal. 478; Postcn v. Rassette, Id. 467.
. Where the objection to the introduction of testimon was in nerel
terms that it was irrelevant, the objection will not be consi ered in e 811me Court, if the testimony could, under any possible circumstances, have
relevant. Drew: v. Domec, 18 Cal. 83.
26. A party cannot, by consenting -to admit evidence “ subject _to all 1
exceptions,” absolve himself from the necessity of taking exceptions to

relevancy or sumciency thereof, and devolve the responsibiliiz of discovering
whatever objections may exist on the Court below, and aRer shing for a verdict, for th; at time assign his objections in the Supreme Court. Covillaud
v. Ihnner, . 38.

§ 189. ‘The point of exception shall be particularly stated, etc.

The point of the exception shall be particularly stated,
and may be delivered in writing to the Judge ; or, if the
party require, it shall be written down by the clerk. When
delivered in writing. or written down by the clerk, it shall
be made conformable to the truth, or be at the time corrected until it is so made conformable. When not delivered
in writing, or written down as above, it may be entered in
the J udge’s minutes, and afterwards settled in a statement of
the case, as provided in this Act; provided, that if the Judge
shall, in any case, refuse to allow an exception in accordance
with the facts, any party aggrieved thereby may petition the
Supreme Court for leave to prove the same, and shall have
the right so to do, in such mode and manner, and according
to such regulations as the Supreme Court may, by rules, impose.

‘Amended 1863, 360. See further, 190 post.

[8ee§195,post, noteNo. 86, astothepractieewherealudge refuse to allowanexcept1on.]

§ 190. No particular form required.

No particular form of exception shall be required. The
objection shall be stated, with so much of the evidence, or
other matter, as is necessary to explain it, but no more ; and

the whole as briefly as possible.

1. Exception, sumoienoy o£—A general objection to the admissibili of
evidence is insumcient. P v. Apple, 7 Cal. 290; Kiler v. K‘ 10
Id. 268; Martin v. 1!-averse, 1 Id. 245. It is not good unless the evidence
objected to be absolutely incompetent, in which case such general objection
is available. N ig ' v. Soannell, 18 Cal. 315.

2. Where the object on to the introduction of testimon was in general term
that it was irrelevant, the objection will not be cousi ered in the Supreme
Court, if the testimony could under any possible circumstances have been relevant. Dreua: v. Domec, 18 Cal. 83.

3. Where the objection made to testimony is that it is lncom tent and illegal,
without a specidcation of the points of lncom etency or illega , it is the duty
(gig t(l3l0‘C:i1;t to overrule it if it is admissible or any purpose. need v. Osborn,

a . .

4. Where error is alleged in the exclusion of testimony, it must clearly
pear on the face of the exception that the testimony was, not that possibly t
might have been, relevant. Colon v. Jliclford, 15 Cal. 50.

5. An exception, showing that the Court ruled out the proffered statements of
the vendor of personal property, subsequent to his sale, without showing what

Lvu ' w

the statements were, is insumcient. The exception must show the statements to
have some pertinency to the matters in issue. Id.

6. Where a arty objects to the admission of testimony on trial, he must state
the points of objection at the time. General objection will not do. The
party should lay his finger on the point at the time of trial, otherwise this Court
cannot review it. Martin v. Tracers, 12 Cal. 243, Lost v. Wilson, 24 Id. 399.
See Robertsv. Chan 5linPcnetal, 23 Id. 259. ,

‘I. Where the objection to impeaching evidence was general, and the Court
excluded the testimony without amigning any reason, the Supreme Court will
presume in favor of the correctness of the action of the Court below; and the
appellant must show error to his prejudice, by putting his exceptions in the
proper shape. Balcer v. Joseph, 16 Cal. 177.

8. What lillol eaoeptlonahouldand should not embody.-—It is not
necessary to embody matter of record in a bill of exception. Johnson v. Sepuiusda, 5 CaL 151.

9. Documents and atlidsvits, to be reviewed by the appellate Court, must be
embodied in a bill of exceptions or record. Gates v. Buckingham, 4 Cal. 286.

10. Amdavits as to the incompetency of a juror must be embodied in a bill of
 to be reviewed by the appellate Court. People v. Stoneci fer, 6

11. Where the Court below charged the jury, among other things. that if they
found for plaintiff, he was entitled to recover the value of the use and occupation from October, 1853-—a period long anterior -to the commencement of the
action, the complaint not containing any averment as to the time when plaintiE’s
title accrued or existed, etc.—and the defendant excepted generally to all the
charge, and followed this general ex tiou up by a specification of certain portions of the charge to which his excep on was particularly directed : Held. that
this general exception did not cover the charge as to damages. Payne v. Treadwell, 16 Cal. 248.

12. Where an exception is taken to the decision of a Court refusing a nonsuit,
it devolves upon the iaintiii‘, on the settlement of the hill, to see that all the
evidence material for h in sustaining the decision com lalned of is inserted
in the bill of exceptions. Per Bxxnn, J. Ringgold v avcn, 1 Cal. 108.

13. Exception before a referee.-—A trial before a referee should be conducted in the same manner as before a Court, and the evidence should be embodied in a hill of exceptions and certified by the referee. Goodrich v. City of
Ev-ysville, 5 Cal. 431 : Phat v. Peabody, 7 id. 52.

14. When the referee exc udes roper testimony, or admits improper evideuce, or does any other act materia I affecting the ri hts of either party during
the progrea of the trial before him, than such party is ould except, and see that
the exception is truly stated in the report. Branger v. Chevalier, 9 Cal. 362.

15. Ends of reserving question of la1v.—Where the Court below tries the
cause without a 'ury, the pro or mode of reserving questions of law is to ask
the Court to d do them, an note the refusal in a bill of exceptions. Griswold v. Sharpe, 2 Cal. 17.

16. Where plaintifffs, having excepted to the ruling of the Court excluding
certain evidence, take, in consequence of such ruling, a nonsuit with leave to
move to set aside, they do not waive an of their rights as to the exceptions
taken. Objections to the introduction 0 evidence confined on appeal to the

unda§talk8¢:n below. Natoma W. it 1!. 00. v. Clarlcin, 14 Cal. 549. See
, , ante. '

§ 19]. When deemed excepted to.

When a cause has been tried by the Court, or by referees,
and the decision or report is not made immediately after the
closing of the testimony, the decision or report shall be

deemed excepted to on a motion for a new’ trial or on appeal,
without any special notice that an exception is taken thereto.

1. A report which is not made immediately after the close of the testimony,
by the one hundred and ninety-nrst section of the Practice Act, is deemed an
excepted to. Headley v. Reed, 2 Cal. 322.

2. - In case a decision or report by the Court or referees isomade immediately
after the close of the testimony it may be excepted to. Such exception is not
necessary to be taken in order to entitle the objecting party to move for a ne‘\"r
trialonan of thegroundsspecidedintheAct, orto maintain  if
the facts ound do not warrant the decision. In the matter of the of D.
0. Bowen, Jan. T. 1868. _

8. The one hundred and nin -nrst section of thePractieeAct, allowing
an exception to the decision at a ourt or referee, does not do away with the
necessityofaa theCourtto§ndthet'actsortheomittedfaeta,and~aotuzlglyexoeptingto eretusaltodoso. Lucasv. Oityofsanituunaieco, 88Cal.

TITLE XIX".

NEW TRIALS.

Srcrxox 192. New trial dedned.

193. When new trial may be granted.

194. When application for new trial to be made upon affidavit
or statement. ‘

195. Notice of motion for new trial; when andhow statemenm
or affidavits to be made and died.

198. Motion to be made without delay.

§ 192. New mu: defined.

A new trial is a re-examination of an issue of fact, in the
same Court, after a trial and decision by a jury, Court, or
referees. '

§1_93. Whenanewtrialmaybegranted.

The former verdict or other decision may be vacated, and
a new trial granted, on the application of the party aggrieved,
for any of the following causes, materially affecting the substantial rights of said party : °

lst. Irregularity in the proceedings of the Court, jury, or
adverse party, or any order of the Court, or abuse of discretion, by which either party was prevented from having a fair
trial. »

2d. Misconduct of the jury, and whenever any one or more
of the jurors shall have been induced to assent to any general or

specialeverdicgor to a jindingon any question or questions submitted to them by the Court, by a resort to the determination of
chance ; such misconduct may be proved by the .a§'idavits of any‘
one or more of the jurors.

3d. Accident ‘or surprise, which ordinary prudence could
not have guarded against.

— 4th. Newly discovered evidence, material for _:the- party"
making the application, which he could not, with reasonable
diligence, have discovered and produced-at the trial.

5th. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given
under the influence of passion or prejudice.

6th. Insufficiency of the evidence to justify. the verdict, or
other decision, or that (it) is against law. 1

7th. Error in law, occurring at the trial and excepted to by
the party making the application.

Amended 1868, 38. N. Y. Code, §364.

1. First subdivision.--A new trial will be ordered when there is such
irregularity in the proceedings that the ends of justice will be better subserved.
Banniebon v. Brown, 5 Cal. 58.

2. Where a judgment is rendered at nine A. I. upon a summons citing defendant to answer at ten A. 11.: Held, that the judgment is irregular, and a new trial
will be ordered. Parker v. Shepherd, 1 Cal. 132.

3. A verdict of ajury will not be set aside on the ground that one of the.
jurors “ knew and was aware of the circumstances connected with the affair,”

the snbjectmatter of the suit, when no objection to him was made until after
the verdict was rendered, and it not appearing that he had formed or expihessed-.
an opinion before the trial, or was in any way biased in favor of the p as.
Laurence v. Collier, »1 Cal. 37.
Q4‘: As to new trial because of an incompetent juror. Thompson v. Paige, 1&
77.

5. Where a jury are instructed to bring in a sealed verdict, and they retire,
and, after agreeing upon the verdict, seal it up and give it to the oicer in
elnrgle of them—the clerk being absent—-and request him to give it to the clerk,I
whic is done; and alter the meeting of the Court the following morning, the
verdict is opened, in the resence of the jury, and read by the clerk without
exception : Held, that this s not an error sunicient to warrant a new trial. The

oaseasion by such officer left the verdict as much in the possession of the Court

half as if it had been directlydelivered to the clerk. Paige v. 0’Neal, 12 Cal.
483.
6. . Under any circumstances, the withdrawal of a juror and the continuance
of a case thereby is no ground for reversing a judgment subsequently obtained.
Benedict v. C'ouens,4 Cal. 382. .

1. After a jury have once retired, it is error to allow them to come into Court
and receive instructions in the absence of the parties or their counsel. Redman
v. Gulnae. 5 Cal. 148.

8. Unless the irregularity complained of in the formation of the jury goes to
the merits of the trial, or leads to the inference of improper intluence upon their
conduct, their verdict should not be disturbed. Thrall v. Smiley, 9 Cal. 538.

S‘:   of ‘the J udgeb below cairnoitube revlepled in the
name urt,ex t oaseso'grossansetot ' f ep .
8mWov.Bills¢t,l6 .26. 9 mo ‘rt’

10. Where the facts show that theaction of the Court below approached nearly

to-an arbitrary exercise of its discretion, that action will not be reviewed. unlx
gfileae {ass been a motion for a new trial. Pilot Bock Geek 0aaa10o. v. Chapman,
a . 162. 11. Lower Courts have an enlarged discretion in the conduct of the businez
betorethemandwiththisdiscretion thea teCourtwillnotinterfero,
unleuiss Jmsromatively appear that injustice been done. Brnadus V. Ndson, . .

12. Two defendants filed a joint plea of the Statute of Limitations, and the
plea being held bad as to one defendant, the Court, on the trial, permitted the
other defendant to me a separate plea of the statute. Held, that this was no
such gross abuse of discretion as to enable the Supreme Courtto revise it.
Robinson V. Smith, 14 Cal. 254.

13. The allowance of an amendment to pleadings is a matter of discretian,
for the abuse of which only can the appellate Court interfere. Gillan v. Huhbo
insert, 16 Cal. 156.

14. Theallowance to me an answer afterdeunnrreroven-uled rests lnthe
discretion of the Court below, snb'ect to review, of course, in case of its arbior unreasonable exercise. hornton V. Borland, 12 Cal. 439.

1 . The discretion ofthe Probate Courtincertifyinganissueoffactjoinotl
therein for trial to the District Court, is subject to review by the Supreme
go(1;Lrt;4a3r;d, in case of gross abuse, wouldbe corrected. Kellerv. Fraulein,

16. Itrestsinthediscretion of the Court to allowfurtherevidence to be
introduced after the testimony is closed. Hoary V. Starbuclc, 4 Cal. 274.

17. Other instances.-—Where, in an action for personal propery, with damages for its detention, the verdict was for defendant, and ently the Court
below made an order granting a new trial, from which order d mdm 
to the Supreme Court, g1v_1ng an  for damages andcosta
three hundred and fort -esghth section of the Practice Act, and when the Court
below, against the obgction of the defendant, proceeded to try the cause a
second time, when plamtid had verdict and judgment: Held, that the judgment must be reversed, because the Court below could not roceed with 1
secorig  lujlstil the appeal from the order was determined. £31-d V. Thompson, . .

18. Where it is evident that the jury must have acted under a mistaken
:.r~°..=:'.-.-..°:=..:,-:2  °:;:,.......* °* '1" ...u“‘°:3°'c:: 3 W W °* i*~ 19. The fact that the officer having charge of the jury, after they had retired
to deliberate, was absent some minutes from the room in which he had placed
them, it not appearin that they were allowed to separate; and the fact that
some person outside e jury room spoke to armor, and that some of the
Lu:-ors spoke to two persons outside, it not appea what was said or that it

ad any reference to the trial; and the fact that after the $11 had agreed you
their verdict, and were brought into the Court room, ey were allow to
remain there in the nce of other persons while the officer went to the
porch in front of the urt room and waited some minutes for the Jt1d8°. it
not appeanéréf that any communication was had with the jury in the meantime,
areno su entgroundsforrequiring a newtrial. Peoplev.Bogge, IJCal.
432. Amrmed in P V. Symomds, 29 Id. 

20. _ erethein erence ofstrangerswith ejuryiaunattendedwith
eorruptroninthelatter, andhasnot been promsted lzaparty, and it doc
not appear that any injustice has thereby been one, e verdict will not be
giisturbed, whether the case be civil or criminal, a capital trial or otherwhe.

21. What latitude shall be allowed to a plaintid in introducingevidence in
rebuttal after defendant has rested, is entirely discretionary with the trial.
Oourt,anditsactioninthisrespectisnotsujecttoreviewupon appeal.
Brooks 7. C’ , 22Cal. 42.

22.Wherea emurrerisinterposedtoananswet-,andtheeauseistrledby
thecourtwithontdrst ' ' ofthedemun-er,andnoobjectionismade
atthetimeoftrial,itisnotsu anis-rwtyasentitleatheplaintifftoa
newtrial. 0aldenooodv.Tevls,23Cal. .

Has cs-£:ejudice onthe part of the Ju constitutes nolegal incanmsty.

bsiton trialofcause;norisitasum entgroundtoauthoriaea
of theplace of trial. The People v. Wm. Williams, 24Ca1. 84.

i3.1ttheCourt,afterthecaseissubmitted,examineabooksofaecountaa
evidence, which have not been given in evidence during the trial, a new trial
willnotbegranted for the irregularity, unless it is stated in the records to be
me th ch e

21. Anewtrialwillnotbegrantedinacriminalcasebecauseasherittakes
charge of the jury where a deputy sheriff‘ was sworn, nor because the Judge
inlorsns the jury, - ugh the sherif, that if the¥do not e in five minutes
they must remain in the jury room over night. eople v. ughcs, 29 Cal. 257.

25. The bare fact that evidence is brought to the notice of the jury out of
its regular order, is no ground for a new u-ial, if the evidence would have
been competent any stage of the trial. Bios v. Cunningham, 29 Cal. 492.

§. Where the dgment ot‘ the ap llate Court directs the Court below

' ent to render, a new ' in the Court below is not authorized,

5"?

F:-encisco,30Cal.458.
When-ethecourt overrnlesanobjectiontotheadmissibilityof evidence,
andadmitstheevidence,butwhenthe£ndi cometobedrawnchangeaits
opinion and comes to a diferent conclusion in that entertained when the
svi¢lencewasadmitted,therebyd:£rivingthepa|-tyotthe 'tyto
amendhispleadingaorintroducs erev1dence,anewtrial bsgranted.
Ca-pantie:-v.81nall,April'l‘.1868. 28. Second aubdiviaion.——Where the jurors agree each one to mark down
iseaumhethinksproper todnd as damages, and then to divide the total

amount of these sums by the number of composing the jury, which
result ahouldbe their verdict, averdiet us formed iairregular, andwillbe
set aside. Wilson v. an, 5 Cal. 44.

29. But if such means adopted merely to arrive at a proper result, for
the pugge of determining what the verdict shall be, without any being
bound e ,andafte1-wardthejuryagreeupon suchsumastheirvcrdict,
°°§"; r'§:di°mrbit' Id’ th e blin erdicts Id’
. uc ve 'tsareregardedin esame asgam gv ' . .
igahaiiremarkofajuror, durixlilg ab:.;.&.‘:?hme  was go

11 timeinu-pig’ to um e ,an t e erwo
thesthgortget hwo dwinthecasquwisnotsuchmiscowgcluctas
vitiate they ct. Thytorv. 0aliform'aStags0o.,6Cal.228.
. Whereaslipfromanewapa was handed byadeputysherifto the
,duringtheprogressof the ,containing mattersrelatingtothetrial.
not in eviden . and was perused by them, and the Court subsequently,’
discovery of the fact, instructed the jury that the slip was not in eviand that it should be wholly disregarded by them, and it a red
the  could not, from the character of the matter cont ' in the

haveprejudicedthel ' party: Held,nottobeagroundforanew.
Thrallv.8miley,9C‘%a-131539.

. The amendment of 1862 to section 193 of the Practice Act, allowing
affidavita of the jurors to be received to impeach their own verdict, relates
yto the remedy, and governs in all ap lioationa for newtriala made
ttsszmage, although theve-rdict and ju ent sought to be setaside
w e assent c any 0 was 0 ' a
The ngouiiaix th V" I; ' f eifedjhtgéu btamed by
to chance will be set aside. Id.
. The affidavits of jurors cannot be received for the purpose of impeachtheir verdict, unless it is a chance verdict within the meanin of the
subdivisioncf theonehundred and ninety-third sectionof ePracst at. Y. Tuolunmc County Water 00., 25 Cal. 400.
entered into an agreement that each should mark down upon
to ' 0! papa the amount which he thought the tits were
an torecover,e.nd_thattheseveralsumsthusmaredshoul¢_ibe
added together and the total amount divided by twelve, and that the quotient,

§$§§aE5§§3s§52s?

0


is

grounds on whi motion will be made. Wilcomson v. Burton,

entrenderedu nsuchanewtrial is null andvoid. Argentiv.’

whatever it t he, should be their verdict, without further consultation or
discussion. old, that this was not a chance verdict, within the meaning of
the second subdivision of the one hundred and ninety third section of the
Practice «Act. Held, further,’ that such verdict was vicious, and should be set
~19: 3‘. ":....° ‘*°*m.z::; ':::;“.‘.;*..°°.:"P°....*°“* '°°“':2:.*>'- 1°’; ...., .1.
. ‘ c ‘s v y oneo ejurymenmar isu
sum as he thinks proper, and then adding the several sums together and
dividing the total y twelve, and making the quotient the verdict, is not a.
chance verdict within the meani ‘of the second subdivision of section one
and ninety-three of the gractice Act. Boyce v. California Stage 00-,’
a . .

38. The verdict of a j ‘cannot be impeached’ by the affidavits of the
jo1:_ro1h1;n except dwhen the v ct is arrived at by a resort to the determination
e co. ‘ i '
  8«2.:vm.:s.°:..:~ :=9.“r*..,..°n..P°~ .;:,‘:':,.?°*.....*°’—*::s“:s we re. ...........,

. e o 3
except when the verdict is arrived at by a resort to the determination of
chance. People v. Hughes, 29 Cal. 257.

40. Third subdivision.--Surprise-is notof,'_itself ground for a new 
areduotion of damages. To authorize a newtrial or reduction of damages,
the I913:-ise alleged must be such that ordinary up dence could not have

againstit, andtheproceedingwhichcreatesitmust have prevented’

a presentation of thecase upon its merits. With the allegation of ~ stub

rizedthggrarty must show that he has been injured by it. Patterson v. Ely,
9 . .

41. Where the motion for ‘a ‘new trial is made on the ground of surprise,
the affidavits on which the motion is founded should set forth particulsdy
and distinctly the facts which the party eigcts to be able to prove by his
witnesses on anew trial: Held, where the davits did not set forth the factstd
which the gasp e ted his witnesses would testify, that a new trial was
przpervlly re ' v. Huie, 1 Cal. 429.

. he affidavits of the witnesses themselves should also, if practicable,
be procured, setting forth the facts within their knowledge, to which they
can testifyin case a new trial should be granted. Id.

43. More surprise at the evidence ‘van by the witnesses of the defendant
is not sumcient ground for granting e plaintiffa new trial. He should submit to a nonsuit, and not take his chances for a verdict. Live Yankee Cb.'v.
Oregon 00., 7 Cal. 40.

44. A new trial will not be granted on affidavit b a witness of mistake in
his testimony on the trial, unless there be a clear 0 ' of mistake; and,
mrther, that it was injurious to the party, and that he no means or had’
‘1]1.17Ie(¢3l"(ll.u;8° diligence to counteract the mistake or to correct it. Home v. Briggs,

45. Where a slight degree‘ of prudence would guard against rise,
iltl not sumcient ground tosllege for a new trial. Brooks v. Lt/on, Cal.

46. Surprise at the ' of the Court on the trial, as to the admission
gfzstestimony, is not groan for a new trial. Fuller v. Hulchings‘, 10 Cal.
’ 47. Where plaintins were permitted to prove and recover on a title
other than the one so set up, i was error in the Court. below to refuse a new
trial, the motion for which was based on affidavit of defendant that he was
taken by su rise, arising out of the frame of the pleadings, and that he
¢;(6)u(lglha8§e re utted plaintiffs case but for this surprise. Eagan v. Delaney,

48. Where ‘a motion for a new trial is made on the ground that the party
was taken by surprise at the trial by the non-attendance of witnesses, it
should a that the party had used reasonable diligence in endeavoring to
£13015; e attendance of his witnesses at the nrst tnaL Rogers v. Huie, 1

49. Surprise at the testimony of a witness called by the adverse party,
is no ground for a new trial, it not‘ appearing that the party against whom

thetestimony  beenmisledhypreviousstatementsofthe
gasses as to what would testify. 1bylorv.O'al(for-aiastage C'o.,6 Cal.

50. Plaintit herein havingrested his case n n proving his note, and defendant not introducing any proof of his  in insolvency, the Court
below instructed the jury to dad for laintiif, and afterwards set aside the
verdictand grantedanew trial: Held, tthistlourtwillnot revise the discretion of the Court below in granting a new trial; that defendant might well

have been taken by m$nu  it unnecessary to introduce proof
of his discharge. Sm‘ v. 15 Cal. 601.

51. A party who is unprepared for trial at the time of the calling of the case,
should move for a continuance, and if he ihil to do this, he waives his want of
Separation, and cannot afterwards, when judgment has one against him, move

r a new trial on this ground. Turner v. Morrison, 11 l. 21. .

52. It is not sumcieut for a new trial to aver that the party thus represen
was ignorant at the time of the trial of the facts. He must show that he could
not, with the use of due diligence, unmixed with an negligence on his art,
have made himself ac uainted with or ascertained e existence of the acts.
Williams v. Price, 11 I. 213. -.

53. The mistake of counsel as to the competency of a wituem is no ground
forgranting a new trial. Pacloer v. Heston. 9 Cal. 571. 64. Where one partyto an action is misled by the act of the other, justice
ti? thatanew trial should be granted. Pinlcham v. .McFarlaad,5 Cal.

55. In order to move for a new trial upon the ground of surprise, it must be
shown not only a surprise, but one that ordinary prudence could not guard
against; and to show that he has been injured by it; to show that upon a new
hearing he can make out such a title as would probably be not only a legal but
an equitable defense of the action. And he must also show what the title is.
Patterson v. Ely, 19 Cal. 28.

56. A new trial will not be granted on the ground of surprise at the introduction of false evidence when the evidence related solely to a oint not necesIarily involved in the decision of the action, and which, in fact, no iniluence
upon the judgment. Guy v. Hanly, 21 Cal. 397.

57. False testimony given by mistake or otherwise is sumcient to avoid a
Vu:dIet_ or decision Ibdased upon it, if ordinary prudence has been observed by

58. An aiiidavit of a party that he was surprised at the admission of a witness on the trial, because his attorney had advised him that the witness was incompetent, and that he was also surprised b the testimony of the witness in
lull? a certain conversation incorrectly, not sudicieut to authorize the
glaamnglg a new trial on the ground of surprise. K locloenbaum v. Pierson,

59. Where, during the progress of a trial, the existence or the materiality of
them evidence is tirst discovered, the party desirin such evidence should
move for a continuance until it can be obtained, and f ling to do this, he cannot have a new trial on the ground that the evidence was newl discovered Id.

00.Anewtrialvrillnotbe granted on ashowingaloneo ‘ ,which
°?dl-III’! prudence could not have guarded against, but it must be made

‘° ‘P _ that the moving party has a valid defense to some material grt of

'50 tiii"s cause of action, and that on the new trial the result ma 0 diffenntfrom thatonthenrsttrial. Coolcv. DeLa0ucn-act. a1., 24 al. 237.

,51- When a plaintifff fails to appear when a cause.is regularly called for

“TIL Ind at defendant’s request the trial proceeds and judgment is rendered

‘°1‘ ddendant, the Court has no power to relieve the plaiutaf from the judgmflnt under the sixty-eighth section of the Practice Act, on the ground of

‘milks, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. on a motion made after

3'0   term at which the judgment was rendered. Casement

“iii ii and can beo<f>b:i;(¢1ad in such cases, it:-get be by a mega for anus‘:

on eground entorsurpnse' ,w ordinary enceco
not lave guarded against. Id. pm '

oawheeen -toensetion-,puviousto&etIhlo!thesme.istoldUy
switnessdmthe testifyiuscertsinmsnnerinrelstiontosfsetnstslid
psrtyto '

trisl
1‘;-‘the Cisarpt-isedtoxnoveforseontixnusnoesttlnetixne. Bodnguav.
Thepsrtyslle.gmgsutpris_e‘dunngtheprogreuofs trial should shut

dur'mgutrisl.fsctsexistwhichsmounttolegslsurprise,thsseh¢
shouldbeshownbythenmdtvitsoftheettotnqmndnotofhiselient. Id.
60. Onsnspplioetionfors newt:-ishonthe thstthecourtdazied
seontinuance,me.crimins.laswe1lss in s ci case,the defendant should
psocuethe emdevitsofthe absent witnesses, thet.theycsnt£
to the facts sought to be.proved, or give good reason not ob&ning
smlsvits. P v. J 29 Cal. 562.
, 67.A.nerw willnot grantedinem-iminslcsse,ontheground-ofho
ing taken by surgrise by the testimony of s witness, unless the s£dnvih
shewthstthetestunonyotthewitnesswesnotu-ue. Id.
68.Anewt|-islonthegl-oundofigullnl-faviseshouldnotbe tedunleuit
olesrly up that the verdict is ' y attributable to the ts out of whid

thesurp resulted,sndthstthe ‘ hesnotraultedtmmthetsultos
negligeneeof the v. Ball, 290131. 615.
9. When, during the progress ofa trial, conditions are foundto exist

-whiohmsysmeunttol surpx-ise,1heOourtshould.ifnns 'csti¢nis

nsdethsx'efor,grsntt'eli atonoe,ifthefectssressuhus juiifytlll
Oourtinsettingssidetheverdictsfterthetrisl. Id.
70.IfthepsrtyolsimingtohsvebeensurprisedcsnreHevehimIelf,eilhc
by s nonsuit. a continuance, or the introduction 0! other testimony, or in
nu oH:etwsy,eudfsilstodoso,snewt1-islwillnotbegrsnted. Id.
1.Itdunngtheu-gumentofacssetothejury,sdisputesrinsbetweu
eounselsstowhethsrseertunps wssinh'oduosd1nevidenoe,undthe
Oourtdecidesitwaqthe ohnngtobesurprisedhythedecisiensllrul
spplyto-the Court at once orleavetointrodueerebu test.‘.mony,ifhe
.h£suehtestimony,snd,ifhefsilstodoso,s~newtrinl netbegnnted.
72.Thesp l1steCourtwillnotreversesnorderoftheOourtbelowdenyingsnewh1:R.eispgBed_foronthe-grmndofsupriu,unless~thuehubeen
:ebuog0 nm the Oourtbelowa-ehnng snewtrisl. Noonsyvt
78.InordeMosustsinsmotionforsnewu-isionthegwundotslnws,
thenqvingputymust show_~not onlysurprise, but thathe is injured it;
endtlnshemmtde showm§2whst‘eeseheesnestsblishintheeventots
newtrisl..Breolav.$osglase.A 011.208.

74. Fourth subdivision.—-On s motion for s new trial on the groundd
discovered evidence, the newly disoovaed evidence should be fully set
or the motion must be overruled. Pony v. Cochran, 1 0:1. 180.
new

_ 75. An s ‘cation for s new trisL on the at newly discovered evidence, nms show sHrxnstively that the evi once is ,- msterisl and not

cumulative; ihsttbe spplicsnthssusedduediligence in ' his case
fortrishsnd thatthe new ewidenoewssdisoovesedsltetthp sndwil
beimpol-tent, snd tendtoprove fsctswhich were not inisueou
the or even then known -or ingmted bvproof. v. Haydon,
30:1. ;Broohv.4l2“uyon,Id.114; ’

V. 00.. 7 Id.  Id. 399; 13600 Y¢lIIceo0n.

_-.16. Itvis mt gcodgnund lora newtrial, that the deleudant discovered
lsterialtestimonyattcolateuifei-led to. produce the same atthetrial. It
ouwhichto baseamotionforcontinuance.

of  testimony, newl discovered evidence, merely
duulativqhnogroundfcranewtrial. ylorv.0al'Ubmic8lago0o.,6

newtrialcnthegrcundofnewlydiIcoveredevidence,ahouidnotbe
jantedwheresuchevideneeismerelycumulativgandisthatolawitneei
whose deposition was used on the trial, and particularly where the verdict
Iewsthatlhe jury disbelievedhisnrst statement. Gavcnv.Dapman,5

ought not to rely upon his own single unsupported statement,
h an. or 3 ng trlal, gifkmeofneawly discovers: evidence, but ghoaild, if
pom: , procure dds e w ose testimony e cams
sothattheoourtmaybeeoédtgdnrstowhatfactshewill ;
v Oal.488. Iftheaffidavitscfsuchpersons cannotbe
in time, additionaltime should be applied for. Jenny Lind 00. v. BowN. liotionsfornewtrial,cnthegroundofnewlydiscoveredevldence,ars'

:anled with dist:-ustand disfavor, and the strictest showings! diligence and
other facts neccsearyis required. This is especiall truewhenthenew
tndimcayistoimpeachawitnessonthetrial,orismerelycnmuiative. The
partymust showbyhisown affidavit that he :1 not known!‘ this evidence,
and ‘due diligence have obtained t; the amdsvit of awitness is
=IQ‘:l9!!t. Inthiscasethepartyhimserwaspreunt] ‘Balm-v. Joseph,

.8l.Whereitdidnot:appearthatthe defendanthadmadeanyeaortste
hsvehiswitnesaessu ortoproc_uretheiratte‘ndauce,,untilthemom~
Qetthe dayforw chthecausewassetdown icrtriahandonwhiehit
Ietuallywastried: Hctd,that the pet-tyhadnctused ' diligeuce,and

was

istdiedecisicnefthebistrictoourtreiustnganew correct. Rogers
V.HI'c, 1 Oil. 439

llAnewtridwmnotbegranted,cnth:groundofnewlydiscoveredevi&nce,whichisallegedtobeadeed,record inthe ‘ recordefsomoe
Iy_earbei'orethetrla1,'andtherecordofajudgmentin sameOourtin
wlnchthecausewastried. Wetmerv. Lowery, '1lCal. 104.

03. Where -the ’ of a referee disclosed some hesitation and doubt in

lnlvlnaattheconc oiiact,andafterthe:¢3orthadbeenmadeup,‘but
before was-illedthedefendsntappliedtothe emeeforleavetointroduce

discovered evidence, which was refused, from a doubt as to his ‘

, lleatthe same time intimating to the Court, in a su plemental report, that if

hehaewi diecoveredevidenoehadbeenad cnthet:-ial,thei-esult
‘Mid pro ibly have been diferent: Held, under the circumstances, itwas
C'!orinthe'Oourthelowtoretnse anewtrisl. Hoytv. Saunders, 40al.845.

Sianewtrialwillnotbegrantedbecauseofthediscovei-yofnewevidence
Vhchismerelycumulative, and which,ii' ced, wouldonlytendtoconiadictawitness cf the oppcsingparty. v.Pierson,9£Oal.l60.

86. Where,'upon the tnal, the genuineness of a signature is putinissue
Illlmadethesubjectofprooi, anew trial will not be granted on account

a new trial is based newly ‘discovered eviMice, or that the verdict is gust evidence, an  is vested
Oourthelomandthe preme Court will rareyinterferewith action
Wmww anwkhl. 0’BHenv..Brady,B30al.248.
discov , evidence, which is mere! cumulalire. aicrds no
Nilndforanewtrial. Spence:-v.Daane,23Cal.49. , p
‘33. The discovery of new evidence,-which is merel ‘cumulative, alfcrds no
lmllndioranew trial. Aldrichv. Palmer-eta1s.,24 al. 515.
3- adeir whceepropertyhasbeenattached,nlesanevasive
Hlw§underooth,1°rhiuhadInitI the indebtedness sued on,aad then,on a

trial between an intervenor, a subsequent attaching creditor, and the plaintig
without intimsting that he would do so, testides that the debt was not due, at

is sufficient cause for s new trial, on the ground of surprise. Ooghill é Co. 7.
Marks, 29 Cal. 673.

90. Fifth subdlvision.—The Court will set aside a verdict, where the darnages given are unjustinable. McDaniel v. Bees, 2 Cal. 396.

, 91. It is a proper exercise of wer in a Court to grant a new trial, on the
ground of excessive damages, w ere the verdict is grossly inconsistent in its
relation to the facts. Potter v. Scale, 5 Cal. 410.

92. The rules by which Courts are governed in setting aside the verdicts of
juries, on the ground of excessiveness of damages, considered. Payne 7. The
Pacijlc Mail 8. S. 00., 1 Cal. 33.

» 93. In an amdsvit for a new trial, the all tions of the amant, that “as he
is in armed and believes, the damages asseeszg were excessive, and more than
co dbe recovered on a fair trial of the action,” is insumcientss a statement
of a meritorious defense u n which to justify any disturbance of the verdict.
The facts should be stag from which the Court can perceive whether the
damages are excessive, and whether on another trial there would be any Eability of a verdict for a less amount, or that there is any defense to the '

Patterson v. Ely, 19 Cal. 28. 94. Itis not error in the Court below to refuse a new trial, provided the
§u  party will consent to a reduction of his judgment. Chapta v. Bola-us,
' 95. An ejectment case tried by the Court found that plaintid’ was entitled to
the possession of the premises, and that the damages were 81,666, and gave
judgment accoriiligigli. It appears from the evidence that plaintifff was only
entitledtoone- , ebeingatenantincommon with another not a
to the suit, and, on a motion made for the p , the Court set ‘ the
judgment and ordered a new trial. The plain ' concedes that the judgment
should not have been for one-half. but insists that he should have been odstred
to remit the excess, and only on his refusal to grant the new trial: Held, that
the new trial was greoeperly granted, it being discretionary with the Court ; if
the Jwudgment had n that plaintifff was entitled to the ‘pgieession of one-half
of premises as tenant in common with another, ' Court ' t have
corrected the judgment as to damages, and made it conformable to e indlng But in this case both correspond. Clark v. Huber, 20 Cal. 196.

.Where arelaidatacertainsuminadeclaratiomthegdgment
will be reversed i the jury render a verdict for a greater sum. almer v.
Reynolds, 3 Cal. 396. But the excess may be remitted and the judgment
stand. Pierce v. Payne, 14 Cal. 420. V

97. The laintif recovered judgment against the defendant for $1,000, that
sum being e amount of damages awarded by a j before whom the cause
wastried. On motion for a new trial, the Judgeo First Instance ordered
that the judgment should be set aside, and a new trial granted, unless he
would consent to remit four hundred dollars of the j ent which had been
rendered in his favor. On ap from this order: that this Court hsd
jurisdiction of the apgieal, an the order was reversed and set aside. Payee
v. The Pacific M S. . 00., 1 Cal. 33.

98. It seems that a verdict for $3,000, in a suit on an attachment bond,
where no property has been levied on under the writ of attachment exce

real estate, in the possession of which the debtor has not been distur
Billl4b10od60lIl.6d excessive and reversed on that ground. Heatliv. Lad, 1

a . .

99. In an action for a malicious prosecution, wherein an attachment was
issued, the  gave 315,000, and where no misconduct was shown on the

of the j , and it was not ed that the verdict was given under

e induence o passion or prejudice, e Court could_not disturb the verdict,
15131888 685it clearly appear that injustice had been done. ‘Weaver v. Page, 8

100. Where the aggregate value of articles in a lost trunk, as testidedto by

plsintid, is 82,670, and the jury return a verdict for $350, it is not an abuse

of discretion bythe In to t a newtrial on the und of excemive
Julia Gould all v. rlc Emily Banning, Oct. . 1867. _
101. Plaintiif, a woman of color. being desirous to take e on one

oi the street cars of defendant, hailed the conductor; he 'sregarded her

signal. andbyreasonof hisdeclining tostopshewasunableto etu nthe
at. It was also proved, under objections from the defendant, that a conductor on ° urged by a lady passenger in the car to stop for the laintiif,
replied, “We on’t take colored people in the cars;" and it wasp further
proved, that there was ample room for plaintifff, and that she was ovided
with the usual e tickets, and was ready and willing to pay or fare.
Therewss no proof 0 any special damage or malice. The jury returned a
verdict for the laintin‘ for $500. Held, that the damages were excessive.
Plaasanlsv.N. .¢i:M.R.R. 00., AprilT. 1868. A

102. Sixth subdivision.—The general rule is, that the appellate Court will
notdisturb a judgment, or verdict, or tlnding. or order denying a new trial or

granting a new trial where there is a substantial conflict in the testimony, and A

no rule of law appears to have been violated. The Supreme Court has often
held that it would not interfere with the verdict of a jury on the ound that
such verdict is against the weight of evidence, except in extraord nary cases.
It is almost impossible for on appellate Court to satisfy itself in a decisionupon
nchmatters—so much depends upon the manner. bearing, character of witnesses, and the peculiar circumstances which the trauscri t falls to preserve,
which give value and weight to testimony. Kimball v. rhart, 12 Cal. 27;
lOId.446; 14 Id. 167; Johnson v. Pendleton, 1 Id. 133; Scannell v. Stralale, 9
H.177; Weddle v. Stark, 10 Id. 301; v. Atwill, 12 Id. 240; Ritterv.
Rock, 12 Id. 402; Mcaarrit v. Byington, 12 d. 432; Visher v. Webster, 13 Id.
50; Stevens v. E-win, 15 Id. 04; Adams v. Pugh, 7 Id. 150; Ritchie v. Bradshaw,
511]. 228; Knowles v. Joost, 13 Id. 620: Brown v. Smith, 10 Id. 508; Gagliardo
v.Hoba-lia, 18 Id. 394; Lewis v. Oavillaud, 21 Id. 178; Oullahan v. Sta:-buelc,
I1 Id. 413; Tbbbsv. Weather-wac. 23 Id. 58; Preston v. Keys, 23 Id. l93; Lubeclc
V. Bullock. 24 Id. 338; Ellis v. Jeans. 26 Id. 275; Wilcoccson v. Burton, 27 Cal.
23!; WilIa‘ason 7. Permit. 32 Id. 102. ‘

103. This rule applies to law and equity oases alike.—0n an appeal
from an order denying a new trial in an equity case, the appellate Court, under
thesystem of practice in force in this State, will appl the same rule with reference to balancing contllctln testimony, which it won d if it had been an action
Atlaw. Doe v. Vallejo, 29 al. 386. 104. But this rule does not apply when the evidence in the Court below
consisted of depositions. Wilson v. Dickson, DeWolfe &: 00., July '1‘. 1867.

105.'.l.1nesameruleapplissto the report of commissioners appointed to assess the damages and estimate the benedts resulting from the
vndeningoi’ a street, and to the judgment of a Court amrming the report,
there the commissioners make a personal inspection of the premises, with
even greater force than two verdicts, or dndings of a Court based on evidence
tgane. Appeal of Piper, 32 Cal. 530; Appeal of Brooks and Josephs, 32 Cal.

106. The same rule applies‘to Endings ‘by referees.—The decision ‘of a

referee upon a guestiou of fact will not be set aside, where the evidence upon '

Inch question is coniiicting, and where the testimony of some of the witMiles, if credited, supports the dndin . Brady v. Brown, 20 Cal. 520.

1iTl.ACourt has-powertosetasiethe reportofarefereeand nta
new uial, on the ground that the evidence before the referee was ins cient
tnhstify his decision. Oappe v. Briuolara. 19 Cal. 607.

108. Referees’ report: and awarda—When the appellate Court will disinrb their reports, iindings, awards. Bee 9 187, ante. note No. 12.

109. Other instanoos.—The admission by the Court, under the objections
of defendants, of improper evidence ofered by plaintiff to prove a fact alliged in his @mp  angiunlgggi tales answer, is no cause for grantnew trial. v. c , . .

110. If the verdict is against the weight of evidence, but there is 13$]
some evidence to justify it, a newtrial will not be granted on the gonna
the evidence is insumcient to jns  the verdict. Kile v. Tubbs. Cal. _
' 111. Where it is evident that the jur must have acted under a mistaken impression as to the eifect of the evi once, or in total disregard of it, a new
tial wilibeord ~ Hinturn v. Bun-,20Cal. 48.

1la.8upresneoourt willnot welgh,butwillreviewthe
when.—'l‘be Bu reme Court will not attemgt to weigh the evidence and decide
between condict ng statements. Peta-is v. ugbey et at , 24 Cal. 419. But it will
always review the evidence, it‘ the oint is made that the verdict or judgment is
oonn-ary to the evidence, and if ey had there is a substantial conllrct in the
same, so that the jury might lind either way without becoming obnoxious to
:1: charge of passion, prejudice, misconce tion or caprice, the verdict will not

disturbed. Rice v. ' ham, 29 Ca . 492.
113. The appellate Court wi I decline to review the facts of the case, nnles

an assignment of errors shows that the Court below refused an application for
I new trial, made on the ground that the verdict was contrary to evidence, and
that only as an appeal from the refusal to grant a new trial. Smith v. P
2Cal. 121; G1-iswoldv.Slaa2pe, 2 Id. 23; Whitman v. Sutler,3 Id. 119.
further, § 333, No. 1-7. _ »

114. Pacts will not be reviewed unless a new trial was asbad.—'.l‘he
appellate Court will not review the facts of a case unless a new trial was asked
in the Court below. Brown v. Graves, 3 Cal. 118; Smith v. Phelps, 3 Id. 120;
91-isiooldv. SM:-pe,Id. 17; Ingrnhamv.Giidermcster, Id.483; Broscav. Iblio.
7 Id. 398 - Bhinev. Bogardus, 13 Id. 73; Liming v. Gould, Id. 598; Eileen 1.
Pack. so Cal. 230. e

115. The ilndings of the jury on lanes submitted to them in an equity case, if
not objected to by motion for new trial, or if not set aside by the Conrton it
own motion, become established lhcts in the ease, and cannot be questioned h
the Supreme Court for the lirst time. M v. Fisher, 15 Cal. 375.

116. The lindings of fact in the Court below will not be reviewed on appeal,
unless there was a motion for a new trial; and this, whether the case be in
eéqailrit 9:!‘ at law, tried by a jury or by_'the Court. Gagiiardo v. Hobs»-lbs, 18

117. See further. sec. 195 and notes thereunder.

ll8.Whenthesupremecourtwnl,andwnlnet,astasidsajndgment. verdict. iinding. or order, on considering the evidenee.—Wheee
there is a conflict of testimony on any question of hot, the Supreme Court will
not ordinarily disturb the linding, but where the testimony is all one way on
‘any one point essential to sustain the judgment, and the ilnding is contrary to
the evidence, a new trial will be granted. Lylev. Rollins at als., 25 Cal. 440.

n

Nor will the Court set aside the find gs and grant a new trial‘, on the ground
that the findings are not warranted by the evidence, unless the evidence was

such that if the uestions had been submitted to a ju . the Court would set
aside the verdic : as contrary to evidence. Moore v. urdoclc, 26 Cal. 534.
But where the findings of the Court are not warranted by the evidence a new
trial should ‘be granted. "Bolton v. Stewart, 29 Cal. 615; also, where there is
no evidence upon a ‘point essential to sustain the verdict, a new trial will he
ordered. Owamias v. Scott. 30 Cal. 83; or where the verdict is so clearly
against evidence as to leave no room for doubt. Hill v. Bruit, 39 Cal. 166'
but where the verdict of the jury is clearlyagainst the evidence, a new trial
will be awarded. Bagiey v. Eaton, 8 Cal. 159.

119. If in an action torecover lands,the testimony of live witnemes who
know the premises, on a question of damages, is contradicted by one who testilles with respect to a much larger tract. including thengremises in dispute, but
without knowing their location, it is not such a co lot of testimonyas will

reclude the a pellate Court ii-cm setting aside a dnding in accordance with

e testimony o the one. Carpentier v. Gardiner, 29 Cal. 160.

120. The presumption of law is that the evidence warranted the verdict.-—If the Jury in their verdict necessarily pass an a material question of

hotthe up eilato Court will not reverse thejudgnent, on theground tlmt here
us no e dence to warrant the verdict. unless a motion made foranew
tr'nl,sad a statement made which shows that no evidence was iutcduced to
prove the hot. The: presumption ofthe law is that there was evidcueeto sustain every. material fact found by the jury. Doll 17. Anderson, 37 Cal. 250.

121. Where there is no issue tendered in the pleadings upon- a material mattunthe Court or ' will not bepresumed to have found on such matter.

Ugdv. ' 89 l. 589.
. These Court is.net_ authorized to presume the iinding of a fact
not within the e. Berna! v. Gicim, Oct. T. 1867. ‘

12-3. Bevenm lubdhlidon.-—'-Forerror of law excepted to, anappealiies
rithoutmotion for new trial. Bios v. Gasltiris, 13 Cal. 58.

124. The grantinganonsuiton the factsisa question of law, and if the
ma exception be taken. may bereviewed on ap without motienior new

' Craven: v. Dewey, 13 Cal. 42; Durst v. Bus , 14 Id. 83.

125. A verdict obtained upon incompetent evidence may be set aside; but
this cannot be done if the evidence were admitted without objection; nor can
itbe done upon the ground that effect was given to the evidence by the jury,
even if objected to. Ilodloudv. O'Neill, 16 Cal. 392.

126. On motion for new trial, on the sole ground that the verdict is notsushined by the evidence, the Court «below, in passing on the motion, cannot disregard any portion of the evidence before the jury. The question
ate the corn cy of the evidence cannot be raised on such motion. Id.

127. In suc that which vitiates the verdict is the error of the Court
 yandifthezgrtyseekingtosetasidethe verdictbe
satin podhon to take advantage of error, he cannot object that the evideuce was ' properly admitted. Id.

13. Where improperevidence is submitted to the jury, under objection, a_
nevlrialwillbegrantedon ,unlesstheCourtcanseethat such evinot possibly have an effect 11 n the jury prejudicial to the
appellant. v. Steamer Senator, 1 Cal. -16 And the presumption is that

was E esal. Id. 93.

189. ' a suit to recover goods on the ground of fraud in the vendee, the
admission of evidence that he was insolvent two months am: the urchase is
not sumcient to reverse the judgment, unless it is clearly shown the evisndinjunous to the party objecting.  v. Boring.

 'evidencewasgiven,which might havehadaninhenoeonthemin ofthe' indeterminingwhethercertainpremisesin
iipetswergoincluded m  portion ofhtlg %siondDolol1‘-‘es wléielgl was
illlledto connscated,or rtionwi waesaito ve uraI_erved:_Held, thatsnew trialsho begrantedonthe undo! theadmis"‘i'§:?'vi'?.‘2'J;§.“a;“a"‘.£.?”pu.."' S‘-’..'.“‘”““:.~.....':' .e...,”°’°" 333% city of 3... Francisco’ .

street'begi‘ng laid 0n:;)1‘:; the asters of the bay) is fan o}:st1Rot.ijon to ting
use estreet e u 'c,isaquestionof actor e ;an
Ihenthst question was not so stpibmitted, a newtrial was  “K. City
ofsaslvl-sacisoov.0lork,lCal.386. . _
e no
"1 “..".'.’.......°““"...“:.‘..".§'.’.‘3§‘.’.‘¢."“.‘.’ °‘:.“f.f...'i‘°..’:n"i’,.’§‘.‘2..'F‘.2‘21 ‘.‘:£§.?:.' °.’;‘1‘.°.‘..:J..‘:
‘on has been given b the District Judge, which may have iniiuenced
Insvardict. Yong: v. Paoijizi Mai! S. S. 00., 1 Cal. 854.
13°’ “3 ‘*.':'..‘?'° °.i’.'a“ Di?“ J“ ‘°pp.."‘° ’“{i.‘i".‘£.“" "° “'33 ‘$2
, n co in ‘ wa , ' its r e ' co n
mocha: misled by it, a new trial willynot be granted, altthiloughrgome of the
hdrlcio mayinslightres bereugnanttoeacho er. C'an-mg¢on' v.
"*;°*.£°.’§.’:.f...‘°°""’"':.°.°s ‘c::;:’.?,~ I - . ..n .. .. ........
. On‘ 0 8 HIGH On 9
gfjf. Vim thus vie‘:v€ld,notlt:e)°ca‘:1is;;l1; Jtlsgnave been fairly prtistaiutedsgtéi
g  s  ‘V.  ’ '
l£.nAn erroneous construction will be disregarded, if the jury cameto the

prgplergiliderstending, and rendered a correct judgment. Haelcelv. J{c&.m-y,
. 136. Though instructions may not be technically correct, yet if the questions upon which the case turns, seem to have been fairl put to the
jury, and the verdict sustained by the testimony, the Supreme &urt will not
terfere. Smith V. Harper, 5 Cal. 329.

. 137. The Supreme Court will not disturb the instructions of the District
Court tothe jury, on the ground there was no evidence upon which to ‘base
them, when there was some evidence, although it may have been slight. Perlberg v. Gorham, 10 Cal. 125. . _

138. Exceptions to erv‘ldence.—If an objection is taken to evidence by
counsel, and the objection is overruled by the Court, and no exception is
taken to the ruling, the presumgtion is that the counsel acquiesced in the ruling. Turner et al. V. Tuohmme ounty Water 00., 25 Cal. 404.

139. Special cases of immaterial errors. in admitting or excluding
evidence.—’l‘o entitle an objection to notice, it must not only be onamaterial
matter, aiecting the substantial right of the parties, but its point must be
particularly stated. The party must lay his hnger on the point of his objection. Kilcr v. Kimbal, 10 Cal. 267. ,

. 140. Anew trialwill notbe granted on account of the admission of improper evidence to prove a fact not material to the decision of the action, and
independent of which, the verdict is supported. Olarlc v. Lockwood, 21 Cal.
220.

141. A judgment will not be reversed on account of the admissions of inpro 0Vld;2ll(é0alWgl.4(g1 is mere surplusage and immaterial to the issues. Mile
V. , . .

142. A... a witness for plaintifff, when cross-examined, was asked uestions
by defendant, which, on plaintid 's objection, were erroneously rul out by
the Court. Defendant afterwards called the same witness and asked the
same questions, which were answered without objection. Held, that the judgment would not be reversed by reason of the error committed by the Court,
as defendant had sufered no inj thereby. Hicks V. Whiteside, 28 Cal. 404.

143. If the Court errs in the  ‘on of testimony during the trial, but
afterwards instructs the jury to disregard such testimony, the error is not sufilcient to entitle theggmiy atgecting to the testimony to a new trial. Union
Water 00. v. Orary, C . .

144. If in the course of a trial a portion of laintifs evidence is excluded
by the Court, and a nonsuit is granted and judgment rendered for defendant,
and an order afterwards made granting a new trial, from which defendant
appeals, and the record contains the evidence excluded, and the Court of
review comes to the conclusion that if the evidence excluded had been admitted plaintid’ could not have recovered, the order granting a new trial will
not be reversed. Merle v. Mathews, 26 Cal. 467.

145. A Court of review will not reverse the ju ent of an inferior tribunal for errors committed in excluding evidence, i the evidence excluded is
contained in the record, and it appears that the complaining would not
have been entitled to recover if the evidence had been admitted. Id.

146. If incompetent testimony is admitted without objection, the Court
will treat the testimony as com etent on motion for nonsuit, and on motion
for new trial. Janeen v. Broo , 29 Cal. 214.

147. If the Court refuses to allow the defendant to amend his answer, and
then allows him to introduce his evidence on the point to which the amendment referred, and it appears from such evidence, and the facts found upon
other issues, that the amendment is material, no injury results from the re judgment will not be reversed on that ground. Jones V. Block, 30

a . .

148. If there is uncontradicted testimony sumcient to warrant the Verdict
of the jury, the judgment will not be reversed because there was some irrele%n&‘tLes;i6z::3iony admitted upon the point in issue. Zeiglerv. Wells, Fbrgo d: 00...

; nor,

.149. If the verdict is ' the w t of evidence, but there is still some
evidence to justify it. ile v. Tubbs, 2 Cal. 322 ; nor,

150. If the evidence was conflicting, even thou h the Judge who passed on
the motion for anew trial did not preside at t e trial, and for that reason
declined to review the evidence. Rice v. Ounningham, 29 Cal. 492.

151. An erroneous ruling by the Court, in excluding certain testimony, is
not a ground for a new trial where, from the mode of submission to the jury
and their tinding.itis evident that the testimony olfered could have had no induqnce upon the verdict. Carpenter v. Norris, 20 Cal. 437.

152. The objection that the evidence does not warrant the judgment, can be
entertained only on motion for a new trial. James v. Williams. 31 Cal. 211.

153. Giving a wrong reason tor a deoision.—An order rantin a new
trial will not be reversed because the reason assigned for grant ng it a bad
tgiceéplmvided there was a good reason for granting the same. Bolton v. Stewart,

. 615. ‘

154. The a pellate Court, in reviewin an order granting a new trial, is not
confined to e reasons assigned by the curt below in granting it. Id.

; 155. If the Court below makes an order grantin a new trial, and for any
muse the order was correct, the a llate Court not set it aside because
the reason assigned for it may have :1 wrong. Grant v. Moore, 29 Cal. 644.

156. An order granti.ng a new trialdoes not stand or fall upon the reasons
which the Court making the order assi ed for it, but upon all the facts in
the record. Ooghill at 00. v. Marks, 29 673. '

157. Immaterial error, other lnstances.—It is useless to put parties to
the additional trouble and expense of a new trial, when we see clearl that
after, perhaps, a rotracted litigation, the result mustbe the same. To .7.
Folsom, 1 Cal. 21 ; Smith v. Compton, 6 Id. 26.

158. A new trial will not be ted where the evidence shows that a case
cannot be made out, and it wo d consequently be a useless expense. Sunol
v. Hmbum, 1 Cal. 285. A new trial will not be nted for an error by which
the rights of the were not prejudiced. dburn v. Ritchie, 2 Cal. 148 ;
Igier v. Green, 28 al. 206 ; Carpentier v. Gardner, 24 Cal. 160.

159. Where the instructions of the Court, though incorrect in law, are all
isricfzvog-‘of the defendant. he cannot complain of the error. Gaven v. Dopman,

. 2.

160. An error in an instruction which does not militate aginst the appelhnt. 0!‘ a mere want of rs icuity on the part of the Court lowin framing.
instruct: pdnxi’

‘one, is not a of reversal. People v. Moore, 8 Cal. 94.

161. Anewtrial notbeorderedbecauseofinaccnracyinthelanguage
9! a ilnding of hot, when it is sumclently distinct as to the material question
Involved in the-action. McKinney v. Smith, 21 Cal. 374.

162. A new tn'alwill not be granted on account of the ving of instructions
90 lhejury which could not have injured the party comp ' . Ibmpkine v.
ldhoney, 32 Cal. 231.

163. A judgment will not be reversed for an error favorable to the appellant.

Wilkinson v. Parrott, 32 Cal. 102.

164. Where a new trial has been granted by the District Judge, in the ablance of an amrmative showing of error, his ruling will be deemed correct.
Pdgev. O'Brien, Oct. '1‘. 1866.

165. Special cases, where new trials were granted. judgments modimd. oto.—Where the merits of the case were not investigated in the lower
Courts, by reason of an uncertain as to the roper mode of proceeding
under the anomalous provisions of e Practice ct relating to interventions,
the Supreme Court awarded a new trial, although the decision of the Court
below u n the main question involved was approved, and the only error
51501 might have been cured by a direction to modify the judgments.

v. I hmds, 21 Cal. 280. _

1 . When the com laint, evidence as admitted, the verdict, and judgment,
In in harmony, but the judgment is erroneous by reason of a wrong conllrnction given to the description of land ina deed in evidence, the Supreme

Court cannotmodiaibythe ' but willreverse itandgrantanew-trial.
Hiclcs 7. Coleman, Cal. 1 .

167. Where several defenses are pleaded, either of which is good in law, and
the verdict is for the defendants, and the Court err: in its instructions to the
jury as toone ofthedefenses, the 'udgrnentwill bereversed, unless itis mado
toa . thattheverdictwasren eredononeof thedefenses in rehtion to
whic noerrnrwascommitted. Wisesnanv. MoNuityetaL, 25Cal. 831:.

168. If adefense should be specially leaded, the omission to plead it in
not cured b the introduction without obgection of evidence in sup of it.
endthennchngofthefactinrelationtoitbythecourt. M30 v.Reid,
28 Cal. 281; Smith v. Owens, 2l,Cal. 11.

169. Where the jury, without particular instruction from th.e.Court, return
a verdict yable in gold coin, thou h there was no evidence that either on or
after stzrihfng a balance between e parties the defendant promised in
writin tosgayin gold coin,anewtrialwillbe Howardv.Boebca,
Oct. . 1 7. Seefurthergpost, §245, Nos. 41 .

170. New trial in equity cases.--The Practice Act applies as well to legal
as equitable actions, so far as its provisions are consistent with the ri ts and
remedies administered in Courts of equity. And the on] way in the
Verdict of a jury on issues submitted can be reviewed, is y motion for new
h'ial—except, probabLv, that the Court, whether sitting ' uity or on the
trial of a common law action, ma , of its own motion, set  the verdict of
:(i3:lu?75vvhen clearly and palpa y against the evidence. Du] v. Fisher, 18

171. There is no substantial diference between a rehearing in an eqgz
case, which opens the decree and places the case before the Court for "
anew, and a new trial in a case at law, tried and decided by the Court. Riddle
v. Balcer, 13 Cal. 295.

172. The Court below may refuse a new trial, even though both parties consent to it. Such refusal to grant a new trialis no ground of error, particularly
in an equity case where there may have been no necesai? for a new trial; as
upon application to the Court upon the pleadings an facts before it. the
proper decree might have been rendered, notwithstandi the verdict ; or, if

the error corrected by appeal. Phelan v. Ruiz, 1 Cal. 90.

174. i’ no appeal is taken from an order denying a new trial, the appellate
Court cannot review the evidence to determine whether the verdict or tln
are sustained by it. The practice is the same in all cases, whether at law or
equity. Green v. Butler, 26 Cal. 699.

175. when equity will andwill not interfere.--Where a pantyrnovesfor
a new trial and fails, he cannot, on the same faetazgo into equity and enjoin
the0judglllImi>turenl‘aer§d. 0 ‘them ill ’ “fad. 2 tioa against his gusto

newo ysnduri pen'ngoanac rto
mcovergouusiou oi‘it,w,i a notice of the suit,snd n lects to defendtt
until ju gment is obtained against his grantor, and then ts to nave for a
113;?-:tll'ia‘l,44cannot obtain a new trial in a Court of equity. Mastic): v. Tharp,
a . .

176. Acourtofequ willnotgrantanewtrial in an action stlawwhu-e
the applicant knew of e rendition of the judgment against him inthelsv
action in time to have moved for a new trial in the law Count. 14.

177. A part cannot maintain an action in a Court of equity to set aside a
judgment a ust him rendered in a Court of law, and obtain a new t without showing that he had no opportunity to more for a new trial in law
Court, by reason of some mistake, accident, or surprise, unaccompanied by
an iault or negligence on his part. Id.

78. Courts of uity will not interfere and set aside a judgment atlaw,
except when it has 11 obtained byfraud, or through some accident or mistake, without laches on the of the party comp ' ' and after all rem-.
edyatlawhasbeenlost. I Bolandv.Thom¢¢m. 12 .141.

179. Diamissslefamot:|onamountstoadeni_aL—Anorderdismissing
a.mc:;tion32fo(13:ain.(p5e5wtrialisine£’ectdenytaganewtrial. lilrdsrmleudon
cmo'o., . .

1&1. Whenappeal!remancrder,eto..wtl1bedlsmisaed.

1481. Anappeal from an orderdenyinga new trialwillbe dismissedunless
$6 statement is agreed to by the attorneys of the respective parties or settled
gad authenticated by the Court. Oosgrove v. Johnson, 30 Cal. 509.

189.A.nowt:-iala-antedforane¢ederrcraoflaw,wlllbereview.cd.—
Whenanewtrialisgranted theCourtbelow,entirelyu n’ ederrorl
o‘tlaw,the8u Court review the aetionofthe wasln
:_Ithe1-cases. Brisnv..Brady,23Cal.243.

183. Illegal evidence presumed urloua.—Unless the illegal evidence
eouldhave no influence upon the ve ct, the resum tion is that it did have
t with the jury, and a new trial ould, ordered. Sagatillan v.

nomew
Meal .93.

181. Encuoccurringatthetrialmuatbeapeoiallyexoeptedtoat
the tlme.—When there has been no objection raised or exception taken to
{he insumciency of the evidence, this Court would resume that sumcient
evidence of a propseir character was given to warrant e verdict. Bunting v.

Iademan, 1 Cal. .
185. Courts will require an objection to the sumciency of evidence to be

madeatthetimethesame is oferedto be introduced,so that a Bartyma

. " ‘‘5‘;f?‘32§.“3fi¥.?§;“{’s”éZ.‘'£§3§%° new °v*d°n°°~ '~ W

1%. An objection to a form of a verdict should be made on motion for a
newtrlal. Itistoolatctoraiseitinthis Courtfor the first time. Douglass
v. Kraft, 9 Cal. 562. ‘

187. Where a defendant's objection to the admission of testimony on the
trialisgeneral, he cannotbe permittedtomake it cpecialfor the nrsttlme in
this Court. People v. Glenn, 10 Cal. 32. .

188. the ob°ection to the introduction of testimony was in eueral
terms tit was ' event, the objection will not be considered in e Bug
gate Court, if the testimony could, under any possible circumstan008. 11879

11 relevant. Dreua: v. Domec, 18 Cal. 83. '
189. Where an objection is taken to the admission of evidence, without a
’ cation of the unds of the objection,‘ it does not merit consideration.
_ tlcr v. Kimbal, 10  267.

190. Where instructions to the jury are not excepted to at the time the ,
are given, or refused, and a motion for new trial is made for error in givi
or refusing such instructions, they cannot be considered on‘ appeal from the
ark denying the motion. Collier v. Corbett, 15 Cal. 186.

191. Arefusaltogive an instruction cannot be urged aeerrorforthenr-at
h'me. on a petition for a rehe on appeal. Payne v. Treadwell, 16 Cal. 247.

192. A party cannot take his for a verdict on ‘instructions given
and refused, without exceptions taken, and then, after verdict, exce t to the
action of the (hurt upon motion for a new trial. Letter v. Putaey, 7 423;
Ice St. Jolmvv. Kidd, 28 Cal. 263.

193. An exce tion to the admissibility of a deed in evidence must be taken
enthetrialof causqatntsiprius. Thepoint cannotbeconsideredon

Pearson v. Snodgrass, 5 Cal. 478; Poden v. Baseetle, Id. 467.

194. Apartycannot, byconscn ' to admit evidence "subjecttoalll
exceptions," absolve himself from’ e necessity of takigghexcertions to
relevancy or suiliciency thereof, and devolve the responsi 'ty 0 discovering
whatever ob'ections may exist on the Court below, and after nshing for a
verdict, for the dz-st time assign his objections in the Supreme Court. Govt!»
laud v. Tanner, 7 Cal. 88. .

195. Where the motion for a new trial, though made, does not appear to
have been acted on, the appenats Court will not consider the aumcienoy of
the evidence to sustain the verdict. Myers v. Carey, 14 Cal. 542.

196. On appeal by a. plaintiff from an order overruling a motion for new
kial, made by him u n the ground of insumciency of the evidence to justify
the verdict. an exce on taken by defendant on the trial to the competency of
;lw1(':t:1Les6sa*&who tes ' ' for plaintifff, will not be considered. Pierce 7. J aclcson,

197. The party must lay his linger on the point of his objection.Kiler v. Kimbal, 10 Cal. 267; Martin v. Travers, 7 Cal. 253.

‘ 198. Granting or refusing motion for new trial discret:lonary.—l[otion
for new trial is addressed to the sound discretion of the Court, and the Sne Court can interfere onlyin cases ofplain abuse of suchdiscretion.
v. Fees, 16 Cal. 357; Drake v. Palmer, 2 Id. 181; Watson v. JlcC'iay, 4
Id. 288; Hastings v. Steamer Uncle Sam, 10 Id. 341; Burneitv. Whitesides, 15
Id. 36; inn 7. Kenyon, 22 Id. 82; O’Brien v. Brady, 23 Id. 243. 199. ere the evidence is coniiic ' , the granting or refusing a new trial
rests in the discretion of the Court be ow, and this Court will not interfere,
whether the new trial be ted or refused. Weddle v. Stark, 10 Cal. 301.
' 200. Where, on trial 0 an ejectment suit, certain evidence offered by defendant was rejected, on the ground that the averment in the answer that the
original location of the lot in dispute was according to “ the actual plan, then
used and recognised, of the town of San Ih-ancisco or Yerba Buena, meant
the map of the survey, and not the actual survey or plan on the ground, and
the Court refused the defendant permission then to amend his answer in this
respect, but subsequently granted him a new trial for that purpose: Held,
that the Court below had the power to grant the new trial of this cause, and
that this Court will not interfere. Lestrade v. Barth, 17 Cal. 285.

' 201. Thecourt below mayrefuseanewtrlai, eventhoughbothparties consent to it.—Where a case has been once fully tried, parties have
not an arbitrary discretion to renew the litigation. Phelaa v. Ruis, 15 Cal. 90.

202. Motion not acted cn.—Where the motion for new trial, though made,
does not appear to have been acted on, the appellate Court will not consider

attic; sumciency of the evidence to sustain the verdict Myers v. Casey, 14 Cal.

203. New trial will be granted when justice requires.—Where, from
the record, it appears highly probable that the judgment of the Court below is
founded neither upon law or W the Supreme Court should reverse the
judgment or grant a new trial. v. J ourdain, 1 Cal. 102.

204. It is error to refuse a new trial when justice requires that it should be
granted. Ross v. Austill, 2 Cal. 183.

205. Injury is presumed from evidence erroneously admitted; and the adverse party must show clearly that no injury accrued, or the judgment cannot
stand. Grimes v. Exit, 15 Cal. 63. I

206. The Court may impose t:erms.—'l‘he Court may impose teuns upon
grautin a new trial. Baitelle v. Conner, 6 Cal. 140.

. 207. here a party complies with the terms imposed. and avails himself of
the advantage of the order, he cannot afterwards question its correctness. Id.

208. The terms of new trials are peculiarly within the discretion of the Court.
with the exercise of which the appellate Court will not interfere, except on a
geitrbshowlng of abuse or grossly unreasonable terms. Rice v. Gashirie, 13

a . 4.
. 209. The Court ma require a remittitur of a portion of an excessive judgment, or grant a me on for a new trial. Benedict v. Comm, 4 CaL 382.

210. When a new trial was to he had on payment of costs: Held, that the
acceptance of costs did not waive the right to appeal from the order granting
a new trial. Tyson v. Wells. 1 Cal. 378.

211. It is not error in the Court below to refuse a new trial, provided the
l|l8:¢l!88;Ill party will consent to a reduction of his judgment. Chopin v. Beams,
8 . 96. .

212. If the tludings are not sustained by the evidence on a question of damages, the Court may require the plaintid to remit the damages, or submit to a
new trial. Ctnpsntier v. Gardiner, 29 Cal. 160.

213. On motion for a new trial the Court cannot reverse aformer
judgment.—0n motion for new trial, it is irregular for the Court to reverse its

o ilrst judgment, and render a contrary one, without hearing or notice. Hitehsll
V. Haclcett, 14 Cal.‘ 661.

214. Du-ectionsto Court belowtoenter ajudgment doesnotgtvea
new t:rlal.—-Where the action is brought to recover judgment upon several
demands. and the Court below renders judgment for plaintill’ upon all the demands, and the ap ellate Court, in its opinion. holds that plaintiiPs recovery
should have been mited to a portion of the demands sued on, and directs the
Court below, upon a return of the cause, to render judgment in accordance
with the opinion, and reverses the judgment, the judgment of the appellate
Court does not direct a new trial of the issues, but directs the Court below to
enter judgment upon the tlndings for the amount due. Arycnti v. City of San
Finncisca, 30 Cal. 458.

215. Amotlonfora newudaloanbe heardonlyonthe reoord made
and settled before the order is made.—Quivcy v. Gambert, 32 Cal. 304:
Congress v. Johnson, 30 Cal. 509. .

216. The Supreme Court can only look to the statement as settled the
Court below, to determine the character and point of the objection in e on
thetrial to the introduction of proposed evidence. They cannot consult the
o inion of the Judge in passing upon the motion for a new trial. to discover

e real point of objection. Cochran at at. v. 0'Keefe, April T. 1868.

217. Court should rule on motion for new tr1al.—A party moving for a
new trial is entitled to a ruling upon his motion upon the basis upon which
it is presented. If his notice or statement has not been died or served in
time, that is good reason why his motion should be denied. Id.

‘ 218. Rulings in oertatneasesreviewedwtthout amotlonfor anew

tial-—It seems that errors in the rulings of the Court below will be reviewed
on appeal, altho no motion for a new trial is made or overruled. Souls
v.Dawcs,6Cal.4 3; All¢nv.Hi11, 16Cal.1l7. .

.219. Where plaintiff was nonsuited on the ground that the allegations
of the complaint were not sustained by the evidence, and judgment for costs
r¢;n(d:;e:-erglagainst him, no motion for new trial is necessary. Darst v. Rush,
1 . .

220. Where the uestions in a case arise upon motion for nonsuit, and

-upon the action of e Court in giving and refusing instructions, a motion for

new trial is unnecessary. Sullivan v. Gary, 17 Cal. 80.

221. Stipulations as to statement on appeal.-A stipulation to the efect
that a statement may “ be used on the motion for new trial in this cause, and
also on the appeal to the Supreme Court," includes an appeal from the jttri$

ment. as we as an appeal um the decision for the motion for a new
Eastiagev. Hallsclc, 13 Cal. ‘ .

222. Statement on motion for a new trial may be used on appeal
from the judgment'.—Any statement agreed to by the parties, or duly settled
and certitied by the Court, becomes a part of the record, the same as a bill
of exceptions, demurrer to the evidence, or any other mode by which questions 0 law or matters of evidence were made part of the record by the old
gem of practice. And where an appeal was taken from a ‘udgment, and

from an -order overrnlin a motion for a new trial, and e appeal from
the order was dismissed, for e reason that the notice was not served in
time, and the transcript contained a statement on motion for a new trial, but
no statements on appeal or bill of exceptions: Held, that on the appeal from
the 'udgment, the statement on motion for a new trial pro rly ormed part
of record. and might thereforee be used in the Court, an that any alleged
errors appearing therefrom, anecting the judgment, might be considered and
passedon. Tbwdy v. Ellis, 22 Cal. 650.

223. Where a statement is made and settled on motion for a new trial. and
an appeal is taken, both from the judgment and from the order denying a
new trial, the statement can be used in reviewing the order appealed from,

¢:.nnot   the appeal from the judgment. Caegrave

&. If a statement is made on a motion for a new trial, and’ an appeal is
taken from the ju ent, under a stipulation that the statement on motion
for a new trial may used as the statement on appeal, the statement may be

usoasonnsuprcsanuuyquauontnu can be renovated «goal I-on
thejudg|nent,butnofurther. Oaopcaticrv. Williamson,25Cal. .

225. Motion [or new trial may be abandon‘ed.—Plalntln‘ recovered judgment, and defendants ve notice of their intention to move for a new trial, nnd
filed ’a statement of e nnds. Plaintif filed a counter statement, but sherwards, at a meeting of parties before the Jud at Chambers to settle the
statement, informed the Judge and defendants tha the statement need not he
settled, as he would consent to a new trial ; whereupon, defendant gave notice
of a motion to withdraw their motion or proceedings for new trial. Refused,
and a new trial granted. Held, that the Court erred; that the defendants had a
rkhttomeveornot tomovefora'newtrialuponthenotlce&i.va,snd ifthey
chose to abandon their proceedings, whether belbre or after rnoh'on for new
trial was made, they had the right so to do. Btogeli 7. Cole, 19 Cal. 602.

226. Act governing statement for new trial.-The Act of 1863. amending the one hundred and ninety-ilfih section of the Practice Act, is the law governing ‘ the reparations of statements on motion for new trial made aner its
passage. v. San Francisco, 27:Ca1. 416.

227.Astoamotlon!cranswtria1thereisnoterm.—Bpanags! V.
Dellinger, Jan. ’1‘., 1868.

228.Pindin¢andvu'diotoene1uslvesstothefsch,ifaomotioni:re
new trial. Allen v. Fcnnon, 27 Cal. 68.

229. Hleotof stipulatlonthatmotloniornewtzisl be denied—Where
the artiesinthe Courtbelow slated thstamotionforanewtrislshould be
dengd, they cannot question in Court the correctness of an order danyisg
such motion. Brotherion V. Hart, 11 Cal. 406.

230. Where an attorney appears, without authority. and conducts the
defense, the remedy of defendants is by motion for a new trial; not by motion
‘for relief from the Jud ent under sec. 68 of the Practice Act. McKinley at al.
1'. Tamed (IL, Oct. T. 867.

231. Allldsvicsin a fcrelgnlsnguagomaybeeaoluded.-Itisnot error
for the Court to exclude affidavits filed on a motion for a new trial, which were
written in a foreign language. Spencer V. Deane, 23 Cal. 419.

232. Law ofthe oase.—Where the Supreme Com-t,in 1-eve:-sings jug-ment and remanding the cause foranewtrial, consider and uponapoint

of law, with a View to the newtrinl for the purposes of whic it is important.
the ruling upon such point, though not essential to the decision, becomes the
lawof thecassinall ts futurestages. 1ab¢sJ{oomtaiaTuaael Cb.v. Stratahaa, 21 Cal. 548. The followingecases relate to the same subject: Hubbard
Y. 814112’ 18 Cal. 508; Saute v. war, 20 Cal. 522; Laces v. Clark, 20 Cal. 39?:
Heirs of ictov.0 ,21Cal.455; TablsJlounlain1lmne1(b.w.Sb'aaa»
llan,_21 Cal. 548; M‘ v. Davis, 23 Cal. 381; Moore 7. Murdock, 26 Cal. 524;
Lucas v. San Francisco, 28 Cal.591; Estate 0 Pacheco, 29 Cal. 224; Jluiford
zifstudillo, 32 Cal. 131; Kile v. Tubhs, 32 C 332; Argcntiv. Sawyer, 32 Cal.

233. Count'yoourtmaygrnntnewt:1a1.—The appellatepower efthe
Supreme Court over the County Court could not be properly or e 
cxercised,unless the wertograntanewtrial existedintheCounty
The Con Court ' y has pews:-ntgfrant a new trial.  7. Van
How-15,9 .211. Thiscaaecomm onwithout appuovaliinllorseyv.
Barry, 24 Cal. 455.

$194. Whmapplicationfornaotnhlw bemadeuponcwidm
‘oil or ‘statement.

When the application is made for a cause mentioned inthe
£rst, second, "third, and fourth subdivisions ‘of the last section,

it shall be made upon affidavit-; forany other cause, it shall
be made upon a statement prepared as provided‘ in the next
section.

3195. ‘Notice of mozionfomew trial; whznand how statemeats-or ‘a,$da'vz‘ls lobe made and filed.

The party intending to move for a new trial shall give ‘notice
or the same as follows: When the action has been tried by a
jury, within five days after the rendition of the verdict; and
when tried by a commissioner, referee, or by the Court, within ten days after receiving written notice of the filing of the
indings of ‘the commissioner, referee, or Court, when written

Endings are filed by the Court, or of the rendering of the
decision of the Court when no findings are filed; provided,

the decision be rendered in open Court, and if rendered at
Vacation, than within ten days after receiving written notice
of the filing thereof ; and when amendments are filed to remedy defects in the findings, within ten days after receiving
‘written notice of the tiling of such amendments. The notice
shall designate generally the grounds upon which the motion
will be made. Within dve days after giving such notice, or
within such further time, not exceeding twenty days, as the
Court or Judge ‘thereof or Court Commissioner may by order
grant, the said ‘party shall prepare and file with the clerk the
affidavit or statement required by the last section. If no
affidavit or ‘statement he filed withinfive days after the notice, or within such further time as the parties -may agree
‘upon, or the Court or Judge thereo for Court Commissioner
may by order grant, the right to move for a new trial sh all
be deemed waived. When the notice designates as the
ground upon which the motion will be made the insufficiency
of the evidence to justify the verdict or other decision, the
statement shall specify the particulars in which such evidence
is alleged to be insuilicient. When the notice designates, as
the-ground of the motion errors in law occurring at the trial
and excepted to by the moving party, the statement shall
lpooiiy the particular errors upon which the party will rely.
If nosuch specifications be made, the statement shall be disNgarded. The statement shall contain so much of the evideuce or reference thereto as may be necessary to explain

the particular points thus specified, and no more. Such statement, when not agreed to by the adverse party, shall be
settled by the Judge, upon notice. When agreed to,.it shall
be accompanied by the certificate of the parties or their
attorneys that the same has been agreed upon and is correct.
When settled by the Judge, the same shall be accompanied
with his certificate that the same has been allowed by him
and is correct. On the argument reference may also be made

to the pleadings, depositions, and documentary evidence on
£le and the minutes of the Court. If the application be
made upon aiiidavits filed, the adverse party may use counter
aihdavits on the hearing. Any counter. affidavits shall be
filed with the Clerk one day at least previous to the hearing.
The affidavits and counter aiiidavits, or the statement thus
used in connection with such pleadings, depositions, and
minutes of the Court as are read or referred to on the hearing, shall constitute, Without further statement, the papers
to be used on appeal from the order granting or refusing the
new trial. To identify the affidavits, it shall be suiiicient for

the Judge or clerk to endorse them at the time as having
been read ‘or referred to on the hearing. To identify any
depositions or minutes of the Court read or referred to on
the hearing, it shall be sufficient that the Judge designate
them in his certihcate as having been thus read or referred to.

‘Amended 1861,590; 1ss3,s43; 1864, 246; 1866, 845. See ants, § 193
For San Francisco County, see Rules of Court, Nos. XXVIII-XXIX. Ban-'
oroft’s Forms, 589 ; Abb. F. 1672’.

1. Omce of a statemont.—-The office of a statement on motion for new trial
is to bring into the record those matters only, which arise in the regress of the
trial, and constitute the basis of the motion under the lltth, six , and seventh
subdivisions of section one hundred and ninety-three of the Practice Act, and
which the appellant desires to have reviewed on appeal from the order granting
or refusing a new trial. Harper v. Minor, 27 Cal. 109.

2. There is no distinction as to the manner in which a statement is to be proared between a case at law and a case in equi . The grounds of appeal must

u both cases be stated ; and in both cases muc , if not the greater portion of
the evidence, will be immaterial for the determination of these grounds in the
Supreme Court. Barret v. ilnolabury, 15 Cal. 354.

3. Horwtoavoddmaldng a motion for a newtrlal.—Inavastmaiority
of cases there would be no occasion for a motion for a new trial, if the lindingl
were what they ought to be; for in nine cases out of ten, where the trial is by
the Court. the sole controversy here is as to whether the conclusions of law are
correct. In all such cases there should be, and there certainly need be, no
occasion for a motion for a new trial, or for b ' g the evidence to this Court

in any form. Every such case 0 ht to come re upon the judgment roll.

Tewlasbmy v. Hagraj’, Oct. T. 186 .

4. 'nn'eedlatlnotstepe to be taken.--There arethree distinctstepsreeog-.
nixed by the Practice Act in a proceeding to obtain a new trial, for the 
oteechofwhich,excetthelast,aparticu1ar bdoftimeisallow :
nrstly, a notice of inten on to move for a new ' ; secondly, nlingandsen-.
ing statement or affidavits; thirdly, the motion for a new trial. An order ex.tending the time for taking either of these steps, should express with precision the object to be attained. Jenkins v. Frinlc etal., 27 Cal. 337.

5. Notice, what lL—When the statute speaks of notice of motion, it

means written notice, or notice in 0 en Court, of which a minute is made by
theconrt. Borland v. Thornton, 1 Cal. 448.

6.'1'hh-ty days exteusionoftlmetoservs thenotlce.-—'1‘he time‘
allowed for the service of notices to move for a new trial, may be extended by

theconrt thirty days. Harper v. Minor, 27 Cal. 113.

7. Notice of motion must be eerved.—Notice of intention to move for a
new trial must be given to the opposite part or his attorney, within the time
required by the one hundred an ninety-ting section of the Practice Act, or

therighttomove foranewtrialiswaived. [Bear Riva-cl: A. W. d: H. 00.
v.Bolesdal., 24 Cal. 354.

8. Where no notice ofdan igltintitcin to move me new t(1;ifal is given to the
opposite , or waive ' , e ma.k1ng° mmg° 8 statement does
not give mun jl1l'l8di0li’l’t)l1 over the subject matter of a new ' and an

ordergrantinganewtrialwillbereversed. Bearllivea-«£4. W.& . 00. v.
Bolesdal.,24Cal. 354.

9. Service of notice. how waived.--On motion for a new trial, the £1ing of aeonnter statement is a waiver of objections to want of notice of the
intenuon to move for a new trial. Williams v. Gregory, 9 Cal. 76.

10. If no notice is given of an intention to move for a new trial, astatement
mdeandtlledandagreedtobythepartles, orsettled by the In e, cannot
be made the foundation of a motion, nor annexed to the {record 0 the ju

usilntororderfromwhichthepartymayappeal. Flateau v. L«becIc,24 C .

11. Acknowledgement of service of notice.-—An acknowledgement of
service indorsed on a notice of ap as follows: Due service of a co y of
the within notice ishereby scce to have been made this twentieth y of
February, 1883, is no waiver of an ob'ection thatservioe upon the day mentionedistoolate. 1bcodyv.ElIie,22 .660.

12. Apartycannotabandonthet1rstnotloeofmotlon.and£leareoord. LeRoy v. Rassctte, 32Cal. 171.

13. Presurnption that notice of motion was duly given. Godc-have v.
Xtdford, 26 Cal. 316. '

14. Notice. afoot of. as a stay.—-A motion for a new trial, dled within the
time allowed by law, stays the o eration of the judgment and preserves all
lights, until it can be heard an determined, and 18 not afected by the adJ1%1.rument of the Court for the term. Lunacy v. Wells, Fargo at 00., 4 Cal.

15. Pendency of a met! 11 f r a newtrial, does not operate ssasuepension
0! an injunction. Ortmanov. Bieon,,9 Cal. 23.

16. If, after the Court has died its dnding of facts, andmade an order sendingthecae‘ett;thereferee':leimk¢:andst;1te¢a a.nmconnt,amotionl‘:e1;1adet1’l<:
s new trio a motion ' no sta proceedings’ , ding’ ore
referee 0t:ow¢ha'v.Rowlandson,27(;’al. 385. Don

17.1'lme within which notice of motion must be given, ave days.-—
Ifthenotieeof motionforanewtrialisnotserved andllledwithindve da
sttertherenditionoftheverd.ict,wheretheoaseistriedbyajux-y,the t
tomove for a new trial is waived, and although a statement maybe altervards made, med, and settled, and the motion for new trial passed on by the
Court below, yet the Supreme Court will, if the objection be taken, strike the

statement from the transcript. Ellsassar v. Hunter, 626 Cal. 279. A '
verdict sigo within the rule. Garwood v. Simpson, 8 al. 108; Duf v. ialaer.
16 Id. .

18. On the rendition of a s ' verdict, the trial is terminated. and notice
of motion for new trial must given within the statutory time thereafter, or
térel  based upon such notice will be disregarded. Allen v. H ill, 16

a . 3.

19. Ton dayI.—Notice of motion for a new trial may be served within ten
days after receiving written notice of the rendering of the decision by the
Court, if rendered in open Court. Car-pentier v. Thurston, 30 Cal. 123. .

20. The time to serve notice of intention to move for a new trial, does not
commence to run till written notice of the rendering of the decision is filed.
Roussin v. Stewart, Oct. '1‘. 1867.

21. Where the trial was before the Court, without a jury, and it does not
appear that the notice of ten days required by the statute was given, the
statement cannot be ob‘ected to on the ground that it was not filed within the
time prescribed by the ctice Act. Burnett v. Stearns, Oct. T. 1867.

22. If the case is tried b the Court, and a decision orally announced in
favor oi’ laintiif from the nch, and entered by the clerk in his minutes,
and the udge several days afterwards, in vacation, si the formal written
findings and a draft of ju ent, and delivers them to t e plaintifff to be died,
a notice served by plainti on defendant, on the day of the signing and delivery of said flndin and judgment, that the findings have this day been signed
by the Judge, an his decision herein rendered in favor of plaintrd‘, is a notice
of the nndrngs and decision thus signed in vacation, and not of the decision
first made in open Court. The decision of which notice was thus given cannot be said to have been rendered till it was nled by the clerk and became a
record of the Court; and a notice of motion for new trial 'ven within two
da after such iiling is in time. Carpenlier v. Thurston, 30 . 123.

. Notice of motion for new trial, given one day before judgment rendered,
and six da s after nling the report of e referee, is inefectual for any purpose.
Ifthe tri terminatedwith the nling of the report, the noticewasnotintime;
if it continued, in contem lation of law, until the entry of judgment, the
notice was premature, and e proceedings on the motion are void. Mulroney
v. Cape:-ton, 15 Cal. 513.

24. Time wherethecaseissenttoareferee.—Ifthe caseistriedbythe
Court, and hndings of faetaremadeand med, andthecaseisthensenttoa
referee to take and state an account, the necessary steps to a£pl for a new
trial should not be taken until the final report of the referee is  Crowtlier
v. Rowland.-ron, 27 Cal. 385.

25. Decisions, when deemed rendered.—Jndgrnent is rendered when it
is announced and entered in the minutes. Oasement v. Ringgold, 28 Cal. 337;
Gray v. Palmer, 28 Id. 416; Peck v. Oourtis, 31 Id. 207; Genella v. 32

Id. 159; Gzrpaztierv. Thurston, sold. 123. See furtherpost§336, note ,e¢’.eg

26. Manner of preparing, amending. and settling the ststnmnsnt.-The
statute prescribing the practice in motions for new trials is lain and simple.
The moving party repares his statement and submits it to e opposite 
If satisfactory to ‘m, they add a certificate, which they sign. If not, .
proposes amendments and submits them to the moving party, and if they are
accepted by him, the statement is then engrossed accordingl , and to the
engrossed copy a certificate is added, and signed by them, to edect that
the statement is correct and agreed to by them. If they cannot agree, the
statement and roposed amendments are submitted to the Judge, who allows
or denies acco ' to circumstances. After the Judge has thus determined
what shall constitute the statement, it is engrossed accordingly, and s cartincate added to the edect that it is correct, an if not signed by counsel must be
signed by the _Judge. Nothing can be regarded b&the Supreme Court as a
statement which is not authenticated in one of see modes. Ooegrove v.

Johnson. 30 Cal. 511.

fl. 1-‘or San Francisco county, see District Court Rules Nos. XXVIII.

§28. Rulesto be observed h1maldngthestatement.—8eelurther,post,
W.

29. Documentary and other evidence, how inserted.—-Omit all matter that does not seem to illustrate the points made on appeal. Estate ofB¢Kd,
35 Cal. 513. Leave out veridcations, acknowledgements of deeds. and ti es
of Court, where no point is made on them. Id. Where the recordis certilled

by theattorneys.it will answer all purposes to say, “Dul verilied," “Duly

aeknow " “ '1itle of the cause," etc., substituting e date of the document or ' . Id. Seealso, tothesameeifect, 27Cal. 654.

30. Inserting deeds in a staternent.—It is seldom necessary to insert an
entire deed in a statement. When the deed is regular, and no question is
made on it. it is suiilcient to say that a deed was introduced from A to B,
showing that A's title had vested in B. Kimble v. Sample, 31 Cal. 657.

31. Transcripts of records.—Instead of copying into a statement, for a
new kial or on an appeal, deeds and transcripts of records, when no point is
made on the construction of the language, a brief statement of the instrument answers eve u so, and 18 all that the Practice Act requires.
Knowles v. Inches, 1l3'C.Pal.rg(1)2.

32. Where documentary evidence is referred to in the statement on
modern for a new trial, and directed to be inserted, the appellant cannot, without the assent of the other party, insert copies of the same in the transcript on
appeal, unless the statement has been engrossed as settled, and afterwards
authenticated, or unless the originals are on the files of the Court or constitute a t of its record, so thatthey can be authenticated as a egart of such
renordgtyrthe oertincate of the clerk. Kimble v. Semple, 31 Cal. 7.

33. Amdavits.—Amdavits in sup rt of a motion in the Court below will
not be considered by the Supreme ourt unless the are incorporated in the
statement or bill of exceptions. The People v. Hons , 10 Cal. 83.

34. Where the affidavits used in support of a motion for a new trial are not
set forth in the record on appeal, the moving is deprived of all ground
of error based on the amdavrte ; but e omission does not adect his right to

raise’ the question as to errors apparent upon the face of the record. Braager
lt Driard v. Chevalier, 9 Cal. 353.

35. Allidavits or documents copied into the transcri t on a peal, but not
made a part of the record either by a certidcate of the c erk or udge, or by a

statement, or bill of exceptions, cannot be considered. Gordon v. Clark, 22
Cal. 533.

36. Documents and depositions which are not embodied in a statement.—Where documents and de ositions are read or referred to on the argument of a motion for a new his in the Court below, and are not embodied in
the statement, it will be sumclent for the Judge to add, upon renderin his
decision, a certincate of the matters thus read or referred to. This cert’ cats
will be sunlcient identitlcation of the documents and depositions used; and a
my of them, together with the statement and Eudgment roll, will constitute the

record necessary in the Supreme Court. Ics v. Edmondson, 18 Cal. 203.
. If a deed is mentioned in a statement on motion for a new trial as having

been in evidence, but is not presented in the statement, the appellant may make
it a part of the record on appeal by printing it in the transcript, with a certificate
of the Judge that it is the eed referred to in the evidence, and that it was before him on motion for a new trial. Hess v. Winder, 30 Cal. 349.

88. The flu ' of the Court need not be embodied in the statement or bill
of exceptions. v. Harris, 8 Cal. 618.

39. Manner of identtdcatlcn of amdavlts, counter affidavits, depositions
and minutes of the Court. See § 195.

40. Introducing evidence in a statement.

41. The statement should contain a clear specification of the particular
grounds relied on by the appellant, and then so much of the evidence, rulings
of the Court, instructions, etc., as may be necessary to explain the points relied
on. Huttoav. 1lesd‘stah., 2601. 483.

42. Evidence not hearing on the points specined in the statement should
be excluded. Ha-per v. Minor; 27 Cal. 101.

48. If the ap ellaut insists that the verdict is not supported by the evidurcu,
the statement uld state in what particulars it is insumcient. and contain a§
the evidence on the point or points relied on, and no more. Harper v. Minot‘,
27 Cal. 107. A statement on motion for new trial, or a bill of exception,
should contain only so much of the evidence, or a reference thereto, as may
be necessary to exalain the grounds specincally set forth as causes fcrnew
trial. Mclliim v. helan, 27 Cal. 319.

44. Judgeaor oourtxinaettiing statements, should see that theabova
rule is complied with. Id.

45. Instruments are sometimes admissible for one purpose and 
for mother; and when objected to, the grounds of the ob'ection should be
stated; and in ' the record for ap£eal, so much of e evidence should
be ' as may necessary to in cats the pertinency and materiality
d %%? taken, otherwise they cannot be regarded. Provost v. Piper
d , . .

46. Bpecinoation 0! grounds of error.—A specidcation of the particular
grounds of error is the essential element of a statement; the evidence is the
more incident. Button 1'. Reed, 25 Cal. 483.

47. Form of assigning e:rorI.—May be stated as follows: that the
respondents are not ‘as in interest and entitled to bring the suit, having
previously divested ourselves of their right of progzrty in question; that the
suit is barred by a former adjudication between same parties upon the
same subject matter; that the property in question was the separate P 
of the wife; that the cause of action is barred by the Statute of Limits ns.
Barrdt 1:. liluebbu-y, 15 Cal. 359.

48. A speciiieation that the evidence did not ggestify or warrant the judgllentis insumcient. People v. Parrotf, Jan. '1‘. 1 4 .

49. Aspeciiieatiou of errors, made in mom of section one hundred
and nin -three, is insumcient. Hutton v. , Cal. 490.

' 60. II is only one question oferrarthat could be raised on the record.
this does not excuse the necessity of specifying it. Zenith Gold and SituaH ’ Co.v.Irvt1ue,820al.302.

51. e appellate Court will not entertain an objection, however well
founded, unless it is ined as an error in the statement. Orowther v. Bosolandson, 27 Cal. 385; core v. Murdock, 26 Cal. 524.

52. If the statement on motion for a new trial does not specify the pardonlars in which the evidence is alleged to be insumcient, the appellate Court will
assume the facts admitted in the pleadings as well as those found. Lonsv.
Sierra Nevada Lake Water and Mining 00., 32 Cal. 639.

53. There may be some cases of equitable relief where the general ground
of appeal will be that the decree is not warranted by the evidence; still, in
the majority of cases this general ground will be subject to more particular
specitication; or that the evidence does not establish a contract, or shows
tender, or compliance with particular conditions. precedent, or the like, which

Eilll csggstitute the matters aged upon theCourt. Barrett v. Ilnolasbury, I5

64. lpoclnostlcna, whsrenndtnga are not sustained by the evidence.

55. If a new trial is applied for on the ound that the findings of facts are
against the evidence, the moving party sh specify in his statement each particular tlndlng of fact which, in his opinion, is against the evidence, instead of
&ing in geua-al terms that as alleged finding, which is the result of several
fach found separately, is against the evidence, otherwise it will not be considered. LsBoyv.Rogera, 30Cal. 229; Iiltoltv.-Beach, 31d. 208.

66.Bpeciiioationsomltted.appealwm bedismissedororderat‘IrIned.—When the appeal is from an order denying a new trial, and the statement does not contain the specidc grounds of error relied on, the order will he

ailrmed, or. on motion, the appeal will be dismissed. Hutton v. Read at at, 25
Cal.483; W'attsv.P1-eston, Id. 61.

58. Time within which statement must be filed.-—The statement mustbe
lied within five days after the notice of the motion is served on the opposite
; or, if the tune for giving notice of motion for a new trial is extended
ctlhe Court. the party to whom the extension is given has live days from the
he notice is given w thin which to die his statement as an absolute right. and

as power to extend the time twenty days further. Harper v. lines,

69. if the order denying a motion for a new trial states that the motion was
submitted upon the statement and ailldavits, by consent of the respective Attorneys the respondent is precluded in the appe late Court from saying, that the
statement was not filed n time, or that the notice of intention to move ibr I
new trial was not died or served. Millard v. Hathaway et al., 27 Cal. 119.

60. Where the statement on motion for a new trial is not died within the time

rescribed by law, this Court will only look to the judgment roll. 140' V.
gunk. 11 Cal. 132. my

61. Order extending time to die a statement—An order of Court granting a party twenty days within which to file a statement to be used on a mo;
tion for a new trial, made before a notice of intention to move for a new trial
has been given, must be construed as extending the time to die the statement
twenty days from the date of the order, and not twenty days from the time
thenotieeis ‘van. Easterbyv. Laroo. 84Cal. 179; and.

69. An 0 er of Court allowing a party twenb days withinwhich to N0 0
statement on motion for new trial, must be construed as ‘nag twenty days
from the date of the order, and not twegiaty days beyond a time allowed by
Istlte, Jenkinsv. FrinI¢etal..27 091- .

63.'1'heConrthasnopovverto extendthethne more than twen

gilllfiyond the expiration of the Eve dun’ notice. Harper v. liner, 2

Construction of the order.--See Rule No. XXIX, for San Francisco.

64. Voidordmaaftertlme haseapired.—An order madebythe Court.
the time axed by the one hundred and ninet -dfth section of the PracAct, for dling a statement on motion for a new  has expired, extending
time his a statement, is void. Bear Rive:-d: A. W. ¢ M, 00. v, Boles
ll Ill, 24 Cal. 354. .
65. If the statement on appeal from a judgment is not served on the ratpondentfs attorney until more than twenty days after the rendition of the
Judgment, and no extension of time is obtained, astatement is waived, andthe

sp llate Court cannot review any alleged errors, except such as appear in the
hgment roll. Kavanagh v. Mans, 28 Cal. 261.

so. wdverolfaihrretonlestatementandservenouoeintimawhen
and when not'.—If the order denying a motion for a new trial states that the
lotion was submitted upon the statement and smdavit by consent of the raIpaetive attorneys, the respondent is precluded in the appellate Court from
Saying that the statement was not filed in time, or that the notice of intention
t&lm¢ivve’t’o1-anewtrialvvtv.snotfiled orserved. Hillard v. Hatlcatoayatat, 27

. 3 .

67. The following is a co y of the order of the Court in denying the application for a new trial : “ ow, on this day, in open Court, comes on to be
heard detendants’ motion for a new trial, and thereupon, alter having heard
the arguments of counsel, the Court overrules the same, to which ruling of the
Court defendants, by counsel, except.” Held, that the order did not show an

pearance of the counsel of the plaintii at the argument of the motion, and,

ore, did not show a waiver of the objection to the Iling of the statement.
Mull v. Williamson at al., 24 Cal. 169.

25;»

68. A stipulation to refer the whole matter is a waiver of any objection that
the motion for a new trial and to set aside the award was not made in statute
time. Heslep v. City of San Francisco, 4 Cal. 2. See ante. No. 10.

69. The party who claims the beneht of a waiver of the failure to file a statement in due time, must prove it beyond doubt. and not leave it to be ascertadinecllogy coniecture or doubttul inference. Munch v. Williamson et a1., 24

70. If the order denying a motion for a new trial states that the motion was
submitted upon the statement and allldavit by consent of the respective
attorneys, the respondent is precluded in the appellate Court trom saying that
his statement was not died in time, or that the notice of intention to move for
a new trial was not filed or served. Hillard v. Hathaway et al., 27 Cal. 137.

71. [Service of Statement for San Francisco county, see District Court
Rules, No. XXVIIL]

72. Time within which to me amendments.—The time within which
pro amendments to a statement on motion for a new trial are to be made
an filed, is left for the regulation of the Court. Vilhac v. Biven, 28 Cal. 409.
“E3. Five days is a reasonable time. Warden v. Mendocino County, 32 Cal.

74. Amendment: to statement.—A defendant in a motion for a new trial
may nle amendments to the statement, without waiving his right to object
that the notice or statement was not filed or served in time, by a preface that
he does so without prejudice to his right to object at the hearing to the notice
or statement on these grounds. Quincy v. Gambcrt, 32 Cal. 304.

75. Amendments, service of.—The statute makes no provisions for the
service of amendments to a statement or a copy thereof upon the adverse
party, and if notice is given of the time and place of the settlement of a
statement before the Judge engrossed statement as settled, will not be stricken
because the amendments were not served on the opposite _party. Villzao v.
mm, 28 Cal. 409. Otherwise, by Rule XXVIII, in the City and County of

Francisco.

76. Notice of settlement.—If the notice of the time and place of the
settlement of a statement before a J udge on motion for a new trial is given to
the appellant, and he does not attend, e cannot afterwards com lain of the
statement as settled. Vilhac v. Biven, 28 Cal. 409. See Rule for
San Francisco county. '

77. Statement, settlement and authentication o£—A statement which
was died in the Court below on motion for a new trial, and is neither agreed to
by counsel, nor settled by the Judge trying the case. has not sufficient authentication to constitute any. portion of the record which this Court can notice.
Doyle v. Seawall, 12 Cal. 425; Paige v. 0’Neal, 12 Id. 492.

78. The certitlcate of aJudge is a sufficient authentication of a statement; and
where a party does not think proper to file amendments, or the Judge to correct
the statement, the certincate of that fact by the Judge is all that is necessaryBedman v. Gulnac, 5 Cal. 148.

79. If the statement filed in support of a motion for a new trial is not settled
by the Judge, it cannot he thereforee inferred that it was agreed to. Such statement must either be agreed to, or it must be settled by the Judge, and one of
these conditions must be shown anlrmativelg; In the absence of both, such
statement will be refected. Sinnv. Twist, 3 l. 89.

80. It is no object on that the statement does not adlrmatively show that the
settlement was upon proper notice, or in the presence of both parties. In t|I0
absence of evidence to the contrary, the presumption of law is in favor of IIIO
regularity of all omcial acts. Battersby v. Abbott, 9 Cal. 568.

81. A refusal to allow an amendment is presumed to be right. unlem thechar
‘a3s;lter3::)‘t'. the proposed amendment is shown in the record. Jessup v. Kie9o4

82. A'statement on motion for a new trial will not be regarded unless it il
agreed tobytheattorneysofthe respective parties orsettledandauthenticatod
bythe Court. Oosgroeev. Johnson, 30Cal. 609; Villtaev. Bioea, 28Id.409-83. Amotionb themovingpartyto strike out the other party's roposed
amendments to hf; statement on a motion for a new trial, and deniafl thereof

by the  is not a settlement and authentication of the statement by the

84. Where the statement is died and served by the moving party, on motion
for a new trial, and amendments thereto are made by the opposing , and
the only settlement of or certincate to the same was an mdorsement the
Judge at the bottom of the settlement, that the amendments to the statements
were allowed: Held, that the statement would not be considered on appeal.
Baldwin v. Fame, 23 Cal. 461.

Authentication of statement.—See further, post, 9341, and notes.

85. Practice where a party is dissatisned with the aettlement.—If
the appellant was not satisned with the action of the Court below in settling
the statement on motion for a new trial, and desired to correct the same in
this Court, as rovided in section one hundred and eighty-nine of the Practice
Act, he shoul have presented a tition for that purpose before the final submission of -the case. He cannot allowed to incorporate in his transcript ea:
parts affidavits impeaehing the statement, and after the iinal submission of
the case, bri the question before us for the drst time in his brief. Warasouth v. 0.23;, April T. 1868. [Remedy in the Supreme Court.) A moEon to correct a statement or exce tions, where the Court below refuses
to nuke the same conform to the acts, is an original proceeding in this
Court, and must be instituted by a petition in writing, setti forth at length
the exceptions which were taken at the trial and not allow by the Jud e,
and so much of the evidence as ma be necessarg to illustrate them. e

rd, an

petition should be presented with e reco the application made beare the case is submitted. Id.

86. Settlement by sI:lpulatlon.—If the attorneys for appellant and respondent stipulate in writing that the statement contained in the record is a
correct statement on motion for a new trial, and that the judgment roll, orders
and instructions, given and refused by the Court, the statement. and stipulation constitute a true and correct statement on ap cal to the Supreme court.
and me be used as such without further certigcate or identiiication; all
techni objections to the transcripts are waived, and it will be presumed
that a motion for a new trial was regularl; given, although none appear in
the record. Godchaua: v. Mulford, 26 Cal. 1 .

87. If the parties agree to a statement of facts, and stipulate that it may be
used by either party in any and all proceedings in the action, the statement of
facts become a part of the iudgment roll. Burnett v. Pacheco, 27 Cal. 409.

88. [The judge, within twelve months after the expiration of hisoffice, may

' and settle statements on motions for new trials, and statements and bills
exceptions on appeal. Laws of 1859, page 220. “ Section 3. This act
shall not be deem to take from the successors of any District Judge the
power to sign any record, or to ' or settle any statement or bill of exceptions, asheretofore authorized by w." Id.]

89. Ban IE‘ranoisco.—Statements on motion for a new trial shall be settled

the Judge or referee, before whom the cause was respectively tried. Rule
0. EH of the District Courts.

90. Bngroaarnent ct statement, authentication to be endorsed thereaI.—Where there are amendments to a pro osed statement on appeal, the
draft proposed and the amendments allowed s ould be incorporated into one
document. as in their separate form they cannot be re rded as any part of the
record. People v. Edwards, 9 Cal. 286 ; Slciuman v. iley, 10 Id. 300.

91. Where amendments are made to a statement on appeal, a fair copy of the
statement so amended should be made. Otherwise, the Supreme Court will
not look into it. Marlow v. Marsh, 9 Cal. 259.

92. The proper practice is to engross the statement as settled. including so
much of the deeds and other documentary evidence pertaining to the case as is
directed to be inserted, and have the authentication of the Judge or attorneys
indorsed on the engroned statement. Kimball v. Sample, 31 Cal. 657.

93. A statement ought always to he engrossed where an amendments are
allowed, or where documentary evidence is directed to be nserted, especial)
when such documents constitute no art of the files or records of the Court. I .

hement must be engrossed within ten days. See Rule XXVIII for 82
ncisco county.]

94. Decisions as to a waiver of authentication.-—Where a party appears
and argues a motion for a new trial, he cannot afterwards ob ect that the
statement was notagreed to by him, andthatitwasnot settled the Judge.
 V’ Va" pemHm'ri9oC“ae’otz'11 r ceph signed by the Judges. that

. en it ap m i 0 ex ‘one,
the motion for new trial was heard on statement, counter statement and 3&davits, it caCn‘1l1o't_:l be objected that the statement was not settled. Willlasne 1'.

, 9 . 6.
statement on motion for new trial, signed by the Judge, and a

ing, from the minutes of the Court, to have been mod on the hearing if the
motion, is sumciently authenticated. The statute points out no mode of anthentication, and any satisfactory evidence in the record, in some 
and proper form, that the statement has been examined and approv by the
Inge, is sumcient. Kidd v. Laird, 15 Cal. 161. See pod, No. 99.

. The Courts should look at the substance of the contents of the statement, and disregard its imperfections in form. Ringgold v. Haven, 1 Cal. 113.

98. By agreeing to submit a motion for a new trial without the statement
havingmbeen settled or authenticated, the party resisting a new trial does not
waive ‘a right to ob'ect to the want of a properly authenticated statement.
Cosgrove v. ohnson, Cal. 509.

99. A statement on motion for a new trial, which is not certified as correct
by the parties or by the Jud will not be regarded in the appellate Court.

Vilhac v. Biven, 28 Cal. 409; ggsgrove v. Johnson, 30 Id. 509.

100. Presumption that statement contains all the evidenoe.—It is
presumed that the statement on motion for new trial contains all the evidence
pertinent to the motion. Smith v. Athearn, Jan. T. 1868.

101. If the statement on motion for a new trial specifies certain particulars.
in relation to which it is claimed a finding of fact is unsup rted, the presumption will be that all the evidence upon the point ed is contained
in the statement, although the record does not show amrmatively that such
was the case. (Owen v. Morton, 24 Cal. 375, as to this point, overruled.)
Hidden v. Jordan, 28 Cal. 301.

102. Where the statement on appeal does not purport to contain all the
evidence, the 8? llate Court will not consider an obyection that the verdict
is not sustain the evidence. Moore v. Ties, 22 Cal. 513.

103. A statement cannot be w'aived.——Where the attorneys of both
parties appear in open Court, and b consent argue a motion for a new trial,
this consent, even if it is a waiver o a notice of intention to move for a new

trial, is not a waiver of a statement in some proper form of the grounds of
the motion. Id. Walls v. Preston, 26 Cal. 61.

104. Waiver of right to move for a new trial.—A failing to give
notice in time of his intention to move for a new trial, or to e his statement
i(I}.l.altiII6l'?, waives his right to move for a new trial. Canny v. Silvertltorne, 9

105. A failure to ills a statement, setting forth the grounds upon which a
party intends to rely, on motion for a new trial, operates as a waiver of the
right to the motion. Wing v. Owen, 9 Cal. 247.

106. If the statement on application for a new trial is filed more than dve
days after the filing and service of the notice, the right to move for a new
trial is waived, unless it appear from the transcript that the objection to the
failure to file the statement In season has been waived by the oppodte ,
either ex ressly or by implication. Munch v. Williamson et al., 24 C . 169.

107. a statement on motion for a new trial is not filed within five days
after notice of intention to move for a new trial is given, or within such further
time as maybe granted bythecourt, not exceeding twentydays, thought

tomoveteranewtrialiswaived. E v. Lat-co,24Cal. 179; Jenkinsv.
B'ial:,Sl‘7Id.387; LeBoyv. Rassettc,32C .171.

108. If a statement repared on motion for a new trial is not died within
the time prescribed by e one hundred and ninety-dtth section of the Practice
Act, the right to move for a new trial is waived; and where such ri ht is thus
waived, the Courthasnopowertorestore it. Hogderv. Hencbell, 2 Cal.-191.

109. If the statement on motion for a new trial is not dled in time, an order
p-an£§anewtrialforcauses;§pearinginsuehstatemantonlywillbe
"revs by the appellate Court. .

110. Amendment aher settlement.--A statement on motion for a new
trial, regnlarl settled and signed b the Judge, and containin all the
grounds of e motion, but withou any specidcation thereo , ma be
amended by the Judge so as to insert a specification of the grounds 0 the
nation, after the time for filing a statement has passed. Valentine v. Stewart,
15 Cal. 387. Valentine v. Stewart, 15 Cal. 396, that the Court below may
allow anamendnentto astatement on a motion for a new trial, by adding
the grounds‘ of the motion after the time for filing a statement has passed,
adirmed by Louclcs v. Edmondson, 18 Cal. 203.

111. On motion for new trial the Court below should not, unless ood reason be shown, receive an aihdavit made, after the time for tllin davits or
htesnautson the motion has elapsed. Howe v. Briggs, 17 Cal. .

112. If adeedismentioned in a statement on motion for a new trial, as
having been in evidence, but is not presented in the statement, the appellant

make it a part of the record on appeal byprinting it in the transcript,
wi a certidcate of the Judge that it is the deed referred to in the evidence,
a gt it was before him on ‘motion for a new trial.—Hess v. Winder, 30

113. When the specidcation in the statement is that the judgment is contrary to the evidence, it has been regarded as a clerical error, and that verdict
instead of judgment was intended. Wendt v. Rom, Oct. T. 1867.

114. A statement agreed on by parties should not probably be amended
Es Court on motion, unless under a very clear showmg of mistake or frau .
Hutchinson v. Bours, 13 Cal. 52.

115. The Court refused to remand the cause for the purpose of amending
the bill; but the Court declined to decide that a new bill, with proper
amendments, could not be filed. Mulford v. Colin, 18 Cal. 42.

116. The Court should not entertain a motion to amend the statement after
ithasbeenfiledandservedonthe opposite party. Levyv. Gdteson, 27 Cal.
3. See post, 6 338. “ Amendment of Statement.”

117. Statement cannot be stricken out—The Court should not strike
out a notice or statement on motion for a new trial, under any circumstances.
The motion should be denied, that the action of the Court may be reviewed on
sp Quincy v.- Gambert, 32 Cal. W4.

18. Ifthere neanyteehnicalgrounds uponwhich a motion for a new
trial may be resisted. such a failure to file and serve notice of motion, or to
dle statement in time, the proper practice is to raise such grounds on
the argument of the motion as areason why the motion should be denied. Id.

119. An order striking out a statement on motion for a new trial, cannot be
bought before the Supreme Court for review by a bill of exceptions. Id.

130. But an unauthentleatad document. purporting to be a statement
on motion for a new trial, will be stricken from the transcript on :;p:)eal. Id.
[l21. See further, 9338, as to manner of paring statements; , 9; 193,
MS, as to the remedial powers of the upreme Court, and decisions on
M from orders granting and denying motions for a new trial, and other
and decisions.)

12!. Bee further authorities under the following sub-heads to 5 193:

123. Generalmlqthatanew trlalwillnotbegrantedwherethereisa
lubstantialoontliotof evidence; §193,No.102.

124. Ihhruleajqaliesto lawaadequityeases alike, No. 108.

125. It does not apply where the evidence consists of depositions. No.
104.

126. It does apply to reports of commissioners, No. 105.
127. It applies to Endings by referees, No. 106.

I 1128. Referees’ report: and awards, when they will be disturbed, see 
8 , note 12.

N129. Supreme court will not weigh, but will review the evidence, when,
0. 112.

130. Paoilwlllnotberevlewedunlessanewtrialwasasked, No.11-1.

131. When the supreme court will and will not set aside a judgment,
verdict, nnding or order, as considering the evidence, No. 118.

N 132§o'.l!he presumption of law is. that the evidence warranted the verdict,
o. .

133. Bpecialcasesoi immaterialerrors, inadmitangorexcluding evidence, No. 139.
134. Giving a wrong reason for a decision, No. 153.
135. Granting new trial for immaterial errors, note, No. 157.

1361.‘ Bpggial cases, when new trials were granted, judgments modined,
etc., o. 1 .

137. New trial in equity oasell. No. 170.

138. When equitywlll andwlll not interfere. No. 175.

139. Dismissal of a motion amounts to a denial, No. 179.

140. When an appeal from an order will be dismissed, No. 180.

Nhillhga new trial granted for alleged errors of law will be reviewed,
0.

142. Illegal evidence presumed injurious, No. 183.
143. Errors occurring attheu-ial must be specially excepted test the
time, No. 184.

N14-1.97 The party must lay me iinger on the point of his objection,
o. 1 .

145. Granting or refusing a new trial. discretionary, No. 198.
146. A new trial will be granted when justice requires it, No. 203.

147. On a motion {or a new trial the Court cannot reverse a former judgment, No. 213.

22:48. Iliect of a stipulation that a motion for a new trial be denied, No.

1:19. Where an attorney appears without authority, No. 230.

160. Amdaviu in a foreign language may be excluded, No. 231.
151. Law of the case, No. 232.

152. County court may grant a new trial, No. 233.

§ 196. ‘Motion to be made without dehzy.

The application for a new trial shall be made at the earliest
period practicable after filing the affidavit or statement, and
the Court or Judge granting or refusing a new trial shall
state in writing the grounds upon which the same is granted

or refused.

‘Amended 1863, 361.
1. The fact that _instructionsgiven by the Court are lost or mislaid before a

motion for new tnal is heard, is no round to suspend the hearing of the
motion or for a new trial. Vishcr v. l§’ebster, 13 Cal. 58.

_2.The_J belowispresumedtoknowwhat instructionshegavethe

, and if ose writfin are out of the way, he may resort to other evidence
or s own memory.

3 A failure to prosecute a motion for a new trial when it comes up for
ugument, operates as an abandonment of the motion, and the order made
denying the motion, for such failure to a peer, is not the subject of review on
s . Frank v. Doane, and Green v. cane, 15 Cal. 302.

_If a motion for a new trial is not prosecuted with due diligence, it should
:18 on the application of the opposite party. Eclcstein v. Calderwood,
_ 5. If the Judge who tried a cause goes to a county in his district not adjoining the one in which the case was tried to hold Court, before the time for
ihng amendments to the statement on motion for a new trial has expired, the
moving party roseeutes the motion with due diligence if he brings the same
to a hearing w on the Judge returns or drst holds Court in a countgzsdjoining
the one in which the case was tried. Warden v. Mendocino County, Cal. 655.

 

TITLE XX.
CHAPTER VIII.—T7ze manner of giving and entering judgment.

Sxcnox 197. Judgment to be entered in twenty-four hours, etc.

198. Case may be brought before the Court for argument.

199. When counterclaim established exceeds plaintit1”s demand.

200. In replevin, judgment to be in the alternative, and with
damages.

201. Judgment book to be kept by the clerk.

202. If a party die after verdict, Judgment may be entered, but
not to be alien.

203. Judgment roll, what to constitute.

204. Jud ent lien, when it begins and when it expires.

205. Doc et, how kept, and what to contain.

206. Docket to be open for inspection without charge.

207. Transcript to be nled in any county, and judgment to become a lien there.

208. Satisfaction of a judgment, how made.

5 197. Judgment to be entered in twenty;four hours, etc.

When trial by jury has been had, judgment shall be entered by the clerk, in conformity to the verdict, within twentyfour hours after the rendition of the verdict, unless the Court
order the case to be reserved for argument, or further consideration, or grant a stay of proceedings.

§198. ‘Case may be brought before the Court for argument.

When the case is reserved for argument or further consideration, as mentioned in the last section, it may be brought

by either party before the Court for argument.
‘Amended 1854. 88.

§ 199. When counterclaim established exceeds plaintz_'f’s demand.

If a counterclaim, established at the trial, exceed the plaintiffl"s demand, so established, judgment for the defendant shall
be given for the excess ; or if it appear that the defendant is
entitled to any other affirmative relief, judgment shall be given
accordingly.

N. Y. Code, 9 263.

5 200. ‘In replevin, judgment to be in the alternative, and with
damages; gold coin or currency judgment.

In an action to recover the possession of personal property,
judgment for the plaintifff may be for the possession, or the
value thereof, in case a delivery cannot be had, and damages
for the detention. If the property has been delivered to
the plaintifff, and the defendant claim a return thereof, judgment for the defendant may be for a return of the property,
or the value thereof, in case a return cannot be had, and
damages for taking and withholding the same. In an action
on a contract or obligation in writing, for the direct payment
of money, made payable in a specified kind of money or currency, judgment for the plaintifff, whether the same be by default or after verdict, may follow the contract or obligation,
and be made payable in the kind of money or currency specified therein ; and in an action against any person for the recovery of money received by such person in a fiduciary capacity, or to the use of another, judgment for the plaintifff,
whether the same be by default, or after verdict, may be
made payable in the same kind of money or currency so

received by such person.
‘Amended 1863, 687.

1. Replcvin, damagea.—In an action of replevin in the detlnne, the value
which the plaintifff is entitled to recover under section 200 of the Practice Act.
in case a return of the roperty cannot be had, is the value of the property to
be ascertained at the p ace where it is detained when the action is commenced.
The defendants are not entitled to claim compensation for money or services
laid out or ex ended upon the plaintill‘ ’s property in the absence of a request
on his part. 0 request will be presumed when the property of one person is
taken under legal process issued. Hisler v. Carr, Jan. T. 1868.

2. The damages. when the propert has been delivered, is the legal interest
on the value thereof during the tention. Nicleeraon v. Chattertoa, 7 Cal.
568; Douglass v. Craft, 9 Id. 562.

3. See further ante, § 99, note No. 33§ 199. When counterclaim established exceeds plaint2_'f’s 4
mand.

If a counterclaim, established at the trial, exceed the plai
tiE’s demand, so established, judgment for the defendant sh:
be given for the excess ; or if it appear that the defendant
entitled to any other aliirmative relief, judgment shall be give
accordingly.

N. Y. Code, § 263.

5 200. ‘In replevin, judgment to be in the alternative, and to:
damages; gold coin or currency iudnmmt ' '

In an 9
judgment
value the
for the c
the plain
ment for
or the v
damages
on a cont
of money
rency, juc
fault or a

and be ms
ified ther

covery of

pacity, on ...
whether

made pa;

received

‘Amended mu:

1. Replcvin, d
which the plaintil
in case a return ol
be ascertained at ‘
The defendants ar.
laid out or ex and
on his part. 0 1-:
taken under legal

2. The damage:
on the value the
568; Douglass v. 0

3. See further a:

  
     
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
     
   
   
  
  

Inlegnleenaernotu.-In anaction to recover of
 -. , the plaiutid may recover its value in Uni States legal
arpey V. Shepherd, 30 Cal. 180. _

'- wfully converting property does not sustain any lngury if the
action to recover possession of die same dud its value in United

' coin judgments.-—If to a note, secured by a mort dulyre‘
-. able in nicnev. generally a supplement is afterwards a ded agreeing
'- 'ld coin, which sup lement is not recorded, the mortgage can be ena sale for gold co u, as against subsequent encumbruncers whose
- after the addition to the note. Poet! v. Stearns, 31 Cal. 78.

matter of law there is no possible difference in value between gold
.- tender notes, not can evidence he received to prove a dlference.

.  . . the kind of money received by the defendant is not in issue, and
received the same in a dduciary capacity. or to the use of another. it is

' t for the Court, upon a verdict for the amount of mono , to order Jud

b the kind of money received by him. Pinkerton v. oodward, Oct. .,

U ii anaccounti , aproinise in writing b the defendant to paythe
'_ foltrid due in oldlzgin, justifies a judgment 3;. gold coin. Dodge v. The
«on Co.,  1867.
In an action for money had and received where an account is introduced
- -u b the defendant, showin a ch e by the defendant’ ' the
2. ;:;. ; laintids claim of “c " pai to the plaintifff, an the only
_ mention in the testimony is gold coin, the 7Jury may find a verdict for
" ti! in gold coin. Wendi v. Ross, Oct. T. 186 .
‘- . There itis found b the Court in an action brought to redeem, "that
: tacitly understood y and between the laintiif and wife and the de_- t, that the conveyance made by plain ° to defendant was intended to
_ -- -. the repayment to said defendant of the sums paid and advanced by
. = with interest thereon, and not as an absolute conveyance of the remi', and that upon such payment in gold coin of the United States d deZ  nt would reconvey said remises to the plaintiff or the plaintifff's wife."
_ . judgment must require t e laintiif to pa the redemption money in gold
 not under the provisions 0 the Specific ontract Act, but upon the prin-  that “ he who seeks equity must do equity.” Coming v. Rogers, Jan. T.

12. Costs and interest in gold ooin—Where a contract is made tgayable

in a specidc kind of money, ‘the 'udgment enforcing it may enforce e payment of costs and interest in e kind ofmoney mentioned in the contract.

Ctzaadia v. Atherton, 25 Cal. 669.
Iiiserrorforthecourtto 'udge the costs in an actionforforcible
entry and detainer to be paid in gel coin. Moore v. Del Valle, 28 Cal. 170.

14. Gold and silver ooin.—Where a note is made payable “in and

silver coin," it is error to render judgment for gold coin alone. .
Stem-ne, Oct. T. 1867. V

16. Gold c_oin judgment not permitted, where.—Where suit is brought
on a general indebtedness without is written contract to pay, or on a written
contract to pay money generally, without designating the kind of mono , the
Court cannot render a udgment payable in a apecinc kind of money. (gin-too
v. Abadiedala. 25  502.

16. If a promissory note has the words “in gold coin" after the words
“value received," but does not contain the words “in gold coin" in the
promise to pay, judgment should not be rendered payable in old coin, although there is in the instrument a subsequent promise to y e diference
between the value of gold coin and phaper currency of U ted States, if not
paid in gold coin. Lamping v. Hyatt, Cal. 102.

17. In an action against the sureties upon a bond given by the general

guardianof an infantminoi-,but not made payable in any specinc lrindof
mone , a ju ent should not be rendered paya le in gold coin. Fbmv. Jfuear,
32 C . 111; endocino Co. v. Morris, Id. 149.

18. In an action against the principal and his sureties, on an omcial band,
if the bond contains no promise to pay in coin, judgment can only be rendered in money generally. This rule applies to the principal as well as sureties. Mendocino County v. Morris, 32 C . 145.

19. Where the jury, without particular instruction from the Court, return a
verdict payable in gold coin, though there was no evidence that either on or
after strikin a balance between the parties the defendant promised in wri '

t1:o8§’eyingodcoin,anewtrialwillbegranted. v.Boeben,Oct. .

20. Gold coin or it: equivalent-.—A contract to y money in dgold coin
of the United States, or the equivalent of such go d coin, i pai in legal
currency, is a contract to y the given number of dollars in any kind of lawful money of the United tates, and cannot be conferred in any specidc kind

1 of money. Reese v. Stearnes, 29 Cal. 273.

21. The Specific Contract Act does not authorize the entry of an alternative judgment upon such contract, payable in gold coin or its equivalent in
legal tender notes. Id.

22. Services, value in legal tender notea—In an action for the value of
services rendered, when no price has been agreed upon by the parties, if the
jury adopt treas notes, made by Act of Con ess a legal tender in payment of debts, as e standard of value, the vs ‘at will not be set aside on
that ground. Spencer et at. v. Prindle, 28 Cal. 276.

23. Rents.—Where the annual value of premises is found both in gold
and in currency, the judgment may be general for the amount of the currency
valuation. Cavpentier v. Small, Oct. T. 1866.

24. Tender, plea o£—If, by the laws of the United States, there is more
than one kind of lawful money a legal tender in payment of debts, and the
plaintiff in an action is entitled to a judgment paya le in a particular kind of
money, a plea of tender which avers the tender to have been made in lawful
money of the United States is insufficient. The plea should aver that the
tender was made in the kind of money the plaintifff is entitled to receive.
Magraw v. McGlynn, 26 Ca1..428.

25. Construction of section 200.—'1‘he two hundredth section of the
Practice Act, as amended in 1863, making provision for the entry of judgments
in certain cases payable in a specific kind of mono , confers a special authore

ity on Courts not lmown to common law, or urts of equity, and must
be strictly construed Hathaway v. Brady, 26 Cal. 586.

. 26. Judgments in a specific kind of money or ourrency.—-See ante,
$147, notes; 9150, note No. 21.

§ 201. Judgment book to be kept by the clerk.

The Clerk shall keep among the records of the Court, a
book for the entry of judgments, to be, called the “ Judgment
Book,” in which such judgment shall be entered, and shall

specify clearly the relief granted, or other determination of

the action.
N. Y. Code, § 280.

§ 202. If a party die after verdict, judgment may be entered,
but not to be a lien. ~

If a party die after a verdict or decision upon any issue of
fact, and before judgment, the Court may nevertheless render
judgment thereon. Such judgment shall not be a lien on the
real property of the deceased party, but shall be payable in
the course of administration on his estate.

1. The continuance of the name of a deceased plaintid’ instead of that of
his executor in a judgment rendered after the substitution, is an error of form
0n¥.wuii date]: not make the j11dg!!10l(lltleEO§)(1.f Gregory “Ed Haynésga 21 Cal;;(-113.

are e plaintifff in an action ' ore tnal,' a su qnent er
for jpddgment contained a “as fpllgws :1‘:  gong: having begxgmconi
tinu in consequence of the ea 0 t e p in ' , ' executor, ue
Webb, and the jury ha ' found a verdict for plaintiyf," and then awarded
judgment in ffatvlor of ghmlaintidz Held, tllainathtge  suiilciently showed as]

esuono e dea o the original’ p ' ’ , an acontinuance or reviv

 u:e, in the name of the executor. Id. f In an d

e eathofanap llant, after argument 0 ‘s case on appe , oes
not constitute any grounpd for delaying a decision, or a departing from the
ordinary course of ure, exce t as to the entry of the judgment which
may be rendeI:ed.BM e entry sh6<8> d be of a day anterior to the appellant's
death- Blac v. to, 20 Cal. .

4. The rule is different if the death occurs previous to the argument. In
that. event further proceedings can only be had upon leave given after suggeiuoii alpha diimmm mt?-3’ £5‘. t 'nst a fe a c h h 1. 1r

. irregur on u enagai aenan,onwose eaa
demurrer is on file, without disposing of the demurrer, and a judgment so enmed will be reversed on appeal. Hestres, administrator, v. Clements, 21 Cal.

§ 203. ‘Judgment roll, what to constitute.

Immediately after entering the judgment, the clerk shall
attach together and file the following papers, which shall
constitute the judgment roll:

First—-In case the complaint be not answered by any defendant, the summons, With the affidavit or proof of service,
and the complaint, with a memorandum endorsed upon the
complaint that the default of the defendant in not answering
F88 entered, and a copy of the judgment.

Second-—In all other cases, the summons, pleadings, verdict
of the jury, or finding of the Court, commissioner, or referee,
all bills of exceptions taken and filed in said action, copies of
orders sustaining or overruling demurrers, a copy of the
judgment, and copies of any orders relating to a change of
parties.

‘Amended 1862, 119; 1866, 846; N. Y. Code, § 281.
.1. A judgment does not depend upon the clerk performing his duty in
making the judgment roll, or in preserving the papers. If the facts necessary
to give jurisdiction to the Court exist, the judgment is good. Lick v. Stock. ap cm a ju en , out a statement, no ug tup
d‘i"(l>i:0'Lpe2.i19'rr dgm t with thing is bro h
or is a part of the record on appeal, except the judgment roll, and no question

' outside ef the roll can be considered. Ifany mrther reccrdisrequi it must be made in the form of a statement. Exceptions may be taken
and settled at the trial in the mode prescribed by sections 188, 189 and 190.
These under section 203 are annexed to and form a part of the judgment roll,
and thereforee constitute a part of the record on appeal from the judgment, on
the judgment roll alone. They are the only bills of exceptions known to our
Practice Act. Wetherbee v. Davis, Oct. T., 1867.

3. An answer, notwithstan ' an order to strike it out, is still entitled to it:
place in the 'udgment roll. A 7. Douglas. 28 Cal. 296.

4. Abillo exceptionsmadeduringthe ogress ofa tria1ahould,und¢
sections one hundred and eighty-eight, one undred andeighutay-nine, and two
hundred and three, of the Practice Act, be~written down. as ed, and signed
by the Judge, filed in the case, and afterwards annexed to the judgment roll.
Jzbore v. Del Valle, 28 Cal. 170.

6. If the clerkneglectstomakenpthe ' dgmentroll itdoesnotvitiate the
judgment nor the proceedings under it. harp V. , J en. T. 1868.

6. Until the amendment to the two hundred and ' section of the Puctice Act, the judgment roll was not uired to contain the order sustaining
or overmling a demurrer. Abadie v. arrilio, 32 Cal. 172.

7. If prior to said times demurrer to the complaint was filed, and a judgment by default was entered, and the appeal rested on the judgment roll, and
the same didvnct disclose what action was -taken on the demurrer, the 13-0sumption was that the demurrer was disposed of, and that the necessary puliminery steps were taken to obtain jndxlnent. Id.

8. In case of a judgment by default, the judgment roll consists of the
summons, the affidavit or proof of service, the complaint, with the default
indorsed thereon, and a copy of the judgment. For the purpose of detamining whether a want of jurisdiction is shown by the record, the Court can
only lookto the judgment roll Helm Y. Kelly, Oct. '1‘. 1867.

9. Nothing is included in the record of a suit but the judgment roll. Where
judgment is taken by default, the judgment roll therein consists of the summons, roof of service, complaint, with memorandum indorsed thereon, that
the de suit of the defendant in not answering was entered, and a copy of the
ju ent. Sharp v. Daugney, Oct. T. 1867.

1.Thech-oumatancethat rsnotbelongingtothej entrollare
found commingled with or attac ed to other pa rs that do ong to it, can
create no embarrassment. The case is one of mgture, not of fusion. 13.

11. An affidavit upon which to base a motion to strike out an answer, and
notice of such motion and affidavit of its service, constitute no part of the
ju t roll. Dimiclc 1'. Campbell, 31 Cal. 238.

1 . See further, $346, “ Transcript."

§ 204. Judgment Lien, when it beginsand when it expires.

Immediately after filing a judgment roll the clerk shall
make the proper entries of the judgment, under appropriate
heads, in the docket kept by him; and from the time the
judgment is docketed, it shall become a lien upon all the real
property of the judgment debtor, not exempt from execution
in the county owned by him at the time, or which he may
afterwards acquire, until the said lien expires. The lien
shall continue for two years, unless the judgment be pre.
viously satisfied.

1. A conveyance made without authority will not afoot the lieu of a jndgr
ment. Smith v. Alone, 2 Cal. 594.

2. '.l‘heju<lgmentd_ebtorcannot.setuperrotsin dookethgthe judgmental

. , pa
norighttocomp ' . Lowv.Adams,6 al.277.

3. Lien cannot be extended.—The issuing and levy of an execution before
the lieu of the judgment upon which the execution issued expires. will not operate to prolong the lieu of the judgment beyond the time limited in section two
hundred and four of the Code. Isaac v. Swift. 10 Cal. 71.

4. It required express words of the statute to create the lien, and it equally
requires express words to continue it beyond the time specltied. Id.

5. The levy and sale must both be made within the period of two years limited by statute. Id. .

6. An appeal from a judgment suspends the lien, ‘which is merely an incidat; and the statutory limitation of the lien commences to run only from the
date of the rcmittitur from the appellate Court. Dewey v. Latson, 6 Cal. 130.

7. If an undertakin on appeal to the Supreme Court be insumcient in amount
to stay proceedings, t e lieu of the judgment is not extended by the appeal beyond two years from the time of its clocketing ; and this, where the undertaking
was excepted to, there being no edort to enforce the judgment pending the

appeal. Guy v. Du Uprey, 16 Cal. 194.

8. What property is subject to.-—'l‘hc lieu of a judgment is purely the
creature of statute; and in this State, the statute only provides that s judgunent
dull become a lien from the time it is doeketed upon the property of the judgment debtor, “ not exem t from execution,” which means upon property not
subject to forced sale. e homestead is not subject to such sale, either on
aicution or any other tlnal process of the Court. Aclcley v. Chamberlain, 16

. 181. '

9. The statutory lien ofs judgment upon the real estate of the judgment debtor
attaches only upon property in which such debtor has a vested legal interest.
I’ v. Irwin, 14 Cal. 428. .

l . A judgment recovered against the husband does not become alien on the
homestead, and a sale of the homestead upon an execution issued on such judgment is void. Aclcley v. Ghantba-lain, 16 Cal. 181. . .

11. Where, in a foreclosure suit, the judgment is inthe usual form-—asccrtsining the amount due, directing a sale of the mortgaged premises, application '

of the proceeds to the payment of the debts, providing for the recover of any
dellciency, and authorizin execution for the same—such 'udgmeut oes not
become a lien on the rea estate of the debtor from the me it is docketed.
C ' v. Broder. 16 Cal. 403.

1 . 8::-y: Whether a leasehold estate for stern of years is roperty in such
;;naL reoa judgment docketed becomes a lien thereon. No v. Burke,

0 .

13. In this State a judgment cannot become a lien upon the homestead.

It can become a lien only upon the real property of the 'ndgment debtor.
Bowman v. Norton, 16 Cal. 213. r J

14. A judgment obtained and docketed in the Superior Court of the city of
San Francisco, became a lien u n the real property of the judgment debtor,

not exempt from execution, wi ' the county of San Ihanensco. Bowman v.
Houious, 17 Cal. 471.

15. What does. or does notrelease a l1en.—The paymentby a judgment
debtor of the 'udgment, after a sherifs sale, extingmshes the hen; and the
fsetthat he. a transfer 0! the certificate and the sherifs deed, instesdof
a certificate of redemfatian. cannot divest the lieu of a subsequent judgment.
‘gig ‘ V. crfehtiug 3 Cd. 79.does release th nu-ed dochetiug

. e _ an ap -not e lien '
the’ e‘:tLowv.A ,6Cal.277. _ ml by

1. e aetof April, 1856, area’ San Mateo county onto! a portion at
the territory of the county of San cisco, did not destro or afeet judgment liens than existing; but such liens continued upon the nd of the judgmsut debtor, notexcmpt from execution, until the expiration of the statutory
period, without recording the-judgment in the count of San Mateo, where

thelasdslie. Andrecordingthe judgmentin this tter county, atter the

docketing in the Superior Court, will not revive the lien. Bowman 7.
.Hovz'ous, 17 Cal. 471.

13. When the lien begins to run, and when it expires.—The two years
during which a judgment remains a lien on real estate commence to run from
the docketing of the judgment, unless the judgment is staged by an order of
the Court pending a motion for new trial, or a stay boun on appeal. Barm‘i3d'iiaHaumwdy' 31 Ci} 395' an edb rd r th Court

. etime uringw ic rocee'ngsaresta yo ero e or
a stay bound on appeal, must be excluded from a computation of the time
duri which the judgment remains a lien. Id.

20. f any time is allowed to elapse between the docketing of the judgment and the stay of proceedings, such time must be included in the computation of the time during which the judgment remains a lien. Id.

21. Where an a peal has been taken, and a bond sumcient to stay proceedings upon the ju ment pending the ap eal has been given, the lieu of the
judgment upon the real estate of the_ ju ent debtor in the county where
the same was docketed, owned by him at the date of the docketmg of the
judgment or subse_ uently acquired, until the lien expires, remains a valid and
subeistm hen un the end of two cars from and after the date of the remittitur cm the Supreme Court. _ und v. Lewis at al., 26 Cal. 350.

22. In foreclosure cases, where there is a 'udgment in personam, and also a
judgment enforcing a lien and directing a s e of the ‘property, and the undertaking on_ a peal only stays the sale, and provides or costs, the hen of the
personal ju ent on the judgment debtor s roperty in the county where it
isdocketed, attaches at the time 1tisdocke_ ande esat the endcftwo
“ii” $".’§’3,Z.‘1‘i'~“r.';.f."§ Rfmagmniié§3§,?'eZ‘3i‘fu§°fs‘2§f°w‘mci§"as merely .1. as
dent, and the statutory limitation of the lien commences to run only from
the date of the remittitur from the appellate Court. Dewey v. Ialsoa, 6 Cal.
130. [But see Chopin v. Brodsr, 16 C . 404, and authorities there cited.)

24. Decree tor sale of property not a judgment llen.——In foreclosure
cases, if the plaintifff does not obtain a personal judgment against the defendant, but contents himself wiih a decree enforcing the lien and directing a sale
of the property, such decree does not become a judgment lien on the other

roperty of the judgment debtor until after a sale has been had and the deKciency, if there be one, ascertained and docketed, and then only for the
amount of such deficiency. Englund v. Lewis et al., 25 Cal. 349.

25. If in an action brought to recover judgment for a debt and to foreclose
a mortgage given to secure the same, a judgment in personam is rendered for
the amount due, and directing a sale of the mortgaged premises and an application of the proceeds to the payment of the judgment, the ‘udgment, even
if docketed, does not become a lien upon the real property 0 the defendant
until the mo ed property has been sold by the sheriff, and the balance, if
any, reported him and docketed by the clerk, and then only for such balance. Oulver 1. Rogers, 28 Cal. 620.
‘ § 205. Docket, how kept, and what to contain.

The docket mentioned in the last section is a. book which
the clerk shall keep in his allies, with each page divided -into
eight columns, and headed as follows: judgment debtors;
judgment creditors; judgment: time of entry; where entered in judgment book ; appeals, when taken; judgment of
appellate Court; satisfaction of judgment, when entered. If
judgment be for the recovery of money or damages, the

f

amount shall -be stated in the docket under the head of judgment; if the judgment be for any other relief, a memorandum of the general character of the relief granted shall be
stated. The names of the defendants shall be entered in the
docket in alphabetical order.

1. The docketing of a judgment im constructive notice of the lien of
the judgment on the real estate of e judgment debtor to strangers to the

judgment. Page v. Rogers, 31 Cal. 293.

§ 206. Docket to be open for inspection without charges.

The docket kept by the Clerk shall be open at all time“
during oilice hours for the inspection of the public, without
charge ; and it shall be the duty of the Clerk to arrange the
several dockets kept by him in such a manner as to facilitate

their inspection.

§207. Transcript to be filedin any county, andjudgwnent to
become a lien there.

A transcript of the original docket certified by the clerk
may be filed with the Recorder of any other county, and from
the time of the filing the judgment shall become a lien upon
all the real property of the judgment debtor not exempt from
execution in such county owned by him at the time, or which
he may afterwards acquire, until the said lien expires. The
lien shall continue for two years, unless the judgment be

previously satisfied.

See § 237. N. Y. Code, § 282.

1. Section two hundnrzl anttlléplrty-six of thetfractice Act atiithorizeggnin foreclosure suits, a perso ’ t against e mortgagor or any cienc
which, when docketed, beyameseag lien. But the mere contingent provision’:
for execution in case of deficiency, etc., does not amount to a personal judgment. and to such provision no etfect can be given as a lien, until the amount
of the denciency has been ascertained and fixed. And the lien does not commence to run until the dencien be ascertained, and an execution be issued
therefore. Chapin v. Broder, 16 al. 420.

2. Upon filing a certined copy of a judgment with a county recorder, it
becomes a lien u n the debtor's real property in that county for two years
from the date of e Ming, notwithstanding a lien b virtue of the same Judgmet has previousl existed and expired by lapse 0 time in another county.
Donner v. Palmer, Cal. 40.

3. Under section two hundred and seven of the Practice Act, the ' ofa
transcript of a judgment docket of a District Court with the recorder 0 any
other county makes it a lien upon the real estate in that county, but it does
not make it a ju ent of the District Court for that county. The county
clerk, as such, not e clerk of the District Court, to issue execution. District

Courts have no  to issue writs of assistance in cases of sales‘ upon judgBents rengerjestlm by justices of the peace orother District Courts. People V.
os, an. . .

§ 208. Satisfaction of a judgment, how made.
Satisfaction of a judgment may be entered in the clerk’a

~docket upon an execution returned satisfied, or upon an

acknowledgment of satisfaction filed with the clerk, made in
the manner of an acknowledgment of a conveyance of real
property, by "the judgment creditor; or‘ within one year
;after the judgment by the attorney, unless a revocation of
his authority be previously filed. Whenever a judgment
‘shall be satisfied in fact, otherwise than upon an execution, it
shall be the duty of the party, or attorney, to give such
acknowledgment, and upon motion the Court may compel it,

or may order the entry of satisfaction to be made without it.
Banssoffs Forms,-997-1000.

1. A levy under execution on sumcient property to satisfy it, is a satisfaction of the judgment. People v. Chisholm, 8 ‘al. 30. ‘See also, 23 Id. 94.

2. Before suit was bro ht the tiifs (l with their attorneys that if
‘the latter brought this ac ‘on an recove , they should have one-third of
the judgment and costs as compensation. After judgment and execution
issued, the lainti3‘s compromised with the defendant for less than the
‘amount of e judgment, and entered satisfaction upon the record. Held,

_that the §  had no lien on the judgment, and could not disturb the satisfaction en the plaintiffs. Mamgridd v. Dorland, 2 Cal. 607. [See anVparte ‘Kyle, 1 Gal. 1.] _ . _ _

3. A tender does not extinguish or satisf the obligation; an oifer to comply‘ with the commands of a judgment oes not amount to a satisfaction
thereof. Reddington v. Chase, Jan. T. 1868.

4. The return of a sherin‘ indorsed on an execution placed in his hands for

A collection, that the execution is satisned by promissory notes received for the

amount due on it, it is not evidence of t e satisfaction of the judgment on
which it was issued, nor can it be admitted in evidence as tending to prove a
‘satisfaction of the same. Mitchell v. Hoclaett et al., 25 Cal. 542.
5. The plaintifff in an execution may accept of promissory notes by a special agreement, as an absolute yment of the same, but the ent must
be proved by testimony other the Sheriff's certidcate. I .

6. Discharge of a judgment.——A payment of part of the amount due
nponamo , judgmen under an agreement that it shall o to as satis{action in will not harge the udgdment. Deland v. iett, 27 Cal. 611.
»['1'hisrulaischonged. See Stat. 186 -8, 1.]

TITLE XXI.

OF THE EXECUTION 0]’ THE JUDGMENT IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

Onarrns I.--The execution.

8:0-non 209. Within what time an execution may issue.

210. Who me issue it; its form; to whom directed; and what
it sh require.

211. When all the defendants were not served wim summons,
what to direct. _

212. When made returnable.

213. Money judgments and others, how enforced.

214. Execution after dve years.

215. When execution may issue against the property of a party
after his death.

218. Execution may be issued to the she:-id’ of any county;
when against the property of the defendent; otherwise
when it requires the delivery of real and personal
v*°Im~

217. What be liable to be seized in execution; not tabs
affected till a levy is made. "

218. Whensproperty is claimed bya third party; how the right
of property to be tried.

219. What roperty shall be exempt from execution.

220. Writ, ow executed

221. Notice of sale under execution, how given.

222. Belling without notice, what enalty attached.

223. Sales, how conducted; neit er the officer conducting it
nor his deputy to be a purchaser; real and personal
Rlroperty, how sold; judgment debtor if resent

'rect order of sale, and the officer follow 1‘
directions.

224. If purchaser refuses to pay purchase money, what proc

225. Court or ustice may proceed in a summarymanner against
a purchaser refusing to pay; omoer may refuse such
purchaser's bid after.

These two sections not to make officer liable beyond a cor»

P mmimomm bl 1 ml deh 1: a 11

ersona property capa e 0 man ‘very, ow e vP mdmilo Pu ' bl f ual d 1: h
erso rortnotca eoman e°ve,ov
sold dgfivgred. Pa - 17

Real property, when absolute sale or not; in the latter-case
what the certificate must contain.

Real property so sold, by whom it may be redeemed.

When it may be redeemed; and redemption money.

When judgment debtor or other redemptioner may redeem.

In case of redemption, to whom the payments are to be
m e.

What must a redemptioner do, in order to redeem.

Until the expiration of redemptiontime, Court may restrain
waste on the property; what shall be considered waste.

i‘:"*° “ad *"°':“:~.,.':’*° ‘° '° '°.;°:*'::,~ ... ....,... —.

urc asero rope e ct or ' an'eI

n the sale, wbatpshallrthe recover, and from whom.

When judgment to be revived. Petition for the purpose, how and by whom made.

§ 209. Within what time an execution may issue

5?-§§§?3§§;§

The party in whose favor judgment is given, may, at any
time within five years after the entry thereof, issue a writ of

execution for its enforcement, as prescribed in this chapter. '

N. Y. Code, § 283. See 99 214, 601, 602. Applicable to Justices’ Courts,

post, Q 601, 602.
1. An execution can only be issued upon a judgment obtained before a justice of the within five years after the entry of the judgment. Wlfile v.

Clark, 8 C . 513. The dve years of limitation within which an execution for

an unsatisfied balance on a foreclosure sale may be taken out, commences to
run from the date of the 'u ent of foreclosure, and not from the date when

the balance was docke owers v. Crury, 30 Cal. 621.

2. Every process which may be required to completely enforce a judgment
must be taken ‘within dve ears after its entry. I .

3. The statute limiting s time for issuing execution upon a jud ent to
'£ve years after its entry, applies to ju ents rendered in suits to oreclose
gfrlnortgage, equally as to mere person judgments. Stout v. Macy, 22 Cal.

4. The period duri which an execution has been stayed by an order of

Court is not to be exc nded from the five years, after the lapse of which an

order of Court was necessary to obtain an execution. Solomon v. Maguire, 29

Cal. 227. '
5. If the defendant in a judgment delivers to the plaintiff therein a remissory note of third parties in satisfaction of the same, which is void use

fl-audulergldy obtained by defendant from the payers, it is not necessary for
the plain ' to return the note before enforcing his judgment by execution.

Mitchell v. Hocloett et at., 25 Cal. 544.

6. If an appellate Court amrms the judgment of the Court below, with
costs, and u n the nling of its mandate of adirmance in the Court below, an
order is e directing a new jud ent to be entered up in’ accordance with

the directions of the mandate, suc new judgment, although it may be erroneous or irre , is not void so as to invalidate an execution issued on the

same. Mul ord v. Estudillo, 23 Cal. 94.
7. As soon as the judgment is entered, an execution may issue, whether the

judgment roll has been made up or not. Sharp v. Lumley, Jan. T. 1868.
§ 210. ‘ Whb may issue the execution, its form," to whom directed and what it shall require.

The writ of execution shall be issued in thename of the
people, sealed with the seal of the Court, and subscribed by
the Clerk, and shall be directed to the sherid, and shall intelligibly refer to the judgment, stating the Court, the county

where the judgment roll is filed, and if it be‘ for money, the
amount thereof, and the amount actually due thereon, and if

made payable in a specified kind of money or currency, as
provided in section two hundred of this act, the execution
shall also state the kind of money or currency in which the
judgment is payable, and shall require the sheriff, substantially as follows: ‘

First——If it be against the property of the judgment debtor,
it shall require the sherid to satisfy the judgment, with interest, out of the personal property of such debtor, and ii sailicient personal property cannot be found, then out of his real
property; or if the judgment be alien upon real property,
then out of the real property belonging to him on the day
when the judgment was docketed; or if the execution be
issued to a county other than the one in which the judgment
was recovered, on the day when the transcript of the docket
was filed in the oihce of the recorder of such county, stating
such day, or any time thereafter.

Second—If it be against real or personal property in the
hands of the personal representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants of real property, or trustees, it shall require
the sheriff to satisfy the judgment, with interest, out of such
property.

77u'rd—If it be against the person of the judgment debtor,
it shall require the sheriff to arrest such debtor and commit
him to the jail of the county until he pay the judgment, with
interest, or be discharged according to law.

Fourth——If it be issued on a judgment made payable in a

specified kind of money or currency, as provided in section ,

two hundred of this act, it shall also require the sheriff to
satisfy the same in the kind of money or currency in which
said judgment is made payable, and the sheriff shall refuse
payment in any other kind of money or currency ; and in
case of levy and sale of the property of the judgment debtor
he shall refuse payment from any purchaser at such sale in
any other kind of money or currency than that specified in
the execution. The sheriff collecting money or currency in
the manner required by this act, shall pay to the plaintifff or
party entitled to recover the same, the same kind of money
or currency received by him, and in case of neglect or refusal
so to do, he shall be liable on his ollicial bond to the judgment creditor in three times the amount of the money so collected.

Fzfth—-If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or
personal property, it shall require the sheriff to deliver the
possession of the same, particularly describing it,to the party
entitled thereto, and may, at the same time, require the

sherid to satisfy any costs, damages, rents, or profits, recovered by the same judgment, out of the personal property of
the person against whom it was rendered, and the value of the
property for which the judgment was rendered, to he speciiied therein if a delivery thereof cannot be had; and if sudicient personal property cannot be found, then out of the real
property, asprovided in the first subdivision of this section.

‘Amended'1863. 688. N. Y. Code, § 289. Sec. 210. Abb. Forms, 1839, 1848.
Applicable to Justices’ Courts.

1. Issuance or exeout:ion.—A mandamus will not lie against the clerk of
the District Court to compel him to issue execution. Goodwin v. Glaser, 10
Cal. 333; Miller v. Sanderson, Id. 490.

2. Where the clerk of the District Court improperly refuses to lune execution on a judgment rendered in the Court of which he is clerk, on the ground
that the judgment has been attached at the suit of another party, a bill of equity
cannot be sustained to release the attachment and compel the clerk to issue the
execution, as the injured arty has his remedy at law, by an action on the omcial bond of the clerk. iller v. Sanderson, 10 Cal. 489.

3. The clerk below can issue execution for damages and costs. llclfillan v.
Vischer, 14 Cal. 232. ' ‘

4. The clerk of the Court has power to issue a -uenditioni «pond: at common
law, or under the statute “tor ulate proceedings in the District Courts,” of
1850, page twenty-four, which ant orizes the Court to frame new writs and process. and to issue such executions and other writs as may be necessary to
their judgment into full force and elfect. Smith v. lllorse, 2 Cal. 524.

5. Where a case is remitted from the Supreme Court to a District Court, the
clerk of the latter may issue an execution for the costs accrued thereon without
the order of the District Court‘; nor can the District Court prevent the immediate execution of the judgment. City of Marysville v. Buchanan, 3‘Cal. 213.

6. Where a judgment is against two, one only of whom appeals, and the appeal is dismissed with twenty per cent. damages, the damages with the costs 0
not become part of the original judgment, and the redcmptioner is not bound
to pay them when he redeems from a sale under the jud ment. The Court begiw can issue execution for these damages and costs. cdhllan v. Fischer, 14

al. 241.

7. An execution must be warranted by the judgment. Ifit exceeds the judgment, it has no validity. Davis v. Robinson, 10 Cal. 411.

8. An order of Court made, staying all proceedings against a petitioner under
the Insolvent Law for a discharge from his debts pending his petition, would
not prevent the issuance of an execution on a judgment rendered against the
petitioner, and a sale of pro erty under the same, within the time limited for
the lieu of said judgment. saac v. Sun’ . 10 Cal. 71. ’

9. If, as contended in this case, agu gment by default be void, because of
the absence of the seal of the District ourt to the summons issued in the action
in which the judgment was entered, or because of a defect in the certificate at
the service of the summons and copy of com laint, or because of irregularities
of the clerk, in entering the judgment, the D strict Court can quash the execution issued on such judgment, and injunction to restrain the enforcement thereof
does not lie. Logan v. Hillegass. 16 Cal. 200.

10. No execution can issue upon a judgment rendered against a county.
When a judgment is rendered against a county it is the duty of the an
to apply such funds in the treasury of the county as are not otherwise appropriated to its payment, or if there are no funds, and they possess the requisite
power to levy a tax for that purpose, and if they fail or refuse to ap ly the
funds, or to execute the power, resort may behad to a mandamus. But it they
have no funds, and the power to levy the tax has not been delegated to them,
tll‘1)eCLp-gislpture must be invoked for additional authority. Emeriov. Gilman,

a . 40 . ' 11. A judgment unreversed and not suspended may be enforced; but when

reversed, it _is as it’ never rendered, and money collected by authori of it
may, as a general rule, be necovered back. Raun v. Reynolds, 18 Cal. 2 5.

12. Where an appellant failed to perfect his appeal bond by justification of
hk sureties, it was error for the Judge of the Court to make an order of superaifusssstayiug the execution. Mole. Hill Canal if: M. 00. v. Woodbury, 10

.' l .

13. Where auiexecutiou on a judgment for money is not stayed by the statutoiz undertaking on up eal, a sale ma be had under the‘ execution, and the
rig ts ofpurchasers are _ no respect , acted by the subsequent reversal of the
judgment. Farmer v. Rogers, 10 Cal. 335.

14. The acts upon which a judgment of fraud is found must appear atllrma»
tively in a 'udgment in order to authorize an arrest on dual process. Matooa
v. Rider, 6 al‘. 60.

15. A confession of judgment to a bona jide creditor, and the issuance of
execution and making a le under the same by the judgment debtor without
me  of the ju%ent creditor, done with the knowledge that
another creditor is about to attach, and for the purpose of defeatin his
attachment. is void as to the attaching creditor. Ryan 1. Duly, 6 Cal. .

16. The improper issuance of a second execution is no groupd for equitable
interference. Such irregularities must be corrected by the Court issuing the
writ. Gregory v. Ford, 14 Cal. 143.

17. A Judge at chambers has ‘authority to order a suspension of proceedings
underan execution until a motion before the Court to recall or quash it can
beheard. Sanchez v. Carriage, 31 Cal. 170.

18. When a judgment is reversed b the Supreme Court, and the case
remanded for further proceedings, and e Clerk of the Court below issues an
execution for all the costs, as well those of a peal as those accruing before
notice of appeal was dled, the Judge of the Cgurt below has war to make
an order staying the execution in the hands of the sheriff un ' an application
anal: iggaie to the Court to retax and adjust the costs. Ea; parts Burrill et al.,

19. If a judgnent upon which an execution issues, and the execution itself,
are void upon eir face, the Court has power, on motion, to aford relief, and
can arrest the process. Sanchez v. Carriage. 31 Cal. 170. '

1). If, after a ‘udgment recovered by an attaching creditor has been satistsd, he is  to sell attached pro under execution, the defendant in the execution may move to uash e writ and not go into equity for
relief. Domecv.8tearns,30Cal.11 - '

21. The suit of seire faciasis a remedy unknown to our practice, and cannot
lg afllogged for the revival or enforcement of a judgment. Humiston v. Smith,

22. Under section two hundred and seven of Practice Act, the tiling of a
transcript of a judgment docket of a District Court with the recorder of any
other county, makes it a lien n the real estate in that county, but it does
not make it a judgment of ‘the ‘strict Court for that county. The county
ele:k,as such,not the clerk ofthe District Court, is to issue execution.
District Courts have no power to issue writs of assistance in cases of sales
gran ju cuts rendered by Justices of the Peace or other District Courts.

we 1. , Jan. '1‘. 1867. .

. Where a referee reported as facts the existence and validity of a judgment more than nve years old. and also reported a judgment that execution
issue on the same, but dated that he had not passed on the question whether
the judgment had been paid by an alleged accord and satisfaction: Held,
Iiatanoi-derofOourtoo?ndrmingther'e oftherefereedoesnotauthorize

% issuance of an execution on the ju ent. Solomon v. Haguiro, 29 Cal.

24.AwI1tof.esIhtanoeean‘onl issneapinstthedefendantsinthe
suit, and parties holding under them w o are bound by the decree. Burton
v.Ihs,2iCal.87. t V
25. theCourt,inanactiontoforeeloseamortgage,doesnotacqun'e
onofthepsrsonowningthelandattbetimeoftheforsclosure,a
vritofassista:ncsagainsttheownsrorhisgrantees.willberefused. Stein26. Prima faeie, allwho come into possession of land after an ac1a'on‘is
brought to recover possession of it,_must go out, if the p1aint11_!’ recover, and
a writ of habere faczas possewionem 18 issued; for the. presumption is, nothing
appearing to the contrary, that they came in under the defendant.  person
found in possession of land, and turned_ out by a writ of habere facras possessionem, if he was not a party to the amt. Lease v. Clark, 29 Cal. 664.

Beepost, § 246, note. No. 66; sub-head, “ Writ of Assistance."

§211. ‘When all the defendants were not served with summons, what to direct.

When a writ of execution is issued on a judgment recovered against two or more persons, in an action upon a joint
contract, in which action all the defendants were not served

with summons, or did not appear, it shall direct the Sherid‘ to
satisfy the judgment out of the joint property of all the
defendants, and the individual property only of the defendants who were served or who appeared in the action. In
other respects, the writ shall contain the directions specified

in subdivisions one and four of the last section.

1Amended 1863, 688. Applicable to Justices’ Courts.

1. When judgment is taken jointly against two defendants, it makes no
diference, so far as the are concerned, whether the sheriff nrst levied on
joint property or not. v. Adams, 6 Cal. 277.

§ 212. When made returnable.

The execution may be made returnable, at any time not less
than ten nor more than sixty days after its receipt by the
Sherilf, to the Clerk with whom the judgment roll is filed;
when the execution shall have been returned, it shall be the
duty of the Clerk to attach the same to the judgment roll. If
any real estate be levied upon the Clerk shall record the execution and the return thereto at large, and certify the same
under his hand as true copies, in a book to be called the
“ Execution Book,” which book shall be indexed with the
names of the plaintifffs and defendants in execution alphabetically arranged, and kept open at all times during office hours
for the inspection of the public, without charge ; and shall be
evidence of the contents of the originals whenever they or

any part thereof may be destroyed, lost, or mutilated.

c("1Amended 1866, 703. See N. Y. Code. § 290. Applicable to Justices’
urts.

1. The time in which a sherif makes return to an execution does not afoot
the validity of the execution or of a sale under it. Low v. Adams, 6 Cal. 227.

2. Ashe:-if has noright, aftermakingareturn, toamend itaoastoafeet
rights which have already vested. Newhall v. Provost, 6 Cal. 86.

3. A sheriff’s return is not traversable, and a Court will not permit it to be
attacked collaterally. even if the officer is shown to have been guilty of fraud
and collusion. Egery v. Buchanan, 5 Cal. 56.

4. The return of an attachment cannot be amended so as to postpone the

rights of creditors attaching subse uently, but before the correction. Newhall

v. Provost, 6 Cal. 87; W v. aworth, 8 Id. 25.

5. The presumptions are in favor of the regularity of the acts of the omoers.
Bitter v. Scannelt, 11 Cal. 248.

6. The term “appurtenances." used in the return of a levy by a sherif, is
too general, vague and indefinite to comprehend in its meamn any rsonal
goperty as the sub'ect of levy; nothing, thereforee, is pass by e sale.

same v. Thomas, Cal. 470.

7. Courts cannot know an under onicer, and the act and return of a deputy

Iherif is a nulli , unless done in the name and by the authori of his principal. Joyce v. 03/06, 5 Cal. 449. [Anirmed inltowtey v. Howar , 23 Cal. 401.]

§ 213. ‘Money judgments and others, how enforced.

Where the judgment requires the payment of money or the
delivery of real or personal property, the same may be enforced by a writ of execution ; when it requires the performanoe of any other act, a certified copy of the judgment may
be served upon the party against whom the same is rendered,
or upon the person or officer required thereby or by law to
obey the same; obedience thereto may be enforced by the
Court; and after a final judgment of partition the Court

shall have power to enforce a severance of the possession.

2 ‘Amended 1866, 703. Applicable to Justices’ Courts.

1. A levy under an execution, upon sufficient personal property to satisfy
the same, is a satisfaction of the judgment, sumcient at least to discharge
third persons who are liable collaterally or as sureties therefore; and c
release of the property from levy thus made, without consent of the parties
thus liable, cannot revive their liability. Mulford v. Est-uditlo, 23 Cal. .

2. The law does not deem such a payment, but-it is a satisfaction or discharge. Id. See also 8 Cal. 80.

3. Where process of a Court, as an execution, commanding the sherin‘ to deliver possession of a chattel, has been finally and completely executed, the
power of the sheriff under it, and the authority of the Court to enforce it,
cease; and a wrong doer, afterwards trespassing upon the person thus put in
possession. cannot be deemed guilty of contem t for disobedience to the procase of the Court. Per Bennett, J. Loring v. llsley, 1 Cal. 24.

§ 214. ‘Execution after nve years.

In all cases, other than for the a recovery of money, the
judgment may be enforced or carried into execution after the
lapse of five years from the date of its entry, by leave of the
Court, upon motion, or by judgment for that purpose founded
on supplemental pleadings.

‘Amended 1866, 704. Applicable to J nstices’ Courts.

§ 215. ‘When executi'on may issue against the propertyrqf a
party after his 

Notwithstanding the death of a party after the judgment,
execution thereon may be issued, in case of the death of the
plaintiff, the same as if he were living, upon the application_
of his executor, or administrator, or successor in interest, by
the Court in which the judgment was rendered or exists.
And in case of the decease of the defendant, if the judgment
be for the recovery of real or personal property, execution
may be issued and executed against the property recovered
in the same manner and with the same effect as if he were
still living.

‘Amended 1863-4, 452. Applicable to Justices’ Courts.
1. The one hundred and forty-first section of the Act relating to the estates

of deceased persons applies onl to money judgments. or to such one of
other judgments as require for t eir satisfaction execution against e general
property of the deceased. Gowell v. Buclcelew, 14 Cal. 641.

§ 216. ‘Execution, how and to whom issued.

Where the execution is against the property of the judgment debtor, it may be issued to the.Sheriil' of any county in
the State. Where it requires the delivery .of real or ‘personal property, it shall be issued to the Sheriff of the county

where the property, or some part thereof, is situated. Executions may be issued, at the same time, to different counties.
Applicable to Justices’ Courts.

§ 217. ‘What shall be liable to be seized in execution; not to
be afected till a levy is made.

All goods, chattels, monies, and other property, both real
and personal, or any interest therein of the judgment debtor,
not exempt by law, and all property and rights of property,
seized and held under attachment in the action, shall be
liable to execution. Shares and interests in any corporation
or company, and debts and credits, on all other property,
both real and personal, or any interest in either real or personal property, and all other property not capable of manual
delivery, may be attached on execution, in like manner as
upon writs of attachments. Gold dust shall be returned by
the oliicer as so much money collected, at its current value,
without exposing the same to sale. Until a levy, property
shall not be affected by the execution.

‘Amended 1862, 568. Applicable to Justices’ Courts. See ante, M 124, 125,
. 126, 127, 128; also, post, § 219.

1. G-anerally.—I-‘uller purchased seine yolres of oxen of Helm, the appellant, for $1,000, paid two hundred dollars down, and gave his note, with O.
as surety, for the balance; 0. signed with the s condition that title to
the oxen was to remain in Helm till they were y d foi-—Fuller was to
have the absolute use of them. The oxen were in the handsof a
brother of Helm, who was in the emglloy of Fuller as a driver, with the intention of seem-ing the title in He . The defendant, a constable, ‘levied
upon and sold the oxen thus situated, as the property of Fuller. Held, that
the sale by Helmto Fuller was absolute ; and that Fuller had such a ht of
property in them as was subject to execution. Helmsv. Dumars, 3 Cal.

2. That Helm retained no efective lien u n the property. There was no
agreement inwriting to that effect; nor di Helm as mortgagee retain possession, but it was under the control and direction of Fuller. The legal consequences of this condition of things cannot be evaded by showing-that-the
property was in the possession of Fuller's hired servant as agent or trustee. Id.

3. Decdnitions of the word "property," etc.—The word “pro "
includes a ju ent. Adams v. Haclcett, 7 Cal. 203; 13 Cal. 15; avis v.
F :‘».‘3°‘' ' iliwtia gh f d

4.“ party’ eexclusiveri to ssessi .e'o' an ' si
of a thing; it is the right and interest whigii a man ninylla.i§ds and c attenlg
to the exclusion of others ; and the word is sumciently com rehensive to include every species of estate, real and personal. McKeon v. isbee, 9 Cal. 142.

5. The term “property in lands " is not condned to title in fee, but is sufdciently comprehensive to include any usufructuai-(y interest, whether it be a
leasehold or mere ri ht of possession. State of Cali ornia v. Moore, 12 Cal.

56. Land embraces titles, legal or equitable, ect or imperfect. Lease
v. Clark, 20 Cal. 388; 12 Cal. 56.

6. What property may be levied on.—P1aintid' was walking along the

street with a bag of gold coin in his hand. Two of defendants, a degiity
sherlf and constable, seized him, and by_force took the be of coin from '

Plaintid’ sues for the seizure and conversion of the coin. efendants gave 

, evidence three judgments and executions, in favor of three of their number,

and against Alfred A.'Green, brother of plaintiff, and offered to prove that
the bag of coin was the property of Alfred, and was seized under these executions and applied to their satisfaction. The Court excluded the proof.
Held, that such exclusion was erroneous ; that plaintiff could claim no exemptiou from the seizure of coin held, as this was, in his hand, as he might, £11;
haps, in reference to money ugion his person. The coin in the hand was, '

a horse held by the bridle, su j
Gwen v. Palmer, 15 Cal. 411.

7. Where A had- a large quantity of flour stored in the warehouse of B, and
sold a portion of it to C, and ave an order for the dour sold on B, who accepted the same, and gave 0 n exchange a receipt for the same, and transferred it on his warehouse books to the account of C, but did not separate
any specide portion from the dour of A as the proegiertz of B, and the whole
was subsequently seized in an action against A: H , t at the sherid‘ was not
liable to C, in the absence of segregation of the floor, but that B was estopped b his receipt from denying his liability. Adams v. G01-ham, 6 Cal. 68.

8. : Whether a chase in action. as a note or judgment and the like,

 or a definite sum without condition, is the subject of levy and sale.
v. Blen, 13 Cal. 15.

ect to seizure on execution against its owner.

9. And if so, then, Whether such levy and sale can be made without
e c

actual ion of ose by the officer ? Id.

10. e interest of a miner in his minin claim is rolperty, andmaybe
taken and sold under execution. McKeon v. isbee, 9 C5. 37.

ll. Funds in the hands of a receiver, in a suit for dissolution, are thereforee subject to attachment at any time before a dual decree of dissolution and
distribution. Adams v. Woods J: Haslcell, T. A. Lynch, Intervenor, 9 Cal. 24.

12. Where the execution debtor owns property jointly with another, a
Iherii, who has such execution, has the ri ht to ‘evy on such pro rty and
take it iii: .1 msgion, for the purpose of su jecting t to sale. Wgfdman v.

18. The interest of one partner in the partnership chattels is the subject of
levy and sale by the sherid, on an execution against one of the partners.

Jones v. Thompson, 12 Cal. 191.
14. Adeedof bargainandsaletoA._,intheusualform,hadthesewordsin

the habendum: “For theuseof a Chinesechurch or place of r ' °ous worship and moral instruction, under his direction and in conformity o the rules
of the See Yup Company." Held, that the legal title is in A., and that the
deed does not raise any use or trust in favor of the grantor of the See Yup
Company; that the com y has no uitable title or interest in the pope:-ty
by force of the deed. ldridgc v. See up 00., 17 Cal. 44.

p 15. The fact that an individual creditor obtains judgment, issues execution,
and levies on him property, {ms him no right to the property as against dun
creditors, who have not yet 0 tained ju ent. Id.

16. But the sherid can only seize and sell the interest and right of the judgment partner therein, subject to the prior rights and liens of the other partners and the joint creditors therein. Jones v. Thompson, 12 Cal. 191.

17. The interest of one artner in the partnership chattels is the subject of
levy and sale by the sheri on an execution against one of the partners. Id.

18. Where a parent executes to his infant son a conveyance of property in
consideration of services performed, it must be considered as a v0 untary
conveyance without legal consideration, as he is not legiill bound to pa for
his son's services. Such a deed is thereforee void against e creditors the
parent, dmade when hisHremainii:Jg ropgrty is insumcient to pay his debts.
Suiartz, ministrator, v. aslett, 8 ‘ 1 .

19. Real estate of a ju ent debtor situated in the county where the judgment before a Justice of t e Peace was rendered ma be sold on execution
u n the judgment, whether a transcript of the ju gment be filed in the
(1)9 81:1 of the county Recorder for such county or not. .BicIaarstaj' v. Daub,

. 109.

20. Property includes a judgment. Adams v. Hacked, 7 Cal. 203.

21. Where a partnership, in embarrassed circumstances, converts its means,
u n the strength of which it has obtained credit, into real estate, to be
cgmed as a homestead by one of the firm, for the urpose of placing those
means beyond the reach of the creditors, the land is ‘ ble to the execution of
the creditors, notwithstanding the declaration of homestead. Bishop 1. Hubbard, 23 Cal. 514.

22. The interest of a mortgagor in a mining claim is liable to attachment
and sale under execution, and the urchaser acquires the right of ession
as a ‘net the mortgagee until fo osure. Halsey v. Martin, 22 C . 645.

2 . A promissory note is liable to seizure and sale under execution against
the holder and payee. B such a sale, the purchaser takes the note upon the
same terms upon which e would have taken it had it come into his hands
in the ordinatymcourse of business. Davis v. Mitchell, Oct. T. 1867.

24. A t'erry- at, used for the transportation of passengers, teams, etc.,
across a stream, is not exempt from execution because the ferry is on the mail
route, and the boat is used also to conve the United States mail across the
stream. Lathrognv. Middleton, 23 Cal. 2 7.

25. The urc set of real estate at execution sale, both before and after
the period or redemption expires, has an estate in the land purchased which
ma be lev:i£dO<;ili n2rg:l3 sold on an execution running sgainsthis property. Page

26. What property may not be levied on.—The levy upon a sale of a
road by virtue of an execution, gives the purchaser no right or title to the
same for being the proplerty of the public, the defendant in the execution
has no interest therein w ich can be conveyed by the odicer. Wood at al. v.

Truckee Turnpike 00., 24 Cal. 474.
27. The private roperty of an inhabitant of a county is not liable to seizure

and sale on exccut on for the satisfaction of a judgment recovered against the
county. Emeric v. Gilman, 10 Cal. 404.

28. If the sherid‘ levies upon the property of a person not aparty to the
execution, he is responsible in an action at law. Mai-Idey v. Band, 12 Cal.

275.

29. A., being indebted to B., delivered a quantig of lumber as secnri for
payment of the debt, with the understanding that . should proceed an sell
the lumber, and pay his debt out of the proceeds. The lumber was afterwards
levied upon by the defendants under an execution in their favor sganst A., as
his property. Held, that the lumber was not subject to seizure under an execution against A.. without payment in the m-st place of his indebtedness to B.
Bteanstaa v. Sublette, 1 Cal. 123.

30. A. conveyed land to B., and allowed rt of the purchase money to
remain unpaid. B. afterwards sold part of e land to 0.. who had no notice
of A.’s lien as a vendor, and gave a mortgage to B. for part of the purchase
money. A. obtained jumgient against B. for the un ’ purchase money,
and levied upon and sold .’s interest in the land: that the purchaser

at sherifs sale did not ac uire title to the mortgaged debt due from C. to B.

Blzun v. Sharp, 4 Cal. 351.

1. The mere fact that the judgment dehtor—against whom execution had
issned—-was found upon the mining ground of plaintiff, did not justify the
aherii, who had the execution, in going on the ground and digging up the
soil, and taking the gold it contained. Rowe v. Bradley, 12 Cal. 296.

32. After a ‘den and schedule in insolvency are med, the control and
dominion of e insolvent's property are transferred to the Court. And a
creditor cannot, after such illing——certainly not after the order staying proceedi.ngs—seize the pro rty. The order operates b its own force from its
date, andnonoticen be given of it to a sh with a writ against the

insolvent. flhfts v. Manlove, 14 Cal. 47. ,
33. An execution le upon a county's revenues, in the hands of the treasurer, is illegal and voi . Gtlman v. Oontra Costa County, 8 Cal. 52.

34.In suchcasenoousteris tomaintainanaction ofu-espass;
any unlawful entry is sumcient. An 0 car, when he Eats a receiver in poesession of the property of another, against whom he no process, or asserts through himself, or another, an unlawful dominion over such property,

is a trespasser. Rowe v. Bradley 12 Cal. 226.
36. Contingent and complicated contracts cannot be levied u on and sold without being in the possession of the officer at the sale, to be e bited to the bystanders and and ed to the purchaser, unless a full and accurate description of the particu ar interest and chose in action. with all its conditions and
covenants, and a full explanation of the facts determining the value of the
shire. be given by the levy and announced at the sale. Crandall v. Blm, 13

a . 15.

36. Query: Whether a chose in action, as a note or judgment, and the like,
calling for a dednite sum without condition, is the subject of levy any sale? Id.

37. And if so, then : Whether such levy and sale can he made without
actual possession of e c ose by the oillcert Id. See Davis v. Mitchell, Oct.

'1'. 1867.
38. A ferry license, being a franchise, is not the subject of levy and sale under

execution Thomas v. Armstrong, 7 Cal. 286; 24 CaL 474.
39.  in action are such property as may be levied upon, on execution.
Adams v. aclcett, 7 Cal. 187.

40. The sherin‘ ma , on the request of the defendant in execution, properly
levy on real estate, ough there be personal property present amply sumcient
to satisfy the execution. Smith v. Randall, 6 Cal. 47.

41. A sheriff 13811110.’. levy upon money|in his own hands belonging to the jud ment debtor, when he has received the money on an execution in favor of t

debtor. Olymer v. Willis, 3 Cal. 363.

42. Propert in the custody of the law is not liable to seizure, without an
aergfrom e Court having charge thereof. County of Yuba v. Adams, 7

43. Where money has been placed on general deposit in a bank, and negotiable certilicates of deposit have been issued to the depositor for the amount, there
is nothing left in the cssession of the bankers belonging to the depositor upon
which an attachment ued a this property can fasten. The bankers, by
their certificates, become lia le, not to refund to the depositor the specillo

mono deposited, but to pay its amount to the holder of the certillcates, whoever he may be, on their presentation. Hcllillan v. Richards, 9 Cal. 355.

44. Where A. commences a suit against B. to recover possession of personal

roperty, and, before the suit is commenced, B.has sold the property-to 0., if

‘ . recovers judgment the property cannot be taken from 0., under-an execuml isgued on the judgment for its delivery. Peteree v. Bugbeyet a1., 94

45. How levy
manual delivery must be made by takin
allowed to remain in the hands ol the de tor, the le cannot operate so as to
defeat subsequent executions. Dutertre v. Driard, 7 Cal. 549.

46. A levy may be as against thedefendant in the writ. and not good
as to third persons. e conduct of the defendant may make the levy good,
by way of waiver, or eatop or agreement. Thfts v. Manlooe, 14 Cal. 47.

47. As to third persons, ere can be no levy when the officer does not 
the subject of the lev ; as, where he stands at the door of a store which is
locked, and keeps 0 rs out. The levy dates from the time he gets into the
store and takes possession. Id.‘

48. When execution operates, or not. as a lien.—Service of a copy of
execution and notice of garnishment upon a ‘third party constitutes no lien on
proggrty of the debtor in his hands capable of manual delivery. Johnson v.
Gar m, 6 Cal. 195.

49. Under our statute an execution afects property only from the time d
the levy. Id.

50. Satisfaction of executIon.—A shes-if, -under his eneral powers, cannot take anything but legal currency in satisfaction an execution; and
when he takes a note, indorses it on the, execution, and returns it sadshed.
the return is not conclusive. and perhaps not prime fact’: evidence of satisfao
tliiiiatlinlseiii it shows some authority for receiving the note. Mitchell v. Each‘,

51. A le under execution, on sumcient pro y to satisf it, is a satisfaction of e judgment. People v. Chisholm, 8 29; 32 C . 131.

52. Sheriff, his powers and liabilit:les.—A deputy sherid‘ who seizes property unvler an attachment, is not authorized, b virtue of his office, to bind
the sheriff by contract for the payment of a eeper to take charge of the
p(roperty so attached. Sf) ial authority for» this purpose must be shown.

rum v. King, 12 Cal. 4 '3. See further, § 220, post. If the officer. byhii
misconduct, induced a sale of the property for less than it would otherwise
have brought, the remedy must be an action for damages resulting from his
acts, and not "an action to recover the property or its value. Foster v. Coronal,

Oct. T. 18u7.

53. 2Dama.ges.—The rule giving vindictive or exem lary
of malicious trespass, applies aswell to officers of theiaw, acting
of process, as to private persons. N tghti v. Scanncll, 18 Cal. 315.

54. In such a suit-—the pro’perty seized .ing a merchant's stock in tradeevidence of the retail value 0 the goods is inadmissible as a basis for damage. The object of such evidence is to estimate the pronto plaintiff mfg

ve made by a sale of the goods; and this would be more conjecture.
value of the goods was what it would cost in the market to replace them. Id.

55. In suit against a sherif and theplaintifff in a judgment, for a
seizure of property on an execution u n such judgment, the sherin’, who
acted without improper motives, cannot made liable in vindictive or exemglary damages on account of the malicious motives of the plaintifff in the writ.

he motives of laintih‘ cannot be given in evidence in‘ aggravation of damsges against the s errim Id.

56. Attachment in suite! B.d:‘0o. v. V., 1'. cl: L.,asnrm of V. &Oo., undc
which defendant. as shsrif, seized plaintiffs stock in trade, chiming that In.
was partner of plaintifff: Held, that in action by plaintiff against shes-if for
damages, proof of in‘ury to plaintifff's business as a merchant was 
ble as a criterion of Dwter v. Pauglz, 18 Cal. 372.

§218. When property is claimed by a third party, how the
right of property‘ to be tried.

If the property levied on be claimed by a third person as
his property, the Sheriif shall summon from his county six
persons qualified as jurors between the parties, to try the
validity of the claim. He shall also give notice of the claim
and of the time of trial to the plaintifff, _who may appear and
contest the claim before the jury. The jury and the witnesses shall be' sworn by the Sheriff, and if their verdict be
in favor of the claimant, the Sheri&' may relinquish the levy,
unless the judgment creditor give him a sufficient indemnity
for proceeding thereon. The fees of the jury, the Sheriff,
and the witnesses, shall be paid by the claimant, if the ver.
dict be against him; otherwise by the plaintifff. On the
trial the defendant and the claimant may be examined by
the plaintifff as witnesses.

A licable to Justices’ Courts.

8 and State officers not required to give an undertaking. See ante, § 76,
note. '

l. Suits by claimants.-—P., in possession of a vessel, appoints a master.
The laintift‘, who sets up a claim to the vessel, entered into a charter party
with$., and by it acknowledges him to be owner, and H., the master, appointed by P., to be master of the vessel. After the charter party, the
declared owner of the vessel became the debtor of the master, who attached
the vessel for his debt. The plaintifff brought this action against the sherif
to recover the vessel under the attachment: Held, that where one ermits
another to deal with his property as if it belonged to the latter, andby dec m others to be misled, such declarations must be considered as

to every one in particular who may give credit upon the strength of

t(l}1‘Lexn,30s;nd the party making these must be concluded. Hosller v. Bays, 3

2. An officer attaching goods under civil process is entitled to notice of the
claim of a third arty to the goods, and a demand for them. or he is not liable in
damages to sue pargor such seizure and detention. Taylor v. Seymour, 6
COL 512 ; Daumiel v. ham, Id. 43; K v. Soamell, 12 Cal. 73.

3. The owner of property attached or levied upon as the property of another.
is not conclusively estopped from showing title in himself, because he has given
an accountable receipt for its delive to the olilcer, although the receipt admits

that the property is attached or levie upon as the property of the debtor, if he
makes known to the otllcer his claim at or before the time the receipt is given.
But if he fails to make his claim known, and thus influences the conduct of the
odieer, he is esto ped -from afterwards asserting it—provided the facts and ciregdmsgapaices rela ng to his claim were then known to him. Bleven v. Freer, 10

4. In a suit against the sherin’ for not levying the execution, if the sheriff prove
a trial by j and verdict for claimant, the plaintiff must show that he rendered the bon of indemnity to the sheriff required by law. Strong v. Patterson, 6 Cal. 156.

5. If several creditors levy, and those prior fail to indemnify the sheriff, he
should relinquish the levy of such, and proceed only for the benefit of those who
ind and incur the responsibility. Davidson v. Dallas, 8 Cal. 227.

6. A erit is not protected in the sale of personal property by the verdict of

a jury on the trial of the right of pro erty, under the provisions of section two
hundred and eighteen of the Code. he proceedin s before a sherlH, in such a
trial, are not judicial. Perkins v. Tiiornburgh, 10 l. 189.

7. To estop a party from claiming gods as against the creditor of a third
party, it must a pear that he stated to creditor himself that he had sold the
article to the th (1 party, and that the creditor parted with some right or advantage on the faith of the information. Goodale v. Scamiell, 8 Cal. 27.

8. An agreement to indemnify a sherif for seizing ‘property under execution
is vltslid, if the ‘artiss are in good faith seeking to en orce a legal right. Stark
v. , 18 a . 622.

9. W ere the goods of a third party are mixed with the property, or in the
apparent possession of the judgment debtor, the sheriff is not 1 able for lev °
on them as the property of the debtor, unless there has been notice and deman
of the goods by the owner, and a delay or refusal to deliver. Dawuiel v. Gorham, 6 Cal. 43.

10. Where no such notice or demand was proved, it was error to cha the
ury “ that the sherin‘ was a trespasser, and that they were to had the v ue of
he goods." Id.

11. In an action against a sherid‘ for seizure and conversion of the plainti1i"s roperty taken under process against a third person, a demand upon the
date t rior totheb° ' ofthe suitisnot necessarytoareeovery.
The sherif ving misapplie his process, and whether by mistake or by design
will make no difference, stands in the position of every other trespasser, and
is liable to an action the instant the trespass is committed. The circumstance
that the property was in the possession of the execution debtor at the date of
the seizure amounts to nothing, except upon roof of fraud or commixturs.
Theruleof theeommonlawis correctlysta in Ledleyv.Hays, 1 CaL 160,
and the correctness of that decision is impliedly recognized in Daumiel v.
Gorham, 6 Cal. 44. The statement of facts in Taylor v. eymour, 6 Cal. 512,

S
isimperfect; butif thatcase is to be understood as la 'ng down a different
rule, then we refer to follow Ledley v. Hays, 1 Cal. 1 .

Boutware v. Craddock, 30 Cal. .

12. Where property is levied on by a constable or sheriff virtue of an
attachment or execution, as the property of the defendant in e suit, and is
claimed byathird arty, and a jug is called to trythe right ofprcperty
undertheelaim, an the verdictof e  theclaimant, thisverdict is no protection to the officer in a suit brought against him by the defendants, nor is it admissible in evidence as a defense. Sheldon v. Loomis, 98
Cal. 122. See ante, §39, note No. 29.

§ 219. ‘ What property shall be exempt from execution.

The following property shall be exempt from execution,
except as herein otherwise specially provided:

First-—Chairs, tables, desks, and books, to the value of one
hundred dollars, belonging to the judgment debtor.

Second—Necessary household, table, and kitchen furniture
belonging to the judgment debtor, including stoves, stovepipe, and stove furniture, wearing apparel, beds, bedding.
and bedsteads, and provisions actually provided for individual
or family use suiiicient for one month.

Third-—The farming utensils or implements of husbandry
of the judgment debtor; also, two oxen, or two horses, or two
mules, and their harness, four cows, one cart or wagon, and
food for such oxen, horses, cows, or mules, for one month;

.. nine’ :1 ends‘: 4 I 'Il:|'I" "I "
mcivtlcasssln the Courts of Justice of this State," passed April

3211. I151. The People of the Btste of Callfomia, represented in
tents and Assembly, do enact as follows:

Sscrio.-I l.——Section two hundred and nineteen of said Act
is hereby amended so as to read as follows:

§8'l9.—The following property shall be exempt from execution, except as herein otherwise specially provided :
Fir-:t——Chairs, tables, desks. and books, to the value of
late hundred dollars, belonging to the judgment debtor.
S¢eond—Necessary household, table, and kitchen fumimre belonging to the judgment debtor, including stoves,
stove-pipe, and stove furniture, wearing apparel. beds, bedding,snd bedsteads, and provisions actually provided for
individual or family use snlllcient for one month.
'l‘Iu'rd—'l‘he farming utensils or implements of husbandry
of the judgment debtor ; also, two oxen, or two horses, or
two mules. and their harness, four cows with their sucking’
mhrrs. one cart or wagon, and food for such oxen, horses,
cows, or mules, for one month ; also, all seed grain or vegetables actually provided, reserved, or on hand for the purpnseof planting or sowing at any time within the ensuing
nix months. not exceeding in value the sum of two hundred

..£..——--—--k....:.. .. _—a£.....-)

use of which a cartuian, dmgmuu, h-em-kmun. huckster. peddler, lmckman, teainster, or other laborer. habitually earns
his living; and one horse, with vehicle and harness or other

equipments used by a physician, surgeon, or minister of the
gospel, in making his professional visits: with food l'or such
oxen. horses. or mule:-, for time month.

Setenth-All lire-engines. hooks and ladders. with the
rtrts. trucks. and carriages, hose, buckets. implements. and
apparatus thereto appertaining. and all furniture and um
forms of any fire company or department organized under
any law of this State.

Ei;,n‘zth—All urms, uuit‘orm.-a. mid in-.-nun-euients, required
by law to be kept by any petmon.

.\'t'nfJt—All Court.-houses, Jails, publiv offices and buildings. lots, grounds. and personal property, the lixtures. furniture. books. papers, und appurtenances belonging ‘gird
pertaining to the (‘tum-liousr. Jail. and publiv otlic-es. lulonging to any county of this State: and all 1-elneterim-.
Public squares. parks, and places, plllillv lnuildirigs, town
halls, markets, bnidings for the use of tire departments and
military organizations. and the lots and grounds thereto he
longing and appertaining, owned or held by any town or
mcofporated city, or dedicated by suvll town or city to
health. ornament. or public use. or for the use of any tire or
military company organized under the laws of this State:
but no article or species of proper-t_v mentioned in this 8t‘,t'—
lion shall be exempt from execution lb‘8llt'-‘(l upon ujud_unient
rerovered for its price, or upon it mortguga» than-on.

'1'mII¢—'l‘lie earnings of the judgment debtor for his pursonsl ser\‘lrt~s rendered at any time within thirty days next
l""=C'='llHL' the levy of (‘X¢‘t'|tll0lI or levy of uttuclnnent.
when it nhull be ‘inside to appear b3 the ch-btor's allidavii. or
otln-rwise, that such mu‘uim_rs are lle('('!I52ll'_\' for the use of
his fmuily residing in this State. stIp[mt'le1l \\'lml|_\' or in put’!
"3' lIlf~ labor.

cl nor 4/ -- '5 ' . ‘i IN:-‘l‘(l.\‘tllt\'.~‘.

also, all seed grain or vegetables actually provided, reserved,

or on hand for the purpose of planting or sowing at any time
within the ensuing six months, not exceeding in value the
sum of two hundred dollars.

Faurth—Tools or implements of a mechanic or artisan
necessary to carry on his trade, the instruments and chest of
a Surgeon, Physician, Surveyor, and Dentist, necessary to the
exercises of their profession, with their scientific and professional libraries ; the law libraries of Attorneys and Counsel‘ors, and the libraries of Ministers of the Gospel.
F{flh—The cabin or dwelling of a miner, not exceeding in
i value the sum of five hundred dollars ; also, his sluices, pipes,
hose, Windlass, derrick, cars, pumps, tools, implements, and
appliances necessary for carrying on any kind of mining operations, not exceeding in value the aggregate sum of five
hundred dollars; and two horses, mules, or oxen, with their
harness, and food for such horses, mules, ‘or oxen, for one
month, when necessary to be used for any whim, Windlass,
derrick, car, pump, or hoisting gear.

Si.'z:th-—Two oxen, two horses, or two mules, and their harness,
and one cart or wagon, by the use of which a cartman, huckstar, peddler, teamster, or other laborer habitually earns his
living; and one horse, with vehicle and harness or other
equipments, used by a Physician, or Surgeon, or Minister of
the Gospel in making his professional visits, with food for
such oxen, horses, or mules, for one month.

Seventh—All fire engines, hooks and ladders, with the carts,
trucks, and carriages, hose, buckets, implements, and apparatus thereto appertaining, and all furniture and uniforms of
any fire company or department organized under any law of
this State.

EightIz~—A11 arms, uniforms, and accoutrements, required by _
law to be kept by any person.

M'nth—All Court-houses, Jails, public offices, and buildings,
lots, grounds, and personal property, the fixtures, furniture,
books, papers, and appurtenances, belonging and .pertaining
to the Court-house, Jail, and public offices belonging to any
county of this State, and all cemeteries, public squares, parks
and places, public buildings, town halls, markets, buildings0

for the use of the fire departments and military organizations,
and the lots and grounds thereto belonging and appertaining,
owned or held by any town or incorporated city, or dedicated
by such town or city to health, ornament, or public use, or
for the use of any fire or military company organized under
the laws of this State; but no article or species of property
mentioned in this section shall be exempt from execution
issued upon a judgment recovered for its price or upon a
mortgage thereon. . _

Tenth-—The earnings of the judgment debtor for his personal services rendered at any time within thirty days next
preceding the levy of execution (or levy of attachment),
when it shall be made to appear by the debtor’s aiiidavit or

otherwise, that such earnings are necessary for the use of his
family residing in this State, supported wholly or in part by

his labor.
‘ Amended 1854, 89; 1862, 573; 1864, 523. Applicable to Justices’ Courts.

1 Earnings of the judgment debtor. See further, post, § 243.

2. Sewing machines exempt.—Statutes 1864, 92 : In addition to the prop.
erty now exempted by law from sale or levy on execution, there shall be exempted one sewing machine, of a value not exceeding one hundred dollars, in
actual use by each debtor or the family of the debtor.

3. Life insurance exempt.—Statutes of 1867-8, page 500: Section 1. No
money, benedt, right, privilege or immunity ' or in any manner whatever growing out of any life insurance on the life 0 the debtor, made in any
insurance company incorporated under the laws of this State, shall be an 'ect
to levy under attachment or execution, or under any original mesne or
process whatever against such debtor, or to be taken, sequestered, or reached

y an roceeding supplementary to execution or other like proceeding ;
pvopuizztf however, this exemption shall not extend beyond such monies,
neiits, rights, privileges and immunities as have been or might have been

‘sieculhrread by the payment of an annual premium not exceeding five hundred
o .

4. gzcarchg gfoagcrds, books, maps, etc., exempt.-Statutes 1867-8,
126: . 1. e papers, maps and diagrams of a person engaged in
searching records and making abstracts of titles, used in such business. shall
be exem t from execution in all cases, except upon a judgment recovered for
the pur money thereof or upon a mo e thereon.

Sec. 2. ThisAct shall take edect and be in orce from and after its passage.

6. Lots in cemeteries and pawn in churches exampt.—Statutcs of
1861, 665-566: Section 1. All lots of land owned, used or occupied by any person, or by any person in joint tenancy, or tenancy in common with any person
or persons, in any graveyard or cemetery, or other place, for the sole purpose
of buying the dead, not exceeding one quarter of an acre in size, together with
the r ling or fencing inclosiug the same, and all gravestones, tombstones, monuments and other appropriate improvements thereon erected, are hereby exempted from ie and forced sale, by virtue of any writ, order, judgment or decree, or by any egal process whatever. And in case of religious or benevolent
associations or corporations, the amount of land so exempt for the purposes
aforesaid may extend to not exceeding five acres: provided, that not more than

one lot of land shall be held exempt by such person, or by him in 'oint tenancy
«tenancy in common with any person or persons, or by any sue association
or corporation, in an one cemetery, raveyard or other place; and provided,
further. that the pro ions of this act s all not be deemed to apply to and held
b any person or persons. association or corporation, for the purpose of sale or
ositxon, as burial lots or otherwise.

Sec. 2. All pews in churches and meeting houses used for religious purposes,

owned and claimed by any person, or held agreeably to the rules and regulations of such churches, are hereby exempt from levy and sale on any writ or ,

legal process, or by operation of any law whatever.

6. Homatead. exemption of.—Hittell’s Dig., aragraph 35, 41-60. See, also’
stat 1867-8, page 116. which extends the right to omesteads held in joint tenancy, tenancy in common, or where the claimant owns only an undivided interat therein; t also applies to all homesteads heretofore recorded.

7. Wagon, haokney coach.-—In the act which exempts certain articles
from execution, the term “ wagon ” is intended to mean a common vehicle for
the rtation of goods, wares and merchandise. Quigley v. Gorham, 6 Cal.
418. A ey coach used for the conveyance of passengers is a diferent
arn:cle, and does not come within the equity or ‘literal meaning of the act.

Qugley v. Gorltam, 5 Cal. 413.

8. '1‘eam.—Where two mules are claimed as exempt from forced sale on
execution, it must be shown that the party claiming the mules habitually
earned his living by the use of the animals in question, or that he is one of
the persons mentioned in the statute. Calhoun v. Knight, 10 Cal. 393.

9. Horses.-An execution 'debtor, who has more horses than the number
exempt by law, may elect which he claims as exempt, but such election must
be made and the officers notitled thereof either at the time of the levy, or
within a reasonable time thereafter, or the right to elect will be deemed
 Bailand v. 0’Nea1, 22 Cal. 504. Ami-med in Gavitt v. Daub, 23

. 7 .

10. Where two or several horses, owned by an execution debtor, were levied
upon and no notice of claim of exemption was given to the officer until the
day of sale, which was four months afrerthe levy; Held, that the right of eleclion had been lost by the unreasonable delay in exercising it; and that the
cases was justified in selling the propert . Borland v. 0 Neal, 22 Cal. 604.

ii. In determinin whether notice of cla m of exemption of roperty levied
upon was given b debtor within a reasonable time, the fact t the plaintifff
had at the time o the levy other property of a similar character out of which
the debt might have been made, is proper matter of proof: Id.

12. The exemption of property from sale on execution is a personal right
which the debtor may waive or claim at his election. Id.

13. Household furnit:ure.——Where certain household thrniture is claimed as
exempt from execution, the fact that the number of beds claimed--six in all—is
greater than is required for the immediate and constant use of the family, is no
objection. Such a construction of the statute would be too narrow. Hastodl v.
Persons, 15 Cal. 266.

§ 220. Writ, how executed.

The Sheriil‘ shall execute the writ against the property of
the judgment debtor, by levying on a suilicient amount of
property, if there be sufficient; collecting or selling the
things in action, and selling the other property, and paying
to the plaintifff or his attorney so much of the proceeds as
will satisfy the judgment, or depositing the amount with the
Clerk of the Court; any excess in the proceeds over the

judgment an the. Sheri&"s fees shall be returned to the judgment debtor. When there is more property of the judgment
debtor than is suliicient to satisfy the judgment and the
Sheril.’t"s fees, within the view of the Sheriti‘, he shall levy only
on such part of the property as the judgment debtor may
indicate: provided, that the judgment debtor be present at»
and indicate at the time of the levy, such part; and provided,
that the property indicated he amply sufiicient to satisfy

such judgment and fees.

Applicable to Justices’ Courts. “ Preferred claims," writ, how executed.
Bee ante, 9 120, note(a).

1. Th general statute dennes the duties of the sberii!‘ in respect to nnal
t declares, “ that the sherid‘ shall execute the writ (of jia-i faeias)

B; levying, etc., and_ paying to the plaintid or his attorney so much of the

proceeds as will satisfy the judgment, etc., and it‘ there be any excess, he
shall return the same to the judgment debtor.” These acts are to be construed in part materia. Wilson v. Broder, 10 Cal. 486.

2. Notice of motion to set aside an execution and a lev made thereunder
willnot operate as a stay of proceedin Byran v. Berry, Cal. 130.

3. Where a sheriff‘ or constable se zes the prope of one man under an
execution against another, he is a trespasser, and lia le on his omcial bond.
Van Pelt v. Littler, 14 Cal. 194; 30 Cal. 190; 12 Cal. 277.

4. Where an execution on a judgment for the recovery of money is stayed
by the undertaking on appeal required b statute for that purpose, a sale may
be made on the execution; and the rig ts of urchasers are in no respect
a  by the subsequent reversal of the judgment. Fbrmer v. Rogers, 10

6. This section was evidently enacted for the benefit of the debtor. S-mith
v. Randall, 6 Cal. 47.

6. Where the execution debtor owns property jointly with another, a sherif,
yho has such execution, has the right to evy on such pro y, and take it
into possession for the urpose of subjecti it to sale. atdman v. Brodsr,
10 Cal. 378; Bemal v. ovious, 17 Cal. 542; 2 Cal. 198.

7. If the master of a vessel be a part owner, his interest in the vessel ma
be levied on and sold. but his agency as master will in no wise be akeotei
Loringv. Illstey, 1 Cal. 31.

8. Contingent and complicated contracts cannot be levied upon and sold
without being in the possession of the officer at the sale, to be exhibited to
the bystanders and assigned to the purchaser, unless a full and accurate
description of the icular interest and chase in action, with all its conditions
and covenants, an a full explanation of the facts determining the value of
ilgeccgioslei be given by the levy, and announced at the sale. Crandalt v. Blair,

9. The assent of an ordinary agent, who had neral charge of his rincipal’s afairs during his temporary absence, not justify the sh ' who

olds an execution against a third person in levying upon props in the
possession of the principal in her absence. Fitch v. Broclcman, C 578.

10. ggheredaiil order of Court edlirected the] sherifthto dpegrtainth 
prope ,an t e to rtyprov not tobeo to e een tin e
the sherif was he (1 ligble to the owner. Rhodlg v. Patterson, 3 Cal. 470.

11. Under our statute an execution afects property only from the time of
the levy; and service of a copy of an execution constitutes no lien on property capable of manual delivery. Johnson v. Goo-ham, 6 Cal. 196; Dutertrc v.
Dnard, 7 Id. 551.

12. The mere fact that the judgment debtor (against whom execution had

issued) was found upon the mining ground of plaintiff, did not justify the

shaif who had the execution ingoing on the ground and 'gging up the oils
and taking the old it contained. Rowe 1'. Bradley, 12 230.

13. The fact at an individual creditor obtains 'udgment, issues execution,
and levies on firm property, 'ves him no right to e property as against nrm
creditors who have not yeto tained judgment. Conroy v. Woods, 13 Cal. 631.

_14. The remedy, by motion, a ‘net a sherif and his sureties, to compel
him  pa over money coll on execution, was only given for cases of
mtentio delinquency on the part of the sherif, as a punishment for his
willful or corrupt neglect of duty, and was not designed to embrace a case in
which he declined to pay over monies collected under circumstances. of a

bona fide well grounded doubt of the authori of the to demand it.
Wilson v. Broder, 10 Cal. 486. W party

15. While the interest of the pledgor may be reached under an execution,
it _canonl(v be done by servin a garnishment on the ledgee, and not by a
seizure o the pl . Treagwell v. Davis, April T. 1868. _

_l6. A levy made y a constable on goods which he does not see or have in
his possession is void. Herron v. Hughes et a1., 25 Cal. 563.

17. When exemption may be o1aimed.—Where a party was absent in
Ban Francisco at the time such furniture was sold on execution, on account of
sickness in his famil , it is sumcient excuse for not claiming the exam tion
at the time, the defen t (plaintid in execution) being aware of such c aim,
it having been made on a revious seizure. Hastoell v. Parsons, 15 Cal. 266.

18. Bee further ante, Q 21$, note No. 10.

§ 221. ‘Notice of sale under execution, how given.

Before the sale of property on execution, notice thereof
shall be given as follows:

First-—In case of perishable property, by posting written:
notice of the time and place of sale in three public places of
the township or city where the sale is to take place. for such

’a time as may be reasonable, considering the character and

condition of the property.

Second—In case of other personal property, by posting a
similar notice in three public places in the township or city
where the sale is to take place, not less than live nor more
than ten days successively.

Third—In case of real property, by posting a similar notice.
particularly describing the property, for twenty days successively, in three public places of the township or city where
the property is situated, and also when the property is to be
sold, and publishing a copy thereof once a week for the same
period in some newspaper published in the county, if there
be one.

Fourth-—When the judgment under which the property is
to be sold is made payable in a specified kind of money or
currency, the several notices required by this section shall
state the kind of money or currency in which bids may be

made at such sale, which shall be the same as that specified
in the judgment.

8'A_1ge;ded 1863, 689. Applicable to Justices’ Courts. Bane:-oft's Forms,
11 1 .

1. Although the oliicer neglects to give the notice, the sale shall not be void.

Bmithv. Randall, 6Cal.47; Harveyv.Frislc,8Id. 93.

§ 222. Selling without notice, what penalty attached.

An othcer selling without the notice prescribed by the last
section, shall forfeit live hundred dollars to the aggrieved
party, in addition to his actual damages; and a person will.
fully taking down or defacing the notice posted, if done before
the sale or the satisfaction of the judgment (if the judgment

be satisfied before sale), shall forfeit five hundred dollars.

Appgicable to Justices’ Courts. '

l. the sheriff, before sale of real estate under execution, neglects to give

the proper notice, the statute gives an adequate remedy against the officer.

ghiare Tis not sutllcient cause to set aside or avoid the sale. Smith v. Randall, 6
a . 4 .

2. An action cannot be maintained b the defendant in an execution to wecover of the officer the penalty prescr bed by section 222 of the Practice Act
for selling without proper notice, unless by a sale so made the complainant has
been deprived of his property. If the attempted sale is a nullity, and asses

no title, no injury has been sustained, and no right of action for the to eiture
accrues. Askew v. Ebberts, 22 Cal. 263.

3. No right of property vests in the purchaser at an execution sale until he
« pays the purchase mone , and until this is done, the sale is not so far perfected as to constitute t e foundation of an action to enforce a forfeiture for
sellin without the prescribed notice. Id.

4. u an action to enforce a penalty or‘ forfeiture imposed by statute, the
claim is to be strictly construed. Id.

§ 223. Sales, how conducted; neither the ojicer conducting it,
nor his deputy to be a purchaser; real and personal property,
how sold; judgment debtor, if present, may direct order of sale,
and the ojicer shall follow his directions.

All sales of property under execution shall be made at
auction to the highest bidder, and shall be made between the
hours of nine in the morning and five in the afternoon ; after
sudicient property has been sold to satisfy the execution, no
more shall be sold. Neither the officer holding the execution, nor his deputy, shall become a purchaser, or be interested in any purchase at such sale. When the sale is of persmal property, capable of manual delivery, it shall be within
view of those who attend the sale, and be sold in such parcels as are likely to bring the highest price; and when the
sale is of real property, and consisting of several known lots

‘stayed by the undertaking on ap

or parcels, they shall be sold ‘separately; or when a portion
of such real property is claimed by a third person, and he
requires it to be sold separately, such portion shall be thus

sold. The judgment debtor, if present at the sale, may also
direct the order in which property, real‘ or personal, shall be
sold, when such property consists of several known lots or
parcels, or of articles which can be sold to advantage separately; and the Sheriff shall be bound to follow such directions.

Applicable to Justices’ Courts.

1. The regularity of a sheriff's sale cannot be impeached by a stranger, or
in a collateral proceeding. Kebey v. Dunlap, 7 Cal. 160.

2. Where an execution on a ju ent for the recov of money is not

' r uired statute or that purpose, a

sale may be made on the execution, an the ts of purchasers are in no

nasal ggsected by the subsequent reversal of the Judgment. Farmer v. Rogers,
1 .

3 By the statute of 1860, personal protgerty levied on by the sheriff must
be actually seized and sold in presence of purchaser. While a lien attaches
torealestate upontheiilingof the transcript, andthe same isto besoldin
front of the Court-house door, and all leasehold estates of more than one year
aretobeso disposedof. Smithy. Horse, 2 Cal. 524.

4. A debtor in default has no vested right to have his property sold in a
pardcular way; and third persons, not parties to the contract, have no vested

-right to purchase the property of a common debtor sold at the instance of

another creditor. Zuolumne Redemption 00. v. Sedgwiclc, 15 Cal. 515.

5. The rules of equi proceeding: regire, in such cases, not on] that the
property should be sol in parcels, ut property included in_ a mortgage should be exhausted before recourse is had to a second, in order that
t1.lieCa;ILi<>li;ut of redemption may be accurately ascertained. Raim v. Reynolds,

6.  the land sold under execution consisted of arate but ' ining
tracts, but the sheriff and the purchaser were ' orantwa’ the B‘I1b3l'dVJ1'o8l0Il8,
and the defendant failed to inform the sherin‘ o the fact, or to direct a sale

6 CS: 4H7eld, that the sale of the land, in gross, was valid. Smith v. Run7.’ Inadequacy of price, though a fact admissible in evidence to establish
frssudiiailiever of itself ‘tisumcientt tofannul pi sale igndei-lexeautteion.  of
. einmass,unera'wrio execu on,o re es ,co
several known and distinct parcels, at a price greatly below the actual value
3! 1:3): pro . cannot be sustaingeldc 56 t the o jection of the judgment
ea. siieh sales are not hbsolutels’ void,.but are voidable, and will be_set aside
upon reasonable and roper app ‘cation, when there is reasonable und for
lbxlief that ‘tangy me ess beoraedézgl to the  or debtor than t ey would
been ' t ii ursu . .
, lg. Under anaexeceiitiirdnmagainst thg city and county of San Francisco, the
sherif sold a tract of land belo to the corporation, one mile in length
and a half a mile in width, whi had long previous to the sale been laid out
‘by the city autlaoritiekseisito bloctgs agciiéreets 0ffdt%8ign.1;ted dimeiifsitcilns 
boundari , ma o ci ° 0 e
lay underesth:‘tidfan:vraters‘h‘i‘°t!lie lie; of San Ihanciscg, aull’t e dry land was
iP......*°"°°*i:;.3.”.-°..,“*;'. ‘°‘° ms  "i.’2°’§£ “:.:;:i‘.:‘.s are?’ air
‘ p _ I ' _ I
that upon application by the jii ent debtor. the sale was properly set aside,
ouacoounto themannerinw chithadbeen made. Id.

11. When the application to set aside a voidable sale, under execution,
should be made by motion, and when by bill in equity. discussed. Id.
12. The term “appurteiiance," used in the return of a levy by a aherii, is
‘°°,..um‘- :;8“° sf‘ ‘:*°:“;“°- *°.:°"“...P..'°,‘*$‘‘ “; *“ *-'°°m......'*.*:' r:“:.r.‘
no asesuecoe.o .ereore,is e .
onroe v. Thomas, 5JCa1. 470. V y
13. If the sherid’, before a sale of real estate under execution, neglects to
Eve the proper notice, the statute give an adequate remedy ' tthe omeer,
6 813 1: pct sumcient cause to set aside or avoid the sale. Emit}: v. Randall,
14. A Court of equity will not set aside a sheri3"s sale and a deed executed
under it in a collateral action commenced for that by reason of irregularities in the conduct of the cmcer in making e evy and sale. Boles v.
Johnston, 23 Cal. 226.
15. If parties have any remedy under such circumstances, it is by motion
mperlilmade in the Court where judgment was rendered to set aside the

§ 224. If purchaser refuses to pay purchase money, what proceedings.

If a purchaser refuse to pay the amount bid by him fol’
property struck 05 to him at a sale under execution, the
officer may again sell the property at any time to the highest
bidder, and if any loss be occasioned thereby, the officer may
recover the amount of such loss, with costs, by motion upon

previous notice of five days before any Court, or before any

Justice of the Peace, if the same shall not exceed his Jllrl8diction.

Applicable to J ustices' Courts.

1. urchaser at a sherif ’s sale acquires no right whatever against the
sheriff or pro rty sold, unless at the time of the sale he ays down in cash
the whole of e purchase money. The People v. Hays, 5 Cpal. 66; Williams v.
Smith, 6 Cal. 91; Harvey v. Fisk, 9 Cal. 93.

2. In an action against a purchase: at sheriR"s sale for not  the
amount of his bid, it cannot be set up in defense that no sulllcient notice of
the sale was given. If such be the fact, the recourse of the purchaser is
against the sherif. Harvey v. Fish, 9 Cal. 93.

3. The nature and extent of the relief in such case are matters resting very
much in the sound discretion of the Court. As a general rule, the purchaser
will be released and a resale ordered, or such new or additional proceedings
directed as may obviate the objections arising from those originally taken,
when the consequences of the mistake are such that it would be inequitable,
either to the urchaser or to the parties, to allow the sale to stand. But when
relief is soug t in one action from a purchase made upon a mistake of law as
to the efect of a decree rendered in another action, it seems that the ordinary
rules as to mistakes of law should apply; and from such, Courts of equity
seldom relieve. Goodenow v. Ewer, 16 Cal. 461.

4. Held, also, that laintiilh cannot be reimbursed in the amount bid, even
tiicugh they acted un er a mistake as to the effect of the decree and sale thereunder ; that their mistake was one of law, against which Courts of uity seldom
relieve in an inde ndent action-—the weight of authority in the nited States
being not to re eve, unless the mistake be accompanied with special circumsttpnces, such as misrepresentation, undue iniluence, or misplaced conlidence.
5. Where a party purchased real estate at an execution sale, upon the faith
of the representations of the judgment creditor that his judgment was the tint

on the property, when in fact there were rior encumbrances on it of more than
its value: Held, that the purchaser shou d be relieved, and the judgment creditor should be estopped from claiming an advantage resulting from his own
misre resentations. Webster v. Haworth, 8 Cal. 21.

6. e doctrine of caveat emptor applies only to sales made upon valid judgments, and is usually invoked with reference to sales upon execution issued
against the general property of a judgment debtor. In these latter cases, a defect of the title is no ground for interference with the sale, or a refusal to pay
the price bid. The purchaser takes upon himself all the risks as to the title,
and bids with full knowledge that in any event he only acquires such interest
as the debtor possessed at the date of the levy, or the lieu of the judgment, and
that he may possibly acquire nothing. Boggs v. Hargrave, 16 Cal. 559.

7. A somewhat different rule prevails in cases where particular proper is
the subject of sale by a specific adjudication, as where the interests of A., n a
certain tract, is decreed to be sold. To the validity of a decree of this character the presence of A. is essential; and when present, the decree binds him, and
is etfectual, by the sale it orders, to transfer his estate. A valid decree in a
mortgage case operates upon such interest as the mortgagor possessed in the
property at the execution of the mortgage. The interest may not constitute a
valid title-it may not, in fact, be of any value. and the purchaser takes that
risk. To that extent the doctrine of caveat emptor applies even in those cases,
and in all cases of adjudication npon specific interests, but no further. The
interest specifically subject to sale. whatever it may be worth, a purchaser is
iigtitled to receive; it is for that interest he makes his bid and pays his money.

8. A mandamus will not lie to compel a sheriff to make a deed of land to a
purchaser at execution sale, who refuses to pay the purchase money, on the
ground that he is entitled to it as oldest judgment and execution creditor, especially when there is an unsettled contest as to the priority of his lien. Williams
7. Smith, 6 Cal. 91. '

‘ 9. It makes no difference whether the misrepresentations were made willmlly or
gnu:-autly, or that the action against the purchaser was brought in the name of

e sherid’. Webster v. Hawortlt, 8 Cal. 21.

10. Ordinarily, the maxim of caveat emptor applies to judicial sales, but it
has many limitations and exceptions. Id.

11. The provisions of law will be enforced, unless fraud is proven between
the officer and second purchaser. Harvey v. Fisk, 9 Cal. 93.

12. In a proceeding by motion under section two hundred and twenty-four
of the Practice Act, to com 1 payment b a delinquent purchaser at judicial
sale, the statement of the eriif upon w ‘ch the motion is based need not
state in terms that “loss was occasioned by a failure to pay the amount birl;”
an averment of the amount of the bid, and a resale at a specified smaller
amount, is sumcient. Johns v. Trick, 22 Cal. 511.

§225. Court of Justice may proceed in a summary manner
against a purchaser refusing to pay; ojicer may refuse such purchaser’s bid after. Such Court of Justice shall proceed in a summary manner
and give judgment, and issue execution therefore forthwith,
but the defendant may claim a jury. And the same proceedings may be had against any subsequent purchaser who

shall refuse to pay, and the oiiicer may, in his discretion,

thereafter reject the bid of any person so refusing.
Applicable to Justices’ Courts.

§226. These two sections not to make Qyicer liable beyond a
certain amount.

The two preceding sections shall not be construed to make
the officer liable for any more than the amount bid by the

second, or subsequent purchaser, and the amount collected

from the purchaser refusing to pay.

A licable to Justices’ Courts.

1. ere a sherif fails to pa over money collected on execution, the action
should be for a false return. et al. v. Buchanan et al., 5 Cal. 53.

3. The statute penalties against sherids, for the non-payment of monies

collected on execution, are only recoverable when the sherim by his return,
admits the collection of the money, but refuses to pay it over. Id.

§ 227. Personal property not capable of manual delivery, how
delivered to purchaser.

When the purchaser of any personal property capable of
manual delivery shall pay the purchase money, the officer
making the sale shall deliver to the purchaser the property,
and if desired shall execute and deliver to him a certihcate

of the sale and payment. Such certificate shall convey to
the purchaser all the right, title and interest which the debtor

had in and to such property on the day the execution was

levied.
Applicable to Justices’ Courts.

§ 228. Personal property not capable of manual delivery, how
sold and delivered.

When the purchaser of any personal property not capable
of manual delivery shall pay the purchase money, the officer
making the sale shall execute and deliver to the purchaser a

certificate of sale and payment. Such certificate shall eonvey to the purchaser all right, title, and interest which the

debtor had in and to such property on the day the excution

was levied.

Apjillilcable to Justices’ Courts. Bancroft's Forms, 218.
1. e purchaser of a judgment on sale under execution and levy takes as
asaignee only, assuming that a judgment is the subject of levy and sale. The

shenE’s sale of a judgment passes no title other than would pass by an assignment by the owner. Fore v. Manlove, 18 Cal. 436.

2. The word “ omeer, ” in the two previous sections, refers to the incumbent
e

at the time of the act of sale; and if be dead, his successor cannot perform
the duty. People v. Boring, 8 Cal. 406.

3. How the act is to be done in such a case, discussed and suggested. Id.
4. A sheriffs bill of sale of personal property sold on execution need not
contain all the formalities of a re lar oertlncate. Lay v. Neville. 25 Cal. 551.
5. When a sheriff’ sells person property on an execution, where he has no

authority to do so. if the execution defendant is present and consents to the

sale being made, the purchaser will acquire a good title as against the defendant in the execution. Id.

§ 229. ‘Real property, when absolute sale or not; in the latter
case, what the certificate must contain.

Upon a sale of real property, the purchaser shall be substituted to and acquire all the right, title, interest and claim of
the judgment debtor thereto; and when the estate is less
than a leasehold of two years’ unexpired term, the sale shall
be absolute. In all other cases, the property shall be subject
to redemption, as provided in this chapter. The officer shall
give to the purchaser a certificate of sale containing:

First—A particular description of the real property sold.

Second—The price bid for each distinct lot or parcel.

Third»-—The whole price paid.

Fourth—When subject to redemption, it shall be so stated.

And when the judgment, under which the sale has been
made, is made payable in a specified kind of money or our‘
rency, the certificate shall also state the kind of money or
currency in which such redemption may be made, which shall
be the same as that speciiied in the judgment. A duplicate

of such certificate shall be filed by the officer in the office of
the Recorder of the county.

‘Amended 1863, 689. Applicable to Justices’ Courts. Bancroft’s Forms, 219.

1. Query: What is the eltect, under our system, of a sale of land under execution to the execution creditor; does it pass any greater title in the premises
than that actually held by the defendant in execution? Eldridge v. See Yup
00., 17 Cal. 44.

2. A description in a sheriffs return of city lots by numbers, referring to
the omcial city map, is suhicient. Welch v. Sullivan, 8 Cal. 165.

3. The decisions as to the estate of the ‘udgment debtor after sale become
authorities for determining the estate 0 the mortgagor after sale under
the decree, and from them it will be found that the estate must remain in the
In r until a consummation of the sale by conveyance, as it does in
the judgment debtor; and that the conveyance, when executed, will take
effect, in the one case, from the date of the mort e, as it doesin the
otgcj £13-2? the time the lien of the judgment attached. clllillan v. Richards,
9 . . '

4. Until a consummation of a sale of real property upon execution is
made by a conveyance from the sheriff, the estate remains in the judgment
debtor. Until then, the purchaser possesses onl a right to an estate
wgléich may afterwards be perfected by conveyance. Cummings v. 00¢, 10 Cal.
5 .

6. The title of a purchaser of real estate at sheriH's sale does not depend
upon the return of the officer to the writ. The purchaser has no control over
the conduct of the otllcer in this r 1:. Cloud v. El Dorado County, 12 Cal.
128; Clarlcv. Lockwood, 21 Cal. .

6. What title execution purchaser acqu1res.—'I‘he purchaser of real

1
V

estate sold on execution, upon the delivery to him of the sherifs certificate
of sale, acquires a ‘es of conditional equitable estate in the land, subject
to be defeated onl a redemption within the time allowed by law, leaving
the legal title wi the right of redemption only in the judgment debtor,
which the sherid‘ may convey to the purchaser by executing‘ a deed to him
amt the expiration of the period allowed for redemption. v. Doc, 31

Cal. 220.
7. If a recorderhas aplace in his office where he keeps sherifscertincates

of sale, and a given certificate is not kept in that _place, but in another and
diderent place. its dlin does not give notice to third persons of its existence
or contents. Page v. era, 31 Cal. 293.

8. The purchaser of land at sheriffs sale does not by his urchase uire
the title to the land. The title passes by the execution an deliv "3? the
sheriff's deed. The purchaser, rior to the execution of the sheri s deed,
holds merely a lien u on the . People v. Mayhem, 26 Cal. 655; [see Baberv. McLe1lan, 30 C . 135.]
9. One who lreceives an assignment ofa sheriff's certitlcate of sale of‘ land

as security against his liability for debts of the judgment debtor, with an
agreement that he will cancel the same when the debts are paid, and his liability
is discharged. ceases to have any interest in the certificate when the debts are
paid, and if he afterwards obtains a sheriff ‘s deed, neither he nor his assignee
with no_tice acquire any title to the land. Baber v. JI{cLel1an, 30 Cal. 135.

10. A duplicate of a sheriff ’s certidcateot‘ sale of land was deposited by the
sheriff with the recorder of the proper ‘county, endorsed. “filed ’ by the latter
officer, recorded as a deed in a book of records of deeds, and regularly indexed
as a deed, and afterwards placed in a file of recorded deeds, but not with a die
of certificates of sales, where it remained in said recorder’s office till the time
of the trial of the case, some ten years afterwards. Held, that notice was imparted to subsequent purchasers by the instrument thus deposited and preserved. Page v. ‘Rogers, 31 Cal. 293.

11. The filing of a sherii‘i"s duplicate certidcate of sale in the onlce of the
county recorder, imparts constructive notice of the estatejacquired under it to
subsequent purchasers and attachin creditors, and such notice continues after
the time for redemption has expire , and until the sheriff’s deed has been dc»
livered and recorded. Id.

12. The purpose of filing a duplicate of s certidcate of purchase made at
execution sale, is to give notice to third persons of its existence and contents. Id.

13. Purchasers at sheriff's sale.—Janua 26th, 1855,aj ent against
0. became a lien on his land. May 7th, 1 55, B. urch the land at
sherifs sale, made on an execution issued on the 'u ent, and received a
certificate, and a duplicate was filed in the olilce of e recorder. A judgment
infavor of H. against 0. became alien on the same land March 1st, 1855.
November 17th, 1855, H. purchased at sheriii"s sale, made on an execution issued
onhis judgment, the same land, and a certiilcate of sale was made on him, and
a duplicate also died. July 7th, 1858, H. received and recorded a sheriff's
deed. November 15th, 1861, P., the assignee of B.'s certincate, received and
recorded a sheriff's deed. H. had no actual notice of the sale to B.; H. was
in possession under his urchase, and November 6th, 1861, P. sued to recover

ssession. Held, that . had constructive notice of the prior sale, and that

. was entitled to recover. Id.

14. The purchaser of real estate at execution sale has, before the riod for
redemption expires, a species of equitable conditional estate, whic becomes
absolute upon the expiration of the time for redemption, leaving thereatter
only the barren legal title in the judgment debtor, until the execution and
dehve of the sheriff's deed. Id.

15. f a plaintifff, in an action of foreclosure, purchases the property at
sherid"s_sale, he is presumed to buy with full knowledge of all defects in the

roceedings relating to service of the summons. Btcinbach v. Lease, 27

al. 297. 16. During the period which elapses between the sale of land on execution

and the expiration of the time for redemption, the statute regards the purchaserasthe ownerin ’tyofthe land,subject onlyto the right oftedemption, and gives him a rents and proilts, or the value of the use and
occupation—in short, the entire beneficial interest in the property, except the

actual ‘on. Page v. Rogers, 31 Cal. 293.
17 gs purchaser of real estate sold on execution, upon the delivery to

him of the sherid 's certidcate of sale, acquires a species of conditional
equitable estate in the land, subject to be defeated only by a redem tion
within the time allowed by law,  the legal title, with a right of r emption only in the judgment debtor, which the sherif may convey to the purchaser by executiiy a deed to him after the expiration of the period allowed
for redem tion. (1.

19. U er the two hundred and twenty-ninth section of the Practice Act,
a subsequent judgment creditor having a hen has a right to redeem real estate
sold % oreclosure of a previous mo , in the hands of the purchaser.
Sec. , Kent 4: Oahoon v. Lafan, 2 C 95. This statute is remedial, and
should be benedcially construed. Id. .

20. Without express authority, neither the mayor, nor the commissioner of
the funded debt of San Francisco, nor any or either of them, by virtue of
their offices, or otherwise, are authorized to redeem, under the act of April
29th, 1851, lands of the city sold on executions against her; neither can the
city attorney ratify their act of redemption by plea after suit is brought.
Thoma v. San Francisco, 4 Cal. 127.

21. The commissioners of the funded debt are not successors in interest,
judgment debtors, or ju ent creditors, and thereforee not redemptioners;
nor are they so in their in 'vidusl ca 'ty of citizens and yers. Id.

22. A payment b the sheriil’ for e redemption of land so d under execution, cannotbe eincertifiedchecks. Id.

§ 230. Real propertyso sold, by whom it may be redeemed.

Property sold subject to redemption, as provided in the
last section, or any part sold separately, may be redeemed in
the manner hereinafter provided, by the following persons,
or their successors in interest:

1st. The judgment debtor, or his successor in interest, in
the whole or any part of the property.

2d. A creditor, having a lien by judgment or mortgage on
the property sold, or on some share or part thereof, subsequent to that on which the property was sold. The persons
mentioned in the second subdivision of this section are, in

this chapter, termed redemptioners.
Applicable to Justices’ Courts.
1. Generally.-—The statute allowing a redem tion of property sold at jndi.

cial sales contemplates that the  on sh not c e to the purchaser .

until the expiration of the time for redom tion. v. M 1.ddleton,' 5
Cal. 392; Stout v. Macy, 22 Id. 641. P
2. The statute snowing reden§tion of lands sold under execution is inoperative ss to those cases where e debt, upon which judgment and execution
 was contracted before the passage of the act. Beale v. Mitchell,
3. An act  a_ ht of sale for the enforcement of the contract would
Eobably be an a n assault upon the obligation as practically to destroy
and thereforee be unconstitutional. But a repeal of a right of redemption-—
in other words, an act  e absolute instead of conditional—would

not impair the contract. Redemption 00. v. Sedgwicle, 15 Cal. 515.

4. The statutoryregulations astoredem tion are mereprovisionsof sale,
governing the course of the process and ts effects. They do nottouch the
contract of indebtedness, which stands, as it stood before, a valid obligation
to pay money, with the sanctions furnished law for its enforcement. And
a sale without an right of redem tion is a ‘d and sumcient remedy for the
enforcement of e contract. I

5. The right to redeem under the statute, and the mode of asserting the
right, are mere creatures of the statute. The right is given to a judgment
creditor, and if before a becomes a ' ent creditor the lawbe repealed,
hehasno claimtoredeem, use he oesnotbelongtothe classofpersons
for which the remedy is furnished. Id.

6. The Legislature may give a particular privilege, or a right, to contract on
certain terms or in certain circumstances, but it ma zfiml the provision, or
deny the right, as a general rule, as fully and compile y as it can give them:
or it may alter the terms at its pleasure, subject oul£.to this, that it cannot
repeal or alter so as to adect those contracts which ve been made during
the existence of the act authorizing them. Id.

7. The right to redeem land is no part of the contract of indebtedness. It
is a new privilege given by statute. It is a provision made by statute for a
future contract, y pursuing which a purchase of land may be made. But as
this revision is only a matter out of which rights ms grow, the provision
may ere edatan timebeforeapartyavailshimsc ofit. Id.

8. A ption 0 property sold under adecree of foreclosureisaceomplished by payment under protest, if the amount claimed to be due by the
sheriff to certain portions claimed are disputed. Id.

(1 9. The statutory right of retdem tiorld is equally applicable to rind;
ecrees in mortgage cases, as sags or ordinary’ judgments w.
Llillan v. Richards, 9 Cal. 365.

10. Cotiiétsccg e uity will lean in favor of the right of redemption. Hiclcoc
v. Lowe. . .

11. A_party entitled to redeem has aright to have ascertained the price at
Hhgcfl hiaiainterest was sold, in order that he may redeem. Raun v. Reynolds,

12. The e uitable right to redeem property sold under a decree of foreclosure held y subsequent encumbrancers is merged into a statutory 
not b any force given to the language of the decree, but by the fact that ey

have their da in Court, an an opportunity of set ' up 3 equities
they‘ possessed. r the decree, they stand. as to their rig t of em tion,
is“: glsfme position as ordinary judgment debtors. M v. 1811, 11

13. In a suit to foreclose a moi-tags, K., a junior mo of the premises,
was made a arty, and in accordance with the prayer of ' answer, the decree declare the amount of his lien, and ordered e application of any proceeds of the sale remaininlgh after satisfaction of the prior mortgage to be '
ent

applied to its pa . e premises were sold under the decree to F. for
an amount more sumcient to satisfy the first mortgage, and the us
was paid to K., but leavi the larger portion of his claim unsatished. '
balance was assi ed by . to G. and B., who, within the six months, tendered the sheri the amount required by statute to redeem from the sale.
Held, that G. and B. were redemptioners under the statute, and that F. was
not entitled to the sherifs deed. Frinlc v. Murphy, 21 Cal. 108.

14. The holders of the others, secured by the mortgage, have a right to redeem from the sale made under such foreclosure, but when not made parties to
the action must assert this right to redeem within four years, or it is barred by
the Statute of Limitations. Grattan v. Wiggins, 23 Cal. 16.

15. The right to foreclose and the right to redeem are reciprocal, and the
Statute of Limitations as to the right of redemiption begins to run at the time
the right of action accrues on the mo . I

16. The obligation of a judgment c itor or redem tioner, to pay a certain
amount of money in order to exercise the statutory rig t of redemption from a
sale of land made by a sheriff, is a debt within the meaning of the Act of Congress making treasury notes lawful money and a legal tender in payment of
debts. People V. Mayhem, 26 Cal. 655.

17. who may or may not redeem.-Under the two hundred and twentyninth section of the Practice Act, a subsequent judgment creditor, having a
lien,  a right to redeem real estate sold by foreclosure of a previous mortgage in the hands of the purchaser. Kent it Galioon v. La_fa_n, 2 Cal. 595. .

18. It follows that a creditor of the mortgagor obtaining a Judgment after sale
under the decree of foreclosure, but before the execution of the conveyance
thereunder, C uireés alien on the estate entitling him to redeem. McMillan v.
Richards, 9 . 36 .
mg. Wsiere a mechanic's lien attatcixlhed on certain prelmises Jaiaiiary 

, an a mortgage was laced on e same remises anua st, ,
sud a suit was brought su uent to the execliition and reco of the mortgage to enforce the mechanic a lien, in which suit the mortgagees were not
made ‘es, and under the decree rendered in such suit a sale was made,
and r the expiration of six months no redemption beiieilg had, a deed was
gzcuted to the assi eesthof thenisherigs H d, that the rigthtthof

niortgageesto m epre see, paying eincum ranceo e
mechanic's lien, was not afected by the gecree and the proceedings thereundmsnd that the purchasers of the remises upon a decree of foreclosure of
the mortgage, ha ' received this eed upon such urchase, was entitled to
thssamenghttor eem. Wltitneyv. Higgins, 10 . 547. \

20. The right to redeem. under the statute, from a sale on execution, exists
in some instances where there is no equity, and in other instances in connection with the equitable right. Parties to the suit in which the judgment
is rendered, under which the sale is made, are restricted to the six months
given  statute. Parties acquiring interests pen ' suits to enforce pg ‘only existing hens, or after Judgment docketed or ea c made, have up eq ,
and are confined to the rights given by the statute; but parties obtaining interests su uent to the plaintiE and before suit brought, who are made

‘es in suc suit, possess the equitable and statutory right. They may reunder this statute, or they may file their bill in equity. Id.
59521. The redemption should be benehcially construed. ent v. Lajan, 2 Cal.

22. The fact that judgments were recovered before the act of 1859, does
not rest in the holders of them, the ri t to redeem from a sale made after the
Ping; of the act, upon any terms 'tferent from those prescribed by the
pet. the right to redeem under the_ act of 1851 were an incident to any

 rendered while that act existed, it was a portion of the remedy
it might be taken away by the  at any time before the right
gsd become vegtaig b althg %arty availing himself of it. Tuolumne Redemptton

o. v. SedgImc' , . I .

23.  plaintins, owners of certain judgments and decrees,  
the equitable and statutory ri ht  redeem ]property sold, and exercised their
:$h£tfnn.¢‘i:ler the by E eeming from f., aha   nngflhgls

or osure,an on .,asassigneeo o erju en , coin in
Qlaintiifsz Held, that plaintiils did not lose their equigtlfble right of redemp3011. from the fact that theyalso asserted their statutory right, the subsequent
tedem tion by D. leavin their claims iinsatislied. Id.

_2«l. doctrine of  v. iggins, (10 Cal. 554), as to equitable
nght of redemption in_favor o certain persons not made parties to a mortgage foreclosure, applied to a peculiar state of facts. Id. _

L5. Without express authority, neither the mayor nor the commissioners of
the funded debt of San Francisco, nor any or either of them, by virtue of
their offices or otherwise, are authorized to redeem, under the act of April
2?th, 1851, lands of the city sold under executions against her; neither can the
my attorney ratify their act of redemption by plea after suit brought. Thorns
"gimn '4C8L127fth r dddb i
_ . e commissioners o e. an e e t are not successors n interest,
Ndggient de‘:t:hl'8,ir0il'  d eiit CP8dlit0r8,f&l)idizt€l,lel‘6f0(lie not redemptiloners, nor
I-re ey so e in us. capac ty 0 c t us an tax-pa ers. d.
ti 27. A paylrgentatio the shrviiginigifoih thlg retgmptiou of land sbld under execuoncannot in since cecs. .

28. The purchaser at an execution sale, before conveyance to him, has a right

to redeem the property sold on the enforcement of a rior lien ; after conveyance to him, he has the same right as successor in terest to the debtor or
mortgagor. Mcllillan v. Richards, 9 Cal. 413.

29. Possibly a Court of equity would, under some circumstances, allow 1
tenant tor ears to redeem the premises sold in foreclosure, if he applied within
a reasonab e period atter becoming acquainted with the proceedings. HcDermott v. Burke, 16 Cal. 690.

30. A. owes B. a debt; to secure it A. and C. jointly mortgage to B. a piece
of land owned by them in common. Sn nently, A. mortgages his undivided
interest in the land to secure a debt to D. . forecloses against A. and C., and
buys in the whole land, not making D. a party. The time of statutory redemption having expired, B. gets a sherifs deed. Held, that D., as subsequent
mortgagee, ma redeem A.’s but not C.’s interest in the land, and that the sale
is anal as to O. s interest. D. not being a necessary party to the foreclosure.
Kirlcham v. Dupont, 14 Cal. 563.

31. A subsequent mortgagee would have a right to redeem premises from a
sale under a judgment upon mechanics’ liens by paying the money justly due.
interest, costs, etc., he not having been party to the suit by the lienholder.
Gamble v. Volt, 15 Cal. 510.

32. A mortgagor may, in this State, maintain an action to redeem the mortgage. Daubenspeclc v. Platt, 22 Cal. 330. § 231. ‘ When it may be redeemed, and redemption money.

The judgment debtor or redemptioner, may redeem the
property from the purchaser within six months after the sale,
on paying the purchaser the amount of his purchase, with
with twelve per cent. thereon in addition, together with the
amount of any assessment or taxes which the purchaser may

have paid thereon after the purchase and interest on such
amount; and if the purchaser be also 'a creditor having a
prior lien to that of the redemptioner other than the judgment under which such purchase was made, the amount of
such lien with interest.

‘Amended 1859, 139; 1860, 302, applicable to Jnstiws Courts; see ante,
preceding section.

1. When a redemptioner, under the statute, pays to the sheriff an excess of
money, under protest as to the excess, the payment is not compulsory. HoMglhzpvi. Vische1('i, 14 Cal. 235. nl h

. ere a ju gment is against two, one o y of w cm a peals, and the
appeal is dismissed with twenty per cent. damages, the danpiages, with the
costs, do not become part of the original judgment, and the redemptioner is
not bound to pay them when he redeems from a sale under the ju ent. Id.

3. The nrchaser at an execution sale, before conveyance to ‘m, has a
right to eem the property sold on the enforcement of a prior lien; after
conveyance, hlz has the same right as successor in interest to the debtor or
mo r. .

4. or is he required to pay interest on the whole ju ent of the purg , tang only on the excess over and above the bid. chillan v. Vischa-,

6. A. owes B. a debt; to secure it, A. and C. jointly mortgage to B. a piece
of land owned by them in common. Sub uently, A. mortgages his undivided interest in the land to secure a debt to . B. forecloses against A. and
0., and buys in the whole land, not making D. a . The time for statutory redemption having expired, B. ts a sh ' s eed: Held, that D., as
subsequent mortgagee, may redeem .'s, but not O.’s, interest in the land,

andthstthe saleisdnal as to C.’s interest, D. notbeinga necessarypartyto
the foreclosure. Kirlcham v. Dupont, 14 Cal. 659.

6. The redemption money for A.’s interest would be the amount of B.’s
mcrgage debt, with interest, etc., less one-half of the purchase money of the
whole tract sold. as the land of A. and C. under the foreclosure sale. Id.

7. In such case the sheriff is the bailee of the redemptioner as to the excess,
1110 may recover it back on demand, the money not ving been paid over
tothe redemptioner. McMillan v. Visclaer, 14 Cal. 282.

8. The legal estate exists in the judgment debtor after expiration of the
time to redeem, until execution of the conveyance to the purchaser. McMillan
v. Richards. 9 Cal. 365. .

9. The title to real estate does not ass until the‘ execution and delivery of
thedeed. Anllconzv. Weasel, 9Cal. 1 3.

10. Time is no given for the purpose of enabling the debtor to make a,
prodt out of the estate, but for the p se of enabling him to raise the money
toredeem. Harris v. Reynolds, 13 C . 517.

(11; Where a redemptioner, uncfiler the statuttf, pays to the sherif an “excess
0 men ,under test as to e excess, e ent isnot com so .
Icllilldny v. Visclag-1,014 Cal. 240. paym P 17

12. Under our statute a redemptioner is not required to pay interest on the
purchaser's bid, over and above the eighteen per cent. , (now twelve per cent.)
nor is he uired to pay interest on the whole judgment of the purchaser,

13 A on e excesstled av:-d and albove trhgeh bid. hld. ed th

. partyenti eem asa ' tto ave ascertain e riceat
which hlnzinterest was sold, in order that he may redeem. Raun v. I£yno1ds
14. Where a ju ent is against two, one only of whom appeals, and the
appeal is dismi with twent percent. damages, the damages with costs do

become part of the ori ' judgment, and the redemptioner is not bound

pay them when he redeems from a sale under the judgment. Jlclllillan v.
Vudaer, 14 Cal. 240.

15. Montln—The term “ months ” used in the statute axing the period of
redemption from judicial sales, means calendar and not lunar months. Gross
pr. Fowler, 21 Cal. 392.

16. A shariE's dood.—Upon a judicial sale, executed before the expiration of the statute period of redem tion, is absolutely void and not merel
midable. Grass v. meter, 21 Cal. ; 8.&:L. Society v. Thompson, 32 Id. 34 .

17. A deed executed by a sheriff immediately after the sale, without waiting
the expiration of the time given by law for redem tion, is void. An entry
mum deed is not an entry under color of ti e. Berna! v. Gleim, Oct.

. . /

18. Who may or not object to the redempt:lon.—Where aegarty grchased property at sherifs sale, and on attempt by the owner to eem in
him he objects that the amount tendered for redemption is not enou h, because not including certain taxes he has paid on the roperty: Held, t he
must show that the taxes were legally assessed and pals, and were a charge on
the property before or at the time of the redem tion, and the tax collector's
receipts are not sumcient proof. Scale v. Deane, 7 Cal. 476.

19. Third persons have no right to inquire from what source a redempgfner gets as money he proposes to use to sheet a redemption he is entitled

§282. ‘When judgment debtor, or other redemptioner, may
redeem.

If property be so redeemed by a redemptioner, either the
judgment debtor or another redemptioner may, within sixty
days after the last redemption, again redeem it from the last
redemptioner, on paying the sum paid on such last redemption, with four per cent. thereon in addition, and‘ the amount
of any assessment or taxes which the said last redemptioner
may have paid thereon after the redemption by him, with interest on such amount, and in addition the amount of any
liens held by said last redemptioner prior to his own, with
interest; provided, that the judgment under which the pro.
perty was sold need not be so paid as a lien. The property
may be again, and as often as the debtor or a redemptioner
is so disposed, redeemed from any previous redemptioner, within sixty days after the last redemption, with four per cent.
thereon in addition, and the amount of any assessments or

taxes which the last previous redemptioner paid after the
redemption by him, with interest thereon, and the amount of
any liens, other than the judgment under which the property

was sold, held by the said last redemptioner previous to his

own, with interest. Notice of redemption shall be given to,

the Sheriff ; if no redemption be made within six months

after the sale, the purchaser, or his assignee, shall be entitled
to a conveyance; or if so redeemed, whenever sixty days
have elapsed, and no other redemption has been made and
notice thereof given, the time for redemption shall have expired, and the last redemptioner or his assignee, shall be
entitled to a Sheriffs deed.* If the debtor redeem at any
time before the time for redemption expires, the effect of the
sale shall be terminated and he be restored to his estate,/'

Amended 1859, 140; 1860, 302. Applicable to Justices’ Courts.

Vsuruus or 1858, D8.

"AIDA; 18:I8¢.reIido,fpIu'ch¢ea's¢¢laletofrea1!llatebypublic¢ea’8. Approved.

‘The reople orthe State otcallhrnla,representedin8enateandAssunbly,doenactaa
knows:
8Icmars1.Wherelandshavebeenormayh,-reafterbe sold byaaherltl,
lsed omoer, for taxes. or under an execution or order Ida, and the
maybeentltledtoadeed.andthesln-rl1r,oroth~rotllcerwhomadethesale.tsdead
ore from the8tste.orln wisedlsquallned, it sballor belawful fortheeucoss
sbrotthesaldshermorothero ,tomakesuohdeedtoaue pm-chassr,hls
or°a;si':lneea,lntheaamemannerandwtththesameel!ectasl!madebytheomotr.$n.:
“ oi
Sac. 2. When hasheretoforebeen sold bye she:-ll, or other authorized oaleer.
for taxes, or an execution or order or sale. aim in consequrnoe of the death. absence
fronthe8tate,orotherdlsquallnoationot thesherllnorotberoneerwhomadethe sala.a
deedfurthepropertysosoldhasbeenexecutedtothepurehaserorpurchasers.ortohisor
their bythesucoessorotsuchsherl1!.orotboromoar,suohdeedsomade,asatoseIald.by successor 1-{the omoerwho msde thesale.ls hereby ratined andconm-med.and
madeasvalldand binding, to oonveythe property.aIth thesamehadbeen executed
theotlloerhimsellwhomadethesalegandsuoh somade.andexccnted.and
Dd8°d.aooosdln¢tobw.andheretotonnwrdsd.shdllmpctnotloeotnswntenh
and after the dateofthe passage otthls Act.
. aomadeas shalllnavethesanetnresandelsetasevlllnea

1. A shei-if who sells land under execution, and gives a certificate of the sale
to the purchaser, and subsequently his term of otllce expires, is the proper per,eon to make the deed. Anthony v. Weasel. 9 Cal. 103.

2. A purchaser at a aheri.E ’s sale may have a lien upon the (property £110:
to that of the redemptioner. The fact that he is the creditor oes not vest
the lien. He may be both a creditor and a purchaser, and still have a prior
lien to that of the redemptioner. This can oitillly be on the princigge that the
legal estate is still in the udgment debtor, un ' the delivery of sherid‘ ‘s
deed. Knight 1'. Iihir, 9 al. 117.

3. The Bedemption Act of 1859 is in substitution of the Act of 1851, and
sip lies to sales made after the assage of the Act of 1859, though made u 11
£15 ents rendered before. umne Redemption Co. v. Sedgwiclc, 15

4. The pa ent by a judgment debtor of the judgment, after a sheriR’s
sale, extinguipsilziles the lien, and the fact that he takes a transfer of the certificate and the sheriff ‘a deed, instead of a certificate of redemption, cannot
divest the lien of a subsequent gudgment. McCarthy v. Christie, 13 Cal. 81.

6. Where plaintifffs, owners 0 certainj dgments and decrees, had both the
equitable and statuto right to redeem goperty sold, and exercised their
right under the statute y redeeming from ., who _ had purchased under his
own foreclosure, and then D., as assignee of other Judgments, redeemed from

' tiifs: Held, that laintiifs did not lose their equita le right of redemption

the fact that ey also asserted their statute right, the subsequent

redemption b 5Déal1ea5v2ii21g their claims unsatisned. uolumne Redemption Co.
v. Bedgwick,’ . .

6. A sheriiY’s deputy may execute a deed for property sold under execution,
but he must execute it in the name of the s erilf. If executed in his own
Igséls, is decisive against the party claiming under it. Lewis 17. Thompson,

7. A mandamus will not lie against a sherid‘ to compel him to make a deed
to land to a purchaser at execution salewho refuses to pay the purchase
money, for the reason that he is the oldest 'udgment and execution creditor,
Ind entitled to the mono , especial! when ere is an unsettled contest as to
the question of lien. illgams v. mith, 6 Cal. 91. _ .

8. Where a shei-iil"s deed is executed by a deputy, in the name of the sherid'
whose term of office had expired at the time of the execution of the deed, the
authority of the deputy must be shown to authorize such deed to be read in evidence in an action of ejectment. Cloud v. El Dorado Cbunty, 12 Cal. 128.

9. The shei-itl”s deed, executed under a judicial sale for taxes, is not puma
facie: or conclusive evidence of his power to sell. But his power to sell. to
recite a sale in his deed, and to make the deed, must be proved by the judg.
ment and execution. People v. Doc, 31 Cal. 220.

l0._A deputy sheriff may,after the expiration of the term of ethos of his
principal, and in_ the absence of the latter from the S_tate, execute a deed to the
ggréhagir. at a Juditcial sal_e;Mi1ni;de ltihy tlie tab?-iltl’85vgh;ll¢i in _onlc<tal.I 'l(‘lhe :ll_thO!'lt

e puyis no impair y e ac 0 . owing e ee insuc
cases to be executed by the succeeding sheriff. M ills v. Sulcey, 22 Cal. 373.‘

11. The otllcer who makes a sale of land by virtue of an execution, and executes to the urchaser a dieild therefore} 01111181? in his deed make recittials of tbs
recovery of t e judgment, e names 0 t e judgment creditor or cre itors, an
of the judgment. debtor or debtors. and of the issuing of an execution on the
Judgment. and of the levy and sale thereunder. The recital of such facts is esgenttiial to show the t;mcer’s :aI‘lSCh0l'lt‘_1£, 0:2?! the i&l’[n!1Nl§_tl3;;8l0n of thee d;2b‘l1:<iii’s title
In ~ epro erty to e urc er. we v. c etals., 24 a . .« T

12. A eriR's deed‘i‘i)nder a judicial sale, executed before the expiration of the
Statutory 'od of redemption, is absolutely void, and not merely voidable.
Gross v. Iiloioler, 21 Cal. 392. See preceding section.

§ 233. ‘In cases of redemption, to whom the payments are to be
made.

The payments mentioned in the last two sections may be

made to the purchaser or redemptioner, as the case may be,
or for him, to the oliicer who made the sale. When the

judgment under which the sale has been made is payable in
a specified kind of money or currency, said payments _shall
be made in the same kind of money or currency, and a tender of the money shall be equivalent to payment.
‘Amended 1863, 690. Applicable to Justices’ Courts.

1. Where a redemptioner under the statute pays to the sherif an execs of
money under rotest as to the excess, the payment is not compulsory. HeMillan v. Vac , 14 Cal. 232.

2. In such case the sherin‘ is the bailee of the redem tioner as to the
excess, who may recover it back on demand. the money notiaving been paid
over to the redemptioner. Id.

3. A yment to the sherif for the redemption of land sold under execution 6
cannot made in certfiled checks. People v. Ha s, 4 Cal. 127.

4. The “ officer who made the sale " refers to e incumbent at the time of r
the acts of sale, and not to the omcial character of the person; and if he be
dead his successor cannot rform the duty—i. c., receive the redemption
moneé P v. Boring, 8 al. 406; Anthony v.Wesse1, 9 Id. 103. A

5. ow r emption money in such cases is to be paid. discussed. Id.

6. The title to redeem does not arise from the existence of the facts men- ,
tioned in the statute, but it is a statutory right, given only in the event of a ‘
tender and production of certain statutory proofs. The redemptioner must
produce a copy of the docket of the judgment. Haskell v. Manlovc, 14 Cal. 54. 1

7. The eEect of a sherifs certidcate of sale of land is spent when the C
defendant in the judgment pays the holder of the certidcate the amount of
the purchase and interest. Babcr v. McLel1an, 30 Cal. 135. ‘ _

8. Land sold at sheriffs sale under a ju ent, payable generally in
money, without specifying a particular kind o money, may be redeemed
r‘tt.h  lggtes, made a legal tender by Act of Congress. People v. May, 6 . 6 .

9. The sherid‘ is the special agent of the purchaser of land, authorized to
receive the redem tion money for him, and as such may receive in
tion what is re ed as current money at the time and lace, though not
strictly a legal tender, unless the judgment under which e sale was made
3: 1:a5n5dered payable in a particular kind of money. People v. Maybe», 26

§ 234. What a redemptioner must do in order to redeem.

A redemptioner shall produce to the officer or person
from whom he seeks to redeem, and serve with his notice to
the sheriff:

1st. A copy of the docket of the judgment under which he
claims the right to redeem, certified by the Clerk of the
Court, or of the county where the judgment is docketed; 01'
if he redeem upon a mortgage or other lien, a note of the
record thereof certified by the recorder:

2d. A copy of any assignment necessary to establish his

claim, verified by the affidavit of himself, or of a subscribing
witness thereto: and ‘

;3d. An aiiidavit by himself or his agent, showing the
amount then actually due on the lien.

A lieable to Justices’ Court.

1. a party claim a sheriffs deed, as havi redeemed property as succeslor in interest of the ju ent debtor, his 0 er to redeem must have been
lnsdein that character. aslcell v. Manlove, 14 Cal. 54.

2. To entitle a judgment creditor having a lien to redeem, he must serve
upon the officer a copy of the docket of the judgment. A copy of the judgment is not sumcient. Id.

3. A certincate of the sherif of the purchase of pro as that of
the defendant in execution is not sumcient to enable the ol er to redeem
ll such successor, at least, not until the e iration of the six months. Id.

4. An assignee of a judgment and of the eriifs certincate of a sale there-.
under stands in the same position as his assignor, the plaintifff, after the judgment has been reversed; and the sale will be set aside and the ‘property reItoredto the defendant. where no loss or injury will be done e assignee.

v. Harris, 14 Cal. 667.
_ . Otherwise, as to a stranger, a bona jide purchaser without notice. He
is not within the rule. But to constitute himself such a urchaser, he must
show that he has paid the purchase mone , and also that e is the purchaser
of the legal title, not of a mere equity. d a purchaser at execution sale is
not clothed with the legal title until he receives a sherifs deed. Id.

§235. Until the expiration of redemption time, Court may
restrain waste on the property ; what shall be considered waste.

Until the expiration of the time allowed for redemption’

the Court may restrain the commission of waste on the prop-~

erty, by order granted with or without notice, on the application of the purchaser or the judgment creditor. But it
shall not be deemed waste for the person in possession of the
property at the time of sale, or entitled to possession afterwards, during the period allowed for redemption, to continue
to use it in the same manner in which it was previously used ;
or to use in the ordinary course of husbandry; or to make
 ..,__, "wary repairs of buildings thereon; or to use wood

9.x-:'.;‘:__* _ the property therefore; or for the repair of
':"f“~:=’ .,' _‘ "_ * fuel in his family, while he occupies the prop"M13-:;.%‘4

.3“ ' ' -. ustices’ Courts.

. ""=-—- ..

‘ta 3. ‘ v ‘ /‘

fm,,,__"':*~~~. 9 and prqfits, who is to receive. Q.//' 

QM =>-..'.. _' ser from the time of the sale until a redemptionM... ,"'“ ~.. _ - >tioner, from the time of his redemption until
 ' nption, shall be entitled to receive from the
 _ session the rents of the property sold, or the
Ie~..°", - Ise and occupation thereof.

'‘,l‘''*'‘n. " ustices’ Courts.

rmtg“ .

1. The purchaser at sherin"s sale of a “water ditch" is entitled tothe
rents and profits thereof from the date of the sale till the expiration of the,
time for redem tion, as well from the iudgment debtor in possession as from
his tenant. arris v. Reynolds, 13 Cal. 514.

2. The words “ tenant in possession," in section two hundred and thirty-six ' q

of the Practice Act, embrace the juggment debtor, as well as his lessee. Id.

3. Where the owner of mortgag premises leases the same for a term of.years, and the rent is aid in advance by the tenant: Held, that the purchaser,
under the mortgage s, can require the tenant to pay the rent over again to
him. McDsw'ltt v. Sullivan, 8 Cal. 592.

4. A party in sseasion of premises under sheriffs sale, and receiving
rents and proiits uring the time for redemption, should, in equity, as between
him and defendant in execution, pay the taxes assessed while he is so in possession. If the owner does not pa them, then the statute requires the party
in ssession to-pay. Kelsey v. Abbott, 13 Cal. 609.

. If, in such case, such fails to pa the tax, permits the premises to
be sold, and buys them in, e can derive no ent from the sale; except that,
in equity, the amount (1 would robably be considered an advance to the
judgment debtor. An this, the the premises were bid in by one of two

rtners, while the possession un er the sherifs sale was by both partners.

e duty to pay the tax was several as well as joint. Id.

6. A purchaser of land at sheriffs sale can maintain an action for rent
against the tenant in possession under the judgment debtor, before the exrration of the six months allowed for redemption, and as often as the rent
becomes due under the terms of the lease existing when he purchased.
Ids v. Lathrop, 7 Cal. 43.

. The sale 0 rates as an assignment of the lease for the time. Id.

8. As to who er the words “ tenant in possession" would include the ' algment debtor, in a case where he was in possession at the time of the s, so
as to make him responsible for use and occupation—quer_1/I Id.

9. At a sherifs sale of the premises on a foreclosure suit by plaintid 1
against 13., plaintiff became the purchaser. During the six months succeed- _
ing the sale, C., actin as agent of defendants, occupied the premises, carry- }
ing on the business 0 a saloon. At the end of the six months, defendants, |
as mo agees, redeemed. Held, that the defendants are tenants in possession 1
within e two hundred and thirty-sixth section of the Practice Act, and must
pgyctgllie llgintif for use and occupation for the six months. Knight v. Ii-usll,

10. A judgment debtor who redeemed his property within twenty-one days ’
after the sheri3"s sale, but who had received from his tenants in ‘on I
four hundred and forty-live dollars rent between the day of e and die '
redemption: Held, liable to the purchaser at the sale for the amount so I
received. Kline v. Chase, 17 Cal. 596.

11. The section of the act allowing to the purchaser the value of the use
and occupation afords the only remedy the purchaser is entitled to. Gay v.
Jfiddleton, 5 Cal. 392.

12. In an action to recover possession of land on a title acq
sherifs sale and a deed thereunder, the ' '
and profits which have accrued duri e six months after the sale allowed
for redemption. Henry v. Everts, 30 al. 425.

13. The right of a purchaser at a sherifs sale to rents and prohts d '
the time allowed for redemption rests upon the statute; while in ejectmen
the right to rents and profits rests upon title or the right of possession. Id.

14. The purchaser at sheriff's sale of land sold on execution issued on
judgment recovered for taxes, is not entitled to receive the rents and pron
during the period allowed for redemption. Mayo v. Woods,31 Cal. 269.

15. After a decree foreclosing a mortgage, the mor or in possession
not, until a sale is made under the decree. accountable e ther for rents orf
use and occupation, and is subject to no liability, except that he may be r
strainedjfrom the commission of waste. Whitney v. Allen, 21 Cal. 233.

16. Aperson who, after the commencement of an action to foreclose a mo
gage, acquires possession of the premises from one of the defendants, and coII_

thee: to occupy after a sale under the decree of foreclosure, is a “ tenant in
ion,” and liable as such to the urchasers for the rents and prohts accruing between the sale and the execu ng of the sheriff's deed. Shores v. Scott
River 00., 21 Cal. 135. .
17. B. having a possessory interest in certain premises, which have been sold
under a foreclosure decree, employed 1!. to manage the property and receive
all its roceeds, and pay them over in certain dxed proportions to-R. and S.
Held, MI. was a mere agent of R. and not a “ tenant in possession,” and,
thereforee, not liable to the purchaser at the sale for the rents and profits. Id.
18. During the period which elapses between the sale of land on execution
and the expiration of the time for redemption, the statute regards the purchaser,
as the owner in equity of the land, ubject only to the right of redemption.
and gives him the rents and profits, or the value of the use and occupation-—in
short, the entire henetlcial interest in the property, except the actual possession.
Page v. Rogers, 31 Cal. 293.
J l9.TSec8ti<;n 236 of Practice Act does not apply to tax sales. Mayo v. Woods,
an. ., 1 6 .

§ 237. ‘If purchaser of real property be evicted for irregularities in the sale, what he may recover and from whom. When

judgment to be revived. Petition for the purpose, how and by
whom made.

If the purchaser of real property, sold on execution, or his
successor in interest, be evicted therefrom in consequence of
irregularities in the proceedings concerning the sale, or of
the reversal or discharge of the judgment, he may recover
the price paid, with interest, from the judgment creditor.
If the purchaser of property at Sheriffs sale or his successor
in interest, fail to recover possession, in consequence of irregularity in the proceedings concerning the sale, or because the
property sold was not subject to execution and sale, the
Court having jurisdiction thereof shall, on petition of such
party in interest, or his attorney, revive the original judgment for the amount paid by such purchaser at the sale, with
interest thereon, from the time of payment, at the same rate
that the original judgment bore; and when so revived the
said judgment shall have the same effect as an original judgment of the said Court of that date, and bearing interest as
aforesaid,’ and any other or after-acquired property, rents,
issues, or profits, of the said ‘debtor, shall be liable to levy
and sale under execution in satisfaction of such debt; provided, that no property of such debtor sold bona fide before
the filing of such petition, shall be subject to the lieu of said
judgment; and, provided further, that notice of the filing of
such petition shall be made by filing a notice thereof in the

Recorder’s ethos of the county where such property may be
situated; and that said judgment shall be revived in the
name of the original plaintifff or plaintifffs, for the use of said

petitioner, the party in interest.

‘Amended 1860, 303. Applicable to Justices’ Courts.

1. A urchaser at a sherifs sale is entitled to a notice of motion to set it

Esidei‘ lsgsrsonal service of the notice is not requisite. Eclcstein v. Calder-wood,
an. . .

2. The suit of seire facias is a remedy unknown to our practice, and cannot
be employed for the revival or enforcement of a judgment Humiston v.
Smith, 21 Cal. 129.

3. When the title of a purchaser at a sale in a foreclosure suit fails on account of defect of parties in such suit, he must seek relief by pursuing the
¢(:}oa1l1rs8e8pointed out in Boggs v. Hargrave, 16 Cal. 566. Btu-ton v. Lies, 21

4. The purchaser at sherifs sale is entitled to notice to set it aside. The
fact that he was absent from the State at the time of the sale, or at the time
the motion was made, did not excuse the defendants from serving him with a
copy of the order to show cause. Eclwtein v. Oalderwood, Jan. '1‘. 1868.

T I T L E X X I I .
CHAPTER II.--Proceedings supplementary to execution.

Sscnox 238. When execution returned unsatisfied, judgment creditor may
compel judgment debtor to appear before a Judge and
answer concerning his property; debtor not to go out of
his county.

239. Proceedings to compel debtor to appear; in what cases he
may be arrested ; what bail may be given.

240. Any (ciliebtor of the judgment debtor may pay the latter’:
cre tor.

241. Examination of debtors of ju ent debtor, or of those

having property belou ing to im.
242. Witness required to testi .
243. Judge may order property to be applied on execution.
244. Proceedings upon claim of another party to property, or on
denial of indebtedness to judgment debtor.
245. Disobedience of order, how punished.

§ 238. When execution returned unsatisfied, judgment creditor
may compel judgment debtor to appear before a Judge and
answer concerning his property; debtor not to go out of the
county.

When an execution against property of the judgment debtor,
or of any one of several debtors in the same judgment, issued

to the Sheriii‘ of the county where he resides; or if he do not
reside in this State, to the Sheriff of the county where the judgment roll is filed: is returned unsatistied in whole or in part,
the judgment creditor, at any time after such return is made,
shall be entitled to an order from the Judge of the Court, or
a county Judge, requiring such judgment debtor to appear
and answer concerning his property, before such Judge, or a
referee appointed by him, at a time and place specified in
the order; but no judgment debtor shall be required to
attend before a Judge or referee out of the county in which

he resides, when proceedings are taken under the provisions

of this chapter.
N. Y. Code, § 292. Abb. Forms, 1865-1867. Applicable to Justices’ Courts.

38%. Edwards on Referees, 158, st ssq.; and Edwards on Receivers in Equity,
, st seq.

9. These proceedings are a substitute for a creditor's bill in the old practice. Adams v. Haclcett, 7 Cal. 187.

3. The fact that a referee in the proceedings supplemen to execution
was the clerk of the attaching creditor, is not any considerab e evidence of
fraud, when the limiteddutles of the referee are considered. Id.

4. As soon as proceedings supplementary to execution were instituted before
the District Court, it obtained jurisdiction over the case, and had authority

to d 1 th f th ' d d b 'sfacti
of  °nqppfymoep Em om. e J11 gment e tor to the sati on

§ 239. ‘Proceedz'ng.s to compel debtor to appear ; in what cases
he may be arrested; what bail may be given.

Aiier the issuing of an execution against property, and upon
proof by affidavit, of a party or otherwise, to the satisfaction
of the Court, or of a Judge thereof, or County Judge, that
any judgment debtor has property which he unjustly refuses
to apply towards the satisfaction of the judgment, such
Court or Judge may, by an order require the judgment
debtor to appear at a specified time and place before such
Judge, or a referee appointed by him, to answer concerning
the same; and such proceedings may thereupon be had for
the application of the property of the judgment debtor
toward the satisfaction of the judgment as are provided upon
the return of an execution. Instead of the order requiring
the attendance of the judgment debtor, the Judge may upon
affidavit of the judgment creditor, his agent or attorney, if it
appear to him that there is danger of the debtor absconding,
order the Sheriff to arrest the debtor and bring him before
such Judge. Upon being brought before the Judge, he may
be ordered to enter into an undertaking with sufficient surety

that he will attend from time to time before the Judge or
referee, as shall be -directed during the pendency of proceedings and until the final termination thereof, and will not
in the meantime dispose of any portion of his property, not
exempt from execution. In default of entering into such

undertaking he may be committed to prison.

‘Amended 1854, 90. See N. Y. Code§ 292. Applicable to Justices’ Courb.

1. A commitment for contem t, for refusing to obey an order of Court
commanding the imprisonment o the party in contempt, until he shall comply with this order, Csh’<;;l.d6sEtalfo§tl§ that it is in the power of the party to
comp . parte 0 . 1 .

2. Where the plaintit proceeded, under section 239 of the Practice Act, to examine his judgment debtor as to a judgment held by him against A., and, after
examination, obtained an order to ap ly the same to the judgment of plaintil,
it seems that it is not necessary to ma e A. a arty to the proceeding. Id.

3. Though Courts are exclusive judges of t eir own contempts. still, a Barty
cannot be mprisoned for neglecting or refusing to do what it appears it out
of his power to perform. Adams v. Haslcell, 6 Cal. 316.

§ 240. Any debtor of the judgment debtor may paythe latter’:
creditor.

After the issuing of an execution against property, any
person indebted to the judgment debtor may pay to the
Sl1eriE the amount of his debt, or so much thereof as may be
necessary to satisfy the execution ; and the Sheriii"s receipt

shall be a suilicient discharge for the amount so paid.

See N. Y. Code, § 293. Applicable to Justices’ Courts.

1. B. recovered a judgment %ainst A. and others, and thereafter assigned it
for a valuable consideration to . Subsequent to the assignment, and before
notice thereof to the defendants, the paid the amount of the 'udgment, less
829 50, to the sheriff, who had served a arnishment upon them n D. v. R. and
to a constable on an execution held by him in V. v. B. Action brought by B.

ainst A. and others to recover the amount of his jud ment against them.

dd, that the case did not come under the provisions of the 5th section of the
Practice Act, but under section 240, and that as the defendants were not in fact
debtors of B., but of C., at the time of the payments, the were not disc
from liability on the judgment against them in favor of . In order to b ng
a party within the terms of the 240th section of the Practice Act, there must be
a judgment and an execution thereon against pro erty, and the person making
the payment must be indebted at the instant to in, against whom the execution runs. Brown v. Ayres ct ale, Oct. '1‘., 1867.

2. In an action for a malicious prosecut:lon.—-The plaintifff, after a
verdict in his favor, and before 'udgment assigned the cause of action and verb
dict, judgment having been an uently entered, defendant was eed
under the execution issued on other judgments against the plaint , and aid
to the sheriff the amount of the judgment in favor of the pla ntiif against him,
who applied the same upon the executions. Held, that the assignment was void,
and that the payment by defendant to the sheriff was a satisfaction of the judgment. Lawrence v. Martin, 22 Cal. 173.

§ 241. Examination of debtors of judgment debtor, or of those
having property belonging to him.

. After the issuing or return of an execution against property‘
of the judgment debtor, or of any one of several debtors in

the same judgment, or upon proof by affidavit hr otherwise,
to the satisfaction of the Judge, that any person or corporation has property of such judgment debtor, or is indebted to
him in an amount exceeding fifty dollars, the Judge may, by

an order, require such person or corporation, or any officer or».

member thereof, to appear at a specified time and place before
him, or a referee appointed by him, and answer concerning
the same.

1867.
1. Sections two hundred and forty-one, two hundred and forty-two and two

hundred and forty-three of the Practice Act, relating to roceedlgs supplementary to execution, do not authorize the Court to mate an 0 er for the
application of property of the judgment debtor in the hands of a third

See N. Y. Code, § 294. Applicable to Justices’ Courts. Abb. Forms, 1865- o

to the satisfaction of a judgment, upon the mere affidavit of the.p1a1n ' ,.

without first exannm' 'ng the arty alleged to have the pro rty in his possession as to the truth of the egation. The order to a plypthe property to the
satisfaction of the judgment must be based upon e answer of the rson
alleged to have it in his possession, and such other testimony as may adduced at the hearing in connection with his answer. The affidavit of the
plaintifff merely serves as the basis of a proc ’ to acquire iurisdiction of
386 party who was before a stranger to the action. athaway v.

§ 242. Witness required to testify.

Witnesses may be required to appear and testify before
the Judge or referee, upon any proceeding under this chapter, in the same manner as upon the trial of an issue.
See N. Y. Code, 6295. Applicable to Justices’ Courts.

§ 243. Judge may order property to be applied on execution.

rady, 26 Cal.

The Judge or referee may order any property of the judgment debtor, not exempt from execution, inthe hands of. such
debtor or any other person, or due to the judgment. debtor,

to be applied towards the satisfaction of the judgment; ex-,

cept, that the earnings of the debtor for his personal services,
at any time within thirty days next preceding the order,
shall not be so applied, when it shall be made to appear by

the debtor's affidavit or otherwise, that such earnings are

necessary for the use of a family supported whollyor partly

by his labor.

See N. Y. Code, i297. Applicable to Justices’ Courts. See Adams v. Hackd£(7 Cal. 202), astotheformof theorderinthatcase.

1. Where the defendant in an action, whose property had been attached by
thesheriff, depositedwith the sherin‘ asumof money, ingoldcoin, inheuof

anundertahng' to procureareleaseofthe property,and the propertywas
thereupon released, and afterwards, by agreement between the parties to the
action, the money was taken from the sherin‘ and loaned out pending the
litigation, and a note drawing interest taken therefore, payable to plaintiffs
attorne : Held, that after plaintid’ recovered judgment, the persons who borrowed e money did not hold it in the character of bailees of the sherif, but
that they were mere debtors, and the money in their hands a mere debt, to be
treated as such on proceedings supplementary to execution. Hathaway 7.
Brady, 26 Cal. 586.

2. In proceedin supplementary to execution, the Court has no jurisdiction
tomakeordersre ' topersonswhoarenot parties totheproceedin , nor
has it awe-r to make an order that one who has, by consent of plain ' and
defen t, borrowed money deposited with the sherin‘ by defendant to release
an attachment, and given his note to a third party therefore, pa able when
plaintiff recovers judgment, shall pay the money to the plain ' , when the
person who holds the note is not a party to the proceeding, and the note is

_ still in his hands and not under the control of the Court. Id.

3. It‘. nding a litigation to recover a mono 'udgment, gold coin of the
defendaiit which is in the custody of the shery, is, by consent of parties
loaned out, and a note of the borrower is taken therefore, payable in gel coin,
the Court cannot, after plaintiff recovers judgment, and while the note is outstanding in the hands 0 third parties, and not under the control of the Court,
make an order, in proceedings supplllelmentary to execution, that the borrower
pay over the money in gold coin. e mode of enforcing a contract payable
iaeclgin  under the statute, by an action or proceeding upon the contact
1 . .

4. In roceedings supplemen to execution, the Court has power, when
it has  u before it, to apgdiynt a receiver, and order a note in the hands
of a person, a party to the proceeding, and yable to the judgment
debtor, or to such third person as trustee of the juggment debtor, to be delivered up to the receiver, to be collected by suit or otherwise under its direction, and the proceeds applied to the payment of the debt. Id.

§ 244. Proceedings upon claim of another party to properly,
or on denial of indebtedness to judgment debtor.

If it appear that a person or corporation, alleged to have
property of the judgment debtor or indebted to him, claims
an interest in the property adverse to him, or denies the debt,
the Court or Judge may authorize, by an order made to that
effect, the judgment creditor to institute an action against
such person or corporation for the recovery of such interest
or debt; and the Court or Judge may, by order, forbid a
transfer or other disposition of such interest or debt, until an
action can be commenced and prosecuted to judgment. Such
order may be modified or vacated by the Judge granting the
same, or the Court in which the action is brought, at any
time, upon such terms as may be just.

See N Y. Code, g 299. Aplicable to Justices’ Courts.

§ 245. Disobedience of orders, how punished.
If any person, party or witness, disobey an order of the

referee, properly made, in the proceedings before him under
this chapter, he may be punished by the Court or Judge
ordering the reference, for a contempt.

See N. Y. Code, Q 302. Appplicable to Justices’ Courts.
1. It is contempt for a party to refuse to obey or answer the writ, on the
gun; that he is a witness attending on another Court. Page v. Randall, 6

TITLE XXIII.

ACTIONS IN PARTICULAR CASES.

Cmrrsn I.—Act2'ons for the farclosure of mortgages.

Sncnox 246. Proceedings in foreclosure suits.
247. Surplus money to be d ‘ted in Court.

248. Proceedings when do t secured falls due at cliierent
times.

§ 246. ‘Proceedings in foreclosure suits.

There shall be but one action for the recovery of any
debt, or the enforcement of any right secured by mortgage
upon real estate or personal property, which action shall
be in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. In
actions for the foreclosure of mortgages, the Court shall
have power, by its judgment, to direct a sale of the encumbered property, (or so much thereof as may be necessary),
and the application of the proceeds of the sale to the payment of the costsof the Court and the expenses of the sale,
and the amount due to the plaintifff; and if it appear from
the Sheriffs return that the proceeds are insufficient, and a
balance still remains due, judgment shall then be docketed
for such balance against the defendant or defendants personally liable for the debt, and shall then become a lien on
the real estate of such judgment debtor, as in other cases
on which execution may be issued. N 0 person holding a
conveyance from or under the mortgagor of the property
mortgaged, or having a lien thereon, which conveyance or

lien does not appear of record in the proper oilice at the
time of the commencement of the action, need be made a
party to such action; and the judgment therein rendered,
and the proceedings thereinhad, shall be as conclusive against
the party holding such unrecorded conveyance or lien as if
he had been made a party to said action, and shall in all

respects have the same force and effect.

‘Amended 1860, 303; 1861, 306; 1866, 704. San Francisco county, seeDistrict Court Rules Nos. XXIV, XXV.
1. The provisions of the thirty-second section of the Practice Act do not

a ply to actions for the foreclosure of mortgages on real estate. Bawenv. Mag,

1‘ Cal. 348.
2. A foreclosure suit, by our law, results only inalegal ascertainment of

the amount due, and a decree directing the sale of the remises for its ssh‘:faction, the surplus, if any, goin to subsequent incum rancers, or the owner
of the remises, and execution ollowing for any dedciency. McMillan v.
Riclun-(E, 9 Cal 365.

3. Complaint.—See 5 39, note No. 202.

4. Parties.-,—Where one of two ers executes a mortgage upon his
separate property to secure a debt 0 the dim, an action to foreclose the mortgage may, after the death of the mortgagor, be maintained  his exe- ,

cuter, without any showing’ b the plaintm‘ that the partnershi is insolvent,
or that he has pursued his rerhedy u n the debt against the sitirviving partner. Saving and Loan Society v. Gib , 21 Cal. 595.

5. In such action, where the surviving partner is also the executor of the
deceased partner, and claims as his devisee an interest in the mortgaged operty, there is no misjoinder in makin him, as an individual, a co-defen t
with himself as executor. Saving and n Society v. Gibb, 21 Cal. 595.

6. If the real holders of the title are not partiesto the decree of foreclosure,
a court of uity will allow them to be made such by a supplemental complaint, %1:'3o\(r)i&le(il3.gplication be made within a reasonable time. Heyman v.

7. See further, M 6, 12, 13.

8. Suit against executors, etc.-—An action may be maintained in the
District Court against an executor or administrator, to foreclose a mortgage
upon real estate executed by his testator or intestate, although the debt, secured by the mortgage, has been presented as a claim to the executor or administrator and allowed him. and also by the Probate Judge of the county,
where the only object of t e action is to reach the roperty mo ed and
subject it to sale, and have the proceeds applied to e payment of e debt
secured, and a judgment is not asked against the eneral estate, of the deceased for the debt or an art of it. Fallon v. B , 21 Cal. 24. Amrmed,

Pechaud v. Rinquet, 21 C . 6.
9. A creditor of the estate of a deceased person. whose debt is secured by

meme, may, after having presented his claim for allowance to the executor
or 'nistrator and Probate Judge, whether it be allowed or rpaected,
rooted at once to foreclose his mortgage in the District Court. ilis v.
arcly at aLs.. 24 Cal. 499.

10. See further, M 6, 12,13.

11. Mortgage payable in 1nsta1men13.—When a debt secured bg mortr
duo

e is payable in instalments, the mo ee or his assignee has a ht to
Egg an action to foreclose the mo e w on the first instalment

andisnot paid. Grattanv. Wiggins 3 Cal. 16.
12. Beepost, $248. '

13. Statute of Limitations, defendant may set up.—ln an action to
recover judgment for the amount of the debt secured by mortgage on real
estate, and also to foreclose the mortgage, the grantees of the mo or,
purchasers subsequent to the execution of the mortgage, have a right to p sad
the statute of limitations as to that part of the claim of plaintifff which asks
for a decree foreclosi the mortgage and a sale of the mortgaged premises.
Grattanv.Wiggins, 23 al. 16.

14. A party who, subsequent to the execution of a mortgage, purchases

the property from the mortgagor, may avail himself of the statute of limitsdons as a defense to an action for the foreclosure of the mortgage commenced after the statute has run against the debt secured. McCarthy v. White,
21 Cal. 495. See Low v. Allen, 26 Cal. 141, and Lent v. Shear, Id. 361.

15. Receiver of rents, etc.—In a foreclosure suit, the plaintifff has no right

tohsve a receiver of rents and rotlts of the mortgaged property appointed
pending the litigation. Guy v. I , 6 Cal. 99.

16. Referee may be appointed to find amount. due.—The usual and
best method of proceeding in cases of foreclosure, is to appoint a master to find
and report the amount due, and then exceptions ma be filed to the repo ,upon
which the judgment of the Chancellor is given, an this may afterwards he assigned as error. Guy v. Franklin, 5 Cal. 416.

17. It is no error for the Chancellor to make the calculations himself; but
when he has done so, a mistake in calculation must be brought to his notice in
some form analogous to that of an exception to a master’s report. Id.

18. What a decree should contain.—A1l that a decree in a suit to foreclose a mortgage should contain, is a statement of the amount due to the plaintifffs, a designation of the defendants who are personally liable for the payment
of the debt, and a direction that the mortgaged premises, or so much thereof as
may be necessary, be sold according to law, and the proceeds applied to the
payment of the expenses of sale, the costs of the action and the debt. Nothing
further is required. Lewiston v. Swan, Oct. '1‘. 1867.

19 The omission of the words " be sold” in a judgment of foreclosure, after
the description of the’ remlses, is a mere clerical error. which will not affect the
judgment. Moore v. ample, 11 Cal. 360 ; Abb. Forms, 198, 200. _

[San Francisco county. See Rule XXV as to what a decree should conbin.)

20. Cases relating to the substance of a decree.—Where A. was indebted to B., to secure which indebtedness the latter held the promissory note
of the former, and it was agreed that A. should give a mortgage upon real
estate to secure the indebtedness, and that B. should give up and cancelthe
notes, and waive all claim upon the personal responsibility of A: Held, in an action to foreclose the mortgage, that B. was not entitled to a personal decree
against A. for any balance which should remain unpaid after the sale of the
mortgaged premises. Moore v. Reynolds, 1 Cal. 251.

21. It is error to decree that the sherili‘ should execute a deed to othe purchaser on the foreclosure sale, the land being sold subject to redempti n in six
months. Harlan v. Smith, 6 Cal. 17 4.

22. In a foreclosure suit the decree will not apportion the debt among the
several co—tenants of the land who acquired undivided interests therein at the
same time and subsequent to the execution of the mortgage. Perre v. Castro,
14 Cal. 531.

23. Where the proceedings in a foreclosure suit were delayed by agreement,
in consideration of the execution of a second mortgage on other propert in
which third parties joined as additional security, and subsequently plaintill." ed
a supplemental bill setting up the second mortgage, and asking a sale of the
premises described in both mortgages, judgment was taken by default for the
debt, and the Court decreed a foreclosure of the several mo es and a sale 0 f
the property conveyed, and directed that the property descri ed in the mortgtge executed by Reynolds should be first offered for sale, but that no hid
should be received for a less sum than the full amount of jud cut and costs ;
if this sum was not bid, then the whole property included the two mortes-—from Reynolds and from Kirk and Revuolds—was to be sold together:

aid, that the decree is erroneous. Raun v. Reynolds, 11 Cal. 14.

24. In an action to foreclose a mortgage to recover a debt upon which nothing
but the interest was due, the Court below decreed a sale of the property, and
directed that the proceeds be applied to the payment of the entire debt ; and
further decreed, that in case of deficiency of the proceeds, plaintifff recover of
defendant the balance and have execution therefore: Held, that the latter clause
of the decree, giving judgment and execution for the deficiency, must be so
modified as to exclude that portion of the debt not due; that as to this the power
of the Court, under the statute, was exhausted by decreeing a sale of the property. Thggart v. San Antonio Ridge D. and M ('o., 18 Cal. 460.

25. A judgment in a foreclosure case adjudged erroneous. See facts. Van
Orden v. Dunliam, April T. 1868.

26. A decree in a foreclosure suit for the sale of the premises, where the mortgagor has transferred his estate in the premises previous to the institution of
the suit, and his grantee was not made a party, is void so far as it orders a sale.
Boggs v. Hargrave, 16 Cal. 559.

27. In an action in the District Court against an administrator to foreclose
a mortgage executed by the intestate upon lands belonging to the estate, no
ju ent can be entered up for any deficiency which may remain after the
app 'gfiti((3):1 o't;6t.he proceeds of the sale to the mortgage debt. Pechaud '9'. Bi»qug8. Where defendants claiming adversely are in possession, a decree directin upon the sale (redemption not being made) a conveyance of the fee and a
do ‘very of possession to the purchaser, and conferring upon him, until redemption made, the right to recover the rents, issues and profits of the land,
is erroneous. In such case, the decree must be limited to a sale of the rights
and interests which the mortgagor possessed at the date of his mortgage,
leaving the purchaser to assert his right to the possession, after receiving his
(gllnefzfagleoe, by the ordinary action of ejectment. San Francisco v. Lawton,

. 9.

29. Personal judgment may be taken.—In this State, parties are at liberty to adopt, in the foreclosure of mortgages, the course pursued under the
old chancery_ system, and take a decree adjudging the amount due upon_ the
personal obligation of the mortgagor, and directing a sale of the premises,
and the application of the roceeds to its payment, and apply after sale for
the ascertainment of any de ciency and execution for the same; or they may
take a formal judgment for the amount due in the drst instance. Rowland v.
Leiby, 14 Cal. 156; England v. Lewis et al., 25 Cal. 348. _ _ _

_ 30. Section two hundred and forty-six of the Practice Act authorizes, in
foreclosure suits, a personal 'udgment against the mortga%>r, in addition to
the relief usuall granted, an such personal judgment, w en docketed, becomes a lien. ut the mere contingent provision for execution, in case of
deficiency, etc, does not amount to a personal judgment, and to such provision no edect can be 'ven as a judgment lien until the amount of the defi%ieiic4y0téo be recovered as been ascertained and fixed. Chopin v. Broder, 16

a . .

31. A personal judgment is not a lien, until after sale on the decree,
etc. See ante, § 204, note No. 25.

32.'COll3, counsel feee.—A mo e contained a stipulation for all the
costs of foreclosure, includin counsel ees not exceeding five per cent. of the
amount due. Held, that the limitation of dve per cent. is intended to apply
to counsel fees alone, and that the complainant would be entitled to recover
the whole of his costs by operation of the statute, and inde .ndent of any
tzgpulation. Gronfier v. Minturn, 5 Cal. 492. See Carriers v. inturn, 5 CaL

33. Relief in case of defau1t.—In a foreclosure suit, where judgment is
taken by default, the decree can give no relief beyond that which is demanded
in the bill. Raun v. , 11 Cal. 14.

34. See further ante, § 147, 150.

35. Decree, efeot of-—The foreclosure tea, except in a single instance, only upon the estate or interest which e mortgagor possessed at. the
time, and the sale under the decree passes, with the like exception, only such
estate or interest. The exceptional instances arise where the mortgagor has,
subse uent to the execution of the mortgage, acquired a title which enures by
way 0 estoppel to the benefit of the mortgagee. Insuch case the foreclosure
operates u n the subsequently acquired ti e to the same extent as if originally held y the mortgagor, and the sale under the decree passes it. In all
other cases, the estate mortgaged is the on] estate bro ht under the consideration of the Court, and the only estate ected by its ecree. San Francisco
v. Lawton, 18 Cal. 465.

36. The decree in an action to close a mortgage concludes the rights of all
parties to the action, and the sale under it, consummated by the sheriffs deed,
passes as against them. the entire estate held by the mortgagor at the date of
the mor age. The purchaser, as against such parties, is entitled, upon the receipt of ' deed. to the possession of the premises, and, if necessary. to the
aid of the Court in enforcing its delivery, and his right to this aid is not
affected by the fact that pending the action the plaintifff may have executed to
one of the parties defendant a conveyance of the whole or a portion of the
premises embraced in the decree. Montgomery v. Middlemiss, 21 Cal. 103.

37. Death of mortgagor after decree, edeot o£—Where plaintifffs obtained
a decree in a foreclosure suit against husband and wife, the mortgage being
executed by them, and the decree being in the usual form for the amount due,
sale of the premises, application of the proceeds, and execution against the
property of the husband for any deficiency. and alter the entry of the decree
the husband died: Held, that the laintitfs were entitled to an order of sale
upon the decree, notwithstanding t c death of the husband, but not to execution for any dedciency. Oowell v. Buclcelew, 14 Cal. 640.

38. Where the mortgagor dies after decree of foreclosure entered. and no
administration is had upon his estate, it seems that there is no reason why the
execution of the decree should he stayed. The suit is in the nature of a proceeding in rem. The decree binds the specific property, and the case is within

the reason of the proviso in section 141 of the act concerning the Estates of
Deceased Persons. Nagle v. Macy, 9 Cal. 426.

39. Brroneous or defective, or void decree, how relief from granted.-—
Courts of equity are ever ready to grant relief from sales made upon their
decrees, where there has been irregularity in the proceedings rendering the
title defective, as well when the purchaser or parties interested have been
misled by a mistake of law as to the operation of the decree, as when they
have been misled by a mistake of fact as to the condition of the property. or
the estate sold, provided application be made to them in the suits in which such
decrees are entered, within a reasonable time. and the relief sought will not
agents to the prejudice of the just rights of others. Goodenow v. Ewer, 16

. 461.

40. Plaintin‘ must seek relief from the cons uences of the invalidity of the
decree by roceedings in the foreclosure suit y his act of purchase he has
submitted ' self to the jurisdiction of the Court in that suit as to all matters
connected with the sale, and is entitled to apply for such relief as the facts of
the case may justify. Upon his ap lication, that Court may direct the sale to
be set aside and the satisfaction to canceled; and authorize a supplemental
bill for a resale of the premises, to be died and conducted in the names of the
complainants in that suit for the plaintifffs benedt; and direct that the grantee
of the mortgagor, and any other persons interested in the premises, be brought
in as parties; or it may make such other and diferent order in the matter as
will protect the rights of all parties and mete out exact justice. Boggs v. Hargrave, 16 Cal. 559; Phelan v. Olney, 6 Id. 478.
in41.mIn a case wherg, ‘tinder a decreae of foreclosuiae antic sale,  had come

to e possession o e mortgag premises, an su quen y, on appeal
to the Supreme Court, the decree was reversed, with direction that the sale
under it be set aside; that defendants in the suit be restored to the property

sold, and that the Court below should proceed to dispose of the case in pursuance of the rinciples of the opinion. Raun v. Reynolds, 15 Cal. 468.

42. Where e decree is defective is not designating the defendants who are
personally liable. The proper remedy in such a case is to move to amend the
judgment by suppl ing the omission. Leviston v. Swan, Oct T. 1867.

43. When the tit e of a purchaser at a sale in a foreclosure suit fails on
account of a defect of parties in such suit. he must seek relief by pursuing
the course pointed out in Boggs v. Hargrave, 16 Cal. 566. Barton v. Lies,
21 Cal. 87. See § 12 and Q13.

44. Execution instead of a decree may issue, when.-—In foreclosure
cases, where there is a personal judgment rendered against the defendant,
and also a decree in uitgga'.]warded, the plaintifff may either issue an execution upon his person ju ent or enforce his decree by sale of the property,
but he cannot do both at the same time; and if he issue execution on the personal judgment first, the money realized on it must apply on the judgment,
and sale of the property under the deree afterwards made for the balance,
and so vice versa. England v. Lewis, 25 Cal. 357.

45. In an action to foreclose a mo e under our statute, as well since the
amendments of 1860 and 1861 as be ore, a personal judgment for the debt
secured ma be entered in connection with a decree directing a foreclosure
and sale. his judgment cannot, however, be docketed or become a lien on
other roperty, or authorize the issuance of an execution, until after the sale
is m e and the proceeds applied pro (auto to its satisfaction. Cormerais v.
Genella, 22 Cal. 116.

46. Equity of redemptlon.—The sale of the equity of redemption of
mortgaged premises, and assignment of the rents thereof, until foreclosure
and sale, to a creditor, cannot operate as a fraud upon the mortgagee, whose
rights are secured. and may be enforced by foreclosure. Dewey v. Latson, 6
Cal. 609.

47. The equity of redemption of a subsequent encumbrancer, who has
been made a rty and had his day in Court, 18 by the decree taken away,

leaving only t e statutory right. Montgomery v. Tutt, 11 Cal. 307.

48. Their e uity of redemption from the foreclosure, if not made es,
continues, an they can assert at any time within the period allow by the
Statute of Limitations. Id. '

49. The estate of a mortgagor and of a jpdgment debtor after sale stand

e

upon the same footing, and the insertion in t ecree of a clause foreclosing
the equity of redemption is a useless formula, which cannot enlarge the efect
3f ttfile gegree or any rights of the mortgagee under it. McMillan v. Richards,

0 . 6 .

50. Possibly a Court of ealuity would, under some circumstances, allow a
tenant for years to redeem e premises sold on foreclosure, if he a plied
within a reasonable period after becoming acquainted with the proceegmgs.
Mcbermott v. Burke, 16 Cal. 580.

51. It is error to decree that the sherid‘ should execute a deed to the purchaser on the foreclosure sale, the land sold being subject to redem tion in six
months. But such an error may be amended without depriving the laintilf
_in,foreclosure of the benefit of the decree to which he is entitled. Ifarlan v.
.Smit};, 6 Cal. 173.

52. Where it is found by the Court, in an action brought to redeem, “ that
it was tacitly understood by and between the laintid and wife, and the defendant, that the conveyance made by plain ' to defendant was intended to
secure the repayment to said defendant of the sums paid and advanced by
,him, with interest thereon, and not as an absolute conveyance of the remises,
.and that upon such (payment in gold coin of the United States, said efendant
would reconvey sai premises to the plaintifff or the plaintiffs wife." The
judgment must require the plaintifff to ay the redemption money in gold
coin——not under the provisions of the iiic Contract Act, but upon the

rinciggle “ that he who seeks equity must 0 equity.” Coming v. Rogers, Jan.

. 180 .

53. In an action brought to redeem, no valid objection can be taken to the

judgment in requirin the plaintifff to pay the redemption mone within a
reasonable time after e entry of the decree. An action of this c aracter is
not governed by the provisions of the Practice Act relating to foreclosure of
mortgea It is proper to order that if default be made in the yment of
the emption money, the plaintifff should be barred and force osed of all
equity of redemption to the premises. This judgment is not made at the
time the deed is declared a mortgage, and the grantor is permitted to redeem,
but is made after a default in paying the redemption money, and upon motion
of the opposite party. Id.

54. Proceedings in the nature of a suit to foreclose an e uity of redemption held b a subsequent encumbrancer may be maintain by a purchaser
under the ecree, where such encumbrancer was not made a arty to the original suit to enforce the mo e. Such encumbrancer may go called upon to
assert his ' t by virtue of 's lien, and his equity of redemption, extending
to the peri provided by the Statute of Limitations, be thus reduced to the
statutolri period of six months. Goodenow v. Ewer, 16 Cal. 461. .

55. e nature of the mortgagor’s right to redeem, and of the mortgagee’s
right to foreclose, stated. Id. ’

66. A mortgagor may, in this State, maintain an action to redeem the mortgage. Daubenspeclc v. Plait, 22 Cal. 330.

7. After the execution of a mortgage upon real estate, a judgment was
rendered against the mortgagor, which became a lien upon the mortgaged
property. The mortgagee then foreclosed the mortgage, making the mortggzeslone a party defendant, had the mortgaged npro rty sold under the

, became the purchaser, and obtained a sheri ‘s eed; afterwards the
judgment creditor procured an execution u on his judgment, and had the
gzserty advertised for sale; the holder of t e title under the sheriR"s deed

a bill in equity to enjoin the sale. Held, that he was not entitled to an
injunction, and that the judgment debtor had a right to sell any interest in the
land held by the 'ud ent debtor at the rendition of the judgment or levy of
the execution. dd , further, that the judgment debtor's equitable right of
redemption not having been cut on‘ by the foreclosure, he might, during the
two years that his judgment was a lien upon the premises, sell under an exeecutnon and purchase thel title of the mortgagor; and not on] that he
might assert his right of emption at any time within the period lowed by
the Statute of Limitations, but also he might realize an other benefit or
advantage that mi ht accrue to him from the sale. Aleatan et als. v. Greenwood at aIs., 24 C 506.

58. The mortgagee takes no estate in the land mortgaged. He simply has
a lien upon it for the security of his demand, which can only be enforced by
a judgment for a sale of the property mortgaged and a sale in pursuance of
the judgment. The title of the grantee of mort aged premises is not adected
by a foreclosure and sale in a suit commen after the conveyance b the
rggtrtgragog, "pulses the grantee is made a party to the suit. Bludworth v. Ice,

. . 1 6 .

59. Order of sale, or copy of decree, must issue.—A sherid’ has no
authority to make sale of mortgaged premises under a judgment of foreclosure and sale, unless an order of sale is issued upon the judgment and
placed in his hands. He;/man v. Babcoclc. 30 Cal. 367.

60. If the judgment of a foreclosure gives full directions as to the time,
place, terms, and manner of sale of the mort aged premises, and directs the
sherid’ to make the sale, a certfiled copy of e decree is sufficient authority
for the sherif to sell. Id.

61. A second order of sale may lssue.—-If the first order of sale on a
foreclosure decree be not executed, a second order may issue. Such second
order might in some cases be ground of objection on the score of costs, but it
is not objectionable as atfecting the validity of the sale. Shores v. Scott River
Water 00., 17 Cal. 626.

62. What sherlf must sell.—It is the duty of the sheriff of the county
in which any parcel of the mortgaged premises are situated, to execute the
order of sale, unless the decree contains special directions in that respect. Id.

63. Sale in parcels.-—The well established rules of uity proceedings require in foreclosure cases, not only that the property sho cl be sold in arcels,
but that the property included in the first mlpor-(gage should be exhans before
recourse is hadto the second. Raun v. Rey , 11 Cal. 14; Banal-oft’s Forms,
643; Abb. F. 132-135.

64. What property passes by a sale.-A mortgagor, atter the sale of the
mortgaged premises under a decree in a suit to foreclose the mortgage, has the
ri ht to the use and possession of the mortgaged premises until the execution
o the sheriff ’s deed ; but he possesses no right to despoil the property of its
fixtures. The deed of the sheriff takes effect by relation at the date of the mortgage, and passes fixtures subsequently annexed by the mortgagor. Sands v.
Pfeifer, 10 Cal. 258.

65. The engine and boilers. etc., used in a flour mill, being permanently
fastened to the mill, which had its foundation in the ground : Held, to he fixtures
covered by a mortgage upon the premises. though put up after the execution of
the mortgage ; and held to pass to the purchaser of the mortgaged premises
under a decree of foreclosure. Id.

66. Writ of asslstance.—A writ of assistance is the appropriate remedy to

place the purchaser of mortgaged premises, under a decree of foreclosure, in

ossession, after he has obtained the sheriff's deed. Montgomery v. Tutt, 11
‘al. 190; Wolfv. Fleischaclcer, 5 Id. 244; Reynolds v. Harris, 14 Id. 677.

67. Under our system, the order to deliver possession should be first made,
unless a direction to that effect is contained in the decree ; and if, upon its service, that is disregarded, the Court can at once direct the writ to issue. If
delivery of possession to the purchaser is directed by the decree, no preliminary order will be requisite; but upon proof of disobedience to the decree, the
part will be entitled, as a matter of course, to the writ, as against the defendant n the suit. Id.

68. If a writ of assistance be improperly issued or executed, the Court granting it can, on summary motion, set aside the writ or the service, and restore the
possession. Skinner v. Beatty, 16 Cal. 156.

69. Prima facie. plaintifff in a foreclosure suit is entitled, after sale of the
premises and sheriff ’s deed to him, to a writ of assistance as against the mortgagor and those entering under him subsequent to the decree, if they refuse to
surrender possession. Id.

70. Where. in such case, a writ of assistance is granted, and the mortgagee

. and his wife move to set it aside on the ground that they had moved upon and

occupied the mortgaged premises as a homestead before the execution of the
mortgage by the husband, and continuously ever since, and it appears that the
mortgage was given for the purchase money of the premises, the motion must
be denied, even though the wife was not a party to the foreclosure. Id.

71. L., a married man, purchased certain real estate, subject to a mortgage
thereon, which had been previously executed by his grantor, and soon afterwards died. The mortg ee commenced an action to foreclose the mo ,
making the executors of ., but not the widow, a arty, and after a decree of
foreclosure and sale, and expiration of the time of redemption, received the
sheriff's deed (himself being the purchaser), and thereupon applied to the
Court for a writ of assistance against the widow, who retained possession of a
portion of the premises, which, on demand, she refused to surrender. Held,
on appeal from an order denying the writ, that the denial was pro r; that
the estate conveyed to L. became thereby the common property 0 himself
and wife; that upon his death the title to one half of this property vested in
her. subject only to the mortgage and the lien for the payment of debts; that
this title was not afected by the proceedings in the foreclosure suit to which
she was not a party; and that, not bei bound b the decree, a writ of assistance could not be issued against her. urton v. ies, 21 Cal. 87.

72. All that is requisite to obtain a writ of assistance as against the parties
and those claiming, with notice, under them, after the commencement of the
action, is to furnish to the Court proper evidence of‘ a presentation of the
deed to them and a demand of the ssession, and their refusal to surrender
it. Montgomery v. Middlemiss, 21 C . 103.

73. The purchaser under a decree of foreclosure of a mortgage is entitled to a
writ of assistance, although the decree in the foreclosure action contains no
direction to deliver the possession, and although at the time of the application
nC:))p!'81lXI;f1!18.1'y order for such delivery of possession had been made by the

urt. . ’ ‘

74. A writ of assistance will not be issued against a purchaser of the mortpged premises who buys during the pendency of a suit to foreclose, and who
is not a party to the suit, without actual or constructive notice of its pendency.
Eu-Ian v. Raclcerby, 24 Cal. 561. (a) A person in possession of land where a
writ of restitution is served is presumed to hold under the defendant in the
action, and, to avoid being dispossessed by the writ, must show affirmativel
that he holds b a right independent and paramount. Sampson v. Ofileyer, 2 ’
Cal. 200. (b) €Vbere, pending an action of ejectment against a tenant, the
latter transferred the possession to his landlord, who had actual notice of and
defended the suit, but was not made a party, and plaintifff recovered the judgment: Held. that, under the writ of restitution authorized by the judgment,
landlord might be dis ssessed. Id. (c) In ejectmeut against the occupant
of the premises, a jucgnent of recovery binds not onl the defendant, but all
persons who receive ssession of the premises from im, with actual notice
of the pending suit.  ((1) Persons not parties to a suit in ejectment. and in
possession before and at the time it is brought, or those claiming under them,
cannot be ousted by the writ of restitution issued upon a judgment therein in
favor of the plaintidi Id.

75. Prior to the passage of the Act of May 18th, 1861, Judges of Courts
had no power to issue writs of assistance to place the purchaser of property
sold under a decree of foreclosure in possession of the same. Chapman v.
Thor-nbm-g, 23 Cal. 48.

76. Upon an application for a writ of assistance, to lace a party in apossession of land sold by the sheriff under a judgment or taxes render by
the Justice of the Peace, the applicant must produce in evidence the execution

and the judgment, and proceedings upon which the execution issued. People
v. Doc, 31 Cal. 220.

_ 77. If the Court, in an action to foreclose a mortgage, does not acquire
Jurischction of the person owning the land at the time of the foreclosure, a

writ of assistance a inst the owner or his grantees will be refused. Steinbach
v. Lease, 27 Cal. .

78. See further, §210, note No. 24.

79. Adverse titles cannot be litigated, but must be saved by the
dscree.—Adverse titles to the premises held by parties claiming by conveyznce from the mortgagor prior to the mortgage, or from third parties prior or
Subsequent to the mortgage, are not the papger subjects of determination in
the suit. Such titles must be settled in a ' erent action, giving rise, as they
general! do, to questions of purely legal cognizance. San Francisco v. Law-.
ton. 18 al. 465.

8}). If any of the parties defendant in an action to foreclose a mortgage
diam title to the mortgaged premises, or any portion thereof, adversely to the
title mo ed, their rights under such adverse title should be saved in the
decree. ‘lids V. Verdugo, 27 Cal. 420; San Francisco v. Lawton, 21 Cal. 589.
_ 81. When a party made defendant in a foreclosure suit, as claiming some
Interest in the land, sets up, as a full defense. a tax title, he cannot object

igeégvlards that equity has no jurisdiction over tax titles. Kelsey v. Abbott,
. 609.

82. Title, decree, collaterally attached.-—The title of a purchaser, under
3 Bale on a decree of foreclosure, cannot be impeached in a collateral action
for irregularity in the proceedings on the sale. Nagle v. M , 9 Cal. 426.

83. A decree of foreclosure cannot be impeached co uterall because
Gntered prematurely. The remedy is by direct proceeding in e action.
Alderson v. Bell, 9 Cal. 321; Nagle v. Macy, Id. 429.

34. In an action of ejectment by a purchaser under a decree. in a suit for
foreclosure of a mortgage, to which the mortgagees were parties, against a
Subwquent lessee of the mortgagees, no question can be raised by the defendant as to the due execution of the mortgage. Of this fact the decree in the
foreclosure suit is conclusive. Hayes v. Shattuclc, 21 Cal. 51.
85. See further, § 144, note No. 68.

86. Power of sale in mortgage.—Wbere a mortgage contains a power of
sale, the mortgagee has his election either to foreclose in chancery and obtain
a judicial sale, or to sell under the power. Oormerais v. Genella, 22 Cal. 116.

Segzpost § 260
. Whether a right of redemption exists after a sale under a power contained in a mortgage. Query) d.

88. Where, at a sale under a power contained in a mortgage, the mortgagee
becomes the purchaser indirectly by having the mortgaged premises bid in
for himself, such sale is not thereforee void, but only voidable on the‘ ap licah'on, in e uity, of the mortgagor. The legal title passes by the sale.
by v. Fowcler, 21 Cal. 326.

89. Caveat emptor, doctrine of. ——Tbe doctrine of caveat emptor applies
only to sales made upon valid judgments ; and is usually invoked with reference to sale upon execution a ’ st the general property of a judgment debtor.
In such cases, a defect of ti e is no ground for interference with the sale.
Boggs v. Hargrave, 16 Cal. 564.

90. A valid decree in a mortgage case operates upon such interest as the
mortgagor possessed in the property at the execution of the mort ge. That
interest may not constitute a valid title ; it may not, in fact, be 0 any value,
and the purchaser takes that risk. To that extent the doctrine of caveat em
tor applies, even in those cases. and in all cases of adjudication upon specigc
interests, but no further. The interest specifically subject to sale, whatever
it may be worth, a purchaser is entitled to receive ; it is for that interest he
makes his bid and pays his money. Id.

91. Vendor's lien.—A vendor has a lien on the land sold for the purchase
money, unless he has taken security for its payment, thou h he has executed
the conveyance. Salmon v. Hofman, 2 Cal. 138 ; Hill v. (ghegsby, '32 Cal. 55.

92. And when the vendor has not conveyed the title, his position is analogous to that of a mortgagee. Id.

93. The vendor‘s lien on the land conveyed is not lost by his taking the
notes of the purchaser for the purchase money. And the lien equally exists,
whether the instrument amounts to a conveyance or merely to an executory
contract. Wallcer v. Sedgwiclc, 8 Cal. 398.

94. In a bill in equity to enforce the lien, it is not necessary to allege the
issuance of execution. under .a judgment at law previously obtained by the
vendor against the purchaser for the amount due, and return of nulla bond to
sustain the allegation of insolvency. Id.

95. A vendor's lien does not exist in this State, where a mortgage security
is taken for the purchase money. The silent lieu of the vendor is extinguished
whenever he manifests an intention to abandon or not to look to it. And this
intention is manifested b taking other and inde endent security upon the
same land, or a portion 0 it, or on other land. unt v. Waterman, 12 Cal.
301.

96. The lien which the vendor of real property retains, after an absolute
conveyiihce, for the unpaid purchase money, is not a specific and abaolute
charge upon the gyro rty, but a mere equitable right to resort to it upon failure of payment y t e vendee. Sparks v. Hess, 15 Cal. 186 ; Hill v. Gregsby,

32 Id. 58.
97. The equitable right ma be enforced in the nrst instance, and before

the vendor has exhausted his egal remedy against the personal estate of the
vendee. The Court, after determining the amount of the lien, can, by its
decree, either direct a sale of the property for its satisfaction, and execution
for any deficiency, or award an execution in the first place, and a sale only in
the event of its return unsatisfied. as the justice of the case may require. Id.
98. The execution of two notes for the amount due upon a note and morte, when the mortgage is not canceled, will not defeat an action for the
oreclosure of the same, commenced after the second notes are due and
unpaid. Creary v. Bowers, Jan. 1862. [Not reported.]

99. It could not be a defense that only one note was due, as that would be

sumcient to show a failure of performance. Id.
100. If the mortgage was void, this fact does not invalidate the debt intended to be secured b the mortgage. Shaver v. Bear River and Auburn

Water and Mining 00., 1 Cal. 396.
101. The equitable lien which a vendor of real estate, after an absolute

conveyance, has for the unpaid purchase money, is waived by the taking of a
mortgage to secure the same, although the mortgage is void and cannot be
enforced. Oamden v. Vail, 23 Cal. 633.

102. Generally.-—If, at the time of the execution and delivery of a promissory note, the payor also gives the payee a bill of sale of personal pro rty by
way of mortgage to secure the note. and also deliver possession of t e property, the payor has a right to have the property mortgaged ap lied in satisfaction of the debt; and if the payee sells an of the property, c has a right to
have the proceeds or value applied towar the satisfaction of the debt. McGarvey v. Hall. 23 Cal. 140.

103. A., the owner of a quartz mill in Amador county, executed a mortgage
on the same to B. Afterwards, A. purchased at Sacramento a steam engine
and boiler, and, to secure the purchase money, executed to C. a chattel mortgage on the same, and then transported them to Amador and placed them in
the quartz mill, so that they became a part of the realty. Held, that C.’s
mo e on the steam engine and boiler had priority over the mortgage of B.
T v. Moore, 23 Cal. 208.

104. A. commenced an action against B. on a money demand and to foreclose
a mortgage given to secure his debt. On motion of A. ’s attorney, the prayer

for foreclosure of the mortgge and sale of the pro rty was stricken out and
a mono judment taken. eld, that this was an a donment and waiver of

A.'s rig t to a foreclosure and sale of the mortgaged property. Ladd v. Ruggles, 23 Cal. 232.
105. An action can be maintained by the mortgagee of real estate to recover

damages for wrongful and fraudulent injuries done to the mortgaged rope ,
by which security of the mortgage has been impaired. Robinson v. IE’ :34

Cal. 472.
106. The severance and removal of a house from land covered by a mortgage withdraws the house from the mortgage lien; and after the removal. the
mortgagor or his assignee has a right to sell the house, and the purchaser may
convert it to his own use. Buclcow v. Swift, 27 Cal. 434.

107. The five years of limitation within which an execution for an unsatisfied balance on a foreclosure sale may be taken out, from the date when the
balance was docketed. Bowers v. Crary, 30 Cal. 621.

108. The doclreting of a balance remaining due after sale of mortgaged
property is not an entry of a new judgment for such balance. Id.

§ 247. Disposition of surplus money after sale.
If there be surplus money remaining after payment of the
amount due on the mortgage, lien, or encumbrance with

costs, the Court may cause the same to be paid to the person entitled to it, and in the meantime may direct it to be

deposited in Court.

§ 248. Proceedings when debt falls due at diferent times.

If the debt, for which the mortgage, lien, or encumbrance

is held, be not all due, so soon as suliicient of the property
has been sold to pay the amount due, with costs, the sale

shall cease: and afterwards as often as more becomes due,

for principal or interest, the Court may, on motion, order
more to be sold. But if the property cannot be sold in portions, without injury to the parties, the whole may be ordered
to be sold in the first-instance, and the entire debt and costs
paid, there being a rebate of interest Where such rebate is
proper.
See notes under § 246.

1. When a debt secured is payable in installments, the mortgagee or his as
signee has a right to bring an action to foreclose the mortgage, when the mat
installment falls due and is not paid. Grattan v. .W'zggins, 23 Cal. 16.

2. Where several notes have been given which are secured by one mortgagee,
and the notes are assigned to different persons, and the assignor has a right, by
agreement with the assignees, to fix the rights of the purchasers of the several
notes to the mortgage security. Id.

3. Where, in such a case, the assi nee of one note, having the first right to the
benefit of the mortgaged security, orecloses when the debt falls due, and obtains a decree under which all the mortgaged property is sold, such foreclosure
and sale operate as an extinguishment of the mortgage. .

4. The holders of the other notes secured by the mortgage have a right to
redeem from the sale made under such foreclosure; but when not made, parties
to the action must assert this right to redeem within four years, or it is barred
by the Statute of Limitations. Id.

 

TITLE XXIV.

CHAPTER II.—Actz°ons for nuisance, waste and willful trespass,
in certain cases, on real property.

Stcrxox 249. Nuisance defined, and actions for.
250. Waste, actions for.
251. Trespass for cutting or carrying away trees, etc., actions for.
252. Measure of damages in certain cases under the last section.
253. Damages in actions for forcible entry, etc., may be trebled.

§ 249. Nuisance defined, and actions for.

Anything which is injurious to health, or indecent, or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life
or property, is a nuisance, and the subject of an action. Such
action may be brought by any person whose property is injuriously aifected, or whose personal enjoyment is lessened by
the nuisance ; and by the judgment, the nuisance may be enjoined or abated, as well as damages recovered.
Abb. Forms, 573-681

1. What is N'uieance.—The fact whether a structure was a public nuisance
is a question, not for the Court, but for the jury to decide. Gunter v. Geary, 1
Cal. 467. [Anirmed in People v. Davidson, 30 Id. 383.]

2. It is a public nuisance to erect a house in a highway. Id.

3. A house on lire, or those in the immediate vicinity which serve to communicate the flames, is a nuisance which it is lawful to abate; and the private rights
of the individual yield to considerations of general convenience and the interest
of society. Surocco v. Geary, 3 Cal. 73.

4. The constitutional provision which requires payment for ‘private property taken for public use, does not appl to the destruction 0 a house to
check a conflagration; nor can he who a tea this nuisance be made perso I1"
ally.liab1eIt('pr trespass, unless the act is done without actual or apparent necessi . .

5. eerection of a steam en 'ne and machinery and a grist mill in the
cellar, under an auction store, eld not to be such an injury as to require a
res ' ’ power of the Court; at least, not until the uestion of nuisance
should be determined by a j , and even then the rem y at common law is
adequate. Middleton v. Fran ‘n, 3 Cal. 241.

6. All that part of a bay or river below low water or low tide is a public
highway, common to all citizens, and if any person apprctigriate it to himself
exclusively, (table gsumption is that it "is a ‘detriment to e public. Gunter
v. , 1 . .

7. here plaintiffs mining claim was over-flowed by means of a dam
aected b the defendants. the Court ordered a reduction of the dam so as to
véent e overflow, or if necessary, its entire abatement. Ramsay v. Chand, 0 al. 90.

8. A ditch to carry 03 water rightfully flowing to a mini claim is asmuch
a nuisance as a dam to iiood it. Parlce v. Kilham, 8 Cal. 7 .

9. A person may construct or continue what would otherwise be an actionable nuisance, provided that at the commencement of it no person was in a
condition to be injured by it, or in other words, mere priority, as between

grbners of the soil, gave a superior right. Ibnney v. M incrs’ Ditch 00., 7 Cal.

-10. The diversion of a water-course is aprivate nuisance. Tuolumne Water
Co. v. Chapman, 8 Cal. 397.

11. While a ditch by which the waters of a stream have been appro riated
is out of repair, and not in condition to carry any water, an action ' not lie

to abate as a nuisance a reservoir, constructed across the bed of the stream,

above the head of the ditch, by which the water of the stream is collected and
detained, and caused to how unequally. Bear River and A. W. if: M. 00. v.
Boles ct al.s., 24 Cal. 359.

12. It does not follow as ale 1 conclusion that awharf erected below hi h
water mark in tide waters, an upon the soil thereunder belongin to t e
State, is a public nuisance, or an injury to commerce and navigation. ether
sagcga vgharf is a public nuisance is a question of facts. People v. Davidson,

. 79.

13. Jurisdiction of actions concerning nuisances.—The statute of this
State, dedning what are nuisances, and prescribing a remedy by action, does
not take away any common law remedy in the abatement of the nuisances
which the statute does not embrace. Sfiles v. Laird, 5 Cal. 122.

14. The District Courts have constitutional jurisdiction of cases of nuisance. The grant of such jurisdiction by statute to the County Courts cannot take away the constitutional jurisdiction of the District Courts. Fitzgerald v. Urton, 4 Cal., 235; Courtwright v. E. R. A. Wand M. 00., 30 Cal. 573.

15. Actions to abate nuisances, parties, etc.-—A common nuisance being
deemed an injury to the whole communi , every person in the communi 7 is
supposed to be ag 'eved by it, and has e right to abate it without regar to
the question whet er it is an immediate obstruction or injury to him. A privats nuisance is one which only injures a particular individual or class of
individuals, and can be abated only by him who suifers from it. Gunter v.
Geary, 1 Cal. 462.

16. Actions for the diversion of the waters of ditches are in the nature of
actions for the abatement of nuisances, and may be maintained by tenants in
common in a joint action. Parke v. Kilham, 8 Cal. 77.

17. To entitle a party to an injunction in a case of a nuisance, the injury
to be restrained must be irremediable, and such as cannot be adequately compensated by damages. Middldon v. Franklin, 3 Cal. 241. ,

18. In an action to abate a nuisance damages are only an incident to the
action, and the failure to recover them does not affect the giestion of costs.
Hudson v. Doyle. 6 Cal. 102. Amrmed in Oourtwright v. . R. A. W. All
00., 30 Id. 576.

19. In action of nuisance or trespass the defendant has no rfialsltuto in&nire
icnto thgfaith of the plaintifffs possession. Eberhard v. m ater

0., 4 . .

20. In an action to abate a nuisance caused by the running a ditch for the
conveyance of water across the land of the plaintifff, the defendants set 11
in the answer that it was mineral land belonging to the United States,
that the ditch was for mining pngmses, which allegations were stricken out on
motion of plaintiffs attorney. old, that the were properly stricken out as
irrelevant; for if true, they constituted no de ense to the action. Weimer v.

Imoerg, 11 Cal. 112. .

21. laintiifs owned certain mining claims and %uartz lode, on the banks of
a stream above the mill and dam of defendant. efendant commenced raising his dam two feet higher. Plaintiffs brought suit against defendant, alleging that the addition of two feet to defendant's dam was a nuisance, and
would back the water on to plaintin"s claims, and thus prevent them from
workin them, and would also destroy their water privilege for a quartz mill
which t ey intended to construct. Held, that the action was premature. and
that the demurrer to the complaint on the ground that the complaint did not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, was properly sustained.
Harvey v. Chilton, 11 Cal. 120.

22. An action to abate a nuisance in a highway, by water obstructing the
free use of plaintifff's propert . will lie the same as to abate a nuisance in a
hi hwa by land. Blanc v. lumplce, 29 Cal. 156.

3. a nuisance in a highway onl ah'ect the plaintih‘, in common with the

public at large, in the use of the hig way, he cannot have his private action;

ut if the free use of his private property is interfered with by such nuisance,
he maynhave his private action to abate the same. Id.

24. an action to abate a nuisance, a general verdict in favor of the plaintéfl is; sgmcient to sustain a judgment abating the same. Blood v. Light, 31

. 1 .

25. In an action to abate a nuisance, where the jury render verdict in favor
of plaintifff. and also return special findings not inconsistent with the general
verdict, a judgment abating the nuisance will be sustained. Id.

§ 250. Waste, actions for.

If a. guardian, tenant for life or years, joint tenant, or
tenant in common of real property, commit waste thereon,
any person aggrieved by the waste may bring an action
against him therefore, in which action there may be judgment
for treble damages.

Abb. Forms, 582-588 and 1768.

1. At common law there is no forfeiture of an estate for years for the commission of waste, but it was made so by the statute of 6 Edward I, and it was
expressly confined to the place wherein the waste was committed; but the

gtrétplte (gt California connnes the remedy to triple damages. Ohipman v. Emery.-.,
. 2 3.

2. In an action for waste, when triple damages are given by statute, the

demand for such damages must be expressly inserted in the declaration, which
must either cite the statute, or conclude to the damage of the plaintifff against
the form of the statute. Id..- 5 Cal. 239.

3. Injunctions to restrain injuries in the nature of waste should not be issued
before the hearing of the merits, except in cases of urgent necessity, or when
the subject matter of the complaint is free from controversy, or 1 rable
mischief will be reduced by its continuance. But in all cases where t e right
is doubtful, the ourt should direct a trial at law, and in the meantime grant
a tempera injunction to restrain all injurious proceedings, if there be danger
of irrepara le mischief. Hicks v. Michael, 15 Cal. 116.

4. On application for injunction to restrain waste or mischief analogous to

waste, plnintif ma read affidavits contradicting the answer upon all matters
in controversy, inc uding questions of title. - Id.

§ 251. Trespass for cutting or carrying away trees, etc.,
actions for.

Any person who shall cut down, or carry oif, any wood or
underwood, tree or timber, or girdle or otherwise injure
any tree or timber on the land of another person, or on the
street or highway in front of any person’s house, village
or city lot, or cultivated grounds; or on the commons or
public grounds, of any city or town; or on the street or
highway, in front thereof, without lawful authority, shall be
liable to the owner of such land, or to such city or town, for
treble the amount of damages which may be assessed therefore, in a civil action, in any Court having jurisdiction.

Abb. Forms, 1768.
1. An action may be maintained against a trespasser, who is cutting timber,

as soon as the timber is cut. Sampson v. Hammond, 4 Cal. 184.

2. An injunction will not be dissolved restraining defendants from felling trees,
where the question of boundary is in dispute; especially, where the defendant-’s bond will fully protect the defendant for an delay ‘if it should turn out
that they have the right. Buclcelew v. Estell, 5 Ca . 108.

§ 252. Measure of damages, in certain cases, under the last
section.

Nothing in the last section shall authorize the recovery of
more than the just value of the timber, taken from uncultivated woodland, for the repair of a public highway or
bridge upon the land, or adjoining it.

1. The measure of damages is not the value of the trees as tlrewood, but the
injury done to the land by destroying them, considering the purposes for which
such trees were used or designed, and not according to the speculative or
fancied ideas of the jury. Chipman v. Hibberd, 6 Cal. 162. See also 9 112 and

notes, 34 ct pass-um.

§ 253. Damages in actions for forcible entry, etc., may be
trebled.

If a person recover damages for a forcible or unlawful
entry in or upon, or detention of, any building or any cultivated real property, judgment may be entered for three
times the amount at which the actual damages are assessed.

Abb. Forms, 1768.

1. When treble damages are given by a statute, the demand for such damages
must be expressly inserted in the declaration, which must either recite the
statute. hr conclude to the damage of the plaintiff against the form of a statute.
Ohipman v. Emeric, 5 Cal. 239. But this does not apply to Justices’ Courts ;
see 0'0allaghan v. Booth, 6 Id. 66.

2. If the Court refuses to treble the damages, the plaintifff has an adequate
remedy by appeal, and an application for mandamus to the Court below to
render judgment for treble damages, must be denied. Early v. Mannie, 15 Cal.
149.

TITLE XXV.

CHAPTER III.-—Actz'ons to determine conflicting claims to real
property, and other provisions relating to actions ‘concerning
real estate.

Sxcnox 254. Parties to an action to quiet title.
255. When plaintifff shall not recover costs.
256. If plaint:il1"s title terminates pending the suit, what he
may recover, and how verdict and Judgment to be.
257. When value of improvements shall be allowed as a setpoff.
258. An order may be made to allow a party to survey and
measure the land in dispute.
259. Order, what to contain and how served; if mine
injury done the surveying, to be liable therefore.
A mortgage shall not deemed a conveyance, whatever
its terms.
261. When Court may grant injunction; during foreclosure;
after sale on execution; before conveyance.
262. Damages may be recovered for injury to the possession
after sale and before delivery of possession.
263. Action not to be prejudiced by alienation pending suit.

§ 254. Parties to an action to quiet title.

An action may be brought by any person in possession, by
himself or his tenant, of real property, against any person
who claims an estate or interest therein adverse to him,
for the purpose of determining such adverse claim, estate, or

interest.
Bancroft’s Forms, 537.

1. Construction of this seotlon.—The proceeding by bill in equity.
which an individual is allowed to take to set aside a tent or control its 0
eration, is in the nature of a bill to quiet title—to etermine an estate

adversely to him-—to remove what would otherwise be a cloud upon his own
title; or is in the nature of a bill to enforce a transfer of the interest from the
patentee. on the ground that the latter has, by mistake or fraud, acquired a
title in his own name, which he should in e uity hold for the benefit of the
com.-Elliaint. The individual com laint must t erefore possess a title superior
to t of his adversary, and 0 course to that of the government through
whom his adversary claims, or he must ssess equities which will control
33  in his adversary’s name. Bid Boggs v. Merced Mining 00., 14

2. This section enlarges the class of cases in which equitable relief could
formerly be sought in quietin title. It authorizes the inte osition of equi
i&iaLca2s5e9s where previously b' s of peace would not lie. 'urtis v. Sutter, 1

3. It lies with reference to property of which the plaintifff is in possession;
and where suit is brought under that section to quiet title to a ranch, and

laintid is in possession of a portion only, the suit must be considered as

rought to determine the title to that portion, and no injunction lies to restrain
parties who are entire stran ers to the title from selling that portion, as their
conveyance would not clou plaintifff's title. And if the grantees under such
conveyance should invade the possession of plaintill’, or unlawfully detain the
same, the remedy at law is ample. Id.

4. In such suit the Court, sitting in equi , may direct, when proper, an
issue to be framed upon the pleadings and su mitted to a jury, if questions
of a urely legal character in relation to the title arise. Id.

5. e true test by which the question whether a deed would cast a cloud
upon the title of the plaintifff may be determined is this: would the owner of
the property in an action of ejectment brought by the adverse party, founded
upon the deed, be required to od‘er evidence to defeat a recovery? If such

roof would be necessary the cloud would exist; otherwise not. Pizley v.

uggins, 15 Cal. 128.

6. Mining claims fall within the operation of this section. Me:-cod Mining 00. v. Fremont, 7 Cal. 319.

7. Plaintln’, possession essent1al.—-An action cannot be maintained for
the purpose of determining an adverse claim to, or estate, or interest in real
property, under section two hundred and titty-four of the Practice Act, unless
the plaintifff, at the time of the commencement of the action, is in the actual

ssession of the property himself, or in possession b his tenant. Ferris v.
going, 28 Cal. 645; Lyle v. Rollins at al., 25 Cal. 437. he authoritiesin support of this doctrine are numerous.

8. No matter how such possession was acquired, whether peaceably or forcibly. Reed v. Calderwood, 32 Cal. 109.

9. To maintain asuit to quiet title by a party in possession, it is enough that
he claims under a deed which creates an equitable estate, or even a right of
possession. Smith v. Brannon, 13 Cal. 107. One in possession of property,
claiming title under a sherifs deed, executed on a mor e foreclosure, may
maintain an action to quiet his title against another who c ' s a title against
him, which would be good against the mortgagor, although void as against the
plaintim Horn v. Jones, 28 Cal. 194.

10. Parties defendant.—Any person in possession may bring this action
against any party who claims an estate or interest adverse to him. Merced
Mining Co. v. Fremont, 7 Cal. 319.

11. Under this section, a party in possession of real property may bring a
bill in equity to quiet title against a party out of possession, who claims an
estate or interest adverse to him, without waiting until he has been disturbed
in his possession by legal proceedings against him, in which his title has been
successfully maintained. Id.; Curtis v. Butter, 15 Cal. 259.

12. This section does not confine the remedy to the case of an adverse claimant setting up a legal title, or even an equitable title; but embraces every description of claim whereby the plaintifff might be deprived of the property, or

its title he clouded, or its value he depreciated, or whereby he mi ht be incommoded or damnitled by the assertion of an outstanding title alrca y held, or to

grow out of the adverse retension. Head v. Fordyoe, 17 Cal. 149.

13. An action cannot e maintained under the two hundred and lifty-fourth
section of the Practice Act, by a landlord against his tenant in possession, for
the pa ose of determining the validity of an adverse title set up by the tenant.

Van inlcle v. Hinclcle, 21 CaL 342.

14. Bvidenoe—A person in possession of property in a position to bring
an action, under the two hundred and fifty-fourth section of the Practice Act,
to quiet his title thereto, and on the trial no other evidence on his part than
proof of possession is necessary in the tlrst instance. Ham v. Jones, 28 Cal.

194.
15. In an action brought by one in possession of land, to try and determine

an adverse claim set up by one out of possession, when the complaint avers
that the defendant sets up an adverse claim without stating what it is, and the
answer admits plaintifff ’s possession, and sets up thepartieulars of the defendants’ alleged title, the .burden of proof is cast upon the defendant. Crook v.
Forsyth, 30 Cal. 662.

16. Action to determine an adverse claim to land, the complaint averting
that the plaintifff, who was in possession, dera' ed title through a deed from
G. Answer, that previous to the execution of . ‘a deed, the land was attached
at suit of a creditor of his, and was subse uently in due course sold the
sheriff, at which sale defendant became the purchaser. Replication, t a
portion of the debt on which the attachment issued was secured by a collateral
note, and that the attachment was thereforee void. Held, that on these pleadings, in the absence of proof, judgment was properly entered for defendant;
that if plaintifff had the right to attack the attachment in this form (a point
not decided), the burden of the proof was on him to show that the attachment
debt was collaterally secured. Bostwiclc v. Mc0orlcle, 22 Cal. 669.

- 17. Legal and equitable defenses should not be submitted to a jury
together.—'l‘he equitable defense should be first passed upon by the Court;
and it is irregular to submit to the jury all the legal and equitable defenses

together. Lestrade v. Barth, 19 Cal. 660. .
. 18. In this case, although the matter constitu ' the equitable defense was

submitted to the jury, and a general verdict ren ered for defendant, yet, as
no objection was raised to this course of proceeding, either in the Court
below or here, the irregularity was not considered in the determination of the

appeal. Id.

1 19. Equitable defenses to be passed upon £1rst.—-The equitable defense
is first to be passed u on by the Court, and until it is disposed of the assertion of the legal reme y is in sheet stayed. Upon the determination of the
Court upon the relief rayed by the answer, the necessity of proceeding with
the action at law will spend. When it does roceed, the legal title will control its result. Estrada v. Murphy, 19 Cal. 2 .
20. Parties.—See $6 12, 13.
'21. Complaint.—-See § 39, No. 287.

22. Answer. See § 46, No. 179.

§ 255. When plaintzf shall not recover costs.

If the defendant in such action disclaim in his answer, any
interest or estate in the property, or suffer judgment to be
taken against him without answer, the plaintifff shall not

recover costs.

Abb. Forms, 1083.
1. In‘ an action to quiet title, where defendants disclaim as to a part of the

premises, and as to another part plead that plaintid was not in possession at

the time of the commencement of the action, it is not error to render judgment
against them for costs. Brooks v. Oalderwood, Jan. T. 1868. ’

§ 256. I_fplaintg'f’.s title terminates pending the suits; what
he may recover, and how verdict and judgment to be.

In an action for the recovery of real property, where the
plaintifff shows a right to recover at the time the action was
commenced, but it appears that his right has terminated
during the pendency of the action, the verdict and judgment
shall be according to the fact; and the plaintiti‘ may recover
damages for withholding the property.

Abb. Forms, 1778.

1. Under our Practice Act, if it appear that the  in ejectment had
a right to recover at the commencement of the suit, t that his right has terminated during its pendenc , he cannot recover the possession, but only his
damaggs. Moore v. Tics, 2 Cal. 513.‘

2. e death of the wife, after a suit brought by herself and husband for
the homestead, defeats a recovery by the hue nd, though the right to recover
existed at the commencement of the suit. Gee v. Moore, 14 Cal. 472.

“I3. The defepdaltlnt cannplt prov; ogfthe trial cg an action o1t;a¢;jectmcnt, Jar
epurposeo sowing at 'n' srigto possession termina
that since the action was comnlienced plaintid has conveyed the land to another person, unless the fact of such conveyance has been set up in the original or supplemental answer. Moss v. Shear, 30 Cal. 467. '

4. If the laintin‘ has conveyed the land demanded pending ejectment, the
Court, by e consent of both the plaintifff and vendee, may, under the provisions of the Practice Act, make an order continuing the action in the name
of the original plaintid. Id. ' ‘ '

5. If the plaintiff in ejectment transfers the demanded premises pending
the action, and the Court orders the action continued in the name of the

original plaintim he may recover judgment for both the possession and the
rents and profits. Id. “A

6. The sale and transfer by the plaintid in ejectment of the demanded
premises pending the action, is a transfer of the cause of action within the
meaning of the sixteenth section of the Practice Act, and the action may be
continued in the name of the original plaintiff. Id. §257. When value of improvements shall be allotved as a
set-of.

When damages are claimed for withholding the property
recovered, upon which permanent improvements have been
made by a defendant, or those under whom he claims, holding under color of title adversely to the claims of the plaintid, in good faith, the value of such improvements shall be
allowed as a set-od against such damages.

1. In ejectment, the value of improvemenm, even when defendant holds
under color of title. adversely to plaintiff, can only be allowed as a set-cl to
da es. Youat v. Howell, 1-1 Cal. 464.

2. an action of ejectment, where no proof is introduced to show damage, it is no error to refuse to allow the defendant to rove the value of the

provements made by him on the property. Ford v. gotten, 5 Cal. 319.

' 3. At common law. no allowance was ever made for improvements; and our
Practice Act only permits it to the extent of bei used as a set-off to the
damage for withholding the property recovered. I .

‘ - 4. ejectment, defendant cannot have his improvements set 011' against
the means pronts under section two hundred and fifty-seven of the Practice
Act, where the improvements were made after plaintifffs title accrued, or
where the holdi of the defendant is not adverse within that section. Bay v.
Tape, 18 Cal. 6 . See Love v. Shartaer, 31Ca1. 487.

. 5. A defendant, who entered under a bond for a deed from the plaintiff,
cannot set of his im rovements against the damages for use and occupation.
Kilburn v. Ritchie, 2 al. 145.

6. Where the defendant in ejectment occupied and improved the land bona
jide, under color of title, the improvements erected y him constitute an
e uitable set-oil’, to the extent of their value, to the damages recovered by the
p ' cur for the withholding of ossession. Welch v. Sullivan, 8 Cal. 165.

7. The land owner's right to mages cannot be affected on the ground of
improvements made by e disseizor, unless it a pears that the improvements
were made in good faith. Oarpentier v. Small, ct. '1‘. 1866.

8. Where one, who entered as a naked trespasser, places improvements on
the land, and afterwards buys an undivided interest in an action against him
to recover session of the land by a tenant in common, who owned prior to
the wron ul entry, the defendant cannot set off the value of his improve-ments ainst the damages. Oarpentier v. Mitchell, 29 Cal. 330.

9. A efendant in ejectment, who has made rmanent improvements on

the land in controversy, is not entitled to set 0 the value of those improvements against the damages claimed by the plaintifff unless the improvements
have been madeb him, or those under whom he claims, while holding possession under co or of title adversely to the claims of plaintiff and in good
faith. Love 1. Shartzer, 31 Cal.-188.
a 10. In ejectment b a tenant in common against a co-tenant, who took possession wrongfully, ut afterwards became a co-tenant, plaintiff cannot in
,that action recover damages for the riod whilst the defendant was unlawfully in possession. Carpentier v. endenlmll, 28 Cal. 485.

11. A tenant in common. in ejectment against his co-tenant, cannot in that
action recover damages or means protits, for the period during which the possession of the co-tenant was not adverse. Id.

12. A tenant in common, who is ousted by a co-tenant, may recover dam-ages in ejectment from the time of the ouster, according to his right. Id.

, 13. Limitation of time to recover rents and protits.—In an action to re'cover lands, the plaintifff can recover the rents and pronts for three years only,
prior to the commencement of the action, if the defendant pleads the Statute
of Limitations. Oarpentier v. Mitchell, 29 Cal. 330.
' 14. In an action to recover possession of land and damages for its detention,
if the Statute of Limitations of three years is pleaded as to the damages, the

plaintiff can recover damages for only three years before the commencement
‘of the action. Love v. Shartxer, 31 Cal. 488.

15. The plaintiffin ejectment, if he recover. is entitled todam es, meas.ured by the value of the rents and prodts, up to the time the ju gment is
rendered. Id.

16. Defendant must claim the value of improvements in his answer.
The Court cannot, in an action to recover lands. set off the value of im.provements against the damages, if the defendant does not desire it. Ourpentier v. Gardener, 29 Cal. 160.

, § 258. ‘ Who, when, and how an order may be made to allow a
«party to survey and measure the land in dispute.

The Court in which an action is pending for the recovery
‘ of real property, or a Judge thereof, or a County Judge, may,

on’ motion, upon notice by either party, for good cause shown,
grant an order allowing to such party the right to enter upon
‘the property and make survey and measurement thereof for

‘the purpose of the action.
‘ Amended 1860, 304.

§ 259. Order, what to contain, and how served ; if unnecessary i1y'ury done,‘ the party surveying to be liable therefore.

The order shall describe the property, and a copy thereof
shall be served on the owner or occupant ; and thereupon
such party may enter upon the property, with necessary sur.veyors and assistants and make such survey and measurement : but if any unnecessary injury be done to the prop
_erty, he shall be liable therefore.

§ 260. A mortgage shall not be deemed a conveyance, whatever
its terms.
' .A mortgage of real property shall not be deemed a conveyance, whatever its terms, so as to enable the owner of the
mortgage to recover possession of the real property, without

a foreclosure and sale.

1. This takes from the instrument its common law character, and restricts
itto the purposes of security. It does not, in terms, change the estates at
law of the mortgagor and mortgagee; but, by disabling the owner from entering for condition broken, and restricting his remedy to a foreclosure and sale,
it gives full efect to the equitable doctrine u’ n a consideration of which this
section was evidently drawn. Mchlillan v. ichards, 9 Cal. 365. '

2. The two hundred and sixtieth section of our Practice Act changes this
character of the instrument, and takes from the mortgagee all right to the
possession, either before or after condition broken, and makes the mo!'t858c
a_ mere lien; but this section does not prevent the owner from m ' an
independent contract for the possession, or from authorizi a sale the
premisesi7tgpLIgg9rtgagee, consenting thereto, to pay the de t. Fogarty v.

31. t'l11‘he wordsf“ whatever its tern:1s,;lin this section, wlereeiintielpded to contro e terms 0 grant, bargain’ an e, genera y emp o mortgages,
and do not relate to stipulations for possession or sale. Id?

4. A me e executed prior to the passage of the two hundred and sixtieth
section of the ractice Act, in 1851, was not a conveyance of a conditional
estate to become absolute on a breach of condition, as at common law. SkinMhv.T€uck,g9CiiL athsifrecl f rtga al

. e action or e o osure o a mo ge uponre propertyisnot
brought for the $ssession merely of the roperty, except as such possession
may follow the erifl"s or master's deed, ut to subject to sale the title which
the mortgagor had at the time of executing the mortgage, and to out oh‘ the
rights of parties subsequen becoming interested in the premises; and executors and administrators o not ssess the title, but only a temporary
right to the ‘Session. Burton v. ' 21 Cal. 87.

6. Section of the Practice Act of 1851, which provides that “a mortgage of real property shall not be deemed aconveyance, whatever its terms,"

etc., ap lies to all mortg? as well those executed before as after its

 n v. Wiggins, Cal. 16. See also, Duttan v. Warschauer, 21 Cal. .
. A deed of trust, the trustee not being the creditor, but a thirdparty

given to secure a note, and authorizing the trustee to sell the land at public

auction, and execute to the purchaser a good and sumcient deed of the same,

upon default in  the note or interest. as it falls due, and out of the
proceeds to satisfy e trust generally, and to render the surplus to the

§a33r,2gt6c., is not a mortgage requiring judicial and sale. Koch v. Brigg,

§ 261. When Oourt maygrant injunction during foreclosure
after sale on execution before conveyance. ~

The Court may, by injunction, on good cause shown, restrain the party in possession from doing any act to the
injury of real property during the foreclosure of a mortgage
thereon: or after a sale on execution, before a conveyance.

1. This remedy is only reventive; it is not exclusive of any other remedy.
Bands v. Iffeifer, 10 Cal. .

Q. Theremedybyinjuncticnto restrainthe removaluf nxtures, undersection two hundred and sixty-one of the Practice Act, is only preventive; it is
not exclusive of any other remedy. Id.

§ 262. Damages may be recovered for injury to the possession
after sale and before delivery of possession, who by.

When real property shall have been sold on execution, the
purchaser thereof, or any person who may have succeeded
to his interest, may, after his estate becomes absolute, recover
damages for injury to the property by the tenant in possession, after sale and before possession is delivered under the

conveyance.
Beeanie§246,noteNo. 106.

§'263. Action not to be prejudiced by alienation, pending suit.

An action for the recovery of real property against a person in possession cannot be prejudiced by any alienation

made by such person, either before or after the commencement of the action.

T I T L E X X V I. '
Cnuvrsa IV .—Actions for the partition of real property.

8Ic'nm¢264. 'Whomaybring'actionsfor tion. a
266. Interests of all parties shall set forth in the complaint.
Lieu-holders not of record nqd not be made parties.
Plaintif shall die notice of lie pendants.
Summons shall be directed to all persons interested in
Untkhnfogvn  may be served by publication
e ' tso partiesmay ascertained’ .in eac'n.
%swer of dtetzrlidants, what téae contain.  ho
Parqh 'tion. be _ N‘ be
L1en— 0 rs shall a made parties, or a eree a
2 pointed to ascertain their rights. P274. Lien-h<7_ldt;er(;shallhe nolinedtoappear before the referee
appom
275.‘ The Court may order a sale or partition,and appoint
referees therefore.
276. Partition shall be made according to the rights of the
‘esasdeterminedby thecourt. ~"
277. ereesshallmakeare rtof their proceedings.
278. The Court may set de or amrm report, and enter
éatlidgmentthereon. Uponwhom-judgment to be conusive.
279. Judgment shall not afect tenants for years to the whole

P’°P°""7- . . .
280. Expenses of partition shall be apportioned among the

281. A ‘en onanundivided interestofanypartyshallbea
charge only on the share assigned to such party.
282. Estateforlifeor earsmayhesetofinapartofthe
property not so when not all sold. '
283. Application of proceeds of sale of encumbered‘ roperty.
284. Part holding other securities may be  drst to
285.

 §§

e ust them.
Proceeds at sale, disposition of.

When  into Court, the causes ma be continued for
the on of the claims of e parties.

287 Sales by referees shall be made at ublic auction.

288. Thecourtshalldirectthetermso saleorcredrt.

289. Referees may take securities for purchase money.

290. Tenants whose estate has been sold shall receive coma

nsation.

29]. Thgecourt may ax such compensation.

292. The Court shall protect tenants unknown. -r

293. The Court shall ascertain and secure the value of future

contingent or vested interests.‘
294. Terms of sale shall be made known at the time. Lou
shall be sold separately.

295. Who may not be purchasers.

296. Referees shall make a report of the sale to the Court.

297. ' If conllrmed. conveyances may be executed. ’

298. Proceeding if a lien-holder become a purchaser.

299. Convegces shall he recorded, and will be a bar against

Batman 300. Proceeds of sale belonging to parties unknown shall be
invested for their benefit.
301. Investment shall be made in the name of the clerk of the
county. . . . .
302. When- the interets of the parties are ascertained, securities
shall be taken in their names.
. 303. Duties of the clerk malrin investments. 6 V
304. When unequal partition ordered, compensation may he
adjudged in certain cases.
305. The share of ‘an infant may be paid to his guardian.
306. The guardian of an insane person may receive the proceeds
of su h party’s interest.
307. A gas ian may consent. to partition without action, and
execute releases.
308. Costs of partition a lien upon the shares of the parcenera
309. The Court by consent may appoint a single referee.

§ 264. ‘ Who may bring actions for partition.
2 When several co-tenants hold and are in possession of real

property as parceners‘, joint tenants, or tenants in common,
in which one or more of them have an" estate of inheritance,
or for life or lives, or for years, an action may be brought by
one or more of such persons. for a partition thereof according to the respective rights of the persons interested therein.
and for a sale of such property, ora part thereof, if it appear
that a partition cannot be made Without great prejudice to

the owners. A . p ‘

‘Amended 1854, 90; 1866, 704. . 1. The right of partition existing in the co-tenant may heexercised at any
time, and may result in the loss to the grantee of the particular parcel con‘! ed tohim. Stark v. Barrett, 15 Cal. 361. . '

. One tenantin common out of possession may, in equity, as a collateral
incident to a claim for partition, compel his co-tenant in possession to account
for rents and route received b him from tenantsof the premises. State of
California v. oulterer, 16 Cal. 14.

3. In an action for artition of a water ditch, an account of the proceeds
tor water rates can taken. and if one of the tenants in .common holds a
mortgage on the interests of his co-tenants that can be adjusted in the action
by an application of the proceeds of the mortgagor's interest towards the
pa ent of the same. Brad v. Harlcness, 26 Cal. 69. .

. Two co rations cannot old land together as joint tenants. De Witt Y.
Git cg San mncisco. 2 Cal. 289. . .

5? an action for partition. if the Court duds that the parties hold, and
are in possession of real prope , as joint tenants or as tenants in common,
in which one or more of them ve an estate of inheritance, or for life, or
lives, or for years,.the partition should be made, although the dndin may
also show that the plaintifff. in his complaint. has incorrectly set forth e title
or interest of the parties, or of one or more of themin the land; Delfprey v.
DeUprey, 27 Cal. 331.

6. Parol partition.-—A parol partition of land may he made ‘by co-owners
under the Mexican law, as well as by tenants in common under. the common
law. Long v. Dcltarhtde et al., 24 Cal. 222. ' '

. 7. What oonstitutea.—In order to uphold a parol partition under both
the Spanish and common law, it must satisfactorily appear that there was not

onldy an agreement to make the partition, but that the same was fully executed
an followed up by a several possession, by either the parties themselves or
meir ntees. Id.

8. El“ agreement to establish a partition line between the occu nts of adjoining tracts of land is of no validity, and cannot be enforce , unless the
title to the adjoining tracts has passed from the government and become
vested in the parties by whom the agreement is made. In order to render
such agreement for a partition line efectual, each party must have the title to
and right to dispose of the tract claimed by him; or, in other words, they
must be co-terminous proprietors. Cm-penticr v. Thirston, 24 Cal. 280. 9. A parol partition of land owned by tenant; in common could be made in
California before the adopion of the common law; but the agreement for
such partition should be satisfactorily proved, and each tenant in common
should have assigned to him and enter upon and possess a specinc part of the
land in severalty. Elias v. Verdugo, 27 Cal. 420. '

10. Power of attorney, right to make partition under.—A power 0‘
attorney which authorizes the attorney to sell the lands of the constituen
and to do whatever is necessary to carry the ower into execution, does not
authorize the attorney to make partition of Ian in which the constituent has
an interest as a tenant in common. Borel v. Rollins, 30 Cal. 408.

11. Atnrmance of unauthorized act of attorney in taot.—If an -altcrney in fact, where power does not authorize him to make partition of the
lands of his principal, makes such partition, the principal may afterwards give
em.-ct and confirmation to the partition by the execution of deeds of conveyance. which necessarily recognize the partition as of legal validity. Id.

12. Mining claims.—When a mining claim upon-the public lands is claimed
and possessed by several as joint tenants. tenants in common, or as coparceners,
or even as artners, such several interests or estates are in the nature of an
estate of in eritance, and liable to be partitioned between the several claimunits, the same as other real propertygunliughes v. Devlin, 23 Cal. 501.

13. The mere fact that a mining c ' is owned and worked by several persons as partners, is no valid objection to a partition of the same between the
owners, where the answer does not set up, and it is not shown, that a suit in
equity is necessary to settle the accounts and adjust the business of the partnership; and all the material allegations in a complaint for partition of real

pn perty, which are not denied by the answer, are deemed admitted for the
purpose of the trial. Id.

14. Of water.—Water flowing in a ditch, and owned by tenants in common, cannot be mechanically artitioned. The only partition which a court
can make, which will detinite y and permanently end disputes of tenants in
common in water used for mining p see, is to order a sale and a distribution of the proceeds. L{cG1'1Iivray v. vans, 27 Cal. 96.

15. The object of a partition of the property itself among tenants in common, is to enable each party to obtain the title to and the use for all future
time, inldseveralty, of some dennite portion of the property owned in common. .

§ 265. The interests of all parties shall be set forth in the complaint. ‘ '

The interests of all persons in the property, whether
such persons be known or unknown, shall be set forth in the
complaint specifically and particularly, as far as known to the
plaintifff ; and if one or more of the parties, or the share or
quantity of interest of any of the parties, be unknown to the
plaintifff, or be uncertain or contingent, or the ownership of

the itiheritanece depend upon an executory devise, or- the remainder be a contingent remainder, so that such parties cannot be named, that fact shall be set forth in the complaint.‘

Abb. Harms, 687-688.

1. Complaint in partition.-—A com laint in an action for partition must
aver that the co-tenants hold and are possession of real property as joint
tenants, or as tenants in common, in which props one or more of them
have an estate or inheritance, or for life or lives, or or years; and if these
avenneuts are not made, it does not state facts. sumcient to constitute a cause
of action- Bradley et al. v. Harlcness, 26 Cal. 76.

2. In a complamt to obtain partition of land, a general allegation that
“ the premises cannot be divided mates and bounds without prejudice," is
aumcient, without an allegation o the facts upon which the laintiff is to
ebtaina particular mode of partition. DeUprey v. Delfprey. Cal. 331.

3. A complaint in partition is good which 18 silent upon the subject of the
mode of partition. d.’

4. Tenant in common of of a tract-of land is roper party in a suit for
partition of the whole. v. Salmon, Jul T. 1 ; see ante, § 13. 14, 39;
I00 Duton v. Warschauer. 21 Cal. 609, and way v. Desoto, Id. 191.

§ 266. ‘Lien-holders not of record need not be made parties.

No person having a conveyance of or claiming a lien on
the property, or some part of it, need be made a party to the

action unless such conveyance or lien appear of record.
‘Amended 1866, 704. '

§ 267. ‘Penny shall rile notice of lis pendens.

Immediately after filing the complaint in the District Court,
the plaintifff shall file with the Recorder of. the county or of
the several counties in which the property is situated, either
a copy of such complaint or a notice of the pendency of the
action, containing the names of the parties so far as known,
the object of the action. and a description of the property to
be adected thereby. From the time of the filing, it shall be
deemed notice to all persons.

‘Amended 1866, 705. Abb. Forms, 110.

§ 268. Summons shall be directed to all persons. interested in

the property.

The summons shall be directed to all the joint tenants and
tenants in common, and all persons having any interest in, or
any liens of record by mortgage, judgment, or otherwise, upon
the p_roperty, or upon any particular portion thereof; and
generally, to all persons unknown, who have or claim any

interest in the property.

1. raises to use {or partidon.——A married woman, whose husband Issued
in partition. is a necessary party if she claims a homestead right to or an

intenstin the property indispute. Delfprey v. DeUprey, 27 Cal. 331.

§ 269. Unknown parties may be served by publication.
If a party having a share or interest is unknown, or any

one of the known parties reside out of the State, or cannot

be found therein, and such fact is made to appear by affidavit,
the summons may be served on such absent or unknown
party, by publication, as in other cases. When publication

is made, the summons, as published, shall be accompanied by '
abrief description of the property which is the subject of l

the action.
See § 31.

§ 270. '.AJzswer'of defendants, what to contain.

The defendants who have been personally served‘ with
the summons and a copy of the complaint, orwho shall have
appearedwithout such service, shall set forth in their answers, fully and particularly, the origin, nature, and extent of
their respective interests in the property; and if such defendants claim a lien on the property by mortgage, judgment,
or otherwise, they shall correctly state the original amount
and date of the same, and the true sum remaining due thereon;
also, whether the same has been secured in any other way or
not; and if secured, the nature and extent of such security,

or they shall be deemed to have waived their right to such .

lien.
‘Amended'1866, 705. Abb. Forms, 1079.

1. Guardians ad (item, a pointed to re resent an infant ina case of partition;
have power to defend for e infant sole y against the claim set up for partition
ofathe common estate. Waterman v. Lawrence, 19 Cal. 210.nd h

. The eed1ng' for partition is a special‘ - roceeding, a t e statute pregcribes itspcrgirse and sheet; and though, afterriurisdiction has attached, errors
In the course of the cause cannot be collaterally shown to im ach a judgment,«yet, so far at least as the rights of infants are. involved, e «Court has
no jurisdiction, except over the matter of partition. Id.

_3. In an action ofpartition, a defendant cannot claim that the action be
dulnissedas to him, on the ground that his answer disclaims any interest in
the land, unless he has made the disclaimer in absolute and unconditional
terms. Del)’ v.DeUprey,27Cal.33l. .

4. A defen t in partition is not entitled to have the action » dismissed by
reason of Itge force and chest of any defense which he may set up in his
“SW03. o —- ' 4 —

§ 271. Tlzerighls of all parties may be ascertainedin
The rights of the several parties, plaintili‘s..as well as

defendants, may be put in issue, tried and determined by
such action; and when a sale of the premises is necessary,

the title shall be ascertained by proof to the satisfaction of
the Court, before the judgment of sale shall be made; and

where service of the complaint has been made by publica.
tion, like proof shall be required of the right of the absent
or unknown parties, before such judgment is rendered ; except that where there are several unknown persons having
an interest in the property, their rights may be considered

together in the action, and not as between themselves.
Abb. Forms, 1803-1805.

1. If between the parties to an action for partition disputes exist as to their
right or interest in ap} respect, such disputes may be litigated and determined. Morenhout v. -cguera, 32 Cal. 289.

2. Under our practice, any question affecting the right of the plaintm’ to a
partition, or the ri hts of each and all of the parties in the land, may be put

iéinlissue, tried an determined in such action. De Uprey v. De Uprey, 28
. 331.

3. In a partition suit, if the defendant sets up that he is the sole owner of
the premises, the Court proceeds in one action and determines all the questions at law; and if the decision is favorable to the plaintim then takes up
and disposes of the equitable part of the case; if for the defendant, the tition is denied without any further action. Bollo v. Navarro, Oct. T. 1 67.

4. Title may be tried in an action of partition. Id.

§ 272. ‘Partial partition.

Whenever from any cause it shall have become, in the
opinion of the Court, impracticable or highly inconvenient to
make a complete partition, in the first instance among all the
parties in interest, it shall be lawful for the Court to first
ascertain and determine the shares or interest respectively
held by the original co-tenants, and thereupon to adjudge
and cause a partition to be made, as if such original co-tenants
were the parties and sole parties in interest and the only
parties to the action, and thereafter to proceed in like manner to adjudge and make partition separately of each share
or portion so ascertained and allotted, as between those
claiming under the original tenant to whom the same shall
have been so set apart, or allow them to remain tenants in

common thereof, as they may desire.
‘Amended 1866, 705.

§ 273. ‘Lien-holders shall be made parties, or a referee be appointed to ascertain their rights.

If it shall appear to the Court, by the certificate of the

County Recorder, or County Clerk, or by the sworn or veriilied statement of any person who may have examined or
searched the records, that there are outstanding liens or encumbrances of record upon such real property, or any part
or portion thereof, which existed and were of record at the
time of the commencement of said action, and the persons
holding such» liens are not made parties to the action, the
Court shall either order such persons to be made parties to
the action, by an amendment or supplemental complaint, or
appoint a referee to ascertain whether or not such liens or encumbrances have been paid, or if not paid, what amount remains due thereon, and their order among the liens or in‘
cumbrances severally held by the said persons and the parties to the said action, and whether the amount remaining
due‘ thereon has been secured in any manner, and if secured,
the nature and extent of the security.

‘ mmended 1862, 88.

§ 274. Lien-holders shall be notified to appear before the referee appointed.

’ The plaintifff shall cause a notice to be served a reasonable,
time previous to the day for appearance before the referee
appointed, as provided in the last section, on each person
having outstanding liens of record, who is not a party to the
action, to appear before the referee at a specified time and
place, to make proof by his own aliidavit or otherwise of the
true amount due, or to become" due, contingently or absolutely
thereon. In case such person be absent, or his residence be
unknown, service may be made by publication, or notice to
his agents, under the direction of the Court, in such manner
as may be proper. The report of the referee thereon shall
be made to the Court, and shall be confirmed, modified, or
set aside, and a new reference ordered, as the justice of the
case may require. '

§ 27 5.’ The Court may order a sale or partition and appoint’

referees therefore. V
- If it be alleged in the complaint,‘and be established by

evidence, or if it appear by the evidence without such allegation, in the complaint, to the satisfaction -of the Court, that’

the property, or any part of it, is so situated that partition
cannot be made without great‘ ‘prejudice to the owners, the
Court may order a sale thereof. Otherwise, upon the requisite proofs’ being made, it shall order a ‘partition, according
to the respective rights of the parties, as ascertained by the
Court, and appoint three referees therefore ;' andshall desiga
nate the portion to remain undivided for the owners whose‘

interests remain unknown, or- are not ascertained.
% § W90

§ 276. ‘Partition shall be made according to the rights of the
parties as determined by the Court.

In making the partition the referees shall divide the property and allot the several portions thereof to the respective
parties, quality and quantity relatively considered, according
to the respective rights of the parties as determined by the
Court, pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, designating
the several portions by proper landmarks, and may employ a
surveyor with the necessary assistance to aid them.

‘ Amended 1866, 705.

1. In an action for partition of a water ditch, an account of the proceeds for
water rates can be taken, and if one of the tenants in common holds a mortg
on the interest of his co-tenants, that can be adjusted in the action by an a
cation of the proceeds of the mcrtgagor’s interest towards the payment ct? the
same. ‘Bradley et al. v. Harlcness, 26 Cal. 76.

2. In an action for partition, the laintil cannot foreclose a mortgage which
he holds on defendant’s interest in a property, and cut on’ defendant s equity
of redemption by an absolute sale as in partition. ' Id.

§ 277. Referees shall make a report of their proceedings.

The referees shall make a report of their proceedings,
specifying therein. the manner of executing their trust, describing the property divided, and the shares. allotted to

each party, with a particular description of each share.
Abb. Forms, 1850.

§ 278. ‘The Court may set aside or ajirm the report, and enter
judgment thereupon ; judgment shall be conclusive.

[1867-8.] The Court may condrm‘, change, modify,» or set
aside the report, and, if ‘necessary, appoint new referees.
Upon the report being confirmed, judgment shall be rendered that such partition be effectual forever, which judg-.
ment shall be binding and conclusive:

First-—0n all persons named as parties to the action, and
their legal representatives, who have at the time any interest in the property divided or any part thereof, as owners in
fee or as tenants for life or for years, or as entitled to the
reversion, remainder, or the inheritance of such property,
or of any part thereof, after the determination of a particular estate therein, and who by any contingency may be entitled to a beneficial interest in the property, or who have
an interest in any undivided share thereof as tenants for

years or for life.
Sccond—On all persons interested in the property, who
may be unknown, to whom notice shall have been given of

the action for partition by publication.
TIu'rd—On all other persons claiming from such parties

or persons, or either of them.

And no judgment shall be invalidated by reason of the
decease of any party before final judgment or decree; but
such judgment or decree shall be as conclusive against the
heirs, legal representatives or assigns of such decedent, as
if such iinal judgment were entered before such decease.

‘Amended 1866, 705; 1867-8, 629. Abb. Forms, 1803-1805.

1. Judynent in partition.—— jnd£nent in an action for partition is binding and conclusive as to title, upon the parties who are served with summons or- appear-,and a bar toanew action. Morenlooutv. Higuera, 32 Cal.

89.
8. If the complaint in 'tion avers that a defendant has, or claims to

have, some interest in the d, which interest is unknown to plaintii, and a
summons is served on such defendant, and he fails to ap , and the judgment does not give such defendant any interest, it is res ' icata, and estops
him from recovering in a new action. Id.

3. The etect of a judgment in dpartition is to be determined by our statute,

ndnotbythecommonlaw. I. ,

§ 279. Judgment shall not afect tenants for years to the whole

PT°P¢T‘.VBut such judgment and partition shall not affect tenants for

years less than ten, to the whole of the property which is the
subject of the partition.

§ W. ‘Etparsesqfpartitimz shallbeapportioned among the
The expenses of the referees, including those of asurveyor
and his assistant or assistants, when employed, shall be ascertained and allowed by the Court, and the amount thereof, together with the fees allowed by the Court, in its discretion, to
the referees, shall be apportioned among the different parties
to the action, equitably.

‘Amended 1866, 706.

§ 281. A lien on an undivided interest of any party shall be a
charge only on the share  to such party.

When a lien is on an undivided interest or estate of any of
the parties, such lien, if a partition be made, shall thenceforth
be a charge only on the share assigned to such party ;but such
share shall be first charged with its just proportion of the costs
of the partition, in preference to such lien.

§ 282. Estate jhrli/is or years may beset of in a part of the
property not sold, when not all sold.

When a part of the property only is ordered to be sold, if
there be an estate for life, or years, in an undivided share of

the whole property, such estate may be set off in any part of
the property not ordered to be sold.

§ 283. Application of proceeds of sale of encumbered property.

The proceeds of the sale of the encumbered property shall
be applied under the direction of the Court, as follows:

1st. To pay its just proportion of the general costs of the
action;

2d. '1‘o pay the costs of the reference;

3d. To satisfy and cancel of record the several liens in their

order of priority, by payment of the sums due and to become

due; the amount due to be verified by affidavit at the time of
payment; 4th. The residue among the owners of the property sold,
according to their respective shares therein.

§ 284. Party holding other securities may be required first to
exhaust them.

Whenever any party to an action who holds alien upon the
property, or any part thereof, has other securities for the payment of the amount of such lien, the Court may, in its discretion, order such securities to be exhausted before a distribution

of the pweds of sale, or may order a just deduction to be

made from the amount of the lien on the property, on account
thereof.

§ 285. Proceeds of sale, disposition 

The proceeds of sale and the securities taken by the referees,
or any part thereof, shall be distributed by them to the persons
entitled thereto, whenever the Court so directs. But in case
no direction be given, all such proceeds and securities shall be

paid into Court, or deposited therein, or as directed by the
Court. '

§ 286. When paid into Court, the cause may be continued jinthe determination of the claims of the parties.

When the proceeds of sales of any shares or parcels belonging to persons who are parties to the action, and who are
known, are paid into Court, the action may be continued as
between such parties, for the determination of their respective
claims thereto, which shall be ascertained and adjudged by the
Court. Further testimony may be taken in Court, or by a
referee, at the discretion of the Court, and the Court may, if
necessary, require such parties to present the facts or law in
controversy, by pleadings, as in an original action.

§ 287. Sales by referees shall be made at public auction.

All sales of real property, made by referees under this chapter, shall be made by public auction to the highest bidder,
upon notice published in the manner required for the sale of
real property on execution. The notice shall state the terms
of sale, and if the property or any part of it is to be sold subject to a prior estate, charge or lien, that shall be stated in the
notice.

§ 288. The Court shall direct the terms of sale or credit.

The Court shall, in the order for sale, direct the terms of
credit which may be allowed for the purchase money of any
portion of the premises of which it may direct a sale on credit,
and for that portion of which the purchase money is required,
by the provisions hereinafter contained, to be invested for the
benefit of unknown owners, infants or parties, out of the State.

§ 289. ‘Referees may  securities for purchase money.

The referees may take separate mortgages and other securities for the whole, or convenient portions of the purchase
money of such parts of the property as are directed by the
Court to be sold on credit, for the shares of any known owner
of full age, in the name of such owner; and for the shares of
an infant in the name of the guardian of such infant, and for
other shares, in the name of the Clerk of the county and his
successors in office.

1 Amended 1854, 90.

§ 290. Tenants whose estate has been sold shall receive compensation.

The person entitled to a tenancy for life, or years, whose
estate shall have been sold, shall be entitled to receive such
sum as may be deemed a reasonable satisfaction for such estate,
and which the person so entitled may consent to accept instead
thereof, by an instrument in writing filed with the Clerk of
the Court. Upon the filingof such consent, the Clerk shall
enter the same in the minutes of the Court.

§ 291. The Court may jia: such compensation.

If such consent be not given, filed and entered, as provided
in the last section, at or before a judgment of sale is rendered,
the Court shall ascertain and determine what proportion of the
proceeds of the sale, after deducting expenses, will be a just
and reasonable sum to be allowed on account of such estate;
and shall order the same to be paid to such party, or deposited
in Court for him, as the case may require.

§ 292. The C'ourt shall protecttenants unknown.

If the persons entitled to such estate for life or years be
unknown, the Court shall provide for the protection of their
rights, in the same manner, as far as may be, as if they were

known and had appeared.

§ 293. The Court shall ascertain and secure the value qffidure
contingent or vested interests. '

In all cases of sales when it appears that any person has a
vested or contingent future right or estate in any of the prop

erty sold, the Court shall ascertain and settle the proportional

value of such contingent, or vested right or estate, and shall
direct such proportion of the proceeds of the sale to be invested, secured, or paid over, in such manner as to protect the
rights and interests of the parties.

§294. Terms of sale shall be made known at the time. Lots
shall be sold separately.

In all cases of salesiof property, the terms shall be made
known at the time; and if the premises consist of distinct
farms or lots, they shall be sold separately.

§ 295. lVho may not be purchasers.

Neither of the referees, nor any person for the benefit of
either of them, shall be interested in any purchase; nor shall
a guardian of an infant party be, interested in the purchase. of

any real property, being the subject of the action, except for
the benefit of the infant. All sales contrary to the provisions
of this section shall be void.

§ 296. Referees shall make a report of the sale to the Oourt.

After completing a sale of the property, or any part thereof
ordered to‘ be sold, the referees shall report the same to the
Court, with a description of the different parcels of land sold
to each purchaser; the name of the purchaser; the price paid

for secured; the terms and conditions of the sale; and the

securities, if any, taken. The report shall be filed in the
office of the Clerk of the county where the property is situated.

§ 297. If confirmed, conveyances may be executed.

If the sale be confirmed by the Court, an order shall be entered, directing the referees to execute conveyances and take
securities pursuant to such sale; which they are hereby authorized to do. Such order may also give directions to them

respecting the disposition of the proceeds of the sale.
§ 298. Proceeding if a lien-holder become a purchaser.

When a party entitled to a share of the property, or an
encumbrancer entitled to have his lien paid out of the sale,
becomes a purchaser, the referees may take his receipt for so
much of the proceeds of the sale as belongs to him.

§ 299. Uonveyatzces shall be recorded, and will be a bar against
parties.

The conveyances shall be recorded in the county where the
premises are situated, and shall be a bar against all persons
interested in the property in any way, who shall have been
named as parties in the action; and against all such parties
and persons as were unknown, if the summons have been
served by publication, and against all persons claiming from
them, or either of them.

§ 300. Proceeds of sale belonging to parties unknown shall be
invested for their benefit.

When there are proceeds of a sale belonging to an unknown
owner, or to a person without the State, who has no legal representative within it, the same shall be invested in securities
on interest, for thebenefit of the persons entitled thereto.

§301. Investment shall be in the name of the Clerk of the
county.

When the security of the proceeds of sale is taken, or when

an investment of any such proceeds is made, it shall be done,
except as herein otherwise provided, in the name of the Clerk
of the county where the papers are filed, and his successors in
office, who shall hold the same for the use and benefit of the
parties interested, subject to the order of the Court.

§ 302. When the interests of the parties are ascertained, securities shall be taken in their names.

When security is taken by the referees on a sale, and the
parties interested in such security, by an instrument in writing
under their hands delivered to the referees, agree upon the
shares and proportions to which they are respectively entitled;
or when shares and proportions have been previously adjudged
by the Court, such securities shall be taken in the names of,
and payable to, the parties respectively entitled thereto; and
shall be delivered to such parties upon their receipt therefore.
Such agreement and receipt shall be returned and filed with

the Clerk.
§ 303. Duties of the Clerk making investments.

, The Clerk in whose name a security is taken, or by whom

an investment is made, and his successors in office, shall receive the interest and principal as it becomes due, and apply
and invest the same as the Court may direct; and shall file in
his office all securities taken, and keep an account in a book
provided and kept for that purpose, in the Clerk’s office, free
for inspection by all persons, of investments and monies received by him thereon, and the disposition thereof.

§ 304. ‘ W7zen unequal partition is ordered, compensation may
be adjudged in certain cases.

When it appears that partition cannot be made equal between the parties, according to their respective rights, without
prejudice to the rights and interests of some of them, and a
partition be ordered, the Court may adjudge compensation to
be made by one party to another, on account of the inequality;
but such compensation shall not be required to be made to
others by owners unknown, nor by an infant, unless it shall
appear that such infant has personal property sufficient for that
purpose, and that his interest will be promoted thereby. And
in all cases the Court shall have power to make compensatory
adjustment between the respective parties, according to the
ordinary principles of equity.

‘Amended 1866, 706.

§ 305. The share of an infant may be paid to his guardian.

When the share of an infant is sold, the proceeds of the
sale may be paid by the referee making the sale to his general
guardian, or the special guardian appointed for him in the
action, upon giving the security required by law, or directed
by order of the Court.

§ 306.. The guardian of an insane person may receive the proceeds of such party/’s interest.

The guardian who may be entitled to the custody and management of the estate of an insane person, or other person adjudged incapable of conducting his own affairs, whose interest

in real property shall have been sold, may receive, in behalf
of such person, his share of'the proceeds of such real property’

from the referees, on executing with sufficient sureties, an.

undertaking approved by a Judge of the Court, or by a
County Judge, that he will faithfully discharge the trust reposed in him, and will render a true and just account to the

person entitled, orto his legal representive.

§ 307. A guardian may consent to partition without action,and
execute releases.

The general guardian of an infant, and the guardian entitled to the custody and management of the estate of an
insane person, or other person adjudged incapable of conducting his own affairs, who is interested in real estate held
in joint tenancy, or in common, or in any other manner so as
to authorize his being made a party to an action for the partition thereof, may consent to a partition without action, and
agree upon the share to be set off to such infant or other
person entitled, and may execute a release in his behalf to
the owners of the shares, of the parts to which they may be
respectively entitled, upon an order of the Court.

§ 308. Costsof partition a lien upon the shares of the parceners.

The costs of partition, including fees of referees and other
disbursements, shall be paid by the parties respectively entitled to share in the lands divided, in proportion to their
respective interests therein, and may be included and specified in the judgment. In that case, they shall be a lien on
the several shares, and the judgment may be enforced by execution against such shares, and against other property held
by the respective parties. When, however, a litigation
arises between some of the parties only, the Court may
require the expense of such litigation to be paid by the parties thereto, or any of them.

§ 309. The Court by consent may appoint a single referee.

The Court, with the consent of the parties, may appoint a
single referee, instead of three referees, in the proceedings
under the provisions of this chapter ; and the single referee, ,
when thus appointed, shall have all the powers and perform

all the duties required of the three referees.
See Gray's New York Practice, Special Proceedings.

T I T L E X X V I I .
CHAPTER V.—Actz'ons for the usurpation of an twice or franchise.

Slcnox 310. Action may be brought against any party usurping, etc.,

any office or franc ise.

311. Name of person entitled to office may be set forth in the
complaint; if fees have been received by the usurper,
he maybe arrested.

312. Judgment may determine the rights of both incumbent
and claimant.

313. When rendered in favor of applicant.

314. Damages may be recovered by successful applicant.

315. When severa persons claim the same office, their rights
ma be determined b a single action.

316. II de endant found ' ty, what judgment to be rendered

§ 310. Action may be brought against any party usurping, etc.,
any qfice or franchise.

An action may be brought by the Attorney General in the‘
name of the people of this State, upon his own information,
or upon the complaint of a private party, against any person
who usurps, intrudes into, or unlawfully holds or exercises

any public office, civil or military, or any franchise within
this State. And it shall be the duty of the Attorney General to bring the action, whenever he has reason to believe
that any such office or franchise has been usurped, intruded

into, or unlawfully held or exercised by any person, or when
he is directed to do so by the Governor.

1. G-enera1ly.——-This writ is to prevent the usurpation of any odice, franchise or liberty, as also to ad'ord_a remedy against corporations for a violation
cifctheigzcharters, tending to a forfeiture thereof. Ezparte the Attorney General,

al. .

2. The code rovides a remedy against any person who usurps, intrudes
into or unla holds or receives any public office, civil or military, or any
franchise in the tate. People v. Olds, 3 Cal. 175.

3. The distinction between writs of mandate and quo warranto, as held in
1I'Jdngla7nd, is not abolished by the statutes of this State, but is fully recognized.

I c

4. An information in the nature of a quo warranto is the proper proceeding
to try the title to an oiiice. People v. Scannell, 7 Cal. 439.

5. Que wan-auto lies to test the right of an ap ointee of the board of pilot
commissioners. Palmer v. Woodbury, 14 Cal. 

6. An action under section three hundred and ten of the Practice Act may be
maintained against one in possession of an office to which he has not been duly

o

elected, wh olds a certihcate of election roper in form from the board of
election canvassers. People v. Jones, 20 Ca . 50.

7. Who has jurisdiction to grant the wrlt.—On lpetition of the Attorney General for a writ of quo warranto against a tax co ector: Held, that the
Court had no jurisdiction, and the prayer of the petition was denied. The A1torneyGenera1at rte, lCal. 85.

8. This Court strictly an appellate tribunal, and has no original jurisdiction except in cases of habeas corpus, and co" neatly is not empowered to
issue a writ of quo ioarranto for the purpose of nquiring by what authority a
person exercises the duties of a collector of the foreign license tax.’ Id.

9. The act 'ving jurisdiction over the subject of contested elections to ‘the
Judge of the ounty Court, is constitutional, and District Judges are embraced
within it. Saunders v. Haynes, 13 Cal. 145.

10. This is one of the " special cases,” of which the Constitution provides
that th¢;_dCounty Judge may take cognizance when authorized by the Legislature. .

ll. Intruder, who is;—A person holding a certiilcate of election without
the right and legal title to the office, is an intruder within the meaning of the
act. People v. Jones, 20 Cal. 50.

12. Certificate of eleotion.—'l‘he real ' ht or title to the office comes from
the will of the voters as ex ressed at the e ection. If the odice was in fact
given by the voters to anot er, the possession by the defendant of the certitlcate affords him, at most, but a color of title, and does not invest him with the
right which belongs to another. Id.

13. A certliticatie tigfbelitlaictilciinis éiot necessary to enable a party, claiiningt;
havebeeneecte, r g sac onb wan-unto. Mageev.i9upa-more’ o
Calaveras County. 10 Cal. 376. y W0

14. Such certificate is only facie evidence of title to the odice, not conclusive. Nor is it the only evidence by which the title may be established. It
is the fact of election which gives title to the onion, and this fact may be established, not only without, but against the evidence of the certificate. H.

15. In the case of an election to office by the people, the issuance of a commission is a mere ministerial act. Conger v. Gilmer, 32 Cal. 75.

16. Vacancy, what oonlt:it:ut:ea.—The Constitution itself clearly deduce
the sense of the phrase “vacancy of the officer of Governor,” as used inthe
sixth section, b specidcally enumerating in the succeeding section ‘the ingznces whiclh) evolve‘; the (l1l1t(l398]O§8thB executive, upon the Lieutenantvernor. eople v. ' man 0 a . .

17. Thehiziilige on tlhie part o’f the Controller elect to qualify, creates no vaoancy in o co. . 18. When the Constitution clearly enumerates the events that shall constitute
a vacancy in a particular ofllce, we must suppose all other causes of vacanc
§xclnded, espkegciallgfwhen tlli? 80{I85t1:8llcti0n can lead to no injurious result. I

utseeBroo v. aloney, a. .

19. In determining upon the suniciency of the bond of an officer, and
whether the odlcer, by his failure to comply with the requisition of the supervisors to_ file a new bond, has vacated his since, the supervisors exercise powers
of a judicial character. People v. Supervisors of Marin County. 10 Cal. 344.

20. The provision of the statute organizing Boards of Supervisors, which empowiers tlliem t!oi “require new bonds of any county or township otllicer. Wlallol
add tiona secu ties whenever deem thesamenecesstu-K does not save
exercise of the power to their arb trary discretion. t ’e terms “ whenever
they deem the same necessary,” is meant whenever the judgment pronounces,
ailer an exaliiination of the facts of the case, that there is a necessity for further
security.

21. An order of the supervisors requiring a new bond of an officer, should
specify the ground upon which the order is made; and where the supervisors
of Marin county made an order as follows: “ Ordered, by the Board of Supervisors. that John De Fries, constagle of Sanm Rafael townslgipé file anothtgrobgd.
with two or more some ent sure es with tiiteen days. eld that 0 or
was fatally defective. Id. ’ ,

22. The power to declare an office vacant is vested, under the statute, where
the duty to approve of the bond of the officer is lodged. That duty is imposed

upon the county Judge, and not the supervisors; and where the supervisors of
Marin county declared the ethos of constable vacant, because the constable
failed to comply with their order to file a bond: Held, that they exceeded their
jurisdiction. Id.

23. Appointment to office.-The Boards of Supervisors, in iilling vacancies in office, appoint to office; they do not elect. Conger v. Gilmer, 32 Cal. 75.

24. When complets.—The appointment to office by the Board of Supervisors is not complete until the person appointed has received a certificate of
his election under the seal of the Board. signed by the proper officers of the
Board. An appointment made by a majority pf the Board may be revoked at

any tierrlne IE-l.fore such certlncate is issued, and another person may be appomt .

25. Appointment may be rescinded, when.—An appointment to dll
vacancy in office may be rescinded at any time before the commission or certificate of a pointment has been made out in due form. People v. Gilmer,
Jan. T. 1 ; Conger v. Gilmer, 32 Cal. 75.

26. Who may appoint to office.—An act of the Legislature, authorizing
Boards of Supervisors to appoint a collector of foreign miners’ licenses, is
not unconstitutional. Assessors and tax collectors are constitutional officers;
but it is not necessary, under the thirteenth section of article eleven of the
Constitution, that every portion of the revenue pass thro h their hands.
The Legislature may authorize the tax- ayer to pay his taxes ' ectly into the
treasu . Attorney General v. Squires, 3 Cal. 12.

27. %e sherid‘ being ex oficio tax collector of foreign miners’ licenses by
an act‘ of the Le 'slature, ma be deprived of the oiiice of tax collector before
the iration 0 his term. d.

28. e Legislature, having vested certain duties in a ublic officer, for
whose services compensation is allowed, may take those uties and the fees
from the office, before the expiration of the term, and confer them upon another officer. Id.

29. Smith v. Stillman, decided in 1852 (not reported), to the cheat that after
the Legislature has created an office, contem lated or provided for by the
Constitution, it cannot destroy the office of e incumbent during his term,
overruled. Id.

30. No appointing power in this State can determine conclusively upon the

capacity of the a intee to hold office. That uestion ma be examined in
the Courts. Palvlrigro v. Woodbury, 14 Cal. 43. q y

31. The Board of Pilot Commissioners, under the Act of 1854, as amended
by the Act of 1855, have only the powers conferred by the Act, and must appoint the pilots from the classes of persons named therein. They cannot
appoint a man as (pilot who has not served two years on a pilot boat in the
harbor, or comman ed a vessel in and out of glort for three years. Id.

32 The power to remove is an incident to e power to appoint, as a en3:1” pro -j9t‘1;on, and is made so expressly by the Constitution. Poop v.

33. A law which provides that an oilicer may be removed in a certain way,

or for a certain cause, does not restrain or limit the power of removal to the
cause or manner indicated. Id.

34. When proclamation necessary.—An election to {ill a vacancy caused
by a resignation is a special election, and the Governor's roclamation is
essential to its validity. Westbrook v. Rosborough, 14 Cal. 1 .

35. The office of County Judge is not a “ county office,” within the meanin
of the act entitled “an act to amend an act to regulate elections,” passe
March 23d, 1850; consequently, the Board of Supervisors cannot order a special
election to fill a vacanc in that olllce. P le v. Martin, 12 Cal. 409.

36. An election to iilfa vacancy in the 0 cc of District Jud is invalid, unless made under and in pursuance of the proclamation of the governor. People ea: rel. McKune v. Weller, 11 Cal. 49.

37. The statute requiring the Governor to issue his proclamation of election

to 1111 vacancies in certain offices is mandatory, and an essential prerequisite to
all such elections. Id.

38. The object of the proclamation is to give notice to the electors that such
an election W111 be held. Id.

39. F. was elected. in the month of May. 1857, County Judge of San Mateo
county, in pursuance of the revisions of “ an act to organize and establish
the county of San Mateo.” o proclamation of the Governor was issued calling
this election. At the general election in 1858. in pursuance of the proclamation of the Governor, an election was held for the same office. and T. was
elected. Held, that F. was entitled to the office. People ea: rel. Foo: v. Templeton, 12 Cal. 394.

40. The function of the proclamation is not to proclaim the law. but the fact
of the vacancy. It cannot change either the law or the Constitution. People
ea: rel. Attorney-General v. Burbank, 12 Cal. 378.

41. Election, l:ime.—An ordinance was passed by the Board of Supervisors
of the city and count of Sacramento, June, 1858, relative to the cemetery, in
which it was provide that the Board should appoint a person to superintend
the cemetery “ annually, in October, who shall hold office for the term of one
year,” and. further, that the Board. at their first meeting after the passage of
the ordinance, should appoint a superintendent to hold office “until October
next, and until his successor is appointed and qualified.” Defendant was so
appointed July 8th, 1858 ; and he (1 the office until December, 1859. the Board
having failed to appoint his successor before that time, when relator was appointed. Held. that relator is entitled to the ethos; that the failure to appoint
in October, 1858 and 1859, did not exhaust the power of the electoral body-—
the time named being directory, and not of the essence of the power. Jacob:
v. Murray. 15 Cal. 221.

42. The rule is, that when time is prescribed to a public body in the exercise
of a function in which the public is concerned, the period designated is not of
the essence of the authority, but is a mere directory provision. Id.

43. Where an election for the odlce of District Judge was held by the qualilied electors of such district at the general election in 1858, and the term of the
present incumbent of that onice does not expire until January, 1861 : Held, that
such election was unauthorized, and the person elected is not entitled to a commission to such oliice. People at rel. Brodie v. Weller, 11 Cal. 77. Anirmed in
People V. Burbank, 12 Cal. 378.

44. The statute, so far as it affects the election of 1858, only applies to such
olilces as were to become vacant in January, 1859, and this is evidence as well
as by the terms of the act as the unreasonableness of supposing that the Legislature meant to authorize an election several years in advance of the time when
the office was to be filled. People ex rel. Brodie v. Weller, 11 Cal. 77.

45. An election cannot take place under the Constitution without statutory
regulation. All the efficacy given to the act of casting a ballot is derived from
the law-making power, and through legislative enactments ; and the Legislature must provide for and regulate the conduct of an election, or there can be
none. People ex rel. McKune v. Weller, 11 Cal. 49.

46. What will vitlate an eleot:ion.—The provisions of our statute clearly
indicate that the Legislature did not mean that the returns of a candidate should
be set aside, where an election was held at the proper time and place. and for
the proper officers, unless it affirmatively ap eared that there was such irregularity as affected the result of the election. hipley v. McKune, 12 Cal. 3.52.

47. The failure of the ofllcers conducting an election in a given district to be
sworn as the election laws provide, will not invalidate the entire election without reference to its influence on the general result. Id. '

48. The fact that the ballot-box was temporarily out of the possession of the
olilcers of the election will not invalidate the election, especially where no
fraud, collusion, or suspicious circumstances are shown. Id.

49. The rule is well settled, that the mere receiving and counting votes, improperly given, will not invalidate an election. Id.

50. Where such irregularities have occurred, it rests with the contestant to
show them. The returns are prima facie evidence of the fact they import; and

the r0t0;38d candidate, after being commissioned, is prima facie entitled to the
office. .

51. What is a lucrative office.-—'I'he place of Pilot in the port of San Francisco is an office. Palmer v. Woodbury, 14 Cal. 43.

52. Query: Whether the place or em loyment of Inspector of Customs is a
lucrative odice, under the United Sptates, within the constitution of this
State. Saunders v. Haynes, 13 Cal. 145.

53. The Federal odice of Surveyor General is a “lucrative office," and the
odioe of Controller of State an “ odice of protlt," under the twenty-first section of the fourth article of the Constitution of this State. People ea: rel.
Melony v. Whitman, 10 Cal. 38.

54. Holding office, what const:ltutes.—To constitute the “ holding ” of
an office, within the meaning of the Constitution, there must be the concurrenceteoif tr?! wills—that of the appointing power, and that of the person appom . .

55. It is only in cases where there is no incumbent to hold over that the
law will allow the appointment of the Executive to an the odice. Id.

56. As regards the appointin power, the appointment is complete. when
the commission is duly issued the President, but the person appointed is
required to give bond and take t e oath of odice before he can possess the of These acts constitute a condition precedent to the holding of the office.

57. Who are eligible to oBce.——On the sixteenth day of August, 1867,
A. received from the President of the United States a commission of Surveyor General for the State of California. At a general election held on the
third day of September, 1857, A. and B. were candidates for the onice of
State Controller of the State of California ; A. received the highest number
of votes, but never qualified or claimed the office. On the sixth day of September, 1857, A. gave bond and took the oath of office under the commission
sssurveyor General. and on the ninth day of the same month entered upon
the duties of such office. and on the fifteenth notihed the President of his acceptance of the same. Held, that A. was eligible to the State office when the
votes were cast for him, and was duly elected thereto. The People ex rel. Mev. Whitnmn, 10 Cal. 38. But see Brooks v. Melony 15, Cal. 58.

. There is nothing in the constitution or laws of this State, nor is there
any usuage or custom which requires that a license to practice law from the

Supreme or any other Court, must be obtained before a person can become
eligible to the office of District Attorney. People v. Dorsey, 32 Cal. 296.

59. Term of office.—At the general election held in Yuba county in September, 1855, W. was elected county treasurer of that county for two years
from the date of his election, and until his successor was chosen and qualified.
On the twenty-eighth day of April, 1857, a special act was passed, extending
the term of this officer to the first Monday in January, 1858. On the seventh
of May, 1857, W. resigned, and S. P. W. was appointed by the Board of Snpervisors in his stead. At the general election in September, 1857, F. received
the majority of votes for that office for the unexpired term of W., and claimed
the odice. Held, that the appointee held for the balance of the extended term,
and that there was no vacancy to be filled at the election in September, 1857.
People as rel. Fowler v. Wells, 11 Cal. 329.

60. By the Constitution, Judges of the coun court hold their offices,
when elected, for four years. It is in the power 0 the Legislature in organ or after organizing, a new county, to prescribe the time of elections for
county odicers, and also the riod of the commencement of their terms; but
it is not com etent for the egislature to change the period of the tenure of
the odice of udge of county courts, any more than to change those of Snpreme and District Judges. It is evident, from the terms of this act, that it
was contemplated that these officers-—the Judge among them—should enter
in their offices as soon as the election was announced, or within areasonab s time thereafter. People ea: rel. Foo: v. Templeton, 12 Cal. 394.

61. The Constitution, though it fixes the period of the tenure of the office

of District Judge, does not nx an day for the commencement of the term;

and if it did, it would not follow at it applies to Judges afterwards elected

to new districts, nor would it result that the Judge elected in consequence of a

vacanc was necessarily elected to fill such vacancy. People as rel. Attorney
v. Burbank, 12 Cal. 378.

62. The Legislature can direct the time and prescribe the mode of electin
District Judges, but cannot change the tenure o the office; hence, so much
the act as limited the period of incumbency is void. Id.

63. When the Constitution says the Judge shall hold his odice for six years,
it means that this period of six years is the term of his office; it is that quantum of time assigned to him by the Constitution as his period of the enj¢}yment of the office, and this quantum may not improperly he called a term. » d.

64. All the Constitution means by t e expression “ during the term,” as
used in sections fifteen and sixteen of article sixth, is during the time or period
for which the officer is elected. Id.

65. The Constitution affixes no period of tenure to the allies of tax collector, nor does it provide any mode of appointment. So far as this odice
exists in the incumbent, it is an office created by legislative act. The Legislature may direct how it shall be filled, and how its duties shall be discharged. Attorney General v. Squires, 14 Cal. 12.

66. Where. the appointment to an office is vested in the Governor, with the
advice and consent of the Senate, and the term of the incumbent expires
during the recess of the Senate. the Governor has the right to fill such
vacancy, and his apipointment vests in the appointee the right to hold and discharge the duties 0 such office for the full term, subject only to be defeated
by the izzczifcsloncmrence of the Senate. People ea: rel. Attorney General v. Addison. 10 . .

67. The period of the tenure of a County Judge is fixed by the Constitution
at four years. The Legislature ma fix e commencement of the term, as
also the time of election. Westbroo v. Rosborough, 14 Cal. 180.

68. If the incumbent resigns before the expiration of his term, there is a
vacancy to be tilled by the Governor. His a pointee would hold until the
next general election, or at most, until the q cation of the person elected
by the ‘people. Id.

69. here an act, organizin a county, provides for the election of a County
Judge. and limits the period 0 tenure to two years, the act is void, pro tanto ;
but the election held under the act is good, and entitles the incumbent to the
office for four years. Id.

70. The full term of office of Judge Norton, of the Twelfth District Cour‘.
commenced with his qualification, J anua 2d, 1855, and e ired six ears
thereafter ; and the only election at which '3 successor coul be elec was
the general election in November, 1860. Bro is v. Campbell, 17 Cal. 11.

71. The appointee of the Governor to the 0 cc of County Jud s will hold,
over a person elected to the same office at a special election 0 ered by the
I]:B2orar;1l ogogupervisors of the county. People as rel. Attorney General v. Martin,

72. By the revisions of the Constitution, the manner of electing and the
term of the o cc of Comptroller are the same as that of Governor ; and, canse uently, if the Com troller elect fails to qualif , the incumbent holds over
1111 i1 his successor is e ected and qualined. The eople ea: rel. Melony v. Whilman, 10 Cal. 38.

73. The term of the office of Governor is fixed at two years certain, with a
contingent extension. When this contingency happens, this extension is as
much a part of the entire term as any ortion of the two years. Id.

74. The present incumbent of the oifllce of Comptroller is entitled to hold
the oihce until his successor is elected and qualified ; and such successor may
be elected at the general election of 1856, and when qpalihed, will hold his
oihce for the term of two years and until his successor is qualified. Id.

75. From the time of the assumption of the office, the term of the Judge
elected would legally commence, and terminate at the e iration of four years
from that time. People can rel. Foa: v. Templeton, 12 Cal. 94.

76. A person duly elected Jud of the District Court of this State is
entét£d7tp hold office for the peri of six years. Peopleea: rel. Brodie v. Weller,
11 . .

77. Resignation of om,oe.—-One who has been elected to an onice cannot
resign the same until the time has arrived when he is entitled by law to possess the same, and he has taken the oath and ‘given the required bond, and
entered upon the discharge of its duties. zller v. Board of Supervisors of
Sacramento County, 25 Cal. 97.

78. Judicial officers.—The sherin‘ is not a judicial officer. And though
the omees of sherid’ and tax collector are distinct by the Constitution, yet
tgsy gray be united in the same hands. Attorney General v. Squires, 14

. 1 .
79. It seems the offices of sherif and tax collector are constitutional ofdees. Id. 80. Judge do facto.—One entering into the possession of the office of
Judge of a District Court, by color of right, becomes a J u e de facto. and his
title to the odlce can be questioned only by an action broug t directly for that
purpose. People v. Sawovich, 29 Cal. 480.

§ 311. Name of person entitled to ojice may be set forth in the
complaint ; if fees have been received by the usmper he may be
arrested.

Whenever such action is brought, the Attorney General, in
addition to the statement of the cause of action, may also set
forth in the complaint the name of the person rightly entitled

to the office, with a statement of his right thereto; and in
such case, upon proof by aiiidavit that the defendant has received fees or emoluments belonging to the office, and by
means of his usurpation thereof, an order may be granted
by a Judge of the Supreme Court, or a District Judge, for
the arrest of such defendant, and holding him to bail; and
thereupon he may be arrested, and held to bail, in the same

manner, and with the same effect, and subject to the ‘same
rights and liabilities, as in other civil actions where the defondant is subject to arrest.
Abb. Forms, 42.

1. What are not sumcient allegatlons.—In guo wan-auto to determine
the right to an ofllce, an allegation that defendant 18 in possession of the office without lawful authority, is a sumcient allegation of intrusion and usurpation. Palmer v. Woodbury, 14 Cal. 43.

2. If the com laint be defective in this particular, the defect must be
reached by speci demurrer. Id.

3. In an action by one claiming tohave been elected to an office against his
predecessor. to compel a surrender of the books, papers, etc., belongin to
the office, plaintiff must show facts that a means existed in the 0 cc,
and that he was elected to £11 rt. Doane v. Scamiell, 7 al. 393; Id. 439.

4. Who cannot demur.—-In quo wan-anto for an alleged usurpation of the
office of ilot for the port of ' San Francisco, the complaint avers that defendants he use, exercise, usurp and enjoy the office without a license, and also

certain allegations as to the right of relator to the omee: Held, that these allegations as to relator’s right cannot be reached by general demurrer, the cornplaint being good as against the defendants; that they are not interested in
the question as to the ri ht of relator, but onl in the determination of their
own right to the office. lynn v. Abbott, 16 C . 358.

5. New trial. not authorlzed.—In a special case to contest an election
under the statute, the Coun Court has no wet to grant a new trial, and
an appeal to the Sn reme urt must be en from the judgment, and 3
statement on apg al be made and settled to enable the Stcipreme Court to regiegatlhe goose below outside the judgment roll. asgrave v. Howland,

6. Ineligibility no defensa.—In a roceeding to contest the election of
defendant as District Judge, the ineligi ility of the candidate receiving the
highest number of votes, the defendant being next on the list, is no defense ;
because this matter, if true. could not protect the incumbent from the conse(quencess of an unauthorized possession of the office. Saunders v. Haynes, 13
al. 14 .

7. The fact that the candidate receiving the highest number of votes at

an election by the pie is ineligible does not give the otilce to the next highest on the list. Iciieo

§ 312. Judgment may determine the rights of both incumbent
and claimant.

In every such case, judgment may be rendered upon the
right of the defendant, and also upon the right of the party,
so alleged to be entitled; or only upon the right of the defendant, as justice shall require.
Abb. Forms, 1808-1809.

1. In an action of quo wan-anto to determine the right to an cities where the
relator claims the office as against the incumbent, the Court may not only determine the right of the defendant, but of the relator also ; and if it determine
in favor of the relator, may render judgment that the defendant forthwith deliver
up to the relator the office. People v. Banvard, 27 Cal. 470.

T 2. (ggntestant cannot take judgment by default. Keller v. Chapman, April
. 18 .

§ 313. When rendered in favor of applicant.

If the judgment be rendered upon the right of the person
so alleged to be entitled, and the same be in favor of such

person, he shall be entitled, after taking the oath of office,
and executing such oiiicial bond as may be required by law,
to take upon himself the execution of the office.

§ 314. Damages may be recovered by successful applicant.

If judgment be rendered upon the right of the person so
alleged to be entitled, in favor of such person, he may recover,
by action, the damages which he shall have sustained, by reason of the usurpation of the office by the defendant.

§ 315. When several persons claim the same ojice, their rights
may be determined by a single action.

When several persons claim to be entitled to the same ohice
or franchise, one action may be brought against all such persons, in order to try their respective rights to such oiiice or
franchise.

§ 316. If defendant found guilty, what judgment to be rendered

against him.

When a defendant, against whom such action has i been
brought, is adjudged guilty of usurping or intruding into, or
unlawfully holding any oiiice, franchise, or privilege, judgment
shall be rendered that such defendant be excluded from the
oilice, franchise, or privilege, and that he pay the costs of the
action. The Court may also, in its discretion, impose upon

the defendant a fine not exceeding $5,000; which fine, when '

collected, shall be paid into the treasury of the State.

[In regard to a person holding two or more olllces at the same time, see
People v. Pravines, Oct. T. 1867, where all the authorities are discussed and
many overruled.]

TITLE XXVIII.

Curran VI.— Of actions against steamers, vessels and boats.

Samoa 317. When vessels, etc., shall be liable. Their liabilltes shall
constitute liens.

318. Actions may be brought directly against such vessels, etc.
319. Complaint shall be verilied.

320. Summons may be served on the master, mate, etc.

321. Plaintili‘ may have such vessel, etc., attached.

322. The clerk shall issue the writ of attachment.

323. Such writ shall be directed to the sheriff. Sheriff may

release u on sumcient undertaking.
324. Sherin‘ shal execute such writ without delay.

325. The owner, master, etc., may appear and defend such
vessel.

326. Proceedings in actions under this chapter.

327. After Iatprpzaamuce attachment may, on motion, be disc g .

328. When not discharged, such vessel, etc., may be sold at
public auction. Application of proceeds.

329. Mariners and others may assert their claim for wages,

notwithstanding rior attachment; how enforced.
330 Proof of the claims 0 mariners and others.

331: Sheriff ‘:1 nott1'°ce of sale shall contain measurement, tonnage, e .

332. Appealls arty be taken from proceedings under this
c P I

§317. ‘Whm vessels, ~etc.,‘shall be liable. Their
shall constitute liens.

All steamers, vessels, and boats, shall be liable :

lst. For services rendered on board at the request of, or on
contract with, their respective owners, masters, agents, or
consignees.

2d. For supplies furnished for their use, at the request of
their respective owners, masters, agents, or consignees.

3d. For materials furnished for their construction, repair,
or equipment.

4th. For their wharfage and anchorage within this State.
5th. For non-performance or mal-performance of any contract for the transportation of persons or property made by
their respective owners, masters, agents, or consignees.
6th. For injuries committed by them to persons or property.
The said several causes of action. shall constitute liens upon
all steamers, vessels, and boats, and have priority in their
order herein enumerated, and shall have preference over all
other demands ; provided, such liens shall only continue in

force for the period of one year from the time the cause of

action accrued.
1 Amended 1860, 304. This chapter is applicable to J ustices' Courts.

1. Jurisdictionp-This act, so far as it authorizes actions in rem against
vessels for causes of action desi ted under the fifth subdivision of this sootion, is unconstitutional. The . oses Tlzylor, 4 Wallace U. 8. Rep. 411.

2. The jurisdiction of the Federal Courts in such cases is exclusive. Id.

3. State statutes, which attempt to confer u on State Courts a remedy for
marine torts and marine contracts by procee 'ng strictly in rem, are void.
The Hine v. Trevor, 4 Wallace U. 8. Rep. 556.

4. But this rule does not prevent the seizure and sale, by the State Courts,
of the interest of any owner, or part owner, in a vessel by attachment against
said owner, to recover a debt for which he is personall liable. Id. Nor
does it prevent any action which the common law gives or the obtaining a
judgmelnlt in personam against a party liable in a marine contract, or a marine
tort. .

5. In cases not within the jurisdiction of the Admiralty Courts, there can

be no question that the Legislature may devise or adopt any kind of remedy.

The People v. Steamer America, Jan. T. 1868.

6. A cause of action, to be cognizable in admiralty, whether arising out of
a contract, claim, service or obligation, or liability of any kind, must relate to
the business of commerce and navigation. Id.

7. Harbor commissioners may bring suit under this section in the name of
the people. Id.

8. First subdivision.——A British seaman on board a British vessel of which
a British subject is master, may, when discharged by the master in akport of
‘the United States, without any fault on the part of the seamen, sue r and
recover his wages in a State Court. P h v. Gillam, 1 Cal. 485.

9. If a credit is given for supplies an materials furnished a vessel, the lien

of the Person furnishing the same, for the price thereof, continues on the
vessel or the period of one year from the time the demand falls due. Edgerby
v.8ehooacrSanLorenzo, 29Cal. 418.

10. Sixth subdiv!Iion.—8teamboat companies, in pro ' boats on the
river, must provide all reasonable precaution to protect t e property of others. and they must also be properly used. Carelessness in either particular,

11

resulting to the injury of an innocent paizhwill make the camps liable.
They are bound to temper their care acco ' g to circumstances of e danger. Ger-Ice v. Oalifornia Steam Nav. 00., 9 Cal. 251.

11. Part owners have no lien for advances.—A part owner of a vessel has

no lien on the shares of the other part owners for his advances and disbursements. Sterling v. Hanson, 1 Cal. 480.

12. In actions against boats and vessels, under the statute, the lien attaches
only when service is had in the suit. It was not the intention of the Le s_latsnrcqio msake the lien attach when the liability was incurred. Fisher v. rte,
41 .

13. As soon as a vessel is seized by a Court of Admiral a lien attaches in
favor of the party at whose instance the seizure is made. f it was the intention of the legislature to provide that a lien should only be acquired by attachment, this would virtually be den ' a right to creditors for small sums.
It would be almost impossible for a mere nt or mechanic of small capital or
credit, who had a claim of a few hundred dollars against one of our large

steamers or some seagoing vessel, to ‘vs the necessary bonds to detain her
until his suit could be determined, an in the meantime she might be run of

aid isgéd free of all such debts or encumbrances. Meiggs v. Scannell, 7

§ 318. Actions may be brought directly against such vessels, étc.

Actions for demands arising upon any of the grounds specified in the preceding section may be brought directly
against such steamers, vessels or boats.

§ 319. Complaint shall be verified.

The complaint shall designate the steamer, vessel, or boat
by name, and shall be verified by the oath of the plaintifff, or
some one on his behalf.

§ 320. Summons may be served on the master, mate, etc.

The summons attached to a certified copy of the complaint,
may be served on the master, mate, or any person having

charge of the steamer, vessel, or boat, against which the
action is brought.

1. The rule that requires seizure of the thing togive jurisdiction in actions
is rem, is altered by our statute. Service on a person standing in a articular
relation to the thing confers jurisdiction on the Court from whic rocess
issues. Averill v. Steamer Hartford, 2 Cal. 309; Meiggs v. Scannell, 8 d.408;
Fisher v. White, Id. 422. ,

2. Hence jurisdiction in rem may exist in several Courtsiat the same time. Id.

8. The rule of law that ' ssion of personal pro erty is prima acte
evidence of ownership is ' orm in its application. The question 0 the
 of a vessel forms no exception to the rule. Bailey v. New World,

§ 321. Plaintlf may have vessel, etc., attached.

The plaintifff, at the time of issuing the summons, or at any
time afterwards, may have the steamer, vessel, or boat,
against which the action is brought, with its tackle, apparel,
and furniture, attached as security for the satisfaction of any
judgment that may be recovered therein.

1. In an action against boats and vessels, under the statute, the service of
rocess in the manner prescribed by statute is equivalent to an actual seizure.
’ gs v. Scanncll, 7 Cal. 405.
2. In such actions it is not necessary that the vessel should be attached in
order to acquire a lien as against subsequent purchasers. Id.

§ 322. The Clerk shall issue the writ of attachment.

The Clerk of the Court shall issue a writ of attachment, on
the application of the plaintifff, upon receiving a written undertaking on behalf of the plaintifff, executed by two or more
snllicient sureties, to the effect, that if judgment be rendered
in favor of the steamer_ vessel, or boat, as the case may be,
he will pay all costs and damages that may be awarded
against him, and all damages which may be sustained by such
steamer, vessel, or boat from- the attachment, not exceeding
the sum specified in the undertaking, which shall in no case
be less than five hundred dollars when the attachment is issued against a steamer or vessel, or less than two hundred
dollars when issued against a boat. The undertaking shall be
accompanied by an affidavit of each of the sureties, that he
is a resident and freeholder or householder of the county, and
worth double the amount specified in the undertaking over
and above of his just debts and liabilities. The Clerk
shall file the undertaking and allidavits.

§ 323. Such writ shall be directed to the Sherzf. The Sherzf
may release upon sujieient undertaking.

The writ shall be directed ’.to the Sheriff of the county
within which the steamer, vessel, or boat lies, and direct him
to attach such steamer, vessel, or boat, with its tackle, apparel, and furniture, and keep the same in his custody until
discharged by due course of law; unless the owner, master,
agent or consignee thereof, give him security by the undertaking of at least two sullicient sureties, in an amount sunlcient to satisfy the demand in suit, which shall be specified
in the writ, besides costs; in which case, to take such undertaking.

1. Where a bond was given in a case where the vessel was not liable to be
attached under the statute : Held, that judgment rendered against the principal
and sureties in the bond was erroneous; and that a bond given for the release
of a vessel. when the vessel was not liable to seizure under that act, was invalid. JIcQueen v. The Russell, 1 Cal. 165.
2. When the bond is given the vessel shall be released, leaving the action to

proceed in the same manner against the vessel as if the vessel was not liable. Id.

§ 324. The Sherzf shall execute such writ without delay.

The sheriff to whom the writ is directed and delivered
shall execute the same Without delay, and shall, unless the
undertaking mentioned in the last section be given, attach
and keep in his custody the steamer, vessel, or boat named

therein, with its tackle, apparel and furniture, until discharged
by due course of law; but the Sheriff shall not be authorized

by any such writ to interfere with the discharge of any mer.
chandise on board of such steamer, vessel, or boat, nor with

the removal of any trunks or other property of passengers, ,

or of the captain, mate, seaman, steward, cook, or other persons employed on board.

§ 325. The owner, master, etc., may appear and defend such
vessel.

The owner, master, agent, or consignee of the steamer, vessel, or boat, against which the action is brought, may appear
and answer, or plead to the action; and may except to the
sutliciency of the sureties on the undertaking filed on the
behalf of the plaintifff, and may require sureties to justify, as
in actions against individuals upon bail on arrest.

§ 326. Proceedings in factions under this chapter.

All proceedings in actions under the provisions of this
chapter shall be conducted in the same manner as in actions
against individuals, except as otherwise herein provided: and
in all proceedings subsequent to the complaint, the steamer,
vessel, or boat may be designated as defendant.

§327. After appearance, attachment may, on motion, be discharged.

After the appearance to the action, of the owner, master,
agent, or consignee, the attachment may, on motion, be discharged, in the same manner, and on like terms and condi.

tions, as attachments in other cases, subject to the provisions
of section three hundred and twenty-nine.

1. The Court whose means or final process has made the am actual seizure
of the thing must have exclusive power over its disposal, and the distribution
of the fund arising therefrom; and the judgments of all other Courts, when
pgoperly authenticated and filed in the Court having custody of the fund, must

regarded as com lete adjudications of the subject matter of litigation, and
be entitled to distri ution accordingly. Averill v. Steamer Hartford, 2 Cal. 308.

§ 328. When not discharged, such vessel, etc., may be sold at
public auction; application of the proceeds.

If the attachment be not discharged, and a judgment be
recovered in the action in favor of the plaintifff, and an execution be issued thereon, the Sheriif shall sell at public auction, after publication of notice of such sale for ten days, the
steamer, vessel, or boat, with its tackle, apparel, and furniture,
or such interest therein as may be necessary, and shall apply
the proceeds of sale as follows :

lst. When the action is brought for demands other than
the wages of mariners, boatmen, and others employed in the
service of the steamer, vessel, or boat sold, to the payment
of the amount of such wages, as specified in the execution;

2d. To the payment of the judgment and costs, including
his fees; and,

3d. He shall pay any balance remaining to the owner,
master, agent, or consignee, who may have appeared in the
action; or if there be no appearance, then into Court, subject
to the claim of any party or parties legally entitled thereto.

§ 329. Mariners and others may assert their claim for wages
notwithstanding prior attachment ; how enforced.

Any mariner, boatman, or other person employed in the
service of the steamer, vessel, or boat attached, who may
wish to assert his claim for wages against the same, the
attachments being issued for other (demands) than such
wages, shall file"‘an affidavit of his claim setting forth the
amount and the particular service rendered, with the Clerk
of the Court; and thereafter no attachment shall be dis‘
charged upon filing an undertaking, unless the amount of
such claim, or the amount determined as provided in the next

section, be covered thereby in _addition to the other require- :

ments ; and any execution issued against such steamer, vessel, or boat, upon judgment recovered thereafter, shall direct
the application of the proceeds of any sale: first, to the payment of the amount of such claims filed, or the amount determined, as provided in the next section which the Clerk
shall insert in the writ: and second, to the payment of the
judgment and costs, and Sheriffs fees; and shall direct the
payment of any balance to the owner, master, or consignee
who may have appeared in the action; but if no appearance
by them he made therein, it- shall direct a deposit of the
balance in Court.

§ 330. Proof of the claim of mariners and others.

If the’ claim of the mariner, boatman, or other person, filed
with the Clerk of the Court, as provided in the last section,
be not contested within five days after notice of the filing
thereof by the owner, master, agent, or consignee of the
steamer, vessel, or boat against which the claim is filed, it
shall be deemed admitted; but if contested, the Clerk shall
indorse upon the affidavit thereof a statement that it is contested, and the grounds of the contest; and shall immediately
thereafter order the matter to a single referee for his determination, or he may hear the proofs and determine the matter
himself. a The judgment of the Clerk, or referee, may be (reviewed) by the County Judge either in term or vacation
immediately after the same is given, and the judgment of the:
County Judge shall be final. On the review, the County
Judge may use the minutes of the proofs taken by the Clerk,
or referee, or may take the proofs anew.

1. Where the master of the vessel was in possession, and the record did not
disclose any other owner, the admissions of the master were admissible in

evidence with the same sheet as if the suit had been against the master him- _

self. Bailey v. New World, 2 Cal. 970.

§ 331. Sherzf’.9 notice of sale shall contain measurement, tonnage, etc.
The notice of sale published by the Sheriff shall contain a
statement of the measurement and tonnage of the steamer,

vessel, or boat, and a general description of her condition.

§332. Appeals may be taken from proceedings under this
chapter.

From orders and judgments under this chapter, an appeal
may be taken by the owner, master, agent, or consignee, on
the same terms and conditions as appeals in actions against

individuals.

TITLE‘ XXIX.

or APPEALS IN crvn. ACTIONS.

CHAPTER I.—Appeals in ‘ general.

SEOPION 333. Judgments and orders ma be reviewed.
334. An order made out of ourt, without notice, may be reviewed by the Judge who made it.
335. A party aggrieved may appeal in certain cases.
336. Within what time appeal may be taken.
337. Appeal shall be made by tiling and serving notice thereof.
338. The appellant shall within twenty days prepare statement,
subyect to amendment and settlement.
339. Omission to make statement or amendment according to
preceding section shall be a waiver wereol‘.
340. Tirpe fcgi preparing statements or amendments may be enarg .
341. Authentication of statement.
342. Statement shall be annexed to judgment mil or order
appealed from.
343. Appeals from an order made upon affidavit.
344. On appeal from a judgment, the Court may review intermediate orders.
345. Remedial powers of the appellate Court.
346. Appellate shall furnish requisite papers.

§ 333. ‘Judgments and orders may be reviewed. W

A judgment or order in a civil action, except when expressly made linal by this act, may be reviewed as prescribed
by this title, and not otherwise.

‘Amended 1854, 91.

§ 334. An order made out of Court without notice may be reviewed by the Judge who made it.

(a.) Guru-as or 1861, p. 589,
AaAdtoregulat¢Appea.ln'n0u':8tate. Approved Hay Nth, 1&1.

8lcno1l1.Nod1stinctionastothe modeoftaklngorpertectlng, oruto the
eaeototthem,shallbemadebetweencasesatlawandcueain 0931*’: at theptoviatonl
ottherraottoetctshallapplytnthe samemannertoullcaselolappeal.

An order made out of Court, without notice to the adverse
party, may be vacated or modified, without notice, by the
Judgewho made it; or may be vacated or modified on notice:
in the manner in which other motions are made.

For definition of “judgment” and “order” see ante, § 144, post § 347, and §
515. See post. § ass, 347.

1. The provision made in section one hundred and eighteen, is not a substitution for the power conferred by this section. Borland v. Thornton, 12 Cal.
440. See ante, t 118, note No. 2.

§ 335. A party aggrieved may appeal in certain cases.

Any party aggrieved may appeal in the cases prescribed
in this title. The party appealing shall be known as the
appellant, and the adverse party as the respondent.

1. Where no appeal is allowed by law, the roper method to take a case to
an a pellate court is b writ of error. M‘ dleton v. Gould et al., 5 Cal. 190;
Height v. Gay, 8 CaL 2 .

2 Where an a peal was taken and perfected after the death of the appellant: Held, that t are was no authority for rosecuting the cause in the name
of the deceased, but that all proceedings 3 ould have been stayed until the

executor or administrator could, by suggestion, have been made a party.
Sanchez v. Roachet al., 5 Cal. 248.

8. The husband has not the right of appeal in an action against the husband alone, involving the homestead right; the ju ent could not affect the
question of homestead. Kraemer v. Revallc. 8 Cal. 4.

4. In all cases where an appeal is given by the statute, that remedy is exclusive and must be ptprsued. dHaight tlrl. Gay, 8 Cal.f297.

5. A aggrieve h a ‘n gment as a right o ap a1, althou h he is
nota Pargithe record. yA ms v. Woods, 8Cal. 306. P6 8

6. ere a decree rendered in a suit against a corporation contained a
direction for the sale of the interest of individuals not parties to the suit, and
from such decree the corporation alone appealed: Held, that the corporation
could not take advantage of the error in the decree in embracing individuals.

Dennis v. Table  Water 00., 10 Cal. 369.

7. I. filed his bill in the District Court against T., alleging a partnership
between them, and praying for an account of the partnership property. Subsequentl I. died a etition in the same Court, setting forth the bill, and also
that L. . B. and . B. had obtained judgment against T. the defendant, and
that execution had issued on the judgment, and was levied on the artnershi
property of the laintitf and defendant. and that the sheriff was a out to se
the pro . e petition prayed that L. T. B. and H. B. might be made
parties. an that an injunction might issue against L. T. B. and H. B. and
the sherid. Held, that on the appeal of the case to this Court, it does not lie
in the mouth of I. and T. to say that L. T. B. and H. B. are not parties to
the suit, and have no right of appeal. Jones v. Thompson et al., 12 Cal. 191.

8. The party aggrieved, entitled to a peal within the meaning of the three
hundred and thirty-fifth section of the ractice Act, is the party against whom
an appealable order or judgment has been entered; and when an order is
made directing an injunction upon condition that an undertaking be executed
and filed, the pa:-(‘Z against whom the order is made may appeal at once, without waiting until e injunction has issued. Ely v. Iilrisbie, 17 Cal. 250.

9. When a party is made a defendant in an action and a decree taken
against him, from which he appeals, the ap al will not be dismissed because
as gals 11: aénterest in the subject matter 0 the suit. Riclcetson v. Compton,

10. When an appeal is taken from ajudgment, and the judgment is reversed

by the Supreme Court, with directions to the Court below to enter a judgment in accordance with the opinion, and the Court below renders judgment
accordingly, from which a second appeal is taken, the second appeal will not
be dismissed, on motions, for said reasons, but they may be good grounds for
amrming the judgment. Id. '

11. A judgment will not be reversed because of an error which aiects the
rights of arties who have not appealed, and not those of the appellants.
S erv. hmels, 21 Cal. 280.

1 . The fact that an a pellant has resided out of the State several years, is
no ground for denying im the right to appeal from a judgment rendered
against him. Riclaetson v. Compton, 23 Cal. 636.

13. As to the right of appeal, there is no distinction between judgments by
gefauég and judgments after issue joined and a trial. Halloclc v. J audin, Oct.

. 18 .

§ 336. ‘lwtlzin what time appeal may be taken. (a)

An appeal may be taken :

First—from a final judgment in an action or special proceeding commenced in the Court in which the same is rendered, within one year after the rendition of the judgment.

Second—From a judgment rendered on an appeal from an
inferior Court, within ninety days after the rendition of such
judgment.

Third-—From an order granting or refusing a new trial;
from an order granting or dissolving an injunction ; from an
order refusing to grant or dissolve an injunction ; from
an order dissolving or refusing to dissolve an attachment; from any special order made after final judgment,and from an interlocutory judgment in actions for partition
of real property, within sixty days after the order or interlocutory judgment is made and entered in the minutes of the_

Court.

‘Amended statutes. 1851, 94; 1859, 140; 1863, 756; 1864, 223; 1866, 706. For
deiinition of “ judgment and order.” see ante, $144; post, § 347. See post, 6 347,
for decisions relating to the subject of appeals generally.

1. Notes under first subdivision.—The one year within which toappeal
from a judgment commences to run at the time the Court announces its judgment, and the order for judgment is entered in the minutes, and not at the
time the clerk enters the judgment in the judgment book. Genella v. Relyea,
32 Cal. 159. See ante, § 195, note No. 25.

 

(a) An Act relating to appeal: in partition.

Stones 1. In addition to appeal provided for by section 836 of an act to regulate proceed
ings in civil cases in the courts of justice of this 8ta'e, passed April 29, 1851, an appeal may
be taken from the 1nd ent or decree oi‘ the Court in cases of partition, which determines
the riuht of the severa parties and directs partition to be made; provided that upon the diing the bond mentioned in section 347 01’ an act entitled an act to regulate proceedin in
civilegasea, passedApri129, 1851, all proceeding in the case pendingthe appeal shag he
stay

Statute 1864, 228.

' 2. ‘The question whether an a peal from a judgment should not be taken.

within one year from the time w en the order for judgment is made and entered in the minutes of the Court, discussed. G-ra v. Palmer, 28 Cal. 416.

3. An a peal from a judgment must be taken wi in one year from the time
of its ren ition. The failure of the clerk to enter the judgment in the judgment
hgok at the time it is rendered cannot extend the time within which to appeal.

4. Where an order for judgment has been made and regularly entered by the
clerk in the minutes of the Court, and the judgment has been drawn up in form,
signed by the Judge, and filed with the clerk, final jud ment has been rendered
within the meaning of the terms “rendition of the ju gment,” as used in section three hundred and thirty-six of the Practice Act, and the time for taking an
appeal commences to run. Id.

5. The one year within which an appeal must be taken from a dual judgment,
commences to run from the time judgment is rendered by the Court, and not
from the time it is entered in the judgment book by the clerk. Gray v. Palmer,
28 Cal. 417, amrmed; Peck v. Courtis. 31 Cal. 207.

6. Where an appeal is dismissed for want of a proper bond, and no final judgment has been rendered, an appeal can be taken at any time within the period
allowed by law. Martimz v. Gallardo, 5 Cal. 155.

7. An appeal from an order refusing a new trial, although taken more than
one year after the rendition of judgment, brings up the whole record; and the
Supreme Court, if satisfied that the Court below erred in refusing a new trial,
may reverse the order and grant a new trial, the effect of which will be to
vacate the judgment. Walden v. Murdock, 23 Cal. 540.

8. Notes under second subdivision.—Appeals from an inferior Court must
hemade within ninety days. Dooling v. Moore, 20 Cal. 141.

9. Notes under third subdlvlsion—After appealing from a judgment alone,
a party may appeal from an order overruling a motion for a new trial in the
scanliescéaése, provided the latter appeal is taken in time. Mar:-iou v. Pioche, 8

a . .

10. Where an appeal is taken in the same notice, both from a final judgment and an order refusing a new trial, after six days from the entry of the
order for a new trial, the appeal, so far as the or er is concerned, will on motion be dismissed. Lower v. Know, 10 Cal. 480.

11. An appeal from an order denying a new trial mustbe taken within six
days after the order is made and entered in the minutes of the Court. Pec
v. Vandenberg, 30 Cal. 11; Peck v. Oourlis, 31 Cal. 207 .

12. A arty should appeal, if aggrieved, from an order granting a new trial
during e time allowed by the statute, and cannot, after taking his chances
upona second trial, rely on the fact as error. Brown v. Tblles, 7 Cal. 398.

13. The questions discussed in the opinion as to the time within which
appeals mustbe taken from various orders. Gray v. Palmer. 28 Cal. 416.

14. Where the notice of a peal from an order overruling a motion for new
trial has not been filed Wilgllll sixty days from the entry of the order, the
ap will be dismissed. Towdy v. Ellis, 22 Cal. 650.

5. An order made by the court on a motion is a final adjudication upon
the subject matter, unless appealed within statutory time; nor can the statutory time for appeal be extended by subsequent renewal of the motion, even
if it be varied in its terms, provided it is substantially the same motion. Kiltredge v. Stevens, 23 Cal. 283.

§ 337. Appeal shall be made by filing and serving notice
thereof!“ “ii

(a) Braruru or 1866, 26.

Sac:-row 1. Whenjudgment has been rendered in the court of a Justice of the Peace. in a
County Court, a District Court. or the Superior Court of the city of San Francisco. against
any organized or incorporated city or town in this State. said city or town. or connt.\'.‘I8Iinat
which such judgment was rendered may gpeal therefrom to any Court of compe°ent jurisdiction. by tiling a notice of appeal with c said Justice ofthe Peace orclerk oieither otthe

The appeal shall be made by tiling with the Clerk of the
Court, with whom the judgment or order appealed from is
entered, a notice stating the appeal from the same, or some
specific part thereof, and serving a copy of the notice upon

the adverse party or his attorney.
See note, No. 42, post, $346. Bancroi‘t’s Forms, 484.

1. Where the object of a notice of appeal is accomplished, it is immaterial
whether the notice is given or not. cLcran v. Shartzcr, 5 Cal. 70. Where
both §artie)s appear, no notice whatever is necessary to be shown. Id. See
post 0. 1 . .

2. Notice of appeal.———If there is enough in the notice of appeal to show
that the notice and order contained in the transcript are the same intended to
be appealed from, the a peal will not be dismissed, although the notice may
contain mistakes as to e date of the order or judgment. Flateau v. Lubeck,
24 Cal. 364. The place for assignment of error is in the statement, and not
in the notice of appeal. Burnett v. Pacheco, 27 Cal. 409.

3. When a notice of appeal to the Sn reme Court is signed by an attorney
of the Court, the presum tion is that he had authority to take such action.
Riclcdson v. Compton, 23 al. 636.

4. Respondent filed a notice of motion to dismiss an appeal on the ground
that the notice of appeal was died after’ service, and aaerwards on the same
day made a motion to continue the cause for the term. Held, no waiver of
insumciency of the notice of a peal. James v. W'ilIiam.s, Jan. T. 1866.

5. A notice appealin from a orders made by a Probate Court in the case
on a certain day, is s cient to cover any appealable order made on that day.

mate of Pacheco, 29 Cal. 224.

6. Filing notice of appeal.—The filing of a notice of appeal must precede
or be cotem raneous with the service of a cop of the notice on the adverse
partv. Bufeondeau v. Edmondson, 24 Cal. 94; oston v. Haynes, 31 Cal. 107;
30 Cal. 527; Fey v. Domcc, Oct. T. 1867.

7. A stipulation that no execution shall issue until the determination of the
appeal, is not a waiver of an objection that the notice of appeal was not filed
in season. Moulton v. Elvmaker, 30 Gal. 5:57.

8. Where a notice of appeal to the Supreme Court and undertaking were
filed in the clerk's office on the 16th day of December, and on the next da a
copy of the notice was served on the res ndent, who, within ilve days er
iihng the undertaking, excepted to the su ciency of the sureties to the undertaking: Held, that the respondent was not injured by the failure of the appellant to serve a copy of the notice of appeal on the day the undertaking
was filed. Molcelumne Hill Co. v. lVoodIzury, 10 Cal. 185.

9. The filing of a notice of a peal must precede the filing of the undertaking on appeal. Until an appea 18 taken there is nothing to 've edect to the
ugdparltaking. Buclcholder v. Byers, 10 Cal. 481; amrmed in ooling v. Moore,
1 . 81.

 

Oourts as above mentioned. and serving a copy thereof on the opposite [party or his stirrnsy. within the time and manner provided for appeals in other cases: and said appeals shall
be effectual for all purposes. and shall operate as a supersedeas to any execution that has
been or may be issued on said ju ent without the tiling of a bond or the yment 0!‘

costs to the Justice or other Courts y the said city, or town. or county so ap ing.
B30. 2. The mayor, attorney. or chief oilicer oi’ any city, or district attorney or the prestdent of the board of supervisors of any county, shall have power to give the notice herein
requiredtobegiven, andtoperiect such appeal on behalf of lheirrespectivccorporations

or counties.
(b) 8'ra'ru'rs:a 1861. p. 589, chap. 522.

BIG. 8. No appeal shall be dismissed for insuihciency of the notice of or u ins thereon: provided. that a good and sumcient undertaking. approved y a Judge 0! t
Supreme court. he nled in the Supreme Court beiore the hearing upon motion to dismiss
the appeal, and upon the payment of such reasonable cost as the Court may adjudge: pro.
vided. that the respondent shall not be delayed, but may move when the cause is regularly
called for the disposition or dismissal of the same, it such undertaking be not given.

10. The tiling of a notice of appeal in the Court below, and service of a
copy of the same u n the opposite party, or his attorney. is indispensable
in order to enable e appellate Court to acquire jurisdiction of the cause.
Bond.-xv. Hickman, 29 Cal. 460.

11. When the record shows that a notice of a peal was served on the
respondent's attornzyutlhe same day that it was ed by the clerk, and the
indorsement of the ‘ g precedes the indorsement of admission of service,
325 ignggerence is that the filing preceded the service. Wright v. Ross, 26

12. I f the notice of appealis served on respondents’ attorney, and immediately afteryards died by the clerk, the service and tiling will be regarded as
one act. d.

13. When the record shows that the notice of appeal was filed and served
on the same da , and the indorsements indicate that the notice was first filed
and then serv , it is doubtful whether affidavits can be received to show that
the service preceded the tiling. Id.

14. Amdavits will not be received in the Supreme Court to show that a
notice of gppeal was filed on a diferent day from that stated in the record.
Boston v. aynes, 31 Cal. 107.

15. If an undertaking on ap is filed before the notice of ap al is filed
aagdcsinsebck the appeal will be 'smissed on motion. Oarpentier v. xaiilliamson,

16. An appeal is made by iilin and serving the notice of appeal. Both
requisites must exist to com lete e a peal. A failure to notify the adverse

rty is fatal. Whipley v. ills, 9 Ca . 641.

17. To constitute an appeal there are three things necessary: first, filing the
notice; second, service of the same; and third, filing the undertakin . All of
these steps must be taken within the times limited by the statute. not so
taken, there is no a peal perfected, and this Court has no jurisdiction of the
case. Hastings v. alleclc at al., 10 Cal. 31.

18. An appeal will be dismissed where the notice of appeal has been med
ten da 3 after it was served. James v. Williams, Jan.,T. 1866. ‘

19. e tiling of a notice of appeal must precede the service. Lynch, administrator, v. Dunn, Jan. T. 186 .

20. Serving notice of appeal.—Service of a notice of appeal upon the
opposite attorne is always snmcient. Coulter v Stark, 7 Cal. 244.

21. An appea will be dismissed on motion, if a cop of the notice of appeal
is served on the opposite party before the day on whic the original is filed in
the clerk’s office. Bujfendeau v. Edmondson, 24 Cal. 94.

22. Unless it affirmatively appear in the record that a copy of the notice of
appeal is served on the adverse party, or his attorney, t e Supreme Court
cannot take jurisdiction of the case. H ildreth v. Gwindo-n, 10 Cal. 490.

23. A copy of the notice of appeal filed must be served on the opposite party
before or at the time of tiling the undertaking. The third section 0 the act of
1861. entitled “an act to regulate appeals in this State,” was intended to relieve appellant from defects of form and deficiencies in substance apparent on
the face of notices of appeal. Bufendeau v. Edmondson, 24 Cal. 94.

24. When the notice of appeal has been properly served, whether by personal
or substituted service, the appellant, upon the hearing of the respondent’s
motion to dismiss the appeal on the ground that there is no roof ot service,
or that the proof is defective, may move for leave to supply t e omitted proof.
Upon leave being granted, the appellant may file in the Court below the
requisite affidavit, or otiicial certificate of service, and a certified copy thereof
may be annexed to the record in this Court. This proof may be made and the
certified copy procured before the hearing of the respondent’s motion, when
ilgergz is sufficient time after the defect is discovered. Moore v. Basso, April T.

6 .

25. Proof of service of notlce.—-Service of a notice of appeal may be
proved by the _atildavit of a third person. Id.

26. An acknowledgment of service, indorsed on a notice of appeal, as follows: “ due service of a copy of the within notice is hereby accepted to have

been made this twentieth day of February, l863,” is no waiver of an objection
that service upon the day mentioned is too late. Towdy v. Elia, 22 Cal. 650.
27. An atiidavit of service of a notice of appeal on the respondent’s attorney,
if it does not show a personal service, must state that the notice was left. in his
office with his clerk, or with a person having charge thereof, or that no person
was in the office, and that the notice was left there in a conspicuous place, between the hours of eight in the morning and six in the afternoon. Doll v. Smith,
32 Cal. 475.

§ 338. ‘The appellant shall within twenty days prepare statement, subject to amendment and settlement.

When the party who has the right to appeal wishes a
statement of the case to be annexed to the record of the
judgment or order, he shall, within twenty days after the entry of such judgment or order, prepare such statement, which
shall state specifically the particular errors or grounds upon
which he intends to rely on the appeal, and shall contain so
much of the evidence as may be necessary to explain the
particular errors or grounds specified, and no more, and shall
serve a copy thereof upon the adverse party. The respondent may, within five days thereafter, prepare amendments to
the statement, and serve a copy on the appellant. The statement and amendments which may be served shall be presented to the Judge who tried or heard the case, upon notice
of two days to the respondent, and a true statement shall
thereupon be settled by such Judge. If no amendments are

served, the statement may be presented to the Judge for

settlement without any notice to the respondent.
1Amended statute, 1863, 644.

1. Statement must be filed within twenty days.—-Where a statement, to
be used on appeal, is not filed within twenty days after judgment, it cannot be
regarded, and the case will be determined on the judgment roll alone. Macomber v. Chamberlain, 8 Cal. 322; Tajerty v. Brownies, 11 Id. 132; Heihn v.
Stansburg. 1214. 412; McIntyre v. Willis, Jan. '1‘. 1862.

2. Moving for a new trial does not of itself operate to extend the time for
filing a statement on appeal from the judgment. And where a judgment was
rendered July 27th, 1859, and motion for new trial overruled October 22d. 1859.
a statement on a peal served November 10th, 1859, was not in time. Mahoney
v. Ca , 15 al. 313.

3. f the party who appeals from a judgment does not file and serves
statement on appeal within twenty days from the entry of the ajuggment, his

. 18;

right to make a statement is waived. Ryan v. Daugherty, 30 C Harper
v. Minor, 27 Cal. 109.

4. Time to file maybe en1arged.—See post, 6 340.

5. Rules to be observed in the preparation of a statement on appeal.-—As will be seen by referring to the amendment indicated of 1864, it is
not necessary in all cases to bring up the entire judgment roll. In this case.
the original pleadings and summons might have been omitted, as no question
arises on them. The amended complaint and answer thereto formed the

issues tried. It is sufficient, when the style of the court and title of the
cause is ‘van in the first paper, to afterward give the name of the document,
and at e head say, “title of cause;" and where a pa ris verified or acknowledged, to safy “ duly verined," or “ duly acknowle ed.” The date of

the paper, date 0 tiling, date of service, etc.—the rest may with advanage
be omitted. Man-iner v. Smith. 27 Cal. 654.

6. But the transcript should always contain enough of the record of the
Court below to fully present the question, and show the materiality of the
point relied on to reverse the judgment or order; and generally, whenever a

leading or other paper has been necessarily used on the hearing of the Court

ow, a copy of the pleading or an agreed statement of the contents of so

much, at least, as is re evant to the point in issue, should be furnished in the
transcript McQuade v. Whaley, 29 Cal. 614.

7.~The statement on a pea! should contain only such orders and rulings as
the appellant desires to ave reviewed, and the facts necessary to explain the
action of the Court below thereon. Harper v. Minor. 27 Cal. 107.

8. Pleadinssr-Attorneys may agree as to the contents of the pleadin ,
and introduce into the transom t such agreement, instead of printing e

entire pleadings. [This course s ould be pursued in all cases where no point
is made on them.] McQuade v. Whaley, 29 CaL 612.

9. Statement to review questions of law arising during the trlal.—
An appellant who does not wish to raise any question in the appellate Court
as to the sumciency of the evidence, may have questions of law arising in
the progress of the trial reviewed by making a statement of such ruling, with
suiiicient evidence to show their materiality, or may embody them in a bill of
exceptions, and in this way have them reviewed on appeal from the judgment.
Harper v. Minor, 27 Cal. 109.

10. Where there is no controversy as to any material fact, and the action of
the Court below is sought to be reviewed on questions of law alone, a statement on appeal is not only a proper method, but is often the most convenient,
expeditious and economical mode of brin ' the alleged errors before the
Sn me Court. Treadwell v. Davis, April T. 868.

1. 8tatement.—When an appeal is taken from an order made u n
other evidence, either alone or in connection with affidavits, much of it o ten
consists of documents not filed, judgment rolls and files in other cases, which
are not and cannot be made a part of the files in the case heard. Questions
of admissibility of evidence, etc., may arise. A convenient way of makin
so much of these as is necessary, to present the legal points contested a part 0
the record, is statement, and that method is accordingly adopted, and no
otheris rovid . Haggin v. Clark, 28 Cal. 162. See also Abbott v. Douglass,
28 Cal. ; Hutton v. Reed, 25 Id. 479; Harper v. Minor, 27 Id. 107, for the

reasons for adopting this mode of making statements. Wetherbee v. Davis,
Oct. T. 1867.

12. Statement, intermediate orders.——If the appellant desire to have
any intermediate orders, not forming a part of the judgment roll, reviewed
on an appeal from a judgment, he must bring them into the record
by means of a statement, together with such facts forming the basis of

the orders as are necessary to explain the action of the Court below. Homer
v. Minor, 27 Cal. 109.

13. When a notice of motion to dismissa complaint on specined grounds is
tglilgeln, to obtain a review of the order made on the motion, the record must

' ose the pers read or the evidence ofered in their support. Freebom d:
Goodwin v. lazer, 10 CaL 337.

14. When the transcript consists of the pleadings, several affidavits, and
memoranda of exceptions taken in the progress of a cause, and signed by the
Judge, stating that certain motions were made on the one side u n affidavits,
and resisted on the other, together with the rulings of the ourt and the
exceptions of counsel, but containing nothing which identifies the affidavits
in the transcript as those upon which the motions were made, or which enables this Court to determine the correctness of the rulings below. Held, that

the orders cannotbe brought up for review on appeal from a final judgment in
this way. Stone v. Stone, 17 Cal. 513.

15. A re _ statement must in such case be repared according to the
statute, em racing so much of the affidavits or evi ence upon which the rulings were bad as to explain and point the exceptions taken; and the memoranda of exceptions signed by the Judge in the progress of the cause servo
only to secure accuracy in the statement. Id.

16. Specification of grounds of error.—If on appeal from an order. made
after judgment, the statement contains facts outside the record and affidavits,
it should s efify the grounds upon which appellant will rely. Lqjingwell v.

' , 29 s . 192.

17. n an appeal from an order, made after final judgment, if appellant makes
a statement, and relies u on it in the appellate Court, the statement must contain the grounds upon w ich appellant intends to rely on appeal, or it will be
disregarded. Haggin V. Clark, 28 Cal. 162.

18. A statement on appeal must specify the grounds on which the appellant
relies. The questions of law and facts raised must be distinctly set forth, accompanied with only so much of the evidence as may be necessary to show their
pertinency and materiality. Ban-ctt v. Tlewlcsbury 15 Cal. 354.

19. Where a statement on appeal contains no specitication of grounds explaining the several points of objection set forth in a general way in the notice of
motion. the defect is not cured by the assignments in the exceptions taken to
the findings. Harper, admin’a:, v. Minor, Oct. T. 1865.

20. Settlement of statement.—The place to object to immaterial matter in
a statement is where it is made up and settled. If immaterial matter is introduced. and that fact is made to appear in the records, the arty insisting on in
introduction will be taxed with the costs of the immateri matter. Kimball v.
Sempls, 31 Cal. 657.

21. When a settlement is waived.—If a statement on appeal is served
and filed within the time required by the three hundred and thirty-eighth
section of the Practice Act, unless the respondent within hve days thereafter
prepares and serves amendments, he is deemed to have agreed to the statement, and no settlement thereof or certincate of the Judge is necessary.
War v. Jllorris, 23 Cal. 447.

22. When no statement is required on appeal.—It is only where an ap' alable order is made upon affidavits, and an appeal is taken directly from
‘ order, that a statement is not required. But even then there must be
e certificate of the Judge or clerk specifying the affidavits used. Stone v.
Stage, 1117 Cal. 513. f th
. ostatemento e unds ofapealisreuired, one from
judgment. Solomon v. Reegzo Oct. T. 181? . q ppeal
24. In an a peal taken from an order made after the dual judgment, upon
affidavits til , it is not necessary to make a statement, nor is it necessary to

specify the grounds upon which the a pellant will rel for a reversal of the
order. Haggin v. Clark, 28 Cal. 162. P y

25. If there is no statement on ap , no specincation of errors is required. Burnctt v. Pacheco, 27 Cal. .

26. Statement on appeal from probate courtn.—-Section three hundred
and thirty-eight of the Practice Act, prescribing what statements on appeal
shall contain, ap lies to statements made on appeal from the Probate Courts.
Estate of Boyd, 2% Cal. 512. ~

27. If a statement on appeal from the Probate Court does not state specincall
the particular errors or grounds upon which the a pellant intends to rely. and

the appeal rests on the statement alone, the ap will be dismissed on motion 0 the respondent. Id.

28. Statement died on motion for a new trial may be used on
appeal from the jud5ment.—See ante, § 193, No. 222.

29. Statement on appeal.-—If there is nothing in the statement showing
that it is a statement on motion for a new trial, and the statement declares
that the motion for a new trial was overruled, it will be regarded as a statement on appeal. Hagar v. Lucas, 29 Cal. 309.

30. [See further concerning the rules relating to the reparation of statement.3;a1i.nder § 19% thAls§ examinca the notgs un gr tt 1 3 ad 245, as to the
rem ' powers 'o e u reme ourt, an the ecisions aring upon the
subject of new trials, remedies, etc. See also the rules of the Supreme Court,
and the decisions thereunder to be found in the appendix.)

§ 339. ‘Omission to make statement or amendment according
to preceding section shall be a waiver thereof.

If the party shall omit to make a statement within the time
above limited, he shall be deemed to have waived his right
thereto; and when a statement is made, and the parties shall
omit within the several times above limited, the one party to
propose amendments, the other to notify an appearance before the Judge, they shall respectively be deemed, the former
to have agreed to the statement as prepared, and the latter
to have agreed to the amendments as proposed, but the Judge
who heard the cause shall, notwithstanding such omission or

implied agreement, have power to correct any misstatement

of facts or of his rulings which such statement may contain.

‘Amended Statutes 1855, 303; 1863, 644.

1. If a statement is served and died within the time required by the three
hundred and thirty-eighth section of the Practice Act, unless the respondent,
within five days thereafter, prepares and serves amendments, he is deemed to
have agreed to the statement; and no settlement thereof or certificate ot 
Judge is necessary. wnner v. Morris, 23 Cal. 447. _ f.

2. If the statement on appgal from agpdgment is not served on the responl,
dent‘s attorney until more 11 twenty ys after the rendition of judgment,
L13 gt; extension of time is pllitained, a statemept ishwaived, and tip; a te urtcannot review any eged errors exc sue as a in e u ment roll. Kavanagh v. Mans, 28 Cal. 261. GP ppm: J a8

3. If no amendments to a statement on appeal are served on the appellant,
it may be settled by the Judge without notice to the respondent, but It should
be authenticated either by the certificate of the Judge or by the stipulation ‘of

the parties. Id.
4. If a statement on appeal is not filed and served in time, the opposite party

does not waive the default by not returning to a pellants’ attorney the copy of
the statement served on him. Bryan v. Maume al., 28 Cal. 238.

5. If the party who appeals from a judgment does not file and serve a statement on appeal within twenty days from the date of the judgment, his right to
make a statement is waived. Harper v. Minor, 27 Cal. 108. '

§ 340. Time for preparing statement or amendment may be
enlarged; °

The several periods of time above limited may be enlarged,
upon good cause shown by the Judge before whom the cause
was tried.

1. If the appellant allow the twenty days to expire after taking the appeal
without framing a case, he waives his right to have a case stated ; and a subsequent order of the Court, made without notice to the respondent, allowing
further time to make up the statement, is a nullity. Leach 17. Allan, 2 Cal. 95.

2. The Court may extend the time for tiling a statement on appeal; but
moving for a new trial will not extend the time. Malwney v. Caperton, 15 Cal.
313 ;Nsee Harper v. Minor, 27 Id. 108; Bryan v. Maume, 28 Id. 238 ; and Q 338,
note os. 1-3.

3. '.l.‘1me may be extended thirty days_ without the consent of adverse
party. Bryan v. Maume, 28 Cal. 238.

4. If the appellant obtains an order extending the time to make a statement
on appeal more than thirty days beyond the time allowed by law, the opposite
party does not consent to such order by not making any objection thereto. Id.

5. An order extending the time for appellant to file a statement on appeal
more than thirty days beyond the twenty days allowed by law, is good for the
thirty days without the consent of the other party. Id.

§ 341. Authentication of statement.

The statement, when settled by the Judge, shall be signed
by him, with his certificate that the same has been allowed and is correct ; when the statement is agreed upon by
the parties, they or their attorneys shall sign the same with
their certificate that it has been agreed upon by them, and
is correct. In either case, when settled or agreed upon, it

shall be filed with the Clerk.
See 6 195, ante, Nos. 77-99, “Authentication of Statement.”

1. Settlement and authentication of stat:ement.—The statute does not
reguire the board of equalization to take down or preserve the evidence taken
be ore them, nor does it make any provision for settling a statement of a trial
before them, or a bill of exceptions taken during its progress; but doubtless
some mode might be ado ted to authenticate the evidence when required on
appeal. Central Pacijic ilroad Co. v. Placer 0 , 32 Cal. 582.

. If a statement on ap l is served and filed wi 'n the time required by
the three hundred and ' -eighth section of the Practice Act, unless the
respondent within dve days thereafter prepares and serves amendments, he is
deemed to have agreed to the statement, and no statement thereof or cartincate of the Judge is necessary. Connor 17. Morris, 23 Cal. 447.

3. If a statement in the transcript is not authenticated, and the agiplellant
afterwards brings up a certified but defective statement, he will not he owed
to use the second statement in connection with ortions of the tirst as the
statement in the case. Kimball v. Sample, 31 C 657.

4. Certificate of the judge or attorneys.—'I‘he statement of facts should
be signed in all cases by the Judges, exce t when agreed to by the parties or
their attorneys. Hur v. Young, 4 Cal. 84.

5. An ap can be eard upon a bill of exceptions taken at the trial, if
signed by e Judge. Johnson v. Sepulveda, 5 Cal. 149.

6. A Judge can revoke his certificate to a settled statement on appeal, during the term at which the 'udgment was rendered; but after the term has
ex ired it cannot be done. ranger cf: Driard v. Chevalier, 9 Cal. 351.

. A statement on appeal is sumcient, when the Judge cerfines that itil
substantially correct. t is not nec that the testimon should he stated
in the precise words of each mtne M v. Abbott, Cal. 565.

8. It is no objection that the statement does not amrmatively show that the
settlement was upon proper notice, or in the presence of both parties. In
the absence of evidence to the contragy, the presumption of law is in favor
of the regularity of allomcial acts. d.

9. Nor do affidavits used on motion to open the judgment form any part of
the record, where there is no certificate of the Judge or clerk, or an admission of counsel that they were used for that purpose. Rider v. Mason, 11
Cal. 214.

10. A statement, which was filed in the Court below, on motion for a new
trial. and is neither agreed to by counsel nor settled by the Judge trying the
ease, ha‘. not sumcient authentication to constitute any ‘portion of the record
which this Court can notice. Doyle v. Seawall, 12 Cal. 5.

11. And a certificate of the Judge who tried the cause, made eight years
after the trial, that he believed the exceptions taken were correctly noted in

the clerk's minutes of the testimony, cannot supply the place of a bill of
exceptions. Castro v. Armesli, 14 Cal. 38.

12. A statement on appeal, certified by the Judge to be correct according
to his recollection, is not snmcient. Van Pelt v. Littler, 14 Cal. 194.

13. Where documents and depositions are read or referred to, on the arguments of a motion for a new trial in the Court below, and are not embodied
in the statement, it will be sufiicient for the Judge to add. upon renderin his
decision, a certificate of the matters thus read or referred to. This cer ' cats
will be sumcient identification of the documents and depositions used; and a
copy of them, together with the statement and judgment roll, will constitute
tchi only record necessary in the Supreme Court. Louclcs Y. Edmondson, 18

203.

§342. ‘Statement shall be annexed to judgment roll or order
appealed from. ~

A copy of the statement shall be annexed to a copy of so
much of the judgment roll as shall be included in the transcript on appeal, if the appeal be from a judgment; if the
appeal be from an order, to a copy of such order.

1Amended statute 1864, 247.

§ 343. ‘Appeal from an order made upon ajidavit.

The provisions of the last five preceding sections shall not

apply to appeals taken from an order made upon affidavit
filed, but such affidavits shall be annexed to the order in the

place of the statement mentioned in those sections.

‘Amended statute 1854, 91.

1. It is only where an appealable order is made upon affidavits and an
appeal is taken directly from such order, that a statement is not required.
But even then, there must be some certificate of the Judge or clerk specifying
the affidavits used. Stone v. Stone, 17 Cal. 513.

2. In an appeal taken from an order, made after ilnal judgment, upon affidavits tlled, it is not necessary to make a statement, nor is it necessary to

specify the grounds u n which the appellant will rely for a reversal of the
order Haggin v. Clar ,28 Cal. 162.

3. In an appeal from an order made after ilnal jud ent, if appellant
makes a statement and relies upon it in the a pellate curt, the statement
must contain the grounds t}pon which the app t intendsto rely on appeal,
or it willbe disregarded. d.

4. Amdavits filed by a defendant in opposition to an a plication for an injunction made upon the complaint alone, are part of e record, and upon
appeal from the order may be considered, although not embraced in the statement. Gagliardo v. Crippen at al., 22 Cal. 362.

5. On an appeal from an order made on affidavits filed, no statement is

necessary. The affidavits must be annexed to the order in lace of a state’ ment, and the certificate of the clerk should specify the am vits used, and,

to enable him to do so, he should at the time mark them as nled on the
motion. Paine v. Linhill et a1., 10 Cal. 370.

§ 344. On appeal from a judgment the Chart may review
intermediate order.

Upon an appeal from a judgment, the Court may review
any intermediate order involving the merits, and necessarily

affecting the judgment.

1. Section three hundred and forty-four of the Practice Act, relating to a
review of intermediate orders upon an appeal from a dual judgment, relates
to such intermediate orders only as are in themselves non-appealable. Hihn

v. Pack, 30 Cal. 280.
2. Interlocutory orders made in the progress of a trial will not be reviewed

in the appellate Court, unless they are embodied in a statement or bill of

exceptions. Abbott v. Douglass, 28 Cal. 295.
3. On an appeal from a iiual judgment, the Court cannot review an order

refusing to dissolve an attachment. Allender v. Fritts et al., 24 Cal. 447.

4. The District Court cannot review an order uting a nonsuit upon a
motion to set aside the nonsuit. Levy v. Getteson, 7 Cal. 686.
6. An order denying a motion to re-tax costs should be reviewed by an

appeal from the judgment, and annexing a statement to the judgment roll. Id.

§ 345. Remedial powers of the Appellate Court.

Upon an appeal from a judgment or order, the Appellate
Court may reverse, aihrm or modify the judgment or order
appealed from, in the respect mentioned in the notice of appeal, and as to any or all of the parties; and may set aside or
confirm, or modify any or all of the proceedings subsequent to
or dependent upon such judgment or order, and may, if necessary or proper, order a new trial. When the judgment
or order is reversed or modified, the Appellate Court may
make complete restitution of all property and rights lost by
the erroneous judgment or order ; and when it appears to the
Appellate Court that the appeal was made for delay, it may

add to the costs such damages as may be just.
See N. Y. Code, § 330.

1. When the judgment will be amrmed.—'l‘o disturb a judgment of a
Court of original jurisdiction, it is not sumcient that error may have intervened,
but it must be affirmatively shown by the record. White v. Abernathy, 3 Cal.
426.

-2. Errors which are immaterial, and do not alfect the substantial righh of the
parties, are unavailing on appeal, even when the subject of the exc tion °
much less so when they are permitted without objection. Paige v. 0’ cal, Ii

C 1. 483.
93. An order by the Court below, granting a new trial, will not be disturbed

where the statement on appeal consists of a mere outline of the evidence, without any rulings and instructions of the 0ourt——the statement not purporting to

as to justify any interference with the order. mondson, 18 Cal. 203.

4. A Court of review will not reverse the jud ment of an inferior tribunal for
errors committed in excluding evidence if the evidence excluded is contained in
the record, and it ap ears that the part complaining would not have been entitled to recover if t e evidence had al been admitted. Susana Martinez Dc
Merle v._H. Mathews at al., 26 Cal. 455. _ _ _

5. A Judgment will not be reversed because of the admiss_ion.of irrelevant
testimony, where no substantial right of the party was prejudiced thereby.
Henry v. Ever-ts, 30 Cal. 425. . _

ti. A judgment will not be reversed on account of error in admitting lm roper
evidence upon a point immaterial to the decision. Kidd v. Zleeple, 22 Ca . 255.

7. When a judgment is correct by the record, it will be affirmed without
reference to the grounds upon which it was rendered by the Court below. Id.

8. Where, on appeal from an order nting a new trial, the record shows
that the motion was made u n seve grounds, without BhOW;l&l11pOn which
of diem the action of the curt below was based, the order ' not be reversed if it was within the discretion of the Court to make it upon any of the
pounds stated. Oullahan v.  21 Cal. 4l3. M

9. When the case made by plainti&"s proof differs from the averments ‘of
the complaint, and defendant makes n o objection to the introduction of the
evidence on this ground, the Supreme Court will not reverse the judgment on
account of the variance. Marshall v. Ferguson 23 Cal. 65.

10. If the decision of the Court below was correct when it was made, the
a pellate Court will not reverse the ‘judgment b reason of any matter of fact
wplncd was nottsghown or ofered in e Court be ow. Wallace v. Etdredgc, 27
Cal. (No. 2) .

V 11. A ' dginent will not be reversed because an error has intervened in the
course 0 a trial, which does not prejudice the defendant's cause. Boyce v.
Cali ornia Stage 00., 25 Cal. 473.

1 . A judgment will not be reversed for an error favorable to the appellant.
Wilkinson v. Parrott, 32 Cal. 102. .
oflggal Where an agtitlclin ital commenced against ja , rsontalfleged to be the gust

estate, an e r estate, to recover u gmen or taxes assess on
the same, and the Court finds as a fact that the person sued is not the owner
of the real estate, anld renclfrs gudglinent in giixlfago? bait ' tththe rs:
estate, an an a is ta en e rson e e en ant mm s 'u merit in his favoIi,Fb‘ut not from t e juh hegtfagaitililst ts; real estate, heJcannot assign as error any oceedings' w c ect e r estate, and as the
]:£d%61it2g0e8 not injurnidusly adect him, it will be amrmed. People v. Wilson,

14. Where the findings in a case tried by the Court do not contain all the
facts necessary to be roved in order to be entitled the prevailing y to a
judgment, it will not _ reversed on a peal, unless the Court below _ s, after
the defect has been pointed out, fail or refused to make the required and and an exception has been taken thereto. Lyons v. Leimbaolc, 29 Cal.

15. If the complaint on an omcial bond avers the due execution of the
same by   and sureties, and the answer takes issue on the avermerit, verdict and Judgment are for plaintifff, the judgment will not be disturbed on a peal upon the Judgment roll on the ground that what purports to
be a cttgpglrlo theciboiid agfnexed to tche complaint. doeggigittk corstain the signalnreoteprinpa. endoctneountv.1l[on-is, 1.

16. A udginent will not_ be reverseci’ on_ account of error in the record if

giizappe cangainnothing byanew trial. Larcov.0asaneuaca,30Cal.

17. If the Court below dnds damages in an action to recover lands, but
gives judgment for possession only, and the appellate Court determines that
the nnding is not sustained by the evidence the judgment. on an a peal by
both parties, will be amrmed, if the plaintifff releases his claim for d’auiages.
Oarpentier v. Gardiner, 29 Cal. 160.

give all the testimony, and that given not bein so iliclgaarliin favor of the verdict
v.
8

18. When judgment will be reversed. genera1ly.—If illegal testimony
is admitted by the Court below, and the appellate Court cannot determine
whether the findin of the Court below was based on this or other testimony
in the case, the ju ent will be reversed. Raf v. Duane, 27 Cal. 568.

19. If the plain ' admits on the pleadings that he never had cause of action against the defendant, the Supreme Court will reverse a judgment in his
favor, and may either order a judgment in defendant's favor in the Court below, or may remand the cause for further proceedings. Mulford v. Estudillo,

32 Cal. 131.
20. A judgment on a complaint that does not state facts sumcient to constitute a cause of action cannot be sustained. Barron v. Frinlc, 30 Cal. 486.

21. Although the statute does not require the assessed value of propert to
be alleged in the complaint in an action to recover taxes, et if it is alleged,
and the record shows that a judgment was rendered for greater term than
the total amount of coun and State taxes authorized to be levied by law, the
judgment will be revers . People v. Hastings, 26 Cal. 668.

22. Where a demurrer is filed to the defendant's answer, it is irregular
for plaintifff to take judgment before some disposition is made of the demurrer. And where the record on appeal discloses this state of facts, and
no ' more from which an abandonment of the demurrer can be inferred,
the judgment will be reversed. Huse v. Moore, 20 Cal. 115; Hestres, Administrator, v. Clements, 21 Cal. 425.

23. When a judgment by default will be reversed on appeal. See ante,
§ 150, Nos. 43-49.

24. Judgment will notbe reversed on account of variance between
pleadings andproof. See ante, t 71.

25. Judgment, where one of several parties appeal.—Where {only one
of several defendants. 'nst whom a judgment has been rendered, appeals

to the Supreme Court, e appellate Court, if it reverse the j‘p_%gment, ma

reverse or modify it as to any or all of the parties defendant. ere. in su
case, the error assigned only affects the party ap 'ng, the Court will not
presume error as to the parties not appealing, an will reverse the 'udgment
only as to the arty appealing. Ricketson v. Richardson. 26, Cal. 1 2.

26. Where tliiere are several parties defendant, and some appeal, and from
the judgment against themselves the judgment as to appellants may, and will
on motion be reversed without affecting the judgment against the other defesndants, who are not parties to the appeal. Mintum v. Baylis, Oct. T.
1 6 .

27. On reversing judgment the supreme court may render a new
judgment.—The Court, on reversing a judgment, can render such judgment
as the Court below should have done. Galm v. Neville, 2 Cal. 81; Bidleman v.
Kewen. Id. 248.

28. When the Court below has wrongfully refused to dissolve an attacho
ment improperly issued. the Supreme Court will order it dissolved, even
iafétle il_r_I1al judgment is amrmed on a review of the case. Griswold v. Sharpe,

. 1 .

29. Instead of remandinga cause for a new trial, where the ‘u ent below is erroneous, this Court will so modify it as finally to se e e controversy, when the rights of the parties appear from the records to be dually ascertained. Persse v. Cole, 1 Cal. 369.

30. After a judgment has been rendered by the Supreme Court, a material
modification of such judglment should not be made upon a ggtiou for a relééezringwthe rehearing ould ilrst be granted. Clark v. 14 Cal.

30. Judgment directed in the court below.—-The Court below cannot
refuse to give effect to the judgment of this Court; and a judgment entered by
the Clerk. in such case. is just as binding as if entered in the Supreme Court
itself. McM'd1an v. Richards, 12 Cal. 467.

31. It is not the practice of this Court to direct the entry of a judgment in the

Court below, in actions at law, except where the facts have been found by the
Judge who tried the cause, or b the special verdict of a jury, or where, from
the character of an action or p eadings, one of the party is entitled to judgment without proof. Bagley v. Elton, 10 Cal. 126.

32. The Court below allowed to enter judgment for plaintifff, on the return of
the case, for the amount of the verdict, if plaintifff so desires; otherwise, to re-try
the cause. Renif v. Cynlhia, 18 Cal. 669.

33. The law regards the substance more than the form, and where .the proceeding, though in form a case of contempt, is in substance a private right, the
appellate Court will compel the Court below to issue an attachment to punish
a contempt. Merced Co. v. Fremon1,7 Cal. 130.

34. Where the Court below granted a nonsuit—the case being submitted on
complaint on an undertaking and answer—the Supreme Court. while reversing
the judgment below, refusedto enter judgment for plaintifff, although the answer presented no defense, holding, that as there was no trial below, the Court
could not know what course defendants would have taken, by amendments or
otherwise, by way of defense to the action. McMillan v. Dana, 18 Cal." 339.

35. Case remanded, with directions to add to the judgment already had in
the Court below for lainti£' for the land, the yearly rent as found by the
jury. Bay v. P , 8 Cal. 694.

36. Case where Supreme Court, after reversing jlpidgment by default because
the complaint contained several items, some of w ‘c were  , remanded
gig  with liberty to defendant to set up defense. P v. Huger, 19

37. If an attorney stipulates, under a mistake of fact, that a notice of appeal has been filed, when no notice has been filed, the Court below, upon a

roper ap lication, may relieve him from it, but the Supreme Court cannot.
§onds v. wk-man, 29 Cal. 460.

38. The appellate Court may add to the judgment of reversal directions
that the cause be tried de novo, or that a particular issue be tried, leaving all
the other facts found by the Court, remaining as facts in the case, or that the
Court enter a judgmentu n certain specified facts in the case. Argenti v.
C1'.%ofSan Francisco, 30 al. 458. .

. If thej dgment is erroneous, and the findings of fact are such as to
enable the Sn reme Court to determine what kind of a judgment should have
been rende it will direct the Court below to render the proper judgment.
Love v. Shartzer, 31 Cal. 488.

40. Judgment reversed, with leave to laintiff to amend his complaint, or
he may be advised. Maniner v. Srnith, 7 Cal. 654.

41. When new trial will be ordered.—-When it is apparent that, in
case a new trial should be granted, the verdict of the jury must be in favor of
the laintih‘, the jud ent of the Court below, in favor of the plaintifff, will
not disturbed. ofiler v. Falsom, 1 Cal. 207.

42. Where, on appeal, the complaint is so radically defective as not to anthorize the judgment of the Court below, a new trial may be granted, with
leave to the plamtif to amend his complaint, on such terms as the Court
below may deem just. Sterling v. Hanson, 1 Cal. 478.

43. When it is manifest, from the testimony stated in the record, that the
verdict of the jury must have been given under a state of great excitement,
preventing a fair and just trial, and the Court below has refused a new trial,
this Court will reverse the judgment, and order a new trial. The People v.
Acosta, 10 Cal. 195.

44. When the complaint, evidence as admitted, the verdict, and judgment
are in harmony, but the judgment is erroneous, by reason of a wrong construction given to the descri tion of land in a deed in evidence, the Supreme
Court cannot modify the ju%ment, but will refuse it and grant a new trial.
Hicks v. Coleman et al., 25 C . 122.

45. Where a lessor sues to enjoin the lessee from ' the bricks from
and destro ' a brick building erected by the lessee on e lot leased, the
tenant claiming the right to remove the building under the terms of the lease,
and claims damages in the sum of $1,000, and the answer makes no denial of

thedamages,and*no£roofthsreofisoBered,and the Oourt,aftu' '
9-ants the injunction ut refuses a judgment for dam : Held, that aid:
plaintiil‘ makesacrossappeal from therefusal toallow sdsimagesasclaianed.
yet as defendant may have been taken by surprise, this Court will remand the
case for trial denovouponthe question ofdamages,withprivilege ofamending
the pleadings so as fairly to nt the issue on this point. Jungev-man v.
Bovee, 19 Cal. 355. See f er, ante, $193, No. 165.

46. Dismissal of appeal.~—See § 346, note No. 42.

46. Errors, whenmaybe presented Iorthe first timeinthe supreme

court.--11‘ the com laint does not show a good cause of action. the judgment

» will be reversed, ough no ob'ection be taken below. Russell v. Ford, 2
Cal. 86; Gregory v. Ford, 14 Ca . 138; Barron v. Frinlc, 30 Cal. 486; .Himmdmam v. Danos, April T. 1868.

47. An objection to the comgolaint that defeats only plaintiE’s present right to
recover must be made in the urt of original jurisdiction during the term at
which the judgment is rendered. But when the defects are of such a serious
character as to show that plaintiii‘ could not at any time obtain an judgment
upon the cause of action alleged, then the objection may be made or the first
time in the appellate Court. Hmtsch v. Porter, 10 Cal. 555.

48. Where a bill in equity shows on its face that plaintifffianot entitled to
relief, the defect ma be taken advantage of in the appellate Court, even though
no demurrer be ill . White v. Fratt, 13 Cal. 521.

49. Where objections to evidence, though not made in the Court below, could
not be under any circumstances there obviated, such objection may be taken for
the tlrst time in the Supreme Court ' as, for example, objections to die substantial cause of action, not to its technical form of statement, and to the jurisdiction of the Court below, may be resented to the Supreme Court for the first
time, or may be considered by the urt, whether its attention he directed to
them or not. Mott v. Smith, 16 Cal. 533.

50.13-rot-awhichoannotbepresentedfortiisnrst t:lmsinthesupreme court.—An objection to the misjoinder of the defendant Bands v.
Pfeifer, 10 Cal. 258.

51. That certain parties could not intervene. McKenty v. Gladwin, Hugg ct
00., 10 Cal. 227.

52. That a supplemental complaint should have been illed. Van Jfaren v.
Johnson, 15 Cal. 308.

53. Objection to the form of a complaint or answer. Butter-v. (he, 6 Cal.
415 ; Du j‘ v. Fisher, 15 Id. 375.

54. That one of two counts in a complaint in an equitable action should not
be tried by a jury. Balcer v. Joseph, 16 Cal. 173.

55. An objection to an order overruling a motion to set aside the judgment
and quash the execution not exce ted to. Smith v. Ourtis, 7 CaL 584.

56. An objection to the form 0 a verdict. Douglass v. Eu 1, 9 Cal. 562.
N57’.'8An objection to evidence. Potter v. Karney, 8 CaL 5 4. See post, not

0. . .

58. An objection that an account presented to the supervisors of a was
not “authenticated,” as required by the statute (Acts 1857, 167). v.
Yuba County, 14 Cal. 219.

59. Grounds for a nonsuit which were not taken in the Court below. Baler

.v. Joseph, 16 Cal. 173. _

60. An objection that the dndin is ualiiied by the words “as to plaintiff,
Parke,” and that the facts sho tgs relation to him 0 ht to have been
found, should have been taken below. Parloe v. Hinds. 14 . 415.

61. The question of the Statute of Limitations cannot be raised on appeal,
unless presented in some form on the trial below, even tho it he pleaded.
g::)Donaldd:BlacIobuo-nv.BearRiver¢tAubtmt Water 4: iaing 00., 13 CaL

62. That interest was improperlty allowed. Whiting v. mark, 17 CaL 407.

63. A mistake in the taxation 0 costs. Guy v. Franklin, 5 Cal. 416.

64. That a sti ulationllled in the Court below wu disregarded. Ola:-be v.

.Forehay, 3 Cal. 90.

65. Error in a decree which could» have been corrected in the Court below.
Pblan v. Ruir, 15 Cal-. 90.

S6. Objections to the verihcation of a complaint that it was not authenticated
byrthe seal oi the notary; that there was no venue to the affidavit; that there
was no evidence that the otllcerwas a notary public, etc., should be taken in the
Court below, and cannot be raised for the tlrst time in this Court. Kuhland v.
Sedgwiclc, 17 Cal. 123.

61. If the plaintifff on the trial treats an allegation of the complaint as-denied
in the answer, and introduces evidence to prove it, he will not be permitted;
after the issue is found against him, to raise the point for the tlrst time in the
Egpreme Court that such allegation is not denied. Racouillat v. Rene, 32 Cal.

0.

68. If a complaint contains more than one count, and one of‘ the counts does
not state a cause of action, the answer need not deny the alle tions of such
count. and objections may be made to itfor the that time in the upreme Court.
Haskell v. Moon, 29eCal. 437.

69. When parol testimony to vary the terms of a written agreement is offered
and received in the Court below, without objection, the objection cannot be
raised in the Sn reme Court that the testimony was inadmissible. Tlebbsv.
Weatherwax, 23 al. 58; Douglass v. Kraft, 9 Cal. 562; People v. Glenn, 10
Cal. 32; Payne v. Treadwell, 161 Cal. 247. ‘

70. In a civil action, a party cannot raise the ob'ection for the first time in
the Supreme Court that the jury before which e cause was tried in the
Court below was not duly selected and summoned as required by law. To
enable a party to avail himself of such objection, it must be made in the
Court below. Spencer v. Doane, 23 Cal. 418.

71. A fact not directl raverred in the com laint, but which, in the pleadings
and in the nndings o the Court, is inci entally recognized and treated as
true and not in controversy, cannot be questioned for the first time in the
up te Court on objection to the complaint‘. People v. Jones, 20 Cal. 50.

2. The res ondent ma insist, in the appellate Court, upon a point ro
er? presentecf although i is not urged in a trial. Kidd v. eeple, 22 Ca .25 .

3. An objection to an answer because it does not state the particular facts
and circumstances constituting the alleged fraud, cannot be raised for the
nrst time in the appellate Court. King v. Davis, Oct. T. 1867.

74. Objections to evidence will not be noticed in the Supreme Court, unless
taken in the Court below in the first instance, if they be of a character which
might there have been obviated by the production. of other evidence or the
release of the interest of witnesses, or an amendment to the pleadings, or in
an other way. Mott v. Smith, 16 Cal. 535.

5. Where the error of a decree is apparent by reference to the bill and
decree, the party aggrieved may assi t e error, though no demurrer be
interposed. Gregory v. Ford, 14 Cal. 1 .

76. Error: must be raised in the Court bolow.——Errors cannot be
relied on in‘ an appellate Court which are not taken advantage of and raised
in the Court below. Morgan v. Hugg,,5 Cal. 409.

7 7. The Supreme Court will consider only errors of law, to which exceptions have been regularly taken. McCartney v. Fitz Henry, 18 Cal. 184; Collier
v. Corbett, 15 Id. 183.

78. Objections to the introduction of evidence confined in the a ellate
Court to the gmunds taken below. N atoma Water cf: Mining Co. v. Iélgrkin,
14 Cal. 544; Baker v. Joseph, 16 Id. 173.

79. Review of evidence on appeal from judgrnent.—0n a peal from
a judgment, the Supreme Court will look at the evidence so far 0 y as to see
the relevancy of the exceptions taken during the trial. Garpentier v. Williamson at al., 25 Cal. 159. See ante, § 193, notes No. 112-122.

80. On an appeal from a judgment, errors in the rulings of the Court below,
in the so of the trial, are subject to review when the exceptions are preserved ' of exceptions, or ‘brought up in a statement on appeal. Id.

81. Findings of fact cannot be reviewed by the appellate Court on anappeal
gréesmé. a judgment. Racouillal v-. Rene, 32» Cal. 450; People v. Parrott, Jan. T.

82. The Supreme Court cannot examine the evidence for the urpoee of
finding a fact. To do so would be the exercise of original rather pin]late jurisdiction. Ellis v. Jeans, 26 Cal. 275; Cavpentier v. Gardiner, 29 Id. 60.

83. On an appeal from a dual judgment, the Sn reme Court will not review
the evidence to ascertain whether the facts found Ey the referee are an
by the evidence. The evidence will not be reviewed exclept on an ap froln
an order denying a new trial. Id. Hihn v. Peck, 30 C . 280.

84. On an a peal from a judgment, the appellate Court cannot consider the

uestion whet er the findings of fact are justified by the evidence. People v.

rnard, 27 Cal. 474; Burnett v. Pacheco, 27 Id. 409.

85. On an appeal from a judgment, when there is no statement, the SnE-eme Court will only consider matter appearing in the judgment roll.

a Ifv.thMincr, 27 C . 109. Peal f is

. ere is no statement on ap , no speom cation 0 errors required. Burnea v. Pacheco, 27 Cal. 409.

87. On an a peal from ajudgment, if no errors are assi edintherecord,
thilap l(1£tle 1§7urt will only review the judgment roll. illard v. Hathaway
d ., . .

88. Presumpt:ions.—The notices and affidavits dled on an application to
retax costs, were not embodied in a bill of exceptions or statement. Held,
that the j dgment must be amrmed, u on the resumption that the Court beloévarllegisdsed properly upon all the evi ence be are it. Gates v. Buck-ingham,
4 . .

89. Error will not be presumed, but must be amrmatively shown, and all
intendments are in favor of the regularity of the Court below. Ford v. Holion, 5 Cal 319.

90. The fact of the appellants havin objected, in the Court below, to the
introduction of evidence of location 0 a school land warrant, on the ground
that it was not recorded in the proper office. is not suilicient to justify the appellate Court in presuming that such was the case, when the statement on
ap eal contains no evidence of the fact. Nims v. Jzhnson, 7 Cal. 110.

1. Where the evidence is not set out in a statement on appeal, this Court
will presume that the Court below had good reason for granting a new trial.
Dickinson v. Van Horn, 9 Cal. 207.

92. Where the instruction may be correct under any state of facts, then the
Supreme Court presumes in favor of the jud ent below, and will not reverse it when there is no statement of facts or  of exceptions-—because the
ap ellant must show amrmative error. P e v. Levison, 16 Cal. 98.

3. Every intendment must be in favor o a decision of the Court below ;
and a cause will notbe reversed upon an error of law, unless it appears from
the statement or leadings in the case that the party complaining is injured
by such error. ohnson v. Sepulveda, 5 Cal. 149; Grewell v. Henderson, 7 Cal.
290; Ringgold v. Haven, 1 Cal. 108; Crane v. Bnannan, 3 Cal. 195.

94. Where there are two presumptions equally reasonable arising upon the
face of the record, this Court is bound to ado t that which will maintain the
judgment of the Court below. Whipley v. F , 6 Cal. 630.

95. Where the record does not contain the instructions of the Court below,
the presumption will be that the laws applicable to the facts were correctly
given to the jury. Aldrich v. Palmer et als., 24 Cal. 515.

96. The Supreme Court will not resume error, or that facts exist which
would show error. If the Court be ow commits error in its finding or ' dgment, that error, or the facts necessary to establish it, must be shown
tively b the appellant. Hen-iter v. Porter, 23 Cal. 

97. T e general rule is, that if error intervenes, the judgment must be reversed, but if, during the subsequent proceedings of the trial. the foundation
of the error is overthrown, and facts are shown which supgrt the ruling of
the Court, the error is cured. People v. Anderson, 26 Cal. .

98. Error will not be presumed, and if the record does not show that the
Court erred in striking out an answer, the 'udgment will not be reversed on
this ground. Dimiclc v. C‘a:£bell, 31 Cal. 38.

99. The appellate Court ' not assume that the Court below committed

en-or unless the record shows wherein, and one who alleges error must rely
on the record to disclose it. FF"aldz'e v. Doll, 29 Cal. 555.

100. The presumption is, that all the facts in a record, bearing on the oints
decided, have received due consideration by the Supreme Court, whetger all
or a part, or none of those facts are mentioned in the opinion. Mulford v.
Estudillo, 32 Cal. 131.

101. When there are both issues of law and fact joined in the same cause,
and the cause is tried on the issues of fact and a Judgment rendered, the resumption will be indulged, on appeal, that the issue of the law had been t
disposed of. Brooks v. Douglass, 32 Cal. 208.

102. The Court will presume, after a verdict, that facts imperfectly alle d
in a com laint have been proved, but it will not presume that a material act
not at stated has been proved. Barron v. F-rmlc, 30 Cal. 486.

103. The presumptions of law are all in favor of the correctness of the
judgment of the Court below. Error will not be presumed, but must be
shown amrmatively. Landers v. Bolton, 26 Cal. 403.

105. If the nndxngs are defective, the presumption is that the facts not
found were. proved, unless the Court below is requested to supply the defect,
and fails or refuses to do so. Lyons v. Leimbaclc, 29 Cal. 139.

106. Where the appellant shows error, the presum tion is that he has been
rejudiced by it, and if the respondent claims that e has not been so preju'ced, it is incumbent on him to see that the record discloses the fact that

such claim is well founded. Norwood v. Kenjield, 30 Cal. 394.

107. What will not be considered by the supreme court.—On appeal
by a plaintifff from an order overruling a motion for a new trial made by im
on the ground of insumciency of the evidence to justify the verdict, an exception taken by defendant on the trial to the competence of a witness who
testified for plaintifff will not be considered. Pierce v. Jackson, 21 Cal. 636.

108. The Court refused to consider an assignment of error made by
respondent by stipulation. See opinion. Paul v. Magee, 18 Cal. 698.

109. Questions not directly involved upon appeal, and those which are unnecessary to a ju ent of amrmance or reversal, will not be considered.
Wat v. Smith, 5 Cu 96.

110. Points not made in the Court below, nor embraced in the grounds
upon which the appeal was taken, will not be considered by this Court.
Stoddard v. Treadwell, 29 Cal. 281.

111. The Supreme Court will not investigate and decide questions not regularly arising in the due course of litigation, in order to gratify the curiostiy of
counsel or parties who procure them, to be raised against themselves by
others who feel no interest in the contest. People v. Pratt, 30 Cal. 223.

112. When questions are not presented in good faith, in the regular course
of honest litigation, the Supreme Court will not pass upon them. Id.

113. Supreme court may amend the record, or modify a judgment,
when.-—-A mere clerical error in a judgment, not afectin the ap llant, can be
corrected, and is not ground for reversal. Anderson v. arlcer, Cal. 197.

114. A motion to amend the judgment of the Supreme Court mustbe made
 tgplten days allowed ibr tiling apetition for re-hearing. Gray v. Gray,
11 . .

115. If no motion be made in the Court below to correct a clerical error
disclosed by the pleadings, the error will be corrected in the Supreme Court
at ap llant's cost. Tryon v. Sutton. 13 Cal. 490; 15 Cal. 9.

ll . Errors in dates, in co ies of documents, in the description of premises
taken for conve ances, and t e like, can be corrected by a re-settlement; and
upon proper s owing. made before at ent, the Supreme Court may send
the record back to the Court below for t at purpose. So where the errors are
admitted. People v. Romero, 18 Cal. 89.

117. Where, on appeal from an order granting a new trial, the Sn reme
Court amrmed the “judgment” below, and the remittitur was issue ; and
then, at a subsecktfilent term, the respondent moved the,Court to amend its
judgment by ma ‘ng it read, “The order of the District Court anting a
new trial is amrmed,” instead of “The judgment is amrmedf’ H , that the

motion will be granted, on the principle that courts have the power to amend
clerical errors, and enter a ju ent nunc pro tunc when the record itself dis¢1:l2o’ses that error, even though tr e term has elapsed. Swain v. Naglee, 19 Cal.

118. The appellate Court may order a document to be inserted in or stricken from the transcri t, in order to perfect it. but it cannot vary or amend’
the document itself. ands v. H iclcmvn, 29 Cal 460.

119. The Sn reme Court has no authority to correct the records in the
lower courts. pplications to correct errors in the records of District Courts,
if an exist, must be made in lower courts. Boston v. Haynes, 31 Cal. 107;
Broo v. Lubbaclc, April '1‘. 1865.

120. Where there is a discrepancy between the iinding of facts and the
judgment, this Court may, on appeal, order the proper modidcation of the
Judgment; but where the judgment is in harmony wit the pleadings and the
dnding of facts, and is erroneous by reason of a variance between the dudingand the roof, this Court will not modify the judgment to suit the proof.
0 rlcv. H , 20Cal. 196. A

121. When a demurrer to a complaint is sustained in the Court below, and
plaintifff’ declines to amend and appeals from the judgment and the order sustaining the demurrer, the Supreme Court, if it amrm the judgment, cannot
grant plaintifff to amend his complaint. People v. Jackson et al., 24 Cal. 630.

122. The Su reme Court cannot amend a complaint so as to make it correspond with t e verdict. Hooper v. Wells, Fargo (1: 00., 27 Cal. 311.

123. Where the appeal is only from an order denying a new trial, the
appellate Court may, if the case requires it, go back to the complaint and
strike out one or more of the causes of action, and if there is a good count
remaining, and the findings authorize it, modify the judgment. Argenti v.
City of San Francisco, 30 Cal. 458. [See same case, 32 Id. 414.]

124. E. recovered judgment against J. and L. and L. for possession of dve
hundred acres of land, and live thousand dollars damages. The Supreme
Court reversed the judgment, because the damages were excessive, and because E. was in possession of one hundred and eighty acres of the land when
suit was brought. E. offered to release the damages and the one hundredand eighty acres from the operation of the judgment. Held, that as neither
the pleadings nor dndings of fact dxed the location of the one hundred and
gisglétzrl ages, the Supreme Court could not modify its judgment. Elie v. Jeans.

. 5.

125. Damages and costs.--Ten per cent. dam was awarded by the
Slggreme Court where the appeal was for delay. v. Williams, 2 Cal.

126. Where the respondents obtained a 'udgment on the twenty-third of
December, 1851, and the a peal bond was led on the twenty-fourth of December, andia certihcate o the clerk of the same Court. dated February 2d,
1852, that no transcript, record, or other papers in the cause had been filed,
End the affidavit of respondents reduced that the a peal was taken for delay, the Court ordered the appea to be dismissed, wit ten per cent. damages.
and costs. Buckley v. Stebbms, 2 Cal. 149.

127. When the objection to the judgment was entirely unsu ported, the
jatgdgment was alllrmed, with ten per cent. damages. Bates v. usher, 2 Cal.

J.

128. When the uestions raised by the record, on appeal in this Court.
have been repea y settled b this Court, or are decided by reference to
plain elsmen principles of w, the 'udgment of the Court below will be
amrmed, with ages. Pinlcham v. emplc, 12 Cal. 449.

129. Where a judgment was aiilrmed in part, and reversed in the respondent was allowed his costs in Court below, but was req ' to pay the
costs of the appeal. Cole v. Swanston, 1 Cal. 51.

130. Where an appellant has failed to file a transcript of the record showing that the appeal had been perfected. the Court ordered it dismissed, with
ten per cent. costs. Pacheco v. Bernal, 2 Cal. 150.

131. Fifteen per cent. damages awarded in DeW'ttt v. Porter, 13 Cal. 171;
twenty per cent. in N iclcerson v. California Stage Company, 10 Cal. 520.

132. It is no proper ground for a motion to dismiss an ap cal that it is sham
or frivolous. though it may be a 0d reason for a spec y submission and
decision of the appeal. An ap is a matter of right, and that right cannot
be defeated because the a peal may be groundless. The remedy of the
respondent in such cases is %y an award of damages by this Court under seczlhreemhundred and forty—tive of the Practice Act. Ricleetson v. Compton,

. 6 .

133. When irrelevant matter to any considerable extent is introduced into
the record on appeal, the Supreme Court will visit the party who insisted upon
its introduction with costs of that portion of the record, whether he succeeds
u1)1«g:.tl]1§9 pneriiitls of lgile case gr not.n Harper v. Mine: 27 Cal. 109.

e en nts ow an a ants here, ont e main uestion, to wit:
the injunction, r uired to pay gopaits in this Court on both a%peals. Jungermany. Bovee, 19e3al. 355.

135. Restitution of property and rights.—The eighth section of the ac.
concerning Courts of justice. which provides that when a “judgment or order
is reversed or modified, this Court may make complete restitution of all property and rights lost by the erroneous judgment or order,” does not cover the
ease of a judgment for the recovery of money. It applies only to those cases
where the judgment operates upon specinc property msuch a manner that its
title is not changed; as, by directing the possession of real estate, or the delivery of documents. or of particular rsonal property in the hands of the
defendant, and the like. Farmer v. _ 10 Ca . 335. .'

136. The three hundred and forty-fifth section of the Practice Act, author.izing the Supreme Court, on the reversal or modiiication of the judgment or
order below. to make restitution of the property and rights lost by the erroneous judgment or order, does not exclude the lower Court from exercising the

some power. Reynolds v. Harris, 14 Cal. 667.

137. Effect: of reversal.—After reversal of an erroneous judgment, the
‘min the Court below have the same rights which they originally had.

1 helan v. Supervisors of San Francisco, 9 Cal. 15.

138. Therefore,,when adnal judgment or demurrer to the complaint sustaining the demurrer was reversed, the plaintifff had the right to amend, on
application to the Court below. Id.

39. A judgment “ of reversal” in the Supreme Court is not necessarily a
bar to further proceedings in the action. The opinion rendered with the judgment is advisory to the Court below, and after the reversal of an erroneous
judgment, the parties have the same rights which theyhad originally. Stearns
v. Aguirre, 7 Cal. 443.

140. Where a judgment is rendered in this Court reversing the judgment of
the Court below, an remanding the case for further roceedings, it becomes
the law of the case, though erroneous. Gunter v. La an, 7 Cal. 558; Clary v.
Hoagland, 6 Cal. 685.

141. Where a judgment is rendered, and an appeal taken to this Court, the
Court below loses control over the judgment, and an order amending the
'ndgment is erroneous. Bryan v. Berry, 8 Cal. 130. See further, ante, § 144;

'03. 104-108.

142. Supreme court loses jurisdiction, when.—-This Court loses all
control and jurisdiction over a case after the remittitur has been died in the
Court below. Blane v. Bowman, 22 Cal. 23.‘

143. A motion, thereforee, to vacate a judgment on the ground that it was not
rendered by the proper members of the Court, cannot be entertained after the
remittitur has been filed below. Id.

144. District court cannot modny the judgment of the supreme court.
Plaintiffs recovered judgment against the defendants for a certain sum of
money. Plaintiffs claimed that it should have been for gold coin; an appeal
was taken on that point and the Supreme Court held that a certain ortion of
the amouutfonnd due was payable in any kind of lawful money, an that the
balance was payable in gold‘ coin. Upon filing the remittiturs the plaintidl!
moved for a Judgementfor interest accrued on the demand for which the action

was brought. during the interval between the commencement of the action and
the rendering of the judgment in the District Court; motion denied and plaintiffls
appealed. Held, that the District Court had no power at the time the motion
was made to further modi the judgment by opening it and adding the interest
thereto. Meyer v. Kohn, ct. T. 1867.

145. If the Supreme Court directs the District Court to enter a judgment in a
case in particular form. the District Court has no authority to enter a diferent
judgment from that directed, even if the judgment directed fails to give the
party what was justl or legally his due. Argenti v. Sawyer, 32 Cal. 414.

146. A decision 0 the Supreme Court in a case becomes the law of that case
in all its stages. Id.

147. The opinion of the supreme court in the law of the case.

148. A ruling by the appellate Court upon a point distinctly made upon a
previous appeal, is in all subsequent roceedings in the same case a final adjudication, from the consequences of w ich the Court cannot depart nor the parties relieve themselves. Phelan v. San Francisco, 20 Cal. 39.

149. When an appeal is taken from an order granting a preliminary injunction, and the order is reversed, the opinion of the Court will not apply to any
new state of facts which may appear in record or an appeal from the dual judgment. Trinity County v. McCammon et al., 25 Cal. 119.

150. See further, § 193, sub-head; “ Law of the Case.” No. 232.

151. Writ of error to the Supreme Court of the United States. and
proceedings connected therewith. .

152. When writ of errors lies.—-The true test as to whethera writ of
errors lies to the Supreme Court of the United States from the iinal judgment
of a State Court is to he arrived at, not from more averment in the pleadings,
but from the matter decided, as developed in the whole record. Greely v.
Townsend et a1., 25 Cal. 614.

153. A writ of error does not lie to the Supreme Court of the United States
from the judgment of the Supreme Court of this State, by which judgment is
decided that where a State school land warrant is located upon lands previously
occupied and settled upon by another. and pre-empted by him, under the laws
of the United States, the patent issued by the State, under the location, is void,
and the patentee cannot maintain an action against the pre-em tioner to recover possession of the same. Athearn v. Poppe, and Bours v. alsh, 25 Cal.
632.

154. The construction of an act of Congress was not necessary in renderi
such judgment, but the State law under which the warrant was located afford
a rule for the complete determination of the rights of the party who made the
location. Id.

155. When a final judgment in a suit has been rendered in the highest Court
of law or equity of a State in which a decision in the suit could be had,
and a writ of error has been issued by the Clerk of the Circuit Court
of the United States, directed to the Judges of the Court in which the
judgment was rendered, commanding that the record be sent before the
Supreme Court of the United States to be there reviewed. The presiding
Judge of the Court in which the judgment was rendered, is not compelled, as
a matter of right, to award a citation to the respondent to appear before the
Supreme Court of the United States to maintain the validity of his judgment,
but he may look into the record for the purpose of determining whether in his
opinion the jud ent is one from which a writ of error lies, and if he de;el'1é]lll1e8 that it not, he may refuse the citation. Greely v. Ibumsend et aL,

5 a . 608.

156. The granting of a citation is not a mere ministerial act, but one of

judicial discretion. Id.

157. Writ of error from judgment concerning pueblo lands.—A writ
of _error does lie to the Supreme Court of the United States from a judgment
rendered by the Supreme Court of this State, by which it is decided that
the City of San Francisco was, at the date of the conquest and ceasion of
California, and long prior thereto, a pueblo, and that as such pueblo she had

a title to the lands within her general limits, and that such lands were held
by the city in trust for public uses, and were not, either under the old overnment or the new, the subject of seizure and sale under execution issu on

a judgment against the city. Id.

158. Citation upon writ of error and undertaking thereon.—The
Judge of the United States District Court for the District of Oregon has no
authority, while holding the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of California. to sign a citation upon a writ of error from the Supreme
Court of the United States to the Supreme Court of this State; nor has he
authority to take and approve of the security required in order to make the

writ of error a supersedeas and operate as a stay of execution upon the judgment to be reviewed. flbmplcins v. Mahoney, 32 Cal. 231.

159. Finding.-—What questions will be considered_in the Supreme Court.
See ante, Q 180, note No. 46.

N160§ Refereds report.—When it will be renewed. See ante, § 187, note
0. 4 .

§ 346. ‘Appellant shall furnish requisite papers.

On an appeal from a final judgment, the appellant shall
furnish the Court with a transcript of the notice of appeal,
the pleadings, or amended pleadings, as the case may be,
which form the issues tried in the case, the judgment, and
such other parts of the judgment roll, and no more, as are
necessary to present or explain the points relied on, and the
statement, if there be one, certified by the attorneys of the
parties to the appeal, or by the Clerk, to be correct. On appeal from a judgment rendered on an appeal, or from an
order, the appellant shall furnish the Court with a copy of the
notice of appeal, the judgment or order appealed from, and

a copy of the papers used on the hearing in the Court below,
such copies to be certided in like manner to be correct. If
any written opinion be placed on file in rendering the judgment or making the order in the Court below, a copy shall
be furnished. If the appellant fail to furnish the requisite

papers, the appeal may be dismissed.
‘Amended Stat. 1854, 91; 1864, 247. '

1. Notice of appea1.—It is not necessary that there should be a direct
statement in a transcri t of the fact of service of a notice of a peal. Itis
sumcient within the e laid down in 8 Cal. 340, and 10 Cal. 49 , if there is

a notice of a peal in the record with acknowledgment of service rendered
thereon. est. Pacific R. R. Co. v. Reed, Jan. T. 1867.

2. If the attorney of the parties stipulate in the transcript that notice of
appeal was nled in the Court below, and served, the Supreme Court cannot
receive evidence contradicting the stipulation, and will not dismiss the a

81 23 the ground that no notice was in fact filed. Bonds v. Hickman,

. 0.

3. Undertak'lng.—A statement in the transcript that an undertaking in due
form was filed within the time presented, is suillcient, or a co méa&be given.
Walaeman v. Coleman, 28 Cal. 5 ; Franklin v. Goodman, Oct. . 1 .

_ 540.

4. Transcri _ts.used onappeal to this Court must show thatanundei-tah'ng
has been ill in due time, and thata notice of the aggal has been duly
served upon the other side. F5-anlclin v. Rainer, 8 Cal. .

5. Parties intending to take advantage of the failure to hie the requisite
1éx;iie3rt5a§hing, must do so before the case is submitted. Cook v. Klmlc, 8

6. '£ransoript on appeal from an order granting or refusing a new
trial.—On appeal from an order granting or refusing a new trial, there is no
necessity for preparing a statement on appeal—the statement on motion for
new trial being sumcient. Louclcs V. Edmondson, 18 Cal. 203.

7. When an appeal is taken from an order  or refusing a new trial.’
no statement on appeal need be made or me after e entry of the order. but
the statement prepared and used on the hearing of the motion in the Court

below will be sumcient in the Supreme Court. Walden v. Mwdock, 23 Cal.

8. Upon an appeal to the Supreme Court from an order denying a new

trial, the a pellant must furnish the Supreme Court with a copy of the

papers used) on the hearing of the motion for new trial in the Court below,

and if he fail to do so, the appeal will, on motion, be  Bodley V.
et als., 25 Cal. 584.

9. If the Court below denies a new trial, on the ground that the evidence is
insnmcient to sustain the cause of action alleged, and an appeal is taken from
the order, the transcript must contain an authenticated copy of the leadings,
or an agreed statement of their contents. McQuade v. Whaley, 29 aL 612.

10. An order denying or granting a new trial is not one of the orders refered to in section three hundred and thirty-eight of the Practice Act, to
yssgiich a statement may be annexed on appeal. Quivey v. Gambed, 32 Cal.
11. On a peal from an order den 'ng a new trial, the appellant is only required to urnish the appellate urt with 'copies of the notice of appeal,
order ap led from, and of the a re used on t ‘e hearing of the motion for
new trialMi,r‘1 the Court below. a v. Coleman, 28 Cal. 58.

12. The record on appeal from the order grantin or denying a new trial
consists of the amidavits and statement upon which e motion was made, in
connection with such pleading, depositions and minutes. as were read and refierrlegl 7to, identified by the certilicate of the J ndge. Wetlierbee v. Davis, Oct.

. 6 .

13. Onanappealfromanorderdismissingamotion tom-anewt:rIal:—
When the only point is as to whether the statementwas filed in time, it is not
1(1;e‘<:Les:ary to insert the statement itself in the record. Harper v. Minor, 27

09.

14. On an appeal from an order made after anal ju.dgment.—'l‘he
transcript should contain a copy of the order appealed from, and copies of all
the papers used on the hearing when the order was made by the Court below.
Glidden v. Packard, 28 Cal. 649..

15. On an appeal from an order made on adldavlts filed, no statement is
necessary. The allidavits must be annexed to the order, in place of a statement,
and the certificate of the Clerk should specify the affidavits used ; and to enable
him to do so, he should, at the time, mark them as died on the motion. Paine
V. Dinhill, 10 Cal. 37 0.

16. Where a notice of motion to dismiss a complaint on speoined
grounds is given, to obtain a review of the order made on the motion, the record
must disclose the papers read or the evidence ofered in their support. Frsbora
Y. Glaser, 10 CaL 337.

17‘. On appeal from a jndgment.—Ii’no errors are assigned in the record,
the appellate Court will only review the judgment roll. Millard v. Hathaway

4111., 27 Cal. 119.
18. A statement, which does not art to be a statement on appeal. cannot

be considered on an appeal from Judgment. Levy v. Gamma, 27 Cal. 686.

19. I've amealssinthesameoase,'t:ransorlpts.—-.1: the plui.nh°£an|I
defendantsach appealtromdiferentpozrtionsofthesame jud.gmant,andthe
partiesdomtstimilatethateithertmscriptmaybeaddedtotheiotheneach
appeal mustbe heard on its own transcript. Fair v. Steuenat, 29 Cal. 486.

20. Amdavltn nled by a defendant in opposition to an application for an
injunction made upon the complaint alone are art of the record, and upon
appeal from the order may be considered, altho not embraced in the statement. Gagliardo v. G1-ippcnet al., 22 Cal. 362.

21. Nor do affidavite used on motion to open the judgment form any part
of the record, where there is no certincate of the Judge a clerk or admission
of counsel that they were used for that p se. Bitter v. Mason, 11 Cal. 214.

22. The Supreme Court willnot notice vita where there is nothing in
Eetranscripttoshowthatthe were read or refared to at the trial in the
Court below. Fowler etal. v. izrbau, Jan. 1‘. 1865.

23. Lost record, how supplled——Where an appeal has been taken to the
Supreme Court, andthetranscript cannotbe made out, by-reasonof the loss
of aportionofthereeordsof the case from the filesof theCourt, it is_the

'dutyoftheappellantto:movetheCourtbelow,at the earliest time possible,

tosupplvthelostpapersby ' orbysomeothermeansunderitscontrol.
.BIeIcuaaav. Wltitaeyetak, 24 al. 267.

24. If material portions of the statement, or motion for new trial, or of the
papers referred to in the statement, have been lost, and are not supplied and
substituted by the District Court. an appeal from the order denying a new trial
will be dismissed. Buclcman v. Whitney, 28 Cal. 555.

25. If either party is dissatisned with an order of the District Court in supplying a lost record, it may be reviewed lxeau appeal from the order. Id.

26. If the record or a portion of it in District Court .has been lost, and
either party desires to appeal, an order of the Dhtrictcourt reciting the copies
of the lost papers have been furnished, and directing that such copies may be
used on appeal to the Supreme Court, is not an order substituting and supplying the lost record, and there is no record in the District Court from which a
transcript on appeal can be taken. Id.

27. An appellant cannot leave out of the transcript any portion of the
statement as settled, unless on stipulation of the other party. Kimball 17.
Sample, 31 Cal. 657.

28. ‘Whatshouldbeanltted.-The clerk’s minutes at a trial. People V.
Empire G. (I? 8. 00., Oct T. 1867.

29. A copyof the minutesof the Court,as kept bythe clerk during the
yrogressof thetrial. MmdocI°neConmtyv. Morris, 32Cal.145.

30. Matte-thatdoesnottendinsome degreetoillnstratethe points made
 Estate of Boyd. 250:]. 512.

31. amended complaint and answer are filed, and no question arises
ontheoriginal pleading, itis notnecessaryto include theminthe transcript
on appeal. Man-iner v. Smith, 27 Cal. 649.
o32.TA }§ls17of exceptionsis a part of the judgment roll. , Wetherbee v._Davis,

ct. . .

33. Judgment ro1l.—-See ante, §203.

34. Btlpnlatlous. walverl. eto.—A stipulation inserted in the trauscri t
and not embodied in a statement or bill of exce tions, forms no part of e
record which this Court can notice. Bitter v. ason, 11 Cal. 214.

35. Where there is in the ' t a stipulation by the parties that “ the
plaintid’ duly excepted” to the “ sndeaohpart thereof," itwillbe
construed as a stipulation that the exceptions were sumciently speciiied to
render them available. Bowman 7. Cudwarth, 31 Cal. 148.

, 36. If the attorneys for t and respondent stipulate in writing that
the statement contained in e record is a correct statement on motion for a
new trial, and that the judgment roll, orders and instructions given and
refused by the Court, the statement and stigtzlation constitute a true and
correct statement on appeal tothe Supreme urt,andmaybensedassuoh

without further certincate or identincation; all technical objections to the
transcri t are waived, and it will be resumed that a notice of motion for a
new tri was re ly given, althoug none appear in the record. Godcltasa
v. Mal ord, 26 al. 319.

37. a case is submitted on its merits by consent of counsel, this submission, even if made before the day the case 13 set for argument, is a waiver of
technical objections to the transcript. St. John v. Kidd, 26 Cal. 265.

38. Where a com laint appears in a transcript on appeal without an indorsement as med, e party who brings it up as a part 0 the record, wi out
moving to strike it out or to correct the record, is estopped to deny that it was
duly died. Mahlstadt v. Blane, Jan. T. 1868. '

39. It is the duty of the appellant to attend to clerical and typographical
errors, and see that each transcript is a co y of the ori 'nal in al respects

other than maps and surveys. Franklin v. man, 31 al. 458; Kimball v.
Sample, 31 Id. 657.

40. Amendment: to transcrlpt.—If a case is on the calendar and submitted for decision on briefs to be dled in vacation, it will require a strong
showing to justify this Court, on motion made at the next term, in  '
additions to the transcrlipt to be made of matters before deliberate y omi
by the moving . etchum v. Crippen, 31 Cal. 365. See post, Appendix,
Supreme Court ules, No. XII.

41. Enforcement of judgments of supreme court.-—The Supreme Court
cannot revise its own judgments, but when roceedings founded on them are
brought up for review, it will make such or era as are necessary to cause the

judgment to be enforced. Id. Argenti v. City of San Francisco, 30 Cal. 458.

42. Dismissal of appea].—An appeal will not be dismissed on the ground
of insuiiiciency in the justification of the sureties on the undertaking, when
the undertaking was both to render the appeal effectual and to stay execution, and the justification was sumcient for the former purpose. Dobbins v.
Dollarhide, 15 Cal. 374.

43. Where there are no assignments of error by the appellant, the judgment of the Court below will be affirmed. People v. Goldbury, 10 Cal. 312.

44. Where there is no assignment of errors, or statement of the points and
authorities on which the appellant relies, the appeal will be dismissed. People
v. Comedo, 11 Cal. 70; Id. 129.

45. An order vacating a dismissal of appeal, obtained upon a sti nlation
signed by counsel for respondent in i orance of the dismissal, ' be set
aside on his motion. Noriega v. Knig . 20 Cal. 172.

46. It is no proper ground for a motion to dismiss an appeal, that it is
sham and frivolous. An appeal is a matter of right, and cannot be defeated
because the ap 1 may be groundless. Riclcctson v. Compton, 23 Cal. 636.

47. In . Administrator, v. Dunn (Jan. T. 1868) the appeal was dis See statement of facts; dismissal of appeal; see ante, Q 337, note 0.

48. Appeal dismissed without prejudice to a new appeal.—Appeal
dismissed without rejudice to a second appeal, and permission given to use
téiael trgéiscript on e if a second appeal be taken. Gordon v. Wansey et al. 19

43. The dismissal in this case was without prejudice to a second appeal ; permission was given to use the transcript on file in case of a second appeal.
Davling v. Moore, 19 Cal. 81.

50. Dismissal of appeal, edbct of.—A dismissal of an appeal b the Snpreme Court is, in legal effect, an alllrmance of the judgment of e Court
elow, as conclusive and binding upon the parties, and the Court as a direct
judgment of amrmance, unless the appellant obtains an order setting aside the
dismissal and reinstating his appeal before the adjournment of the term. Rotoland v. Kreyenltagen. 24 Cal. 57.
51. Where an appeal, regularly taken, is dismissed for want of prosecution,
the dismissal operates as an amrmance of the judgment below, and a second
appeal cannot be allowed. Id ; Chamberlain v. Reed, 16 Cal. 207.

52. The only mode of avoiding the consequence of such dismissal is to move,
durin the term, or before the rcmiditur has gone out, to vacate the order of dis’ and reinstate the cause. Id.

53. The case in which dismissal of an appeal will not ‘operate as a bar to a
second appeal. and hence, not as an affirmance of the judgment below, are those
where the dismissal has been made upon some technical defect in the notice of
appeal, or the undertaking, or the like. The bar operates where the dismissal
is for want of prosecution, and the order is not vacated during the term, or the
dismissal is on the merits. Earth v. Light, 15 Cal. 324.

54. Fraud in procuring dismissal of appeai.—If an fraud or imposition has been practiced upon the Court, or the oppos to party, b the
party procuring the dismissal, or the order of dismissal has been improvi ently

nted upon a false suggestion, or under a mistake as to the facts of the case,

e appellate Court will recall the remittitur and stay proceedings in the Court
below, and assert its jurisdiction. even alter the adjournment of the term, upon
the ground that jurisdiction cannot be divested by an irregular or an improvident order, and that the order is a nullity. Rowland v. Krcyenhagcn, 24 Cal. 52.

55. District courts have no jurisdiction to determine what apers 215?
beused on appeal to the Supreme Court. Buclcman v. Whitney, 8 Cal. .

56. Generai1y.—-An affidavit of one of the attorneys in‘ a cause showing
the objections made to the selection of the jury, althou h copied into the
transcript, is no part of the record, and thereforee cannot noticed. Magoo
v. The oloelumne Hill Company, 5 Cal. 258.

57. A statement of the contents of the pleadings made by appellant's
counsel, and placed in the transcript, but not agreed to by the opposite attorney, or included in the settled statement, constitutes no part of the record.
HcQuade v. Whaley, 29 Cal. 612.

58. An appeal susfpends the operation of a judgment, and while pending,
the may in whose avor it is rendered has no vested right in the ‘udgment,
but ' right is limited to his cause of action. People v. Frisbic, Cal. 137.

59. The Justices of the Supreme Court do not take from the clerk's office
or examine the ori ' transcript, unless it contains the only copy of a map
or survey. Fran in v. Goodman, 31 Cal. 458.

60. An erroneous judgment cannot be corrected by bringing suit in the
nature of abill of review. The proper method is by appeal. Savings and
Loan Society v. Thompson, Oct. T. 186 .

61. When counsel in the argument of a case assume a certain principle advanced by them as correct law, and the Court decides the case upon the
assumption thus made by counsel without discussing the correctness of this
assumption, the opinion is not authority that such assumption is correct law.
Donner v. Palmer, 31 Cal. 500.

62. The respondent on an appeal to the Supreme Court is at libert to suggest any ground that he may choose, to show that the ruling of t e Court
below was right, whether the grounds suggested were advanced in the discussion
before the Court below or not, while the appellant is confined to the objections
urged in the Court below. Clarke v. Huber, 25 Cal. 598.

63. ‘IA judgment in another case printed in the transcript on appeal from an
order refusing to dissolve an injunction which is not made a part of the comlaint or answer by averment, and was not one of the papers upon which the
junction was granted, or upon which the motion to dissolve was heard, is not
a part of the record. Sanchez v. Can-iaga, 31 Cal. 170.

64. If on the rendition of a final judgment the Court also grants a perpetual
injunction, and an appeal is taken from the whole jud cut, the injunction is
included in the appea . Mctiarrahan v. Maxwell, 28 Ca . 75.

TITLE XXX.

CHAPTER II.-Appeals to the Supreme Court from the District
Courts.

Samoa 347. When an appeal may be taken.
348. A pellant shall file undertaking within uve days.
349. ndertaking on ap from a money judgment.
350. Appeal from a j ant for delivery of document: or

personal pro y.
351. Appeal from a  nt directing the execution of a conveyance, etc.

352. Undertaking on appeal from a judgment concerning real
P1‘°P°¥'U358.8taofroceedings.Thesecurl onappealmabe
in case of executor, etc. ty y
354. Pndlefirtaking nfiay be in one .i:s&t1-ument or several.
55. us‘ cationo sureties on u erta.lnng' one peal.
356. Undertaking in cases not specided above. P
357. Appeals may be brought to a hearing on notice.
358. On ju ent on appeal, a remittitur shall be oertided to
the lerk of the Court below.

§847. ‘When an appeal may be (alum.

An appeal may be taken to the Supreme Court from the
District Courts in the following cases:

F£rst—From a final judgment entered in an action or
special proceeding commenced in those Courts, or brought

into those Courts from other Courts.

Secomt'—From an order granting or refusing a new trial;
from an order granting or dissolving an injunction; from an
order refusing to grant or dissolve an injunction; from an
order dissolving or refusing to dissolve an attachment; from
any special order made after final judgment, and from such
interlocutory judgment in actions for partition as determines
the rights and interests of the respective parties, and directs

partition to be made.

‘ Amended Stat. 1854, 92; 1863, 757; 1866, 707. As todednition of “ order,"
see post, $515, of “ final judgment,” ante, § 144, 1-14.

1. An appeal will lie:-From a judgment or order putting a party in contempt. Ezparte Rowe, 7 Cal. 175; Ware v. Robinson, 9 Cal. 107.

2. Fro anorder setting asideadnal decreeinequityand gran ' a
hearing.mRiddle v. Baloer, 13 Cal. 295. tmg re3. From an order changing the judgment. Bryan v. Berry, 8 Cal. 130.
4. From an order refusing to quash an execution. Gilman v. Oontra Costa

Count , 8 Cal. 52. _
5. in error of law excepted to, an appeal hes without motion for new

trial. .Ricev.G‘aslu'ri6. 13 Cal.53. ,_.__

6. an appeal lies from an order setting aside a iinal decree in eqnig and

granting a rehearing, as it is in effect granting a new trial. Riddle v.
3 Cal. 302.

7. In suit by a stockholder against a corporation and its ofdcers, praying
for their removal, and for an account and settlement of the affairs of the corporation, the decree, after a full hearing on the merits, was in accordance
with the prayer; and also appointed a receiver to take c e of the property
of the corporation until the further order of the Court; co ect money due or
to become due it; sell certain stock, and pay the proceeds in accordance with
the decree, etc. Held, that this provision in the decree does not destro its

edect as a final decree, and that an appeal lies therefrom. N call v. H ' , 16 _

Cal. 145.

8. Pease, who had instituted a suit in the Supreme Court of New York
against defendants, moved the Fourth District Court of this State, where the
suit of Adams v. Woods at al. was pending, for an order on Naglee—receiver
in this last suit, and as such ha ' in his possession the books of the hrm—
to attach certain of those books his deposition to be taken under commission from New York in the suit there. The Court below ordered the books
to be delivered to Wells, Fargo & Co., to be by them taken to New York, and
after being used on the trial in Pease’s suit, to be returned to Naglee. Held,
that this intervention by Pease is in effect a special proceeding, involving new
and distinct rights, and that the order is not interlocutory, and may be appealed from. Adams v. Woods, 18 Cal. 30.

9. An appeal to a demurrer for want of proper parties is good, where it is
determined by the Court that a substantial right is adected by the omission to
Join such (part . Burgoyne v. Holmes, 3 Cal. 50.

t

10. Un ~r t e act regulating appea1s,_passed the twenty-sixth of April, 1851,

an a peal lies from every order and decision of an inferior Court wlnch affects
a su tantzial right. Id.

11. An appeal lies from a judgment in a proceeding to condemn lands to
the use of a corporation, and from an order granting or refusinggpl new '

after judgment in such proceeding. _ San Francisco and San Jose ilroad .

v. Mahoney, 29 Cal. 112. From a J11 ent in an insolvent case to the Snpreme Court. People v. Rosborough, 2 Cal. 415.

12. From an order made by a Judge at Chambers, setting aside an execution
Egg perpetually staying the enforcement of the same. Bond v. Pacheco, 30 Cal.

13. From a judgment in an action for partition entered upon the condrmation
of the report of the commissioners appointed to make the partition. Peclc V.
Vandenberg, 30 Cal. 11.

14. An order striking out or refusing to strike out statement on motion for
newtrial, is interlocutory to the order granting or refusing to grant a new trial,
which is the linal and appealable one. Ketchum v. Grippen, 31 Cal. 365.

15. An order made b the Judge at Chambers, granting an iniunction, is apDealable. Sullivan v. ;‘he Zriunfo Mining 00., Oct. T. 1866.

16. The fact that judgment has been rendered in the District Court for a sum

than $300 does not oust the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court,
grotyiqciledsthe sum sued for in the complaint amounts to $300. Solomon v. Reese,

0 , . 67. .

17. In proceeding to condemn land for railroad purposes, the decision of the
Court by which the merits of the matter are finally determined is a final jnd
men‘, rendered in a special proceeding, for which an appeal may be taken, ting

cannot. thereforee, be reviewed by a writ of error. Sacramento, P. cf: N. R. .
Co. v. Harlan, 24 Cal. 334.

18. No appeal will lie.

I 90. Proms? order refusing or granting a change of venue‘. Id.; Jinan v.
, d. 439.

1. From a judgment of nonsnit entered on motion of plaintifff. 6 Cal. 666.

.227 From an or er made before dual judgment refusing to transfer a cause

from a District Court of this State to a Court of the United States, because of

50 Iiienage of defendant. Hopper v. Kallcman, 17 Cal 617; Brooks v. Oat‘lwood. 19 Id. 124.

23. As no appeal lies from such order, the Supreme Court has no jurisdiction on such appeal to pass upon the merits of the motion to transfer the
cause, even wit the consent of the parties. Id.

24. From an order refnsin to set aside a former order. Hcnly v. Hastings,
3 Cal. 341; Born v. Volcano . 00., 18 Cal. 141.

25. From a mere decision on demurrer before dual judgment. Moruga v.
Emcric. 4 Cal. 308.

26. From an order making a new party defendant. Beck v. City of San
Ftuncisco, 4 Cal. 375.

27. From an order refusing to grant a commission to take testimony. People v. Stillman, 7 Cal. 117.

28. From an interlocutory order, except in the cases provided by statute.
Such order can onlgobe reviewed on appeal from the hnal judgment. De Barry
v. Lambert, 10 Cal. 3.

29. An appeal will not lie from an order of Court refusing to set aside an
interlocutory jugfment. It should be taken upon the order itself. Steam: v.
Marvin. 3 Cal. 6.

30. By the amended Practice Act, an ap l does not lie from an interlocutory order. The People v. Thurston, 5 C . 517.

31. Appeals from interlocutory orders are the creations of statute, and cannot be extended by implication. Juan v. Ingoldsby, 6 Cal. 439.

32. An order settin aside the report of a referee appointed to take an account, is merely inter ocutory, and is not the sub‘ect of appeal before nnsl
ju ent or decree. Johnson v. Doplcins, 6 Cal. 3.

3 . An order refusing to issue a commission to take testimony, and an
order refusing to change the venue, are not appealable orders, thou h they
may be reviewed opvplppeal from final judgment. People v. Stillman. 7 al. 117.

34. This Court ' not hear any objections to an order entered in the

Court below by consent of arties. Meerholz v. Sessions, 9 Cal. 277.
35. An order setting asi e the findin of a referee in a divorce case, and
sending the case back to the referee for urther testimony, is interlocutory in

its character and not the subject of appeal. Baker v. Baker, 10 Cal. 527.

36. No appeal lies to the Supreme Court from an order of the Court below
overruling a demurrer to an indictment. People v. Ah Fong, 12 Cal. 424.

37. A party cannot appeal from an order overruling a motion for a new
trial, when he fails to prosecute his motion before the District Court. The
failure to pprosecute, in such a case, is an abandonment of the motion. Mahaaey v. tlson, 15 Cal. 43; Frank v. Doanc, 15 Id. 303; Green v. Deane, Id.

39. Where a partéy resorts to a summary remedy by motion to set aside an
order, and has trie the motion on the merits, he cannot fall back and seek
to reverse the order by a direct a peal. Ham v. Volcano Water 00.. 18 Cal. 1-11.

40. No appeal lies from an o er entering a default; and where a default
for not answering is entered several years before final judgment, the defendant may still appeal from the dual judgment at any time within one year
from its rendition, and have the ueston. whether the default was properly
¢(aJnte11';:)lnor2§<>Ct;u 'udicated upon 0 appeal from the judgment. Riclcdson v.

om , . .
B41. an 3311-der denying a motion for leave to intervene Wenborn v.

42. An order made in an action pending in the District Court staying all
proceedings therein until the further direction of the Court, is not an appealable order. The remedy of a goarty prejudiced thereby is by application for
Elgnandamus to compel the urt to proceed. Rhodcsv. Graig, 21 Cal.

43. The Supreme Court has no jurisdiction to review the action of the District Court on appeal from an order recalling an execution for costs, or refusiffg kt; IBBEG onezglgai 2tl§g amount of costs exceeds two hundred dollars.

as v. arms, .

45_. On an appeal from an order made after final judgment directing a
receiver to pay over to the prevailing party monies in his hands, the Supreme

G0l1C1:l¢:lén0t reverse the order appointing the receiver. Whitney v. Buclcman,
26 . 1.

46. An appeal does not lie from an order directi a statement on motion
for a new trial to be settled. Le0ingwell v. Griping, Cal. 192.

47. An appeal does not lie from an order striking out astatement on motion
for a new trial.  v. Ga-mbert, 32 Cal. 304.

48. No appeal lies from an order striking out a statement, or from an order
denying a motion to certify a statement. Genella v. Relyea, 32 CaL 159.

49. A plaintifff cannot appeal from a judgment of nonsuit rendered on his own
motion. Sleeper v. Kelly et a1., 22 Cal. 456.

50. An order refusing to strike out a statement made on motion for a new
trial. is not an a pealable order. It is not -‘ a special order made after final
judgment” with n the meaning of sections 336 and 347 of the Practice Act.
Ketclaum v. Crippen, 31 Cal. 365.

51. No appeal lies directly from an order overruling exceptions to a referee's
report. Peck v. Courtis, 31 Cal. 207.

52. No appeal lies from an order refusing to amend an order allowing time
to move for a new trial. Pendegast v. Know, 32 Cal. 73.

53. No appeal lies from an order striking out a statement prepared and filed

on motion for a new trial. Id.

54. If the plaintifff dismisses the action before trial, and the Court, on defendant’s motion, makes an order restoring the cause to the calendar for trial,
no appeal lies from this order. Dimiclc v. Deringer, 32 Cal. 488.

55. General1y.—-A party cannot be permitted to prosecute two separate and
distinct remedies in the Supreme Court for a review of the same question at
the same time. Kirk v. Reynolds, 12 Cal. 99.

56. An appeal from a judgment, and from an order denying a new trial,
may each bteeprosecuted se arately in the same action, or the two appeals may
be rosecu together. tier v. William.-ionet al., 25 Cal. 159.

. Query : Can an appea be taken from an order of a Court Commissioner dissolving an injunction, without first ap&lyin§7to the District Court to
correct the error. Stone v. Bunker Hill 00., 28 . 4 .

58. If testimony, not competent in law, to prove a fact, is admitted without objection, and the testimony is treated by the parties as competent in
the Court below, the question as to its com tency cannot be raised in the
ap llate Court. Curiae v. Paclcard, 29 Cal. 94. 9. As to the right of appeal there is no distinction between judgments by
default and 'udgments after issue joined and a trial, nor between cases once
9r8n0  cases at law and cases in equity. Halloclc v. Jandin ct 00., Oct.

. 1 . 1

60. Where a party appeals from a judgment after it has been vacated and
set asideb an order granting a new trial, the appeal willbe  Kmoer
v. Gluclc, ct. T. 186 .

61. Orders in part:ltion.—An"appeal does not lie from an interlocutory
judgment, rendered in an action for partition, determining the interests of
go several  and a pointii? a refere2e8 tgalmglgrg a partition and report

e same to e urt. v. olomon, . .

62. If the interlocutory judgment in partition adjudges that one of the
g'ties1;h1a%iici interest in the rclic , it is not 306631 juiigment as to him,

mw'c eeanap. ec v. andenberg, .1.

63. On the 22d of ril, 1863, no appeal coullgl bgdtakennfrom an interlopcgi
tory ju ent, in an action or tion to in e. orwasan ap
from me a ju ent, rendered fore the passage of the act, given, by the
act of March 2 , 1864. Id. No appeal lies from an order sustaining or over a  a iinal judgment is rendered in the cause. Maulton
v. , . .

64. :l.‘he act ‘of 1864, allowing appeals to be taken froman interlocutory
order in partition, determimng the ri hts of several parties and directing a
partition, does not a‘plpl&nto such ju ents rendered before its passage.
Peck v. Oourtis, 31 C .

65. Rev-lewafordordenylngoosta-An errorof thecourt, in refusing
to allow a party costs, cannot be reviewed on an appeal from an order deny‘ a new trial. Stweasonv. Smith, 28 Cal. 102.

‘£6. An appfeal cannot be taken from an order denying a motion to retux

oostsmade orednaljndginent. Leuyv. Getteson, 27 Cal. 686.

67. Appeal from order refusing to retax costs.—An order denying a
motion to retax costs should be reviewed by an :;ppeal from the judgment,

and annexin a statement to the judgment roll. d
68. An or er made on a motion to retax costs is not pealable. The error

%an be revised only on an appeal from the judgment. Icy v. Davis, Oct.
. 1867.

§ 348. Appellant shall file undertaking within five days.

To render an appeal effectual for any purpose, in any case,
a written undertaking shall be executed on the part of the
appellant, by at least two sureties, to the effect that the
appellant will pay all damages and costs which may be
awarded against him on the appeal, not exceeding three hundred dollars ; or that sum shall be deposited with the clerk
with whom the judgment or order was entered, to abide the
event of the appeal. Such undertaking shall be Eled, or such
deposit made, with the Clerk within five days after the notice

of appeal is filed.

See post, § 355;, N. Y. Code, § 334; Bancroft’s Forms, 485. Certain parties
not required to give an undertaking. See notes to § 76 and 337, mate.

1. Construing sections three hundred and forty-eight and three hundred and
thirty-seven of the Practice Act together, they provide that an appeal is not
odectual for any purpose unless an undertaking be filed or a deposit made
with the clerk within dve days after filing the notice; and» failure to so file
the undertaking or make the deposit will be fatal to the pea], and it must
be dismissed. Elliot v. Chapman, 15 Cal. 383; Gordon 1'. ansey. 19 Cal. 82,
amrming the last case.

2. Execution and iormal parts of 'undertaklng.—Under our statutes,
'gndert%kings are on the same footing with bonds. Canfield v. Bates, 13

al. 60 .

3. The execution of the paper, the delivery of it to the clerk, filing it
among the papers, with the emdavit, and the actual suspension of proceedings, is primujizcie a sumcient roof of delivery, if delivery is essential, as if
the instrument were sealed. ore v. Covey, 13 Cal. 502.

4. The stay of proceedings accorded by the statute to the execution of the
undertaking, is a sumcient consideration Id.

5. Where an instrument purporting to be a bond on appeal contains words
of obligation, and has a scroll o posite the name of one of the two signers,
who cotemporaneously verify the nstrnment as their bond, it is the _bond of
both. Cargidd v. Bates, 13 Cal. 606.

6. Where the appeal is bona jtde, and not taken for delay, ap ll'ate Courts
will always permit a new undertaking to be med where the o ' is defective. Coulter v. Starla, 7 Cal. 244. ’

7. Where an appeal has been dismissed for want of a proper bond, and no

Jlnal judgmenthns been rendered, an appeal can be taken at any time within

theperiod allowed by law. Martinez v. Gallardo, 5 Cal. 155.

8. Residence of the sureties, and their occupation, and that the‘ penalty
must be double the amount of the judgment, are directory provisions, and are
intended for the benefit of the other party, and he may waive them. In this

case the respondent treated the appeal as reglulai-I y made, made no motion to
dismiss, issued no execution, and su&‘ered e undertaking to have the full

edect of a regularly executed ilistrument. Dore v. Covey, 13 Cal. 502; Dobbins
v. Della-rhide, 15 Cal. 375.

E19. Thenamesofthesuretiesneednot appear in the hodyofthe papers.

10. The statute requires the places of residence and occupation of the
sureties to be stated in an undertaking on appeal only when a stay of execution upon a ju ent directing the payment of money is sought. Dobbins
v. Dollarhide, 1 Cal. 374.

11. The omission of the words “ to pay to " will not invalidate the obligation of an appeal bond. Even were this not the case, where such an omission
%ccui;’s, leave shouldbe granted to file a good bond. Billings v. Roadhouse, 5

al. 1.

12. An undertaking on an appeal is an independent contract on the part of
the sureties, in which it is not necessary that the a pellant should unite.
Curtis v. Richards, '9 Cal. 33; Tissot v. Darling, 9 Cal. 2 8.

13. But. conceding that there is a necessary discrepancy between the condilion and the penal portion of the bond, it cannot be set up by the obligors, as
the bond would be single, and in a suit thereon the plaintiff would be entitled
to the full amount. Swain v. Graves, 8 Cal. 549.

14. Where a motion to reconsider an a peal was opposed on the ground
that the undertaking on appeal was invalid, and after argument and submission, was denied on this ground: Held that it was then too late for appellant
to appear to file a new undertaking. The offer should have been made before
the motion was submitted. Thvis v. 0’C'onnel, 21 Cal. 512.

15. An undertaking on appeal filed under the three hundred and fortyeighth section of the Practice Act is not invalidated because the sum mentioned exceeds three hundred dollars. Z oller v. McDonald, 23 Cal. 136.

16. Time of Pi1ing.—'I‘lie undertaking on a peal to the Supreme Court
must in all cases be filed within five days after ‘us notice of ap , and the
Court has no power to extend the time. Elliott v. Chapman, 15 al. 383.

17. Construing sections three hundred and forty-eight and three hundred
and thirty-seven of the Practice Act together, they provide that an appeal is
not efectual for any purpose unless an undertaking be filed or a deposit made
with the clerk within five days after tilt the notice; and failure to so his
the undertaking or make the deposit will fatal to the appeal, and it must
be dismissed. Id.

18. The (period of five days fixed by law for filin the undertaking, cannot
be abridge by the error or negli ence of the ap ant; nor can that appellant, by serving a copy of the no ice of a peal Bzfore the original is ed,
keep the respondent watchin the clerk's 0 cc to see when it is done. Hastings v. Hallcclc et al., 10 Cal. 1.

19. If the appellants have been  of no laches in perfecting their
a peal, the Court may enlarge the time or them to file their bond to entitle

em to a stay of roceedings under the statute, and in the meantime order a
stay of all procee in the inferior Court until the extended period shall
have expired; in suc case the Court may impose such terms as shall appear
proper. Bradley v. Hull, 1 Cal. 199.

20. Where an undertaking on appeal is filed within the statutory time, and
the sureties are excepted to, and a pellant gives notice that they will justify,
and both parties appear before t otlieer at the time fixed for justitication,
and a new undertaking is then filed in place of the old one, the appeal will
not be dismissed because the undertaking was not filed within hve days after
dling notice of f(!£geaL Gummins v. Scott, 23 Cal. 526.

21. Elliott v. pman, atiirmed; Robe v. Hamilton, commented on. New
York cases commented on and shown not to be in point as to the necessity of
filing the undertaking on appeal within dve days after notice filed, because
the New York Code dxes no time within which the undertaking must be filed.
Show v. Randall, 15 Cal. 384.

22. Provisions in a statute in regard to the time within which an act is

required to be done, are enerally to be construed as directory; but such a
construction is improper w ere a consequence is attached to a failure to comply with the statute. _ Id. . . .

23. If an undertaking on ap cal is filed before the notice of apwal 1s med
;il(1C:£i1'V690%, the appeal will be ' missed on motion. Oarpentier v. illiamson,

24. Ilfect of filing undertaking.—The perfectingoann appeal does not release the lien acquired by docketing the judgment. v. dams, 6 Cal. 277.

25. Where the notice of appeal recites that the appellant appeals both from
an order granting a writ o assistance and from an order refusing to set it
aside, and the undertaking on a peal stipulates to answer the consequences
of the appeal from the former 0 er only: Held, that this order alone will be
considered b the Supreme Court. Horn v. Volcano Water 00., 18 Cal. 141.

26. An un ertakin in the sum of three hundred dollars, as required by the
three hundred and orty-eighth section of the Practice Act, is sumcient to
perfect such appeal and stay proceedings. Pierson v. Mc0ahi1l, 23 Cal. 249.

27. To render an appeal effectual for any purpose in any case, the nndertakin
or deposit must be given or made. as provided in section three hundred an
forty-eighth. In sections three hundred and forty-nine to three hundred and
fifty-two, inclusive, a stay is ranted by executin another and different undertaking. In the three hundre and fifty-sixth sect on it is provided that in cases
not provided for in the sections above, the givin . the undertaking, or making
the deposit named in section three hundred and gorty-eight, shall stay proceedings in the Court below upon the judgment or order appealed from. Merced
Mini 00. v. Fremont, 7 Cal. 132.

28. ‘here, in an action for personal property, with damages for its detention,
the verdict was for defendant. and subsequently the Court below made an order
granting a new trial. from which order defendant appealed to the Supreme Court,
giving an undertakin for damages and costs under the three hundred and fortye hth section of the%’ractice Act, and the Court below. against the objection
o defendant, proceeded to t the cause a second time when plaintifff had verdict and judgment: Held, t at the judgment must be removed. because the
Court below could not proceed with a second trial until the appeal from the
order was determined. Ford v. Thompson, 19 Cal. 118.

29. On an appeal from an order granting a new trial in such case, the verdict being in favor of the defendant and appellant, an undertakin for damages
and costs, according to section three hundred and forty-eighth o the Practice
Act, is sumcient to stay proceedings pending the appeal. Id.

30. The state or a county need not me an undertak1ng.—Where the
eople of the State are appellants, it is not necessary to file the usual undertakg on appeal. The People v. Clingan, 5 Cal. 389. See ante, § 76, notes (a) (b).
31. No undertaking on appeal is necessary when the appeal is taken by a
county. Warden v. Mendocino County, 32 Cal. 655.

32. A bond to stay roceedings is not necessar in order to perfect an appeal
from a decree of the Bistrict Court of the Unitedy States approvin of a survey
or a Mexican or Spanish grant. Thornton v. Mahoney et aL, 24 Ca 568.

3. Actions on an undertaking on appeal.—Where an ap al is with’
drawn or dismissed by consent of both parties, without bein ed to a final
hearing, no action can be maintained on the appeal bond. 0 v. Hendrick‘
son, 6 Cal. 175.

34. Where, in an action on an appeal bond conditioned to pa the judgment appealed from, if the same should be amrmed by the a& to Court,
it appeared that the judgment a ealed from was reversed, wi directions to
enter a diferent judgment: H , that the conditions of such bond were not
broken, and that no action would lie thereon. Chase v. Rica, 10 Cal. 517.

85. To enable the assignee of a judgment to sue on the a peal bond died
i(1:1athe7cause, he must have an assignment of the bond. oses v. Thorns, 6

. 8 .

36. Where a surety undertakes that his tgrinci al shall pay any judgment
to be rendered, etc., the judgment against e cipal is conclusive against
the surety. Pica v. Webster, 14 Cal. 204.

37. Where an a pea] is taken bya party, and, as a condition to give it ed'ect,
a bond or undertaking with or by sureties is annexed—the undertaking being
executed for the benedt of the appellant-—the law presumes that it was executed at his request ; and proba y no proof of that fact is requisite in a suit
by the suretlji against the appellant for money paid on account of the suretys 1

p. At a events, very slight proof of such request would be required.
Bostic v. Love. 16 Cal. 72.

38. The sureties on an undertaking are entitled to stand on the precise
terms of the contract, and there is no way of extending their liability be end

the stipulation to which they have chosen to bind themselves. Tarpey v. ’chillcnberger, 10 Cal. 399.

39. An undertaking on ap conditioned for the payment of what the

jzggment creditor has no le right to receive, is not, as to such condition,
' ding upon the sureties. Whitn v. Allen, 21 Cal. 233.

40. Where an appeal is dismisse on motion of respondent, based on written consent of the appellant, the dismissal operates as an amrmance of the

judgment, and charges the sureties on the undertaking on appeal. Chase v.
Beraud, 29 Cal. 138.

41. Where an appeal is taken to the Supreme Court from a judgment, by
filing notice of appeal and undertaking, and the ap al is afterwards dismissed by the Supreme Court for failure of the appe t to send up a transgswzrzgigs gr§51ziable on the undertaking on appeal. Ellis v. Hull, 23
§ 349. ‘ Undertaking on appeal from a money judgment.

If the appeal be from a judgment or order directing the
payment of money, it shall not stay the execution of the
judgment or order, unless a written undertaking be executed
on the part of the appellant, by two or more sureties, stating
their places of residence and occupation, to the effect that
they are bound in double the amount named in the judgment
or order; that if the judgment or order appealed from, or
any part thereof, be aliirmed, the appellant shall pay the
amount directed to be paid by the judgment or order, or the
part of such amount as to which the judgment or order shall
be affirmed, if affirmed only in part, and all damages and costs
which shall be awarded against the appellant upon the appeal.
When the judgment or order appealed from is _made payable

in a specified kind of money or currency, the undertaking
required by this section shall be drawn and made payable

in the same kind of money or currency specified in such
judgment.

‘Amended 1863, 690; Bancroft’s Forms, 485. N. Y. Code, § 335. Certain
parties not required to give an undertaking. See ante, § 76, notes (a) (b).

1. By the Code, the undertaking on appeal providing for the liabilities of
the sureties u on condition of the affirmance of the judgment operates as a
stag; and if, y a mere neglect to prosecute the ap eal, and for that reason
su ering it to be dismissed after the respondent as been de rived of his
rights under the judgment by the undertaking, the sureties coul be released
upon the pretense that the judgment was not affirmed, it is evident that great
injustice would in many instances be perpetrated, and a fraud practiced upon

the respondents. Earth v. Light, 15 Cal. 327; Chamber-lin v. Reed, 16 Cal. 207;
Oltase v. Beraud, 99 Id. 138.

2. If, in foreclosure cases, a judgment in personam is rendered against the
defendants, and also one enforcing the lien, and an appeal is taken from the
whole judgment in order to stay proceedings upon the whole 'udgment, the
appellant must file an undertaking for costs, one in double e amount of
the personal judgment, and one for the payment of waste and such deficiency
as may remain due after the sale of the property, and all these undertakings
ma be in one instrument, or several, at the option of the appellant. England
v.  at al., 25 Cal. 356.

3. In such cases, if the undertaking is given only for costs and waste and
dedciency, an execution on the personal judgment is not stayed pending the
appeal; and if the undertaking 18 given only for costs and double the amount
0 the ersonal judgment, an execution for the sale of the property upon
which e lien is foreclosed is not stayed pending the appeal. Id.

4. An appeal will notbe dismissed on the ground of insumcienc in the
' stitication of the sureties on the undertaking, where the undertahing was

th to render the appeal effectual and to stay execution, and the justidcatzion
was sumcient for the former purpose. Dobbins v. Dollarhide, 15 Cal. 374.

5. Where the examination of the sureties does not disclose sufficient property
to make the nndertakin operate as a stay, but does disclose sudicient to render
appeal effectual, respon ent’s remedy is by motion in the Court below for leave
to proceed on the judgment, notwithstanding the undertaking. and not by motion in the Supreme Court to dismiss the appeal. Dobbins v. Dollarhide, 15

Cal. 374.
6. The statute requires the place of residence and occupation of the snreties

to be stated in an undertaking on appeal only when a stay of execution upon
a judgment directing the payment of money is sought. Id.

7. An undertaking without such statement will render the appeal effectual;
and as to the operation of such an undertaking as a stay, this case requires no

decision. Id.

§ 350. Appeal from a judgment for delivery of documents.

If the judgment or order appealed from, direct the assignment or delivery of documents, or personal property, the execution of the judgment or order shall not he stayed by
appeal, unless the things required to be assigned or delivered,
be placed in the custody of such officer or receiver as the
Court may appoint; or unless an undertaking be entered,
into, on the part of the appellant, with at least two sureties,
and in such amount as the Court, or the Judge thereof, or
County Judge, may direct, to the effect that the appellant
will obey the order of the Appellate Court upon the appeal.

N. Y. Code, teas. Seenotes (a) (b), ante g 76.

§ 351. Appeal from a judgment directing the e:cecation‘ of a
conveyance, etc.

If the judgment or order appealed from direct the execution of a conveyance or other instrument, the execution of
the judgment or order shall not he stayed by the appeal
until the instrument is executed and deposited with the Clerk

with whom the judgment or order is entered, to abide the

judgment of the Appellate Court.
See notes (a) (b), § 76, ante.

§ 352. Undertaking on appeal concerm'ng real property.

If the judgment or order appealed from direct the sale, or
delivery of possession of real property, the execution of the
same shall not he stayed, unless a written undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant, with two or more sureties, to the effect that during the possession of such property
by the appellant, he will not commit, or suffer to be committed, any waste thereon, and that if the judgment be affirmed,
he will pay the value of the use and occupation of the property from the time of the appeal until the delivery of possession thereof, pursuant to the judgment or order, not
exceeding a sum to be fixed by the Judge of the Court by
which the judgment was rendered or order made, and which
shall be specified in the undertaking. When the judgment
is for the sale of mortgaged premises, and the payment of a
deficiency arising upon the sale, the undertaking shall also
provide for the payment of such deficiency.

N. Y. Code, § 338; Bancroft’s Forms,-187. See notes(a) (b), ante, § 76.

1. Genera1ly.—Where an appeal is taken from a decree foreclosing a mort
gage by the mortgagor. who is 11] possession of the premises, the statute does
not require an undertaking on appeal, binding the appellant to account to the
plaintifff for the rents, or for the value of the use and occupation of the
premises pending the appeal. Whitney v. Allen, 21 Cal. 233.

2. The provision in section 352 of the Practice Act in regard to use and occupation refers to cases in which the creditor is entitled to the use, and more
particularly to judgments and orders directing a delivery of possession. It
was not intended by this section either to increase the liability of the debtor,
or to subject the sureties to a liability greater than that of the principal. Id.

3. An undertaking on appeal to the Supreme Court, conditioned “ that appellant will pay all costs and damages which may be awarded against him on the
appeal, and also all the rents and profits of the premises in controversy during
the pendency of the appeal not exceeding six hundred dollars,” is sutllcient to
sustain an appeal. Zoller v. McDonald, 23 Cal. 136.

4. One who appeals from a decree in his favor in order to obtain a decree for

larger sum. cannot, pending the appeal, carry into execution the decree.

homton v. Mahoney et aI8., 24 Cal. 584.

5. An appeal duly taken to the Court of last resort, suspends all proceedings
in the Court below. Id.

6. Form of undertaking on appeal.—When the judgment is for the en’
forcement of a lien and a sale of the (property, the undertaking to stay a sale of
the property pending the ap eal nee not provide for the payment of the value
of the use and occupation o the premises. England v. ‘ at al., 25 Cal.
356. '

7. In a case where the judgment directs a sale of real property, the undertaking on appeal, in order to stay a sale. need only provide security against

waste, unless there is a provision in the judgment for the payment of a detlcienw. in which case it must provide for the payment of such deficiency. Id.

8. hen the judgment directs a sale for the purpose of satisfying any lien
other than a mortgage lien, the undertaking on appeal, to stay a sale. need not
prcgidelfor the payment of any deficiency which the judgment may direct to be
pa . d.

9. Stay of proceedings on appeal.—If, in foreclosure cases, a judgment in

personam is rendered against the defendants. and also one enforcing the lien,

and an appeal is taken from the whole judgment, in order to stay proceedings
upon the whole judgment. the a pellant must furnish an undertakin for costsone in double the amount of t e personal judgment, and one for t e payment
of waste and such deficiency as may remain due after the sale of the property ;
and all these undertakings may be in one instrument, or several, at the option
of the appellant. Id.

10. In such cases, if the undertaking is given only for costs. and waste, and
dedciency, an execution on the personal judgment is not stayed pending the
appeal, and if the undertaking is given on y for costs and double the amount of
the personal judgment, an execution for the sale of his property upon which the
lien is foreclosed is not stayed pending the appeal. Id.

11. An appeal from an order refusing to change the venue of an action. operates as a stay of all further proceedings in the case in the Court below until
such appeal is determined. Pierson v. Mcazhill, 23 Cal. 249.

12. Actions on undertaking on appeal.-A right of action on an undertaking, executed to stay a writ of restitution pending on appeal from a judgment
in e'ectment, accrues upon the afllrmance of the judgment, though the liability
of t e obligors may continue until the applicants deliver possession of the premises recovered. De Castro v. Clarice, 29 Cal. 11.

13. The plaintiff in a judgment in ejectment in an action on an undertaking
to stay a writ of restitution pending an appeal, can recover the value of the
use of whatever part of the premises the defendants occupied, if the judgment
is amrmed. Id. Bee ante, t 348.

§ 353. ‘Stay of proceedings. The security on appeal may be
limited in the case of an execution, etc.

Whenever an appeal is perfected, as provided in the preceding sections in this chapter, it shall stay all further proceedings in the Court below upon the judgment or order
appealed from, or upon the matters embraced therein; and
on appeal, and filing an appeal bond on appeal from an order
disharging an attachment, said attachment shall not be dis‘
solved, but shall remain in full force until the cause be dis’
posed of on appeal ; but the Court below may proceed upon
any other matter embraced in the action, and not affected by
the order appealed from. And the Court below may, in its
discretion, dispense with or limit the security required by
said sections, when the appellant is an executor, administrator, trustee, or other person acting in another’s right; pro.
vided, that an appeal shall not continue in force an attachment,
unless an undertaking be executed and filed, on the part of
the appellant, by at least two sureties, in double the amount

of the debt claimed by him, that the appellant will pay all
costs and damages which the respondent may sustain by
reason of the attachment, in case the order of the Court below be sustained; and unless, also, notice of the appeal be
given within five days after service of the notice of the entry

of the order appealed _from, and such appeal be perfected,
and the undertaking in this section mentioned be filed within

five days thereafter.

‘Amended 1865-6, 707. N. Y. Code, § 339. Bancroft’s Forms, 48d.

1. Where a suit is pending in the Sn reme  on appeal, the Judgment
below is suspended for all purposes, an it is not evidence upon the riirestions
at issue, even between the parties. Woodbury v_. Bowman, 13 Cal. 6 .

2. Proceedings stayed upon a ju , pending an appeal, though no undertaking was ‘van. Ross 7. .Aust' , 2 Cal. 183. _ O

3. An a e from an order of reference stays the proceedings. Svmih v.
Poaock, 213;]. 92.

4. Where the sureties to an undertaking, on appeal  the Sn reme Court,
justify in a sum less than double the amount specilied in the un ertaking, but
more than double the amount of three hundred dollars, such undertaking is
irnmcient under section three hundred and forty-eight of the Code, though
insiimcient to stay the issuance of the execution. Molcelumne Hill 00. v.

Woo<£1zu'y, 10 Cal. 185. _ _

5. Where the examination of the sureties does not disclose sunicient property to make the undertaking operate as a stay, but does disclose suiiiclent to
render the appeal effectual, respondent's remedy is by motion in the Court
below for leave to proceed on the j gment, notwithstanding the undertalnng,
and not by motion in the Supreme Court to dismiss the appeal. Dobbins v.
Dollar-hide, 15 Cal. 37 4.

6. A stay of proceedings, from its nature under an appeal, only operates
upon orders or Judgments commanding some act to be done, and does _not
reach a case of injunction. Meroed Mining Co. v. Fremont, 7 Cal. 132; Hicks

V. Michael, 15 Cal. 109.

§ 354. Undertaking may be in one instrument or several.

The undertaking prescribed by sections three hundred and
forty-eight, three hundred and forty-nine, three hundred and
fifty, and three hundred and fifty-two, may be in one instrument, or several, at the option of the appellant.
N. Y. Code, $340. '

§ 355. 1Justg'/ication of sureties an undertaking on appeal.

An undertaking on appeal shall be of no eifect, unless it be
accompanied by the aiiidavit of the sureties that they are
each worth the amount specified therein, over and above all
their just debts and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt
from execution, except where the judgment exceeds three
thousand dollars, and the undertaking is executed by more
than two sureties; they may state in their affidavits that they
are" severally worth amounts less than that expressed in the

undertaking, if the whole amount be equivalent to that of
two sufficient sureties. The adverse party, however, may
except to the sufiiciency of the sureties to the undertaking or
undertakings mentioned in sections three hundred and fortynine, three hundred and fifty, three hundred and fifty-one,
and three hundred and fifty-two, at any time within thirty
days after the filing of such undertaking; and unless they or
other sureties, within twenty days after the appellant or appellants shall have been served with notice of such exception.
justify before a Judge of the Court below, a County Judge,
or County Clerk, upon five days’ notice to the appellant, exe‘
cntion of the judgment or decree appealed from shall be no
longer stayed; and in all cases where an undertaking is re‘
quired on appeal by the provisions of this Act a deposit in
the Court below of the amount of the judgment appealed
from, and three hundred dollars in addition, shall be equivalent to filing the undertaking, and in all cases the undertaking
or deposit may be waived by the written consent of the
respondent.

‘Amended 1854, 92; 1855-6, 708. See ante, § 348; N. Y. Code, § 341; Abb.
Forms, 1898-1899.

1. Time of examinadon of suretlss.—Where a party ve notice of justiiication of the sureties on an undertaking before the k of the Court
below, on the seventh of November, between the hours of ten A. K. and the
P. M. of that day, and the sureties appeared upon such notice soon after ten
of that day: Held, that the clerk acted properly in refusing to take their justification, the opposite party being absent, until the last hour stated in the
notice. Lower v. Know, 10 Cal. 480.

2. Time within which to justify cannot be extended.—‘Where the
respondent gave notice. April 20th, excepting to the sufficiency of the suction
on an undertaking on appeal, and appellant then gave notice that the sureties would justify on the twenty-fifth of the same month, and orders were
afterwards made extendi the time of justification to May 1st: Held, that
the failure of the sureties justify within nve days after notice of exception
to their sumciency rendered the appeal a nullit : that the statute u n this
subject is eremptory; and that the Court h no power to extend a time.
Roush v. on Hagen, 17 Cal. 121.

3. osioen betoro whom to jusuty.-Under the three hundred and fiftyiifth section of the Practice Act, where respondent exce ts to the sureties on

the undertaking on appeal, the snreties must justify be ore a County Judge
of the county where the suit is nding, where that officer is selected. and
where such justification was be ore the County Judge of another county,

Y8l.1%1:1tl(1;6688‘|1l’6ti95 resided, the appeal will be dismissed. Round; 17. Van Hagen,

4. A justification bywthe sureties upon an undertaking on appeal to &e

Supreme Court, made fore 8 Conn J o of a county other than that where
f:2leljl21dglI:fngVlé&S rendered, is not e act for any purpose. Ilwis v. 0’C'on, 1 C . 1 .

5. Under the three hundred and fifty-ufth section of the Practice Act,

where respondent excepts to the sureties on the undertaking on appeal, the
sureties must justify before a County Judge of the county where the suit
is pending, where that officer is selected, and where such justijication ww
be ore the County Judge“ of another county where the sureties resided, the
appeal will be dismissed. Roush 7. Van Hagen, 18 Cal. 668.

6. Failure at suretles on exception.—A failure of sureties upon an
undertaking on appeal to justify. when they are exce ted to, leaves the appeal

as though no undertaking had been nled, and ine ‘ectual for any purpose.
Lower v. Know, 10 Cal. 480.

7. Where the appellant. on an appeal pending from the District Court to
the Supreme Court, med in the clerk’s odice of the District Court his notice
of appeal and undertaking, and the respondent, within the time allowed by
law, excepted to the sumciency of the sureties to the undertaking, and they
failed to yustify to the satisfaction of the clerk of said Court, who issued
execution on said jud ent: Held, that it was error in the Jud e of said

Court to make an 0 er of supersedeus, staying said execution. oleelumne
Hit 00. v.Woodbury, 10 Cal. 188.

8. A new undertaking may be filed. eto.—After notice of exce tion to
the sumciency of the sureties on an undertaking on appeal to the upreme
Court. they cannot justify without notice to the adverse arty; and in this
case, the Justification being made without notice, the appe was ordered to be
dismissed, unless appellants within ten days file a new undertaking, and the
zngletizsi thereon justify, upon notice, to the respondent. Stark v. Barrett, 15

. 3 .

9. When, on account of the insudiciency of the undertaking on appeal,
the appellant dies a new undertaking in the Supreme Court, ap roved by one
of the Justices, . e respondent cannot re uire the sureties in e substituted
undertakingto justify. Stevenson v. Stein g, 32 Cal. 373.

10. The ustice a roving such new undertaking, when called upon to
approve the same, ascertain by examination of the sureties that they possees the necessary qualifications. Id.

11. Waiver of justmcauon of suretles.-If the sureties on an appeal
bond are excepted to, and appear before the Justice to testify, and the p
excepting then states before the Justice that he knows the sureties to be go .
and only excepted because ln‘s attorney told him to do so, this is a waiver of
jnstihcation. Blair 17. Hamilton, 32 Cal. 49-.

12. A party who excepts to the sumciency of streties on an appeal bond,
may waive their justification. Id.

§ 356. Undertaking in cases not specified above.

In cases not provided for in sections three hundred and
forty-nine, three hundred and fifty, three hundred and fiftyone, and three hundred and fifty-two, the perfecting of an
appeal, by giving the undertaking, and the justification’ of
the sureties thereon, if required, or making the deposit
mentioned in section three hundred and forty-eight, shall
stay proceedings in the Court below upon the judgment or
order appealed from ; except that Where it directs the sale
of perishable property, the Court below may order the property to be sold, and the proceeds thereof to be deposited, to
abide the judgment of the Appellate Court. '

N. Y. Code, § 342.
1. In an action for personal property, with damages_'for its detention, the

verdict was for defendant, and subsequently the Court below made an order
nting a new trial, from which order defendant appealed to the Supreme
giving an undertaking for damages and costs, under the three hundred
ty-eighth section of the Practice Act, and then the Court below, against
the objection of defendant, proceeded to t the cause a second time, when
plaintifff had verdict and judgment: Held, t at the judgment must be reversed,
ecause the Court below could not roceed with a second trial until the appeal
from the order was determined. ord v. Thompson, 19 Cal. 118.
2. On appeal from an order granting a new trial, in such a case, the verdict
being in favor of the defendant and appellant, undertaking for damages and
costs according to the three hundred and forty-eighth section of the Pracnce

Act is suliicient to stay proceedings pending the appeal. Id.

§ 357. ‘Appeals may be brought to a hearing on notice.

Appeals in the Supreme Court may be brought to a hearing by either party, upon a notice of three days to the opposite party. Before the argument, each party shall furnish to
the other, and each of the Justices, a copy of his points and
authorities; or either party may file one copy thereof with
the Clerk, who shall cause the requisite copies to be made.

1Amended 1854, 92.

1. Where notice of argument has been given by the appellant, the respondent may move for an affirmance of the judgment ea: parts, although he has
given no notice of argument. BlNNE'1'1‘, J. dissenting. Constant v. Ward, 1

al. 333.
2. The b a decision of the Supreme Court will not be set aside for want

of a for statutory notice of argument, if the adverse party had actual notice, yet a ju ent of amrmance for failure of the appellant to appear will
be set aside, ' he had not actual notice, etc. Lightstone v. Laurencel, 2 Cal.

106.

3. Where counsel, in a cause pending in the Supreme Court, stipulate to
submit the case to the Court on two grounds only. it is a clear waiver of all
other assignments of error, and they will not be allowed to behind such

stipulation, and insist u on points other than those mention in the stipulataon. Cahoon at at. v. ‘bevy, 10 Cal. 216.

§ 358. On judgment on appeal, remittitur shall be certified to
the Clerk of the Court below.

When judgment is rendered upon the appeal, it shall be
certified by the Clerk of the Supreme Court to the Clerk
with whom the judgment roll is filed, or the order appealed
from is entered. In cases of appeal from the judgment, the
Clerk with whom the roll is filed shall attach the certificate
to the judgment roll, and enter a minute of the judgment of

the Supreme Court on the docket against the original entry.
In cases of appeal from an order, the Clerk shall enter at

length in the records of the Court the certificate received,
and minute against the entry of the order appealed from a

reference to the certificate, with a brief statement that such
order has been affirmed, reversed, or modified, as the case
may be, by the Supreme Court, on appeal.

1. The Court below cannot refuse to give effect to the judgment of this
Court; and a‘ judgment entered by the clerk, in such case, is just as bin '
as if entered in the Supreme Court itself. lllclllillan v. Richards, 12 Cal. 46 .

2. Where a case is appealed from the District Court to the Supreme Court,
and the Supreme Court reverses the judgment of the District Court, and

directs the entry of a final judgment, such judgment can be entered by the
clerk of the District Court in e vacation. Id.

M3. The act of the clerk in entering the judgment is a mere ministerial act.
4. The remittitur from this Court is by the direction of the three hundred and
nt%y~eighth section of the Practice Act, to be attached by the clerk of the viatrict Court to the judgment roll, and a minute of the judgment entered on the
docket against the original entry; the judgment of this Court then stands as
the judgment of the District Court. If it award a new trial, the clerk will place
the cause on the calendar; if costs, he will, on the application of the party,

iszpe execution for the same. Mayor, etc., of Marysville v. Buchanan, 3
C . 212.

5. The District Court has no authority to prevent the immediate execution of
the judgment of this Court so remitted. Id.

6. The judgment of this Court upon appeal, and the costs consequent thereon,
is dual. Id. ‘

7. The clerk of this Court, in entering up the judgment, adds the words “ with
costs,” and annexes to the remittilur a copy of the bill of costs filed. These

words are a sunicient awardin of costs for the clerk of the Court below to
issue execution for the same. (1.

8. This Court loses all control and jurisdiction over a case after the remittitur
has been filed in the Court below. Blane v. Bowman, 22 Cal. 23.

9. A motion, thereforee, to vacate a judgment, on the ground that it was not

rendered by the pro er members of the Court, cannot be entertained after the
remittitur has been ed below. Id.

10. District court has no power to modify judgment of supreme
Argenti v. City of San Francisco, 30 Cal. 58; Meyer v. Kohn, Oct.

TITLE XXXI.

CHAPTER III.—Appeals to the Supreme Court from the County
Court.

Section 359. Appeal may be taken from county Court, in certain cases.
360. Security on appeal shall be the same as provided in preceding chapter.
361. Appeals ma be brought to a hearing on notice.
362. Appellant s all furnish papers on appeal.

§ 359. ‘Appeal may be taken from County Court, in certain
cases.

An appeal may be taken to the Supreme Court from a final
judgment of the County Court.

First£y—In an action of forcible entry and detainer ; in an
action to prevent or abate a nuisance; in a proceeding in
insolvency ; in an action wherein the legality of any tax, im
post, assessment, toll, or municipal fine is in question ; and in
any special case within the appellate jurisdiction of the Snpreme Court over which the Legislature may require said
County Court to exercise jurisdiction.

Secondlg/—From an order granting or refusing a new trial ;
from an order granting or dissolving, or an order refusing to
grant or dissolve an injunction; and from any special order
made after final judgment in the cases in this section before

enumerated.

‘Amended 1853, 277; 1854, 93; 1865-6, 846.

1. N o appeal was allowed by law from a County Court to the Supreme Court,
prior to the first day of July, 1854. Middleton v. Gould et aL, 5 Cal. 190.

2. An objection that a County Court has no jurisdiction in cases on appeal,
where no appeal bond is given as required by the statute, should be made in
tbhe Court below. It is too late to raise the question here. Howard v. Harman,

Cal. 7 8. 3. Where such an objection is made within the proper time, it is the duty of
the presiding Judge to hear the excuse of the party failing to produce it, and
if sufficient, to allow him to file a bond. Id.

4. Where a party appealed from a J ustice‘s Court to a County Court, and the
Justice neglected to send up with the record the notice of the appeal : Held, that
it was error to refuse to allow appellant the opportunity of moving to compel
the Justice to send it up, by peremptorily dismissing the appeal. Sherman v.
Rolberg, 9 Cal. 17.

5. The Supreme Court has jurisdiction to hear and determine appeals from
the judgment of the County Court, on questions of fraud made on the petition
(éilan insolvent for a discharge from his debts. Fislc v. His Creditors, 12

. 281.

6. A refusal by the County Court, on appeal from a Justice, to permit an
amendment of the complaint, is matter of discretion, and there being no affidavit of materiality, nor any showing of the importance of the amendment,
this Court will not interfere. Canjield v. Bates, 13 Cal. 606.

7. Where, in an action of forcible entry and detainer, the 'udgment is for
the possession of the premises, and ninety-four dollars, treb e damages, besides costs—the title not being involved—query, whether the Supreme Court
has jurisdiction of an appeal from the County Court. Paul v. Silver, 16 Cal. 73.

8. No appeal will lie from a judgment for two hundred dollars, costs and
per centage. The amount must exceed two hundred dollars—that is, the
amount in dispute. Costs and per cenlage are only incidental to the action.
Zabrislcic v. Terry; Votan v. Reese et al., 20 Cal. 89; Dumphy v. Guindon, 13 Id.
28. [See Meeker v. Harris, 23 Id. 285.]

9. The order of a County Court dismissing an appeal from a Justice's Court
in an action of forcible entry and detainer, is a final ju ent from which an
appeal may be taken to the Supreme Court. Zoller v. cDonald, 23 Cal. 136.

10. The Constitution gives the Supreme Court jurisdiction on appeal from

judgments rendered in contested election cases in the County Courts. Knowles

v. Yeates, 31 Cal. 82.
11. The Supreme Court has appellate jurisdiction from a judgment of the
County Court rendered in an election contest. Day v. Jones, 31 Cal. 261.

§ 360. ‘Security on appeal shall be the same as in preceding
chapter.

Security shall "be given upon such appeals in the same manner, to the same extent, and with the same effect, as in appeals to the Supreme Court from the District Court from
judgments or orders of a similar character, and like justification on the part of the sureties may be required.
not‘eA8mended 1854, 93; 1865-6, 849. See oak, °§ 348 -to 356, inclusive, and

§ 361. ‘Appeal may be brought to a hearing‘ on notice.

Appeals from the County Courts shall be brought to‘ a
hearing in the same manner and upon like notice as appeals
from the District Court.

‘Amended 1854, 93. See ante, § 357 and notes.

1:‘; 362. ‘Appellant shall furnish papers on appeal.
The appellant shall furnish the papers for the Supreme
Court in the same manner as upon appeals from the District

Court.
‘Amended 1853, 277; 1854, 93.

TI T«LE XXXII.

CHAPTER IV .*--Appeals to the  Cburts from the Probate ‘Charts.
Blanca 363. Appeals may be taken from Probate Court.

364. Time within which appeal shall be taken.
885. Appeals shall be hoard-as soon aspossible.

§ 368. Appeals may be taken from Probate Court.

An appeal may be taken from a Probate Court to the District Court of the district inwhich the Probate Court is held,
in.the following cases :

1st. From an order or decree ‘admitting a will to probate,
or refusing the same;

' Sum-ans or 1838. au1;woon's Dreunnl, Anton II“.

Baa-maxim. nan. An ppealmsybeuken to the supremecoumtromlsnordar dean
orjudgmentoftho obot.e0ourt.vhere the eueseeoramountmaxapnzooxooea-civohnn.
dloddonargmthebnowmguou:

1st. ror,ora¢unugrmun¢orrawhn¢.bttontuhmentary,orotadmmstratton.oroc
guardianship;

2d. From an order setting apart property or making an allowance for the widow or children ;

3d. From an order granting letters testamentary or of administration, or appointing a guardian of an infant, or of an
insane person, or of a person incompetent to manage his
property, or refusing to grant such letters, or to make such
appointment, or making such letters or appointment ;

4th. From an order directing the sale or conveyance of
real property ;

5th. From an order or decree by which a debt, claim,
legacy, or distributive share is allowed, or payment thereof
directed; or by which such allowance or direction is refused ;
6th. From an order made on the settlement of an executor, administrator or guardian.
See Belknap’.-:1 Probate Law, pp. 21-22; also pp. 159-161.

§ 364. Time within which appeal shall be taken.

21!. !‘or.oraga.inst.admitt awillto bate:

ad. For, or against, the van ty ofa wi or revoking the probate thereof;

4th. For, or against. so apart property, ormahing an allowance for a widow or child:
15th. For, at ggglnst, the sale or conveyance of real property;

Oth. On settlement of any account of an executor, or administrator. or :

7th. For. or mt, declaring. allowing, or directing. the payment of a bt. claim. legacy

or distributive
Bno. 298. 31855]. The appeal may be taken within sixty days after the order, decree orjudg.

mentismadeandenleredintheminuteeof the Court: it shall be made byillingwith the
Clerk of the Probate Court, a notice stating the appeal from the order, decree or Judgmcn
or some speciilc part thereof, and executing an undertaking. or vlng surety. on such
appeal in the same manner. and to e same extent. as upon an appe

from the District Court; provided. the appeal of an executor or administrator who has
given an omcial bond shall be complete and eifectnal without the undertaking: provided
also, from an ozder, decree or Judgment. made since the nrat day of October. eighteen hundred and nfty-four. the appeal may be taken within sixty days after the passage of this act.
After the appeal is determined, suit may be brought and prosecuted to Judgment, on the
undertaking. in the name of any party benencially interested therein.

8:0. 299. Whenapartywho has a right to IP99“. wishes a statementof thecasetohs
annexed to the record. he shall prepare and file the same within twenty days after the entry
of the order. decree or judgment; provided. it the order, decree orjudgment has been made
since the nrst day or October, ei teen hundred and titty-four. he shall prepare and his such
statement within twenty days r the pan e of this set.

830. 800. The provisions. as amended, of pter I, Title IX. of the act entitled "an act
to regulate proceedings in civil cases in the Courts of Justice in this state." paced April
29th. 1851, soiarasthe samedonotconiiictwiththeprovisionsofthisact, ahallheapplicable to appeals from the Probate court.

Bro. 301. [I861]. When the order or decree a ointing an executor. or administrator. or

sha.llbereversedonappeal.allla actsinadministrstion upon iherstatepeb

ormsd by such executor. or administrator, or guardian, it he shall quality. shall be as valid
as if such order. or decree, had been amrmed. When any executor, or administrator. reaigna
or is removed. a successor may be appointed, it a necessity therelor exists. without again

proving the death and residence of the testator or intestate.

Bno. 801. [l855.] Where it is not otherwise prescribed by law. the Probate Court or the

Supreme Court, onappeal. ma initsdiscretion, order costs tobepaid b anyparl tothe
n or out of the estaze, as Justice may require; execution for file costs msyy issue

out or Pro to Court.

The appeal shall be taken within thirty days after the
order or decree appealed from is entered with the Clerk.

365. Appeals shall be heard as soon as possible.

[1854.] Appeals from the Probate Court shall be brought
to a hearing at the earliest period practicable. For afailure
to prosecute an appeal, or unnecessary delay in bringing it
to a hearing, the District Court may order the appeal to be

dismissed.
‘Amended 1854, 93.

1. The District Court has only original jurisdiction‘ it has no appellate
powers. Cauljield v. Islam. 3 Cal. 389; lander v. Coo, '5 Cal. 230.

TITLE XXXIIII.

Cnsivrsa V.—Appeals to the County &urts from Justices’ and
Recorders’ Courts.

Samoa 366. Appeals maybe taken on questions of law or on questions
of law and fact.
367. Miscellaneous provisions on trials in County Courts.

§ 366. ‘Appeals may be taken on questions of km or on questions of law and fact.

Judgments, in all civil cases rendered by Justices’, Recorders’, and Mayors’ Courts, may be [reviewed] by the County
Court, when the appeal is taken on questions of law, alone,
it shall be heard on a statement of the case prepared as prescribed in Title XVI of this act. When the appeal is taken
on questions of fact, or on questions of both law and fact,

the action shall be tried anew in the County Court, and

either party may, on such trial, demand a jury.

1Amended 1853, 277; 1854, 93. See post, 96 624-628; Bancroft's
Forms, 664.

1. On appeal from a Justice's Court to the County Court, on questions of
law alone, if a new trial be ordered it should take place in the County Court.
People v. Freelon, 8 Cal. 517.

2. The County Court has the sole appellate jurisdiction in all cases, civil
and criminal, arising in Justices’ Courts, subject to such restrictions as the
legislature may impose, by making the decisions of the Justice final in such
cases as may be determined bylaw. People v. Fbwler, 9 Cal. 85.

3. A defendant who has been properly served with process issued out of a
Justice's Court, who allows judgment to be taken against him by default,
admits the facts alleged in the complaint, and no ‘appeal will lie from such
judgment in reference to such facts. there being no issue of fact. The People
en°.rel.Jonesv. The 0oun¢yC'our¢of ElDo:‘ado0ou‘ , 10 Cal. 19.

4. Nor could he ask the County Court to hear e appeal on uestions of
law, unileslsdthere was a statement med of the grounds on which e intended
toarel . .

5. Ivn such case, where the defendant ap on questions of both law and
faet,heisnote'ntttledtoatrialdeno‘vo. d. ‘ .

6. In all cases the issue of factmust be made in the Court of original

urisdiction. The County Court can only retry the issue tried in the Court
ow. This ‘is what is meant bya trial anewin the Coun Court, under
section six hundred and twenty-six of the Practice Act. Id., 1 Cal. 
K 7. Where a cause is heard, on appeal in a County Court, for the purpose of
trying thesame de now, it is the duty of the Court to proceed with the trial
on the merits of the ease. ‘ Cbyle ‘v. ‘Baldwin at al. 5 Cal. 75.

§ 367. ‘Miscellaneous provisions on trials in County Courts.

Upon an appeal heard upon a statement of the case the
County Court may} review all orders aifecting the judgment
appealed from, and may set aside {or confirm, or modify any
or all of the proceedings s‘ubsequent;to, and dependent upon,
said judgment, and may, if necessary or proper, order a new
‘trial. When the action is tried‘ anew, on appeal, the trial

shall be conducted, iniall respects, as trials in the District

Court. The provisions of this act as to changing the place
of trial, and all the provisions as to trials in the District
Court, shallbe applicable to trials, on appeal, in the County
Court. For a failure to prosecute an appeal, ornnnecessary
delay in bringing it to a hearing, the ‘County Court, after
notice, may order the appeal to be dismissed. Judgments
rendered in the County Court on appeal shall have the
same force and effect, and be enforced in the same man.

nor as judgments in actions commenced in the District
Court.

‘Amended 1854, 93.

1. Where a motion ismadeinthe Countycourtto dismiss an appeal, on
the grounds that the undertaking nled is insumcient. and before e determination thereof the other ofers to amend his undertaking: Held.
téliplt is error» to refuse to allow him so to do. Cunningham v. Hopkins, 8

 When an appeal is taken on questions of fact alone, the appellate Court
will not disturb the verdict, when there’ is any evidence to support it. beetle
and-W5 v.-Ila-le,9Cal.94. l ‘ t

3. W are in suit in a Justice's Court for damages to real property, die

answer t in issuethe‘ ownership of the‘ property, and the defendant moved

to er the case to the District Court fortrlal, which motion was refused;
and  before the Justice, judgment was rendered for plaintifff, and the

defendant appealed to the Oountyodurt. where thejudgmentwas set aside,

and an order made transferring the case to the District Court, where, after
trial, plaintiff again hadju _ent: Held, that the County Court had authority, under sections five hun ed and ei ty-one and three hundred and si seven of the Practice Act, to transfer e case to the District Court; that e
elfect of the appeal to the County Court, was to vest it with authorityto make
all orders necessary for the determination of the case; and as the case was to
he tried de novo, and the County Court was incompetent, under the statute, to
1  tgp transfer to the District Court was necessary. Cullen v. Langridge,

4. The fact that the sum sued for in such case was only two hundred dollars, does not deprive the District Court of jurisdiction. ~ The fact that the
title to real plug! was involved, and not the sum sued for, establishes the
jurisdiction. e ssue upon this question of title had first to be found in
favor of plaintiff, before he could recover any damages. This issue involved,
not only the right of plaintid to recover, but the entire value of tgigroperty;
and there being nothing in the record to show this value to be in cient to
support_the  on, thepresumptions are in favor of the validity of the
proceedings. .

5. If thea pealhenotprosecuted, thesamcmaybedismissed afternotice
in the apps to Court (§ 367). The provisions of section six hundred and
twenty—seven, in reference to the payment of fees, refer to the making out of

. The payment or tender of the fees does not strictly constitute a contion of appeal, but a condition precedent to the sending up the papers; but
this condition may be waived by the Justice, or the fees may be paid at any
time, so as to bring the ease up before the County Court within the 'od
limited by the rules of that Court. People ex rel. Hamilton v. Harris, 9 C . 573.

6. Where, in suit before a Justice of the Peace,-defendant answers disputing
 ‘a claim, and afterwards, on a day set for trial, plaintifff being present,

1'. defendant absent, and no one appearing for him, the Justice renders
in ent for laintid’, without evidence an ‘.‘ by default,” as the docket
r : Held, at if the Justice erred in his judgment, either upon the merits

or as to form, the remedyis by appeal, and that such error cannot be corrected
e u

by bill in 'ty to set aside dgment and enjoin execution and sale
thereon. unter v. Hoole at al., 17 al. 418. ~

7. Where, in a Justice's Court, for damages to real property, the answer
put in issue the ownership of the property, and the defendant moved to transfer the case to the District Court for trial, which motion was refused; and
after trial before the Justice, judgment was rendered for plaintifff. and the
defendant appealed to the County Court, where the judgment was set aside,
and an order made transferring the case to the District Court, where, after
trial, plaintifff in had judgment: Held, that the County Court had authority,
under sections ve hundred and eighty-one and three hundred and sixty-seven
of the Practice Act, to transfer the case to the District Court; that the effect
of the appeal to the County Court was to vest it with authority to make all
orders necessary for the determination of the case, and, as the case was to be
tried de novo, and the County Court was incompetent under the statute to try
i{.,7 t(1}:Lt1;5a7nsfer to the District Court was necessary. Cullen v. Langridge at al.,

TITLE XXXIV.

IIISCELLANEOUS PROCEEDINGS.
CHAPTER I.—B‘oceedings against joint debtors.*

Blanca! 368. Parties not summoned in action on joint contract may
be summoned after jn ent.

369. 8ummons,inthatcase,w ttooontainandhowserved.
370. Amdavit to accom y summons.
371. Answer, when til and what it may contain.
372. What will constitute the pleadings in the case.
373. Issues how tried, and verdict what to be.

§ 368. Parties not summoned in action on joint contract, may
be summoned after judgment.

When a judgment is recovered against one or more of sev.
eral persons, jointly indebted upon an obligation, by proceeding, as provided in section thirty-two, those who were not
originally served with the summons, and did not appear to
the action, may be summoned to show cause why they should
not be bound by the judgment, in the same manner'as though
they had been originally served with the summons.

866 M 32, 145. N. Y. Code, § 375.

§ 369. Summons, in that case, what to contazn and how served.The summons, as provided in the last section, shall describe
the judgment, and require the person summoned to show
cause why he should not be bound by it, and shall be served

in the same manner and returnable within the same time as
the original summons. It shall not be necessary to file a new

complaint.
Abb. Forms, 1829-1830.

§ 370. Ajidavit to accompany summons.

The summons shall be accompanied by an affidavit of the
plaintifff, his agent, representative, or attorney, that the judgment; or some part thereof remains unsatisfied and shall
specify the amount due thereon.

Abb. Forms, 1829-1830.

§ 371. Answer, when filed and what it may contain.

"ThlsohspteslsappllcnbletoJustices’0oux-ts.

Upon such summons the defendant may answer within the
time specified therein, denying the judgment, or setting up
any defense which may have arisen subsequently; or he may
deny his liability on the obligation upon which the judgment
was recovered, except a discharge from such liability by the
Statute of Limitations.

Abb. Forms, 1832.

§ 372. What will constitute the pleadings in the case.

Ifthe defendant in his answer deny the judgment, or set
up any defense, which may have arisen subsequently, the
summons, with the affidavit annexed, and the answer, shall
constitute the written allegations in the case ; if he deny his
liability on the obligation upon which the judgment was recovered, a copy of the original complaint and judgment, the
summons, with the aiiidavit annexed, and the answer, shall
constitute written allegations. '

§ 373. Issues how tried, and verdict what to be.

The issues formed may be tried as in other cases ; but when
the defendant denies, in his answer, any liability on the obligation upon which the judgment was rendered, if a verdict
be found against him, it shall be for the amount remaining

unsatisfied on such original judgment, with interest thereon.
Abb. Forms, 1833-1834.

T I T L E X X X V .
CHAPTER II.— Confession qfjudgmcnt without action.

Szcrnox 874. Judgment may be confessed for debt due, or contingent
liability.
376. Statement in writing, and form thereof.
876. Filing statement, and entering judgment.

§ 374. Judgment may be confessed for debt due, or contingent
liability.

A judgment by confession may be entered without action,

either for money due, or to become due, or to. secure any person against contingent liability on behalf of the defendant, or

both, in the manner prescribed by thischapter.

N. Y. Code, § 382.

1. A judgment may be entered by confession for the amount specified in the
award, In the same wainthat it may for the sum mentioned in a bond. note or
8t‘filer instrument, but t is a judgment by confeaion. Gunter v. Sanchez, 1

I 480

§ 375. Statement in writing, and form thereof.

A. statement in Writing shall be made, signed by the defendant, and verified by his oath to the following effect:

lst. It shall authorize the entry of judgment for a speciiied
sum ;
2d. If it be for -money due, or to become due, it shall state
concisely the facts out of which it arose, and shall show that
the sum confessed therefore is justly due, or to become due ;

3d. If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintifff against
a contingent liability, it shall state concisely the facts constituting the liability, and shall show that the sum confessed

therefore does not exceed the same.
N. Y. Code, g 383. Bancrott’s Forms, 568.

1. Generally.—Where a jud ent was rendered by confession in open Court
upon an allegation of indeb ess and appearance of the parties, whatever
errors intervened. they cannot, at the instance of one not a arty to the judg
ment, be invoked to set aside, or show the judgment was a nu] ity. Cloud v.
Dorado 00., 12 Cal. 133.

2. The Legislature did not intend any more detiniteness or particularity in
cases of confession of judgment than in complaints upon the same cause of acgpp in3the ordinary course of procedure. Bannwm, J. Cordierv Schloss, 12

14 .

3. Where a judggnent by confession is attacked by a creditor, as fraudulent
against him, on e ground that the object of the debtor and the jndg~
ment creditor was to assist the debtor in forcing a compromise with his other
creditors, rather than to enforce the judgment, the complaint must plead this
ground of objection to the judgment. A general averment that the intent was
to hinder, delay and defraud, is insumcient. Meelaer v. Harris, 12 Cal. 218.

4. Such general averment of fraud will not put the adverse party on his
defense. Id.

6. An insolvent debtor, wishing to prefer a particular creditor, may give him
a confession of judgment. with the agreement between them that judgment shall
not be entered on the confession if the debtor succeeds in obtaining from his
other creditors an extension-—the creditor himself’, in that event, also to give
time ; but that if the other creditors refuse such extension and attempt to attach,
then that the judgment may be entered on the confession and execution issued.
Such confession, not used not intended to be used to inluence the negotiations
with the other creditors, but simply designed to secure the preferred creditor,
and at the same time to extend as much lenie to the debtor as is consistent
with the creditor’s own security, is valid. Moe v. Harris, 19 Cal. 278.

6. Insumoient: statement:s.—A statement for confession of ju ent, to
the efect that the indebtedness is upon a note, ete., is insumcient. where

the statement is, that the indebtedness is for sold and delivered, and
money had and received, it is insuiiicient in ' : that it does not show the
kind, or quantity, or price of the goods, or time of sale, or when the money
was received, or under what circumstances, or how much of the indebtedness
is for money, and how much for goods; and the judgment confessed is-prima
facie fraudulent. Cordier v. Schloss, 18 Cal. 576.

7. A statement, under the three hundred and seventy-fifth section of the
Practice Act, for confession of judgment, to the effect that laintiifs are owners of a note, that the note was given for goods sold and elivered by plaintiEs to defendants, and mone had and received by defendants, is insumcient,
alrsd the judgment rendered ereon prima facic fraudulent against creditors.
8. Whether each of the defects above named would be fatal to the judgment, not decided; but the failure to state ‘the amounts due, severally, for

and for money, would be fatal, just as such an averment is insumcient
in an ordinary complaint. Id.

9. If the statement upon which a voluntary confession of judgment is
made does not correctly describe the debt, the Jjudgment is void as tothe
creditors of the judgment debtor. Wilcoason v. oston, 27 Cal. 233.

10. A judgment rendered upon confession of the debtor, and at his instance, without any request on the part of the creditor, and without his
knowledge, is void as between the parties, and will not bar an action brought
by the creditor on the same cause of action, nor will it estop the debtor from
den all the facts set forth in it. Id.

1 . When a debtor confesses judgment without the knowledge or request
of the creditor, and the creditor thereafter ratifies it, and attempts to enforce
it, it will become binding between the arties to it b force of the ratincation,
but such ratification cannot affect rig ts acquired y other parties prior to
the ratidcation. Id. 12. The execution and delivery of a note by the debtor to his creditor for a
sum greater than is actually due for the urpose of defrauding other creditors
of the debtor, and the voluntary confe on of a judgment in the same by the
debtor, renders the judgment fraudulent and void as to the other creditors of
the debtor. Id.

13. A voluntary confession of a judgment, made upon a bona jidc debt
by the debtor in favor of the creditor, without the knowledge of the
creditor, and the issuance of an execution thereon at the request of
the debtor, and a levy on the debtor’s goods by virtue thereof — also
without the knowledge of the creditor—for the purpose of enabling the
creditor to obtain priority over the creditors of the debtor, is such afraud upon
the other creditors as renders the judgment null and levy void, as to an attachmentor execution in favor of the other creditors, afterwards levied on the same

property. Id.

14. Void judgment:s.—A judgment confessed for they urpose of hindering,
geggiin ésor defrauding creditors, is void as to such cre . Ryan v. Duly,

15. A confession of judgment to a bona jlde creditor, and the issuance of
execution and making levy under the same by the judgment debtor, without
the knowledge of the judgment creditor, done with the knowledge that another
creditor is about to attach, and for the purpose of defeating his attachment, is
void as to the attaching creditor. Id.

16. Where judgmentis confessed on a note, a ‘ortion of the consideration
being advanced from time to time after the date 0 the note, which drew interest on the whole amount from date, a portion of the interest is fraudulent, and
the entire note is void as against creditors. Scales v. Scott, 13 Cal. 76.

17. Under the Practice Act of 1850, a judgment by confession is invalid,
unless the instrument authorizing its entry is signed by each of the persons
;gsén:lt whom it authorizes judgment to be entered. Ghapin v. Thompson,

0 . 681.

18. Where, under said act, two persons signed a confession of judgment

against themselves and two others: Held, that the judgment thereon being

void as to those not signing, was equally so as to those ' ing, and that the
authority being to enter a judgment against four, no  6nt thereunder
could be entered against a less number. Id.

19. Judgments, prima facie. vold—In a confession .'of judgment, the
omission to fully com ly with the statute to set forth explicitly the facts and
circumstances upon w ‘oh the debt was incurred, does not i facto make the
judgment void; it merely throws the burden of proof on t e judgment creditor, if his judgment is contested by other creditors. of proving that his judgment was fair and not fraudulent. Richards v. McMillan. 6 Cal. 419.

20. But such a failure to make all the disclosure: 1 eqnired by the statute is
prima acie evidence of fraud. Id.

21.’ tchards v. McMillan (6 Cal. 419), hol ' that the omimion, in a confession of judgment, to state the facts out of w ‘ch the indebtedness arose,
etc., is strictly in accordance with the statute, does not render the judgent

V.

a nulli , but is sim l ' acic evidence of fraud, amrmed. Gar
SclatossEyl8 Cal. 576. P y pnma f

22. A statement for confession of judgment to the efect that the indebtedness is upon a note, etc., is insumcient. So where the statement is that the
indebtedness is for goods sold and delivered, and money had and received, it
is insumcient in this: that it does not show the kind, or quantity, or price of
the goods, or time of sale, or when the money was received, or under what
circumstances, nor how much of the indebtedness is for mono and how

Ifélcth is for goods; and the judgment confessed is prima facie udulent.

23. Whether each of the defects above named would be fatal to the judgment, not decided; but the failure to state the amounts due, severally, for
goods and for money, would be fatal, just as such an averment is insumcient
m an ordinary complaint. Cordier v. Schtoss ct rr!., 18_ Cal. 576.

24. J’ udgmenu; how, when, and by whom may be set aside.—An
application by a judgment creditor to set aside his confession of judgment,
s ould show that the claim was not gust, and that the judgment ought not to
have been confessed. Arrington v. ‘harry, 5 Cal. 514.

26. A junior judgment creditor has no right to join with the defendant in
an application to set aside such confessed judgment. He must resort to a
Court of chancery if he is dissatisfied. Id.

26. A junior judgment creditor, must resort to a Court of equity if he is dissatisfied with the bona jides of the confession of judgment. Id.

27. In a suit to set aside a judgment confessed b a party to defraud his
creditors, it is not necessary that plaintifff should either a judgment or
execution creditor. A lien acquired by attachment sutiiees. A slight mistake
in the computation of interest, the date being given, is no evidence of fraud.
Scales v. Scott, 13 Cal. 76.

§ 376. Filing statement and entering judgment.

The statement shall be filed with the Clerk of the county
in which the judgment is to be entered, who shall indorse
upon it, and enter in the judgment book a judgment of such
Court for the amount confessed, with ten dollars cuts. The
statement and affidavit, with the judgment indorsed, shall

thereupon become the judgment roll.
Bancroft's Forms, 569.

T I T L E X X X V I.
Cmprss ]II.—-Submitting a controversy without action.

Bzcnox 377. Controversy, how submitted without action.

378. Judgment on, as in other cases, but without costs prior
to notice of trial.

379. Judgment may be enforced or appealed from as in an
action.

§ 377. Controversy, how submitted without action.

Parties to a question in difference, which might be the

subject of a civil action, may, without action, agree upon a
case containing the facts upon which the controversy depends, and present a submission of the same to any Court
which should have jurisdiction, if an action had been brought.
But it must appear, by aiiidavit, that the controversy is real,
and the proceedings in good faith, to determine the rights of
the parties. The Court shall thereupon hear and determine
the case, and render judgment thereon, as if an action were
depending.

N. Y. Code, § 372.

1. Where the parties to a controversy make an agreed case, under the three
hundred and seventy-seventh section of the Practice Act, which is submitted
for decision to District Court, the consideration of the Court is restricted to
the facts submitted in the case. Crandall v. Amador Count . 20 Cal 72.

2. Where the plaintifff claimed that defendant was inde ted to him, and,

under the section above referred to, a case was made and submitted stating the
facts upon between the parties. upon which the District Court decided that
plain ' s demand was not established without proof or other additional facts:
Held. that it was error for the Court instead of rendering judgment for the
defendant to make an order based upon the supposition that plaintiff establish
such other facts. Id.

3. Where an appeal is taken to the Supreme Court from a decision of a
Justice's Court, upon a case submitted on an agreed statement, without action
under the three hundred and seventy-seventh section of the Practice Act, the
transcript on appeal must contain a copy of the atlldavit required by the same

section showing the reality of the controversy and good faith of the proceedMellois v. Chaim, 20 Cal. 679.

4.. Where instead of this affidavit, the record only showed an allegation in
the agreed ment on appeal that the cause was heard in the Court below on

an agreed statement of facts, and the atlldavit of the defendant that the controversy was real, the appeal was dismissed. Id.

§ 378. Judgmnt on, as in other cases, but without costs, prior
to notice of trial.

Judgment shall be entered in the judgment book, as in
other cases, but without costs, for any proceeding prior to the

trial. The case, the submission, and a copy of the judgment
shall constitute the judgment roll.
N. Y. Code, § 373.

§ 379. Judgment may be enforced or appealed from, as in an
action.
The judgment may be enforced in the same manner as if

it had been rendered in an action, and shall be in the same
manner subject to appeal.

TITLE XXX VII.

CHAPTER IV.— Of Arbitrations.

Sncnox 380. Whtp may submit controversy to arbitration; and excepone.
381. Submission to arbitration shall be in writing. j
382. Submission may be entered as an order of Court. Revocation.
383. Powers of arbitrators.
384. Majority of arbitrators may determine any question; they
. shall be sworn.
385. Award to be in writi ; when judgment to be entered.
386. Award may be vaca in certain cases.
387. Court may, on motion, modify or correct the award.
388. Decision on the motion subject to appeal, but not the
judgment entered before motion.
389. If submission be revoked and an action be brought. what
to be recovered.

§380. Who may submit controversy to arbitration; and
exceptions.

Persons capable"of contracting may submit to arbitration
any controversy which might be the subject of a civil action
between them, except 8. question of title to real property in
fee or for life. This qualification shall not include questions
relating merely to the partition or boundaries of real property.

1. The a cement of parties cannot divest Courts fcf their proper 
tio2n.Th row v. Norris, 2 Cal). 74. but f ih
. e statute concerni, ng ar itrations is a reamrmance o e common
law, and gives to the  no higher hts than they might have asserted
in a Court of equi ‘ In case of mistake, aud,.or accident. The doggéine of
Maldrow v. Norris ?l2 Cal. 74) reamrmed. Peachy v. itltchie, 4 Cal.

3. Onepartn, er oanuotbind his copartner by a_ submission ofpartnsrshi
matters to arbitration; but such a submission would be good against the part?ner ammg to it. Jones v. Bailey, 5 Cal. 345. ,

4. u an agreement in  is entered into under the three hundred
and eightieth section of the Practice Act, to submit questions of din‘erence
relative to the partition of lands to the award of arbitrators, and the arbitrators meet and make their award, a Court of equit will decree a specidc performauce of the award. Whitney v. Stone, 23 C . 276.

5. The fact that such agreement contains a clause by which each party binds
himself to the other in a sum certain, as a penalty in case he refuse to abide
by and perform the award, does not dpprive a Court of equity of its power to
decree a specific performance, even ough the party refusing to perform
should odor to pay the penalty eed upon. Id.

6. Whenever parties may by eir own set transfer real property or exercise any act of ownership wi regard to it, they ma refer any disputes concerniughilt to_the decision of arbitrators, who may or er the same acts to be
done w ‘ch the parties themselves might do b agreement. This was the rule
at common law, and is not altered b section ree hundred and eighty of the
Practice Act. Bkzir v. WaUace, 21 al. 317.

7. Whenever parties may, by their own act, transfer real property or exercise any act of ownership with regard to it. they may refer any disputes concerning it to the decision of arbitrators, who may order the same acts to be
done whichthe arties themselves might do by agreement. This was the
rule at common aw, andis not altered by section three hundred and eighty of
the Practice Act. Id. ' C

8. Persons capable of contracting, may submit by writing to arbitration
any controversy which might be the subject of a civil action between them,
except a’ &uestiou of title to real property in fee or for ‘life. (Practice Act,
Sections, 0. 381). But it does not follow that because a matter in ditference
between parties may be submitted by them to arbitration, that a Court of
record. or any other Court, will thereby ac uire jurisdiction of the subject
atté in controversy or of the parties litigant. Ryan v. Daugherty, 30

L .

§ -381. Submission to arbitration to be in  p

The submission to arbitration shall be in writing, and

may be to one or more persons.

See 529.

1. Ti: constitute a submission to arbitration under the statute, so as to give
the awardthe eifeot of a judgment, the statute must-be pursued in the manner in which the submission is dled with the clerk, and the motion. made for

 ut1pn ‘Heslep ‘v. City of San Francisco, 4 Cal. 1; Oursley v.
§382. Submission may be entered as ma order of Court.
Revocation.

It may be stipulated in the submission, that it be entered
as an order of the County Court, or of the ‘District Court, for
which purpose it shall be Eled with the Clerkof the county
where the parties, or one of them, reside. The Clerk shall,
thereupon, enter in his register of actions a note of the sub~mission, with: the names of the parties, the names of the _
arbitrators, the date of the submission, when filed,~and the

time limited «by the -submission, if «any, within which the

award shall be made. When so entered, the submission shall
not be revoked without the consent of both parties. The
arbitrators may be compelled by the Court to make an award,
and the award may be enforced by the Court in the same
manner as a judgment. If the submission be not made an
order of the Court, it may be revoked at any time before the
award is made.

1. A stipulation in the submission that neither party should a , and 3
power of attorne to confess judgment pursuant to the award, not bar an
appeal from a ju gment on the award; es ecially under our system, where
law and equity are blended together. M row v. Norris, 2 Cal. 74.

2. The report of a referee, and the award of an arbitrator, are in all essentials the same. Grayson v. Guild, 4 Cal. 122.

3. Where the parties entered into a submission to arbitration, in which it
was stipgltated that the award be entered as the judgment of the County Court:
Held, it was void in toto, that Court having no 'urisdlction over the subject matter of the award. Williams v. Walton, 9 C . 142.

4. Where a submission to arbitration is made an order of Court, under the
Practice Act, the clerk may enter judgment on the award, in due time, without any further order of the Court. Oarsley v. Lindsay, 14 Cal. 390. '

6. An agreementin writing between two parties, to submit matters in diEerence between them to an arbitrator, with t e power to award and adjudge all
matters in difference between them, and to make an award in writing, and
that his award when made may be entered as a judgment of any Court of reoord having jurisdiction, does not give any Court jurisdiction of the parties
litigant, or of the subject matter of the controversy, unless the agreement
further sti ulate that the submission ma be entered as an order of Court,
and the su mission and stipulation are ed with the clerk, and the clerk enter in his register of actions a note of the submission, with the names of the
parties, the name of the arbitrator, etc., as required by the three hundred
Bing eighty-second section of the Practice Act. Ryan v. Daugherty, 30 Cal.

§ 383. Powers of arbitrators.

Arbitrators shall have power to appoint a time and place
for hearing, to adjourn from time to time, to administer
oaths to witnesses, to hear_the allegations and evidence of
the parties, and to make an award thereon.

1. If the agreement to submit matters in difference to an arbitrator ro' vides that the submission may be made an order of Court, and the ark

makes the proper entries in his register of actions, the arbitrator must make
his award within the time limited in the agreement, or both the arbitrator
and Court lose jurisdiction of the case, unless the gxarties stipulate in writing

to extend the time. R v. Daugherty, 30 Cal. 21
2. When matters in ' puts are submitted to arbitration, with power for

the arbitrators to appoint an umpire, the arbitrators have a right to select the
umpire, either before or after the investigation of the matter has commenced,
even though the articles of submission contain a clause providing for such
selection in the event of a disagreement between the arbitrators. Dudley v.

Thomas, 23 Cal. 365. g _ _
3. Arbitrators have the power to award costs, though no mention be_made

of costs in the article of submission. Id.
4. After an award has been once made and delivered, the arbitrators cannot afterwards alter the same, even to correct mistakes, without the consent

of the parties; but the making of a new and an lementary , and attaching the same to the award. after it has been ehvered, doegiibetrvitiate the
original award, and may be treated as surplusage. Id. .

§ 384. Jlfajority of arbitrators may determine any question;

they shall be sworn.

All the arbitrators shall “meet and act together during the
investigation; but when met, a majority may determine any
question. Before acting, they shall be sworn before an oiiicer
authorized to administer oaths, faithfully and fairly to hear
and examine the allegations and evidence of the parties, in
relation to the , matters in controversy, and to make a just
award according to their understanding.

1. Arbitrators have no common law powers when appointed in the mode
provided bystatute. Williams v. Walton, 9 Cal. 145.

§ 385. Award to be in writing; when judgment to be entered.

The award shall be in writing, signed by the arbitrators,
or a majority of them, and delivered to the parties. When
the submission is made an order of the Court, the award shall
be filed with the Clerk, and a note thereof made in his register. After the expiration of five days from the filing of the
award, upon the application of a party, and on filing an affidavit, showing that notice of filing the award has been served
on the adverse party or his attorney, at least four days prior
to such application, and that no order staying the entry of
judgment has been served, the award shall be entered by the
Clerk in the judgment book, and shall thereupon have the
effect of a judgment.

1. The ordinary mode of enforcing an award is by action, and it seems
where no statute exists authorizing the Court to enter judgment on an award,
upon motion, that the Court has no ri ht to proceed in that way; and a consent to submit a matter to arbitration goes not imply a consent that the party
in whose favor the award is made may enter judgment upon it in Court as a
matter of course. Gunter v. Sanchez ct al., 1 Cal. 45.

C3. %$I,l(t)3t&n08 of an award not void for uncertainty. Carsley v. Lindsay, 14

3. An award cannot be impeached because contrary to law and evidence.
The Practice Act (§ 385, et seq.) prescribes the sole ground for vacating his
award. Certainly not, if the facts were not brought before him. Id. 4. Where a submission to arbitration is made an order of Court, under
the Practice Act. the clerk may enter j dgment on the award in due time,
without any further order of the Court. d.

5. Heslep v. San Francisco (4 Cal. 1), in this respect overruled. Id.

6. That the arbitrator did not act upon all the items or property of a partnership, is no ground for vacating his award. Certainly not, if the facts were
not brought before him. Id.

7. An award renderedupon a fairarbitration of a matter-in dispute between
two parties, and for a lo time afterconcurredin, mustbe held to be condusive. Jarvis v. Fountain. atcr 00., 5 Cal. 179.

8. An award bad in part may be enforced for the part that is good, if not
attacked for fraud; and the matter is divisible. Huldrow v. Norm, 2 Cal. 74.

9. The Court will not disturb the award of an arbitrator unless the error
com lained of, whether of law or fact, appear on the face of the award. Tyson
v. ells, 2 Cal. 122, overruled, as to a report of a referee, in Cappe v..BnztoZara, 19 Cal. 607. '

10. If a ju ant on an award of arbitrators is entered -by the clerk atthe
request of the party in whose favor it is rendered, within less than five days
after the a is filed, and without notice to the other party, the p
partycannot afterwards question its validi on the ground that it was irregular entered. Hoogs v. Morse, 31 Cal. 12 .

11. If the arbitrators award that one of the parties shall pa to the otha a

sum certain, and also that the parties shall execute to eac other mutual

releases of all actions, etc., the tender of a release, as provided by the award,
is not a condition precedent to the gght to bring -an action to recover the
money. Dudley v. homas, 23 Cal. .

12. The award -of money is absolute and unconditional; but the award of
releases is dilferent, forthey are concurrent acts, and neither t can co , l
the other to execute a release without the tender of a release by himself. I .

§ 386. Award may be vacated in certain cases.

The Court, on motion, may vacate the award upon either
of the following grounds, and may order a new hearing before

the same arbitrators, or not, in its discretion :
lst. That it was procured by corruption or fraud;

2d. That the arbitrators were guilty of misconduct, or committed gross error in refusing, on cause shown, to postpone
the hearlng, or in refusing to hear pertinent evidence, or
otherwisecacted improperly, in a manner by which the rights
of the party were prejudiced;

3d. That the arbitrators exceeded their powers in making
their award ; or that they refused, or improperly omitted, to
consider a part of the matters submitted to them; or that the

award is indefinite, or cannot be performed.

1. The rule is general that arbitrators must pass upon all matters submitted,
or their award will be invalid. If several matters are  in the submission, and the award does not disclose that each is determined, itis defective on
its face, and can be set aside on motion. But if e the submission is general of
all matters. in controversy, without specification, it is not necessary that the
award should embrace any matters except those which are laid before the
arbitrators. These last, however, must be passed upon, or the award will be
void in toto, and be set aside upon a proper showing of the omission. Ihldrotc
V. Norris, 12 Cal. 331.

2. If the submission providethat an award upon the matters submitted be
made, or the condition of the bond be that the parties are bound, provided the
award of such matters be made, then such proviso extends toeall the matters
submitted, and operates to render . the submission conditional. and the award
binding only in case the arbitrators pass upon every subject, either specially referred to tbIe1m, or brought to their notice under the general terms of the submission. .

3. Where one of the principal matters in dispute, passed upon by the arbitrators, was subsequently set aside by a higher Court, and the judgment rendered
upon the award vacated by reason of the error of the arbitrators in assing
upon said matter, it lett the award as though such item submitted ha never
been passed upon; and consequently, the award did not effect the purposes of
the submission by settling all matters of controversy between the parties. The
consideration which moved the arties to enter into the submission had failed,
and hence the award is void. d.

4. The award being void, a release of action, filed by one of the parties in
pursuance of the submission, is also void. Id.

5. The doctrine that an award may be good in part and had in part applies
to instances where there has been an excess of power in arbitration by their
attempting to determine matters not submitted, or where there is uncertainty
or illegality in an independent and distinct matter forming no consideration for
other parts of the award, and the settlement of which could not have contributed to induce the arbitration. Id. .

6. A useless and invalid determination upon one item properly presented
within the general terms of the submission, must, on principle, be as fatal to
the entire action of the arbitrators as an omission, intentional, to notice the
item at all. Id. '

Cf‘. slgngtance of an award not void for uncertainty. Oarsley v. Lindsay, 14

8. When arbitrators have published their award, any alteration whatever,
without the consent of parties, will vitiate it; and this, th h the alteration
wcils tag: certain amounts left undetermined in the award. orter v. Scott, 7

9. It is the duty of arbitrators to ass upon the whole subject in controversy; and if the terms of the aw render a further inquiry necessary to
ascertain a sum to be aid, or an act to be done, it is void. Id.

10. Arbitrators, un er a general submission, are not bound to decide according to direct law; but where they intend to decide according to law, a
rézixlatailie apparent on the face of the award is fatal. M uldrow v. Norris, 2

a . .

11. Courts of equity, in the absence of statutes, will set aside awards for
fraud, mistake or accident; an award may be set aside for a mistake of law,
when it ap ears on the face of the award. Id.

12. If ar itrators state the reasons of their award, it will be presumed they
intend to decide according to law. Id. 79.

13. Where ‘es submit to an arbitrator they are presumed to know that
his award ' be dual ; and they must be required to exercise due dili once
in procuring the evidence upon which to base a proper award. Montirgrri v.
Engels, 3 Cal. 431.

14. Where an award is objected to on the ground that it embraces matters
not in fact submitted, though within the eneral terms of the submission, it
lies with the objecting party to show a rmatively in what the arbitrators
have exceeded their authority. Without such showing the award will be sustained. Blair v. Wallace. 21 Cal. 317.

15. Thus, where the agreement of submission recited a sale and resale of certain lands, out of which transaction disputes and misunderstandings had arisen,
and the submission was of “ all and every matter of dispute arising from or
growing out of the transaction, aforesaid,” an award, that one party receive

om the other a certain amount of money and convey to him the lands mentioned, is prima facie authorized by the submission. Id.

16. It’ the party in whose favor an award of arbitrators is made. voluntarily
takes judgment on the award, and then receives the amount of the judgment in
satisfaction of it, this is a waiver of any errors or misconduct on the part of the
arbitrators. Hoogs v. Morse, 31 Cal. 128.

§ 387. Court may, on motion, modify or correct the award.

The Court, may, on motion, modify or correct the award,
where it appears:

1st. That there was a miscalculation in figures, upon
which it was made, or that there is a mistake in the description of some person or property therein;
2d. When a part of the award is upon matters not submitted, which part can be separated from other parts,
and does not affect the decision on the matters submitted ;

3d. When the award, though imperfect in form, could
have been amended if it had been a verdict, or the imperfection disregarded.

1. That the Court will not disturb the award of an arbitrator, or the report
of a referee, unless the error complained of, whether of law or fact, appears
on the face of the award or re rt. Tyson v. Wells, 2 Cal. 122, overruled in
Oappe v. Brizzolara, 19 Cal. 60 .

2. Where the object of the submission is to make an end of litigation. and
the award is uncertain and incomplete u on its face, it defeats the object of
the submission, and must be set aside. ierson v. Norman, 2 Cal. 699.

§ 388. Decision on the motion subject to appeal; but not the
judgment entered before motion.

The decision upon the motion shall be subject to appear
in the same manner as an order which is subject to appeal in a ClVll action; but the judgment entered before a
motion is made shall not be subject to appeal.

1. A sti ulation that neither party will appeal is not binding. Muldrow Y‘
Norris, 2 al. 74.

§ 389. If submission be revoked and an action brought, what
to be recovered.

If a submission to arbitration be revoked, and an action
be brought therefore, the amount to be recovered shall only
be the costs and damages sustained in preparing for and
attending the arbitration.

TITLE XXXVIII.

CHAPTER V.—0j'cr of the defendant to compromise the whole or
a part of an action.

§ 390. Proceedings on ojer of defendant to compromise after
suit brought.

- The defendant may, at any time before the trial or judgment, serve upon the plaintiff an offer to allow judgment
to be taken against him, for the sum or property, or to the
effect therein specified. If the plaintifff accept the offer,
and give notice thereof within five days, he _may file the
summons, complaint, and offer, with an affidavit of notice of
acceptance, and the Clerk shall thereupon enter judgment
accordingly. If the notice of acceptance be not given, the
offer shall be deemed withdrawn, and shall not be given in
evidence; and if the plaintifff fail to obtain a more favorable
judgment, he shall not recover costs, but shall pay the dcfendant’s costs, from the time of the offer.

See N. Y. Code. 6 385; Abb. Forms, 1692-3.

1. If jud ent is entered upon the cognovit, and by its authority, then the
amount ac owle ed would have been the sum of the judgment; but where,

upon complaint an answer denying the allegations thereof, the ackuowlesdgg:
ment issued as evidence, interest may be given by way of damages. Hir

field v. Franlclin, 6 Cal. 607.

2. Acognovit is good as an admission in pats after answer is med. Id.

3. The true meaning of the statute (Practice Act, sec. 390) authorizing the
clerk to enter judgment upon an o&‘er on the part of defendant to suder judgment for a specified sum, etc., is, that he can enter judgment only when the
offer is made after action is brought by the tiling of the complaint, and while
pending; and where a party hands to the clerk the complaint, o&‘er of judgment and notice of acceptance of the ofer, at the same time, and thereupon
the clerk enters judgment, it is void. Crane V. Hirschfelder, 17 Cal. 582.

TITLE XXXIX. (a)(b)

OF WITNESSES, AND OF THE MANNER OF OBTAINING EVIDENCE.

CHAPTER L—0f witnesses.

83011011 391. All perstgns may be witnesses, except as specified in this
c s r.
392. No per}-)son shall be excluded for his religious belief. When
a person may be excluded for interest. 393. The test of interest. A party may call the adverse party.
394. Persons who shall not be witnesses.
395. Husband and wife shall not be witnesses for or against
each other. ’
396. Attorney shall not be examined as to a communication
made by a client, without consent.
397. Nor a priest as to any confession.
398. Not ate; to any information necessarily acquired
in capaci .
399. {Nor a dnblie omoer as to communications made in omeial
co ence.
400. The Judge or any juror may be a witness.
401. W111)? witness does not speak English, an interpreter shall
sworn.

§ 391. ‘All persons may be witnesses except as specified in this

chapter.

All persons, without exception, otherwise than as specified
in this chapter, may be witnesses in any action or proceeding. Facts which have heretofore caused the exclusion of
testimony, may still be shown, for the purpose of affecting its
credibility.

‘Amended 1863, 701.

§ 392. ‘No person shall be excluded except, etc.

No person shall be disqualilied as a witness in any action
or proceeding'on account of his opinions on matters of religious belief, or by reason of his interest in the event of .the
action or proceeding as a party thereto, or otherwise; but
the party or parties thereto, and the person in whose behalf
such action or proceeding may be brought or defended, shall,

(a) ['1'heprovisionsofth1stltlearesppl1cabletoJnltioes’0onrts. 8e0p0d.IG20.]

(b) Brno-as 1868. p. 193.

8:0. 1. Inanycivilorcriminslsctionoi-proceeding. swltnessmaybe discmedited ermed.snd‘:|cp‘-hsnehptirposehlsgeneral character for truth. honesty and intearitylw
03191304

except as hereinafter excepted, be competent and compellable to give evidence, either viva voce, or by deposition, or
upon a commission, in the same manner and subject to the
same rules of examination as any other witness, on behalf of

himself, or either or any of the parties to the action or proceeding.
‘ Amended 1854, 94; 1863, 101.

§ 393. ‘ Where defendant representative of a deceased person.

N 0 person shall be allowed to testify under the provisions
of section three hundred and ninety-two, where the adverse
party, or the party for whose immediate benefit the action or
proceeding is prosecuted or defended, is the representative
of a deceased person, when the facts to be proved transpired
before the death of such deceased person ; and nothing contained in said section shall affect the laws in relation to the
attestation of any instrument required to be attested; nor
shall anything contained in said section render any person
who, in a criminal proceeding, is charged with the commission of any public offense, competent or compellable to give

evidence therein for or against himself. (1)

‘Amended 1854, 94; 1863, 701.

1. Where laintin’ claims under deceased, the admission of deceased in her
lifetime, w e living upon the pro erty in controversy, to the effect that it
belonged to or was in the osses on of defendant, are competent evidence
against plaintifff. Bollo v. avarro, Oct. T. 1867.

2. The word “representative, ” used in the three hundred and ninety-third
section of the Practice Act, as amended in 1863, ap lies to the executor or
administrator of the estate of a deceased erson, an also to the person or

arty who has succeeded to the ri ht o deceased. whether by purchase or
ascent, or operation of law. Doug V. Davis, 26 Cal. 34.

§ 394. ‘Persons who shall not be witnesses.

The following persons shall not be witnesses:

First-—Those who are of unsound mind at the time of their
production for examination.

Second—Children under ten years of age, who, in the
opinion of the Court, appear incapable of receiving just impressions of the facts respecting which they are examined,
or of relating them truly.

Third—Mongoli’ans, Chinese, or Indians, or persons having

 

(1) Persons charged with criminal otrenses shall, at thelrrequeumbodeemedoompetcnt
witnesses. Btatlsos-O.p.8d6.

except as hereinafter excepted, be competent and -compel‘
lable to give evidence, either viva voce, or by deposition. 01'
upon a commission, in the same manner and subject to the
same rules of examination as any other witness, on behalf Of

himself, or either or any of the parties to the action or proceeding.
‘ Amended 1854, 94; 1863, 101.

§ 393. ‘ Where defendant representative of a deceased P‘3’:3‘_’"'°

No person shall be allowed to testify under the pr0V18l0115
of section three hundred and ninety-two, where the adverse
party, or the party for whose immediate benefit the 8.Ctl0Il. or
proceeding is prosecuted or defended, is the representative
of a deceased person, when the facts to be proved transpired
before the death of such deceased person ; and nothing contained in said section shall affect the laws in relation to the
attestation of any instrument required to be attested; nor
shall anything contained in said section render any person
who, in a criminal proceeding, is charged with the commission of any public offense, competent or compellable to SW9

evidence therein for or against himself. (1)
‘Amended 1854, 94; 1863, 701.

1. Where laintif claims under deceased, the admission of deceased in her
lifetime, whge living upon the property in controversy. 30 the 939°‘ igat "5
belonged to or was in the ossession of delfggiliant, are competent 6'71 81100
Iga1nst' laintiif. Bollo v. avarro, Oct. T. . . .

2. This) word “representative, ” used in the three hundred and ninetfthlrd
section of the Practice Act, as amended in 1863, ap lies to the executor 01'
administrator of the estate of a deceased erson. 811 313° l’° l'h° Peiwn 3:
party who has succeeded to the right 0 deceased. Whether by Pu“ 39°

1:, or operation of law. Davis V. .Davi8. 25 031- 34§ 394. ‘Persons who shall not be witnesses.

The following persons shall not be witnesses: .
Ft°r8t—-Those who are of unsound mind at the time of their
production for examination. _
See-and—Childi-en under ten years of age._ i;vho._ In ?h°
opinion of the Court, appear incapable of receiving Just Impressions of the facts respecting which they are examined,
or of relating them truly. .
Thz'rd——Mongoli'ans, Chinese, or Indians, or persons having

 

,,,,,,,,,.d to t
(1) Persons charged with crimimi oaenses ninll. at their r°<l°°"- "° °°mp° n
witnesses. Stat. 1565-6. 1:. 866.

one-half or more of Indian blood, in an action or proceeding
wherein a white person is a party.

Fourth-Persons against whom judgment has been rendered upon a conviction for a felony, unless pardoned by the
Governor, or such judgment has been reversed on appeal.

1Amended 1854. 94; 1863, 60.

1. There is no precise age within which children are exluded from giving
testimony. Their competency is to be determined, not by their age, but by
gm degree of their understanding and knowledge. The People v. Bernal, 10

al. 6 .

2. It is for the Court to decide the question of their competency when they
are otfered as witnesses. Id.

3. If over fourteen years of age, the presumption is that they possess the
requisite knowledge and understanding; but if under that age, the presum
tion is otherwise, and it must be removed u n their examination by ed:
Court, or under its direction and its presence, fore they can be sworn. Id.

4. People v. Hall (4 Cal. 399), excluding Chinese witnesses in suits to which
white persons are parties. amrmed. Spoor v. See Yup 00., 13 Cal. 73.

5. Where a witness, being sworn, stated that he was fourteen years old and
a Chileno, and did not know “ the obligation of an oath ;" whereupon the
Judge explained to him the nature of such obligation, and he was then permitted to testify—the other party objecting that he did not know the obhgatépp 235 an oath : Held, that the witness was competent. Fuller 7. Fuller, 17

§ 395. ‘Husband and wife shall not be witnesses for or against
each other. A husband may be a witness for or against his wife, and a
wife may be a witness for or against her husband, and where
husband and Wife are parties to an action or proceeding
they, or either of them, may be examined as witnesses in
their own behalf, or in behalf of each other, or in behalf of
any of the parties thereto, the same as any other witness;
but this section shall not apply to cases of divorce, neither
shall any husband or wife be competent or compellable to
disclose any communication made to him or her by the other
during marriage. (1)

‘Amended 1863, 771.

§ 396. An attorney shall not be examined as to communications
made by a client without consent.

An attorney or counselor shall not, without the consent of
his client, be examined as a witness as [to] any communication made by the client to him, or his advice given thereon,
in the course of professional employment.

 

(1) Husband and wife may become witnesses in criminal cases. Stat. 1865-45. p 46.

1. Whether a communication by a client to his attorney was made in confl4; question of fact, to be disposed of by the Court. Hagcr v. Shindler,

2. If the attorney, while  a suit for the client, receives a deed of
the client's property without consideration, and then at the client's request
deeds the property to another person without consideration, these facts are
not privileged communications, and the attorne may be required to disclose
them as a witness in a suit by a creditor to cance the deeds. Id.

3. It',.pending the relation of client and attorne , the client communicates
to the attorney a fact foreign to the ob’ect for which the attorney was retained, the communication is not conh ential. Id.

4. If an attorney is retained in an action, and the client, after due] judgment,
makes disclosures respecting subjects of the foregone employment, the communications are not privileged. Id.

5. Confidential communications made by a client to an attorney, respecting
the business he is employed to transact, are privileged, and the attorney cannot be compelled to disclose them. But statements made by the client to
other persons at the time, or by other persons to him, are not privileged, and
the attorney is bound to disclose them the same as any other witness. Gallagher v. Williamson, 23 Cal. 331.

§ 397. Nor a priest as to a confession.

A clergyman or priest shall not, withoutthe consent of the
person making the confession, be examined as a witness as to
any confession made to him in his professional character, in
the course of discipline enjoined by the church to which he
belongs.

§ 398. ‘Nor a physician as to any information necessarily acquired in that capacity.

A licensed physician, or surgeon, shall not, without the consent of his patient, be examined as a witness, as to any information acquired in attending the patient, which was necessary to enable him to prescribe, or act for, the patient ; provided, however, in any suit, or prosecution, against a physician,
or surgeon, for malpractice, if the patient, or party, suing, or
prosecuting, shall give such consent, and any such witness
shall give testimony, then such physician, or surgeon, defendant, may call any other physicians, or surgeons, as witnesses
on behalf of defendant, without the consent of such patient,

or party suing, or prosecuting.
xAmended 1861, 305.

§399. Nor a public ojicer as to communications made in
cjicial confidence.

A public officer shall not be examined as a witness as to

communications made to him in official confidence, when the
public interest would suffer by the disclosure.

§ 400. The Judge, or any juror, may be a witness.

The Judge himself, or any juror, may be called as a witness
by either party; but in such case it shall be in the discretion
of the Court or Judge to order the trial to be postponed or
suspended, and to take place before another Judge or jury.

1. A case of forcible entry and detainer was legally brought before a Justice
of the Peace, but he, being a witness in the cause, acting under the six hundred and twentieth section of the Practice Act, sent it to the mayor of 11.,
who, having no jurisdiction, returned it to the successor of the Justice (who
had in the meantime resigned), before whom it was decided. Held, that the
mere fact of sending the cause to the maggr could not be subject of complaint,
and that the judgment of the Justice's urt be sustained. Davis V’. Gallen,

2 Cal. 358.

§ ‘401. When a witness does not speak English, an interpreter
shall be sworn.

When a witness does not understand and speak the English
language, an interpreter shall be sworn to interpret for him.
Any person, a resident of the proper county, may be summoned by any Court or Judge to appear before such Court
or Judge to act as interpreter in any action or proceeding.
The summons shall be served and returned in like manner as
a subpoena. Any person so summoned shall, for a failure to
attend at the time and place named in the summons, be
deemed guilty of a contempt, and may be punished accordingly. - i

‘ Amended 1863, -195.

TITLE XL.

CHAPTER II.—J!Ianner of compelling the attendance of witnesses,
and their rights and duties.*

Sscrzm 402. Subpoenas may require witnesses alone, or to bring books,
etc.. but not more than thirty miles if out of the

county.
403. Subpoena shall be issued, in what cases.
404. Service of subpoena.
405. Service on concealed witness.
406. Person present may be required to testify without subpoena.
407. A witness duly served shall attend as required.

408. Witness shall answer pertinent questions; exceptions.

409. Penalty for disobedience to sub oena, etc.

410. Witness disobeying subpoena forfeit one hundred
dollars and all damages.

411. If witness fail to attend, the Court may issue a warrant.

412. If witness be a prisoner, an order for his examination or
production may be made.

413. Such order can be made only upon affidavit.

414. When imprisoned, witness may be produced or his deposition taken.

415. Witness duly subpoenaed exempt from arrest in a civil
action.

416. Arrest of witness under subpoena void; may be discharged
on affidavit.
§ 402. ‘Subpoenas may require witnesses alone, or to bring books,

ete., but not more than thirty miles if out of the county.

A subpoena may require not only the attendance of the
person to whom it is directed, at a particular time and place,
to testify as a witness, but may also require him to bring any
books, documents or other things under his control, to be
used as evidence. No person shall be required to attend as
awitness before any Court, J udge,Justice or any other officer
out of the county in which he resides, unless the distance be
less than thirty miles from his place of residence to the place

of trial.
‘Amended 1855, 197.

§ 403. ‘Subpoena shall be issued, in what bases.

The subpoena shall be issued as follows :
First-—To require attendance before a Court, or at the trial
of an issue therein, it shall be issued under the seal of the

'3 Ncrrx.—'l'ms chapter is applicable to Jusfloes’ Courts ; pad. I 620.

Court before which the attendance is required, or in which
the issue is pending.

Second-—To require attendance out of the Court before a.
Judge, Justice, or other officer authorized to administer oaths
or take testimony in any matter under the la.ws of this State,
it shall be issued by the Judge, Justice, or any other odicer
before whom the attendance is required.

Thz'rd-—To require attendance before a Commissioner appointed to take testimony by a Court of a foreign country, or
of the United States, or of any other State in the United
States, or of any other district or county within this State, or
before any officer or officers empowered by the laws of the
United States to take testimony, it may be issued by any
Judge or Justice of the Peace in places within their respective jurisdiction, with like power to enforce attendance, and,
upon certificate of contumacy to said Court to punish contempt of their process as such Judge or Justice could exercise if the subpoena directed the attendance of the witness

before their Courts in a matter pending therein.

‘Amended 1859, 218; 1866, 708. Bancroft's Forms, 603, 611, and 612. Abb.
Forms, 1585-1594.

§ 404. Service of subpoena.

The service of a subpoena shall be made by showing the
original, and delivering a copy, or a ticket containing its substance, to the Witness personally, giving or offering to him at
the same time, if demanded by him, the fees to which he is
entitled for travel to and from the place designated, and one
day’s attendance there. Such service may be made by any
person.

§ 405. Service on concealed witness.

If a witness be concealed in a building or vessel, so as to
prevent the service of a subpoena upon him, any Court or
Judge, or any oiiicer issuing the subpoena, may, upon proof
by affidavit of the concealment and of the materiality of the
witness, make an order that the Sheriff of the county serve
the subpoena; and the Sheriff shall serve it accordingly,
and for that purpose may break into the building or vessel
where the witness is concealed.

§ 406. Persons present may be required to testify without subpoena.

A person present in Court, or before a judicial officer, may
be required to testify, in the same manner as if he were in
attendance upon a subpoena issued by such Court or officer.

§ 407. A witness duly served shall attend as required.

It shall be the duty of a witness, duly served with a subpoena, to attend at the time appointed, with any papers
under his control required by the subpoena, to answer all
pertinent and legal questions; and unless sooner discharged,
to remain till the testimony is closed.

1. Courts are apt to take too narrow a view of the rights of cross-examination, coniining it to the subject matter of the examination-in-chief. Undoubtedly the cross-examination cannot go beyond that matter, but it ought
to be allowed a very free range within it. The witness may be sifted as to
every fact touching the matters as to which he testfiles, so that his temper,
leanings, relations to the parties and cause. his intelligence, the accuracy of
his memory. his disposition to tell the truth, his character, his means of

knowle e, his general and particular acquaintance with the subset matter,
ma ll); ully tested. Jackson v. Feather River and Gibsonville 00., 14
Ca . .

§ 408. Witness shall answer pertinent questions.

A witness shall answer questions legal and pertinent to the
matter in issue, though his answer may establish a claim
against himself; but he need not give an answer which will
have a tendency to subject him to punishment for a felony;
nor need [he] give an answer which will have a direct tendency to degrade his character, unless it be to the very fact
in issue, or to a fact from which the fact at issue would be
presumed. But a witness shall answer as to the fact of his

previous conviction for felony.

1. Where the answer of a witness would subject him to criminal punishment, he is not privileged from answering on the und that his answer

would di ce him, but solel on the ground that e is not compelled to
oriminate imself. Ea: parte , 7 Cal. 184.

2. Being sentenced on a conviction for etit larceny does not disqualify as
a witness. People v. Shay, 10 Abb. Pr.  413.

§ 409. Penalty for disobedience to subpoena, etc.

Disobedience to a subpoena, or a refusal to be sworn, or to
answer as a witness, or to subscribe an aiiidavit or deposition
when required, may be punished as a contempt by the Court,
or oliicer issuing the subpoena, or requiring the witness to be

sworn ; and if the witness be a party, his complaint may be
dismissed, or his answer stricken out.

§410. Witness disobeying subpoena shall forfeit one hundred
dollars and all damages.

A witness disobeying a subpoena shall also forfeit to the
party aggrieved the sum of one hundred dollars, and all
damages which he may sustain by the failure of the witness
to attend; which forfeiture and damages may be recovered
in a civil action.

§411. If a witness fail to attend, the Court may issue a
warrant.

In case of failure of a witness to attend, the Court or oilicer issuing the subpoena, upon proof of the service thereof,
and of the failure of the witness, may issue a Warrant to the
Sherilf of the county to arrest the witness and bring him
before the Court or officer where his attendance was re

quired.
Bancroft’s Forms, 272.

§ 412. If a witness bea prisoner, an order for his examination
or production may be made.

If the witness be a prisoner, confined in a jail or prison
within this State, for any other cause than a sentence for
felony, an order for his examination in the prison upon deposition, or for his temporary removal and production before
a Court or officer for the purpose of being orally examined,
may be made as follows :

let. By the Court itself, in which the action or special prooeeding is pending;

2d. By a Judge of the Supreme Court, District Court, or
County Judge of the county where the action or proceeding
is pending, if before a Judge or other person out of Court.

§ 413. Such order can be made only upon ajidavit.

Such order can only be made upon affidavit, showing the
nature of the action or proceeding, the testimony expected
from the witness, and its materiality.

§ 414. When imprisoned witness may be produced or his deposition taken.

If the witness be imprisoned in the county where the
action or proceeding is pending, and for a cause other than a
sentence for felony, his production may be required. In all
other cases, his examination, when allowed, shall be taken upon
deposition.

§ 415. Witness duly subpoenaed exempt from arrest in a civil
action.

Every person who has been in good faith served with a
subpoena to attend as a witness before a Court, Judge, Commissioner, referee, or other person, in a case where the disobedience of the witness may be punished as a contempt,
shall be exonerated from arrest, in a civil action, while going
to the place of attendance, necessarily remaining there, and
returning therefrom.

1. This section does not exempt him from obeying any ordinary process of

the Court, e. g.. to attend and answer concerning his property, under a supplementary writ. Page v. Randall, 6 Cal. 32.

§416. Arrest of witness under subpama void, may be discharged on ajidavit.

The arrest of a witness contrary to the last section shall
be void; but an officer shall not be liable to the party for
making the arrest in ignorance of the facts creating the exoneration, but shall be liable for any subsequent detention of
the party, if such party claim the exemption and make an
affidavit, stating:

1st. That he has been served with a subpoena to attend as
a witness before a Court, oiiicer, or other person ; specifying
the same, the place of attendance, and the action or proceeding in which the subpoena was issued ; and,

2d. That he has not been thus served by his own procurement with the intention of avoiding an arrest.

3d. That he is at the time going to theplace of attendance.,
or returning therefrom, or remaining there in obedience to
the subpmna. The affidavit may be taken by the officer, and
shall exonerate him from liability for discharging the witness
when arrested.

TITLE XLI.

CHAPTER III.—0f the examination of parties to an action or

proceeding, and of persons for whose immediate bene/it such
action or proceeding is prosecuted or defended.*

Sncrion 417. No action for discovery of evidence shall be allowed.

418. A party may be examined for the adverse party in the
same manner as any other witness

419. Such examination may be rebutted.

420. Penalty for refusal of a party to testify.

421. Part so called may be examined on his own behalf.
W en adverse party may be called in rebuttal.

422. A person for whose benefit an action is pgosecuted may
testify as if a party. And a party may examined on
his own behalf on notice.

423. Copartners, when parties, may be examined to prove
items of account.

§ 417. ‘No action for discovery of evidence shall be allowed.

No action to obtain a discovery under oath, in aid of the

prosecution or defense of another action or proceeding, shall
be allowed, nor shall any examination of a party he had on
behalf of the adverse party, except in the manner provided

by this and the foregoing chapter.

’ Amended 1863, 701. . _ _

1. A judgment was had in the District Court in favor of_ the appellant, and
against the respondent. _ Held, that after Judgment against him, it is too
late for pllamtiif to file his bill for discovery in aid 0 his defense, on the
ground t at it was meritorious, and lies entirely within the knowledge of the
Judgment creditor. Norris v. Danton, 2_Cul. 378. _

2. The general rule at common law is that parties to the record are not
competent to testify; and prior_ to the statute the only mode of urging the
conscience was by proceeding_iu equity  obtain a discovery. e statute
provides that no action for a discovery in aid of ‘the rosecution or defense of
another action shall be allowed, and the provision at “a party may be examined as a witness at the instance of the adverse party" was intended as a
substitute. Easterly v. Bassignano, 20 Cal. 

3. The only object to be gained by a plaintifff in anticipating a defense and
replying to it in_advance, is to put the adverse arty upon is oath without
making him a witness; and the effect of allowing :1 I8 would be to establish a

t

system of -discovery in conflict with the spirit 0 e statute. Caqjield v. Tobias,
21 Cal. 349.

4. Where the pleader attemptsto introduce the peculiar formal allegations,
many of which were mere fictions, found in the old forms of declaration in common law, actions or bill in equity, his pleading is liable to the objection of irrelevancy. and the objectionable matter should be stricken out on motion. In
this case the pleader has attcm ted to obtain a discovery under oath by means
of his pleading. This is forbl den by the four hundred and seventeenth sec 

‘ This chapter applicable to Justices’ Ooui-ts,pod. I620.

tion of the Practice Act,and the sections following it provide how such discovery can be obtained, that is, by examining the party as a witness. Bowen V.
Aubrey, 22 Cal. 570.

Section 418.—Repealed April 27th, 1863, p. 701.

§ 419. Such examination may be rebutted.

The examination of a party, thus taken, may be rebutted

by adverse testimony.
N. Y. Code, g 393.

§ 420. ‘Penalty for refusal of a party to testify.

If an adverse party refuse to attend and testify at the
trial, or to give his deposition before trial, or upon a com‘
mission, when required, his complaint or answer may be
stricken out, and judgment be taken against him ; and he may

be also, in the discretion of the Court, proceeded against as

in other cases for a contempt.
‘Amended 1863, 701.

Section 421.—Repealed April 27a, 1863, p. 701.

Section 422.—Bepealed April 27th, 1863, p. 702.
Amended 1861, 522.

Section 423.—Bepealed April 27th, 1868, p. 702.
Amended 1854, 95.

T I T L E X L I I .
CHAPTER IV .—0n a_17i(lavits.*

Sncnox 42¢ Amdavits to be used in this State, before whom may be
taken in this State.
425. It‘ made in another State of the United States, before whom
taken.

426. If made in a foreign country, before whom taken.
427. Certificate of clerk, if taken before a Judge of a Court out
of this State.

§ 424. A jidavits to be used in this State, before whom may be
taken in this State.

An aiiidavit to be used before any Court, Judge, or officer

‘This chapter is applicable to Justices’ Courts; pod. I 620.

_of this State, may be taken before any Judge or Clerk of

any Court, or any Justice of the Peace, or Notary Public in

this State.

1. Where the affidavit of a juror is sworn to be correct by another party, it
may be treated as the |atter‘s original atiidavit. Wilson v. Berryman, 5 Cal. 44.
2. Courts take judicial notice of the official character of Justices of the Peace

in their own States. And an affidavit, in which the otlicial character of the

gusitice before whom it is taken, does not appear, is good. Ede v. Johnson, 15
a . 53.

§ 425. If made in another State of the United States, before
whom taken.

An affidavit taken in another State of the United States,
to be used in this State, shall be taken before a Commissioner
appointed by the Governor of this State to take aiiidavits
and depositions in such other State, or before any Judge of a
Court of Record having a seal.

§ 426. If made in a foreign country, before whom taken.

An affidavit taken in a foreign country to be used 111 this
State, shall be taken before an Ambassador, Minister, or Consul of the United States, or before any Judge of a Court of
Record having a seal in such foreign country.

§427. Certificate of the Clerk, if taken before a Judge of a
Court out of this State.

When an aliidavit is taken before a Judge of a Court in
another State, or in a foreign country, the genuineness of
the signature of the Judge, the existence of the Court, and

the fact that such Judge is a member thereof, shall be certitied by the Clerk of the Court under the seal thereof.

TITLE XLIII.

CHAPTER V.—0f depositions taken in this State.*

Sxcrrox 428. Depositions of witnesses in this State maybe taken in
certain cases.
429. Depositions may be taken before a Judge, etc., upon notice to the adverse party.
430. Manner of taking depositions. May be used by either

‘party on the trial.
431. A eposition may be read at any stage of the action or
proceeding.

‘Thts chapter tsappltasbletolnsticefoourta. pct. um.

 

§428. Depositions of witnesses in this State may be taken in
certain cases.

The testimony of a witness in this State may be taken by
deposition in an action at any time after the service of the
summons or the appearance of the defendant; and in a special proceeding, after a question of fact has arisen therein, in
the following cases:

1st. When the witness is a party to the action or proceeding, or a person for whose immediate benefit the action or
proceeding is prosecuted or defended ;

2d. When the witness resides out of the county in which
his testimony is to be used ;

3d. When the witness is about to leave the county where
the action is to be tried, and will probably continue absent
when the testimony is required ;

4th. When the witness, otherwise liable to attend the trial,
is nevertheless too infirm to attend.

1 Taking testimony by de sitions is in derogation of the common law,

 must not on] be done the proper officer, but every requirement of
law must be comp ‘ed with. cC'ann v. Beach, 2 Cal. 25.

2. All the requisitions of the statute, in relation to the taking of depositions. must be strictly complied with; and this must a pear upon the
de sition to entitle itto admission. Dye v. Bailey, 2 Cal. 33 .

. The testimon of a party to an action may be taken by de sition, if
he resides out of t e county in which his testimony is to be use , although
he resides within less than thirty miles of the place of trial. Slcidmore 7.

Taylor, 39 Cal. 619.
§429. ‘Depositions may be taken before a Judge, etc-., upon
notice to the adverse party.

Either party may have the deposition taken, of a witness
in this State, before any Judge, or Clerk, or any Justice of the
Peace, or Notary Public in this State, on serving on the adverse party previous notice of the time and place of examination, together with a copy of an affidavit, showing that the
case is one mentioned in the last section. At any time during
the forty days immediately after the service of summons by
publication has been completed, and at any time thereafter.
when the defendant has not appeared, the notice required by
this section may be served on the Clerk of the Court where
the action is pending. Such notice shall be at’ least five days,
and, in addition, one day for every twenty-five miles of the

distance of the place of examinationfrom the residence of
the person to whom the notice is given, unless, for a cause
shown, a Judge, by order, prescribe a shorter time. When a
shorter time is prescribed, a copy of the order shall be served
with the notice.

‘Amended 1859, 218 ; Bancroft’s Forms, 550-551.
1. A slight error in the title of a cause, where there is no other snit mling between the parties, will not invalidate the notice. M ills v. p, 3
Ca . 94.

2. The decision of such motion'rests in the sound discretion of the Court.

who must decide upon the sulilciency, or otherwise, of the grounds upon
which such motion is made. Id.

3. Proof of notice to take a de osition, where the written notice was defective, was held good, when made y parol and conforming substantially to the
statute. Id.

4. An appearance at the time and place, and cross-examining the witness,
waives whatever objection may be ha because the notice is too short. Jones
v. Love, 9 Cal. 68.

5. An order to take testimony by deposition should specify the notice to be
given to the adverse A deposition taken upon an order without such
specification, where opposite part has not had reasonable notice, ought
not to be read in evidence. Ellis v. aszynslc;/, 5 Cal. 444.

6. Notice of time and place having been given, it is a matter of small importance who took the deposition, particularly in view of the inconvenience
tsznéiaileézgg which would result from a different rule. Williams v. Chadbourne,

7. It being ob'ected by plaintifff to a deposition: lst, that the co y of the
order of the Ju ge. fixing the time for taking it, did not mention e notice
to be given the adverse party; 2d, that no correct copy of said order was
served ; 3d, that no sumcient notice to take the deposition was ever given ;
the objection was overruled, “ because the original order of the Jud e, made
on aliidavit, fixed the time of notice at three days, and because p 'ntii1"s
counsel acknowledged service in writing of a copy thereof March 8th, 1859,
more than three days before the taking of the deposition." Held, that there
was no error; that the objection assigned was matter for the Court, and its
discretion was roperlfy exercised ; that reasonable notice should be given of
the time and p ace 0 taking testimony: but what is reasonable notice, depends on the particular circumstances. Attwood v. Fr-ioot, 17 Cal. 37.

8. To make the testimony of a witness admissible, he must be competent
at the time of takingihis deposition. It is the effect of the interest on the

witness at the time s testimony is taken that disqualfiles him. Kimball v.
Gearhart, 12 Cal. 27.

§430. Manner of taking depositions; may be used by either
party on the trial. .

Either party may attend such examination and put such
questions, direct and cross, as may be proper. The deposition, when completed, shall be carefully read to the witness
and corrected by him in any particular, if desired; it shall
then be subscribed by the witness, certified by the Judge or
officer taking the deposition, inclosed in an envelope or wrapper sealed, and directed to the Clerk of the Court in which
the action is pending, or to such person as the parties in

writing may agree upon, and either delivered by the Judge
or officer to the Clerk or such person, or transmitted through

the mail, or by some safe private opportunity; and thereupon such deposition may be used by either party upon the
trial, or other proceeding, against any party giving or receiving the notice, subject to all legal exceptions. But if the
parties attend at the examination, no objection to the form of
an interrogatory shall be made at the trial, unless the same
was stated at the time of the examination. If the deposition be taken by the reason of the absence or intended absence from the county of the witness, or because he is too
infirm to attend, proof by affidavit or oral testimony shall be
made at the trial that the witness continues absent, or infirm,
to the best of the deponent’s knowledge or belief. The

deposition thus taken may also be read in case of the death
of the Witness.

1. Where a depositionis taken ea: parte, though after notice, and the witness
is thereforee not subjected to a cross-examination, the language used by him
will be suspiciously regarded, and only a very literal interpretation given to
it.  g v. Hill, 6 Cal. 17.

2. are is nothing in the statute that requires that exceptions to de ositions shall be filed before the time of trial. The objection can be m e at
tangy tggae before the depositions are read in evidence. Dye v. Bailey, 2

3. The certificate of the notary, as set forth in the case, is sumcient. Mills
v. Dunlap, 3 Cal. 94.
4. Depositions are subject to all legal exceptions at the trial, save only the

objection to the form of an interrogatory where the parties attend the examination. Lawrence v. Fulton, 19 Cal. 683.

5. Where the arties stipulated that a deposition, which had been taken in
another action, ould be used on the trial, “with the same force and sheet,
subject to the same exceptions as if taken in this case:” Held, that the stipulation was a waiver of any objections to the competency of the witness. Brooks
v. Crosby, 22 Cal. 42. 6. If, at the end of a deposition taken by a commissioner out of the State,
there is a jurat giving the date when the deposition was subscribed and sworn
to, it is not necessary that the further certificate of a compliance with the
four hundred and thirtieth section of the Practice Act should be dated. Elgin
v. Hill, 27 Cal. 373.

7. If the parties stipulate that a commissioner may take a deposition upon
written interrtogatories, and the stipulation says nothing about the day the
same may be en by the commissioner, it is not nec that the commissioner state in his certiilcate the day the same was taken. d.

8. A certificate to a deposition must state that the deposition was readto the
witness before signing; it must set forth an actual compliance with all the requirements of the statute. The admission of hearsay testimony to a fact admitted by both parties, is not error. Williams v. Chadbourne, 6 Cal. 559.

9. A party w 0 appears at the taking of a deposition, and examines the
witness without objecting to his competency, cannot afterwards interpose that .
objection. Brooks v. Crosby, 22 Cal. 42.

10. When a deposition may be excluded.—A whole de sition cannot
be excluded on the ground that certain questions asked on e examination

were im roper. The objection to the deposition on this ground mustbe connned to the particular uestions, otherwise any error in permitting the questions will be waived. ' gins v. Wortell, 18 Cal. 330.

11. It is not essential to the certidcate of a notary to a de 'tion taken
before him, that it state that the deposition was read over to e witness before signing. But if the certificate states that the depositionwas corrected by
the notary, under the direction of the witness, it is a sumcient com liance
with the statute, because showing, by necessary implication, that the eposition was either read to or examined by the witness. Id.

12. If part of the de sition beliable to the exception of hearsay, this goes
only to the rejection 0 that part, and the objection should be taken at the
hearing. Myers v. Casey, 14 Cal. 642.

13. ere a rule of a District Court requires three days’ notice of exceptions to depositions unless the exceptions appear on the face of the deposition, the meaning is that the objection—-not the objectionable matter—must
ap ear on the face of the deposition. Id. ‘

4. It isno ground for the exclusion of a deposition that it was noticed to
be taken before the County J u e, but was taken before the county clerk.
Williams v. Chadbourne, 6 Cal. 59.

15. A motion to suppress the reading of a deposition, before the case in
which it was taken is put upon trial, is premature; the proper time to object
to su:;:%:lle[&sition is when itis ofered in evidence on the trial. Mills v. Dunlap, . .

§ 431. A deposition may be used at any stage of the action or

proceeding.
When a deposition has been once taken, it may be read in

any stage of the same action or proceeding by either party,
and shall then be deemed the evidence of the party reading it.

1. The readin of evidence taken by deposition, although done after the
j have re‘ ,isasmucha part of thetrialasany other. ThePeoptev.
K0 , 5 Cal. 72.

2.  Whether a rty can object, on second trial to the reading of a

deposition which he s ered his adversary to read on the first trial without
ob ection. Myers v. Casey, 14 Cal. 642.

. The object of this section is  enable either party to read a deposition
admissible in itself, once taken, in any stage of the action or proceeding-—

nail to gpgder it admissible simply because it was taken. Turner v. Mcllhrmey,
8 . .

T I T L E X L I V .
CHAPTER VI.—0f depositions taken out of this S'tate.*

SIIGIION 432. Testimony of a witness out of the State may be taken after service of summons or issue joined.
433. Such deposition shall be taken upon commission issued
under seal, upon notice; to whom to issue.
434. Proper interrogatories, direct and cross, may be prepared
or may be waived by the parties.
435. Authority and duties of commissioner.
436. Trial shall not be posponed for return of commission, exce _t upon showing of materiality of evidence and due
nce.

"1‘hlsc.hspterlsspplicsbletoJustlces'Oourts.pod, I020.

§432. Testimony of a witness out of the State may be taken
after service of summons or issue joined.

The testimony of a witness out of the State may be taken
by deposition, in an action, at any time after the service of
the summons, or the appearance of the defendant; and in a

special proceeding, at any time after a question of fact has
arisen therein.

1. Dili ence must be used in applying for a commission. Pierson v. Holbroolc. 2 al. 598. Vida Rule 46.

§ 433. Such deposition shall be taken upon commission issued
under seal upon notice; to whom to issue.

The deposition of a witness out of this State shall be taken
upon commission issued from the Court, under the seal of the
Court, upon an order of the Judge, or Court, or County
Judge, on the application of either party, upon five days’
previous notice to the other. It shall be issued to a person
agreed upon between the parties, or if they do not agree, to
any Judge or Justice of the Peace selected by the oiiicer
granting the commission, or to a commissioner appointed by
the Governor of this State to take affidavits and depositions

in other States.*
Banci-oft‘s Forms, 545-6.

‘Eras-u'rI:s or 1858. 22.

The nrst section of an act entitled “ An act empowering the Governor to appoint commissioners of deeds, and defining the duties of much oiiicera," passed March Both, I850, is
hereby amended so as to read as follows: “The Governor may. when, in hi: Judgment, it
may be necessary, appoint in each .of the United States. and in each of the terr-tories and
districts of the United states, and in each foreign state. territory, and colony. one or more
commissioners. to continue in office four years, unless removed by the Governor. Every
such commissioner shall have power to administer oaths and to hire depositions and ovidutrilstobe used in this state: andalso to take the acknowledgment or proof of anydeed or
other instrument to be recorded in this State."

Sraruns or 1861, 553.
0narrInO0OOXCIV.—Adtocuthorisstheta1ciayqf depositiomhfweiyncouatria.

Sncrtoit 1. The testimony of a witness in a foreign country may be taken by deposition
in any civil action pending in any of the District Oourts of this state, at any time after the
service of the summons. or the appearance or the defendant; and in a special proceeding.
at any time alter a question of fact has arisen therein.

810. 2. The deposition of awitness in a foreign country shall be taken upon commission issued from a District Oourt. under the seal thereof. upon an order of such Court. or
the Judge thereof. on the application of either party. upon the days previous notice to the
other. it shall be issued to a person or persons agreed upon between the parties. or if they
do not agree, to any person or persons nominated by the Court or Judge granting the comBnc. 3. Such proper interrogatories. direct and cross, as the respective parties may prepare.tobesettied. if thepsrtiesdisagreeastotheir form. bythe Court or Judge granting
the order for the commission at a day nxed in the order. may be annexed to the commission; or when the parties agree to that mode, the examination may be without written
interrogatories.

81:0. 4. The commission shall authorize the commissioner to administer an oath to the
witness and to take his deposition in answer to the interrogatories; or when the examination is to be without interrogatories, in respect to the question in dispute, and to certify the

§434. Proper interrogatories may be prepared, or may be
waived, by the parties.

Such proper interrogatories, direct and cross, as the respective parties may prepare, to be settled, if the parties disagree
as to their form, by the Judge or oiiicer granting the order
for the commission, at a day fixed in the order, may be annexed to the commission; or when the parties agree to that
mode, the examination may be without written interrogatories.

1. If a commission to take the deposition of a witness out of the State is
issued, on the application of one part without consent of the other. to a person who is not a Judge or Justice of e Peace, or a commissioner appointed
by the Governor of this State, and the party who does not consent, alter the
appointment, files cross interrogatories, and stipulates as to the manner in
which the deposition shall be returned, is estopped from saying that the commissioner was improperly appointed. Crowther v. Rowlandson, 27 Cal. 383.

§ 435. Authority and duties of commissioner.

The commission shall authorize the commissioner to administer an oath to the witness, and to take his deposition in
answer to the interrogatories; or when the examination is to
be Without interrogatories, in respect to the question in dispute ; and to certify the deposition to the Court, in a sealed
envelop directed to the Clerk, or other person designated or

agreed upon, and forwarded to him by mail or other usual

channel of conveyance.
Bancroft's Forms, 547-8.

1. If the parties stipulate that a commissioner may take a deposition upon
written interrogatories, and the stipulation says nothing about the day the same
may be taken by the commissioner, it is not necessary that the commissioner
state in his certificate the day the same was taken. Elgin v. 11 ill, 27 Cal. 373.

§ 436. Trial shall not be postponed for return of commission,
except upon showing of materiality of evidence and due diligence.
A trial, or other proceeding, shall not be postponed by reason of a commission not returned, except upon evidence satisfactory to the Court that the testimony of the witness is
necessary, and that proper diligence has been used to obtain it.

 

deposition to the court in a sealed or closed envelop. directed to the clerk or other person

designated or agreed upon, and forward to him by mail or other usual channel of conveyance.

em. 5. When a deposition has been once taken in accordance with the provisions of this
act. it may be snhtect to legal objections, be read in evidence in any rage of the same action
or proceeding. by either party. and shati then be deemed the evidence 0! the partyreading it.
8:0. 6. Thisactshaniakeeiiectiromandatteritspassage.

1. Where a party applied for a continuance to enable him to take the deposition of an absent witness, and the proof which was designed to be obtained
would constitute no defense to the “plaintifff ’s claim, the application was properly re'ected. Hawley v. Stirling, 2 Cal. 470.

2. T e answer of defendant was filed May 10th, 1852, and the application for
a continuance to take testimony in New York was filed June 14th, 1852, during
which interval no attempt was made to sue out a commission for the purpose.
Held, that this is not sumcient diligence to entitle the party to his application.
Pierson v. Holbroolc, 2 Cal. 598. ee § 432.

TITLE XLV.

CHAPTER VII.—0f proceedings to perpetuate testimong/.*

SECTION 437. Testimony may be perpetuated.

438. The applicant shall present verified petition to a Judge.
Granting and service of order.

439. Upon due service of notice, the depositions of the witnesses
named may be taken.

440. Manner of taking depositions and tiling thereof.

441. Anidavits, etc., filed with depositions shall be prima facis
proof of the facts therein stated.

442. Manner of using such depositions, if trial he had.

§ 437. ‘Testimony may be perpetuated.

The testimony of a witness, or witnesses, may be taken and

perpetuated as provided in this chapter.
Amended 1859, 219.

§ 438. ‘The applicant shall present verified petition. Granting
and service of order.

The applicant shall present to a District or County Judge
a petition, verified by the oath of the applicant, stating:

lst. That the applicant expects to be a party to an action
in a Court in this State, and in such case, the name or names
of the person, or persons, whom he expects will be adverse
parties ; or,

2d. That the proof of some fact, or facts, is necessary to perfect the title to property in which he is interested, or to
establish marriage, descent, heirship, or any other matter
which may hereafter become material to establish, though no
suit may at the time be anticipated, or, if anticipated, he
may not know the parties to such suit; and,

‘This chapter is applicable to Justices’ L ourts ; post, 5620.

3d. The name or names of the witness, or witnesses, to be
examined, his or their place of residence, and a general
outline of the facts expected to be proved. The Judge, to
whom such petition is presented, shall make an order allowing
the examination, and prescribing the notice to be given, which
notice, if parties are known and reside in this State, shall be
personally served on them ; and if unknown, such notice shall
be served on the Clerk of the county where the property to
be affected by such evidence is situated, and a ‘notice thereof
published in some newspaper to be designated by the Judge

making the order. ,
‘Amended 1859, 219. Abb. Forms, 1581-4.

§ 439. ‘ Upon due service of notice, the depositions of the witnesses named may be taken.

Upon proof of service of the notice, as provided in the last
section,it shall be the duty of the Judge, before whom the depositions are ordered to be taken, to proceed to take the depositions of the witnesses named in said petition, upon the
facts therein set forth, and the taking of the same may be

continued, from time to time, in the discretion of the Judge.
‘Amended 1859, 219.

§ 440. ‘.Manner of taking depositions and filing thereof.

The examination shall be by question and answer, unless
the parties otherwise agree. The deposition, when taken,
shall be carefully read to, and subscribed by, the witness,
then certified by the Judge, and immediately thereafter, filed
in the office of the Clerk of the District Court of the county

where the same was taken, together with the order for the
examination, the petition on which the same was granted, and

the proof of service of notice.
‘Amended 1859, 219.

§44l. ‘Ajidavits, etc., filed with depositions, shall be prima
facie proof of the facts therein stated.

The aliidavits, or other proof filed with the depositions, or
certified copies thereof, shall be prima facie evidence of the

facts therein stated.
‘Amended 1859, 219.

§ 442. ‘Manna of using such depositions, if trial be had.

If a trial be had between the parties named in the petition
as parties expectant, or their successors in. interest, or between any parties wherein it may be material to establish the
facts which such depositions prove, or tend to prove, upon
proof of the death or insanity of the witness or witnesses, or
of his or their inability to attend the trial by reason of age,
sickness, or settled infirmity, the deposition or depositions, or
certified copies thereof, may be used by either party, subject
to all legal objections. But if the parties attend at the examination, no objection to the form of an interrogatory shall

be made at the trial, unless the same was stated at the examination.
‘Amended 1859, 219.

TITLE XLVI.

CHAPTER VHI.—Administratz'on of oaths and aj‘irmations.*

Szcrrox 443. Authorizing certain persons to administer oaths.
444. A person ma be sworn according to the peculiar ceremonies of 's religion.
445. A witness may, instead of taking an oath, make an
amrmation.

§ 443. Authorizing certain persons to administer oaths.

Every Court of this State, every Judge or Clerk of any
Court, every Justice of the Peace, and every Notary Public,
and every officer authorized to take testimony, or to decide
upon evidence in any proceeding, shall have power to admin‘
ister oaths or allirmations.

1. The attestation or certificate of a notary, that an affidavit was sworn to
or afiirmed and subscribed before him, is regular, although his seal is not
amxed. Mills v. Dunlap, 3 Cal. 97.

§ 444. A person may be sworn according to the peculiar ceremonies if his religion.

When a person is sworn who believes in any other than
the Christian religion, he may be sworn according to the pe'
culiar ceremonies of his religion, if there be any such.

0 This chapter is applicable to Justices’ courts; port, I 620.

§ 445. A witness may, instead of taking an oath, make an
aj‘irmatz'on. '

Any witness who desires it may, at his option, instead of
taking an oath, make his solemn affirmation or declaration, by
assenting, when addressed in the following form: “ You do
solemnly afiirm, that the evidence you shall give in this issue
(or matter), pending between ——-— and ————, shall be the
truth. the whole truth, and nothing but the‘ truth.” Assent

to this affirmation shall be made by the answer, “I do.” A ‘

false aihrmation or declaration shall be deemed perjury,
equally with a false oath.

TITLE XLVII.

CHAPTER IX.—Inspectz'on of documents, and miscellaneous
provisions as to records and writings.

SECTION 446. The Court may, upon notice, order a party to grant an
inspection of a book, etc., relating to the merits of a
case.

447. When there may be evidence of the contents of a Wfitr
ing other than itself.

448. IDtl‘?'(l111Cl§lOD in evidence of a writing altered in a materi part.

449. Proof of a judicial record of this State, or of the United
States.

450. Proof of the records, etc., of any other State of the
United States.

451. Proof of a judicial record of a forei country.

452. Proof of a copy of a judicial recor of a foreigi country.

453. Printed copies of statutes, etc., of another State or Government, published by authority, are presumptive evidence of such laws.

454. Impression of a seal of a Court or public office.

§ 446. The Court may, upon notice, order a party to grantan
inspection of a book, etc., relating to the merits of a case.

 

"8'ra'ru'n:s or 1861 106.
An Ad concerning the administration of oaths. Passed Hay lat, 1851

Bncrrou 1. That all officers of this State, authorized by law to administer oaths or ammutip 11% may certify the same uuder_their hands. without afiixing to such certificates their-seals
o o co.

Sac. 2. That all oaths or amrmations heretofore administered by any officer of this Stain.
and by him eartined. under his hand. without the seal of office, shall b! as effectual, for all
purposes, asit suchsealhad beenatllxodtosuchcertiilcate.

Any Court in which an action is pending, or a Judge thereof, or a County Judge, may, upon notice, order either party
to give to the other Within a specified time an inspection
and copy, or permission to take a copy of any book, document, or paper in his possession, or under his control, containing evidence relating to the merits of the action, or the
defense therein. ‘If compliance With the order be refused,

the Court may exclude the book, document, or paper, from
being given in evidence ;_ or if wanted as evidence by the
party applying, may direct the jury to presume it to be such
as he alleges it to be; and the Court may also punish the
party refusing for a contempt. This section shall not be
construed to prevent a party from compelling another to produce books, papers, or documents, when he is examined as a
witness.
N. Y. Code, § 388. Notice, sumciency of; see § 447.

1. The Practice Act authorizes the Court to make an order directing a (party
ta) rgggee books and papers in Court. Bumstead v. Empire Mining 0.,

§ 447. When there may be evidence of the contents of a writing other than itself.’

There shall be no evidence of the contents of a writing,
other than the writing itself, except in the following cases :

lst. When the original has been lost or destroyed '; in
which case proof of the loss or destruction shall first be made ;

2d. When the original is in the possession of the party
against _whom the evidence is offered, and he fails to produce
it after reasonable notice ;

3d. When the original is a record or other document, in
the custody of a public oliicer;

4th. When the original has been recorded, and a certified
copy of the record is made evidence by statute ;

5th. When the original consists of numerous accounts or
other documents, which cannot be examined in Court without
great loss of time, and the evidence sought from them is only
the general result of the whole.

1. First subdivision.--—In suit by the assignee of a book account, the
assignor is a competent witness to prove to the Court the loss of the book of
original entries, as a reliminary to the introduction of secondary evidence of
its contents. Cauljieg v. Sanders, 17 Cal. 569.

2. The facts and circumstances of the destruction must be shown, in the

nrst instance, to the Court, to enable it to judge of the propriety of admitting
or refusing the secondary evidence. The same principle which allows the
parties to prove by their own testimony the destruction, must necessarily
allow them to rove all such facts and circumstances as are requisite to the
introduction of)
Ezton et al., 9 Cal. 430.

3. It is not a matter of course to allow secondary evidence of the contents
of an instrument in suit upon proof of its destruction. If the destruction
was the result of accident, or was without the ency or consent of the owner,
such evidence is generally admissible. But, if e destruction was voluntarily
and deliberately made by the owner, or with his assent, the admissibility of

the secondary evidence. Bagley v. Administrator of .Hc.l{icL-£2, .

the evidence will de nd upon the cause or motive of the party, in effecting I

or assenting to the estruction. Id.

4. As to parol evidence to prove contents of instruments destroyed by fire. _

G>llier v. Corbett, 15 Cal. 183.

5. A copy of a notice posted on a mining claim to show its extent isnot
admissible in evidence, if the notice itself be attainable. Such evidence is
secondary, and is admissible only u n the terms which control its introduction in other cases. Lombardo v. Fmuson, 15 Cal. 372.

6. Where the record book containing a 'udgment has been destroyed b fire,
secondary evidence is admissible to estab ‘sh the fact of the existence 0 such
judgment and its contents. Ames v. Boy, 12 Cal. 11.

7. Proof that a notice upon a minin claim has been torn, and that the remaining portion is (as the witness thingks) illegible and defaced, is enough to
introduce a copy of it. Dunning el al. v. Rankin, 19 Cal. 640.

8. E. Lawrence testided that he once had a deed in his ossession, and at
nrst thought that F. had it now, but that he had received a etter from F. saying that the witness had not returned said deed to him; now he was satisfied
it was not in F.’s possession. The plaintiff also made oath he had never had
the deed. Held, to be insuilicient to introduce parol proof of its contents.
Lawrence v. Fulton, 19 Cal. 683.

9. The proof of the loss of receipts, without proof of their genuineness, is
not a sumcient predicate for the admission of evidence as to their contents.
Reynolds v. Jourdan, 6 Cal. 108.

10. Party may testify to loss of inst:-ument.—Whatever may have been
the reason original] assigned, the true ground upon which the testimony
of parties is admitte to prove the destruction of written instruments, is this:
that the testimony relates to matters preliminary and incidental, is addressed
solely to the Court, and does not affect the issue to be tried by the jury. Upon
such matters, the rule as to the incompetency of ‘es and interested persons does not apply. The testimony proves not ' in the cause; it only
pre ares the way for the introduction of proof. The existence and contents
of e instruments must be established by distinct and competent evidence.
Bagley v. Eaton, 10 Cal. 126; Landis v. Turner, 14 Cal. 575.

11. The rule is well settled that a party has a right to testify on his own
behalf to rove the loss of original documents, as a predicate for the introduction o secon evidence to prove their contents. Grass Valley Quart:
Mining Co. v. Stack: at al., 6 Cal. 413.

12. Proof of the loss of the instrument may be by the ‘s own affidavit.
to lay a foundation for roving the contents. But the a davit of a third
person, that a trunk of tge party containing his papers is lost, is insumcient,
without showing that it contained the paper in question. But this the party
may show by his own oath. Taking testimony b depositions is in derogation
of the common law, and must not only be done before the proper officer. but
every requirement of law must be complied with. De sitions ma be taken
by notaries public, but only when the witness resi es out of e county
where the suit is ending, and a commission is regularly sued out and directed
to the notary. cCann v. Beach, 2 Cal. 25.

13. In this State, the testimony ma be 'ven orally or offered by affidavit.
The convenience of the parties and o the gourt will sometimes suggest one
course and sometimes another. Either course may be adopted, and either
course will avail. Bagley v. Eaton, 10 Cal. 126.

14. Diligence necessary.—Evidence that the library and pa rs of the
party were destroyed by dre, except a few papers, unaccompanied y evidence
of search for the particular paper, is insullicient, for the paper in question
may be one of those saved from the fire. FoL9om’s Ewecutors v. Scott, 6 Cal.
460

15. Mere evidence of search is not sufficient, for the search may not have
been diligent. Id.

16. In an action of ejectment, where the plaintiff seeks to establish the loss
of a deed under which he de ' s title, in order to lay the foundation for
secondary evidence, the roof 0 search by the agent or attorney in fact of
the plaintifff, and inquiry y him of the grantor, is insumcient, as the plaintifff
himself in’ ht have the possession or control of the original, and, in the absence of 0. er evidence, his affidavit should have been ofered. Fallon v.
Daugherty, 12  104. _ _ . _

17. It is sumcient, pnma facze, to show that the grantee, or his representative or assignee, did not have the grant, and that it was not in the place where
it was last seen. Pierce v. Wallace, 18 Cal. 165.

18. Second subdivlsion.—Parol evidence of the contents of a written
conuact between the alleged husband and wife to live together without marriage is inadmissible, exc t after due notice to produce e contract, and refuml to do so. Poole J: 1' e v. Gerrard, 9 Cal. 593. 19. Parol proof of a written contract and ass’ ent thereof in writing,
not admissible, so as to charge the assignee, wit out notice to produce the
original or accounting for its loss. Grimes v. Fall, 15 Cal. 63.

20. Where it is impossible to produce the paper between the time of giving
the notice and the trial, that fact should be made to appear. Burke et al. v.
Ihble .Houniaz'n 00., 12 Cal. 403.

21. Form and sumcienoy of not:ice.—On the day of trial, plaintifffs
served upon the defendants notice to produce on trial “ the written a sement, cancelling the lease alleged to have been made between A. B. La 0 e
and the Table Mountain Water Company- said cement having been in e
by A. B. Laforge and the Table Mountain Water ompany—or arol evidence
will be given of its contents. " The defendants not producing e agreement,
parol evidence was admitted on trial of its contents. The notice was held
sumcient. Burke v. Table Mountain Water 00. and Laforge, 12 Cal. 403.

22. In this case it was shown that the paper was on the day of trial in the
possession of one of the attorneys of the defendant. Id.

23. The suiiiciency of notice to reduce a paper shown to be in the possession of a party is a question 0 discretion; and if it were impossible to
procure it between the time of giving notice and the trial, that fact should be
made to appear. Id.

24. Literal accuracy cannot be expected in the description of a paper in

the possession of the adverse party; such descri tion as will apprise a man
of ordinary intelligence of the document denied 1}; enough. Id.

25. Third subdivision.-—-Certided copies of grants made by the SurveyorGeneral of the United States are inadmissible in evidence unless the absence of
the original is accounted for. Hensley v. Ilirpey, 7 Cal. 288.

26. An affidavit, showing that the surveyor-General has adopted a rule refusing to allow the originals to be taken from the files, is a sudicient predicate. Id.

27. Where, to suit for goods sold and delivered, defendant pleads his discharge in insolvency: Held, that in sup ort of his plea he can offer in evidence
cei-lined copies of the decree, and of eac of the papers composing the record of
the insolvent proceedin separately; and that these papers need not all be attached

together, and the who e certified as one record. Gladstone v. Davidson, 18
Cal. 41.

28. A certidcate of the Surveyor-General. that the paper “is a true and accurate copy of a document ” on file in his office, is sufficient against the objection
that the cop is not duly authenticated, it being conceded that such document
was the ori ual grant. Natoma Water and Mining Co. v. Clarlcin, 14 Cal. 544.

29. A duly certified cop of a Mexican grant, from the United States SurveyorGeneral’s office, is admissi' ble in evidence against the objection that the absence

of the original is not accounted for. But it is admissible only when the original
itself would be. The statute (Acts of 1857, p. 317) simply removes the objection to the copy as secondary evidence. Id.

30. The easpediente, consisting of the petition, plot, reference, report, not of
concession, approval, grant. etc., filed in the archives of the Mexican Government, is as much an original document as the grant delivered to the grantee.
BALDWIN, J. Gregory v. McPherson, 13 Cal. 562.

31. Fourth subdivision.—A recorder, in certifying to copies of deeds from
his office, need not transcribe the notarial seal to the acknowledgment—the eel‘
titicate of acknowledgment in this case stating that the notary did amx his seal
Jones v. Martin, 16 Cal. 165.

32. A power of attorne , not affecting real estate, is not required to be recorded, and the fact of suc instrument being acknowledged and recorded doe
not authorize it to be read in evidence without proof of its execution. Stevens
7. Irwin, 12 Cal.'306.

33. Where an ori inal instrument, proved to be lost, has been recorded, it is
error to admit paro evidence of its contents, unless the failure to produce the
record is accounted for. Brotherton v. Hart, 6 Cal. 488.

34. To make the cop of an unrecorded deed evidence, the loss of the original
being shown, the test mony of the subscribing witnesses to the deed. if such
there be, should be had, at least to the fact of the execution of the paper, unles
the are shown to be without the jurisdiction of the Court. Smith v. Brannon,
13 al. 107.

35. The Act of 1851, section twenty-ilrst, gives to papers properly recorded
the like effect as originals, but it does not dispense with proof of execution.
Powe1l’s Heirs v. Hendriclai, 3 Cal. 427.

36. Section twenty-tirst of the Act of March, 1851, giving to copies of papers
from the County Recorder’s office the like effect as evidence as originals, does
not dispense with the production of the originals if they can be obtained; it
merely iixes the value of the copy as evidence, when it is necessary to be introduced, from the loss of the original. Macy v. Goodwin, 6 Cal. 579.

37. Copies of deeds dul filed for record in the recorder’s otllce of the
proper county, or which, ter having been duly filed for record. have been recorded in the proper book of records, are admissible in evidence in all Courts
and in all actions and proceedings with the like ed'ect as the originals could
be it‘ produced upon proof of the loss of the originals, or that they are not in
the power of the parties offering the copies. Mcjlinn v. 0‘Connor. 27 Cal. 238.

38. Where papers are not: in the control of party otfering copies in
evidence.—An atiidavit by a party to the suit that the original deed is not in
his possession or under his control, is sutiicient to admit in evidence a certified
copy from the recordcr’s office, the deed having been properly acknowled
and recorded, and the grantee being a third person. Slcinlcer v. Flohr, 13 ii].
638.

39. A party claiming title under a deed duly acknowledged is entitled to
have a certified copy of the record of the same received in evidence upon
making statute proof that he never had control of the original, and that it is
not in his power or control. Hurlburt v. Butenop, 27 Cal. 50.

40. The act of 1857. concerning copies of certain instruments in writing,
provides that duly certified copies of such deeds shall be received in evidence,
provided, it be shown that the said originals are not under the control of the
party offering the said copies, or are lost. Hicks v. Coleman et a1., 25 Cal. 129.

§ 448. Introduction in evidence of a writing altered in a mate»
rial part.

The party producing a writing as genuine, which has been:
altered, or appears to have been altered, after its execution,
in a part material to the question in dispute, and such altera-i
tion is not noted on the writing, shall account for the appeal“?

ance or alteration. He may show that the alteration was
made by another, without his concurrence, or was made with

the consent of the parties affected by it, or otherwise properly

or innocently made. If he do that, he may give the writing
in evidence, but not otherwise.

1. A party ofering a promissory note in evidence is not obliged, before the
same is admitted, to account for an erasure appearing upon the face of it,
unless the erasure has been made or appears to have been made after the execution of the instrument, and is on a part of the note which is material to the
point in dispute. Corcoran v. Doll, 32 Cal. 82.

2. When a printed form of a promissory note is used, and an erasure is
made only as to the printed matter, the presumption is that it was prior to
the execution of the note, and to suit the terms agreed on by the parties. Id.

3. Where a deed is produced in evidence bg a party claiming under it, and
it appears upon its face to have been altere in a particular material to his
interest and to the prejudice of the other party, it is incumbent on him to
establish by satisfactory evidence that the alteration was made by the grantor
or by his authorit , or the deed will be deemed for the pu oses of the action

to read as it did fore the alteration was made. Galla et at. v. J aclcman,
26 Cal. 79.

§4-49; Proof of a judicial record of this State or of the
United States.

A judicial record of this State, or of the United States, may
be proved by the production of the original, or a copy thereof,
certified by the Clerk, or other person having the legal cus-.

tody thereof, under the seal of the Court, to be a true copy of
such record.*
See 6 655.

1. There is no attempt by this section to dispense with the rule that the

best evidence must be resorted to which the nature of the case will admit.
Macy v. Goodwin, 6 Cal. 579.

 

"8'ra'ru'ras or 1867. 103.
An ad concerning euidemx. Passed March 28th, 1858.

1. Whenever the public records. books or papers, in the " custody" of any collector of
customs of the United States, or of the register or receiver of any land oillce of the United
States in this state, or in the oiiice of the surveyor general of the United States for the
State of Oalitornia, or in the omoe and in the custody of the clerk of the circuit or any
District Court of the United States for the state of California, shall be required as evidence
in any Court of this state. copies of such records, books or papers, duly certified by the
proper officer. under his hand and omcial seal. where he has a seal, shall be l'e00lY0d in evidence with the same force and effect as the originals.

8'raru'rr.s or 1857, 817.
An ad concerning csrhfed copies of certain instrwnaats in writing. Passed April 29th, 1857.
1. Copies of all papers late belonging to the United States board of commissioners
for the settlement of rivate lan claims in California, and on me in the office of the surveyor general of the nited States for the state of California, and an so is; of documents

and papers belon ng to said surveyors onice, which copies shall have an duly certified

to be true copies y said surveyor, shall he received and read in evidence in the same manner and with like eirect as the originals

The provisions of this seciion sustained Natoma Water co. v. Olarkin, 14 on. 544.

2. Duly certified copies of deeds regularly recorded. upon the acknowledgment or proof
of execution by the party or pirties thereto, subject, however to all legal exception

thatmightbetakentothe original,itproduced,sha1lbe received in evidenoeinallthe

 
 
  
  
  
   

2. To entitle a book to the character of an oiiicial register, it is not In
sary that it be re uired by an express statute to be kept, nor that the no
of the office sho1%d render the book indi ensable. It is sumcient that it
directed by the proper odicer to be kept. yburg v. Perkins, 6 Cal. 674.

3. In ejectment. laintid‘—-relying upon a Mexican grant and a decree
United States board)of land commissioners-—oii‘ered in evidence a co y of
decree, taken from the office of the United States surveyor general, with
certificate by the surveyor general that “ the fore oing is a correct copy
the decree of confirmation made b said board 0% commissioners in the i
therein mentioned, together with t e indorsements thereon, as the same is
dle in my office,” defendant objecting that the copy was not properly cerdiied.
Held, that the certificate complies sudiciently with the statute, the terms of
which need not be literally pursued. Young v. Emerson, 18 Cal. 416.

4. The book of accounts kept in the oiiice of an alcalde is admissible in
evidence, as the register of the acts of that officer, belonging to the office.
Kg/burg v. Perkins, 6 Cal. 674.

5. The record of a judgment of another State, if certified in conformity
with the Act of Congress, is admissible in evidence in this State. Pa:-he v.
Williams, 7 Cal. 247.

6. The fact that "such omcial record of alcaldes’ grants was not kept by
American alcaldes strictly in accordance with the regulations of the King of
Spain. made in 1789, called the Plan of Pitic, does not make them secon
evidence, for it is either prim evidence, or of no value whatever as evidence. Donner v. Palmer et als., 1 Cal. 500.

7. Whenever Book A of original alcalde’s grants, made b American alcaldes in San Francisco, contains a full cop of the paper elivered to the
grantee, with the genuine signature of the calde appended thereto, it was
03» substantially according to the regulations of the ng of Spain, and is an

cial record and primary evidence. Id.

8. Whenever said Book A does not contain a full co y of the paper delivered to grantee, but a summary of the proceedings s cient to show an application for a grant, and that aagrant was made over the genuine signature of
the alcalde, the entries were so an omcial record and primary evidence of
the grant to which they refer. Id.

9. Alcaldes' grants of lots in pueblos in California, made while the Spanish
or Mexican laws were in force, were required to be entered in a boo to be
kept by the alcaldes for that purpose, and then to be signed and attested by
the proper oilicer. A copy or summary statements of the proceedings, as contained in this book, also signed and attested by the proper officer, was then to
be given to the grantee as evidence of his title. Id.

 

Courts of this state. without any further or otherproof of the execution thereof, in the same
manner and with like eirect as if the originals were produced and proven, rovided it be
shown that the said originals are not un er the control of the party oifering c said copies,

or are lost.
The provisions of this section sustained. Sldnlmr v. Flohr, 13 Cal. 888.

8. Any person wishing. in order to obtain the benent of this Act. to establish the genuineness of any tent for land issued the United states. or by this State, may apply for that
phurpose to t e Drstrict Go rt ofthe udicisl district in which the patented lands, or any part

ereof. are situated. after ving public notice of the time of his making said application, at
least ilve days previous to t e hearing thereof, either by one insertion in a newspaper. where
there is one published in the county wherein the lands or parcels of land in said district may
be situated, or in default thereof. by posting said notice on the court house door of said
county; provided. that notice shall not be required to be given in more than one county ;
upon proof being made that the said notice was duly given. the District Court shall proceed
to inspect the patent. and upon bein satisfied that it is genuine, may endorse thereupon or
annex thereto an order under the of the Court. declaring said patent to be genuine;
and if the Court be not satisfied that the said patent is genuine, then no other [order] shall
be entered or made relative thereto.

4. It shall be the duty of the county recorder of each county in this State to provide 3
Separate book. to be called "The Record of Patents," wherein shall be recorded all patents
of land or parcels of land situatein their county. whether issued b the United states or the
State of California. which maybe oirered for record, authentica as in the foregoing section mentioned ; and a duly certified copy of any patent, recorded as aforesaid. may he
otrered in evidence in any proceeding or action in this state. with the some edect and force
as the original duly exhibited and proven.

10. The record of such grants so kept in this book, became an omcial
rd of the same and primary evidence of facts recited therein. Such
rd is not secondary evidence, subordinate to the certified copy of the same
be 'ven to the grantee, and if any distinction as evidence exists between the
r in this book and the certified co y, the higher decree or rank must be
rded to the record in the book. I

11. To entitle such record of a grant to be received in evidence is not necesto produce or prove the loss of the certified copy of the same given to
e grantee. Id.

§ 450. ‘Proof of the records, etc., of any other State of the
i United States.

The records and judicial proceedings of the Courts of any
other State of the United States may be proved or admitted
in the Courts of this State by the attestation of the Clerk
‘ and the seal of the Court annexed, if there be a seal,
together with a certificate of the Judge Chief Justice or
presiding Magistrate, as the case may be, that the said attestation is in due form.

‘Amended 1854, 95 ; Abb. Forms, 1595, 1599.

1. A record certified in conformity with the four hundred and fiftieth
section of the Practice Act. would be admissible in the Courts of this State.
Parlce v. Williams, 7 Cal. 247.

2. Held, further, that the attachment papers of B. & Co. v. V. & Co. were
admissible in lavor of defendant. See facts. Dexter v. Paugh, 18 Cal. 372.

    
      
   

§ 451. Proof of a judicial record of a foreign country.

A judicial record of a foreign country may be proved bythe production of a copy thereof, certified by the Clerk, with
the seal of the Court annexed, if there be a Clerk and seal ;
or by the legal keeper of the record with the sealof his
oilice annexed, if there be a seal, to be a true copy of such
record : together with a certificate of a Judge of the Court,
that the person making the certificate is the Clerk of the
Court, or the legal keeper of the record, and in either case,
that the signature is genuine, and the certificate in due form ;
and also together With the certificate of the Minister or Ambassador of the United States or of a Consul of the United
States, in such foreign "country, that there is such a Court,
specifying generally the nature of its jurisdiction, and
verifying the signature of the Judge and Clerk, or other
legal keeper of the record.

1. In the United States, certificates of the proof and acknowledgment of
deeds executed in a foreign jurisdiction, are general] received as prima facie
evidence of both the character of the officers  t em and the genuineness

of their signatures. Mott v. Smith, 16 Cal. 5

2. The certificates of a Notary Public or United States Consul, of acknowledgment of a deed, are prima facie evidence of the odicial character of the
person by whom they are given. Id.

3. The general designation, in the fourth section of the Act of April 16th,
1850, as to conve ances of any Notary Public, or any Consul of the United
States, embraces «L otaries and Consuls of every grade, whether principal or
inferior Notary, or Consul General or Vice Consul. Id.

4. Held, further. that the exhibits attached to the answer, consisting of
copies of the pleadings and roceedings in the action in the United States
Circuit Court, needed no fur er veridcation than what arises from the statements in the answer that they are such co ies; that no distinct verincation of
them was requisite; and that, were it o erwise, then the certificate of the
United States Circuit Court Clerk was sumcient. Ely v. Frisbie, 17 Cal. 250.

§ 452. Proof of copy of a judicial record of a foreign country.

A copy of the judicial record of a foreign country shall also
be admissible in evidence upon proof :

1st. That the copy offered has been compared by the witness with the original, and is an exact transcript of the whole
of it;

2d. That such original was in the custody of the Clerk of
the Court, or other legal keeper of the same ; and,

3d. That the copy is duly attested by a seal, which is
proved to be the seal of the Court where the record remains,
if it be the record of a Court; or if there be no such seal,

or if it be not a record of a Court, by the signature of the

legal keeper of the original.
See § 655.

§ 453. Printed copies of statutes, ete., of another State or Government, published by authority, are presumptive evidence of such
laws.

Printed copies in volumes of statutes, code, or other written law, enacted by any other State, or Territory, or foreign
Government, purporting or proved to have been published by
the authority thereof, or proved to be commonly admitted as
evidence of the existing law, in the Courts and judicial tribunals of such State, Territory, or Government, shall be admitted by the Courts and officers of this State, on all occasions, as presumptive evidence of such laws.
See § 655.

§ 454. Impression of a seal of a Court or public ojiee.

A seal of a Court or public office, when required to any
writ or process, or proceeding, or to authenticate a copy of

any record or document, may be impressed with wax, wafer,
or any other substance, and then attached to the writ, process, or proceeding, or to the copy of the record or document,
or it may be impressed on the paper alone.

1. Twli:   of the seal may be made upon paper only. Connelly v.

2. A scrawl with “L. 8." written within it, is sumcient. Hastings v.
Vaughn, 3 Cal. 315.

TITLE XLVIII.

OF THE WRIT OF CEBTIORARI AND OF MANDAMUB.

CHAPTER I.—The writ of certiorari, or review.

Station 455. The writ of eertiorari; denomination of.
456. This writ may be issued by a superior Court to an inferior
tribunal; in what cases.

457. The application shall be made on affidavit with notice. or
-' wi out.

458. The writ to be directed to the inferior tribunal.

459. The contents of the writ.

460. Proceedings in the inferior Court, eto., may be stayed or

not.
461. Service of the writ.
462. The review under the writ; extent of.

463. A defective return of the writ may be perfected. Hearing
and judgment.

464. Copyl oit'c Judgment shall be sent to the inferior tribuna , e .,

465. Judgment roll. Appeals may be taken as in civil actions.
§ 455. The writ of certiorari, the writ of review.

The writ of certiorari may be denominated the writ of
review. '

§ 456. This writ will be issued by a superior Court to an inferior tribunal ; in what cases.

This writ may be granted on application by any Court of
this State, except a Justice’s, Recorder’s, or Mayor’s Court;
the writ shall be granted in all cases when an inferior tribunal, board, or officer, exercising judicial functions, has exceeded the jurisdiction of such tribunal, board, or officer; and
there is no appeal, nor, in the judgment of the Court, any

plain, speedy, and adequate remedy.
Bee § 653.

It

J

1. a When the writ will lie.—Where error has occurred in proceedings,
either civil or criminal, which cannot be reached by a writ of error, the writ
of certiorari is a roper remedy to correct such error, unless some other statutory remedy has een given. The Peo le v. Turner. 1 Cal. 152.

2. Where an order was made by the istrict Court of the Eighth Judicial
District, whereby A. was ordered to be imprisoned forty-eight hours, and
fined five hundred dollars, for contem t of Court, without setting forth any of
the facts whereon the order was has : Held, that a certiorari should issue to
remove the proceedings for review into this Court ; and, held, further, that a
mandamus was nota proper remedy in such a case. Id.

3. An order fining and imprisomng for contempt, which does not 
on its face wherein the contempt consisted, will be reversed on cerlioran.
parie Field, lCal. 187.

4. C. obtained a judgment against H., in the County Court of Yolo county,
for the restitution of certain lands; defendant appealed to the District Court,
where the judgment was amrmed; and the defendant a 'n appealed to the
Supreme Court, where both judgments were reversed, an the cause remanded
to the District Court for further proceedings. After the remittitur was nled
in the District Court, the County Court issued a mandamus commanding the
clerk to issue a writ of restitution, pursuant to the original judgment in that
Court; and on the petition of H._. a certiorari was issued, to remove the proceedings to the Supreme Court. Held, on motion to dismiss the writ, that the
writ of certiorari was the proper remedy; that the judgment to be enforced
having been reversed by the Supreme Court, the Coun Court exceeded its
jurisdiction in issuing the mandamus. Clary v. Hoagla , 5 Cal. 476.

5. A pug against whom a judgment is sought to be enforced, although not
a p to e mandamus, may apply for a writ of certiorari. Id.

6. he power to grant a ferry hcense is not judicial, and its exercise properliv belongs to the supervisors. Chard v. Harrison, 7 Cal: 113.

. The exercise of such a power by a County Judge is, thereforee, an excess
of jurisdiction, which can be pro rly reviewed on certiorari. Id.

8. The decision of the board 0 delegates, in the case of contested election
for chief engineer, is a judicial decision, and subject to review by the Courts,
on certiorarz. The extent of such review is simpl to in uire whether the
board has exceeded its jurisdiction. W'h.itney v. card 8. F. Fire

D rtment, 14 Cal. 479.
. As to how far and when the proceedings of such boards are judicial, and

hence reviewable on certiorari, and how far and when legislative, and hence
not so to be reviewed, discussed. Robinson v. Board of Supervisors of Sacramento, 16 Cal. 208.

10. A writ of cerliorari will lie in the District Court, to review the action of
the board of supervisors; otherwise, their action would be beyond control.
People v. Supervisors, 8 Cal. 59.

ll. Liability to suit has no necessary connection with ability to sue.
Boards of supervisors and bodies like them, without any legislative provision
—by general law—are subject, with certain exceptions, to mandamus, to enforce the erformance of the duties devolved upon them, and to the writ of
oertiorari or the review of their acts when partaking of a judicial character,
and in other ways are within the control of judicial proceedings. Hastings v.
Gilly and County of San Francisco, 18 Cal. 49.

2. A complaint which avers that plaintifff is the owner of a ferry franchise
over a stream, and that the board of supervisors have granted hcense to
another person to establish a ferry within less than one mile of plainti3"s
ferry, without havin p)ublished the notice required by statute; and that such
ferry is not requir y public convenience, nor rendered necessary by the
intervention of any creek or ravine; and that the reason given by the board
in their minutes for grantin the license was, that no legal excuse was shown
why it shouid not be grants , states sumcient facts to authorize the issuance
(gig 1(1) virit of certiorari. Murray v. Board of Supervisors of Mariposa County,

a . 492.

13. The main point in the case is involved in the second ob ection, namely:

that from the record certined to the Court it did not appear t the board of

supervisors exceeded their jurisdiction in accepting the resignation of the

titioner, and in the rejecting of his bond filed with the board. Held, that a
Eiard of supervisors has no jurisdiction to reject an omcial bond, exce t for
the reasons that it is not in form and substance in compliance with e requirements of the statute, or is not executed by sudicient and responsible
sureties; and the Supreme Court will review on cerliorari and amend an order
of a board rejecti a bond for any other than one or more of said reasons.
Jliller v. Board of u ' s of Sacramento County, 25 Cal. 94.

14. Where plaintié seeks to enjoin a sale of personal property under an
execution issued upon a judgment recovered against him in a ustice’s Court
on the ground that the summons was never served on him, and thereforee that
the Justice never acquired jurisdiction of his person: Held, that if the time
for appeal has elapsed he can ap l to the County Court for a writ of certiorari, and thus review the action oiptie Justice in rendering the judgment so
I8:-I a7s8 the question of jurisdiction is concerned. Comstoclc v. Clemens, 19

15. When the writ will not 1ie.—A certiorari to the Board of Sn ervisors, on the ound of want of jurisdiction, is premature, if taken be ore
the action of e Board. W'iLson v. Supervisors, 3 Cal. 386.

16. A writ of certiorari is not the pro er remedy, where there has been no
excess of jurisdiction. Ouller v. Starlc, Cal. 244.

17. In this case, the application for cerliorari showing on its face that the
grty had an adequate legal remedy by aPP‘3&1. the writ was denied. Clary v.

oagland, 13 Cal. 173.
281(8;.aLCelr1ti5orari does not lie where there is an appeal. People v. Shephard,

19. The supreme court may grant the writ.—This Court is strictly a
Court of ap llate jurisdiction ; but it mag; exercise its appellate jurisdiction
by means 0 the process of mandamus. . also. it seems, by means of the
writ of habeas corgms, certiorari, supersedeas, prohibition, etc. The People v.
Turner. 1 Cal. 14 .

20. The Supreme Court may issue a writ of cerliorari to a District Court for
the urpose of reviewing summary proceedings, in a case where no appeal
we d lie. Id. 152.

21. If inferior Courts exceed their powers, the Supreme Court, in every
ga3ea1wi2tl;i:i'3n its reach, would not fail to interfere by  Ex parte Hanson,

22. The amended Constitution confers upon the Supreme Court original
jurisdiction to issue writs of certiorari. Miller v. Board of Supervisors of Sacramento County, 25 Cal. 95.

23. A writ of certiorari will not be issued by the Supreme Court where the
act would be the exercise of appellate power, provided the review might have
been had by an ap eal, althou h the right of appeal is gone by the la se of
the time within w "ch it_was, y statute, required to be taken. Milli v.
Huber, 21 Cal. 166.

24. H., against whom a judgment had been rendered in the District Court.
after the lapse of more than one year thereafter, applied to the Supreme Court
for a writ of certiorari to the District Court, by which the judgment might be
brought up for review, allegin that the Court below had exceeded its jurisdiction, by rendering the juément against him without having obtained
jurisdiction of his person. eld, that the case was not one in which the
Court had power to issue the writ. Id.

25. The jurisdiction of the Supreme Court to review the proceedings of inferior Courts, bosrds and omccrs, upon certiorari, is limited to cases where there
has been an excess of jurisdiction. People v. Johnson, 30 Cal. 98.

26. District courts may grant the writ.—An appeal does not lie from the
judgment of a J ustice’s to the District Court. District Courts cannot entertain
jurisdiction of such cases by certiorari, where the error complained of might be
corrected by an appeal to the County Court. Gray et al. v. Schupp, 4 Cal. 185.

27. It is not necessary to the exercise of the power to review, that the Court
issuing the writ of cerliorari should possess appellate jurisdiction; and the writ

may issue from a District Court to a County Judge. Chard v. Harrison, 7 Cal.
113 ' People v. Board of Supervisors, 8 Cal. 58.

25. District Jud es have power to issue writs of certiorari, and to hear them
on their return at hambers. People v. Supervisors Marin 00., 10 Cal. 346.

29. The District Courts have power to grant writs of certiorari to review the
action of a Board of Supervisors in nting a ferry license. Murray v. Board
of Supervisors of Mariposa 00., 23 al. 492.

30. What may be rev'iawed.—'l‘he review b ‘the Courts extends to every
issue of law and fact involved in the question 0 jurisdiction, and not only the

record below, but the evidence itself, when necessa to determine a jar edictiotgl fact, must be returned. Wliitney v. Board of S. F. Fine Dep’t,
14 al. 479.

31. The review never extends to the merits ; upon this the action of the inforior tribunal is final and conclusive. Id.

32. We think it is well settled that at common law certiorari tries nothing but
the jurisdiction, and, incidentally, the regularity of the proceedings upon which
the jurisdiction depends. Id. 500. ’

33. Whether the decision of the inferior Court, establishing the existence of a
fact essential to the exercise of its jurisdiction, can be attacked in a collateral
proceeding, is a question which does not arise in the case. and in relation to
which we express no opinion. We have held such a decision is subject to review u on certiorari. Lowe v. Alcaaander, 15 Cal. 300.

34. cept in cases of fraud. a claim against a county allowed by such board

cannot be collaterally impeached; but the order, allowing the claim, must be re—
viewed by  Bswwm, J. El Dorado Co v. Elstner, 18 Cal. 144.

35. General1y.—To justify the issuing of a writ of certiorari from the District
Court to review proceedings in an action which has passed to judgment in a
County Court, on the ground that the latter Court had no jurisdiction b reason of the excess of the amount in controversy, the affidavits by the app icant
must state the amount of the judgment rendered. The question of jurisdiction
depends upon the amount of the judgment, and not the amount prayed for in
the com laint. Wratten v. Wilson, 22 Cal. 465.

36. T e proceeding of the taxpayer in the District Court, contemplated by
this statute, is a proceeding by oertiorari, in the form and according to the
course of that kind of suit, and the issuance of that writ is necessary to stay
the proceedings beyond the ten days, though probably no formal order of
injunction is necessary. 0'. N. Railroad Company v. Butte County, 18 Cal. 671.

§ 457. The application shall be made on ajidavit with notice,
or without.

The application shall be made on aiiidavit by the party
beneficially interested, and the Court may require a notice of
the application to be given to the adverse party, or may
grant an order to show cause why it should not be allowed, or

may grant the writ without notice.
Abb. Forms, 2032, 2083, 2042, and 2043.

§ 458. The writ to be directed to the inferior tribunal, etc.

The writ may be directed to the inferior tribunal, board or

officer, or to any other person having the custody of the record
or proceedings to be certified. When directed to a tribunal. the

Clerk, if there be one, shall return the writ with the transcript required.

1. A clerk of the board of equalization of taxes, in answer to a writ of certionari requiring the board to certify the proceedings had before them in relation to equalizing the value of property, can return only a transcript of such
documents, orders, etc., as remain of record or on file in his office. It is not
made the clerk's duty to take down or preserve the evidence. Central P. R.
R. Co. v. Placer County,_32 Cal. 582.

2. If the board for the equalization of taxes do not take down and preserve
the evidence in the matter of equalization of a tax, and have the same filed
with their clerk, the evidence cannot be certified by the clerk in his return to
a writ of certiorari. Id.

§ 459. The contents of the writ.

The writ of review shall command the party to whom it is
directed to certify fully to the Court issuing the writ, at a
specified time and place, and annex to the writ a transcript
of the record and proceedings, (describing or referring to
them, with convenient certainty), that the same may be re»
viewed by the Court ; and requiring the party in the meantime to desist from further proceedings in the matter to be

reviewed.
Bancroft’s Forms, 520; Abb. Forms, 2034, 2041.

§ 460. Proceedings in the inferior Court may be stayed, or not.

If a stay of proceedings‘be not intended, the words requiring the stay shall be omitted from the writ; these words
may be inserted or omitted in the sound discretion of the
Court; but if omitted, the power of the inferior Court or
officer shall not be suspended, nor the proceedings stayed.

§ 461. Service of the writ.

The writ shall be served in the same manner as a summons
in civil action, except when otherwise expressiy directed
by the Court.

462. The review under the writ; extent of.

The review upon this writ shall not be extended further
than to determine whether the inferior tribunal, board, or
officer has regularly pursued the authority of such tribunal,

board, or oliicer.

1. The Su reme Court cannot, on certiorari, review mere errors of law of
the Count curt, in cases where it has jurisdiction, even though there is no

appeal. eople v. Barney, 29 Cal. 459.
. The Su reme Court, on certiorari, will only inquire whether the inferior
Court exce ed its jurisdiction. People v. Dwinelte, 29 Cal. 632.

3. The form and manner of proceeding before the board of del ates in
deciding upon a contested election, is for the board to determine, an Courts
will not undertake to say what is, or not, sumcient for the board to proceed

upon in the nrst instance. It is requisite sim ly that at some point of the
proceedings, it appear that the case is within e terms of the law. People

cg re1.7Whitney v. Board of Delegates of the San Francisco Fire Department, 14
al. 4 9.

4. The decision of the board of delegates in the case of a contested election for chief engineer is a judicial decision, and subject to review by the
Courts on eertiorari. The extent of such review is simply to inquire whether
the board has exceeded its jurisdiction. Id.

5. At common law the writ of certiorari tries nothing but the jurisdiction,
and incidentally the regularity of the proceedings upon which the jurisdiction
depends. The review never extends to the merits; upon these the action of
the inferior tribunal is final and conclusive. Id.

6. Our statute is amrmatory of the common law. People ea: rel. Church v.
Hester (6 Cal. 679), overruled in this respect. Id.

7. The review by the Courts extends to every issue of law and fact involved
in the question of jurisdiction, and not only the record below, but evidence
itself, when necessary to determine a jurisdictional fact, must be returned. Id.

§ 463. A defective return of the writ may be perfected. Hearing and judgment.

If the return of the writ be defective, the Court may order
a further return to be made. When a full return has been

made, the Court shall proceed to hear the parties, or such of
them as may attend for that purpose,and may thereupon give
judgment, either affirming, or annulling, or modifying the

proceedings below.

Abb. Forms, 203? and 2045.

1. When a case is brought from an inferior Court or tribunal to the Supreme
Court by certiorari, if all the facts upon which the Court below acted are not
in the record, the Supreme Court may require the Court below to certify such
facts. Blair v. Hamilton, 32 Cal. 49.

2. The return of a finding of facts made by a County Judge to writ of certiorari constitutes a part of the record within the meaning of the four hundred
and sixty-third section of the Practice Act, though the finding is not made
until the next term after the testimony is taken, and the order or judgment
based on it is made. Id.

3. A clerk of the board for the equalization of taxes, in answerto a writ of
certiorari requiring the board to certify the proceedings had before them in
relation to equalizing the value of property, can return only a transcript of
such documents, orders, etc.. as remain of record or on file In his odice. 0.
P. R. R. Co. v. Placer 00., 32 Cal. 582. _

4. If the board for the equalization of taxes do not take down and preserve the evidence in a matter of equalization of a tax, and have the same
filed with the clerk, the evidence cannot be certified by the clerk in his return
to a writ of certiorari. Id.

§ 464. Copy of judgment shall be sent to the inferior tribunal.

A copy of the judgment, signed by the Clerk, shall be
transmitted to the inferior tribunal, board, or officer, having
the custody of the record or proceeding certified up.

§465. Judgment roll. Appeals may be taken as in civil
actions.

A copy of the judgment, signed by the Clerk, entered
upon, or attached to, the Writ and return, shall constitute the

judgment roll. If the proceeding be had in any other than
the Supreme Court, an appeal may be taken from the judgment in the same manner, and upon the same terms, as from

a judgment in a civil action.
For_costs on writ of review, see § 508.

TITLE XLIX.

CHAPTER II.—The writ of mandate, or mandamus.

Sacnox 466. The writ of mandamus. denomination of.

467. The writ may be issued by a superior Court to an inferior
tribunal, etc., in what cases.

468. The writ shall issue on affidavit, where there is no adequate remedy in the ordinary course of law.

469. Shall] be either alternative or peremptory. Substance of
t e writ.

470. If the application be without notice, the alternative writ
shall 188118; otherwise, the peremptory. Notice and
default.

471. The adverse party may answer under oath.

472. If an essential question of fact is raised, the Court may
order a jury trial.

473. This applipant may demur to the answer or countervail it

y me .

474. Either? party may move for a new trial. Two verdicts for
the same party shall be conclusive.

475. The Clerk shall transmit the verdict to the Court where
the motion is pending, after which the hearing shall be
had on motion. ,

476. If no answer be made, or if the answer raise no material
issue of fact, the heari shall be before the Court.

477. If the applicant succeedflghe may have damages, costs,
and a peremptory mandate.

478. Service of the writ.

479. Penalty for disobedience to the writ of mandate.

§ 466. The writ of mandamus, denomination of.

The writ of mandamus may be denominated the writ of
mandate.

§ 467. The writ  be issued by a Superior Court to an inferior tribunal; in what cases.

It may be issued by any Court in this State, except a Justice’s, Recorder's, or Mayor’s Court, to any inferior tribunal,

corporation, board, or person, to compel the performance of
an act which the law specially enjoins, as a duty resulting
from an office, trust, or station; or to compel the admission of
a party to the use and enjoyment of a right or oilice to which
he is entitled, and from which he is unlawfully precluded by.

such inferior tribunal, corporation, board, or person.

1. The rules of the Civil Practice Act are applicable to pleadings and
ceedings in mandamus. People v. Supervisors of San Francisco, 27 Cal.

2. When the writ will lie.—The Court will not undertake in the mat
instance to supervise, direct, or control the acts or omissions of a mere ministerial officer; but when the efect of the a plication is to bring under review
the decision of a District Court, the ap te jurisdiction given by the constitution attaches, and ma be exercised” by means of the writ of mandamus.
The People v. Turner, 1 C . 143.

3. When an order had been made by the District Court of the ' hth Judicial District, expelling certain attorneys from the bar, on the un that they
had set at denance the authority of the Court, and had vilin and denounced
its proceedings, but no notice had been given them of the charges against
them, and no opportunity aforded to make their defense: Held, that a writ
should issue commanding the District Court to vacate the order, and restore
the parties. Id.

4. The writ of mandamus is a pro er remedy to compel the District Court
to restore an attorney whose name been stricken from the rolls by the
order of such Court. Id.

5. A mandamus may issue to compel the Comptroller of State to account to
a member of the Legislature for the daily compensation fixed by law. Fowler
v. Pierce, 2 Cal. 165; Mc0auley v. Brooks, 16 Cal. 11.

6. A mandamus lies to compel the Judge of a District Court to enter ju ment on the report of a referee. In this case there was no remedy by ap .
Russell v. Elliott, 2 Cal. 245.

7. Mandamus will lie to compel the Clerk of the Common Council of San
Francisco to make publication of certain notices which it is his duty to publish. Washington et al. v. Page, 4 Cal. 388.

8. Mandamus may be resorted to, to compel an officer to do an act which
is sought to be enforced, in all cases where the officer has no discretion, and
where e is under obligation to do the specific act. and there is no adequate
remedy in the ordinary course of law. The People ea: rel. McDougall v. Bell,
4 Cal. 176; Flayley v. Hubbard, 22 Cal. 36.

9. Where the District Court granted an injunction, from the order granting which the defendant appealed and then dxsobeyed the injunction, whereupon plaintid asked for an attachment for contempt, which was refused, on
the ground that the a peal su erseded the injunction: Held, that a mandamus
may issue to compel t e Dist ctJudge to issue the attachment, the plaintifffs
rgmedy, by appeal, being inadequate. Merced Mining Co. v. Fremont, 7 Cal.
1 O.

10. A mandamus will issue from a superior to an inferior Court, to compel
the issuance of an attachment for contempt, where the proceeding is, in substance, aprivate right, though in form a case of contempt. Id.

11. The writ of mandamus can only be issued to compel the performance of
an act or duty clearly enjoined by law, and in a case where the has no

)ther lain, speedy and adequate remedy. Draper v. Noleware, C . 278.

12. ere supervisors, in the exercise of their discretion, determined after

earing the testimony that a ferry had not been properly kept. and thereforee

canted it to another, there is no authority to interfere with their determina)n; but when they act under mistake of law, and award the license to

other, supposing that he has succeeded to the rights of the owner of the

nchise, the error may be corrected b mandamus or any other pro er rodlng. Thomasv. Armst:-ong,7 Cal. ; Fall v. Paine, 23 Cal. 302; 21 gal ‘

13. Where, pending a motion for a new trial in the District Court, the defendants violate an injunction previously issued by said District Court, this
Court will issue a mandamus against the Judge of such District Court,
E0a10021§pe1 him to issue his attac ment for contempt. Ortman v. Dixon, 9

14. The Supreme Court has the right to compel inferior tribunals to proceed
to hear and determine causes of which they re use to take cognizance, and this
_by virtue of its appellate powers, and its authority to issue process necessary
to give them erect. Purcell v. McKunc, 14 Cal. 2531.

15. A mandamus may issue to compel a Judge to settle a hill of exceptions
nrst. and then to sign it. The People v. Lee, 14 Cal. 612. '

16. The State prison contract between the State and Estill remaining obligatory, not qualilied by any legislation. it was the duty of the contioller,
u n demand of relators—assignees of Estill—to have issued warrants upon

e treasurer for the sums claimed under the contract; and the performance
of this can be enforced by mandamus. McC’auley v. Brooks, 16 Cal. 11.

17. Belator conve ed to Y. one-third of certain real estate, in consideration
that Y. should atten to a suit nding in the name of relator for the recovery
of the paogxarty. Y. employ an attorney to conduct the suit, the attorney
of plain ' being discharged. Relator moved the Court below to substitute
another attorney in place of the one employed by Y.; the Court refused to
grant the motion, the only reason urged for the substitution being that Y. had
neglected to prosecute the suit, and it not being shown that the agreement
between him and relator had been canceled by the parties. Relator applies to
this Court for mandamus. Held, that the writ lies; that the agreement
between relator and Y. does not exclude the former from the right to prosecute the suit, and employ such attorney as he chooses; that the exercise of
this right will not afect any right Y. may have in the roperty or suit; that he
may intervene if a proper case be made, or prosecute is rights independentl
or wait until a recovery, and then claim his rights under the contract wi
relator. Downer v. Norton, 16 Cal. 436. 18. The “ Spring Valley Water Works” petitioned the County Judge of
San Mateo County, under the act of 1858 ( tatutes 1858, § 218), to appoint
commissioners to appraise the value of certain lands “ r uired for the purposes of the company,” and the Judge, on inspection of e article of incorspration, held that the company was not a corporation, because the articles

'd not show where the principal place of business of the company is to he
located—the articles stating simply that San Francisco was the ace of business—and dismissed the application, and all proceedings based t ereon. The
coinpanyappl to the Supreme Court for a certioran. Held, that the writ
does not lie; that the dismissal of the petition for the cause assigned is not an
excess of jurisdiction under the act of 1858, and that mandamus from the
 Court is the proper remedy. Es: parle Spring Valley Water Worlcs, 17

. 1 .

19. To authorize a mandamus it must appear not only that the performance
of the act to enforce which the writ is asked is a du resulting from the office,
trust, or station of the party to whom the writ is to directed, but that the
gerformance has been requested and refused. People v. Romero, 18 Cal. 89;

randall v. Amador County, 20 Cal. 72.

20. A writ of mandate will be granted to compel an assessor to assess for
taxation roperty liable to be taxed, and which he neglects and refuses to
assess. lev. Shearer, 30 Cal. 645. _

21. An o 1- made in an action pending in the District Court, staying all
proceedings therein until the further direction of the Court, is not an appealable order. The remedy of a party prejudiced thereby is by application for
amandamus to compel the Court to proceed. Rhodes v. Craig, 21 Cal. 419.

22. The board of supervisors act ministerially in the issuance of bonds
under this act, and mandamus lies if they improperly refuse. C’. N. Railroad
Company v. Butte 00., 18 Cal. 671. _

23. A writ of mandate will be granted to compel a subordinate tribunal to
perform a duty enjoined by law, and which it refuses  p_ei-form 3 ‘but when
the act to be done is judicial or discretionary, the writ will not direct what

decision shall be made, nor will it be granted after the inferior tribunal has
acted £05 atlhei purpose of reviewing the legality of its decision. People v. Seaslon, 2 . .

24. When the writ will not lie.——Where an order was made by the District Court of the Eighth Judicial District, whereby A. was ordered to be imrisoned forty-eight hours, and lined five hundred dollars for contempt of
ourt, without setting forth any of the facts whereon the order was :
Held, that a certiorari should issue to remove the proceedings for review into
this Court; and Held, further, that a mandamus was not a proper remedy in
such a case. The People v. Turner, 1 Cal. 152.
25. A mandamus is not the roper remedy when an inferior Court refuses to

enter a judgment for costs. he arty complaining may appeal, br bring his

action for the costs. Peralla v. dams, 2 Cal. 594.

26. A mandamus will not lie where there is any other specific,  and
adequate remedy. The People v. Olds, 3 Cal. 173; Bigelow v. Grove, C . 133.

2 . Mandamus will not issue to compel any person, inferior odicer, Court
or corporation, to act in any rticular manner, when such gberson, officer,
§3<é1r‘1it<i1%7c:orporationis invested:rith discretionary power. He ougall v. Bell,

28. Mandamus does not lie to compel the supervisors of a county to order a

ecial election to fill vacancies in the office of assessor and sheriff. The

le v. Supervisors of Santa Barbara Count , 14 Cal. 102.

2 . A mandamus will not lie to compel a s eritf to make a deed of land to a
purchaser at execution sale, who refuses to pay the purchase money, on the
ground that he is entitled to it as oldest judgment and execution creditor;
es ecially when there is an unsettled contest as to the priority of his lien.

illiams v. Smith, 6 Cal. 91.

30. A mandamus to a board of supervisors to issue a warrant for a specified
sum is irregular; it should direct them to audit the account, and issue warrants accordingly. Tuolumne 00. v. Stanislaus Co. , 6 Cal. 440.

31. A mandamus will not issue to compel the Court below to enter a decree
upon the re rt of a referee; the remedy is by appeal. Ludlum v. Fourth Distrtct Court, Cal. 12.

32. Where an injunction, granted on an ex partzatpplication, was modined
on motion of defendant, without notice to plain ' , on defendant's gi '
bond: Held, that subsequent acts of defendant, in violation of the o ' '
injunction, were not in contempt. The remed of the laintid‘, if there was
error in the order modif ' g the injunction, is y a pea ; but he cannot have
a mandamus to compel t e issuance of attachment or contempt. Fremont v.
Merced Mining 00., 9 Cal. 18.

33. A mandamus will not lie against the clerk of the District Court, to compel him to issue execution on a money judgment, rendered in the Court of
which he is clerk. Goodwin v. Glazer, 10 Cal. 333.

34. When the board of supervisors of a county have canvassed the remru of
an election, and, in the exercise of their discretion, declared the result of an
election adversely to a party claiming to have been elected, a mandamus will
not lie, upon the application of such arty, to compel the board to issue to him
8 cetétigcate of election. Magee v. card of Supervisors of Calaveras 00., 10

a . .

35. A mandamus will not lie against a County Treasurer to compel him to

pay interest due on county bonds. People ea: rel. Ihllant d: Wilde v. Fogg,
rer, 11 Cal. 351.

36. Mandamus does not lie to compel the su ervisors of a county to order a
special election to fill vacancies in the odlces o assessor and sheriff. Paclcard
v. Board of Supervisors of Santa Barbara 00., 14 Cal. 102.

37. Where the Judge below requires a statement in a chaucery case, and the
attorney does not object, but fails to furnish it, and in consequence thereof, the
Court. on motion of laintids for judgment on the pleadings and verdict, refuses
to proceed until such statement is furnished, mandamus will not lie. Purcell v.
McKune, 14 Cal. 230.

38. In forcible entry and detainer tried in the County Court on appeal from
a J ustice’s Court, plaintifff having obtained a verdict for one hundred and ilfty

dollars damages, moved that they be trebled. Motion denied, and judgment
entered for one hundred and fifty dollars, with restitution of the remises.
Plaintiff applies to the Supreme Court for mandamus to compel the ‘ourt below to render judgment for treble damages. Held, that the application must be
denied. as plaintifff has an adequate remedy by appeal ; pending which, plaintifff
can enforce so much of the judgment as awards restitution. The judgment
can be corrected in this Court, if proper, by trebling the damages. Early v.
lfaimim. 15 Cal. 149.

39. Where the law, creating the county of Fresno, provided that the Count
Judge to be elected “ shall receive for his service such sum annually, as aha l
be determined by the board of supervisors, not to exceed $3,000, to be paid,”
etc. : Held, that the Legislature did not by this clause [ix the salary of the Judge ;
and that mandamus for five hundred dollars—the difference between the $3,000
and the $2,500 fixed by the board some weeks after relator's election, as the
annual compensation of the Judge—does not lie. Hart v. Johnson, 17 Cal. 305.

40. Mandamus is not the proper remedy when a District Court refuses to
transfer an indictment for murder pending therein to another District Court
for trial—the Legislature having passed a s ecial act directing said Court to
transfer said indictment. Smith v. Judge oft Twelfth District. 17 Cal. 547.

41. Mandamus will not lie to compel a Court to proceed with the trial of an
action after an order has been made changing the place of trial. The remedy,
if an injury is sustained, is by an appeal from the final judgment. People v.
Barton, 24 Cal. 78.

42. Mandamus is not the groper remedy for the enforcement of a claim
against a county, which has een resented to the board of su rvisors of
the county, and by them rejected. 11 such cases, the statute an orizing the
party to sue the county, has given him a plain, speedy and adequate remedy
at law. The writ of mandamus belongs only to such as have legal rights to
enforce and find themselves without an appropriate legal remedy. Umndall
v. Amador County, 20 Cal. 72.

43. A writ of mandate will not be issued by the Supreme Court to a County
Judge, commanding him to recall an order made alter final judgment, from
which order an appeal could have been taken. P le v. Moore, 29 Cal. 427.

44. Mandamus does not lie to compel an inferior tri unal to act in a particular manner in a matter respecting which it is invested with discretionary

wet. The People eazrel. Ha ley v. Hubbard, 22 Cal. 34. See People v. Weston,
‘ 8 Cal. 640, and authorities ere cited.

45. The action of a J ustice’s Court in granting or refusinga change of venue,
cannot be reviewed in an application for a mandamus. By this writ, the
Justice may, in case of his refusal, be compelled to act, but his erroneous
action cannot be thus corrected. The remedy is b a peal. Id.

46. The constitutionality of the drst section of t e w of 1861, concerning
Intelligence Oilices in San Francisco, cannot be tested in a proceeding by
mandamus against the board of supervisors to compel an order by them for
the issuance of a license to a person applying therefore under said act. Hall
v. Supervisors of San Francisco, 20 Cal. 591.

47. if the planntif in an action moves for a judgment of dismissal at his
costs, and the motion is resisted by the defendant, and denied by the Court,
a writ of mandate will not be issued commanding the judge to enter a judgment of dismissal. People v. Pratt, 28 Cal. 166.

48. In refusing to enter a judgment of dismissal in an action on plaintiffs
motion, the Judge acts judicially, and a mandamus does not lie to compel him
to reverse his decision and render a diderent one. Id.

49. Where the act to be done is judicial and discretionary, a writ of mandate cannot direct what judgment shall be rendered, nor can it be granted
after an inferior tribunal has acted for the purpose of reviewing its decision.
Id. ‘

60. If, in acting judicially, the Court commits an error, the remedy is by
appeal, and not by mandamus. Id.

1. In an application for mandamus to compel a sherif to remove from possession of the premises under a writ of restitution, an occupant who was not
a party to the action, it must be shown distinctly by the affidavits that his

'onwasacquired under the parties or su uent to thefilingof a
E pendens. If these matters are left in doubt, the app ‘cation will be denied.
Fogart v. Sparlos, 22 Cal. 143.
52. judgment rendered by a Court in a case where it had jurisdiction will
rziptcbci distlurbed by a writ of mandate, however erroneous. Cariaga v. Dryden,
a . 30 .
53. If a County Judge rendered an erroneous judgment in amatter where he
possesses jurisdiction, a writ of mandate will not be awarded to compel him to
render a dilferent judgment. Id., 30 Cal. 244.

54. County oourt.—-Proceedings for a mandamus to compel the execution
of a sheriff" s deed to a redemptioner, after sixty days from the redemption,
under section two hundred and thirty—two of the Practice Act, can be commenced in the county where the relator resides; the provision of the statute
that actions against a public olllcer for acts done by him in virtue of his office,
shall be tried in the county where the cause or some part thereof arose, applies
only to amrmative acts of the olllcer, by which, in the execution of process, or
otherwise. he interferes with the rights or (proper of these persons, and not
to more omissions or neglect of olllcial uty. Milton v. Richards, 9 Cal.
365.

55. If a County Judge refuses to appoint commissioners to appraise land in
a proceeding to condemn the same, a writ of mandate will be issued compelling
him to do so. Lake Merced Water Co. v. Comics, 31 Cal. 215.

56. If notice of appeal is given from an order of a Justice of the Peace,
directing stolen property to be delivered to the alleged owner, the County
Court has no jurisdiction to compel, by writ of mandate, the Justice of the
Peace to send up the ap l papers. People v. Holloway, 26 Cal. 651.

57. In such cases the unty Court can only inquire by the intervention of
a Grand Jury, whether a pub c offense has been committed in the county. Id.

58. District court. —The fourth section of the sixth article of the Constitution of the State, as amended in 1863, confers upon the District Courts original
jurisdiction to issue writs of mandamus, certiorari, prohibition and habeas

Perry v. Ames, 26 Cal. 381. Allirmed in (Jourtioright v. B. Rd: A. IV.
4!: . 00., 30 Cal. 583.

59. District Courts have jurisdiction to issue writs of mandate regardlus
of the amount involved in the action. Ghriaga v. Dryden, 30 Cal. 244.

60. The Supreme Court can issue a mandate in a proper case, in
aid of its appellate jurisdiction, but to do so it must have such jurisdiction in the given case. When the act to be done is judicial in its character,
the writ will not direct in what manner the inferior olllcer shall act, but only
direct him to set. In dismissin an appeal the County Court acts judicially.
People at rel. v. Weston, 28 Cal. 39. [See authorities cited in this case.)

(£061. A Justice of the Supreme Cong has no povger to issue a wrgt of manmus. alternative or perem tory. eople ea: rel. obb v. oard of upervisora
of San Joaquin County, April T. 1865.

62. Under the Constitution as amended, the Supreme Court has original
jurisdiction to issue writs of mandamus, ccrtiorari, prohibition, and habeas
corpus. Tyler v. Houghton, 25‘Cal. 26.

63. To whom the writ will issue.-—Liability to suit has necessary connections with ability to sue. Boards of Sn rvisors and bodies like them,
without any legislative provision—by gene law—are subject, with certain
exceptions, to mandamus to enforce the performance of the duties devolved
u on them, and to the writ of certiorari for the review of their acts when
t&ing of a judicial character, and in other ways are within the contro of
judicial roceedings. Hastings v. C" and County of San Francisco, 18 Cal. 49.

64. andamus will issue to the vernor in certain cases. .llcC’auley v.
Brooks, 16 Cal. 11.

65. Distinction, from political considerations, between the Governor and

the inferior onicers of the Executive Department, as to the issuance of this
writ, stated. Id.

66. A mandamus will issue from a superior to an inferior Court, to compel
the issuance of an attachment for contempt, where the proceeding is, in substance, in. private right, though in form a case of contempt. Merced Mining
.00. v. Fremont, 7 Cal. 130.

67. This Court will not issue a mandamus to the clerks of the District Courts

in the nrst instance. The action, or the refusal to act, of the clerks, in suits
ding in the several Courts of the State, can only be reviewed in this Court
ugh the ruling———in relation to such action or refusal-—of the Courts of

which they are the ministerial odlcers. (Jewell v. Bucloelew, 14 Cal. 640.

68. A writ of mandate will issue to compel a Justice of the Peace to enter
a judgment of discontinuance. Anderson v. Pennie, 32 Cal. 265.

69. If land sold by State officers was the roperty of the State, and all the
acts required by law rior to the issuing o the patent have been duly performed, and the p aser is competent to purchase, a writ of mandate will
be issued to compel the Governor to sign the patent, unless the law has vested
him with discretionary powers in that respect. Middleton v. Low, 30 Cal. 596.

70. When a ministerial duty adecting a private right is specially devolved
on the Governor by law, which the" 'slature might have devolved on any
other State officer, he may be compe to perform the same by a writ of
mandate. Id.

71. The Governor will not be compelled by writ of mandate to sign a patent
for land embraced in a sixteenth or thirty-sixth section which has not been
surveyed by the United States, or which lies within the limits of a Mexican
or Spanish grant. Id. _ ’

72. The board of supervisors of the city and county of San Frmicisw
have authority, and it is their duty to provide for the payment of judgments
recovered against the city of San Francisco. They have no discretion, except
between two courses of procedure. They must either apgropriate for this
purpose money alread in the treasury, or they must raise e money by taxation. People emrel. ranlc v. San Francisco, 21 Cal. 668.

73. G-enea'a1ly.—In an ap lication for a mandamus, the statute doesnot require a replication, except w en, in the discretion of the Court, it is necessary
tocex  or avoid facts set up in the defendant's answer. Fowler v. Peirce,
2 . 1 .

74. The distinction between writs of mandate and quo warranto, as held in
England, is not abolished by the statute of this State, but is fully recognized.
People v. Olds, .3 Cal. 173.

75. Proceedings for amandamus to compel the execution of a sherifs deed
to a redemptioner, can be commenced in the county where the relator resides.
Jlcjlillan v. Richards, 9 Cal. 420.

76. The proceeding does not involve the determination of a right or interest in real estate. The relator claims only an omcial document, the possession of which will enable him to assert any rights he may have acquired.
The awarding of the mandamus cannot determine these ' hts, or in any respect the interest of third parties. McMillan v. Richards, Cal. 365. g

77. A mandamus directing a board of supervisors to proceed and audit
certain accounts of the relator, does not necessarily require the board to allow
the accounts; such board have a discretion in respect to their action in this
regard, though compelledto act on the sub'ect matter of the claim; such writ
does not control or rescribe the mode, or determine theresult of their action.
I; d legeo rel. Gas 0. v. Supervisors of San Francisco, 11 Cal. 42 ; 6 Id. 440;
1 . .

78. Judgment may be ami-med as to the mandamus, and reversed as to the
costs. McDougal v. Roman, 2 Cal. 80.

79. On mandamus by the assignee of a sheriff's certificate of sale to compel
the execution of a deed, the question whether such certificate is not merged
in a deed made to the assignee by the execution debtor after the sale, cannot
be tried. People v. Irwin, 14 Cal. 428.

80. To authorize a mandamus. it must appear not only that the performance of the act to enforce, which the writ is asked, is a duty resulting from
the office, trust or station of the board or party to whom the writ is to be

directed, but that the performance has been requested and refused. Orandall
V. Amador County, 20 Cal. 72.

cute and deliver to a person.  his taxes in the coin therein designated,
areceipt for the same, and the pe ormance of this duty may be enforced by
mandamus. Perry v. Washburn, 20 Cal. 318.

82. If, on an ap ea], the Supreme Court of the United States simply amrm
the judgment of the Circuit Court. the judgment thus amrmed becomes anal,
and the Circuit Court has no jurisdiction on the return of the mandate of the
Sgpreme _Court to render a new judgment. Mulford v. Esludillo, 32 Cal.

1. .

83. On the return of a mandate from the Supreme -'Conrt of the United
States to the Circuit Court, affirming the judgment of the Circuit Court, a new
jugg-ment cannot be rendered by the Circuit Court. Id.

The writ of mandate cannot be abated b another 'action for the same
cause. Calaveras County v. Brock-way, 30 Cal. 25.

85. A mandamus could only compel the board to act, but could not direct
their action; and the rejection of the account is an action u n it, which is all
a mandamus could require, where the compensation claim:-d)i)n the account is
not fixed by law. Prtce v. Sacramento County, 6 Cal. 254.

86. Proceeding by mandamus is the proper remedy to compel Judges to
hold their Courts, and county officers to ‘keep their offices at a county seat.
Oalaveras County v. Broclcway, 30 Cal. 325.

87. Where a public body or officer has been empowered to do an act which
concerns the public interest, the execution of the wer may be enforced by
writ of mandate. Napa Valley R. R. Co. v. Napa(§',<(>)u1uly, 30 Cal. 435.

88. Railroads concern the public interest as matter of legal judgment. and
where the board of en ervisors of a county are empowered to subscribe for
the county to the capi stock, they may be compelled to subscribe by writ of
mandate. Id. .

89. In anapplication for a mandamus to a county treasurer, to pay county
warrants, it is sumcient to ever in the petition that the warrants were drawn
by the county auditor, as it will not be presumed that the auditor has violated
his duty in issuing the warrants: but the county treasurer has a right to show
in defense that the warrants were founded on a demand not legally chargeable
against the county. Connor v. Morris, 23 Cal. 447.

§468. The writ shall issue, on a_.17‘idavz't, where there is no
adequate remedy in the ordinary course of law.

This writ shall be issued in all cases where there is not a
plain, speedy, and adequate remedy, in the ordinary course
of law. It shall be issued upon affidavit, on the application
of the party beneficially interested.

1. A com laint in mandamus, against the Comptroller, is bad if it fails to
allege that ere is “ money not otherwise appropriated b law,” out of which
the compensation in question is to be paid. Redding v. ell, 4 Cal. 333.

2. To supersede the remedy by mandamus, a party must not only have a
specidc adequate legal remedy, but one competent to ahbrd relief upon the
12r'e;ry subject matter of his application. Fremont v. Crippen, 10 Cal. 211; 7 Id.

6.

3. Neither a remedy by criminal prosecution, nor by action on the case for
neglect of duty, will supersede that by mandamus, since it cannot com a
specific act to be done, and is, thereforee, not equally convenient, ben cial,
and edectual. Fremont v. Orippen, 10 Cal. 211.

4. An a plication for the writ of mandate must bejfprosecuted in the name
of the re party in interest, and if the name of the people is used, and the
people have no interest, and the relator alone _is interested, the writ will be

emed. People v. Pacheco, 29 Cal. 210.

5.‘. In an application for a writ of mandate to compel a board of su ' rs
to levy a tax, the coun into whose treasury the money intended to raised
by the tax will go, can the relator. People v. Alameda County, 26 Cal. 611.

§ 469. Shall be either alternative or peremptory. Substance of
the writ.

The writ shall be either alternative or peremptory; the
alternative writ shall state generallylthe allegation against
the party to whom it is directed, and command such party,
immediately after the receipt of the writ, or at some other
specified time, to do the act required to be performed, or to
show cause before the Court, at a specified time and place,
why he has not done so. The peremptory writ shall be in a
similar form, except that the words requiring the party to
show cause why he has not done as commanded shall be
omitted, and a return day shall be inserted.

Bancroft’s Forms, 571-572; Abb. Forms, 2068-2073.
1. Where notice of the motion for a mandamus, and a copy of the apers

on which the motion is founded, have been duly served on the District udge,
this Court may, in its discretion, issue either an alternative, or a peremptory
writ, in the first instance People v. Turner, 1 Cal. 143.

§ 470. If the application be without notice, the alternative writ

shall issue, otherwise the peremptory. Notice and default.

When the application to the Court is made without notice
to the adverse party, and the writ be allowed, the alternative
shall be first issued; but if the application be upon due
notice, and the writ be allowed, the peremptory may be
issued in the first instance. The notice of the application,
when given, shall be at least ten days. The writ shall not be
granted by default. _The case shall be heard by the Court,

whether the adverse party appear or not.
Ahb. Forms, 2067.

§ 471. The adverse party may answer under oath.

On the return of the alternative, or the day on which the
application of the writ is noticed, or such further day as the
Court may allow, the party on whom the writ or notice shall
have been served may show cause by answer under oath,
made in the same manner as an answer to a complaint in a
civil action. ‘

1. In a proceeding against a board of supervisors, in its corporate ca acity,
to procure a writ of mandate, the answer of one, or more than one, of e Supervisors in his or their own name or names, whether as supervisors or otherwise, cannot be regarded as the answer of the board, and, on motion, will be

strigkizu from the files of the Court. People v. Supervisors of San Francisco,
27 a . 665.

2. In such case the answer should be in form—the answer of the board in its
aggregate capacity. Id.

3. In such case. if answer is filed in due form as the answer of the board. the
presumption is that it is the answer of the board ; and the fact that it was sworn
to by one member of the board does not make it his answer. nor is it necessary
that such answer should aver that the board by resolution adopted it. Id.

4. In such case, if two answers filed. each in form of the answer of the board,
the Court may ascertain which is the return of the majority. Id.

5. In proceedin to procure a writ of mandate. a motion of the relator for
judgment on the p eading is equivalent to a demurrer to the answer, on the

round that it does not state facts sumcient to constitute a defense to the action.
bjections to the answer, which are required to be taken by special demurrer,
or by motion to strike out, will be disregarded on such motion. Id.

6. Where a writ of mandamus is asked against a county treasurer, to compel
him to pay a warrant drawn upon him by the auditor, the treasurer may show
in defense that the warrant is founded upon a demand not legally chargeable
against the county, and upon such showing the writ will_ be refused. Keller v.
Hyde, 20 Cal. 594; Cbrmor v. Morris, 23 Cal. 451.

§ 472. If an essential question of fact is raised, the Court
may order a jury trial.
If an answer be made, which raises a question as to a matter

of fact essential to the determination of the motion, and affecting the substantial rights of the parties, and upon the supposed

truth of the allegation of which the application for the writ is
based, the Court, may, in its discretion, order the question to
be tried before a jury, and postpone the argument until such
trial can be had, and the verdict certified to the Court. The
question to be tried shall be distinctly stated in the order for

trial, and the county shall be designated in which the same shall
be had. The order may also direct the jury to assess any

damages which the applicant may have sustained, in case they

find for him. '

1. In an application for a mandamus to compel a District Judge to sign a
bill of exceptions, which the relator alleges he refuses to do, and where the
District Judge, in his answer, avers that he has signed a true bill of exceptions,
and that the one presented by relator is not a true bill. relator is not entitled
to a jury to try the issue, under section four hundred and seventy-two of the

Prgciice Act. People ea: rel. Galvin v. The Judge of the Ylmth Judicial District,

9 a . l9.

, 2. Where an alternative mandamus was issued to a Justice of the Peace to
compel himto send 11 papers on appeal to the County Court, to which he
answered that his fees had not been paid or tendered " prior to the service of
the alternate writz” Held, his answer is no defense to the writ being made
peremptory. as the fees may have been paid since the service of the writ. People exrel. Hamilton v. Harris, 9 Cal. 571.

3. If a question of fact upon issues joined arises in a roceeding by mandamus commenced in the Supreme Court, that Court refer the matter to
a District Court to and determine the special fact in issue, and return the
fact to the Supreme ourt. Calaveras County v. Broclcway, 30 Cal. 325.

§ 473. The applicant may demur to. the answer or cozmtervail
it by proof.

On the trial, the applicant shall not be precluded by the
answer of any valid objection to its suliiciency, and may countervail it by proof either in direct denial or by way of avoidance.

§ 474. Either party may move for a new trial. Two verdicts
for the same party shall be conclusive.

If either party be dissatisfied with the verdict of the jury,
he may move for a new trial upon a statement prepared as
provided in section one hundred and ninety-five. The motion
for a new trial may, upon reasonable notice, be brought on
before the Judge of the Court in which the cause was tried,
either in term or vacation. If a new trial be granted, the
jury shall, within five days thereafter, unless the parties
agree on a longer time, be summoned to try the issue. After

a second verdict in favor of the same party, a new trial shall
not be had.

§ 475. The Clerk shall transmit the verdict to the Court where
the motion is pending, after which the hearing shall be had on
motion.

If no notice for a new trial be given, or if given, be denied,
the Clerk, within five days after the rendition of the verdict
or denial of the motion, shall transmit to the Court in which
the application for the writ is pending, a certified copy of the
verdict attached to the order of trial ; after which either

party may bring on the argument of the application, upon
reasonable notice to the adverse party.

§ 476. If no answer be made, or if the answer raise no mate-.

rial issue of fact, the hearing shall be before the Court.

If no answer be made, the case shall be heard on the papers
of the applicant. If an answer be made which does not raise
a question such as is mentioned in section four hundred and
seventy-two, but only such matters as may be explained or
avoided by a reply, the Court may, in its discretion, grant
time for replying. If the answer, or answer and reply, raise
only questions of law, or put in issue immaterial statements,
not affecting the substantial rights of the parties, the Court

shall proceed to hear, or fix a day for hearing the argument
of the case.

§ 477. If the applicant succeed, he may have damages, costs,
and a peremptory mandate.

If judgment be given for the applicant, he shall recover the
damages which he shall have sustained, as found by the jury,
or as may be determined by the Court, or referees, upon a
reference to be ordered, together with costs; and for such

damages and costs an execution may issue ; and a peremptory

mandate shall also be awarded without delay.

1. If the relator, in proceedings to procure a writ of mandate, proceeds by
petition and notice for a peremptory writ without rocuring an alternative writ,
the Court ma grant any relie consistent with e case made by the petition
and embra within the issue, although it may be only art of that asked in
the prayer of the petition. People v. Supervisors of San Iiliwoncisoo, 27 Cal. 665.

§ 478. Service of the writ.

The writ shall be served in the same manner as a summons
in a civil action, except when otherwise expressly directed by
order of the Court.

§ 479. Penalty for disobedience to the writ of mandate.

When a peremptory mandate has been issued and directed
to any inferior tribunal, corporation, board, or person, if it appear to the Court that any member of such tribunal, corporation, or board, or such person upon whom the writ has been
personally served, has, without j ust excuse, refused or neglected
to obey the same, the Court may, upon motion, impose a line
not exceeding one thousand dollars. In case of persistence in
a refusal of obedience, the Court may order the party to be
imprisoned for a period not exceeding three months, and may
make any orders necessary and proper for the complete enforcement of the writ. If a fine be imposed upon a Judge or oiiieer
who draws a salary from the State or county, a certified copy
of the order shall be forwarded to the Comptroller, or County
Treasurer, as the case may be, and the amount thereof may
be retained from the salary of such Judge or oiiicer. Such
Judge or officer for his willful disobedience shall also be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor in office.

1. The Legislature has declared that an omoer for willful disobedience to
the mandate of the Court, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor in omee. HoCauley v. Brooks, 16 Cal. 56.

TITLE L.*

OF CONTEMPTS AND THEIR PUNISHMENT.

Sncrrox 480. Oontempts, what shall be deemed.

481. A contempt committed in the presence of the Court may
be pumshed eummaril ; when not so committed, an affidavit or statement sh be made.

482. A warrant of attachment to answer may issue, or notice to
show cause.

483. Bail may be given by a person arrested under such warrant.

48-L Sherid shall, upon executing the warrant, arrest and
detain the person until discharged.

485. Bail bond, form and condition of.

486. Oiiice shall return warrant and bail bond, if any.

487. Hearing.

488. Jud ent and penalty if guilty.

489. If e contempt is the omission to perform any act, the
person may be imprisoned until performance.

490. Persions in contempt may also be indicted, if an indictable
o ense.

491. If the party fail to appear, proceedings.

492. Illness sumcient excuse for non-appearance of party
arrested. Coniinements under arrests for contem t.

493. Ju ents and orders in such cases iinal. Extent 0 pun' ent.

§ 480. Contempt, what shall be deemed.

The following acts or omission shall be deemed contempts:
1st. Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior,
towards the Judge whilst holding Court, or engaged in his
udicial duties at chambers, or towards referees or arbitrators whilst sitting on a reference or arbitration, tending to
interrupt the due course of a trial, reference, or arbitration,

or other judicial proceeding;
2d. A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct, or violent

*S'raru'rss or 1862. 115.
Assad forthepuatsluaentof eantesuptsandtrapasses.

are-rnou 1. Every person who shall have been or shall behereafter. dispossessed or
qiected iron. or out of, any piece, parcel. lot, or tract of land. by the Judgment. decree, or
process, of any Court of competent jurisdiction. and who. not having legal right so to do,
shall reenter into, or upon, or take possession of. any such land. or my part thereof. or
induce. or procure, any person not having legal right so to do. or shall aid or abet him
therein, shall be deemed guilty of a contempt of the Court b which such Judgment or
decree was rendered. or from which such process issued. and I be tried and punished
therefore. in the same manner and form as now provided by law, in case of contempt not
committed in presence of the Court or Justice of the Peace.

8:0. 2. Upon a conviction for such contempt. the Court or Justice or the Peace shall immediately issue an alias process. directed to the proper omcor, and requiring him to restore the
party entitled to the possession of such property, under the original Judgment. decree. or
£1-‘geese. to such possession or which he shall have been dispossessed by the wrongful cont or act herein declared to be a contempt.

disturbance in presence of the Court or its immediate vicinity, tending to interrupt the due course of a trial, or other
judicial proceeding;
3d. Disobedience or resistance to any lawful writ, order,
rule, or process, issued by the Court or Judge, at chambers ;
4th. Disobedience of a subpoena duly served, or refusing

to be sworn or answer as a witness ;
5th. Rescuing any person or property in the custody of
any oilicer, by virtue of an order of process of such Court or

Judge at chambers.

1. Contempt is donned by the statute to be the disobedience or resistance of
a lawful order of the Court or Judge; and if a Court having jurisdiction
should issue an erroneous order, a disobedience of it is a contempt. Ea: parts

Cohen et al., 5 Cal. 494.
2. Where an order was made by the District Court of the eighth judicial

district, whereby A. was ordered to be imprisoned forty-eight hours and
fined five hundred dollars for contempt of Court, without setting forth any
of the facts whereon the order was based: Held. that a certiorari should issue
to remove the proceedings for review into this Court; and held, further, that a
mandamus was not a proper remedy in such case. Pegilc v. Turner, 1 Cal. 152.

3. Where an order of the District Court, dning an imprisoning for contempt, does not specify on its face wherein the contempt existed, it will be
reversed on  Ea: parts Field, 1 Cal. 187.

4. It is the right and duty of the Supreme Court, on habcas , to
review the decisions of inferior Courts, in cases of contempt, as we as in
others. Ea: parte Rome, 7 Cal. 181.

5. A commitment for contempt for refusing to obey an unlawful order of
Court, can be reviewed and set aside by a superior Court. Id.

6. In suit for divorce the Court has power to order the husband to pay
money to the wife for her su port during the litigation, and for counsel fees
and other legal expenses; an such order may be enforced b imprisonment
for contempt in case of refusal to pay. Ea: parts Perkins, 18 al. 60.

7. Where, in the regular course of judicial proceedings before a Court of
general jurisdiction, a party having notice of the proceedings has been ordered
by the judgment to pay a certain sum of money, and in default of obedience
to the order has been committed for contempt, he cannot, on application to the
Supreme Court for a writ of habeas corpus, question the regularity of the facts;
the power of the Court below to make the order is the only question. Id.

8. As to the regularity of the proceedings, and the propriety of the order, the
Supreme Court is not an appellate Court, ut a Court of original special jurisdiction, to discharge the applicant, when no legal cause of detention exists. Id.

9. District Courts have jurisdiction to punish for contempt ersons who reenter upon a tract of land, alter having been dispossessed there cm by a judgme‘ut6 and process of a Court of competent jurisdiction. People v. Dwinclle, 29
Ca . 32.

10. The Act of 1862, for the punishment of contempts committed by reentering on land after having been dispossessed by judgment and process of
a Court, was designed not only to protect the Court from contempt of its authority, but to ive a party injured an additional remedy in the action for the
restoration of w at he was entitled to by the judgment. Id.

11. Contempt, violation of an indunotion.—'l‘he District Court alone has
'urisdiction to try and punish for a contempt for the violation of an injunction

ued out of the District Court. People v. County Judge of Placer 00., 27 Cal.
151.

§ 481. A contempt committed in the presence qf the Court may

be punislzerl summarily; when not so committed, an ajidavit or
statement shall be made.

When a contempt is committed in the immediate viewand
presence of the Court, or Judge at Chambers, it may be punished summarily ; for which an order shall be made reciting
the facts as occurring in such immediate view and presence,
adjudging that the person proceeded against is thereby
guilty of a contempt, and that he be punished as therein prescribed. When the contempt is not committed in the immediate View and presence of the Court, or Judge at Chambers,
an affidavit shall be presented to the Court or Judge, of the

facts constituting the contempt, or a statement of the facts

by the referees or arbitrators.
Abb. Forms, 1886.

1. An order of Court adjudging a party guilty of contem t, should always
show upon its face the facts upon which the exercise of the wer is based,
and the adjudication is made. The People v. Turner, 1 Cal. 1 ‘ .

2. Whenever an order of the District Court. dning and imprisoning for contempt, does not specify on its face wherein the contempt consisted, it will be
reversed on certiorari. Ea: parte Field, Id. 187. .

3. Every Court has, while engaged in the erformance of its lawful functions, as an incident to its judicial character, e authority to preserve order,
decency and silence in its presence; and in such case may apprehend and

unish an odender without further examination or proof; but where the ofense is committed out of Court, the party is entitled to a notice and a hearing in his defense. Id.

4. An attachment will not be issued against a District Judge for non-compliance with a writ of mandamus, by which he was directed to vacate an order
expelling the relator from the bar, and reinstate him in his office of attorney,
when it does not appear from the papers on which the motion for the attac ment is founded that an application has been made to the Court to vacate
the order as commands by the writ of mandamus, and where it appears
that, so far as the action of the Judge in vacation is concerned, he has in substance complied with the command of the writ of mandamus; and in such
case, it will not be deemed a disobedience of the writ, that the Court has

in expelled the relator for reasons alleged to have arisen after the issuing
0 the writ. Id. 188.

5. The district Courts have jurisdiction to punish for contempts of their
process, and to such writs as are necessary to the exercise of that jurisdiction. Ea: parts Cohen et al., 5 Cal. 494.

6. A party committed for refusing to answer questions propounded to him
as a witness, under an order that he stand committed till e answer the questions, will be discharged on habeas corpus, where it appears that the suit has
abated; there being no longer parties or subject matter before the Court,
 is 7n5o longer a case in w 'ch the questions can be asked. Ea: parts Rowe,

. 1 .

7. It seems that the refractory witness might still be reached by attachment
for the contempt, and by a judgment thereon. Id.

8. A statement that R. was committed for contempt in refusing to answer
certain questions propounded to him by the grand jury, is not a compliance
with the section. The question asked should be set out. Id. 181.

9. A commitment for contempt in refusing to answer certain questions
propounded to the witness by the grand jury, “is not a compliance with the
statute, which requires that when the contempt consists in the omission to do

an act which it was in the power of the person to perform, the act shall be
speciiied in the commitment.” It does not appear from such commitment
whether the questions were legal or not. Id.

10. In such a case, the commitment should state that the grand jury were
inquiring into a certain question, stating it; that the prisoner was sworn as a
witness, and certain questions asked him, stating them; that he refused to
answer; that the facts were thereupon presented to the Court by the grand
‘my, and the prisoner required by the Court to answer, which being refused

_v the prisoner, he was committed for contempt. And this rule is ba=ed upon
the power of an appellate Court to review, on habeas corpus, the proceedings
of an inferior in cases of contempt. Id.

§ 482. A warrant of attachment may issue, or anotzce to show

cause.

When the contempt is not committed in the immediatt’-*
view and presence of the Court or Judge,a Warrant of attachment may be issued to bring the person‘ charged to
answer, or without a previous arrest, a warrant of commitment may upon notice, or upon an order to show cause, be

granted ; and no warrant of commitment shall be issued without such previous attachment to answer, or such notice or

order to show cause.

9‘ 483. ‘Bail may be given by a person arrested under such
warrant.

Whenever a warrant of attachment is issued pursuant
to this chapter, the Court or Judge shall direct by an
endorsement on such Warrant, that the person charged may
be let to bail for his appearance, in an amount to be specified

in such endorsement.
1 Amended stat. 1859, 160.

§484. S herzf shall, upon executing the warrant, arrest and
detain the person until discharged.

Upon executing the warrant of attachment, the Sheriff
shall keep the person in custody, bring him before the Court
or Judge, and detain him until an order be made in the premises, unless the person arrested entitle himself to be discharged, as provided in the next section.

§ 485. Bail bond, form and conditions of.

When a direction to let the person arrested to bail is contained in the warrant, of attachment, or endorsed thereon, he
shall be discharged from the arrest, upon executing and delivering to the officer, at any time before the return day of
the warrant, a written undertaking, with two sufncient sureties, to the eifect that the person arrested will appear on the
return of the warrant and abide the order of the Court or
Judge thereupon; or they will pay as may be directed, the
sum specified in the warrant.

§ 486. Ojicer shall return warrant and bail band, if any.

The officer shall return the warrant of arrest and undertaking, if any, received by him from the person arrested, by
the return day specified therein.

§ 487. Hearing.

When the person arrested has been brought up or appeared, the Court or Judge shall proceed to investigate the
charge and shall hear any answer which the person arrested
may make to the same, and may examine witnesses for or
against him, for which an adjournment may be had from time

to time, if necessary.

§ 488. Judgment and penalty if guilty.

Upon the answer and evidence taken, the Court or Judge
shall determine whether the person proceeded against is
guilty of the contempt charged, and if it be adjudged that he
is guilty of the contempt, a fine may be imposed on him not
exceeding five hundred dollars, or he may be imprisoned not
exceeding five days, or both.

§ 489. If the contempt is the omission to perform any act, the
person may be imprisoned until performance.

When the contempt consists in the omission to perform an
act which is yet in the power of the person to perform, he
may be imprisoned until he have performed it, and in that
case the act shall be specif1ed in the warrant of commitmen§ 490. Persons in contempt may also be indicted, if an indictable ofense.

Persons proceeded against according to the provisions of
this chapter, shall also be liable to indictment for the same
misconduct, if it be an indictable offense; but the Court before which a conviction is bad on the indictment, in passing

sentence, shall take into consideration the punishment before
inflicted.

§ 491. If a party fail to appear, proceedings.

When the warrant of arrest has been.returned served, if
the person arrested do not appear on the return day, the
Court or Judge may issue another warrant of arrest, or may
order the undertaking to be prosecuted, or both. If the undertaking be prosecuted, the measure of damages in the action
shall be the extent of the loss or injury sustained by the
aggrieved party, by reason of the misconduct for which the
warrant was issued, and the costs of the proceeding.

§-192. Illness sujicient excuse for nonappearcmce of party
arrested. Conjinement under arrests for contempt.

Whenever, by" the provisions of this chapter an officer is
required to keep a person arrested on a warrant of attachment in custody, and to bring him before a Court or Judge,
the inability from illness or otherwise of the person to at‘
tend shall be a sufficient excuse for not bringing him up;
and the officer shall not confine a person arrested upon the
warrant in a prison or otherwise restrain him of personal
liberty, except so far as may be necessary to secure his personal attendance.

§493. Judgments and orders in such cases final. Extent of
puishmet. '

The judgment and orders of the Court or Judge, made in
cases of contempt, shall be final and conclusive. The punishment shall be by fine or imprisonment, but no tine shall
exceed the sum of five hundred dollars, and no imprisonment
shall exceed the period of five days, except as provided in
section four hundred and eighty-nine.

1. The judgments and orders of Courts or Judges on the subjects of contempts, are by our statutes declared to be final and conclusive. Under the
writ of habeas corpus, this Court cannot review the orders of another Court in
such cases. Ea: parte Cohen et al., 5 Cal. 494.

2. The law regards the substance more than the form, and where the proceeding, though in form a case of contempt, is in substance a private right.
the a pellate Court will com el the Court below to issue an attachment to
punis a contempt. Merced ining Co. v. Fremont, 7 Cal. 130.

3. Per Bonxxrr, J. Every Court em wered to punish for contempt is not
t.(l31:lsol7e5and final Judge in all cases 0 alleged contempt. Ea: parts: Rowe,7

. 1 .

TITLE LI.

OF COSTS.

Sxcrron 494. Compensation of attorneys. Prevailing party shall be
allowed costs.

495. Plaintili’s costs shall be allowed, of course, upon judgment
in his favor in certain cases.

496. Several actions, brought on a single cause of action, shall
carry costs in but one.

497. Defendant’s costs shall be allowed, of course, in certain
cases.

498. Costs in actions not mentioned in section four hundred and
ninety-hve. Costs not allowed when recovery is less
than two hundred dollars.

499. When the several defendants are not united in interest,
costs may be reversed.

500. Costs discretionary with the Court in certain cases.

501. Repealed.

E02. Repealed.

503. Repealed.

504. Referee's fees.

505. Continuance ; costs may be imposed as a condition of.

506. Costs when a tender is made before suit is brought.

507. Costs in actions by, or against an administrator, etc.

508. Costs in a review, other than by appeal. 0

509. Costs paid on the commencement of an action.

510. Filing of an affidavit to bills of costs.

511. Interest and costs shall be included by the clerk in the
judgment.

512. Where plaintifff is a non-resident, or foreign corporation,
defendant may require security for costs.

513. Justitlcation of sureties on undertaking for costs.

514. If such security be not given, the action may be dismissed.

§ 494. ‘Compensation of attorneys. Prevailing party shall be
allowed costs.

The measure and mode of compensation of attorneys and
counselors shall be left to the agreement, express or implied,
of the parties; but there shall be allowed to the prevailing

party in any action in the Supreme Court, District Court,
Superior Court of the city of San Francisco, and County

Court, his costs and necessary disbursements in the action.
or specialproceeding in the nature of an action.

Amended 1853, 277; 1855, 250. N. Y. Code § 303.

1. G-eneral1y.—An attorney has no lien upon a judgment recovered by him
in favor of his client for a quantum meruit compensation for his services. Such
lien extends only to costs given by statute. Ea: parte Kyle, 1 Cal. 331.

2. Before suit brought the plaintifffs agreed with their attorneys that if the
latter brought this action and recovered, they should have one third of the
judgment and the costs as compensation. Alter judgment and execution

issued. the plaintiffs compromised with defendant for less than the amount of
the judgment, and entered satisfaction upon the record. Held, that the attorneys had no lien upon the jud ment, and could not disturb the satisfaction en«
tered by the plaintifffs. Mans v. Dorland, 2 Cal. 507.

3. Alien of the attorney for his costs was settled by this Court in ca: parts. Kyle
(1 Cal. R. 331) and Martgidd v. Dorland (2 Cal. 507), and not allowed. Russdl
v. Conway, 11 Cal. 103.

4. It being for the interest of all parties concerned, that the company should
be le ally dissolved: Held, that the costs and a counsel fee, on each side,
shoul be paid out of the fund. Von Schmidt v. Huntington, 1 Cal. 55.

5. A mortgage contained a stipulation for all the costs of foreclosure, including counsel fees, not exceeding five per cent. of the amount due. Held, that the
limitation of live per cent. is intended to apply to counsel fees alone, and that
the complainant would be entitled to recover the whole of his costs by operation
gfCtl:e4st2atute and independent of any stipulation. Gran,/ier v. Alinturn et aL,

a . 9 .

6. Where costs are imposed as condition for re-opening a case after the adoumment of the term, the acceptance of the costs of the opposite party will not
Ce lconstrued into a consent to have the cause reinstated. Carpenter v. Hart, 5

a . 406.

7. Costs by way of indemnity ought not to be taxed in case of a nonsuit.
Rice v. Leonard et al.. 5 Cal. 61.

8. Whether a sheriff, under the Fee Bill of 1855 (Stat. 1855, § 85) providing
that “ he shall also be allowed such further compensation for his trouble and
expense in taking possession of property under attachment or execution, or
other process, and of preserving the same, as the Court from which the writ or
order may issue shall certify to be just and reasonable,” is entitled to the expenses of pasturing, herding and keeping cattle attached, without obtaining a
certificate from the Court that such expenses are reasonable, not decided in this
case, because it was held that such certificate was virtually given by the Court
gipllowing the expenses, as taxed in a bill of costs. Smith v. Richmond, 19

a . 47 6.

9. A person claiming an interest in mortgaged premises subsequent to the
mortgage, is a proper party to the foreclosure suit. but cannot be subjected to
the costs of the foreclosure beyond those occasioned by his own separate defense. Luning v. Brady. 10 Cal. 267.

10. A mandamus is not the proper remedy, when an interior Court refuses to
enter a judgment for costs. The party should appeal or sue for his costs.
Peralta v. Adams, 2 Cal. 595.

11. A mistake in the computation of interest or taxation of costs caunothe
attacked for the tlrst time in an appellate Court. The party complaining must
move in a Court below to correct the computation, or retax the costs, and thus
obtain the judgment of the Court of original jurisdiction upon the disputed
i1t1e_;ns, before resort can be had to a higher tribunal. Guy v. Franklin, 5 Cal.

12. The judgment of the Supreme Court on appeal. and costs consequent
thereon, is final, and the District Court has no authority to prevent immediate
execution of the judgment of this Court so remitted. City of Jfarysville v.
Buchanan, 3 Cal. 212. '

13. The Clerk of the Supreme Court, in entering up the jud cut. adds the
words “with costs,” and annexes to the remittitur a co y of t e bill of cost
nled; these words are a sumcient awarding of costs for e clerk below to issue
an execution. Id.

14. Where a judgment is against two, one only of whom appeals, and the
appeal is dismissed with twenty per cent. damages, the damages with the costs
do not become part of the original judgment, and the redemptioner is not bound
to pay them when he redeems from a sale under the judgment The clerk
pflgui cgpl issue execution for these damages and costs. McMillan v. Vischa.

a . .

15. The notices and affidavits filed on application to retax costs were not
embodied in a bill of exceptions or statement: Held, that the judgment must
be affirmed, upon the presum tion that the Court below decided properly upon
all the evidence before it. v. Buckingham, 4 Cal. 286.

16. If the plaintifff in ejectment recovers judgment he is entitled to the costs,
though his recovery is for only a portion of the demanded premises, and the
efendsnt recovers judgment for the residue. Haven v. Date, 30 Cal. 547.

17. When a judgment for plaintifff is refused by the a pellate Court, and a

w trial is awarded, if laintiil‘ recovers judgment on e second trial, he is

titled to his costs in e Court below incurred on the first trial. Stoddard
. Ti-eadzccll, 29 Cal. 281.

18. Possibly asthe entry of such several judgments increases the costs, it

Cgllglge ground for re-taxing or apportioning them. Lick v. Sloclcdale, 18

19. Allowance of costs in many cases diacrei:ionary.—The allowance of costs rests in the discretion of the Court of original jurisdiction.
And where, on sustaining a demurrer to a complaint, on the ground that the
complaint did not state facts suilicient to constitute a cause of action, the
Court gave judgment for the defendant for full costs, including a jury fee.
Held, no such abuse of discretion as to warrant interference by the Supreme
Court. Harvey v. Chilton, 11 Cal. 119.

20. The Supreme Court will onl review the ruling of an inferior Court in
the matter of costs upon an ap from the judgment in the case. Votan v.
Races, 20 Cal. 90.

§ 495. ‘Plaintzfs costs shall be allowed, of course, upon judgment in his favor in certain cases. (1) (2) (3).

Costs shall be allowed of course to the plaintifff upon a
judgment in his favor in the following cases :

lst. In an action for the recovery of real property ;

2d. In an action to recover the possession of personal property, when the value of the property amounts to three hundred dollars or over. Such value shall be determined by the
jury, Court, or referee, by whom the action is tried ;

3d. In an action for the recovery of money or damages,
where plaintifff recovers three hundred dollars or over ;

4th. In a special proceeding in the nature of an action.
1 Amended 1853, 277; 1865-6, 847. See § 255. N. Y. Code, § 304.

1. First aubdiviaion.—In an action to try the right of the use of water,

and for da es for diverting it, where the amount for which judgment is

‘van is lelss 11 two hundred dollars, it will carry costs. Marius v. Biclcncll,
0 al. 21 .

18rxru'rs:s or1858, raon232,I7-—Applteable tow Oilyaond Oountyofsan I'rane:'sco only

Sacuox 'l.—'i'he prevailing party shall be snowed five per cent. on the amount
together-with any sum by him so paid in a cause as costs and disbursementato be included
in the in am against the adverse party; provided. said fiveper ceut. shall be allowed only
in lit cases; and roeided further, that said percentage shall not be allowed to exceed
the sum of one hundred dollars on any one Judgment.

israrnn or 1852. no: 160.

honors 1.—All costs which have or may hereafter accrue in cases where the State is a party
to action in any of the Courts of this State. and wherein the State. according to law,
is lo, shall be paid out or any funds in the state treasury not otherwise appropriated.

(3) Bcuurrs 1807-8. 883, Sec. 18.

' * Plaintii shall recoverthe sum of fifteen dollars. in addition to the taxable cost, as
attorney's tees ; provided, he shall waive the per centage on recovery as providedby law.
' ‘ [This applies to suits brought to recover street assessments in San Francisco county.)

2. In an action of ejectment, where the plaintii recovers part of the premises in suit, he is entitled to his costs. In such a case, the allowance of
<(:psts rlis nsot discretionary with the District Judge. Haven v. Dale and wife,

ct. . 1 66.

3. Second subdivision.--A defendant in replevin who recovers judgment,
the jury failin to find the value of the property to exceed two hundred dollars, is nevc eless entitled to his costs, where the plaintiffs com laintstates
its value at a sum exceeding that amount. Edgar v. Gray, 5 Cal. 7.

4. In an action to recover possession of personal property, if the plaintii!’
takes the property at the commencement of the action, and the defendant
prays a return of it, and the defendant was entitled to the property at the
commencement of the action, but his right has seized and rested in the
plaintifff before trial, the judgment should leave the props in laint:iE's
possession, but award costs to defendant. O'Connor v. Blake, C 312.

5. Third subdivialon.—The plaintifff can only be allowed costs when he
recovers two hundred dollars in an action for money or damages. Costs are
incident to the ju ent, and cannot be given by the jury by way of damages.
Shay v. Tuolunmc ater Co., 6 Cal. 286.

6. Costs of a suit form no Cp)art of the matter in dispute, and an apm
does not lie to the Supreme urt, where the amount involved is less
two hundred dollars, although the costs added thereto may increase it beond that sum. Dumphy v. Guindon, 13 Cal. 30, overruling Gordon v. Ross,
2 gal. 157 ; see Zabrislcie v. Ibrrey, 20 Cal. 174, and Meeker v. Harris, 23 Id.
8 .

7. In an action for the recovery of money or damages, the prevailing ‘party
is entitled to his costs. and the Court has no discretion in awarding em.

Stoddard v. Treadwell, 29 Cal. 281.

§ 496. Several actions brought on a single cause of action shall

carry costs in but one.

When several actions are brought on one bond, undertaking, promissory note, bill of exchange, or other instrument
in writing, or in any other case for the same cause of action,
against several parties who might have been joined as defendants in the same action, no costs shall be allowed to the
plaintifff in more than one of such actions, which may be at
his election, if the party proceeded against in the other actions were, at the commencement of the previous action
openly within this State ; but the disbursements of the plaintifff shall be allowed to him in each section [action].

N. Y. Code, § 304.

1. Where an action has been commenced against several defendants, and
there has been a judgment in their favor, they are not all entitled to recover
separate costs to the amount allowed by the act, but can only recover jointly,
as though there had been but one defendant. Rice v. Leonard etal.. 5 Cal. 61.

2. Possibly as the entry of such several judgments in ejectment increases
the costs, it would be ground for retaxing or apportioning them. Lick v.
Stoclodale, 18 Cal. 219.

See post, § 495.

§ 497. Defendanfs costs shall be allowed, of course, in certain
cases.

Costs shall be allowed of course to the defendant upon a

judgment in his favor in the actions mentioned in section
four hundred and ninety-five, and in a special proceeding in
the nature of an action.

N. Y. Code, § 305.

§ 498. ‘Costs in actions not mentioned in section four hundred

and ninety-fie:e ; costs not allowed, if recovery is less than two
hundred dollars.

In other actions than those mentioned in section four hundred and ninety-live, costs may be allowed or not; and if
allowed, may be apportioned between the parties, on the
same or adverse sides, in the discretion of the Court; but
no costs shall be allowed in an action for the recovery of
money or damages when the plaintifff recovers less than three
hundred dollars, nor in an action to recover the possession of
personal property, when the value of the property is less

than three hundred dollars.

‘ Amended 1865-6, 847. N. Y. Code, 6 806.

1. Costs in e uity are always in the discretion of the Court, and whether
ted or wit eld, are but as incidents to and no part of the relief sought.
3-3; 17. Daugherty et al., 25 Cal. 282.

2. In an action for dam es, where the ‘my found a verdict for plaintid’ for
fifty dollars and costs: eld, that ‘u gment could not be entered for
costs in favor ogglaintif. Shay v. Tao nme Water 00., 6 Cal. 286.

3. The plain ' can only be allowed costs when he recovers two hundred
dollars, in an action for money or damage. Costs are incident to the judgment, and cannot be given by the jury by wa of damages. Id.

4. The position of the appellant is that t e jury, having found that the
ditch was not a nuisance, the case is to be regarded, so far as the costs
are concerned, as a simple action for damages for injuries to the ropert of the plaintifff. If this position be correct, no costs were taxa le to
ei er party under the statute, the damages recovered being less than two
hundred dollars. Vatan v. Reese, 20 Cal. 90.

5. In this, case suit for damages to a mining claim and for an injunction,
plaintifffs had judgment for one hundred dollars and costs, taxed at $———, a
perpetual injunction being granted also. After the 'udgment was entered,
plaintifffs moved that costs for the trial be allowed. otion denied, except as
to the costs accrued by reason of the injunction granted. Held, that this is a
case where the allowance of costs is in the discretion of the Court below.
Esmond v. Chew et al., 17 Cal. 336.

§ 499. When the several defendants are not united in interest,
costs may be severed.

When there are several defendants in the actions mentioned in section four hundred and ninety-five, not united in
interest, and making separate defenses by separate answers,
and the plaintifff fails to recover judgment against all, the

Court shall award costs to such of the defendants as have

judgment in their favor.
N. Y. Code, § 306.

§ 500. Costs discretionary with the Court in certain cases.

In the following cases the costs of an appeal shall be in
the discretion of the Court:
lst. When a new trial is ordered ;

2d. When a judgment is modified.

N. Y. Code, 6 306.

1. Where a ju ent was amrmed in and reversed in part, the respondent was allowed is costs in the Court low, but was required to pay the
costs of the appeal. Cole v. Swanston, 1 Cal. 51.

2. The costs on appeal, or, properly, the costs in this Court, and the cost
of making up the appeal in the Court below, including the costs of making
out the transcript and the costs of the former trial, abide the event of the
suit. Gray v. Gray and Exton v. Palmer, 11 Cal. 341.

3. Where the judgment below is reversed on appeal, and a new trial had,
the costgsof the first trial are part of the final bill o costs. Vischer v. Webster,
13 Cal. .

4. The jud ent in this case being for too much interest, was modfiled
the Supreme ourt in that particular, and then permitted to stand at appe lant’s costs, on the principle that where the buggplme Court modifies the
judgment below for an apparent error, which a pe t might have had corrected below, on motiongrespondent will not taxed with costs. Cassia v.
Marshall, 18 Cal. 689.

5. Appellant made to pay costs, although the judgment is reversed Rani}
v. Cynthia, 18 Cal. 669.

6. Judgment may be amrmed as to a mandamus, but"reversed as to costs.
McD v. Roman, 2 Cal. 80.

7. ere in ejectment the facts found by the Court authorized a judgment
for possession, but not for damages, the 'udgment being for possession and
damages, was amrmed in the Supreme ourt, upon respondent's remitting
the damages and paying the costs of appeal. Doll v. Feller, 16 Cal. 433.

8. Case where each party was made to pay his own costs on appeal. Bradbury v. Barnes, 19 Cal. 120.

9. Case where costs of motion in Supreme Court were not allowed. Swain
v. Naglee, 19 Cal. 127.

10. Case where appellant paid costs in Supreme Court. Jungerman v. Bovcc,

19 Cal. 354.
11. Where a judgment of the Court was incorrect in part, the ap llate

Court ordered the Court below to modify its jud ent according y, and
Eh; appellants recovered the costs of their appeal. elch v. Sullivan, 8 Cal.
1 .

12. If no motion be made in the Court below to correct a clerical en-ordis—
closed by the pleadings, the error will be corrected in the Supreme Court at
appellant's cost. Tryon v. Sutton, 13 Cal. 491. 13. If any one or more of the parties desire a modihcation of the judgment
as to costs, the proper application should have been made within the ten days
allowed for filing a petition for a rehearing. Gray v. Gray, 11 Cal. 341.

14. Defendants below and appellants here, on the main question, to wit:
the injunction, r uired to pay costs in this Court on both appeals. Jiaugerman v. Bovee, 19 al. 355.

15. Where a case is remanded for further proceedings, and costs awarded
in this Court in eneral terms, the costs on appeal only are included, leaving
the costs of the ormer trial to abide the event of the suit-. Gray v. Gray, 11
Cal. 341, and en: parte Burrell, 24 Cal. 350.

16. See post, § 665, as to execution for costs on filing the 

17. The responsible for erroneous proceedings after the remiuitur has
been_ sent mi from the Supreme Court, must pay the costs of those

proceedings, and the costs co nest on a second appeal caused them. Argenti v. City of San Francisco, Cal. 458. by

17. When a judgment is reversed by the Supreme Court, and the case remanded for further and costs are awarded in general terms, the
costs awarded inclu s only e costs made [on the appe to the Supreme

Court, the costs of the former trial abide the event of the suit. Er parle Burrill at al., 24 Cal. 350.

18. If the printed transcript in the Sn reme Court is unnecessarily long,
the party responsible for this will be adiu to pay the costs of printing
thus unnecessarily incurred. People v. H 28 Cal. 129.

§ 501. Amended 1853, 278; repealed 1855, 250.
§ 502. Amended 1853, 250; repealed 1855, 250.

§ 503. Amended 1853, 250; repealed 1855, 250.
§ 504. Referees’ fees.

The fees of referees shall be five dollars to each for every
day spent in the business of the reference; but the parties

may agree in writing, upon any other rate of compensation,
and thereupon such rate shall be allowed.

§ 505. ‘Chntinuance, costs may be imposed as condition of.

When an application is made to a Court or referee to
postpone a trial, the payment of costs occasioned by the

postponement may be imposed, in the discretion of the Court

or referee, as a condition of granting the same.
’ Amended 1855, 251.

§ 506. Costs when a tender is made before suit brought.

When in an action for the recovery of money only, the defendant alleges in his answer that before the commencement
of the action he tendered to the plaintifff the full amount to
which he was entitled, and thereupon deposits in Court for
the plaintili‘ the amount so tendered, and the allegation be
found to be true, the plaintifff shall not recover costs, but
shall pay costs to the defendant.

1. 4 tender does not exti§nis_h or satisfy the obligation, and an 0893- to comly with the commands a iudgment does not amount to a satisfaction
ereof. Reddmgton v. Chase. an. T. 1888.

2. Where a tender is made of the full amount due before suitis ht,

and the tender is kept good and brought into Court, the  shoul be
for laintiif for the amount tendered, and for defendant r ' costs. Curiae
v.  -at al., 25 Cal. 502.

§ 507. Costs in action by or against an admivzistrator, etc.

In an action prosecuted or defended by an executor, administrator, trustee, of express trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute, costs may be recovered as in action by
and against a person prosecuting or defending in his own
right; but such costs shall, by the judgment, be made chargeable only upon the estate, fund, or party represented, unless
the Court shall direct the same to be paid by the plaintifff or
defendant, personally, for mismanagement or bad faith in the

action or defense.

N. Y. Code, 6317.

1. Executors and administrators are individuall responsible for costs recovered against them in every case; but they be allowed them in their
administration accounts, except when it a ears that the action has been
prosecuted or resisted without Just cause. icoa v. Graham, 6 Cal. 169.

§ 508. ants in a review other than by appeal.

When the decision of a Court of inferior jurisdiction in a
special proceeding is brought before a Court of higher jurisdiction for a review in any other way than by appeal, the
same costs shall be allowed as in cases on appeal, and may be
collected by execution, or in such manner as the Court may
direct, according to the nature of the case.

§ 509. ‘Costs paid on the commencement of an action.

On the commencement of an action, the plaintifff, and
on the filing of notice of appeal from final judgment
the appellant, shall pay to the Clerk three dollars, to be applied to the payment of the salary of the Judge of the Court
in which the payment is made. Each Clerk shall keep a
true and accurate account of all monies so received, and
shall pay over the same at the end of each month to the
Judge of such Court, taking duplicate receipts for each payment, one of which shall be filed by the said Clerk in his
office. On the first day of each month, the said Clerk shall de.
liver to the Auditer of the county an account of all sums
received, specifying the cases in which received, and of all

sums paid out. At the same time, a like account shall be
made out and forwarded by such Clerk to the Controller of

State of the sums paid into the District Court, and of the
sums paid out, with the other receipts of said Judge therefore.

It shall be the duty of the District Attorney, at the commencement of each month, to examine the books of said
Clerk, and if found correct, in the amount paid to the District Judge, he shall make and execute a certificate to such
Controller to that eliect; and if said books shall be found
correct in the amount paid to the County Judge, the said
District Attorney shall in like manner make and execute a
certificate to the County Auditor to that e&'ect. In paying
the salary of any District Judge, the Controller shall deduct
the amount paid to such Judge, as shown by his receipt;
and in like manner the County Auditor, in paying the salary

of any County Judge, shall deduct the amount to such Judge

as shown by his receipt.
‘Amended 1862, 88; 1863, 498.

§ 510. Filing of, and ajidavit to, bill of costs.

The party in whose favor judgment is rendered, and
who claims his costs, shall deliver to the Clerk of the
Court, within two days after the verdict or decision of the
Court, a memorandum of the items of his costs and necessary
disbursements in the action of proceeding; which memorandum shall be verified by the oath of the party, or his
attorney, stating that the items are correct, and that the dis.

bursements have been necessarily incurred in the action or

proceeding.
‘Amended 1855, 251.

1. Where costs on a peal to the Supreme Court are not entered on the
judgment docket in the ourt below, they do not become a lien on property
until the levy of an execution. Ohapin v. Broder, 16 Cal. 403.

2. The New York cases do not apply, because there, costs are taxed b
the clerk, on notice to the adverse party; but no time is nxed within whic
tlhie notice must be given, and the costs are not waived by failure to give it.

8. Under the Practice Act, as it stood in 1854, a party who failed to file
with the clerk a memorandum of costs within the time limited, waived his
right to costs, whether they were clerk's and sheriti"s fees or other costs. Id.

4. If the clerk's and sherifs fees were inserted in the judgment, when
nuoatn so claIi;;ned, the judgment is so far a nullity, and may be attacked collaty. .

6. Section live hundred and ten of the code, which provides that the party
who obtains a ju ent shall, within ten days after the verdict or judgment,
file with the clerk ‘is bill of costs, does not apply to costs on appeal to the
B a Court. Gray v. Gra _. 11 Cal. 341.

. Where the original hill 0 costs is filed within the time prescribed by the
act, an amendment allowed after the time relates back to the time of
 the original of which it forms merely a part. Burnham v. Bays, 3 Cal.
11 .

7. The affidavit by the attorney of the party accompanying the bill of costs is
good under the statute. Id.

8. If the original affidavit was a nullity, the defendant hould have taken
proper steps to set it aside. or have appealed from t e judgment, on the
ground that the costs had been waived by operation of the statute. Id.

9. For amendment or retaxation of costs, see Id.

10. A memorandum of the costs of tiling notice and undertaking on appeal,
and preparing the transcript for the Supreme Court, should be liledin &
office of the clerk of the Court below at the time of tiling the remlttitur there,
or within the time hereafter prescribed by the statute in other cases. E2 purl:

Bun-ill et al., 24 Cal. 350.
11. If the Court adds to the judgment the costs of the prevailing party after

the time for tiling the same has expired, and after an appeal has been perfected
tlge 631-ror (gin only be corrected by an appeal from the order. Jones v. Frost,
2 al. 24 .

12. A failure by the opposing party to file his coat bill, or to give notice
under a rule of Court allowing five days after notice for payment of the costs,
would not operate to make the vacation of the judgment absolute. Gregory v.
Haynes. 21 Cal. 443.

13. If items are included in the bill of costs which are not properl taxable,
it affords no just ground for refusing to issue an execution or recs ling one,
but the remedy is by motion to re-tax. Meeker v. Harris, 23 Cal. 285.

§ 511. ‘Interest and costs shall be included by the Clerk in the

judgment.
The Clerk shall include in the judgment entered up by
him, any interest on the verdict, or decision of the Court,

from the time it was rendered, or made, and the costs, if the
same have been taxed, or ascertained; and he shall, within

two days after the same shall be taxed, or ascertained, if not
included in the judgment, insert the same in a blank, left in
the judgment for that purpose, and shall make a similar insertion of the costs in the copies and docket of the judgment.

1Amended, 1861, 494. N. Y. Code, § 310.

1. After a judgment is entered and the record completed, the clerk has no
power to 1511 up the blank left for costs. His authority terminates with the
entry of the jud ent, and the Court alone, on motion to amend, is competent to relieve w ere costs are omitted. Chopin v. Broder, 16 Cal. 403.

2. The interest due forms a part of the amount in dispute, and where the

rincipal sum for which judgment is recovered is less than two hundred dolErs, if the interest added swells the judgment to more than two hundred dollars, the Supreme Court has justification. Slcillman v. Lachman. 23 Cal. 199.

3. Without any express contract in writing, made by the testator, providing for a hi her rate of interest than ten per cent. per annum, the executors
have no aut ority to consent to the entry of a judgment bearing a greater rate
of interest than ten per cent. per annum; and it they do so. they should be
charged with the excess of interest in their final account. Matter of estate q‘
Isaacs, 30 Cal. 105.

4. A jud ent can properly bear interest only from the time it is pronounced. nterest due, on demand, on which the action is brought, should
be included in the judgment when entered. Bipend v. L. and L. F. and L.
Ins. 00., 30 Cal. 78.

5. Where a judgment is reversed by the Supreme Court, and the case
remanded for further rooeedings, and costs are awarded in general terms.
the costs awarded inc ude only the costs made on the a peal to the Supreme
Court. The costs of the former trial abide the event 0 the suit. Be part:
Bu:-rill et al., 24 Cal. 850.

6. The clerk of the Court below can issue an execution. if required by the
ailing party, for the costs included in the memorandum and the costs of
e clerk of the Sn reme Court, as certified by him or the remittitur. Id.

7. Costs are in uded in and constitute a part of the judgment. and hence,
though ascertained and adjudged by the Court after an entry of the judgment
by the clerk may have been made, yet the law considers such action of the

as having preceded the final judgment. Laslcy v. Davis, Oct. T. 1867.

§ 512. Where plaintiff is a nonresident, or foreign corporation, defendant may require security for costs.

When the plaintifff in an action resides out of the State, or
is a foreign corporation, security for the costs and charges
which may be awarded against such plaintifff may be required
by the defendant. When required, all proceedings in the
action shall be stayed until an undertaking, executed by two
or more persons, be filed with the Clerk, to the effect that
they will pay such costs and charges as may be awarded
against the plaintiff by judgment, or in the progressof the
action, not exceeding the sum of three hundred dollars. A
new or an additional undertaking may be ordered by the Court
or Judge upon proof that the original undertaking is insuHicient security, and proceedings in the action stayed until
such new or additional undertaking be executed and filed.

N. Y. Code, § 303.

1. Where defendant, December 19th, under sections uve hundred and
twelve and five hundred and fourteen of the Practice Act, served on plaintifff,
a non-resident. notice to give security for costs, the notice not being accompanied with an order staying proceedings, and on the next da 'ud t
rendered for defendant, and plaintid ap y J gmen was
a

y . _ peeled to the Supreme Court: Held,
on motion to dismiss the ap al, that, ’ter judgment, it was too late to move

to dismiss the action; that e undertaking on appeal is suilicient security for
costs subse uently incurred, and that the motion must be denied. Comstoclc
v. Clemens, 9 Cal. 77.

§ 513. Justification of sureties an undertaking for costs.

Each of the sureties on the undertaking mentioned in the
last section shall annex to the same an affidavit that he is a
resident and householder or freeholder wit.hin the county,
and is worth double the amount specined in the undertaking,
over and above all his just debts and liabilities, exclusive of
property exempt from execution. ‘

§514. If such security be not given, the action may be dismissed.

After the lapse of thirty days from the service of notice
that security is required, or of an order for new or additional
security, upon proof thereof, and that no undertaking as required has been filed, the Court or Judge may order the
action to be dismissed.

TITLE LII.

OF‘ MOTIONS, ORDERS, NOTICES, SERVICE OF PAPERS, AND HISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

Sscrron 515. Order and motion, denned.

516. Motions, where to be made.

517. Notice of motion, at what time to be given.

518. Transfer of motions, and orders to show cause.

519. Provisions of this title not applicable to original or am

rocess.

520. Seiivice of notice of motion, when personal or otherwise.

521. Service may be made by mail when the persons reside in
dinerent places.

522. Manner of service by mail.

523. Appearance. Notices after appearance.

524. Service on non-residents. Where a party has an attorney,
service shall be on such attorney.

525. Successive actions on the same contract, etc.

526. Consolidation of several actions into one.

527. Adverse claims, actions may be brought to determine.

528. The Clerk shall keep aregister of actions.

529. Two or three referees, etc., may do any act.

530. Computation of time in this act. The time within which
any act is to be done may be extended.

531. Papers without title of the action, or with defective title,
may be valid.

532. Limitation of actions which have arisen in another Smte.

§ 515. Order and motion, defined.

Every direction of a Court or Judge made or entered in
writing, and not included in a judgment, is denominated an

order. An application for an order is a motion.

N. Y. Code, § 400.
1. An app'ication for an order is a motion. Jenkins v. Frinlc, 27 Cal. 399.

2. When the statute speaks of notice of a motion. it means written notice,
or notice in open Court, of which a minute is made by the clerk. Bo:-land v.
Thornton, 12 Cal. 440.

3. Against a motion there seems to be no statute of limitations, and it may
be made when there is no unreasonable delay. v. Harris, 14 Cal. 668.

4. Where a party in his notice of motion, serv on the adverse party, asks

for a ' c relief, or for such other or further order as maybe just, the Court
may ord any relief compatible with the facts of the case presented. The
People v. Turner, 1 Cal. 152.

§ 516. Motions, where to be made.

Motions shall be made in the county in which the action is

brought, or in an adjoining county in the same district.

N. Y. Code, § 401.

'1. If the Judge who tried a cause goes to a coun in his district not adjoining the one in which the case was tried, to hold ourt, before the time for
illmg amendments to the statement on motion for a new trial has expired, the
moving  rosecutes the motion with due diligence, if he brings the same

to a hearing w on the Judge returns or first holds Court in a count; adjmmr?
the one in which the case was tried. Warden v. Mendocino County, 2 Cal. 65 .

§ 517. Notice of motion, at what time to be given.

When a written notice of a motion is necessary, it shall be
given, if the Court be held in the same district with both
parties five days before the time appointed for the hearing;
otherwise ten days, but the Court, or Judge, or County Judge

may prescribe a shorter time.

N. Y. Code, 6 402. Amended 1853, 278.

1. The Court has it always in its power, in the exercise of a proper discretion, to extend the time fixed by law for filing papers in a cause. Wood v.

Forbes, 5 Id. 62.

2. If there is any ambiguity in the terms of a notice, rendering its meaning
doubtful, the construction must be most strongly against the party giving the
notice. Carpentier v. Thurston, 30 Cal. 123.

3. Notice of an application b plaintiff for an injunction must be given for
the length of time presented y section five hundred and seventeen of the
Practice Act. If given for a shorter time, and defendant does not a pear, he
may treat an injunction thus obtained as granted without notice, an move to
dissolve the same under section one hundred and eighteen. Johnson v. Wide

West Mining 0a., 22 on. 479.

§ 518. Transfer of motions, and orders to show cause.

When a notice of motion is given, or an order to show cause
is made returnable before _a Judge out of Court, and at the
time fixed for the motion, or on the return day of the order,
the Judge is unable to hear the parties, the matter may be
transferred by his order to some other Judge, before whom it
might originally have been brought.

N. Y. Code, § 404.

§ 519. Provisions of this title not applicable to original or fina
process.

Written notices and other papers, when required to be
served on the party or attorney, shall be served in the manner prescribed in the next three sections, when not otherwise
provided ; but nothing in this title shall be applicable to
original or final process, or any proceedings to bring a party
into contempt.

§ 520. Service of notice of motion, when personal or otherwise.

The service may be personal, by delivery to the party or
attorney, on whom the service is required to be made, or it
may be as follows :

1st. If upon an attorney, it may be made during his absence from his office, by leaving the notice or other papers
with his Clerk therein, or with a person having charge there’
of; or when there is no person in the oiiice, by leaving them,
between the hours of eight in the morning and six in the
afternoon, in a conspicuous place in the office ; or if it be not
open, so as to admit of such service, then by leaving them at
the attorney’s residence, with some person of suitable age
and discretion; and if his residence be not known, then by
putting the same, inclosed in an envelope, into the post office,
directed to such attorney ;

2d. If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the notice
or other paper at his residence between the hours of eight
in the morning and six in the evening, with some person of
suitable age and discretion; and if his residence be not
known, by putting the same, enclosed in an envelope, into the
post oiiice, directed to such party.

N. Y. Code, $409.

1. Where a arty changes his attorney in an action, and there is no regular
substitution 0 attorneys as pointed out by statute, notices may be served on
the attorne of record. Grant v. White, 6 Cal. 55.

2. An ac nowledgment of service endorsed on a notice of appeal, as follows: “ Due service of a copy of the’ within notice is hereby accepted to have
been made this twentieth day of February, 1863,” is no waiver of an objection
that service upon the day mentioned is too late. Ibwdy v. Ellis, 22 Cal. 650.

3. A statement on the back of a notice of the motion for a new trial, signed
by the attorney of the moving party, stating that the notice was served at a
certain time, is not evidence of such service. Oalderwood v. Brooks, 28 Cal. 152.

4. If the record does not show that the party resisting an application for new
trial proposed any amendments to the statement, or participated in its settlement, it will be presumed that be waived service of notice. Id.

5. An affidavit of service of a notice of appeal on the respondent’s attorney,
if it does not show a personal service, must state that the notice was let} in his
office, with his clerk, or with a person having charge thereof, or that no person
was in the office, and that the notice was let! there in a conspicuous lace, between the hours of eight in the morning and sixin the Imernoon. v. Smith,
32 Cal. 475.

§521. Service may be made bymail when persons reside in
dzferent places.

Service by mail may be made, where the person making
the service, and the person on whom it is to be made, reside
in different places, between which there is a regular communication by mail.
N. Y. Code, § 410.

1. A party relying upon a service of a notice by mail, must show a strict comliance with the provisions of the statute in making service. People v. Alameda
gin-spike 00., 30 Cal. 182.

2. An affidavit of service of a notice of appeal by mail, must state that there

is a regular communication by mail between the place of residence of the person makindthe service and the residence of the person upon whom it is to be
served.

3. An aliiidavit of service of notice of appeal by mail, under section five hundred and twenty-one of the Practice Act, must show that the erson making the

service resides in a different lace from the person upon w cm the service is
made. Moore v. Bescc, April . 1868.

§ 522. Manner of service by mail.

In case of service by mail, the notice, or other paper, shall
be deposited in the post-oiiice, addressed to the person on
whom it is to be served, at his place of residence, and the
postage paid. And in such case, the time of service shall be
increased one day for every twenty-five miles distance, between the place of deposit and the place of address ; provided, that service in any case shall be deemed complete at

the end of ninety days from the date of its deposit in the

post-office.

1Amended 1861, 497.

1. When a legal notice is served by mail the distance which it travels is a
quesh'on of fact to be determined by proof. Neely v. Nagtes, 23 Cal. 152.

§ 523. Appearance. Notices after appearance.

A. defendant shall be deemed to appear in an action when
he answers, demurs, or gives the plaintifff a written notice
of his appearance, or when an attorney gives notice of
appearance for him. After appearance, a defendant or his
attorney shall be entitled to notice of all subsequent proceedings of which notice is required to be given. But where a
defendant has not appeared, service of notice or papers need

not be made upon him, unless he be imprisoned for want of

bail.
N. Y. Code, 9 414., 35, 61; Abb. Forms 143, 146. See ante 28, 33.

. 3

1. Where the record shows, in general terms, the appearance of parties, the
ap nce will be coniinedto these parties served with process. Chester v.

, 13 Cal. 558.
2. The object of a summons is to b ' the party into Court. If that object be obtained b the a nce an  of the party, he cannot complain. Smithv. urtis, 7 111.584.

3. When a defendant appears for the purpose of taking advan of ' lar summons by a motion to dismiss. it  not amount to _a vtvtgger 

rights so as to cure the defect. Deideslmmer v. Brown, 8 Cal. 339.

4. Nor does he waive his rights by answering after moving to dismiss, and
motion overruled. Id.

5. Where the Court makes an order requiring pllaintid‘ to appear at a certain time, and show cause why a judgment in ‘s favor should not be set
aside, and it does not appear that a copy of the order was served on plaintifff
or his attorney. or that any notice was given of the time at which the matter
was to be heard. it is error for the Court to set aside the judgment, and its
order to that efect will be reversed on appeal. Vallejo v. Green, 16 Cal. 160.

6. When a motion is made to dismiss upon an irregular ap cc, and is
overruled, and defendant answers, it is not to be conside as such an appearance aswaives the irregularity. Deidesheimer v. Brown, 8 Cal. 339; Gray
v. Hawes, 8 Cal. 669. .

7. A defendant cannot a in an action so as to give the Court jurisdiction of his person, except answering, demurring or giving plaintin‘ written
notice that he appears. an the service of the notice of appearance must
antedate orbe contemporaneous with the service of all other notices and papers
Steinbeck v. Lease, 27 Cal. 297.

8. The roceedingsin thiscaseha ° been transferred to amagistratewho
had juris 'ction by consent of parties, e appearance of defendant, and his
consent nxing the time of trial, were a waiver of his right to be brought in by
complaint and summons. Oronise v. Oarghill, 4 Cal. 1 .

9. An appearance entered by an attorney, whether authorized or not. is a
good and sutllcient appearance to bind the party, except in those cases where
fraud has been used, or it is shown that the attorney is unable to respond in
damages. Suydam at al. v. Pitcher at al., 4 Cal. 280.

10. A notice iven by an attorney to plaintifffs attorn that defendant will
move, before a curt commissioner, that an attachment ed in the case be
czlsiszolireéii does not constitute an appearance in the action. Glidden v. Pacloard,

a . 9.

11. Attorney is presumed to have author'ity.—'l‘he authority of an
attorney-at-law to appear for parties. for whom he enters an appearance in an
action, will be presumed where nothing to the contrary appears. Hayes v. Shattuclc, 21 Cal. 51; Willson v. Cleveland, 30 Cal. 192.

12. The authority of an attorne who ap are will be presumed, and his
action will blind the party, unless cases 0 fraud or insolvency of the attorne . Nor will such action be reviewed on the ground of mistake, unless the
m stake be unmixed with any fault or negligence of either the party or his
attorney. Holmes v. Rogers et al., 13 Cal. 191.

13. An attorney of the Court, who institutes suit in the name of laintllf, is
presumed prima facie to have authority, and the adverse arty or attorney
cannot, upon mere suggestion at the bar, deny the right 0 a party to appear
by the attorney of record, nor deny that the attorney so appearing has full
authority to prosecute the suit. Turner '7. (Jaruthers, 17 Cal. 431.

14. It seems that the ap arance of an attorney wholly unauthorized, there
being no fraud and no al egation of insolvency, would not give the party a
iight to asaail the judgment on that ground. Holmes v. Rogers et aL, 13 Cal.

91.

16. Appearance in propria persona or by att:orney.—A party to an
action ma ap r in his own proper erson or by attorney, but he cannot do
both; an . if e appears by attorney, e cannot assume the control of the case.

Boardof Commissioners v. Younger, 29 Cal. 147.
16 . Stipulation of an attorney.—An attorney-at-law for one of the parties

in a proceeding in a County Court to determine conflicting claims to town lots,
cannot, after the Board of Trustees of the town have awarded the lot to his
client, pass the client’s right or title by a stipnldtion in the case for the entry of
a void judgment. Ryan v. Tomlinson, 31 Cal. 11. ‘

17. While an attorney of record remains such, his right to manage and
control the action cannot be questioned by the opposite party. Board of Commissioners v. Younger, 29 Cal. 147.

18. Notice to attorney at law is notice to c1ient.—It is the duty of an
attorney to communicate to his client whatever information he ac uires in
relation to the subject matter of the suit, and he will be presume to have

rformed his du , and notice to him is constructive notice to his client.
gene’ v. Red Btu Hotel Company, 31 Cal. 160.

19. Appearance by mistake.—8ee Forbes v. Hyde, 31 Cal. 342. See ante,
§ 22, and notes.
§ 524. Service on non-residents. Where a party has an attorney, service shall be on such attorney.

When a plaintiff or a defendant who has appeared resides
out of the State, and has no attorney in the action or pro‘
ceeding, the service may-be made on the Clerk for him.
But in all cases where a party has an attorney in the action
or proceeding, the service of papers, when required, shall be
upon the attorney instead of the party, except of subpoenas.
of writs, and other process issued in the suit, and of papers

to bring him into contempt.
N. Y. Code, §415.

§ 525. Successive actions on the same contract, etc.
Successive actions may be maintained upon the same con’

tract or transaction, whenever, after the former action, a new
cause of action arises therefrom.

§ 526. Consolidation of several actions into one.

Whenever two or more actions are pending at one time
between the same parties, and in the same Court, upon causes
of action which might have been joined, the Court may
order the actions to be consolidated into one.

N. Y. Code, § 167; Abb. Forms 1934.

1. The Supreme Court will not consolidate suits brought upon distinct
causes of action. Wallace v. Eldridge (No. 2), 27 Cal. 498.

§ 527. Adverse claims, action may be brought to determine.

An action may be brought by one person against another,
for the purpose of determining an adverse claim which the
latter makes against the former, for money or property, upon
an alleged obligation; and also against two or more persons,

for the purpose of compelling one to satisfy a debt due to the

other, for which the plaintifff is bound as security.

Willard's Eq. Jur., 106-124.

1. Sustained. King v. Hall. 5 Cal. 82.

2. Where suit was pending in one Court on a_ note of defendant, the h no
summons had been served, and no appearance made: Held, that he d not
bring a bill in equity in another Court to enjoin the collection of the note or
to cancel it, the averment being simply that he has a defense to the
note; held, further, that this was not a proceeding under t e five hundred and
twen -seventh section of the Practice Act. Smith v. Sparrow, 13 Cal. 596.

3. . and B. executed a joint promissory note to C. B. was surety for A.
B. brought an action against 0., after the maturity of the note, to com 1 him
at once to proceed and collect the amount due on the note from A., e principal, and obtained a decree requiring C. to commence legal proceedings

against A. for the collection of the note, upon B.’s tendering to him a snmcient
amount to ay reasonable costs and expenses, or be forever debarred from
collecting t e same from B. B. deposited with the clerk and sherid’ a sun-.
cient amount to pay their costs, and tendered to C. the services of an attorney
employed by B O. refused to commence the action, and A. subsequently became insolvent. Held, that this was not a compliance with the conditions of
the decree by B., the sure . and that he was not released from his liability
on the note. Dane v. 0 mm, 24 Cal. 158.

§ 528. The Clerk shall keep a register of actions.

The Clerk shall keep among the records of the Court, a register of actions. He shall enter therein the title of the action,
with brief notes under it, from time to time, of all papers
died and proceedings had therein.

§ 529. Two of three referees, etc., may do any act.

When there are three referees, or three arbitrators, all
shall meet, but two of them may do any act which might be
done by all.

§ 530. ‘Computation of  in this act. The time within
which an act 229 to be done may be extended.

The time within which an act is to be done, as provided in
this Act, shall be computed by excluding the first day, and
including the last; if the last day be Sunday, it shall be excluded. When the act to be done relates to the pleadings in
the action, or the undertakings to be filed, or the justification
of sureties, or the service of notices, other than of appeal,
or the preparation of statements, or of bills of exceptions, or
of amendments thereto, the time allowed by this Act may be
extended, upon good cause shown, by the Court in which the
action is pending, or the Judge thereof, or in the absence of

such Judge from the county in which the action is pending,

by the County Judge; but such extension shall not exceed
thirty days, beyond the time prescribed by this Act, without

the consent of the adverse party.

‘ Amended 1861, 591. N. Y. Code, § 407.

1. When the time is imgortant, Courts will inquire into a day, or fractional
portion o!’ a day. People . Beatty, 14 Cai. 666.

2. The month contemplated by the statutes of this State, is a calendar and
not a lunar month. L. d: 8. Society v. Thompson, 32 Cal. 347.

3. A public action of a summons weekly against a non-resident defendant,
commencing on the 10th da of January and endin on the 9th day of A ril,
is a publication of three fu calendar months, an the am day of the or?
within which the defendant is required to answer is the 10th of April. I .

4. If the last day of the publication of a summons is in the same week in
which the three months expires, the publication sufficient to ‘vs the Court

jurisdiction, although this ay is less than three months from c first day of
publication. Id.

5. If some of the publications of a summons, including the last, are made

(193 Sunday in the regular issues of the paper, it does not vitiate the service.

§ 531. Papers without the title of the action, or with defective
title, may be valid. 7

A11 afhdavit, notice, or other paper, without the title of
the action or proceeding in which it is made, or with a defective title, shall be as valid and effectual for any purpose as
if duly entitled, if it intelligibly refer to such action or pro'ceeding. '

N. Y. Code, g 406. '

1. A slight error in the title of a cause, where there is no other suit mi
iélfl between the parties, will not invalidate the notice. 1:! ills v. Dung, '3

. 94.
§ 532.  of actions which have arisen in another
State.

When a cause of action has arisen in another State, or in a
foreign country, and by the laws thereof an action thereon cannot there be maintained against a person by reason of the lapse
of time, an action thereon shall not be maintained against
him in this State, except in favor of a citizen thereof, who
has held the cause of action from the time it accrued.

‘Where a judgment by confession was entered in Pennsylvania, which was
afterward opened, and a trial had, which resulted in judgment for laintif :
Held, that our statute of limitations did not commence running unti the final
entry, although, by the laws of Pennsylvania, the lieu of the first judgment
was not destroyed. Parke v. Williams, 7 Cal. 247. '

2. The statute of limitations of this State only commences running against
a judgment from me time of the final entry thereof. Id.

TITLE LIII.

or pnoonnnmos IN crvn. cases In JUSTICE8’ counrs.

CHAPTER I.— Of the parties, and the time and place of commencing actions in Justices’ Courts.

Sncrron 533. Certain of the foregoing provisions shall be applicable to
J ustlces’ Courts. '

534. Parties may appear in person or by attorney.

535. Venue of actions in Justices’ Courts.

536. Judgment by confession, venue of. ,

537. Actions in which parties voluntarily appear, venue of.

§ 533. ‘Certain of the foregoing provisions shall be applicable
to Justices’ Cburts. _

The provisions of title one of this Act, as to parties to actions, shall be applicable to actions of which a Justices’ Court
has jurisdiction; also, the provisions of this Act from section
three hundred and seventeen to section three hundred and

thirty-two, both sections inclusive, are hereby made applicable to Justices’ Courts, the word “Justice ” being substituted
for the word “Clerk,” and the word “Constable” for the

word “ Sherinl”
1Amended statutes 1860. 304.

§ 534. Parties may appear in person or by attorney.
Parties in Justices’ Courts may prosecute or defend in person, or by attorney; and any person, on the request of a party,
may act as his attorney, except that the Constable by whom

the summons or jury process was served, shall not appear or
act on the trial in behalf of either party.

§ 535. ‘Venue of actions in Justices’ Courts.
[1867—8]. No person shall be held to answer to any summons issued against him from a J ustice’s Court, in a civil action ,

in any township or city other than the one in which he shall

reside, except in the cases following:
First—When there shall be no J ustice’s Court for the township or city in which the defendant may reside, or no Justice

competent to act on the case.

aSecond——When two or more persons shall be jointly or
jointly and severally bound in any debt or contract, or otherwise jointly liable in the ‘same action, and reside in different
townships or different cities of the same county, or in different
counties, the plaintifff may prosecute his action in a Justices’
Court of the township or city in which any of the debtors or
other persons liable may reside.

Thz'rd—In cases of injury to the person, or to real or per.
aonal property, the plaintifff may prosecute his action in the
township or city where the injury was committed.

Fourth—Where personal property, unjustly taken or detained, is claim'ed, or damages therefore are claimed, the
plaintifff may bring his action in any ‘township or city in’
which the property may be found, or in which the property
was taken.

F{fth—When the defendant is a non-resident of the county,
he may be sued in any township or city wherein he may be

found.

Si:cth—When a person has contracted to perform any obligation at a particular place, and reside, in another county
or in a township or city of the same county, he may be sued
in the township or city in which such obligation is to be
performed or in which he resides; and for the purpose of
Justices’ Courts’ jurisdiction under this clause, the township or city in which the obligation is incurred shall be
deemed to be the township or city in which it is to be performed, unless there is a special contract to the contrary.

Seventh—When the foreclosure of a mortgage or the enforcement of a lien upon personal property is sought by the
action, the plaintifff’ may sue in the township or city where
the property is situated.

E'z'ghth—Any person or persons residing in the city of
San Francisco may be held to answer to any summons issued
against him or them from the Court of a Justice for any
township within the corporate limits of the city of San
Francisco, in any action or proceeding whereof Justices of
the Peace of the city or county of San Francisco have, or
may have, jurisdiction by law; provided, nothing herein

contained shall be construed to allow any {Justice of said
city or county to hold a Court in any other township than

the one for which he shall have been elected. (1)
‘Amended Statutes, 1353, 273; 1887-8, 550.

1. Where the record shows that suit was brought in township No. 4,
Sierra county, that the summons was served, by the constable of that township, in township No. 3, and it nowhere a pears either the defendant was a
resident of townshi No. 4, or a non-resi ent of the county, or that the suit
was within an of e other exceptions of the statute. (Wood's Dig. 232.
233.) The ju ent rendered is void, and not admissible as evidence of h'tle
upon a sale e thereunder. Low v. Alexander, 15 Cal. 296.

2. The jurisdiction of Justices’ Courts is special and limited, and the law
presumes nothing in favor of their jurisdiction. A party who asserts a right
under a judgment rendered in a J usu'ce's Court, must show am:-matively every

factnecessary to ‘vs the Court 'urisdiction to rsndeqsuch judgment. Rmnley
v. Howard, 23 Gag‘ 401. J _

§ 536. Judgment by confession, venue of.

Judgment upon confession may be entered up in any Justice's Court in the State specified in the confession.

1. Judgment by consent or confession, for over two hundred dollars (now
$300) in a Justice's Court, is void. Consent of ca cannot give jurisdictionwhiohtheConstimh'oadenies. Fcilkttv. ngler, 80151. 7 ;seeBradly
17. Kent, 22 Cal. 169.

§ 537. Actions in which parties volmmo-ily appear, venue of.

Justices’ Courts shall have jurisdiction of an action and
the persons of the parties thereto upon the voluntary appearance of the parties without summons, and without regard to
their residences or the place where the cause of action arose or

the subject matter of the action may exist. The plaintifff may

commence an action by summons, either in the township or

city where the contract was by its terms to be performed, or
in which the ‘defendant resides, as he may elect.
‘Amended Statutes, 1865-6, p. 709.

 

(1)9ra'ru'rn or 1807-'8, not 651

81011015. Nothin inthlssct shsnbeconrrnedto precludsthebrlnglngofsottoll II
Justloefoourtsof Btstesgvnstsnypartyorparties reaId1ngontotshlsBhts.

TITLE LIV. '

CHAPTER II.—Summons, arrest, attachment and chim of personal property.

Samoa 538. Commencement of actions in Justices’ Courts.
- 539. Appointment of ardians.
540. Summons, forma and substantial facts of.
541. Time within which summons shall be returned.
542. Service of summons. '
543. Service by publication.
544. Order of arrest. and arrest of defendant.
545. Ailidavit and undertakin for order of arrest.
546. A defendant arrested sh be taken before the Justice immediately.
547. The officer shall 've notice to plaintifff of the arrest.
548. The officer shall etain defendant until duly discharged.
549. Defendant may demand trial immediately.
550. Adjournment on motion of a defendant shall be granted
on filing undertaking.
551. Attachment against the property of defendant may be
made in certain cases.
552. Writ of attachment shall issue u n atlldavit.
553. Undertaking on attachment shal be required.
554. Writ of attachment, substance of. The officer may take
an undertaking instead of le 'ng.
555. Certain preceding provisions s$ apply to attachments in
55 Plglustiges’  mu
6. 'nti may rep e rso ro .
557. Amdavit in replevinv.y P8 P petty
558. The Justice shall order the officer to replevy the property
upon receiving an underta?°1i11g. "
559. Undertaking in replevin. e officer shall serve the
affidavit, order and undertaking on defendant.
560. Defendant may except to the sureties. The oilcer shall be
responsible until the sureties justify.
561. Defendant may, within two (lays, require a return of the
property.
562. Defendant’s sureties _shall justify. Oiiicer to be responsible until such justitication.
563. If the property be concealed, duty of the officer.
564. The otllcer shall deliver the property to the party entitled
thereto.
565. Claim of the property by a third party, proceedings upon.
566. The officer shall return order and affidavit within five days.
567. Qualilication of sureties in this chapter.
568. Manner of justification of sureties.
569. Examination to be annexed to the undertaking.

§ 538. Commencement of actions in Justices’ Courts.

Actions in Justices’ Courts shall be commenced by filing a
copy of the account, note, bill, bond, or instrument upon which
the action is brought, or a concise statement in writing of the
cause of action, and the issuance of a summons thereon, or

by the voluntary appearance and pleadings of the parties
without summons. In the latter case the action shall be
deemed commenced at the time of appearance.

§ 539. Appointment of guardians.

When a guardian is necessary, he shall be appointed by the
Justice, as follows:

First—If the infant be plaintifff, the appointment shall be
made before the summons is issued, upon the application of
the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years or upwards;
if under that age, upon the application of some relative or
friend. The consent in writing of the guardian to be appointed, and to be responsible for costs, if he fail in the
action, shall be first filed with the Justice.

Second—-If the infant be defendant, the guardian shall be
appointed at the time the summons is returned, or before the
pleadings. It shall be the right of the infant to nominate his
own guardian, if the infant be over fourteen years of age, and
the proposed guardian be present and consent in writing to
be appointed. Otherwise, the Justice may appoint any suit.
able person who gives such consent.

§ 540. Summons, formal and substantial facts of.

9 The summons shall be addressed to the defendant by name,
or if his name be unknown, by a fictitious name; and shall
summon him to appear before the Justice at his office, naming
its township or city, and at a time specified therein, to answer
the complaint of the plaintifff, for a cause of action therein
described in general terms, suliicient to apprise the defendant of the nature of the claim against him ; and in action
for money or damages, shall state the amount for which the
plaintifff will take judgment, if the defendant fail to appear

and answer. It shall be subscribed by the Justice before
whom it is returnable. '

§ 541. Time within which summons shall be returned.

[1867—8.] The time in which the summons shall require
the defendant to appear and answer the complaint shall be
as follows:

First-—If_ the plaintifff and defendant reside in the township where the action is brought, within ten days after the
service thereof.

Second—If the plaintifff and defendant reside out of the
township but within the county where the action is 5
brought, within five days after the service thereof.

Thz'rd—If the plaintifff’ reside out of the township where ,
the action is brought and the defendant resides in said ‘
township, within three days after the service thereof.

Fow~.th—If the defendant reside out of the county or
township in which the action is brought and plaintifff
resides in said township, within fifteen days after the ser- 2 ‘
vice thereof. The defendant may appear in the action by
demurrer or answer any time after service of summons
upon him, and shall notify the plaintifff, by written notice, of
such appearance. If any of the defendants shall fail to answer or appear in the action within the time prescribed in
the summons, such default shall be entered by the Justice in
his docket. If all the defendants shall fail to appear or answer within the time prescribed in the summons, the Justice
shall thereupon enter judgment against them for the
amount demanded in the summons, where the action is
brought upon a contract for the direct payment of money;
and in all other cases shall hear the proofs and give judgment in accordance with the pleadings and proofs. Where
all the defendants served with process shall have appeared,
or some of them have appeared and the remaining defendants have made default, the Justice may proceed to try the
cause, or, upon good cause shown by either party, may iix

the day for trial on any subsequent day not more than ten

days thereafter.

Amended statutes 1867-8, 550.
1. A Justice of the Peace cannot make a summons returnable in eleven
da s after service. Deidesheimer v. Brown, 8 Cal. 339.

. In a suit commenced before a Justice of the Peace, if the summons be
returned by the officer, with his indorsement thereon that no service has been
made because defendant cannot be found, and on the return day thereof it is
further made to appear by affidavit that the defendant conceals himself to
avoid service of process, the suit does not thereb abate, but the magistrate
may continue the cause, issue a new summons, an make an order for its service by publication, and fix the return day of the new summons at a time
snmciently remote to have the service by publication completed before the
return day, even if the period between the issuance of the new summons and
its return day exceeds ten days. Seaver v. Fitzgerald, 23 Cal. 86.

3. In such case, when an attachment is regularly issued by the Justice, at

the time of the issuance of the &rst summons, the attachment is not vitiated
by the failure to serve the first summons, and the issuance of a second one;
nor is the validity of attachment in any way anected by the proceedings. Id.
4. Where the summons is required to be published, it ma be made returnable ?ore8t181an ten days from its date, but not otherwise. isler v. Carr et 411.,
an. . 1 6 .

§ 542. Service of summons.

The summons shall be served by the Sheriff or a Constable of the county, as follows:

1st. If the action be against a corporation, by delivery
of a copy to the President or other head of the corporation,
or to the Secretary, Cashier, or Managing Agent thereof;
or when no such officer resides in the county, to a Director
resident therein ;

2d. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years,
by delivery of a copy to such minor, and also to his father,
mother, or guardian; or if there be none within the county,
then to any person having the care or control of such minor,
or with whom he resides, or in whose service he is;

3d. If against a person judicially declared to be of unsound mind, or incapable of conducting his own affairs, and
for whom a guardian has been appointed, by delivery of a
copy to such guardian;

4th. In all other cases, by delivery of a copy to the defendant personally.

See M304.

1. A summons issued from a Justice of the Peace at the suit of plaintiff
against Adams & Co., which was returned served by “leaving a copy thereof
with Capt. Charles D. Macy:” Held, that a judgment by default would not
bind Adams & Co., and there is nothing in the record to connect Macy with
them. Adams v. Town, 3 Cal. 248.

2. Constables may appoint deputies. flhylor v. Brown, 4 Cal. 188.

3. A constable has no power to execute process out of his township. Love
v. Alexander, 15 Cal. 290.

§ 543. ‘Service by publication.

When the person upon whom the service is to be made resides out of the State, or has departed from the State, or cannot after due diligence be found within the State, or conceals
himself to avoid the service of summons, and the fact shall appear, by affidavit, to the satisfaction of the Justice, and it shall,
in like manner, appear that a cause of action exists against
the defendant in respect to whom the service is to be made,

the Justice shall grant an order that the service be made by the
publication of the summons; the order shall direct the publication to be made in a newspaper, to be designated as most
likely to give notice to the person to be served, and for such
length of time as may be deemed reasonable, at least one" a
week; provided, that publication against a defendant residing
out of the State, or absent therefrom, shall not be less than
three months. The service of summons shall be deemed complete at the expiration of the time prescribed by the order of
publication; the Justice shall also direct a copy of the summons to be forthwith deposited in the post-office, directed to
the person to be served at his place of residence.

‘Amended 1854, 95; see ante, M 30, 31.

1. In a suit commenced before a Justice of the Peace, if the summons be
returned by the officer with his indorsement thereon, that no service has been
made because defendant cannot be found. and on the return day thereof it is
further made to appear by affidavit that the defendant conceals himself to
avoid service of process, t e suit does not thereby abate, but they may continue the cause. issue a new summons, and make an order for its service by
publication, and fix the return day of the new summons at a time sufficiently
remote to have the service by publication completed before the return day,
even if the period between the issuance of the new summons and its return
da exceeds ten days. Slaver v. Fitzgerald, 23. Cal. 86.

. In such case, when an attachment is regularly issued by the Justice, at
the time of the issuance of the first summons, the attachment is not vitiated
by the failure to serve the nrst summons. and the issuance of a second one ;
nor is the validity of attachment in any way aifected by the proceedings. Id.

3. The affidavit must show that a cause of action exists in favor of plaintifff
and inst defendant. Hisler v. Carr et al., Jan. T. 1868.

4. e affidavit stated that the “ defendant, D. C. Seaver, was at the time
a resident of the first township in the county of Contra Costa; that he had
occupied a house on a tract of land claimed to be his own, and which he had
cultivated up to the commencement of the suit, and fora long time previous ;
that on the twenty-second day of October, the day before the commencement
of the suit, he left his residence, informing his servant that he would be back
that evening or the next day ; that the summons in the suit was put in the
hands of a pro r constable, who made diligent search and was unable to
serve it; that eaver had not returned to his residence, and that he believed
that he concealed himself for the purpose of avoiding the service of the summons, and the claim sued on is a Just debt." Seaver v. Fitzgerald, 23 Cal. 86.

5. Held, to be sumcient to authorize the service by publication, and when
publication made. to give the Court jurisdiction. I .

6. A summons issued from a Justice's Court may be made returnable more
than ten days from its date. where service by publication is required. Where
the affidavit fails to show that a cause of action exists in favor of the plaintiff against the defendant, the J ustioe has no power to extend the return day
beyond ten days from its date. In such a case, the summons is void. and an
attachment issued in the action must also fail. I1 isler v. Carr, Jan. T. 1868.

7. An order of publication of summons. made by a Justice, need not state
that the pa er designated is the one most likely to give notice to the person
to be serve . Seaver v. Fitzgerald, 23 Cal. 86.

8. The publication of summons may be proved by the affidavit of the clerk
of the pu lisher of the paper ; and the fact that the summons was de sited
in a postoffice, may also be proved by affidavit; nor is it necessary t at the

constable state in his return on the summons that such publication was made,
and such deposit made in the postoffice. Id.

§ 544. Order of arrest, and arrest of defendant.

An order to arrest the defendant may be endorsed on a summons issued by the Justice, and the defendant may be arrested
thereon by the Sheriff or Constable, at the time of serving
the summons, and brought before the Justice, and there detained until duly discharged in the following cases, arising
after the passage of this Act:

1st. In an action for the recovery of money, or damages, on
a cause of action arising upon contract, express or implied,
when the defendant is about to depart from the State, with intent to defraud his creditors; or where the action is for a
willful* injury to the person, or for taking, detaining, or injuring personal property ;

2d. In an action for a line or penalty, or for money or property embezzled, or fraudulently misapplied, or converted to
his own use by an attorney, factor, broker, agent, or clerk, in
the course of his employment as such, or by any other person
in a fiduciary capacity;

3d. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in contracting the debt, or incurring the obligation for which the
action is brought;

4th. When the defendant has removed, concealed, or disposed of his property, or is about to do so, with intent to

defraud his creditors. But no female shall be arrested in any
action.

§ 545. A_§idavz't and undertaking for order cf arrest.

Before an order for an arrest shall be made, the party
applying shall prove to the satisfaction of the Justice, by the
affidavit of himself or some other person, the facts on which
the application is founded. The plaintifff shall also execute
and deliver to the Justice a written undertaking, with two or
more sureties, to the effect that if the defendant recover judgment, the plaintifff will pay to him all costs that may be
awarded to the defendant, and all dam es which he may sustain by reason of the arrest, not excee g the sum specilied

in the undertaking, which shall be at least two hundred
dollars. ‘

§ 546. A defendant arrested shall be taken before the Justice
immediately.

The defendant, immediately upon being arrested, shall be
taken to the office of the Justice who made the order, and
if he be absent or unable to try the action, or if it be made
to appear to him by the affidavit of defendant, that he
18 a material witness in the action, the oiiicer shall immediately take the defendant before the next Justice of the city
or township, who shall take cognizance of the action, and
proceed thereon, as if the summons had been issued and

the order of arrest made by him.
See 5 582.

§ 547. The ojlcer shall give notice to the plaintiff of the arrest.

The officer making the arrest shall immediately give notice thereof to the plaintifff, or his attorney or agent, and
endorse on the summons, and subscribe a certificate, stating
the time of serving the same, the time of the arrest, and of
his giving notice to the plaintifff.

§ 548. The ojicer shall detain the defendant until duly discharged. '

The officer making the arrest shall keep the defendant in
custody until duly discharged by order of the Justice.

§ 549. Defendant may demand trial immediately.

The defendant under arrest, on his appearance with the
officer, may demand a trial immediately; and upon such
demand being made, the trial shall not be delayed beyond
three hours, except by the trial of another action pending
at the time; or he may have an adjournment, and be discharged on giving bail, as provided in the next section. An
adjournment at the request of the plaintifff, beyond three

hours, shall discharge the defendant from arrest, but the _

action may proceed, notwithstanding; and the defendant
shall be subject to arrest on the execution, in the same

manner as if he had not been so discharged.
See § 582.’

§550. Adjournment on motion of defendant shall be granted
on filing undertaking.

If the defendant on his appearance demand an adjournment, the same shall be granted, on condition that he execute and file with the Justice an undertaking, with two or
more sufficient sureties, to be approved by the Justice, to
the effect that he will render himself amenable to the process of the Court during the pendency of the action, and
such as may be issued to enforce the judgment therein; or
that the sureties will pay to the plaintifff the amount of any
judgment which he may recover in the action. On tiling
the undertaking specified in this section, the Justice shall
order the defendant to be discharged from custody.

§551. ‘Attachment against property of defendant may be
made in certain cases.

In an action upon a contract, express or implied, made
after the passage of this Act, for the direct payment of
money, which contract is made or is payable in this State,

and is not secured by mortgage, lien, or pledge upon real or
personal property, the plaintifff, at the time of issuing the

summons, or at any time afterwards, may have the property
of the ‘defendant attached as security for the satisfaction of
any judgment that may be recovered, unless the defendant

give security to pay such judgment, as hereinafter provided.

‘Amended Stat. 1858, 154; 1860, 304.

1. An attachment may be issued on a debt contracted at any time since the
passagclal of the Practice Act, A ril 29th, 1851. O'Connor v. Blake, 29 Cal. 312.

2. e words made after e assage of this act, in the act concerning
attachments, are not limited to de ts contracted after the amendment of the
act in 1860, but refer to the act as assed in 1851. Id.

3. When an oiiicer, by virtue o a second attachment, levies on roperty
already in his possession by virtue of a former attachment, it is o y necessary for him to return that he has attached the interest of the defendant in
the property then in his possession. Id.

4. In case of a dismissal of an action by a Justice of the Peace for nonappearance of the plaintifff, the judgment for defendant operates as a dissolution of an attachment, although the Justice reinstates the case and the
parties appear and try it. Id.

5. In a suit commenced before a Justice of the Peace, if the summons be
returned by the officer, with his endorsement thereon, that no service hasbeen
made because defendant cannot be found, and on the return day thereof it is
further made to appear b affidavit that the defendant conceals himself to
avoid service of process, t e suit does not thereby abate, but the magistrate
may continue the cause, issue a new summons, and make an order for its
service b publication, and fix the return day of the new summons at a time
sumcien y remote to have the service by publication completed before the
return day, even if the period between the issuance of the new summons and
its return day exceeds ten days. Scaver v. Fitzgerald, 23 Cal. 85.

6. In such case when an attachment is regularly issued by the Justice at the

time of the issuance of the first summons, the attachment is not vitiated by the
failure to serve the first summons and the issuance of a second one, nor is the

validit of the attachment in any way affected by the proceedings. Id.
7. ll ere the summons is unauthorized and void, the attachment must fall also.

Hisler v. Carr et al., Jan. T. 1868.

§ 552. ‘ Writ of attachment shall issue upon ajidavit.

A writ to attach the property of the defendant shall be
issued by the Justice, on receiving an aiiidavit by or on behalf of the plaintifff, showing the same facts as are required
to be shown by the aiiidavit speciiied in section one hundred

and twenty-one of this Act.

‘Amended 1858, 154.

1. This section was not amended so as to authorize an attachment upon a
contract made prior to the passage of this act, or against nonresidents, as in

section one hundred and twenty.

§ 553. ‘ Undermking an attachment shall be required. (a)

Before issuing the writ, the Justice shall require a written undertaking on the part of the plaintifff, with two or
more sufiicient sureties, to the effect that if the defendant
recover judgment, the plaintifff will pay all costs that may
be awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he may

sustain by reason of the attachment.

‘Amended 1858, 154; 1860, 305.

1. If a Justice issue an attachment, and take bond in a suit for a sum exceeding his jurisdiction, the proceedings are void, and no action lies on the bond.
Benedict v. Bray, 2 Cal. 251.

2. Where the undertaking or statement is conditioned to pay all damages,
etc.. not exceeding a certain sum, the attachment is unauthorized and void.

Hisler v. Carr, Jan. T. 1868.
3. The Practice Act, section five hundred and fiity—three, requires an undertaking to the effect that laintiii’ will pay all damages, etc., without any limitation as to the amount. he attachment is unauthorized and void, unless issued

in substantial conformity with the provisions of the statute. Id.

§ 554. Writ of attachment, substance of. Ojicer may take an
undertaking instead of levying.
The writ may be directed to the Sheriff or any Constable

of the county, and shall require him to attach and safely
keep all the [property of the defendant] within his county,

 

(1.) emu-. 1863-4, p. 423.

(a) 8:0. 1. In all civil cases arising in Justices’ Courts, wherein an undertaking is required as
prescribed in section twenty-eight of an Act entitled an Act t r regulate proce» dings in civil
cases in Courts of Ju~tice in this State. passed April twemy-eighth. eighteen hundred and
sixty. and sections five hundred and forty-five(5-15) and five hundred and titty (550) of an
Act entitled an Act to regulate proceedings in civil cases in Courts of Justice in this 8
passed May tifteenth. eighteen hundred and fifty-four, the plaintid or defendant may deposi
with said Justice a sum of money equal to the amount required by said undertaking, which

said sum of money shall be taken as security in place of said undertaking.

not exempt from execution, or so much thereof as may be
sufficient to satisfy the plaintiff’s demand, the amount of
which shall be stated in conformity with the complaint,
unless the defendant give him security by the undertaking
of two sufiicient sureties, in an amount sufficient to satisfy
such demand besides costs; in which case, to take such
undertaking.

§ 555. Certain preceding provisions shall apply to attachments
in Justices’ Courts.

The sections of this act, from section one hundred and
twenty-four to section one hundred and torty-one, both

inclusive, shall be applicable to attachments issued in Justices’ Courts; the word “ Constable ” being substituted for
the word “ Sheriff,” whenever the writ is directed to a
Constable, and the word “ Justice ” being substituted for
the word “ Judge.”

§ 556. Plaintzf may réplevy personal property.

The plaintifff, in an action to recover the possession of
personal property, may, at the time of issuing the summons,
or at any time before answer, claim the delivery of such
property to him, as provided in this chapter.

See ante, § 20a

§ 557. A jidavit in replevin.

When a delivery is claimed, an affidavit shall be made by
the plaintifff, or by some one in his behalf, showing:

1st. That the plaintifff is the owner of the property
claimed (particularly describing it), or is lawfully entitled to
the possession thereof;

2d. That the property is wrongfully detained by the
defendant;

3d. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, according
to his best knowledge, information and belief;

4th. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment or fine, pursuant to statute; or seized under an execution, on an attachment against the property of the plaintifff,
or if seized, that it is by statute exempt from such seizure;
and

5th. The actual value of the property.

   
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
   

§ 558. The Justice shall order to replevy the property upon
receiving an undertaking. _

The Justice shall thereupon, by an indorsement in writing upon the affidavit, order the Sheriff or a Constable of
the county to take the same from the defendant, and deliver
it to the plaintifff, upon receiving the undertaking mentioned in the following section.

§ 559. Undertaking in replevin. Theojizer shall serve the
ajidavzt, order and undertaking on the defendant.

Upon receipt of the atiidavit and order, with a written
undertaking, executed by two or more sufficient sureties,
approved by the officer, to the effect that they are bound in
double the value of the property as stated in the
affidavit for the prosecution of the action, for the return of
the property to the defendant, if return thereof be adjudged,
and for the payment to him of such sum as may, for any
cause, be recovered against the plaintifff, the officer shall
forthwith take the property described in the affidavit, if it
be in the possession of the defendant or his agent, and
retain it in his custody. He shall also, without delay, serve
on the defendant a copy of the affidavit, order and undertaking, by delivering the same to him personally, if he can

be found within the county, or to his agent from whose possession the property is taken; or if neither can be found
within the county, by leaving them at the ‘usual place of
abode of either within the county, with some person of
suitable age and discretion; or if neither have any known
place of abode within the county, by putting them into the
nearest post-office, directed to the defendant.

§560. Defendant may except to the sureties. The «mic-er
shall be responsible until the sureties justify.

The defendant may, within two days after the service of
a copy of the aiiidavit and undertaking, give notice to the
officer that he excepts to the sufliciency of the sureties; if
he fails to do so, he shall be deemed to have waived all
objection to them. When the defendant excepts, the sureties shall justify on notice before the Justice; and the oth  

 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    

cer shall be responsible for the suiliciency of the sureties
until the objection to them is either waived, as above provided, or until they justify. If the defendant except to the
sureties, he cannot reclaim the property as provided in the
next section.

§ 561. The defendant may within two days require a return
of the property.

At any time before the delivery of the property to the plaintifff, the defendant may, if he do not except to the sureties of
the plaintifff, require the return thereof, upon giving to the
officer a written undertaking, executed by two or more sulficient sureties, to the effect that they are bound in double the
value of the property, as stated in the affidavit of the plaintin,
for the delivery thereof to the plaintifff, if such delivery be
adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as may
for any cause he recovered against the defendant. If a return
of the property be not so required within two days after the
taking and service of notice to the defendant, it shall be delivered to the plaintifff, except as provided in this chapter.

§ 562. Defendant's sureties shall justify. Ojicer to be responsible until such justification.

The defendant's sureties, upon reasonable notice to the plaintifff, shall justify before the Justice; and upon such justification, the oiiicer shall deliver the property to the defendant.
The officer shall be responsible for the defendant’s sureties until
they justify, or until the justification is completed or expressly
waived, and may retain the property until that time; but if
they, or others in their place fail to justify at the time appointed, he shall deliver the property to the plaintifff.

§ 563. If the property be concealed, duty of the oyicer.

If the property or any part thereof be concealed in a building or enclosure, the officer shall publicly demand its delivery;
and if it be not delivered, he shall cause the building or enclosure to be broken open, and takejthe property into his possession.

564. The oyicer shall deliver the property to the party entitled thereto.

 

    
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
   

When the officer shall have taken property, as in this chapter provided, he shall keep it in a secure place, and deliver it
to the party entitled thereto, upon receiving his lawful fees
for taking and his necessary expenses for keeping the same.

§ 565. Claim of the property by a third party, proceedings
upon.

If the property taken be claimed by any other person
than the defendant or his agent, and such person make affidavit of his title thereto, or right to the possession thereof,
stating the grounds of such title or right, and serve the
same upon the officer, the oilicer shall not be bound to keep
the property, or deliver it to the plaintifff, unless the plaintifff,
on demand of him or his agent, indemnify the oiiicer
against such claim, by an undertaking, executed by two
sufiicient sureties, accompanied by their aiiidavits, that they
are each worth double the value of the property as speciiied
in the affidavit of the plaintifff, over and above their debts
and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution,
and are freeholders or householders of the county; and no
claim to such property by any other person than the defendant or his agent shall be valid against the ofdcer, unless so
made.

§ 566. The ojicer shall return the order and ajidavit within
five days.
The officer shall return the order and affidavit, with his
proceedings thereon, to the Justice Within five days after taking the property mentioned therein. § 567. Qualification of sureties in this chapter.
The qualification of sureties on the several undertakings

required by this chapter, shall be as follows:
1st. Each of them shall be a resident and householder or

freeholder within the county;

2d. Each shall be worth double the amount stated in the
undertaking, over and above all his debts and liabilities,
exclusive of property exempt from_execution.

§ 568. Manrzer of justzfication of sureties.

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
     
    
   
    
    
    
   
     
    
 

 

For the purpose of justification, each of the sureties shall
attend before the Justice at the time mentioned in the notice, and may be examined on oath, on the part of the adverse party, touching his sufiiciency, in such manner as the
Justice in his discretion, may think proper. The examination shall be reduced to writing, and subscribed by the
sureties,- if required.

§ 569. Examination to be annexed to the undertaking.

If the Justice 'find the sureties sufficient, he shall annex
the examination to the undertaking, endorse his allowance
thereon, and file the same, and the officer shall thereupon be
exonerated from liability.

T I T L E L V .
CHAPTER III.—Pleadings and trial.

Sncrxox 570. Pleadings in Justices’ Courts.

571. Pleadings, in what cases to be in writing or oral.

572. Pleadings, manner of presenting and form of.

573. Complaint, contents of. ‘

574. Answer, contents of.

575. Statelmxepatl of insumcient knowledge, etc., shall be deemed

a e .
576. Manner of pleading a written instrument.
577. If a copy ol an instrument be mod, the signatures will be
deemed admitted, unless denied under oath.
578. Demurrer to pleadings in Justices’ Courts.
579. Variance between the proof and the allegations in a plead: .

580. Amggdment of pleadings.

581. Title to real estate cannot be questioned before a Justice.
Such cases shall be certified to the District Court.

582. Change of venue in certain cases. Adjournment on demand of a jury.

583. Adjournment not to exceed ten days.

584. Adjournment not to exceed four months for same cause.

585. No continuance for more than ten days shall be granted,
unless upon tiling undertaking.

586. Failure of either party to appear, efect of.

587. Trial by jury. Summo ' jury.

588. Empanneling the jury. umber necessary to compose a

589. If i9.us1;-uzmcient number of jurors do not attend, others shall
be summoned.

590. Challenges to jurors.

§ 570. Pleadings in Justices’ Charts.
The pleadings in Justices’ Courts shall be:

 

 

1st. The complaint by the plaintifff, stating the cause or
action;

2d. The answer by the defendant, stating the ground of
the defense.

1. The rule, a penal statute, must be declared upon by the party seekin a
recovery under it, does not apply to pleadin in Justices’ Courts. 0’ allagluzn v. Booth, 6 Cal. 66; Hart v. Moon. Id. 1 1.

2. Where the complaint in a Justice's Court, in addition to a good cause of
action, contains averments and prays relief respecting matmrs not within the
{zfisdiction of the Court, the action should not for that reason be dismissed,

t the Court should direct an amendment and disregard the objectionable
matter. Howard v. Valentine, 20 Cal. 282.

§ 571. Pleadings, in what cases to be in writing or oral.

The pleading shall be in writing, and verified by the oath
of the party, his agent or attorney, when the action is:

1st. For the foreclosure of any mortgage, or the enforcement of any lien on personal property;

2d. For a forcible or unlawful entry upon, or a forcible or
unlawful detention of lands, tenements, or other possessions ;

3d. To recover possession of a “mining claim.” In other

cases the pleadings may be oral or in writing.
See Amendments to the Constitution, 1862.

§ 572. Pleadings, manner of presenting, and form of.

When the pleadings are oral, the substance of them shall
be entered by the Justice in his docket; when in writing
they shall be filed in his office, and a reference to them made
in the docket. Pleadings shall not be required to be in any
particular form, but shall be such as to enable a person of '

common understanding to know what is intended.

I. It is not the policy of the law to condne parties to any nice strictness in
pleading, particularly before Justices of the Peace; accordingly, when a party,
instead of demurring for informality,’ oes to trial, it must be considered as
cured by the verdict. Cronise v. Carg ' , 4 Cal. 120.

2. Pleading in Justices’ Courts construed with great liberality; and if the
facts stated be snmcient to show the nature of the claim or defense, nothing

further is required. To reverse a judgment had in such Courts for defects in
the complaint, the defects should be such as were calculated to mislead the
adverse party. Stuart v. Lander, 16 Cal. 372.

§ 573. Complaint, contents of.

The complaint shall state in a plain and direct manner the
facts constituting the cause of action.

1. A _note. with the proper indorsements thereon. filed with a Justice of the
Peace, 18 a sumcient complaint. Hamztton v. McDonald, 18 Cal. 128.

§ 574. Answer, contents of.

The answer may contain a denial of any of the material
facts stated in the complaint, which the defendant believes to
be untrue, and also a statement, in a plain and direct manner,
of any other facts constituting a defense, or a counterclaim,
upon which an action may be brought by the defendant
against the plaintifff in a Justices’ Court.

1. An answer in a Justice's Court, denying generally the allegations of the
com laint, conforms substantially to section five hundred and seventy-four of

the actice Act. 'Sulhvan v. Cary, 17 Cal. 80.
2. Where a defendant appears for the purpose of taking advantage of

irregular summons by motion to dismiss, it does not amount to a waiver of
his ' hts so as to cure the defect. Deidesheimer v. Brown, 8 Cal. 339.

3. or does he waive his rights by answering after moving to dismiss, and
motion overruled. Id. Gray v. Hawes, Id. 56 .

4. Though the Civil Practice Act provides that pleadings in J ustices' Courts
must in some cases be veriiied, yet it does not require that the answer should
deny specihcally the allegations in the complaint; a general denial will be
suilicient. M intum v. Burr, 20 Cal. 49.

5. The objection to the jurisdiction on the ground of excess of value of the
subject in controversy, is properly taken by answer; and when so taken,
should be determined before proceeding to hear the merits of the action.

&nall v. Gwin, 6 Cal. 447.
6. Act does not require the answer to a verified complaint in an action in a

J ustice‘s Court to controvert specihcally the material allegations of such
complaint. It is snmcient if the answer deny the material allegations, either

general! or specifically. M inturn v. Burr, 20 Cal. 48.
7. A efendant in a ustice’s Court cannot set up a counterclaim for a sum

exceeding three hundred dollars. Maayleld v. Johnson. 30 Cal. 545.

§ 575. Statement of insujicient knowledge, etc., shall be deemed
a denial.
A statement in an answer that the party has not sufficient

knowledge or information in respect to a particular allegation
in the previous pleading of the adverse party to form a belief, shall be deemed equivalent to a denial.

§ 576. Manna of pleading a written instrument.
When the cause of action or counterclaim arises upon an

i account or instrument for the payment of money only, it shall

be sufficient for the party to deliver a copy of the account or
instrument to the Court, and to state that there is due to him

thereupon, from the adverse party, a specified-sum, which he
claims to recover or set off. The Court may, at the time of
the pleading, require that the original account or instrument
be exhibited to the inspection of the adverse party, and a
copy to be furnished; or if it be not so exhibited and a copy
furnished, may prohibit its being afterwards given in evidence.

1. A note, with the proper indorsementa thereon, died with a Justice of the
Peace, is a snmcient complaint. Hamilton v. McDonald, 18 Cal. 128.

2. A Justice of the Peace has no jurisdiction to pass upon a counterclaim,
or set-on‘, unless it be for such a sum as the defendant might have maintained
iéiapn action against the plaintiff in a Justice's Court. Maison v. Vaughn. 23

. 6 . ’
§ 577. 1/ a copy of an instrument be yiled, the signature thereon will be deemed admitted, unless denied under oath.

If the plaintifff annex to his complaint, or file with the
Justice at the time of issuing the summons, a copy of the
promissory note, hill of exchange, or other written obligation
for the payment of money upon which the action is brought,
the defendant shall be deemed to admit the genuineness of
the signatures of the makers, indorsers, or assignors thereof,
unless be specifically deny the same in his answer, and verify
the answer by his oath.

‘Amended 1854., 96.

§ 578. Demurrer to pleadings in Justices’ Courts.

Either party may object to a pleading of his adversary, or
to any ‘part thereof, that it is not sufficiently explicit to enable him to understand it, or that it contains no cause of
action or defense, although it be taken as true. If the Court
deem the objection well founded, it shall order the pleading
to be amended, and if the party refuse to amend, the defective pleading shall he disregarded.

1. It isnot the policy of the law to coniine parties to any nice strictness in
pleading, particularly before Justices of the Peace. Accordingly, where a
party, instead of demurring for informality, goes to trial. it must be considered as cured by the verdict. Oroniec v. Oarghill, 4 Cal. 120.

See notes under § 574.

§ 579. Variance between the proof and the allegations in a
pleading.

A variance between the proof on the trial and the allegations in a pleading, shall be disregarded as immaterial, unless

the Court be ‘satisfied that the adverse party has been misled
to his prejudice thereby.

1. Ifthe answer sets up as a defense in an action on a bill of exchange a
total failure of consideration, and the proof shows a ' failure on] , the
variance is not an available one under our practice. v. Vega, 31 C . 383.

§ 580. Amendments of pleadings.
The pleadings may be amended at any time before the

trial, to supply a deficiency or omission, when by such amendment substantial justice will be promoted. If the amendment be made after the issue, and it be made to appear to
the satisfaction of the Court, by oath, that an adjournment
is necessary to the adverse party in consequence of such
amendment, an adjournment shall be granted. The Court
may also, in its discretion, require as a condition of an amendment, the payment of costs to the adverse party, to be fixed
by the Court, not exceeding twenty dollars; but such payment shall not be required unless an adjournment is made
necessary by the amendment; nor shall an amendment be
allowed after a witness is sworn on the trial, when an adjournment thereby will be made necessary.

1. Pleadings in Justices’ Courts are not held to much strictness. Where
 avers he is administrator in fact of_ the intestate, and this is. not
demed in the answer, no further proof of p1a1ntm"s right to sue 18 requisite.‘
Liming v. Gould, 13 Cal. 598. _

2. A Justice of the Peace has the rl ht to allow a complaint to be amended
in all respects, so that the case may determined on its merits; and this,
whether the defect be in the statement of jurisdiction or any other fact. The

test liberality and indulgence should be extended in all such applications.

'nhart v. Buif et al., 11 Ca . 280.

3. This is a privile e which is never denied, whether the question be one
(()}f8iiti4r1l§d.l.cl’.‘l0n or o erwise. Grass Val. Quartz Min. 00. v. Stackhouse, 6

-3.1 It is error to) it-gfuse to allowhacplaintifffmtg strike hqlqltz a  for damages,
wi out regard epurpose w i may ' uence ' .

5. Amendments should be readily allowed whenever they will tend to the
furtherance of justice, and the greatest liberality in this should be
extended to pleadings in Justices’ Courts. Butler v. King, 10 al. 342.

§ 581. ‘Title to real esmte cannot be questioned before a Justice. Such cases shall be eertt/ied to a District Court.

The parties shall not be at liberty to give evidence upon

any question which involves the title or possession of real

property, or the legality of any tax, impost, assessment, toll,
or municipal tine, nor shall any issue presenting such question be tried by said justice ; and if it appear, from the plaintiil"s own showing on the trial, or from the answer of the
defendant, verified by his oath, that the determination of the
action will necessarily involve the question of title or possession to real property, or the legality of any tax, impost,
assessment, toll, or municipal fine, the Justice shall suspend
all further proceedings in the action and certify the pleadings, or if the pleadings be oral, a transcript of the same,
from his docket to the District Court of the County, and from

the time of filing such pleadings or transcript with the
County Clerk, the District Court shall have over the action

the same jurisdiction as if it were commenced therein.

‘Amended 1863-4, 117.

1. Where in a suit in a Justice's Court for damages to real property, the
answer put in issue the ownership of the roperty, and the defendant moved
to transfer the case to the District Court or trial, which motion was refused;
and after trial before the Justice, judgment was rendered for plaintifff, and
the defendant ap ed to the county Court, where the judgment was set
aside, and an 0 er made transferring the case to the District Court, where,
after trial, plaintifff  had judgment: Held, that the coun Court had
authority, under sections nve hundred and eighty-one and three undred and
sixty-seven of the Practice Act, to transfer the case to the District Court; that
the sheet of the appeal to the County Court was to vest it with authority to
make all orders necessary for the determination of the case; and as the case
was to be tried de now, and the County Court was incompetent, under the

statute, to Cl? it, the transfer to the District Court was necessary. Oullen v.
' , 1 Cal. 67.

2. If upon the filing of the defendant's verified answer in a J ustice’s Court
it aplpears in the answer that the determination of the action will necessarily
invo vs a question of title to real property, the cause should be transferred to a
District Court, and when so transferred, the District Court obtains complete

jurisdiction in the premises. Doherty v. Thayer, 31 Cal. 140.

§ 582. ‘ Change of venue in certain cases. Adjournment on
demand of a jury.

If, at any time before the trial, it appear to the satisfaction of the Justice before whom the action is brought, by
aliidavit of either party, that such justice is a material witness for either party, or if either party make affidavit that
he has reason to believe, and does believe, that he cannot
have a fair and impartial trial before such Justice, by rea»
son of the interest, prejudice, or bias of the Justice, the
action may be transferred to some other Justice of the
san1e or a neighboring township; and in case a jury be demanded, and affidavit of either party is made that he cannot
have a fair and impartial trial, on account of the bias or
prejudice of the citizens of the township against him, the
action may be transferred to some other Justice of the
Peace in the county; but only one transfer shall be allowed
to either party. The Justice to whom an action may be
transferred by the provisions of this section, shall have and
exercise the same jurisdiction over the action as if it had
been originally commenced before him. The Justice or-=.
dering the transfer of the action to another Justice, shall
immediately transmit to the latter, on payment by the party

applying of all the costs that have accrued, all the papers
in the action, together with a certified transcript from his
docket of the proceedings therein. The Justice to whom
the case is transferred shall issue a notice, stating the time
and place when and where the trial will take place, which
notice shall be served upon the parties by any officer authorized to serve process in a J ustice’s Court, or by any

person specially deputized by the Justice for that purpose, at
east one day before the tria . ‘
‘Amended 1353, 279 ; 1863, 502.

Upon the return day of the summons, if a jury be
required, or, if the Justice be actually engaged in other
official business, he may adjourn the trial without the consent of either party, as follows:

1st. When a party who is not a resident of the county
is in attendance, the adjournment not to exceed twentyfour hours; when the defendant in attendance is under
arrest, the adjournment not to exceed three hours;

2d. In other cases, not to exceed five days.

1. Where a Justice is interested in the event of a suit, the statute requires
that he should transfer the case before another Justice. Lame v. Gaskms, 5

Cal. 507.
2. A Justices’ Court to which a case has been transferred from another similar Court, ma ' , for cause shown, change the venue. The People a:
rel. Hayley v. Egfd, 22 Cal. 34.

§583. ‘Aciiournment not to exceed ten days for want of material testimony.

The trial may be adjourned by consent, or upon
application of either party, without the consent of the
other, for a period not exceeding ten days, (except as provided in the next section), as follows:

1st. The party asking the adjournment shall, if required
by his adversary, prove by his own oath, or otherwise, that
he cannot, for want of material testimony, which he ex
pects to procure, safely proceed to trial, and shall show in
what respect the testimony expected is material, and that
he has used due diligence to procureuit, and has been unable to do so;

2d. The party asking the adjournment shall also, if
required by the adverse party, consent that the testimony

of any witness of such adverse party, who is in attendance,
be then taken by deposition before the Justice, which shall
accordingly be done, and the testimony so taken may be
read on the trial, with the same effect, and subject to the
same objections as if the witness were produced; but such
objections shall be made at the time of taking the deposition;

3d. The Court may also require the moving party to
state, upon aftidavit the evidence which he expects to obtain, and if the adverse party thereupon admit that such
evidence would be given, and that it be considered as actually given on the trial, or offered and overruled as improper,

the trial shall not be postponed.
‘Amended 1854, 96.

§ 584. ‘Adjournment not to exceed four months, for same
cause.

An adjournment may be had, either at the time of joining
issue, or at any subsequent time to which the case may
stand adjourned, on application of either party, for a period
longer than ten days, but not to exceed four months, from
the time of the return of the summons, upon proof by the
oath of the party, or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the
Justice, that such party cannot be ready for trial before
the time to which he desires an adjournment, for want of
material evidence, particularly describing it, and that the
delay has not been made necessary by any act or negligence
on his part since the action was commenced; that he has
used due diligence to procure the evidence, and has been
unable to do so, and that he expects to procure the evidence
at the time stated by him: provided, that if the adverse
party admit that such evidence would be given, and consent
that it may be considered as given on the trial, or offered

or overruled as improper, the adjournment shall not be had.
‘Amended 1854, 96.

§ 585. No continuance for more than ten days shall be granted,
unless upon filing undertaking.

No adjournment shall be granted for a period longer
than ten days, upon the application of either party, except

\

upon condition that such party file an undertaking, with
sureties, to be approved by the Justice, to the effect that

they will pay to the opposite party the amount of any judgment which may be recovered against the party applying.

§ 586. Failure of either party to appear, ejects of.

[1867-8.] If either party shall fail to appear at the time
fixed for trial, or at the time to which the trial has been
adjourned, the trial may proceed at the request of the adverse party, and judgment shall be rendered in conformity
with the pleadings and proofs.

587. Trial by jury. Summoning jurors.

A trial by jury shall be demanded at the time of joining
issue; and shall be deemed waived if neither party then demand it. When demanded, the trial of the case shall be
adjourned, until a time and place fixed for the return of the
jury. If neither party desire an adjournment, the time and
place shall be determined by the Justice, and shall be on
the same day, or within the next two days. The jury shall
be summoned upon an order of the Justice, from the citizens of the city or township, and not from the bystanders.

§ 588. Empanneling a jury. Number necessary to compose a
jamAt the time appointed for the trial, the Justice shall pro--.ceed to call, from the jurors summoned, the names of the
persons to constitute the jury for the trial of the issue. The

' jury, by consent of the parties, may consist of any number

not more than twelve nor less than three.

§ 589. If a sujicient number of jurors do not attend, others
shall be summoned.

If a sufiicient number of competent and indifferent jurors
do not attend, the Justice shall direct others to be summoned from the vicinity, and not from the bystanders,

sufiicient to complete the jury.

§ 590. Challenges of jurors.
Either party may challenge the jurors. The challenges

shall be either peremptory, or for cause. Each party shall
be entitled to three peremptory challenges. Either party
may challenge for cause, on any grounds set forth in section
one hundred and sixty-two. Challenges for cause shall be
tried by the Justice in a summary manner, who may examine the juror challenged, and Witnesses.

T I T LE L V I .
CHAPTER IV.—Judgment and execution.

Sncnon 591. Judgment of dismissal entered in certain cases without

prejudice.
592. Judgment for plaintin‘ by default.
593. Upon issue joined, the Justice shall try the cause and
render judgment.
594. Entry of judgment, time and manner of.
, 595. If the sum found due exceeds the jurisdiction of the
Justice, the excess may be remitted.
596. Ofer to compromise before trial.
597. Judgment when the defendant is subject to arrest.
598. Costs shall be added to the verdict.
599. Execution issued by the Justice, except when it is to run
out of the county. Judgment liens, how created.
600. Execution may issue at any time within five years.
601 Execution, contents of.

602.. Duty of officer receiving execution. Supplementary proceedings.

§ 591. Judgment of dismissal enteml in certam cases without , '

prejudice.
Judgment that the action be dismissed without prejudice

to a new action, may be entered with costs in the following'

08888 1

1st. When the plaintifff voluntarily dismisses the action
before it is finally submitted;

2d. When he fails to appear at the time specified in the

summons, or upon adjournment, or within one hour thereafter;

3d. When it is objected at the trial, and appears by the
evidence, that the action is brought in the wrong county, or
township, or city; but if the objection be taken and overruled, it shall be cause only of reversal on appeal, and shall

not otherwise invalidate the judgment; if not taken at the
trial, it shall be deemed waived, and shall not be cause of

reversal.

1. Suit brought in Justice’s Court for township No. 5. service on defendant
in township No. 3, by Constable of township No. 3. Defendant appears, and
before filing answer, moves to dismiss the action on the grounds: lst. That
the Court has no jurisdiction of the person of defendant. 2d. That the return
of the officer is insumcient to give jurisdiction. Held, that the motion was
properly denied; that defendant could not thus defeat the whole case in limine
upon the insudlciencies of the record, though the action might be thus dismissed if the facts were shown to be such that the record could not be amended.
Hamilton v. L{cDona1d, 18 Cal. 128.

2. In case of a dismissal of an action by a Justice of the Peace for nono
appearance of the plaintifff, the judgment for defendant operates as a dissolution of an attachment, although the Justice reinstates the case, and the parties
appear and try it. 0’0onner v. Blalce, 27 Cal. 312.

§ 592. Judgment for plaintgf by default.

When the defendant fails to appear and answer, judgment
shall be given for the plaintifff, as follows :

lst. When a copy of the account, note, bill, or other
obligation upon which the action is brought-, was filed with
the Justice at the time the summons was issued, judgment
shall be given without further evidence, for the sum specified
in the summons;

2d. In other cases, the Justice shall hear the evidence of
the plaintifff, and render judgment for such only sumas shall
appear by the evidence to be just ; but in no case exceeding
the amount specified in the summons.

1. A judgment by default rendered in a J ustice’s Court cannot be attacked
collaterally as void for want of jurisdiction of the person of the defendant-—
who was a resident of the count , but not of the township in which the suit was
instituted—when there appears in the record a certificate, indorsed on the summons by the oiiiccr serving it, and filed with the Justice who acted on it, that
the summons was served on the defendant in the township in which suit was
commenced. Fagg v. C’le-ments, 16 Cal. 389.

2. Such certillcats is sutiicient,  facts, to establish the jurisdiction of
the Justice. The objection to the jurisdiction, that defendant did not reside in
the township where suit was brought, should have been taken at the trial ; and
as defendant failed to appear, the judgment is conclusive. Id.

3. Where a summons was issued and served in the morning, by which the
defendants were cited to appear and answer the complaint in the Court of First
Instance, at ten o’clock, and judgment was rendered against them at nine
o’clock in the morning of the same day : Held, that the judgment was irregular, and should be reversed; notwithstanding the Court olfered them permission to come in at a subsequent day and make their defense. Parlcer v. Sheppard, 1 Cal. 131.

§ 598. Upon issue joined, the Justice shall try the cause and
render judgment.

Upon issue joined, if a jury trial he not demanded, the

‘Justice shall hear the evidence, and decide all questions of
fact and of law, and render judgment accordingly.

§ 594. ‘Entry of judgment, time and manner of.

Upon a verdict, the Justice shall immediately render
judgment accordingly. When the trial is by the Justice,
judgment shall be entered immediately after the close of
the trial, if the defendant has been arrested and is still in
custody; in other cases it shall be entered within four days
after the close of the trial. If the action be on a contract
against two or more defendants, and the summons is served
on one or more, but not on all, the judgment shall be entered up only against those who were served, or have
voluntarily appeared, if the contract he a several or a joint
and several contract; but if the contract be a joint contract
only, the judgment shall be entered up against all the defendants, but shall only be enforced against the joint prop‘
erty of all, and the individual property of the defendants
served, or who have voluntarily appeared in the action. In
an action on a contract or obligation in writing for the direct payment of money, made payable in a specified kind of
money or currency, judgment for the plaintifff, whether the
same be by default or after verdict, may follow the contract or obligation, and be made payable in the _kind of
money or currency speciiied__therein.

Amended 1854, 97; 1863, 690. '

1 . When the contract sued on is a joint contract of two defendants, and
judgment is entered up against one only, it is not such error as renders the
judgment void, so that it can be attacked in a collateral proceeding. Seaver
‘V. itzgerald, 32 Cal. 86.

2. A Justice's Court is not a Court of record; it is an inferior Court, and
its jurisdiction must be shown amrmatively b a party relying upon or claiming any right under its judgments; but paro evidence is admissible to show .
that the defendant was within its jurisdiction. Jolley v. Foltz, Oct. T. 1867.

§ 595. If the sum found due exceed the jurisdiction of the Justice, the excess may be remitted.

__ When the. amount found due to either party exceeds the
sum for which the Justice is authorized to enter judgment,
such party may remit the excess, and judgment may be rendered for the residue.

§ 596. Ofer to compromise before trial.

If the defendant at any time before the trial, o&'er in writing
to allow judgment to be taken against him for a specified sum,
the plaintifff may immediately have judgment therefore, with
the costs then accrued; but if he do not accept such offer
before the trial, and fail to recover in the action a sum equal
to the offer, he shall not recover costs, but costs shall be adjudged against him, and if he recover, deducted from his
recovery. But the offer and failure to accept it shall not be
given in evidence to affect the recovery otherwise than as to
costs, as above provided.

§ 597. Judgment when the defendant is under arrest.

When a judgment is rendered in a case where the defendant is subject to arrest and imprisonment thereon, it shall be
so stated in the judgment and entered in the docket.

§ 598. Costs shall be added to the verdict.

When the prevailing party is entitled to costs by this
chapter, the Justice shall add their amount to the verdict;
or in case of a failure of the plaintifff to recover, or in case of
a dismissal of the action, shall enter up judgment in favor of
the ‘defendant for the amount of such costs.

§599. ‘Execution issued by the Justice, except when it is to
judgment liens, how created.

The Justice, on demand of the party in whose favor judgment is rendered, shall give him a transcript thereof, which
may be filed and docketed in the office of the Clerk of the
county where the judgment was rendered. The time of the
receipt of the transcript by the County Clerk shall be noted
by him thereon, and entered in the docket; and from that
time executions may be issued by the County Clerk on such
judgments to the Sheriff of any other county of the State, in
the same manner as upon judgments recovered in the higher
Courts. All process upon judgments recovered in Justices’
Courts, to be executed within the same county, shall be
issued by the Justice or his successors in office. No judgment rendered by a Justice of the Peace shall create any
lien ‘upon any lands of the defendant, unless a transcript
of such judgment, certified by the Justice, be filed and

recorded in the office of the Recorder. When such transcript
is to be filed in any other county than that in which the Justice resides, such transcript shall be accompanied with the
certificate of the County Clerk as to the official character of
the Justice. When so filed and recorded in the office of the
Recorder for any county, such judgment shall constitute a
lien upon, and bind the lands and tenements of the judgment
debtor, situated in the county where such transcript may be
filed and recorded, in favor of such judgment creditor, as if
such judgment had been rendered in the District Court of

such county.

1 Amended 1854, 97.

1. Real estate of a judgment debtor, situated in the county where the judgment before the J ustice of the Peace was rendered, may be sold on execution

n the ju ent, whether a transcript of the judgment be filed in the office
the Recor er of such county or not. Campbell v. Wiclcwane, 19 Cal. 145.

2. No tiling of such transcript with the Recorder is necessary, except as to
property situated in a diferent county. With reference to property in the
same county, the provisions for the enforcement of an execution upon a judgpident in a J ustices’ Court are the same as those relating to District Courts.

3. A judgment rendered by a Justice of the Peace does not become a lien
on the real estate of the judgment debtor until a copy of the judgment, certined by the Justice, has been recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
Baglegly. Ward, 27 Cal. 370.

4. e nling and recording in the Recorder's office of the copies of docket
entries, made by a Justice 0 the Peace, does not constitute the judgment a
lien on the real estate of the judgment debtor. Id. ,

5. The tiling of the transcript of a jud ent of a Justice of the Peace with,
and the docketing of it by the County C erk, do not make it a judgment or
record of the District Court. People v. Doc, 31 Cal. 220.

§ 600. Execution may issue at any time within five years.
Execution for the enforcement of a judgment in a Justice’s
Court, may be issued, on the application of the party entitled

thereto, at any time within five years from the entry of judgment.

1. The loss of the docket of the Justice will not prevent the statute from
' . White v. Clark, 8 Cal. 512.

2. An execution can only be issued upon a judgment obtained before a
Justice of the Peace, within hve years after the entry of the judgment. In
contemplation of the statute, there is no judgment after that time. Id.

"'3. An action will lie on a judgment in a Justice’s Court in this State, even
when the time within which an execution could be issued on such judgment
has ired. Stuart v. Lander, 16 Cal. 372.

4. nless an execution issue within five years, the judgment is void; nor
will the loss of the J ustice’s docket prevent the time from running. White v.
ok§H"i*ii3Csnng“l°512'adocknngt transc e r d dredby

. e ' an e‘ oa rioa'u entrene a
Justice of the Peace in the office of the cleli)-1: of tlie cgiliinty, does not empower the elerk of the Courtin which it is filed and docketed to issue an

execution on the same after nve years have elapsed from the date of its rendition. Kerns v. Graves, 26 Cal. 156.

§ 601. Execution, contents of.

The execution, when issued by a Justice, shall be directed
to the Sheriff or to a Constable of the county, and subscribed
by the Justice by whom the judgment was rendered, or by
his successor in office, and shall bear date the day of its
delivery to the officer to be executed. It shall intelligihly
refer to the judgment, by stating the names of the parties,
and the name of the Justice before whom, and of the county,
and the township, or city where, and the time when it was
rendered; the amount of judgment, if it be for money; and
if less than the whole is due, the true amount due thereon.
It shall contain, in like cases, similar directions to the Sheriii’ or Constable as required by the provisions of Title VII,

of this Act, in an execution to the Sheriff.
1. Under sections six hundred and one and six hundred and two of the Practice

m, ‘may serve an execution out of his township. Lafantaine v.
§ 602. ‘Duty of ojicer receiving execution. Supplementary
proceedings. .

The Sheriff or Constable to whom the execution is directed, shall proceed to execute the same in the same manner as the Sheriff is required by the provisions of Title
VII, of this Act, to proceed upon executions directed’ to
him; and the Constable, when the execution is directed to
him, shall be vested for that purpose with all the powers of
the Sheriff, and, after issuing an execution, and either before or after its return, (if the same be returned unsatisfled
either in whole or in part), the judgment creditor shall be
entitled to an order from the Justice, requiring the judgment debtor to attend at a time to be designated in the
order, and answer concerning his property before such Justice, and the attendance of such debtor may be enforced
by the Justice. On his attendance, such debtor may be examined under oath concerning his property, and any per.
son alleged to have in his hands property, monies, effects
or credits of the judgment debtor may also be required to
attend and be examined, and the Justice may order any

property in the hands of the judgment debtor, or any
other person, not exempt from execution, belonging to such
debtor, to be applied towards the satisfaction of the judgment; and the Justice may enforce such order by imprisonment until complied with, but no judgment debtor or other

person shall be required to attend before the Justice out of
the county in which he resides.

‘Amended 1854, 98.

1. Where property is levied on by a constable or sherin, by virtue of an
attachment or execution, as the property of the defendant in e suit, and is
claimed by a third party, and 8] is called to try the right of property under the claim, and the verdict of e jury is against the claimant, this verdict
is no protection to the officer in suit brought against him b the claimant,
n3; is it admissible in evidence as a defense. Sheldon at al. v. is, 28 Cal.
1

2. Under sections six hundred and one and six hundred and two of the

Practice Act, a constable magi;-erve an execution out of his township. Infantainc v. Greene et a1., 17 Cal.

TITLE LVII.

CHAPTER V.—G'eneral provzlsions.

81011011 603. The provisions of this act referred to in this title only shall
apply to Justices’ Courts.

604. Justices’ docket, contents of. '

606. Entries therein shall be under the title of the action.
The docket shall be primary evidence of the facts it
contains.

606. An index to the docket shall be 1: t.

607. Dockets shall be delivered by the ustice to his successor,
or to the county clerk.

608. A Justice maymissue execution, or other process, upon the
docket of ' predecessor.

609. Successor of a Justice, who shall be deemed.

610. If two Justices might be deemed successor, the County
Judge shall designate one.

611. Blanks shall be filled in all papers issued by a Justice, except sub nas.

612. In case of 'sabili of a Justice, another Justice may attend on his be .

613. The Justice may depute a person to serve a summons or
execution; Justice liable for acts of such deputy.

614. Authori and obligtions of depu .

615. A consta le, after e e iration o his term, may execute
nnal process previou y commenced.

616. Contem ts, a Justice may furnish for.

617. Pmcee£ngs and punishment for contempts.

618. The conviction shall be entered in the docket.

619. Justices may issue subpmnas and final process to any part
of the counéy.

620. Provisions of itle XI applicable to Justices’ Courts.

Samoa 621. Mining claims, actions concerning, shall be governed by
theusuagesof thebaror ' ' .
622. A nelwlv trial may be granted in certain cases.
623. App ‘cation or new tria .
624. Ap8:als frgx: a judgment of a Justice may be taken to a
ty

un urt.
625. Party appealing on uestions of law alone shall prepare
a statement. Se ement of statement.
626. If the appeal he on questions of fact, or law and fact,no
statement need be made.
627. Upon the agopeal the Justice shall transmit the case to the
County urt.
628. Undertaking on a  Justidcation of sureties.
629. On  undertsgng, execution shall be stayed.
630. Repeal .

631. Costa allowed to prevailing party.

632. Repealed.

633. Money collected by constable or sherii shall}be paid over

to the Justice.
634. Justice may require security for costs.
635. Preceding sections applicable to Justices’ Courts.

§ 603. ‘The provisions of this Act referred to in this title only
shall be applicable to Justices’ Courts.

Those provisions of this act which are referred to
in this title, and no other, shall, in addition to the
provisions embraced in this title, be applicable to Justices’ Courts and proceedings therein.
‘Amended 1853, 280; 1854, 98.

§ 604. ‘Justices’ docket, contents of.

Every Justice shall keep a book denominated a “ docket,”
in which he shall enter:

1st. The title of every action or proceeding;

2d. The object of the action or proceeding, and if a sum
of money be claimed, the amount of the demand; '

3d. The date of the summons, and the time of its return;
and if an order to arrest the defendant be made, or a writ
of attachment be issued, a statement of these facts;

4th. The time when the parties or either of them appear,
or their non-appearance, if default be made; a minute of
the pleadings and motions; if in writing, referring to
them; if not in writing, a concise statement of the material parts of the pleadings, and of all motions made during
the trial by either party, and his decisions thereon;

5th. Every adjournment, stating on Whose application,
whether on oath, evidence, or consent, and to what time ;

6th. The demand for a trial by jury, when the same is
made, and by whom made, the order for the jury, and the

time appointed for the trial and return of the jury ;

7th. The names of the jury, who appear and are sworn,
the names of all witnesses sworn, and at whose request ;

8th. The verdict of the jury, and when received; if the
jury disagree and are discharged, the fact of such disagreement and discharge ;

9th. The judgment of the Court, specifying the costs included and the time when rendered;

10. The issuing of the execution, when issued and towhom,
the renewals thereof, if any, and when made, and a statement of any money paid to the Justice, and when and by
whom;

11th. The receipt of a notice of appeal, if any be given,
and of the appeal bond, if any be filed.

‘Amended 1856, 197.

1. The failure of a Justice of the Peace to state in his docket that the summons was returned “ served,” will not vitiate the ju ent on appeal. The
fact of service may be shown by the return of the 0 car on the summons.
Denmark v. Liming, 10 Cal. 93.

2. The record of the proeeedin in a Justice's Court, in which judgment
was rendered, must amrmatively ow that the suit was brought in the proper
township, or the proceedings are coram non judice and void; and the failure
of defendant, after summons served, to appear and object that suit was

brought in the wrong township, is no waiver of the objection. Lowe v. Alec!»ander, 15 Cal. 296.

3. The recital in the docket of a Justice, who had rendered judgment, that
the summons was “ returned duly served," is of no weight to prove proper
service of the summons. The return of the officer is as much a part of the
record as the docket itself ; and if the return fail to show sumcient service,
the recital being based on the return alone, amounts to nothing more than
the opinion of the Justice, and cannot be relied on to give validity to the
judgment. Id.; Rowley v. Howard, 23 Id. 403.

§605. Entries therein shall be under the title of the action.
The docket shall be primary evidence of the facts it contains.

The several particulars of the last section specified shall
be entered under the title of the action to which they relate,
and at the time when they occur. Such entries in a J ustice’s
docket, or a transcript thereof, certified by the Justice or his
successor in office, shall be primary evidence to prove the
facts so stated therein.

1. A Justice’s docket is only primary evidence, and its omissions may be
supplied from other sources when necessary. Blair v. Hamilton, 32 Cal. 49.

§ 606. An index to the docket shall be kept.

A Justice shall keep an alphabetical index to his (locket,
in which shall be entered the names of the parties to each
judgment, with a reference to the page of entry. The names
of the plaintifffs shall be entered in the index, in the alpha-betical order of the first letter of the family name.

§ 607. ‘Dockets shall be delivered by the Justice to his successor, or to the County Clerk.

It shall be the duty of eve y Justice of the Peace, upon
the expiration of his term of office, to deposit with his successor his oilicial dockets and all papers filed in his office, as
well his own as those of his predecessors, or any other which
may be in his custody to be kept as public records. If the
office of a Justice become vacant by his death or removal
from the township or city, or otherwise, before his successor
is elected and qualified, the docket and papers in possession
of such Justice shall be deposited in the office of some other

, Justice in the township, to be by him delivered to the successor of said Justice: and while in his possession, he may
issue execution on a judgment there entered and unsatisiied,
in the same manner and with the same effect as the Justice
by whom the judgment was entered might have done. If
there be no other Justice in the township, then the dockets
and papers of such Justice shall be deposited in the office of
the County Clerk of the county, to be by him delivered to
the successor in office of the Justice.

1 Amended 1863, 232.

§ 608. ‘A Justice may issue execution, or other process, upon
the docket of his predecessor.

Any Justice with whom thetdocket of his predecessor is
deposited shall have and exercise over all actions and proceedings entered in the docket of his predecessor, the same
jurisdiction as if originally commenced before him. In

' case of the creation of a new county, or the change of the

boundary between two counties, any Justice into whose
hands the docket of a Justice formerly acting as such within
the same territory may come, shall for the purposes of this

section, be considered the successor of said former Justice.
‘Amended 1855, 304 ; 1863, 232.

§ 609. Successor of a Justice, who shall be deemed.

The Justice elected to fill a vacancy shall be deemed the ’
successor of the Justice whose oiiice became vacant before
the expiration of a full term. When a full term expires,
the same or another person elected to take oiiice in the same
township or city, from that time shall be deemed the successor.

§ 610. If two Justices might be deemed successors, the Cbunty
Judge shall designate one.

When two or more Justices are equally entitled under
the last section to be deemed the successors in oiiice of the
Justice, the County Judge shall, by a certificate subscribed
by him and filed in the oiiice of the County Clerk, designate
which Justice shall be the successor of a Justice going out
of office, or whose office has become vacant.

§ 611. Blanks shall be filled in all papers issued by a Justice,
except subpoenas.

The summons, execution, and every other paper made or
issued by a Justice, except a subpoena, shall be Iiled without a blank left to be filled by another, otherwise it shall
be void.

§ 612. In case of disability’ of a Justice, another Justice may
attend on his behalf.

In case of the sickness, or other disibility, or necessary
absence of a Justice on a return of a summons, or at the
time appointed fora trial, another Justice of the same township or city may, at his request, attend in his behalf, and
shall thereupon become vested with the power, for the time
being, of the Justice before whom the summons was returnable. In that case, the proper entry of the proceedings be- '

fore the attending Justice, subscribed by him, shall be made
in the docket of the Justice before whom the summons was
returnable. If the case be adjourned, the Justice before

whom the summons was returnable may resume jurisdiction.

§613. ‘The Justice may depute a person to serve a summons
or subpoena. Justice liable for acts of such deputy. ,

The Justice may, at the request of a party, on good cause
being shown therefore under oath, but not otherwise, specially depute any discreet and responsible person of suit.able age, and not interested in the action, or related to’ such
Justice or party, to serve a summons or execution‘, with or
without an order to arrest the defendant, or with or without a writ of attachment. The said Justice shall be liable
on his oiiicial bond for all otiicial acts of the person so
deputed; such deputation shall be in writing on the process and shall state the reason. thereof.
‘Amended 1860, 305; 1865-6, 467.

$614. Authority and obligations of a deputy.

The person so deputed shall; have the authority of. a Canstable in relation: to the service, execution-,. and return of
such process, and shall be subject to the. same obligations.

§615. A Constable, after the expiration of his term, may
execute papers previously commenced.

A Constable, notwithstanding the expiration of— his term
of office, may proceed and complete the execution of all
final process which he has begun to execute, in the same
manner as if he still continued in office, and his sureties
shall be liable to the same extent.

§ 616. Contempts, a J usticefmay» punish for;

A Justice may punish as for contempt, persons guilty"-of
the following acts, and‘ no other:

1"st:. Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior towards the Justice while holding the Court, tending to interrupt the due course of ‘ a trial, or other judicial proceeding;

2d. A breach of" the peace, boisterous conduct, or violent
disturbance in the presence of the Justice, or in the immediate vicinityof the-Court, held by him; tending to interrupt
the due course of ’ a trial or other judicial proceeding;

3d. Disobedience or resistanceto the execution of a lawful order, or process made or issued by him;

4th. Disobedience to as subpmnaduly served, or refusing
to be sworn, or answer as a witness;

5th. Rescuing any person orpr'op‘er't‘y in the custody of
any oiiicer, by virtue of an order or process of the Court
held by him.

§ 617. Proceedings and punishments for contempts.‘

When a contempt is committed in the immediate view
and presence of the Justice, it’ may be punished summarily,
for which an order‘ shall be made re‘citiug the facts, as occur-‘
ring in such immediate view and presence, adjudging that
the person proceeded against is thereby  of a‘ contempt, and that he be punished‘ as therein prescribed.
When the contempt is not committed in‘ the immediate’
view and presence of the Justice, a warrant of arrest may
be issued by such’ Justice, on which the person so guilty
may be arrested and brought before the Justice immediately, when an opportunity to be heard in his defense or
excuse shall be given. The Justice may thereupon dis-‘
charge him, or may convict him of the offense. A Justice
may punish for contempts, by line or imprisonment, or
both’; such fine not to exceed in any case‘ one hundred dollars, and such imprisonment one day.

§ 618'. The conviction shall" be entered in the docket.
The conviction specifying particularly the oifense’ and

the judgment thereon, shall‘ be’ entered‘ by_the Justice in his
docket.‘

§ _619; ‘Justices may issue  and jinal process to’ any
part of the county.

Justices of the Peace may issue subpoenas in any action
or proceeding’ in the Courts held by them, and final process,
or [on] any judgment recovered ther”ein,to‘ any part of the
county. A Justice of the Peace may issue‘ summons‘ to any
person, a resident of the proper township, to appea'r’before'
him, athis oiiice, toact as interpreter in any action or proceedings in the Courts held by him. Such summons shall
beserved and returned in like manner as asubpoena issued
by a Justice. Any person sosummoned shall, for a failure
to attend at the time and place named in thesummons, be

deemed guilty of a contempt, and may be punished accordingly.
‘Amended 1863, 496.

1. Section four hundred of the Practice Act provides that where a Judge
trying a cause may be called as a witness, he may order the trial to take place
before another Judge; and section six hundred and twenty of the same act
extends the like provisions to Courts of Justices of the Peace. Davis v. Gallon, 2 Cal. 360.

2. Section six hundred and twenty of the Practice Act provides that the
provisions of Title XI of that act, so far as consistent with the jurisdiction
and owers of Justices’ Courts, shall be applicable thereto, and Title XI
incl as section four hundred and twenty-two. We see nothing in this section, as amended, inconsistent with the jurisdiction and power of these
Courts. Bradley v. Kent, 22 Cal. 172.

§ 621. Mining claims, actions concerning, shall be governed by
the usages of the bar or dzggings.

In actions respecting “ mining claims,” proof shall be
admitted of the customs, usages, or regulations established
and in force at the bar, or diggings, embracing such claim;
and such customs, usages, or regulations, when not in connict with the constitution and laws of this State, shall govern the decision of the action.

1. Mining laws, when introduced in evidence, are to be construed by the

Court, and the question whether by such laws a forfeiture had accrued, is a

uestion of law, and cannot, thereforee, be properly submitted to a jury.
airbanlc v. Woodhouse, 6 Cal. 433.

2. Miners have the power to prescribe the rules governing the acquisition
and divesture of the titles to this class of claims, and their extent, subject
only to the general laws of the State. English v. Johnson, 17 Cal. 107.

. 3. Where a party's ri hts to a mining claim are hired by the rules of property, which are a part c the general law of the lan they cannot be divested
by ani_mere neighborhood custom or tion. aring v. Crow, 11 Cal. 366.

4. nglish v. ohnson (17 Cal.), that e quantity of ground a miner can
claim by location or prior appropriation, for mining purposes, may be limited
by the mining rules of the trict, aflii-med. Presser v. Parks, 18 Cal. 47.

5. The fact that mining laws and regulations were passed on a diferent day
from that advertised for a meetin of miners, does not invalidate them.
Courts will not inquire into the regiaarity of the modes in which these local
legislatures or primary assemblages act. They must be the judges of their
own proceedings. It is sumcient that the miners agree—whether in public
meeting or after due notice—upon their local laws, and that these are recognized as the rules of the vicinage, unless fraud be shown or other like cause
for rerjgsting the laws. Core v. McBrayer, 18 Cal. 582.

6. e mining rules of the district cannot limit the quantity of ground or
glgecplurpper of claims a party may acquire by purchase. Presser v. Parks,

7. The act of 1859 (chap. 97) respecting the mines; the Practice Act of
1851 (see. 621), relativeto proof in actions respecting ' ' claims; the act
of 1852, relative to possessory actions, commented on, an the conclusion
reachedthat, so far as the touched the question of a license from the state
tli I6'a11l1.O,2;l9|6y refer to pub ‘c lands alone. Biddle Boggs v. Herced Mining 00.,

8. Where parol evidence is given of certain regulations of miners, and it
does not appear until the cross-examination of the witnesses that the regulations were in writing, the proper course to pursue, if any objection is taken
to the evidence, is by motion to strike it out. Kiler at al. v. Kimball, 10

Cal. 267.
9. Where theo ' ' records of mining claims of a certain district have
s, and the miners, by a resolution subsequently passed,

been destroyed by
required the claims to be recorded in a new book, suehjioqk may be admitted

3-. .._'.J._.. 1.. LI... L...'-I -0 _

1.0. VVLIUIU IIIXUIU NIB H0 IUUZII UUBIIUIDB UK Il38\l.lRIJ1UllB Ill I01’? I18 3 CICDCIOV
where a mining claim is located at the time of its location, general customs
then in force are admissible in evidence upon the question of the reasonableEelass of its extent. A general uniform custom should be proved if one exists.

17. If the defendants in an action claim that when they took up the ound
in dispute, a local custom allowed them three hundred feet front to eac man,
and that they located to that extent, they are estéafped from asse ' that the

laintifs location to the same amount. made b ore the adoption 0 the cusm, was unreasonable in size. Id.

18. If there is no evidence as to the general custom of the size of locating
mininghtillaims, instructions to the jury upon the reasonableness of its size,
de ' ' g on general custom, are irrelevant. Id.

9. It is error for the Court to instruct the jury that the statutes provide
that the neral usages and regulations shall govern the decision of the action. e statute speaks only of local customs. Id.

20. Where any local mining customs exist. controversies affecting a mining
right must be solved and determined by the customs and usages of the bar
or ' gings embracing the claim to which such right is asserted or denied,
whet er such customs and usages are written or unwritten. Morton v. Bola be 0. M. 00., 26 Cal. 527.

21. If a mining custom allows a person to locate a lode or vein for himself
and others, by pla ' thereon a notice with his own name and the names of
those whom he ma c oose to associate with him appended thereto, de ' at’ the extent of his claim, and one person thus locates a lode for ' and several others, some of whom have no knowledge of the location,

se
the persons who have no knowledge of the location by the same, become

 

tions were in writing, the proper course to pursue, if any objection is taken
t(<}>8lth2¢é7evidence, is by motion to strike it out. Kiler at al. v. Kimball, 10

9. Where the original records of mining claims of a certain district have
been destroyed by e, and the miners, by a resolution subsequently passed,
required the claims to be recorded in a new book, such book may be admitted
in evidence in the trial of an ejectment case for a mining claim, to show that
fib28CHI1e:2()6f the vicinage had been complied with. HcGa1-rity v. Byington et al.,

10. Plaintifs having ofered in evidence the book where mining claims are
recorded according to mining rules, to show title in the original locators,
then ofered the entry in that book of the transfer of said claims from such
locators to the lessors of plaintiffs as proof of the fact of transfer. The
Court excluded this entry until roof aliunde of the transfer. Held, that this
on was inadmissible as proo of such transfer, there appearing no mining

tion which makes the entry of the recorder gzlrimary evidence of the
fact of transfer. Atwood d: Walker v. Fricot, 17 Cal. .

11. Such book was admissible to show compliance with the rules of the
mining district, and this particular entry admissible to show compliance with
the miners’ rule requiring transfers to be recorded. Id.

P-12. A bill of sale of a mining claim is sumciently roved when the hand of the subscribing witness, who is absent in the State, and the
execution by the vendor is proven. And this, though the subscribi witness was in the State after suit was instituted, and near the time of ' , and

laintif used no eforts to get the testimony of the witness before he left the
C:late2.64Jaclc.son v. Feather River Water 00., 14 Cal. 18; St. John v. Kidd, 26

14. Upon the question of reasonableness of the extent of a mining location, a general custom, whether exis ° anterior to the location or not, may

be given in evidence; but a local stan upon diderent footing, and cannot

lbqqhizltroduced to affect tlze validi Cof a  acqui;-3d alre1i'i9q)us to its estab' ent. lhble ounla n o. v. ranahan, . .

15. A local mining regulation or custom adopted after the location of a
claim, cannot be 'ven in evidence to limit the extent of a claim previously
located. Id., 31 al. 378.

‘ #6. Where there maxi: nO1l0c8tle((1311Bl’OtI1I;8 cg regqlqtioiis in force irzrtlile district
. wereaminingc ' is oca at e meo ts ocation, customs
I then in force are admissible in evidence upon the question ofgale reasonable1 $533 of its extent. A general uniform custom should be proved if one exists.
‘ 17. If the defendants in an action claim that when they took up the und
‘ in dispute, a local custom allowed them three hundred feet front to eac man.
and that they located to that extent, they are esteofped from asse ' that the
laintih"s location to the same amount, made b are the adoption 0 the cusin, was unreasonable in size. Id. _

18. If there is no evidence as to the general custom of the size of locating

izliiningiiqllaims, instrulctions to the jurly upon thde reasonableness of its size,
e g on genera custom, are irre evant. .
l)9¢l It is error for the Court to instruct the jury that the statutes provide
that the eneral usages and regulations shall govern the decision of the action. Tge statute speaks only of local customs. Id.
20. Where any local mining customs exist, controversies afecting a mining
ht must be solved and determined by the customs and usages of the bar
r  embracing the claim to which such right is asserted or denied,
het er such customs and usages are written or unwritten. Morton v. Salam0. M. 00., 26 Cal. 527.
21. If a mining custom allows a person to locate a lode or vein for himself
d others, by placing‘ thereon a notice with his own name and the names of
ose whom he ma c oose to associate with him appended thereto, de ' atthe extent of 's claim, and one person thus locates a lode for ' and several others, some of whom have no knowledge of the location,
a persons who have no knowledge of the location by the same, become

tenants in common with the locator and the others. and cannot be divested
of their’ interest  the locators afterwards tearing down the notice and posting up adnother,  their names, unless this is done with their knowle an consen . .
‘odgl. A local mining regulation or custom, adopted atter the location of 0
' e, cannot be  van in evidence to limit the ‘extent of a ‘claim previously
ocated. T. II. 00. v. 8tranalian,'31 Cal. 387.
‘23. Where tlierearenolocalcustomsorregulations in forcetntheDistrict
where the mining claim is located at the time of its location, general customs
then in force are admissible in evidence upon the question of the reasonableh°i'i°iairii1°xt°n<ii1oIgi1 dcustoms’ dif t ti ' th '
. ence _ an m eren coun es in e mmeral 'ons,varying rmmh otherastothesize,ofl‘ " am1nmg' '

claim, s not admissible in evidence to show the reasonableness 0 its extent,
"a gegneral uniform custom should be proved if one exists. Id. ' ’
‘ . If there is no evidence as to the general custom of the size of locating
mining claims, instructions to the ' upon the reasonableness of its size,
do riding on general customs, are levant. Id. ’ A

St: It is error for the Court to instruct ‘the j ' that the statute provides
that general customs‘, s and regulatons sh govern the decision of 
action. The statute spe only of local customs. Id. " i

§622. 

A new trial may be granted by the Justice, on motion,
within ten days after the entry of the judgment, for any one
_of the following causes: , i

let. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could
not have guarded against.

2d. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under
the influence of passion; or,

8d. Insudiciency of the evidence to justify the verdict or
other decision.

4th. Newly discovered evidence material for the party
making the application, which he could not with reasonable
diligence have discovered and produced at the time.

§ 623. Application for a new trial.

The application shall be made upon atiidavit and notice.
The atiidavit shall be filed with the Justice, with 8 statement
of the grounds upon which the party intends to rely. The
adverse party may use counter affidavits on the motion, pro»

vided they be filed one day previous to the hearing of the
motion. '

§ 624. ‘Appeal from a judgment qf a Justice may be taken to
the County Court. V

Any party dissatisfied with a judgment rendered in a
J ustice’s Court, may appeal therefrom to the County Court of

the county [at] any time within thirty days after the rendition of the judgment; the appeal shall be taken by tiling a
notice of appeal with the Justice, and serving a copy on the
adverse party. The notice shall state whether the appeal is
taken from the whole or apart of the judgment, and if from
a part, what part, and whether the appeal is taken on questions of law or fact, or both.

‘Amended 1853, 280; 1854, 98. See ante. M 366-367.
1. On appeal from a Jus'ice’s to 9. Con Conrt—the record not showing

that notice of a peal had been served on t e adverse pa?—appellant may
pgalveagghis am avit that such notice was in fact served. endiooa v. Orr, 16

2. The general rule regulating appeals, which provides that notice may be
served on the pang or his attorney, must govern cases arising in J ustices’
Courts. Wellon v. aribardi, 6 Cal. 245.

3. A Justice of the Peace has jurisdiction to grant a peals and to sta prooeedings thereupon; and hisaction cannot beneview on certtorari. 'oulta'
v. Stark, 7 Cal. 245.

4. Under the Constitution, before the amendment: which went into efect
January 1st, 1864, an appeal could be taken to the Supreme Court from a
judgment of the County curt, when the judgment appealed from, inclu '
ch  and interest,exceeded two hundred dollars. Malsonv. Vaughn,

5. One of the conditions upon which an appeal is allowed from a Justice's
Court, is payment of costs. McDe1-molt v. Douglass, 5 Cal. 89.

6.AnapealdoesnotlietotheConn Courtfrcmanordermade a
Justice of t e Peace, directing ro ed to have been stolen, and '
covered and brought before the ustice hy a peace officer, by virtue of a search
varrag. iisipedsby the Justice, to be delivered to the owner. People v. Hallo, . 6 1.

. An appeal to the County Court lies from a judgment rendered in a Jush'ce’s Court, in an action brought to recover the penalty for an overcharge,
pursuant to the provisions of the act of the 14th of April, 1863, concerning
street railroads in this State. Bureau v. Cowles, 25 Cal. 535.

8. A notice of appeal from a judgient rendered in a Justice's Court to the
County Court, in an action of forci e entry and detainer, is not invalidated
because it contains a clause that the “ appeal is taken on questions of law
alone." Zolle v. Mzbonald, 23 Cal. 136.

. § 625. ‘Party appealing on questions of law alone shall prepare a statement. Settlement of statement.

When a party appeals to the County Court on questions of
law alone, he shall, within ten days from the rendition of
judgment, prepare a statement of the case and file the same
with the Justice. The statement shall contain the grounds
upon which the party intends to rely on the appeal, and so
much of the evidence as may be necessary to explain the
grounds, and no more; within ten days after he receives
notice that the statement is filed, the adverse party, if dissatisfied with the same, may file amendments ; the proposed
statement and amendments shall be settled by the Justice,

and if no amendments be filed, the original statement shall be
adopted. The statement thus adopted or as settled by the
Justice, with a copy of the docket of the Justice, and all
motions filed with him by the parties during the trial, and
the notice of appeal shall be used on the hearing of the
appeal before the County Court.

‘Amended 1853, 280; 1854, 99' 1855, 198.
1. On appeal from a Justloe’s Court to a County Court, on questions of law
alone, if a new trial he ordered, it should take place in the County Court.

People v. Evelon, 8 Cal. 518.
§ 626. ‘If the appeal be upon questions of fact, or of law and
fact, no statement need be made.

When a party appeals to the County Court on questions of
fact, or on questions °of both law and fact, no statement need be

made, but the action shall be tried anew in the County Court.

‘Amended 1853, 280; 1854, 99.

1. A defendant, who has been properly served with process issued out of a.
Justice's Court, who allows judgment to be taken against him by default. admits the facts alleged in the com laint, and no appeal will lie from such judgment in reference to such facts, 1 ere being no issue of facts. The People as
rel. Jones v. The County Court of El Dorado County, 10 Cal. 19.

2. In such a case, where the defendant appeals on questions of both law
and fact, he is not entitled to a trial de novo. Id.

3. In all cases the issue of fact must be made in the Court of original jurisdiction. The County Court can only re the issue tried in the Court below.
This is what is meant by a trial anew in e County Court, under section six
hundred and twenty-six of the Practice Act. Id.

§ 627. "Upon the appeal, the Justice shall transmit the case to
the County Court.

‘Upon receiving the notice of appeal and on payment of
the fees of the Justice and filing an undertaking as required in the next section, the Justice shall within five
days transmit to the Clerk of the County Court; if the ap-'
peal be on questions of law alone, a certified copy of his
docket, the statement as admitted or as settled, the notice
of appeal and the undertaking filed; or, if the appeal he
on questions of fact, or both law and fact, a certified copy
of his docket, the pleadings, all notices, motions and other
papers filed in the cause, the notice of appeal and the undertaking filed, and the Justice may be compelled by the
County Court, by an order entered upon motion, to transmit such papers, and may be fined for neglect or refusal to
transmit the same; a certified copy of such order may be

served on the Justice by the party or his attorney. In the
County Court either party shall have the benefit of all

legal objections made in the J ustice’s Court.

‘Amended 1853, 280; 1854, 99; 1855, 198.

1. Where a arty appealed from a Justice’s Court to a County Court, and
the Justice neglected to send u with the record the notice of a peal: Held,
that it was error to refuse to ow appellant the opportunity 0 moving to
compel the Justice to send it up, by peremptorily dismissing the appeal.
Sherman v. Rolberg, 9 Cal. 17.

2. Even were this not the case, when such an omission occurs, leave should
be granted to nle a good bond. Billings v. Roadhouse, 5 Cal. 71.

3. The omission of the words “ to pay to ” will not invalidate the obligation of an a peal bond. Id. 4

4. It is ways within the power of a Court, when exercisin proper
discretion, to extend the time fixed by law, whenever the ends 0 'ustice
would seem to demand such an extension. Wood v. Forbes et al., 5 al. 62.

5. A Justice of the Peace may refuse to send up the transcript of a cause
tried before him, until his fees are aid by appellant; but if he sends it up
without receiving his fees, the fact at they are not paid is no ground for dismissing the appeal. .Bra' v. Redman, 6 Cal. 287.

6. An oEer to pay the ustice his costs on appeal, so soon as the appeal
papers are ready to transmit to the County Court, is not a suilicient tender,
under the statute. The fees must be tendered unconditionally. People ea: rel.

v. Harris, 9 Cal. 571.
7. The Justice is not bound that to make out the papers, and then rely on

his fees being afterward paid. Id.
8. An appeal is made by tiling and serving the notice of a peal. Both

P
requisites must exist to comgtzltlg tgeoagpeal. A failure to notify the adverse

party is fatal. Whi v. 641.
9. One of the con 'tions upon which an appeal is allowed from Justices’

Courts, is the payment of the costs of the action.’ McDe1-molt v. Douglas, 5

Cal. 89.
10. Where the a peal is taken on questions of law alone, the Justice sends

up a statement wit a copy of this docket and all motions filed by the parties
during the trial, the notice of appeal and the undertakin on a peal. But
when the appeal is on questions of fact, or both of law an fact, e sends up
no statement. The statement must contain the unds upon which the
parties intend to rely on the appeal, and so muc of the evidence as ma
can ngfgssary to explain the grounds and no more. People v. Freelon,

§ 628. ‘ Undertaking on appeal. Justification of sureties.

An appeal from a J ustice’s Court shall not be effectual for
any purpose, unless an undertaking be filed, with two or more
sureties, in the sum of one hundred dollars, for the payment
of the costs on the appeal; or, if a stay of proceedings be
claimed, in a sum equal to twice the amount of the judgment,
including costs, when the judgment is for the payment of
money; or twice the value of the property, including costs:
when the judgment is for the recovery of specific personal
property, and shall be conditioned, when the action is for the
recovery of money, that the appellant will pay the amount of
the judgment appealed from and all costs, if the appeal be
withdrawn or dismissed, or the amount of any judgment and

ali costs that may be recovered against him in the said action
in the County -Court. When the action is for the recovery
of speciiic personal property, the undertaking shall be conditioned that the appellant will pay the judgment and costs
appealed from, and obey the order of the Court made therein:
if the appeal be withdrawn or dismissed, or any judgment
and costs that may be recovered against him in said action in
the County Court, and will obey any order made by the Court
therein. The undertaking shall be accompanied by the aiiidavits of the sureties that they are residents of the county,
and are each worth the amount specified in the undertaking,
over and above all their just debts and liabilities, exclusive
of property exempt from execution; or the bond shall be
executed by a suiiicient number of snreties who can justify,
in the aggregate, to an amount equal to double the amount
specified in the bond, or a deposit of the amount of the judgr
gnent, including all costs appealed from, or of the value of the
property, including all costs in actions for the recovery -of
specific personal property, with the Justice. And such de»
posit shall be equivalent to the filing of the undertaking in
this Act mentioned; and in such cases the Justice shall

transmit the money to the Clerk of the County Court, to be
by him paid out on the order of the Court. The adverse
party may, however, except to the suiiicieucy of the sureties
within five days after the filing of thewundertaking, and unless
they or other sureties justify before the Justice before whom
the appeal is taken, within five days thereafter, upon notice
to the adverse party, to the amounts stated in their affidavits,

the appeal shall be regarded as if no such undertaking had
been given.*
1 Amended 1853, 280; 1854, 99; 1855. 198; 1860, 305,

‘mamas or 1866. 28.
.AnAd0ouca'airIaAppealIinea-lain Oars.

honor I. when adamant has heenrenderedintheoourtofelnstioeouhe Poecain
,8 Count! Court. I ierrict Court, or the Superior Oourt of the City of vlan lhtncisco,
against any organized or incorporated city or town in this State. said city
001113!» Icliuet which such Judslnent was rendered may appeal ther «from to any Court at
11013903093 J¢1"'¢1°¢1°n- l?!’ min; a notice of appeal with the we Justice of the Peace. or
clerh at either of £1111; oéhgr Courtftg agovalgientigned. and serving’; iegpy thereog on ‘the
oppoei gamer .w n e ean manner prov: 1-appeals, nov or
ceeee ; an aid appeals shirllahe effectual for all urposee. and shall operate as a su
to auyexecutiou that has been or may be ism on said judgment without the tiling or g
hond‘or the payment of costs to the Justice or other Courts, by the said city, or town. or
eoun y so a . .

8161101: 2. e ayor, Attorney. or Chief Omoer of any oi . or District Attorney, or the
President of the Board of Supervisors of any county, shall snlfovztrmtggive the notice
herein required to be given, and to perfect such appeal on be of respective coii

poretioneoroounties.

ml?-I Superior ..Court 0! the city of San  was a~bo.1ishe.d March 3011»

9. It is the duty of a Justice of the Peace, when an appeal bond is PTO?
sented to him for his a proval, to act promptly. If he receives the bond
without ob'ection, it will too late to disapprove it the next day. People v,
%"ii’9'a1'5i11' toth   u pealbnd

. w oexcepts e ciencyo sure.'esonap_ , o__ , ma

waive tli,e.'1,1"tiustiiioation. Blair v. Hamilton, 32 Cal. 50. up 

4. If the sureties on an appeal bond are excepted to and a . before the
Justice to justify, and the party excepting then ‘states before‘ e Justice that
he knows the sureties to be good, an only excepted because his attorney told
him to do so, this is a waiver of justification. Id. 1

§ 629. Onjiling undertalcing, execution shall be stayed.

If an execution be issued, on the filing of the undertaking
staying all proceedings, the Justice shall, by order, direct the
ofdicer to stay all proceedings on the same. Such oiiicer shall,
._upon payment of his fees for services rendered on the execution, thereupon relinquish all property levied upon, and deliver the same to the judgment debtor, together with all
monies collected from sales or otherwise. If his fees be not
paid, the officer may retain so much of the property or proceeds thereof, as may be necessary to pay the same.

1.AJusticepftheP_escehasjurisdietiontograntap ,andtosta propeedings giereupzp; and his action cannot be reviey on oertiorari. V cutter
1. Stark, Cal. . ' 1 '

§ 630. Amended 1853: 281 ; repealed 1854, 100,

§ 681. ‘Costs allowed to prevailing party.

Costs shall be allowed to the prevailing party in a J ustice’s

Court.
‘Amended 1854, 100; 1855, 251.

§ 632. Amended 1854, 100; repealed 1855, 250.

§ 633. Money collected b3/.0'onstable or Shemff shall be paid
over to the Justice.

Justices of the Peace shall receive from the Sheriff or Constables of their county, all monies collected on any process
or order issued, by their Courts respectively, and all monies
paid to them in their official capacity, and shall pay the same
over to the parties entitled or authorized to receive them,
without delay. For a violation of this section, they may be
removed from their office, and shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. ' r

1. The clause making the plaintih‘ in the action a competent witness in his
own behalf. in no respect can be said to efect the mode of procedure; but if
it did, it would not distinguish it from the mode adopted in other civil actions,
for the same provisions existed in the Practice Act at the time the Act in question became law. The same is true of the clause which directs the distribution and pa ent of the judgment when collected. (Section_ 633 of the
Practice Act. Burson v. Cowles, 25 Cal. 538.

§ 634. Justice may require security for costs.

Justices of the Peace may, in all cases, require a deposit
of money, or an undertaking, as security for costs of Court,

before issuing a summons.

1. The statute which declares that " any officer may refuse to perform any
services in a civil action or proceeding until the fee for such service is paid,
is not to be construed as rohibiting the officer from performing the service
without payment of fees, ut as permissive merel , leaving the alternatives
of cash in advance or credit, to his own election. ' Icv. Madden, 25 Cal. 203.

2. If where the services are demanded of an officer in a civil case, he fails
to demand his fee in advance, his obligation to perform the duty required is
the same as it would be if the fees were prepaid or tendered in advance. Id.

§ 635. ‘Preceding sections applicable to Justices’ Courts.

The provisions of section thirty-two, three hundred and
sixty-eight, three hundred and sixty-nine, three hundred and
seventy, three hundred and seventy-one, three hundred and
seventy-two, three hundred and seventy-three, five hundred
and nineteen, five hundred and twenty, five hundred and
twenty-three, five hundred and twenty-five, five hundred and
twenty-six, hve hundred and twenty-seven, five hundred and

thirty-one, five hundred and thirty-two, shall be applicable to

Justices’ Courts and actions therein.
‘Amended 1860, 306.

TITLE LVIII.

pnocnnnmcs IN orvn. cases IN nsconnnss’ AND muons’
counrs.

Sscrros 636. Complaint, contents of. Must be veritled.
637. Summons shall issue on tiling complaint, returnable in not
less than four days.
638. Defendant may plead orally or in writing.
639. Trial b jury, when defendant is entitled to.
640. Appea s may be taken to the Conn Court.
641. Prcgeedings shall be conducted as actions in Justices’
ourts.
642. This title applicable to Mayors’ and Recorders’ Courts.

§ 636. Complaint, contents of. Must be verjied.

_ Civil actions in Recorders’ and Mayors’ Courts shall be
commenced by filing the complaint, setting forth the violation of the ordinance complained of, with such particulars of
time, place, and manner of violation, as to enable the defendant to understand distinctly the character of the violation

complained of, and to answer the complaint. The ordinance
may be referred to by its title. The complaint shall be verified by the oath of the party complaining, or of his attorney

or agent.

§ 637. Summons shall issue on filing comphzint, returnable in
not less than four days.

Immediately after filing the complaint, a summons shall be
issued, directed to the defendant, and returnable either immediately, or at any time designated therein, not exceeding
four days from the date of its issuance.

§ 638. Defendant may plead orally or in writing.

On the return of the summons, the defendant may plead to
the complaint, or he may answer or deny the same. Such
plea, answer, or denial, may be oral or in writing, and immediately thereafter the case shall be tried, unless for good
cause shown, an adjournment be granted.

§ 639. Trial by jury, when defendant is entitled to.

In all actions for violation of an ordinance, where the
line, forfeiture, or penalty imposed by the ordinance, is less
than fifty dollars, the trial shall be by the Court. In
actions where the fine, forfeiture, or penalty imposed by

the ordinance, is over fifty dollars, the defendant shall be
entitled, if demanded by him, to a jury of six persons.

§ 640. Appeals may be taken to the Gmnty Court.

From a judgment in a civil action in a Recorder’s or
Mayor’s Court, an appeal may be taken to the County
Court. The appeal shall be taken and the proceedings
thereon conducted in the same manner as appeals are taken
from a judgment in a civil action in a J ustice’s Court, and
as the proceedings thereon are conducted.

§ 641. Proceedings shall be conducted as in Justices’ C'ourls.

All proceedings‘ in civil actions in Recorders’ and‘ Mayor’s Courts, except as herein otherwise provided, shall be’

conducted in the’ same manner as in civil actions in Justices’

Courts.

642. This title applicable to Mayors‘ and Recorders’ Courts.

The provisions of this title shall be applicable to civil
actions in Recorders’ and Mayors’ Courts already established, or which may hereafter be established in any incorporated city of this State.

651:
652.
658.

654.
655.

{' 656.
657.
658.
659.
660.
661.
662.
663.
664.

665.

666.
667.

TITLE LVIX.
nrscsnmztsous rnovrsrons‘.

Su reme Court may make‘ rules for itself and 

ourts.
County clerk, what Courts clerk of.
Actions againn a she:-in for omcial acts.
Actions may be prosecuted in the Spanish language Incertain counties.

. Use anddenuition of  a's’usedin this act;

Certain acts re led.

When this act (to t'ake'e'fect.

Undertakings mentioned in this act, requisites of.
Receivers in=actions1-expecting‘ mining claims‘;

Beceivers, duties and compensation of. , p 0 _
Writs of certiorari‘ and mandamus, who may issue.

. Hearing ma be in vacation. _ _ 6
Property attac ed may be sold as under execution, if the
interestsof the parties require.
Cer‘-tined copies of certain papers may be admitted inevience.

Partners may be sued, b their common name.

Decisions on appeal shal be given in 

Of disclaimer, before answer.

Intervention, who may make. Dellnition.
Intervention may be before or after issue joined.
Intervention, pleadings, and proceedings upon.
Intervention, determination upon.

Testimou to be taken by the clerk on request. _
In case o adjournment, a partymay havethe testimony

of any witness taken. _A _ .
Executions’ for costs may issue on‘ uling rémittilnr, or
when oostsare allowed order of Court.
Repealing certain laws, an reviving others.
When supplementary act to take'elfe‘dt

§643. Supreme Court may make rules for  and the District Courts.

The Supreme Court may make rules not inconsistent
with the Constitution and laws of the State, for its own
Government, and the Government of the District Courts
and the Superior Court of the City of San Francisco; but
such rules shall not be in force until thirty days after" their

adoption and publication.
1.- The Superior Court of the city of San Francisco abolished May 1st,- 1857

§ 644. County Clerk, what Courts Clerk of.

The County Clerk shall be the Clerk of the County Court,
the Court of Sessions, and the Probate Court of" his county.
Until otherwise provided by law, the Clerk. of the Superior
Court of the City of San_Francisco shall be appointed by

the said Court.

1. A county clerk may issue process and attest proceedings of the Courts of
which he is ca: ojicio clerk, over his signature as county clerk, and leave to
the title of the proceedings or the contents of the instrument, the identification of the Courts to which the belong. Touchard v. Crow, 20 Cal. 150.

2. He may likewise attest an ~ sign as county clerk, certificate of acknowledgment, anlxing thereto the seal of Court of which he is ca: ojicio clerk, and
the seal a§lxed'~,.with its inscription, will sumcisntly designate the court of
which in that paticular matter he is acting as clerk. Id.

3. The authority of a deputy county clerk in taking and certifying to ac‘hiowledgments of conveyances istco-extensive with that of his principal. Id.

§ 645. Actions against-a Shem]? for oji’cz'al' acts.

If an action is brought against a Sheriff for an act done
by virtue of hisjoffice, and he give‘ written notice thereof to
the sureties on any bond of "indemnity received by him, the
judgment recovered therein shall be conclusive evidence of
his right to recover against such sureties; and the Court or
Judge in vacation may, on motion, upon notice of five days,

order judgment to be entered up against them for the

amount so recovered, including, costs.

1. If a sherili’ is indemnfiled for an act done by virtue of his omoe, and an
action is brought  t him to recover damages for the act, and judgment is
recovered against ' , the sherlf cannot afterwards have judgment 
the sureties on the indemnifying bond upon a notice of five days, unless he
gave the sureties written notice of the action brought against him. Dennis v.

adeard, .28 Cal. 101.

2. A bond to indemnify a sherif takes eieot from the time of its delivery.
Bufendeau v. Brooks, 28 Cal. 641.

3. The provision of the Practice Act makin the judgment, in an action
against a sherif, conclusive evidence against h s indemnider, where the latter
has been notified of the action, is foun‘ ed upon the principle that the action;
under such circumstances, is in substance against the indemniiier, the real
party in interest, and that he has in that action an opportunity to make any

fense that may exist. Dutilv. Pacheco, 21'Cal. 438.

4:. Where, thereforee, the indemnifer has been notfiled of the action against
the sherid, he cannot maintain a bill in equity to set aside the judgment
obtained therein, except under such conditions as would have enabled him to
maintain it had he been the nominal as well asreal party defendant to the that
action. Id.

§ 646. ‘Actions may be prosecuted in the Spanish language in
certain counties.
In the counties of Monterey, San Luis Obispo, Santa Barbara, Los Augeles and San Diego, it shall be the duty of the
oiiicer to give the defendant, in a civil action, if said defendant shall require it, a copy of the summons or other process
in the Spanish language; and in the counties of Santa Barbara, San Luis Obispo, Los Angeles, San Diego, and Monterey,
it shall be lawful, with the consent of both parties, to have
the process, pleadings, and other proceedings in a cause, in

the Spanish language.
‘Amended 1857, 1862, 567.

§ 647. Use and definition of certain words used in this Act.

Words used in this Act in the present tense, shall be deemed
to include the future as well as the present; words used in
the singular number shall be deemed to include the plural,
and the plural the singular; writing shall be deemed to include printing or printed paper ; oath to include allirmation
or declaration; signature or subscription to include mark,
when the person cannot write, his name being written near
it, and witnessed by a person who writes his own name, as a
witness.

§ 648. (krtain Acts repealed.

The following statutes, namely: the Act entitled “An Act
to Regulate Proceedings in Civil Cases in the District Court,
the Superior Court of the city of San Francisco, and the
Supreme Court,” passed April twenty-second, eighteen hundred and fifty; the Act entitled “An Act to Regulate Proceedings against Debtors by Attachment,” passed- April
twenty-second, eighteen hundred and fifty ; the Act entitled
“An Act providing for the Collection of Demands against
Vessels and Boats,” passed April tenth, eighteen hundred and
fifty; the Act entitled “An Actto Regulate Proceedings in
Courts of Justices of the Peace in Civil Cases,” passed April

tenth, eighteen hundred and fifty; and the Act entitled “ An
Act to Regulate Proceedings in the County Courts in Case a
of Appeal from the Courts of Justices of the Peace,” passed
April eleventh, eighteen hundred and fifty ; the Act entitled
“An Act respecting Set-offs,” passed [April] twenty-secon d»
eighteen hundred and hfty, are hereby repealed; but such
repeal shall not invalidate any judgment rendered, or order

made, or any proceeding already taken by virtue of said
statutes.

§ 649. When this Act to take eject.

This Act shall take effect on the first day of July, of the
present year.

1. The following sections, bom six hundred and dft to six hundred and
Nty-seven, are supplementary provisions, enacted in “ Act amendato oi‘,

and en plementary to, an Act entitled an Act to Regulate P  in ‘V11
Cases E1 the Courts of Justice of this State.” Passed May 16th, 1 .

§ 650. 1 Undertakings mentioned in this Act, requisites of.

In all cases where an undertaking with sureties required
by the provisions of said Act, the Judge, Justice, Clerk, or
other oiiicer taking the same, shall require the sureties to
accompany the same with an affidavit that they are each
worth the sum specified in the undertaking, over and above
all their just debts and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution; provided, that when the amount
speciiied in the undertaking exceeds three thousand dollars,
and there are more than two sureties thereon, they may
state in their aiiidavits that they are severally worth amounts
less than that expressed in the undertaking, if the whole

amount be equivalent to that of two suiiicient sureties.
‘Amended 1s54,1o1. See 5 64.

1. The affidavit is sumcient, if, when fairly construed, it comply with the
statute. Thafe v. Rosenthal, 7 Cal. 514.

2. Where a mere defective undertakin has been bonaégde given, and the
party will file a good one before the case s submitted, the urt should permit
im to do so.

oulterv.StarIc, 7Cal. 244° Bryanv.Berry, Id. 130' 0unningham 17. Hopkins, 3 Id. 33. ’ ’

3. If an undertaking has been executed by the plaintil, and is executed to
the defendant by a wrong name, the latter has his remedynand may describe it

as given to him. and may show that he was the party tended. Horgan v.
Thrift, 2 Cal. 563.

4. Takin all our statutes together, the obvious design was to put an undertaking on e same footing as a bond. Oanjiald v. Bates, 13 Cal. 606.

5. hpud@ona®&ormummde  can  no conskuctive
parties ‘jointly liable with the proper obligors. y v. Flznt, 4 Cal. 88.

§ 651. ‘Receivers in actitms respecting mining claims.

In actions respecting miners’ claims, in a J ustice’s Court,
the Justice shall have power upon application of the party
out of possession‘ of the claim or claims, after notice of one
day to the adverse party, to appoint a receiver of the proceeds of the claim, pending the action. If the parties agree
upon a person, he shall be appointed such receiver; if the
parties do not agree, the Justice shall appoint a receiver,
who shall take an oath, which shall be filed with ‘the Justice, that he is not interested in the action between the parties, and that he will honestly keep an account of all gold
dust or metals of any kind, the proceeds of the claim or
claims in dispute. After the appointment of such receiver,
the Justice shall have power to issue a written order to any
Sheriff or Constable, to put such receiver into possession of
such claim, which order said Sheriff or Constable shall execute, and the receiver shall remain in possession of the
claim or claims, so long as said action may remain undetermined in any Court. The Court in which the action may
be pending, shall have authority, upon the application of
either party, with two days’ notice to the other, from time
to time, to make such orders for the disposition of the proceeds of such claim or claims, for the safety of the same, as
may seem proper. The Court in which the action may be
pending, shall also have power, upon application of the receiver, based upon his affidavit, to punish as for contempt,
all persons who have been guilty of disturbing the receiver

in the possession of the claims.
‘Amended 1854, § 63, p. 101; 1855,199. See § 143 and notes.

§ 652. ‘Receivers, duties of.

The receiver mentioned in the last section, shall keep an
accurate account of all the proceeds of the claim pending
action, and of all amounts paid out for working the same:

and shall retain the proceeds, and pay the same over put’
suant to_ the order of_ the Court. The receiver shall also be
required, on demand of either party, to give security for

-the faithful performance of his trust, and shall be allowed
for the same a reasonable compensation, to be paid out of

the proceeds of the claim in his hands; but in no case exceeding ten per cent. upon such proceeds.
‘Amended 1354, § 54, p. 101.

§ 653. ‘Writs of certiorari and mandamus, who may issue.
Hearing may be in vacation. '

Writs of certiorari and mandamus may be issued in the cases
prescribed by said Act by a Judge of the Supreme Court,
District Court, or County Court, in vacations, and may, in
the discretion of the Judge issuing the writ, be made returnable,_and a hearing ‘may_be_‘had on the return thereof
in vacation. C ‘ A A i ‘

1Amended 1854, § 65, p. 101.

§,654. ‘Property attached,nuzy.be sold as under execution, 
the interests of the parties require.

Whenever property has been taken by an officer _nndgr_a
writ of attachment, in pursuance of the provisions of said
act, and it shall be made to appear satisfactorily to_the Court,
or a Judge thereof, or a County Judge, that the interest of
the parties to the action will be subserved by a sale thereof,
the Court or Judge may order such property to be sold in
the same manner as property is sold under an execution, and
the proceeds to be deposited in the Court, to abide the judgment in the action. Such order shall be made only upon
notice to the adverse party or his attorney, in case such
party have been . personally served with a summons in the
action.

amended 1854, § 66, p. 101. 80° N 1.30. 221.

§ 655. ‘Certified copies of certain papcrsgmaybeadmitted .48
evidence.

A copy of any record, document, or paper in custody of a
public officer of this State, or of the -United ‘States,’ within

this State, certified under the official seal, or verified by the
oath of such officer, to be a true, full and correct copy of the

original in. his custody, may be read  evidencepin an action

or proceeding in the Courts of this State, in the like manner
and with the like effect, as the original could be if produced.

‘Amended 185i, 6 68, p. 102. See M 448, 499.

1. A sworn copy or exemplincation of instruments in the archives of the
Government is evidence, and the ori 'nals o ht not to be removed from the

Government offices. Gregory v. Me hereon, 3 Cal. 674.
2. A certified copy of a deed from the county recorder-’s office, contained in

the margin of the acknowledgement taken before a notary, and in the place
where his seal is usually found, the words [“ No Seal ”]—the conclusion of
the acknowledgement be’ , “ In witness whereof I have hereunto set my
hand and amxed my odic' seal,” etc. The Court below ruled out the co y of
the deed as evidence, on the ground that the acknowledgement did not vs
the no ’s seal. Held, that the Court erred; that the words [“No Seal")
instead 0 im lying that there was no seal adixed, were a mere note by the
recorder of e place of the notarial seal, which he probabl had no means of
copying. Jones v. Martin, 16 Cal. 166. [See Donner v. almer, and cases
there c ted, 31 Cal. 500.]

5 656. Partners may be sued by their common name.

When two or more persons associated in any business,
transact such business under a common ‘name, whether it
comprises the names of such persons or not, the associates
may be sued by such common name, the summons in such
cases being served on one or more of the associates, but
the judgment in such case shall bind only the joint'_property of the associates.

1. If, in a complaint against a company by its company name, under the
six hundred and lifty-sixth section of the Practice Act, there is an entire absence of any statement sho ' the existence of the conditions named in the
section, and (judgment is ren ered against the company by default, is the
judgment vol , or are the conditions matters to be pended in abatement. and
if not thus pleaded, waived? Welch v. Kirkpatric . 30 Cal. 202.

2. If a complaint in an action against a company by its company states
substantial] e conditions mentioned in the six undred and nfty-sixth section of the gractice Act, and the sheriff returns that he has served the summons on one of the members of the company. and judgment by default is
entered up ' t the com y by its name, to be enforced ' the joint
property of e members, e Judgment is not void, but may enforced by
execution against the company property. Id. '

3. Such judgment is not a judgment against the person served with process,
but against the com ny. A complaint which contains no other designation
of the party plain ' than the name of a copartnership firm, is defective; but
such defect can onl be made available to defendant by demurrer for defect of
parties, or by d ' in the answer of any cause of action and objection thereggéler to evidence in support of the claim. Gilman J: 00. v. Oosgroos, 22 Cal.

§ 657. ‘Decisions on appeal shall be givenin 

All decisions given upon an appeal, in any appellate Court
of this State, shall be given in writing, with the reason
therefore, and filed with the Clerk of the Court, but this section shall not apply to actions tried with a jury anew in the

County Court, or on appeal from a J ustice’s Court.

‘ Amended 1854, §69, p. 102.

1. A decision of the Court is its judgment; the opinion is the reasons given
for that judgment. The former bei entered on record immediately, can
onl be changed upon a etition for re eating or a modification. The latter
is e property of the ju es, subject to their revision, correction and modification, until it is transcribed on the record with the consent of the writer,
when it ceases to be subject of change, exce t through regular proceedings
before the Court by petition. Houston v. W’ iams, 13 Cal. 3.

2. The practice of giving the reasons in writing for 'udgments is of modern
origin. And it is discretionary with the Court whet er it give an opinion
gen pronouncing judgment, and if given, whether it be oral or in 

3. The Legislature cannot require the Sn reme Court to give the reasons of
its decisions in  The Constitutio duty of the Court is discharged
by the rendition of its decisions. Id.

§ 658. ‘Of disclaimer before answer and interpleader.

A defendant against whom an action is pending upon a
contract, or for specific personal property, may at any time
before answer, upon affidavit that a person not a party to the
action makes against him, and without any collusion with
him, a demand upon the same contract, or for the same property, upon due notice to such person, and the adverse party,
apply to the Court for an order to substitute such person in
his place, and discharge him from liability to either party, on
his depositing in Court the amount claimed on the contract,
or delivering the property or its value to such person as the
Court may direct, and the Court may, in’ its discretion, make

the order.

‘ Amended 1854, § 70, p. 102.

1. Where a tenant finds that there are claimants to the property, he should
file a bill of interpleader, making all the adverse claimants parties thereto,
and offer to pay the rents into Court, to abide the ultimate decision of the

case. McDv.-mu v. Sullivan, 8 Cal. 592.
§ 659. ‘Intervention, who may make. Definition of.

Any person shall be entitled to intervene in an action
who has an interest in the matter in litigation, in the success
of either of the parties to the action, or an interest against
both. An intervention takes place when a third person is
permitted to become a party to an action between other persons, either by joining the plaintifff in claiming what is sought
by the complaint, or by uniting with the defendant in resisting the claims of the plaintifff, or by demanding anything

adversely to both the plaintifff and the defendant.
‘ Amended 1854, 971, p. 102.

1. The sixteenth and seventeenth sections of the Practice Act, and the seventy-I
second, seventy-third and seven -fourth sections of the amendments of 1854 to
the Practice Act, give a party- e right to intervene in an action in case of the
transfer of any interest during the pendency thereof, or when he is directly interested in the subject matter in litigation, and this can be done either before or
alter issue has been joined in the case. Broolcs v. Eager, 5 Cal. 281.

2. The interest which entitles a person to intervene in a suit between other
parties must be in the matter in litigation, and of such a direct and immediato
character that the intervenor will either gain or lose by the direct legal operation and effect of the judgment It must be that created by a claim to the demand, or some part thereof, in suit or a claim to or lien upon the properg, or
igimelpaét fhgxéeof, which is the subject of litigation. Ham v. The Volcano atao., 3 a . .

3. A simple contract creditor of a common debtor cannot intervene in a foreclosure suit. But judgment creditors, being as such subsequent encumbrancers,
may intervene ; and a Court may order them to be made parties, probably by
an amelnldment of the complaint as the better course, or on petition of intervention. . ’

4. In suit on a note and mortgage, where creditors of the defendant intervened, alleging the note and mortgage to be fraudulent as ' at them, the
intervenors cannot prevent a judgment for plaintifff against ' efendant. The
most they can claim is protection against the enforcement of the judgment to
their rejudice. Id. ~

5. an action to foreclose a mortgage upon property claimed as a homostead, the wife should be allowed to intervene. Sargent v. Mlson, 5 Cal. 504»;
Mosesv. Warner. 10 Id. 296; Dillon v.‘%-ne, 6 Id. 456. '

6. In an attachment suit. judgment c ‘tors of defendant may intervene to
salts aside the attachment because void as to them. Davis_v. Ejapingsr, 18 CaL
3 .

7. Subsequent attachment creditors may intervene in a suit of the prior
attachment creditor and the common debtor, when they allege that there is
nothing due to said first creditor, and that his object is to hinder, delay and defraud his creditors. M. Speyer v. Ihmels cf: 00., Jan. 1862.

8. The intervenors become defendants, and as they allege that the plaintifff is
not entitled to recover, it amounts to a denial of the facts set forth in the complaint, and consequently the onus probandi is on the plalntif ; and if he fails to
prove his case, even though the real defendants have made default, judgment
will be given in favor of the intervenors against him, and in his favor against
the real defendants. Id.

9. A. &Co. having on general deposit with B. &Co. $75,000, a tax for county
purposes was levied thereon, and payment demanded of both A. it Go. and B
J: Co.: Held, that the tax was legal, and that the c might intervene in an
action? concerning the money, to recover said tax. uba Co. v. Adams, 7

a . 3 .

10. The petition of an intervenor must be tested as a declaration or complaint. People v. Talmage. 6 Cal. 256.

11. On intervention. if the proceedings between the debtor and a . prior creditor are not void, but voidable, the defendant can alone object. Dicey v. Pollock, 8 Cal. 670.

12. In a suit to enforce a mechanic's lien on a ditch, a mortgagor of the ditch
subsequent to the lien has no absolute right of intervention. And, when the
suit had been ding some time, and the application to intervene was made
just as plaint was taking judgment, the application was properly refused.
Hoclcer v. Kelley, 14 Cal. 164.

13. The tiling of an intervention in an action to foreclose a mechanic's lien
within the prescribed statutory time, and becoming parties to the suit, during
the existence of the lien, is the same as commencing an original action. .&rs
v. McKay, 14 Cal. 127.

14. It 18 too late on appeal to object that certain parties could not intervene
in a suit pending in the inferior Court. McKenty v. Gladwin, 10 Cal. 227.

15. Where one tenant in common sues to recover possession of the pramises, and the dam es sustained by the ouster, his co-tenants cannot intervene.
Donner v. Palmer, radley, Intervenor, Oct. '1‘..1867. '

16. Where a subsequent attaching creditor has his attachment levied on the
property previously levied on by a prior attaching creditor, he is entitled to
intervene in the action between the £1-st attaching creditor and the defendant,
if the an: attachment was fraudulently procured, and the common debtor

hon: 161% sumcient property to pay both claims. Coghill cf: 00. v. Marks, 29

17. In an action to recover money in which an attachment has been issued
and levied upon property of the defendant, a subsequent attaching creditor‘
may intervene at any time before the entry of judgment for the of
contesting the validity of the first attachment. Speyer v. I hands, 1 al. 280.

18. If the owner of a claim assigns it absolutely, retaining, however, an
interest in it, he ma intervene to protect his interest in an action brought
by the assignee to co ect the same, and if he does not intervene, he is bound
by the ljtpldgrnent. Gradwohl v. Harris, 29 Cal. 150.

19. 'sisanactioninthenatureof a bill inequityto set aside adju
rnent recovered by Pacheco ' Hunsaker, who, as she:-if, seized an so (1
certain personal  of acheco, under an execution in favor of Dutil
against Andeque. ' claims the right to maintain this action, on the
g-ound that he idemnined the she:-id‘ against damages for taking said property. It appears by the pleadings, that when the action by Pacheco a nst
Hunsaker was commenced, the latter %ve Dutil notice of the action, an that
Dutil took charge of the defense, and y his own attorneys defended the action from the commencement to the conclusion. Under such circumstances,
the judgment against the sherii was conclusive evidence of his right to recover against Dutil on the bond of indemnity, by the provisions of section
six hundred and forty-dve of the Civil Practice Act. By virtue of section
six hundred and fifty-nine Dutil might have intervened and defended as a

tothe record, as he did as a in interest, inthe name of the deen tontherecord. Du1ilv.P ,2lCa1.441.

§ 660. ‘Intervention may be before or after issue joined.

A third person may intervene, either before or after issue
has been joined in the cause.
‘Amended sec. 72, p. 102.

§ 661. ‘Intervention, pleadings and proceedings upon.
The intervention shall be by petition or complaint, filed

in the Court in which the action is pending, and it must set
forth the grounds on which the intervention rests. A copy

of the petition or complaint shall be served upon the party
or parties to the action against whom anything is demanded,
who shall answer it as if it were an original complaint in

the action.

‘Amended 1854, § 73, p. 102.
1. Where a subsequent attaching creditor intervenes in an action for the

purpose of setting aside an attachment issued therein, on the ground that
there is no debt due from the defendant to the plaintifff, the allegations in the
pleading on the part of the intervenor, traversing the complaint, have the
same e ect as denials in an answer, and require amrmative proof by the
plaintid of his cause of action, in default of which the intervenor will have
Judgment in his favor. Speyer v. I hmcls, 21 Cal. 280.

§ 662. ‘Intervention, determination upon.
The Court shall determine upon the intervention at the

same time that the action is decided; if the claim of the
party intervening is not sustained, he shall pay all costs

incurred by the intervention.

‘Amended 1854, 6 74, p. 102.

1. Where the merits of the case were not investigated in the lower Court:
by reason of an uncertainty as to the proper mode of proceeding under the
anomalous provisions of the Practice Act rela ' to interventions, the Snpreme Court awarded a new trial, although the ' ‘on of the Court below
upon the main question involved was approved, and the only error disclosed
might have been cured by a direction to modify the judgment. Speyer Y.
I funds, 21 Cal. 281.

§ 663. ‘Testimony to be taken by the Clerk on request.

On the trial of any action in a Court of Record, either
party may require the Clerk to take down the testimony in

writing.
‘Amended 1854, 6 75, p. 102.

1. Exceptions to be written down by the olerk.—Where the parties
have not made a case nor a hill of exceptions, but have relied upon the teetimony taken down by the clerk, pursuant to section two hundred and seventyone of the Practice Act of 1850, no question can be raised, on a peal, respecting the decisions of the Court below during the progress of e trial. The
case of CGc:nte;ov. Geary, (1 Cal. 462), amrmed in this respect Pierce v. Minturn, 1 a . 4 .

2. If a party desires to bring the rulings of the District Judge. during the
regress of the trial. under review, he must either make out a statement of
acts, pursuant to section two hundred and seventy-two of the Practice Act of

1850, or a bill of exceptions, pursuant to sections two hundred and eightyseven and two hundred and eighty-eight. This Court will not examine into the
correctness of the decisions of the District Judge. where it has been such left
to the clerk of the District Court to ascertain and settle what decisions were.
Gunter v. Geary, 1 Cal. 462.

3. A mere transcript of the evidence taken down b the clerk is no part of
the record, unless made so by bill of exceptions. tleon v. Middleton, 2 Cal.
54. These cases amrmed in Castro’: emecutors v. Armeati, 14 Cal. 88.

§ 664. ‘In case of an acyournment, a party may have the testimony of any witness taken.

The party obtaining a postponement of a trial in any
Court of Record, shall also, if required by the adverse
party, consent that the testimony of any witness of such
adverse party, who is in attendance, be then taken by deposition before a Judge or Clerk of the Court in which the
case is pending, or before such Notary Public as the Court

may indicate, which shall accordingly be done, and the testimony so taken may be read on, the trial with the same
effect, and subject to the same objections, as if the witnesses

were produced.
‘Amended 1854; § 76, p. 102.

§ 665. ‘Executions for costs may issue on filing remittitur, or
when costs are allowed by order of Court.

Whenever costs are awarded to a party by an Appellate
Court, such party may have an execution for the same, on
filing a remittitur with the Clerk of the Court below, and it
shall be the duty of such Clerk, whenever the remittitur is
filed, to issue the execution upon application therefore; and
whenever costs are awarded to a party by an order of any
Court, such party may have an execution therefore in like

manner as upon a judgment.

‘ Amended 1854, 6 77, p. 103.
1. When a remittitur is sent down, the Clerk of the District Court may
issue execution for costs. Mayor qf Jlarysvilte v. Buchanan, 3 Cal. 212;

amrmed in 20 Cal. 51.

2. Where a judgment is against two, one only of whom appeals, and the
appeal is dismissed with twenty per cent. damages, the damages with the
costs do not become part of the cigginal judgment, and the redemptioner is
not bound to pay them when he eems from a sale under the udgxlplent.
The clerk below can issue execution for the damages and costs. Age)! n v.
Vischer, 14 Cal. 241.

3. The Clerk of the Court below can issue an execution, if re uired by the
prevailing party, for the costs included in the memorandum, an the costs of
the Clerk of the Sgpreme Court as certified by him on the remittitur. Eh:
parte Bun-ill et a1., Cal. 350.

§ 666. ‘Repealing certain laws and revising others.

Sections five, six, seven, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, eighteen,
nineteen and twenty, of the Act entitled: “An Act Amendatory of and Supplementary to the Act entitled ‘An Act to
Regulate Proceedings in Civil Cases in the Courts of Justice
in this State,’ ” passed May eighteenth, one thousand eight
hundred and fifty-three, are hereby repealed, and the sections
amended by said Amendatory Act shall stand revived as

amended by this Act.
‘ Amended 1854, § 78, p. 103.

§ 667. ‘ When supplementary Act to take efect.

This Act shall take effect on the first day of July, one

thousand eight hundred and fifty-four.
1 Amended 1854, t 79, p. 103.


