SECTION 1. No plea in abatement other than a plea to the
jurisdiction of the court,1 or where the matters relied upon to
establish the truth of such plea, appear of record, shall be ad­
mitted or received by any court of this territory, unless the
party offering the same, or some other person for him, file an
affidavit of the truth thereof.2 
SEC. 2. When a plea in abatement shall be adjudged insuf­
ficient by the court, the plaintifff shall recover full costs to the
time of overruling such plea. 
SEC. 3. When one or more of the persons composing any 
company or association of individuals, shall be sued, and the
person or persons so sued shall plead in abatement, that all per­
sons who should have been made defendants, are not joined in
the suit, such suit shall not for that cause abate, if the plaintifff
or plaintifffs forthwith sue out a scire facias against the persons
named in such plea; and on the return of such scire f 'acias, the
names of the persons named in such plea may be inserted in the
declaration, and the suit shall proceed in all respects thereafter
as if the persons named in such plea had been named in the
original writ. 
SEC. 4. If the persons named in such plea, cannot be served
with process, the plaintifff or plaintifffs, on the return of such sum­
mons, may suggest, on the record, the names of those not served, 
and proceed, a;; in other cases in which service is made on part
of the defendants only; and no other plea, in abatement for
non-joinder of defendants, shall be allowed in the same case. 
SEC. 5. No action or complaint, in law or equity, commenced
by efcnime sole, shall abate on account of her intermarriage before
final judgment: Provided, The husband shall appear and cause
such marriage to be suggested on the record, and himself made
a party to the suit, after which the suit may proceed, in the same
manner as if commenced after such marriage. 
~EC. 6. If a femme sole defendant intermarry before final judg­
ment or decree, the action shall not thereby abate; but the
husband, upon his own application or on that of the plaintifff;
and due notice thereof given, may, by order of the court, be 
made a party to the suit, and the suit shall then proceed as in
other cases. 
SEC. 7. When there is but one plaintifff in an action, and he
shall die before final judgment, such action shall not thereby
abate, if the cause of action survive to the heirs, devisees, ex­
ecuters, or administrators, of such plaintifff, but a:ny of such to 
whom the cause of action shall survive, may, by suggesting
such death on the record, be substituted as plaintifff or plaintifffs
therein, and prosecute the same as other cases.3 
SEC. 8. When there is but one defendant in an action, and he
shall die before :final judgment, such action shall not thereby
abate, if it might be originally prosecuted against the heirs,
devisees, executors or administrators, of such defendant, but the
plaintifff may suggest such death on the record, and shall, by
order of the court, have summons against such person or per­
sons, requiring him or them to appear and defend the action,
after which the suit shall proceed to final judgment according
to law.4 
SEC. 9. If there are two or more plaintifffs in any action, and
one or more of them die before final judgment, the action shall
not thereby abate, if the cause of action survive to the su:r­
viving plaintifff or plaintifffs, and if there are two or more c"!e-­
fendants in any action, and one or more of them shall die before­
final judgment, such action shall not thereby abate, but in either­
of said cases such death or deaths shall be suggested, on the:
record, and the action may proceed at the suit of the surviving 
plaintifff or plaintifffs, or against the surviving defendant or d~
fondants, as the case may require, in all respects as if such per­ 
sons had been originn lJy sole parties to the suit.
SEc. 10. When any executor or administrator shall be plaint­ 
iff or defendant in any suit, and shall, before final ju<lgment, die,
or cease to be such executor or administrator, the suit shall not
thereby abate, but the same may be continued by or against the
successor of such executor or administrator, by an order of
court substituting such successor as defendant therein. 
SEC. 11. When an action is authorized or directed by law to 
be brought by, or in the name of any public officer, or by any
trustee appointed by virtue of any statute, an<l such officer or 
trustee shall, before final judgment, die, or cease to be such
officer or trustee, the suit shall not thereby abate if the cause of 
such suit survive to his successor, but the same may be con­
tinued by such successor, who shall be substituted for that pur­
pose by order of the oourt, on a suggestion of such death being 
made upon the record. 
SEC. 12. Proceedings for the partition of lands shall not abate 
by the death of any party thereto, but shall continue in the
names of the survivors, if the interest of such deceased person
in the lands shall survive to them ; and if such interest shall
pass to other persons, they may, by rule of court, be made
parties, and the same proceedings may be had as if they had
been made parties originally. 
SEC. 13. No suit instituted in the name of one, for the use of
another, shall abate by reason of the death of the person whose
name is used, but may be continued by the real plaintifff in in­
terest, in his own name, on his suggesting such death on the
record, and an order of the court being made, substituting his
name for that of the deceased plaintifff. 
SEC. 14. The provisions of this chapter shall extend as well
to proceedings in equity, as at law; and the previsions of sec­ 
tions five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve and thirteen,
shall extend to all appeals, writs of error, and of certiorari. 
SEC. 15. All orders authorized by this chapter to be made
for the purpose of introducing into a suit a new person, as a co­ 
defendant with the original party, or for the purpose of substi­
tuting a per!on as a defendant, in place of the original party,
shall be made either upon the voluntary appearance of such
person, or by order of the court, after the party to be made such
defendant shall have been served with a scire facias, and all
such writs of scire facias may be sued out either in term time er
in vacation, and may be directed to any county, and shall cor­
respond as nearly as practicable with the original writ, and may
be executed and returned in the same manner ; but no scire f acias 
for the purpose of substituting another person in place of the
original defendant shall be sued out after the second day of the
second term of the court, next after the term at which the death
or disability of the original party shall be suggested on the 
record. 
SEC. 16. Whenever any person shall plead in abatement a
misnomer of defendant, the suit shall not for that reason abate,
but the plaintifff may have leave to amend by inserting the cor­
rect name, and the suit shall thereupon proceed as though the
defendant had been originally sued by his or her correct name. 
SECTION 1. All controversies which may be the subject of a
civil action, may be submitted to the decision of one pr more
arbitrators, in the manner and with the effect indicated in this 
chapter. 
SEC. 2. In order to make future arbitrations obligatory and
binding upon the parties, they shall, before they make their
submission, make and subscribe a written article of agreement,
in and by which they shall agree to submit all matters, or some
particular matter of difference, to the arbitrators named, and to
abide their award; and, also, that the award, when made, may
be filed, by the successful party, with the clerk of the district
court, as the basis of a judgment, and that an execution may be
issued for its collection. 
SEC. 3. Arbitrators shall not have power to act, hereafter,
until they take an oath, before some person authorized by law
to administer oaths, to the effect that they will well and truly
try, and impartially and justly decide the matter in controversy,
according to the best of their a~ty. 
SEC. 4. Arbitrators, duly sworn, and entered upon their
duties, shall have power to issue subpoenas and attachments for
witnesses, to administer oaths to witnesses and others in the
case, and aftei: a trial and hearing, to decide the matter, in 
writing, according to the very right ef the case. 
SEO. 5. The party in whose favor any award shall be made,
may file the same with the clerk of the district court of his dis­ 
trict, who shall be authorized to enter a judgment thereon, and 
if such award requires the payment of any sum of money, it 
shall be lawful for the clerk to issue an execution out of, and
under the seal of the court thereon, for the collection. of the 
judgment. 
SEC. 6. Arbitrators shall be entitled to receive from the party
in whose favor the award is made, three dollars per day each,
for their services, and the amount of their compensation may be
included in the judgment, entered thereon by the clerk. 
:Sxc. 7. Whenever it shall appear upon trial of any action at 
law, or in equity, or in any legal proceedings, in or before any
court of competent jurisdiction, that the subject matter of such
action or proceeding, or of any part thereof, or of the defense
thereto, or of any part thereof, has been submitted to and decid­ 
ed by arbitrators according to the terms of this chapter, such
matter shall be held to have been adjudicated and settled, and
not open, either directly or indirectly for review. 
SEC. 8. All adjudications, decisions or judgments, heretofore
had, given or pronounced, by any of the judges of the so­
called people's or miners' courts, within this territory, in actions
or proceedings in which the defendant or defendants, or the
party proceeded against, were personally served with process or
notice of such action or proceeding, and actually appeared in
such action or proceeding, in person or by attorney-except
when the action was founded upon a written contract to pay
money-or in any other manner assented to ths jurisdiction,
and submitted the case to his decision, or the decision of a jury
therein, shall be held and taken to have the same force, validity
and effect, in an adjudication and final settlement of the matter 
in controversy, or which was the subject matter of the action or
proceeding, as if the same matter had been submitted to arbi­
trators, according to this chapter and an award thereupon had
been made. 
SECTIOY 1. If any creditor, his agent or attorney, shall file an
affidavit,' in the ofllce of the clerk of the district court of any 
a11tdavlt fact, and 
county in this territory, setting forth, that any person is indebted 
to such creditor, in a sum exceeding twenty dol1ars, stating the
nature1 and amount of such indebtedness, as near as may be,
and that such debtor has departed, or is about to depart from
this territory, with the intention ef having his effects removed
from this territory,3 or is about to remove Iris property from
this territory, to the injury of such creditor, or that such debtor
conceals4 himself or stands in defiance of an officer so that pro­
cess cannot be served upon him, or is not a resident of this ter­
ritory, or that he is converting or is about to convert his prop­
erty into money, or otherwise dispose of his property with the
intent of placing it beyond the reach of such creditor, or that
he fraudulently contracted the debt or incurred the obligation re­
specting which the suit had been brought, or that the de­ 
fendant is a foreign corporation, or that he has fraudulently con­
veyed any of his estate with intent to delay, hinder or defraud
creditors, it shall be lawful for such elerk to issue a writ of
attachment, directed to the sheriff of the county, returnable like
other writs, commanding him to attach the lands, teneraenta,
goods, chattels, rights, credits, monies, and effects of said debtor of 
every kind, or so much thereof as will be sufficient to satisfy
the claim sworn to, with interest and costs of suit, in whose
hands er possession the same may be found. 
SEc. 2. The writ of attachment required in the preceding
section shall be substantially in the following form: The people
of the territory of Colorado to the sheriff of-- county, greet­
ing. Whereas A. B. ( or agent or attorney of A. Il., as the case
may be) hath complained on Gath (or affirmation) to-- clerk
of district court of the -- judicial district in and for the
county of --, that C. D. is justly indebted to the said A. 
B. to the amount of--, and oath (or affirmation) having also 
been made that said C. D. resides out of this territory, ( or con­
ceals himself, &c., as the case may be) and the said -- having
given bond and security according to the directions of the act
in such cases made and provided ; we thereforee command you,
that you attach so much of the estate, real and personal of the
said C. D. to be found in your county, a, shall be of value suf­
ficient to satisfy the said debt and costs according to the com­
plaint; and such estate, so attached in your hands to secure so
a1 to provide that the same may be liable to further proceeding
thereupon according to law, at a court to be holden at -- for
the county of -- upon the -- day of -- next, so as to
compel the said C. D. to appear and answer the complaint of the
said A. B., and that you also summon -- as a garnishee to be
and appear at the said court on the said -- day of ,-- next,
then and there to answer to what may be objected against him,
when and where you shall make known t8 said court, how you
have executed this writ, and have you then and there this writ.
Witness -- clerk of the said court, this -- day of -- in
the y«1&r of our Lord, &c.; which attachment will be signed by
the clerk and the seal of the court affixed thereto. 
SEC. 3. Such officer shall, without delay, execute such writ
of attachment upon the lauds, tenements, goods, chattels,
rights, credits, monies and effects of the debtor, of sufficient
value to satisfy the claim sworn to, with costs of suit, as com­
manded in said writ. If the defendant, or any person for him,
shall be in the act of removing any personal property, the officer
may pursue and take the same, in any county of this territory,
and return the same to the county from which such attachment
issued; be shall also serve said writ upon the defendant therein,
if he can he found, by reading the same or delivering a copy
thereof to him; the return to such writ shall state the particu­
lar manner in which the same was served. 
SEC. 4. Every clerk, before gran•ng an attachment, as afore­
said, shall take bond and security from the party for whom the 
same shall he issued, his or her agent or attorney, payable to
the defendant, in double the sum sworn to be Jue, conditioned
for the satisfying of all costs which may be awarded to such de­
fendant or to any others interested in said proceedings, and all
damages which shall be recovered against the plaintifff for wrong­
fully suing out such attachment, or for any excessive levy
made under any writ of attachment issued in such suit; which 
bond, with the affidavit or affirmation of the party complaining,
his or her agent or attorney, shall be filed in the office of the 
clerk granting the attachment. Every attachment issued with­
out a bond and affidavit taken and returned as aforesaid, is hereby
declared illegal and void, and shall be dismissed. 
SEC. 5. The condition of the bond required in the preceding
section, shall be, substantially, in the following form: 
THE CONDITION of this obligation is such, that whereas the
above bounden -- hath, on the day of the date hereof, prayed 
an attachment out of the district court of the -- judicial dis­
trict in and {or the county of --, at the suit of --, against
the estate of the above named --, for the sum of--, and
the same being about to be sued out of said court, returnable 
on the -- day or -- next, to the term of the court then to
be holden : Now if the said -- shall prosecute his suit with
effect, or in case of failure therein, shall well and truly pay and 
satisfy the said -- all such costs in said suit, and such dama­ 
ges u shall be awarded against the said --, bis heirs, execu­
tors or administrators, in any suit or suits which may hereafter 
be brought for wrongfully suing out the said attachment, and
all damages which may accrue to the said -- by reason of
an1 excessive levy made under any writ of attachment issued in 
th1i1 cause, then the above obligation to be, void, otherwise to
remain in full force and effect. 
SEC. 6. In all cases where two or more persons are jointly in­
debted, either as partners or otherwise, and an affidavit shall be
filed, as provided in the first section of this chapter, so as to
bring one or more of such joint debtors within its provisions
and amenable to the process of attachment, then the writ of
attachment shall issue against the property and effects of such 
as are so brought within the provisions of this chapter; and
the officer shall also be directed, in said writ, to summon all such 
joint debtors as may be named in the affidavit filed in the cause,
to answer to the said action, as in other cases of attachment. 
SEC. 7. It shall be sufficient in all cases of attachment, to
designate defendants by their reputed names or surnames, and
joint defendants by their separate or partnership names, styles 
or titles, as they are usually known, and heirs, executors and
administrators or deceased defendants shall ho subject to the
provisions of this chapter, in all cases in which it may be appli­
cable to them. 
SEC. 8. No writ of attachment shall be quashed nor the prop­
erty taken thereon restored, nor any garnishee discharged, nor
any bond by him given, cancelled, nor any rule entered against
the sheriff, discharged on account of any insufficiency of the
original affidavit, writ or attachment, or attachment bond, ii the
plaintifff or some credible person for him, shall cause a legal
and sufficient affidavit or attachment bond to be filed, or the 
writ to be amended in such time and manner as the courts shall
in their discretion direct, and in that event, the cause shall pro­ 
ceed as if such proceedings had been originally sufficient. 
SEC. 9. The officer serving the writ, shall take and retain the 
custody and possession of the property attached, to answer and
abide by the judgment of the court, unless the defendant or
person in whose possession the same may be found," shall enter
into bonds and security to the officer, to be approved by him,
in double the value of the property so attached, with cendition
that the said estate and property shall be forthcoming, to
answer the judgment of the court in the said suit; the sheriff
shall return such bond to the court in which the suit is brought,
on the first day of the term to which such attachment is return­
able. 
SEC. 10. If such bond be forfeited, the sheriff may6 assign
such bond to the plaintifff in the attachment, by a writing there­
on, under his hand, in the presence of two or more credible
witnesses, and after such assignment, the plaintifff may bring a 
suit in his own name thereupon; if the plaintifff will not accept
such assignment of such bond, and the court shall adjudge such
security insufficient, such sheriff shall be subject to the same
judgment and recovery, and have the same liberty of defense, as if 
he had been made defendant in the attachment, unless good and 
sufficient security shall be given, and bond filed, during the
term of the court to which such attachment is returnable;
at which term, the objections to the sufficiency of the security 
taken shall be made, to entitle the party suing out the attach­
ment to proceed against the sheriff, and execution may issue
thereupon, as in other cases of judgment; and whenever the
judgment of the plaintifff, or any part thereof, shall be paid or
satisfied by any such sheriff, he shall have the same remedy
against the defendant, for the amount so paid by him, as is now
provided by law for bail against their principal, where a judgment is paid or. satisfied by them. 
SEC. 11. If the sheriff shall fail to return a bond, taken by
virtue of the provisions of this chapter, or shall have neglected
to take one when he ought to have done so, in any attachment
issued under any provisions of this chapter, the plaintifff in the
attachment may cause a rule to be entered, at any time during
the first two days of the term to which the writ is returnable,
requiring the said sheriff to return the said bond; or in case no
bond has been taken, to show cause why such bond was not
taken. If the said sheriff shall not return the said bond within
one day thereafter, or show kgal and sufficient cause why the
said bond had not been taken, ju.dgment shall be entered up
against him for the amount of the plaintifff's demand, with costs
of suit : execution may thereupon issue for the same, whenever 
judgment shall have been entered against the defendant in the
attachment. 
SEC. 12. When the sheriff shall be unable to find property 
of any defendant, sufficient to satisfy any attachment issued un­
der the provisious of this chapter, he is hereby required to
summon all person~ within his county, who may be named in
the writ, or whom the creditor shall designate as having any prop­
erty, effects or choses in action, in their possession or power.
belonging to the defendant; or who are in anywise indebted to
such defendant, to appear before the court to whieh the writ is
returnable, on the return day of the attachment, then and there
to answer, upon oath, what amount they are indebted to the de­
fendant in the attachment, or what property, effects or choses in
action ho or she had in his or her possession or power, at the 
.time of serving the attachment; the person or persons so sum­
moned shall be considered as garnishees, and the sheriff shall
state in his return the names of all persons so summoned, and
the date of service on each. 
SEC. 13. When any attachment shall be issued out of the
district court, and levied or served on a garnishee, it shall be
the duty of the sheriff to return the same if required by the
plaintifff and· on return thereof, the clerk shall give notice for
four weeks successively in some weekly newspaper published 
in this territory, most convenient to the place where the court
is held,' of such attachment and at whose suit, against whose
estate, for what sum, and before what court the same is pending,
and that unless the defendant shall appear on the return day of
such writ, j u<lgment will be entered, and the estate attached
will be sold: Providol, TLat in case of foreign attachment, if
sixty' <lays shall not intervene between the first insertion of
such notice, and the first term of the court, then the cause shall
be continued until the next term of. the court. Any defendant
in attachment may appear and plead without giving bail or en­
tering into bond. 
SEC. 14. If the defendant appear, put in sufficient bail and
plead as aforesaid, his estate so attached shall he liberated, and
the garnishee or g1rnisbees, if nny, discharged. 
SEC. 15. If any attachment as aforesaid, shall be returned ex­
ecuted, and the estate attached shall not be replevicd, or defense
shall not be made 'as this chapter directs, the plaintifff shall be
entitled to judgment for his whole debt and costs, having estab­
lished the existence of such debt by legal testimony, and may
thereupon take execution for the same, according to law, as pro­
vided in other cases of debt; all the estate attached, and not
replevied, shall be sold for, and towards satisfying the plaintifff's
judgment, in the same manner as such property is required to
be, when taken in execution on a writ of fieri facias ; where an
attachment shall· be returned, served in the bands of any gar­ 
nishee, it shall be lawful, upon his or her appearance and examin­
ation in the manner as is by this chapter directed, to enter up
jml.'..;mcnt,r• an.l award execution against every such garnishee,
judgment having been first entered against the original debtor,
for all sum or sums of money due from him or them to the
defendant in the attachment, or in his, her or their custody, or 
po:-:~r·:-:;-:ion, for the use of such original debtor, or RO much
thereof as shall be of value sufficient to satisfy the debt and
costs of the complaint; all goods and effects whatsoever, in the 
hau.ls of any garnishee or garnishees belonging to such defend­
ant, shall also be liable to satisfy such judgtucnt. The court be­ 
fore which an~~ attachment is pending, shall by the verdict of a 
jury, or w itlrout such jury if the parties agree, assess the value
of all good.,, chattels and personal effects, not including money,
found or confessed to be in the possession or custody of any
garnishee, belonging to the defendant, and shall thereupon
direct that such garnishee, within some time to be fixed in the
order of the court, surrender such goods and chattels and per­
sonal effects to the sheriff to be sold upon execution against the
defendant! aud if by the sheriff's return to any such writ of 
execution or otherwise, it sha ll appear to the satisfaction of the
court that such garnishee hath failed to surrender such goods,
chattels and personal eflects, or any thereof, in compliance with
the order of the court, judgment shall thereupon be given
against such garnishee for the value so assessed as aforesaid,
and execution shall be awarded as in other cases. 
SEC. 16. When any garnishee shall be summoned by the
sheriff or other officer, in the manner aforesaid, and shall fail to
appear and discover on oath or affirmation, as by this chapter is
directed, it shall be lawful for the court, after solemnly calling
the garnishee, and such court is hereby authorized to enter a
conditional judgment against such garnishee; and thereupon a
scirc facias shall issue against such garnishee, returnable to the
next term of the court, to show cause, if any he Lave, why final 
judgment should not be entered up against him, upon such
scire facias being duly executed and returned; if such garnishee
shall fail to appear accordingly, and discover on oath or aflirrna­
tion in the manner aforesaid, the court shall confirm such judg­
ment, and award execution for the plaintifff's whole judgment
an<l costs; and if, upon the examination of any garnishee, it 
shall appear to the court that there is any of tho defendant's
estate in the hands of any person or persons who huve not been:
summoned, such court shall, upon motion of the plaintifff grant
a judicial attachment, to be levied upon the property in the·
hands of any such person or persons having any of the estate
of the defendant in his or thci r possession or custody, who shall.
appear and answer and be liable, as other garnishees; where any
garnishee shall deliver te the sheriff all the goolls, chattels and
effects whatsoever, found or confessed to be in his or her pos­
sc- . sion, b1·lo11ging to the defendant, or ~my part thereof, the 
same sha li Le received in discharge of so much of the jndg-­ 
mcnt :13 tr1,__: .-:~lilC shall UC appraised t o, lJ_Y the jury aforesaid,
who sl..d l inquire uud return the value thereof, according to 
the t:,.-i,J\·111·c which muv lie submitted to them relative thereto. 
~Ee'. 17. Yv~ L:c:n::v,__·r j~lll,'-'.·1,1i..:nt shall be rendered against any
gan.i . ...:],._,,., anr1 it :;l1.Jl app,;ar that the <kht from him to the de­ 
feud.cit in the ttLl~t\.:Ulneut is 110t yet due, execution shall not 
issue ~1\:1i11st h iui until twenty days after the same shall become
due, 110r sha ll ju.lgrnent be rendered ag,tillst a garnishee for a 
debt founded on a negotiable instrument, unless the same shall be 
due at the time of rendering the judgment.·
SEc. 18. If any such writ of nttachmcnt shall be served as 
aforesaid, it sbali and may be lawful for any such plaintifff at
any time during the return term of the said court, to prepare,
exhibit aud file, all and singular, such allegations and interroga­
tories in writing, upon which he or she shall be desirous to ob­
tain and compel the answer of any and every garnishee, touch­ 
ing the goods, chattels, monies, credits and effects of the said
defendants, and the value thereof, in his, her or their possession,
custody or charge, or from him, her or them due and owing to
the said defendant, at the time of the service of said writ or a.t
any time after, or which shall or ma.y hereafter become due, and'
it shall he the duty of each and every such garnishee to exhibit
and file under Lis oath or affirmutiou, on or l.cloro the third
<lay of the next succeeding term, full, direct and true answers to 
all au.I si11µ:uhr the allc_~Jtions and interrogatories by the said
plaiut ilf :-:to11101'le(1, exhibited and. filed, in the manner herein­ 
before Jirl'(·kd and described.
S.i-.:c. HI. \rh(;u1:va the plaintiffi:' iu a11y attachmeut shall allege 
tLat .u.v ~arni;-;~1._:e summoned in such attachment, hath not dis­ 
covered t110 true amount of debts due from h iin to the defend •. 
ant, or what goods and chattels belonging to the defendant, are .
in his or her possession, the court shall direct without the form­
ality of pleading, a jury to be empaneled immediately (unless
good cause be shown by either party for a continuance) to in­
quire what is the true amount due from such 'garnishee to the
defendant, and what goods and chattels are in his possession, be­
longing to the defcnda nt : npon such examination, witnesses
may be examined by t.h c respective parties, us in ordinary cases;
if the finding of tho jury shall be against such garnishee, the
court shall grant judgment in the same manner as if the facts
feund by the jury lw.<1 been confessed by him or her, on his or her
examination, and costs of inquest; and if the jury find in favor
of the garnishee, he shall recover his costs against the plaintifff 
SEc. 20. Where any witness resides out of the territory, or
out of the county in which any attachment may be pending,
and in which the testimony of such witness mar be required, it 
shall be lawful for either party or garnishee in such attachment,
on filing interrogatories with the clerk of the court from which
such attachment has issued, and giving ten days notice of the
time and place of taking such testimony, by serving a eopy of 
·iuch notice on the opposite party, or if such party shall be
absent from or reside out of the county, then by affixing a
notice in writing thereof on the door of the court house of such
county, at least ten days before the day set for the taking
thereof, to obtain a commission from the clerk of the court, to
take the testimony of such witness or witnesses on such inter­
rogatories; such examination may be read on trial, on motion of
either of the parties or garnishee. 
SEC. 21. In all cases of attachment, any person other than
the defendant claiming any of the personal property attached,
may interplead without giving bail," but the property attached
shall not thereby be rep levied; and the court shall immediately
(unless good cause be shown by either party for a continuance)
direct a jury to be empaneled, to inquire into the right of
property; in all cases where the jury find for the claimant, such 
claimant shall be entitled to his costs, and where the jury find
for the plaintifff, in the attachment, such plaintifff shall recover
his costs against such claimant. 
SEC. 22. If judgment by default shall be entered on any at­
tachrnent against the estate of the defendant, in any court of
this territory, no execution shall issue thereon, except against
the goods and chattels, lands and tenements, on which the at­
tachment mny have been served or against .a garnishee or gar­
nishees who shall have money or other property in his or their
hands belonging to the defendant, unless the defendant, or in 
case of a corporation, some officer or agent thereof, shall have
been actually served with the writ of attachment, in which case
the judgment shall have the same force and effect as if the de­
fendant had been served with a summons or capias ad t·espon­ 
dendum in an action of debt or. assumpsit. 
~EC. 23. When any goods and chattels shall be levied on by
virtue of an attachment, and the sheriff or other proper officer
in whose custody such goods and chattels are, shall be of opinion
that the same are of a perishable nature, and in danger of im­
mediate waste and deeay, such sheriff or other .proper officer as
aforesaid shall summon three respectable householders of his
county, who shall examine the goods and chattels so levied on,
and if the said householders shall on oath or affirmation, certify
that, in their opinion they are of a perishable nature and in 
danger of immediate waste and decay, and if the person or per­
sons to whom such goods and chattels belong, his, her or
their agent or attorney, shall not within twenty days after serv­
ing such attachment replevy the same, then such goods and
chattels shall be sold at public vendue by the sheriff or other
proper officer, he having first advertised such sale at the court­
house, and two other public places in his county, at least ten
days before the sale; the money arising from such sale shall be
liable to the judgment obtained upon such attachment, and de­
posited in the hands of" the clerk of the court t~ which the pro­
cess shall be returnable, there to abide the event of such suit. 
SEC. 2-1. When any sheriff or other ofliccr shall serve au at­ 
tachment Oil horses, cattlo or live stock, and the same shall not
be immediately replcvierl or restored to the debtor, it shall and
may 1Jc lawful for such officer, and he is hereby required, to
provide sufllcicnt sustenance for the support of such live stock, .
until the same shall be sold or otherwise legally disposed of or
discharged from such attachment; ho shall recci ve therefore a
reasonable compensation, to he ascertained aud determined by
the court out of which the attachment issued, and the same
shall be charged in the foe-bill of such officer, and shall be col­
lectable as a part of the costs in the attachment. 
SEC. 25. Any defendant, against whom an attachment may be
sued out under the provisions of this chapter, or garnishee, may
avail himself, in bis defense, of any set-off properly pleadable by 
the laws of this territory, notwithstanding such set-off may not
be due at the time of suing out such attachment, or at the trial
thereof; any claim, due or not due, may be set-off hy the gar­
nishee, whether it exists against the plaintifff or defendant in
the attachment. 
SEC. 26. In all eases where more than one attachment shall
be issued against the same person or persons, and returned to
the same term of the court to which they are returnable, or 
when ajndgment in a «ivi l actiou ;-;1i~11 also be rendered at the
same term ugain~t t lie· '1t·f',·ll(bt1t1 who is the same person and 
defendant in the att,wli rn. ·nt . or attach m. .. -nts, the court shall
direct the clerk to muk: an est irn.rto of t hc several amounts 
each attaching or jud.rmcnt creditor will b,~ entitled to, out of
the property of the defendant attached, either in the hands of
any garnishee or otherwise, after the sale and receipt of the
proceeds thereof by the sheriff calculating such amount in pro­
portion to the amount of their several j utlgments: with costs, 
as the same will respectively bear to the amount of the sum
received, so that each attaching and judgment creditor will re­ 
ceive his just part thereof in proportion to bis demand," 
the clerk shall thereupon certify tho several amounts thereof to
the sheriff who shall pay over to the respective parties the sev­ 
eral sums so certified, and indorse such payments on their
respective executions: Provided; 'I'hnt when the property sought 
to be attached, shall have been removed from the county in 
which the attachment issued, and shall be overtaken and re­
turned to such county, the claim of such attaching creditor or
creditors shall have priority over other attachments or judg­ 
ments. 
SEC. 27. On proof hein~ made, before any judge or justice of 
the peace, or clerk of the district court, within this territory,
that a debtor is actuallv absconding, or concealed, or stands in 
defiance of rm officer duly authorized to arrest him on civil
proce5s as aforesaid, or has departed this territory with the in­ 
tention of having his effects and personal estate removed Gtlt 
of this territory, or intends to depart, with such intention, it
shall be lawful for the clerk to issue, and the sheriff or other 
officer to serve, an attachment against such debtor, on a Sunday
as on any other tiny, as is directed in this chapter. 
SEC. 28. 'I'he plaintifff or defendant in any attachment, the
garnishee and the sheriff or either of them, who may feel 
aggrieved by the judgment of the court, may prosecute writs of
error, and take appeals, as by law is provided in other cases;
and trials of the right of property m:iy he had in the same
manner as when property is taken iu execution. 
SEC. 29. Any defcudant in att.u-Innr nt, de:;;iring the return of 
the property attached. rn:ty, at his option, instead of the bond 
required in the ninth section of this chapter, give like bond
and security, in a sum sufficient to cover the debt and damages
sworn to in behalf of tho plaintifff, with all interests, damages
and costs of suit, conditioned that the defendant will pay the
plaintifff the amount of the judgment and costs which may be
rendered against him in that suit, on a final trial, within ninety
days after the judgment shall be rendered; in term time, a re­ 
cognizance, in substance as aforesaid, may be taken in open
court and entered of record; in which case, the court shall
approve of the security and recognizance made to the plaintifff;
in either case, the attachment shall be dissolved, and the prop­
erty taken, restored, and all previous proceedings, either against
the sheriff or against the garnishees, set aside, and the cause
shall proceed as if the defendant had been seasonably served
with a writ of summons. 
SEC; 30. Plaintiffs in any action of debt, covenant or tres­
pass, or on the case upon promises, having commenced their
action M actions by summons, or in any seire f 'acias to make the
defendant therein party to a judgment theretofore rendered,
having issued such scire facias, may at any time pending such
suit, and before judgment therein, on filing in the office of the
clerk where such action is pending, a sufficient affidavit and
bond, sue out an attachment against the lands and tenements,
goods and chattels, rights, monies, credits and effects of the de­
fendant, which attachment shall be entitled in the suit pending,
and be in aid thereof, and such proceedings shall be thereupon
had as are required and permitted in original attachments, in
all things as near as may be; and if it shall appcsr that the
defendant or defendants have not been served with process in
tho original suit, notice of the pendency of such suit, and of
the issue and levy of the attachment shall be published as is
required in cases of original attachment. 
SEC. 31. When anv attachment has issued out of the distriet
court, in any county," it shall be lawful for the plaintifff: at any
time before final judgment, without filing additional bond or
affidavit, to sue out a writ or writs of attachment to any other
county or co unties, or an alias or pluries writ to the same county,
which shall be levied or served as the plaintifff mny direct, and
returned as other writs of attachment :1:i Provided, That every
such writ shall be endorsed by the clerk with a memorandum of
what estate of the defendant, if any, hath been attached under
any former writ of attachment issued in the Harne cause, and
the officer to whom the same is directed shall thereon attach 
only so much of the defendant's estate as together with the es­
'8.te already attached may be sufficient to satisfy the plaintifff's
demand with costs. 
SEC. 32. The affidavit required in the :first section of this
chapter may be sworn to before any officer authorized by the
laws of this territory to administer oaths, or by any officer of
any state, territery or district of the United States, the fact that
the person administering such oath is, duly authorized, to be
proved in the same manner as in the acknowledgment and
authentication of deeds. 
SEC. 33. When two or more persons, not residing in this ter­
ritory, are jointly indebted, either as joint obligors, partners or
otherwise, then the writ or writs of attachment shall and may
be issued against the separate estate of such debtors, or any of
them, or against the heirs, executors or administrators of them
or either of thorn, and the lands and tenements, goods and chat­
tels, rights, credits and effects of such debtors, or either of
them, shall be liable to be seized and ta.ken for the satisfaction
of any just debt or other legal demand, and may be sold to
satisfy the same. 
Ssc. 3-!. 'I'his chapter shall be construed in all courts in the
most liberal manner for the detection of frauds. 
SEC. 35. 'I'he provisions of the chapter concerning practice in
civil cases, of the laws of this territory, shall be applicable as
well to proceedings in attachment, as to other cases. 
SEC. 36. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to require
notices to be published when the writ is returned personally
served on the defendant or defendants. 
SEC. 37. No citizen of this territory while absent in the mili­
tary service ef the United States or of this territory, shall by
reason of such absence be liable to suit by attachment. 
SEC. 38. W"henever any action hath been, or shall hereafter
be commenced by attachment, or whenever any attachment bath
issued or shall issue in aid of' any action at law, the de­
fendant may by a plea in abatement traverse any of the facts 
set forth in the affidavit whereon such nttachment issued or shall
issue, and upon issue of fact joined the, Ct)'.:, the court in which
such suit is pending shall cause a jury to be empaneled, who
shall try such issue of fact, and none other; in case the jury
ao empaneled shall find for the plaintifff upon that issue, the
court shall order that the defendant plead in bar, by some day 
to be fixed by the court; if such jury find for the defendant,
,he court shall order that the property attached be released, and
&he garnishees, if any, discharged, and that the defendant plead 
in bar or demur, by some day to be fixed by the court, and
,hereupon the cause shall proceed as if the same had been com­
menced by summons, and no attachment had issued therein. 
SECTIO~ 1. No person shall be permitted to practise as an
attorney or counsellor at law, or to commence, conduct, or de­
fend any action, suit, or plaint in which he is not a party con­
cerned, in any court of record within this territory, either by
using or subscribing his own name, or the name of any other
person without having previously obtained a license for that
purpose from some two of the j usticcs of the supreme court,
which license shall constitute the person receiving the same an
attorney and counsellor at law, and shall authorize him to ap· 
pear in all the courts of record within this territory, and there
to practise as an attorney and counsellor at law, according to the
laws and customs thereof, for and during his good behavior in
said practice, and to demand and receive all such fees as are or
hereafter may be established for any services which he shall or 
may render as au attorney and counsellor at law in this terri­
torv. 
SEC. 2. No person shall be entitled to receive a license as
aforesaid until he shall have obtained a certificate from the
court of some county of his good moral character, also a cer­
tificate from one or more reputable counsellors at law, that he
has been engaged in the study of the law for two successive
years prior to the making of such application. · 
SEC. 3. It shall be the duty of the supreme court to appoint
a standing committee of three attornets at law for each judicial
district of this territory, whose duty 1t shall be to examine all 
applicants for license as aforesaid; and if upou such examina­
tion a majority of said committee shall deem the applicant
qualified to practise as an attorney and counsellor at law in the
courts of this territory, they shall sign a certificate to that
effect, and transmit the same to the clerk of the supreme court. 
SEC. 4. It shall be the duty of the clerks of the supreme
court to make and keep a roll or record, stating at the head or
commencement thereof that the persons whose names are therein
written have been regularly licensed, and admitted to practise
as attorneys and counsellors at law within this territory; and
that they have duly taken the oath to support the constitution
of the United States, and the organic act of this territory, and
also the oath of office as prescribed by law, which shall be cer­
tified and endorsed on said license. 
SEc. 5. And no person whose name is not subscribed to or
written on said roll, with the day and year when the same was
subscribed thereto, or written thereon, shall be suffered or ad­
mitted to practise as an attorney or counsellor at law within
this territory, under the penalty hereinafter mentioned, anything
in this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding; and the justices
of the supreme court, in open court, shall have power, at their
discretion, to strike the name of any attorney or counsel1or at
law from the roll, for malconduct in his office. 
SEC. 0. In all cases where an attorney of any court of this
territory, or solicitor in chancery, shall have received, or may
hereafter receive in his said office of attorney or solicitor, in
the course of collection or settlement of any claim left with
him for collection or settlement, any money or other property
belonging to any client, and shall, upon demand made and a
tender of his reasonable fees and expenses, refuse or neglect to
pay over or deliver the same to the said client, or to any person
duly authorized to receive the same, it shall be lawful for any
person interested to apply to the supreme court of this terri­
tory for a rule upon the said attorney or solicitor, t€> show
cause at a time to be fixed by the said court, why the name of
said attorney or solicitor should not be stricken from the roll, a 
• 
copy of which rule shall be duly served upon said attorney or
solicitor at least ten days previous to the <lay upon which said
rule shall be made returnable; and if upon the return of said
rule it shall be made to appear to the said court that such attor­
ney or solicitor has improperly neglected or refused to pay over
or deliver said money or property, so demanded as aforesaid, it
shall be the duty of the said court to direct that the name of
the said attorney or solicitor be stricken from the roll of attor­
neys in said court. 
SEC. 7. Every attorney, before his name is stricken off the
roll, shall receive a written notice from the clerk of the suprttme 
court, stating distinctly the grounds of complaint, or the charges
exhibited against him, and he shall, after such notice, be heard
in his own defense, and allowed reasonable time to collect and
prepare testimony for his justification; and any attorney whese
name shall at any time be stricken from the roll, by order of the
court, in the manner aforesaid, shall be considered asthough
his name had never been written thereon, until such time as
the said justice, in open court, shall authorize him to sign or
subscribe the same. 
SEC. 8. All attorneys and counsellors at law, judges, clerks
and sheriffs, and a.11 other officers of the several courts within
this territory shall be liable to be arrested and held to bail, and
shall be subject to the same legal process, and may in all
respects be prosecuted and proceeded against in the same courts
and in the same manner as. other persons are, any law, usage or
custom to the contrary notwithstanding: Provided, nevertheless,
Said, judges, counsellors, attorneys, clerks, sheriffs, and other
officers of said courts, shall be privileged from arrest while 
attending courts, and while going to and returning from court. 
SBC. 9. No person who holds a commission as judge of any
district court, shall be permitted to practise as attorney or coun­
sellor at law in the court in which he presides as judge of the
district court, nor shall any coroner, sheriff; deputy sheriff, 
jailor or constable, be permitted to practise as aforesaid in the
county in which he is commissioned or appointed, nor shall any
clerk of the supreme court or district court be permitted to 
practise as an attorney or counsellor at law iu the court in which
he is clerk; and no person shall be permitted to enter his name
on tho roll or record to be kept as aforesaid by the clerk of the
supreme court, or do any official act .appertaining to the office
of an attorney or counsellor at law, until he hath taken an oath
to support the constitution of the United States, and the organic
act. of this territory; and the person adrniuistering such eath
shall certify the same on the license, which certificate shall be 
a sufficient voucher to the clerk of tho ~upreme court to enter
or insert, or permit to be entered o:· inserted on the roll of 
attorneys and counsellors at law the name of the person to
whom such certificate is made. 
SEC. 10. The following oath of office shall be administered te
every attorney and counsellor a, law before they subscribe the
respective rolls, to wit : I swear ( or affirm) that 1 will, in all
things, faithfully execute the duties of an attorney and coun­
sellor at law to the best of my understanding and abilities. 
SEC. 11. Any person producing a license or other satisfactory
voucher, proving that he hath been regularly admitted an attor­
ney at law in any court of record within the United States, and
that he is of good moral character, may be licensed and permitted
to practise as a counsellor and attorney at law, in any court in
this territory, without examination. 
SEC. 12. If any person not licensed as aforesaid shall receive
any money or auy species of property as a fee or compensation
for services rendered, or to be rendered by him as an attorney
or counsellor at law within this territory, all money so received
by him shall be considered M money received to the use of the
person paying the same, and may be recovered back with costs
of suit, by an action for money had and received; and all prop­
erty conveyed or delivered, for the purpose aforesaid, or the
value thereof, may he recovered back with costs of suit, by the
person conveying or delivering the same, by action of detinue
or trover and conversion, and the person receiving such money
or property, shall forfeit threefold the amount or value thereof,
to be recovered with costs of suit, before any magistrate, if
within a magistrate's jurisdiction, but if not, in any court of
record within the territory, by action of debt qui tarn, the one
half to the use of the person who shall sue for and recover the
same, and the other half to the use of the county in which such
suit shall be brought; and if any person shall sign, or cause to
be signed the name of any attorney or either of the justices of
the supreme court to any certificate or license, provided for in
this chapter, with intent to deceive, such person shall be
deemed guilty of forgery, and shall be prosecuted and punished 
accordingly. 
SEC.· 1.:J. Plaintiffs shall have the liberty of prosecuting, and
defendants shall have the privilege of defending, in their proper
persons, and nothing herein contained shall be so construed as
to effect any persons heretofore admitted to the degree of attor­
ney er counsellor at law in this territory so as to subject them
to further examination, or make it necessary for them to renew 
their license, 
SEO. 14. Wheu~ver any counsellor at law residing in any of
the adjacent states or territories, may have any business in any
of the courts of this territory, he may be admitted on motion
for the purpose of transacting such business, and none other. 
Ssc, 15. All public officers, sheriffs, coroners, jailers, consta­
bles, or other officers or persons having in custody any person
committed, imprisoned or restrained of his liberty, for any
alleged cause whatever, shall, except in cases of imminent dan­
ger of escape, admit any practising attorney at law in this terri­
tory, whom such person restrained of his liberty may desire to
see or consult, to see and consult such person so imprisoned,
alone and in private, at the jail or other place of custody; any
officer violating this provision shall forfeit and pay one hundred
dollars to the person a~grieved, to be recovered by action of
debt, in any court of competent jurisdiction. 
SEC. 16. No attcrney or counsellor at law or solicitor in
chancery shall become surety in any bond or recognizance of
any sheriff constable or coroner, or in any bond or recognizance
for the appearance of any person or persons charged with any
public offense; or upon any bond or recognizance authorized
by any statute, to be taken for the payment of any sum of
money into court, in default of the principal, without the con­
sent of a judge of the district court first had, approving said
surety. 
SEC: 17. All attorneys and counsellors at law shall have a
lien upon any money or property in their hands, or upon any 
judgment they may have attained belonging to any client, for
any fee or balance of fees due, or any professional services
rendered bv them in anv court of this territory, when Maid lien 
may be enforced by the "proper civil action. ~ 
SEC. 18. Nothing in this chapter shall hi construed so
as to prevent any male citizen over the n6e of twenty-one years,
of good moral character, from practising as an attorney in the 
probate courts of this territory, without having obtained a
license as an attorney, as provi<lcd hcrei n. 
SECTION 1. The several district courts of this territory, in all
causea of which they may have jurisdiction as courts of chan­ 
cery, shall have power to proceed therein, according to the mode
hereinafter prescribed; and where no provision is made by this 
chapter, according to the general usage and practice of courts
of equity or agreeably to such rules as may be established by 
the said courts in that behalf. 
SEC. 2. The mode of commencing suits in equity shall be,
by :filing a bill, setting forth the nature of the complaint, with 
the clerk of the district court in the county within whose juris­
diction the defendants, or the major part of them,1 if inhabi­
tants of this territory reside ;2 or if the suit may affect real
estate, in the county where the same, or a grenter part thereof,
shall be situated ;3 if the defendants are all non-residents, then 
whh the clerk ef the district court, in any county. Billa for 
injunctions to stay proceedings at law, shall be filed in the office
of the district court, in the county in which the record of the 
proceedings had shall be.
SEc. 8. In suits for the payment or recovery of money, set,. 
offs shall be allowed, in the same manner and with like eff~
as in actions at law. 
SEC. 4. Suits in chancery may be commenced and prosecuted
by infants, either by guardians or next friend. 
SEC. 5. Upon the filing of every bill as aforesaid, the clerk
of the court aforesaid, shall thereupon issue a summons, directed 
to the sheriff of the county in which the defendant resides, if 
the defendant be a resident of this territory, requiring him to 
appear and answer the bill on the return-day of the summons;
and where there are several defendants, residing in different
counties, a separate summons shall 'be issued to each county, in­
cluding all the defendants residing therein. 
SEc. 6. Every summons shall be tested in the name of the
clerk of the court out of which it may issue, shall bear the seal
of the court and the signature of its clerk, shall be dated or 
the day it issues, and be made returnable to the next term or 
the court after the date thereof. 
SEc. 7. Service of summons shall be made, by reading the
same to the defendant, or leaving a copy at his usual place or 
abode,' with some white person of the family, of the age of ten
years or upwards, and informing such person of the contents.
thereof; which service shall be at least ten days before the re­
turn-day of the summons. 
SEC. 8. Whenever any complainant shall file, in the office of 
the clerk of the court in which his suit is pending, an affidavit;
showing that any defendant resides or hath gone out of this
territory, or on due inquiry, 'cannot be found, or is concealed
within this territory, so that precess cannot be served upon him,
the clerk shall cause publication to be made in some newspaper 
published in his county, and if there be no newspaper pub­
lished in his county, then in a new:-spaper published in this ter­
ritory, containing notice of the pendeucy of such snit, the names
of the parties thereto, the title of the court, and the time and
place of the return of the summons in the case; such publica­
tion to be made for four successive weeks, the first of which
shall be at least thi rty days before the return-day of such sum­
mons," But this proceeding shall not dispense with the usual
exertion, on the part of the sheriff to servo the summons," 
SEC. 9. If thirty clays shall not intervene, between filing such
affidavit and the return-dnv of the su mruons, and the summons
shall not be served, the cause shall be contiunorl to the next
term; if thirty days shall intervene as aloresnid, or if service
of process shall be made, and the defendant shall not appear on
the return-dav of the surnmous, the bill ma v L0 taken for con- 
fessed. " · ., 
SEC. 10. If, for want of due publication or service, the cause
shall be continued, the same proceedings shall be had at the
succeeding term of the court, as rnay have been had at the
term to which said summons shall be returnable. 
·S&c. 11. If', in any suit in chnnc-rv, the process shall not be
returned, executed, on the return-day thereof, the clerk, if re­
quired, shall issue an olio«, pluric», or other proee;-;:c-:, without
an order of the court therefore. 
SEC. 12. 'l'he complainant rnay cause a copy or the bill or
petition, together with a. notice of tl.e commencement of the
suit to be delivered to any defendant residing or being without
this territory, not less than thirty <lays previous to the com­
mencement of the term at which such defendant is req uired to
appear; which service, when proved to the satisfaction of the
court, by the oath or deposition of any pcr:-on competent to be
a witness in the cause, shall be as effectual, as if such service
had been made in the usual form, within the limits of this ter­
ritory. 
SEC. 13. When any bill is taken for confessed, the court mny
make such decree thereon as may be just, and may enforce such
decree, either by sequestration of real and personal estate, by 
attachment against the person, by causing possession of real
and personal estate to be deli vcred to the party entitled thereto,
or by ordering the dqmand of the complainant to be paid out 
of the effects or estate sequestered, or which are included in
such decree, and by the exercise of such other powers as per­
tain to courts or chancery, and which may be necessary for the
attainment of justice. 
SEC. 14. A decree for money shall be a lien on the lands and
tenements of the party against whom it is entered, to the same
extent and under the same limitations, as a judgment at law. 
SEC. 15. When any final decree shall be entered against any
defendant, who shall not have been summoned or notified to
appear, as required by this chapter, and such person, his heirs,
devisees, executor, administrator, or other legal representative,
as the case may require, shall, within one year after notice in
writing given him or them, of such decree, or within three
years after such decree, if no such notice shall have been given
as aforesaid, appear in open court and petition to he heard
touching the matter of such decree, and shall pay such costs as 
the court shall deem reasonable in that behalf; the person so
petitioning, may appear and answer the complainant's bill,' and
thereupon such proceedings shall be had, as if the defendants
had appeared in due season, and no decree had been made.
The decree shall, after three years from the making thereof, if
not set aside in the manner aforesaid, be deemed and adjudged
confirmed against such non-resident defendant, and all persons
claiming under him, by virtue of any act done subsequent to
the commencement of such suit: and at the end of the said
three years, the court may make such further order in the
premises, as shall be required, and shall be just. 
SEC. 16. If the defendant shall be brought into court by vir­ 
tue of any process, being in contempt for refusing to appear,
and shall continue to refuse or neglect to enter his appearance.
or appoint a solicitor of the court to do it for him, according 
to the provisions of this chapter or the rules of said court,
then, and in that case, the court may appoint a solicitor to enter
an appearance of such defendant, and such further proceedings
may be had in the said cause, as if the party had actually ap­
peared. 
SEC. 17. The judges of the district courts, in their respective
-disrricts, mav establish rules of proceeding in chancery, and 
make all needful orders and regulations, consistent with the
practice of the courts of chancery in cases not provided for by
law.8 
SEC. 18. Every defendant who shall be summoned, according 
to the provisions of this chapter, shall file his exceptions, plea,
demurrer or answer to the bill, at the time to which the process
of summons shall be returnable. If he fail to do so, the bill
may be taken for confessed, but for good cause shown, the cours
may extend the time for excepting or pleading, and the court
may thereupon enter an interlocutory decree, which may bo ab·
solute at the next term, and carried into effect as other :final de­
crees. If the defendant shall appear at the next term and offer
to file his answer to the bill, the court may permit him to do
so, upon his showing sufficient cause and paying the costs of
the preceding terms; in such case the decree shall be vacated,
and the cause may be proceeded in as in other cases. 
SEC. 19. Where a bill is taken for confessed, the court, before
a final decree is made, if deemed requisite, may order the com­
plainant to produce documents and witnesses to prove the alle­
gations of his bill, or may examine him on oa.th or affirmation
touching the facts therein alleged ;9 such decree shall be made 
in either case as the court shall consider equitable and proper. 
SEC. 20. Every answer shall be verified by one oath or
affirmation taken before and certified by a judge or justice of
the peace or notary public in this territory, or the clerk of the
court in which the action is pending, or before a judge or jWJ­
tice of the peace, or other person authorized to administer an
oath in the state, territory, kingdom or empire, in which the 
defendant may be, or reside, the official character of such officer,
if out of this territory, being attested by the seal of some court
of record within such state, territory, kingdom or empire. 
SEC. 21. When a bill shall be filed in the court of chancery,
other than for discovery only, the complainant may waive the
necessity of the answer being made on the oath of the defend­
ant; and in such cases the answer may be made without oath,
and shall have no other or greater force, as evidence, than the 
bill.
SEC. 22. When an answer shall be adjudged insufficient, the 
defendant shall file a further answer" within such time as the
court shall direct, and, on failure thereof, the bill shall be taken 
as confessed ; if such further answer shall likewise be adjudged
insufficient, the defendant shall file a supplemental answer and 
pay all costs attendant thereon; if that shall be adjudged insuf­
ficient, the defendant may be proceeded against for contempt, 
and the like proceedings be had thereon, to enforce the order of
the court, as mother cases of contempt. 
SBC. 28. Every defendant shall answer fully all the allegations 
and interrogations of the complainant, except such as are 11oi
zequired to be answered by reason of exceptions, plea, or de­ 
murrer thereto allowed. 
SEO. 24. Any defendant may, after filing his answer, exhibit
and file his cross-bill containing interrogatories to the com­
plainant, and call upon him to file his answer thereto, in such
wne as may be prescribed by the rules of. the court," 
Sso, 25. The complainant shall, in such case, be held to ex­
pept, plead, demur, or answer to such cross-bill, in the same
manner that the defendant is required to except, plead, demur,
or answer to an original bill, and his answer shall be evidence
in the same manner as the defendant's answer to the bill. 
S:sc. 28. If the complainant shall fail to answer such inter­
rogatories, his bill or petition shall be dismissed with costs, or
the new matter set out in the defendant's cross-bill, shall be 
taken as confessed, and a decree entered accordingly.
SEc. 27. Where it is necessary for the defendant to bring a 
new party before the court, he shall state, in his answer, and in­
sert interrogatories for him in his answer, and a subpoena shall
be issued, and other proceedings had, as in the case of other de.
fendants. 
SEC. 28. No complainant shall be allowed to dismiss his bill
after a cross- bill has been filed, without the con.sent of the de­ 
fendant. 
SEC. 29. The complainant shall not be compelled to file his
answer to any cross-bill until the defendant shall have filed • 
sufficient answer to the complainant's bill. 
SEc. 30 . .A 
l exceptions to answers to interrogatories e.xhib ..
ited by t;;'-' defendant as aforesaid, shall be filed within such
time as the court may direct, and be argued at such time as t~ 
1 
· court may appoint ; if the complainant's exceptions be over­
ruled, he shall pay costs to the defendant, and if the defendant's
answer be adjudged insufficient, he shall pay costs to the com ..
plainant. 
SEC. 31. Replications shall be general with the like advantage
to all parties as if special, and shall he filed in four days after
the answer, if in term time, or, if such answer be filed in va­
cation, the plaintifff or his attorney shall have notice thereof. 
SEC. 32. After replication is flied, the cause shall be deemed
at issue, and stand for hearing, or in default of filing such rep­
lication, the cause may be set for hearing on the bill, and
answer; in which case the answer shall be taken as true, and 
no evidence shall be received, unless it be matter of record to
which the answer refers.12 
SEC. 33. When the complainant shall require a discovery re­
specting the matters charged in the bill, the disclosure shall
not be deemed conclusive; but, if a replication be filed, may
be disproved or contradicted like any other testimony accord­
ing to the practice of courts of equity. 
SEC. 34. 'I'he said district courts, when sitting as courts of
equity, may extend the time for answering, replying, pleading,
demurring, or joining in demurrer, and may permit the parties
to amend their bills, petitions, pleas, answers, and replications, 
on such terms as the court may deem pr<,per, so that neither.
party be thereby surprised or delayed. · 
S.Ec. 35. 'I'ho said d istr ict courts may, in their discretion, di­
rect an issue or issues to he tried by a jury whenever it shall be
judged necessary, in any cause in equity; the mode of trial
shall be the same a~ has been heretofore practised in courts of
equity. In every such case the order of the court may specify
and set down the issue, or issues, to be tried by the jury, so as 
to avoid the nccessitv of formal pleading, as heretofore practised," · 
SEc. 3o. Whenever an execution shall have been issued
against the propcrr._v of a defendant, on a judgment at law, or
in equity, and shall havo been returned unsatisfied in whole or
in part," the party suing ont such execution, may file a bill in
chancery, against such defendant, and any other person, to com­ 
pel the discovery of' nny property, or thing in action belonging
to the defendant; and of any property, money, or thing in ac­
tion due to him, or held in trust for him, and to prevent the
transfer of any such property, money1 or thing in action, or the
payment or delivery thereof to the defendant, except when
such trust has been created by, or the fond so held in trust has
proceeded from some person other than the defendant himself. 
SEC. 37. 'I'he courts shall have power to compel such discov­
ery, and to prevent such transfer, payment or delivery, and to
decree satisfaction of the sum remaining due upon such judg­
ment, out of any personal property, money, or things in action,
belonging to the defendant, or held in trust for him, with the
exception above stated, which shall be <liscovered by the pro­
ceedings in chancery, whether the same were originally liable
to be taken in execution at law or not, provided that no answer 
made to any bill filed under this and the preceding section,·
shall be read in evidence against the defendant on the trial of 
any indictment for the fraud charged in the bill. 
SEC. 38. If, in any suit or action now pending, or which shall
hereafter be brought in any court of chancery, there are, or 
shall be two or more complainants or defendants, and one or
more of them die, if the cause of such action or suit survive to
the surviving complainant or complainants, or against the sur­
viving defendant or defendants, such action shall not thereby
be abated, but such death being shown and suggested to the
satisfaction of the court, such suit or action shall proceed at
the suit of the surviving complainant and against the surviving
aefendant or defendants. 
SEC. 39. When there shall be two or more complainants or
defendants, in any suit or action in chancery, as aforesaid, and
any of them die, and the cause of action do not survive, but
other persons shall become parties in interest, in right or by
the death of such deceased party, such snit or action shall, by
reason of such death, be abated only with respect to such de­
ceased party; the surviving complainant or complainants, may
proceed against the surviving defendant or defendants, without
reviving the suit against the representatives of the deceased
party, or any other, who may become interested by the death of
such party, but in such case, such representatives or other persons
becoming interested by the death of such party,shall not be bound
by any order or decree in such cause to which they are not made
parties ; and they may be made parties in the manner provided by
law in similar cases. 
SEC. 40. In all cases where all the complainants or defend­
ants many suit now pending, or hereafter to be brought in any
court of chancery, shall die before final decree, such suit or ac­
tion shall not thereby be abated; but may be revived in the
name of the legal representatives of the deceased, or other per­
son becoming interested in the cause of action by the death of 
such party. 
SEC. 41. In all suits in chancery, and suits to obtain title to
lands, in any of the courts of this territory, if there be persons
interested in the same, whose names are unknown, it shall be
lawful to make such persons parties to such suits or proceed­
ings, by the name and description of persons unknown, or un­
known heirs, or deviseea of any deceased person, who may
have been interested in the subject-matter of the suit previous
to his or her death; but in all such cases an affidavit shall be
:filed by the party desiring to make any unknown person party,
stating that the names of such persons are unknown, and pro­
cess shall be issued against all parties by the name and descri:e­
tion given as aforesaid, and notices given by publication, as rs
reiuired by section eight of this chapter, shall be sufficient to 
authorize the court to hear and determine the suit, as thc,ugh 
all parties had been sued by their·proper names. · 
SEC. 42. All decrees, orders, judgments, and proceedings made
or had, with respect to such unknown persons, shall have the 
same effect, and be as binding and conclusive upon them, aa
though suit or proceedings had been inatituted against them by
their proper names. 
SEc. 43. Whenever a decree shall be made in any suit in
equity, directing the execution of any deed or other writing,
and the party against whom the same shall have been entered,
shall not comply therewith, within the time required, it shall
be lawful for the court to appoint a commissioner to execute the
same ; the execution thereof, by such commissioner, shall be as
valid in law, to pass, release, er extinguish the right, title and
interest of the party on whose behalf it is executed, as if it 
had been executed by such party in proper person, in conform·
ity with such decree; and such deed or other writing, if it 
relate to land, shall, within six months after its execution by
such commissioner, be recorded in the office of the recorder of
the county wherein the land lies. 
SEC. 44. In all cases where a sale of property is decreed, the
court may direct the same to be made, for cash, or on such
credit, and on such terms as may be deemed best and most
equitable to the interests of the several parties. 
SEC. 45. All decrees given in ca.uses in equity in this territo­ 
ry, shall be a lien on all real estate respecting which such de­
cree shall be made, and whenever by any decree, any party to
a suit in equity shall be required to perform any act, other
than the payment of money, or to refrain from performing aay
act, the court may, in such decree, order that the same shall be
a lien upon the real or personal estate, or both, of such party
until such decree shall be fully complied with; and such lien
shall have the same force and effect, and be subject to the same
limitations and restrictions as judgments at law. 
SEC. 46. When there shall be no master in chancery, or com­
missioner to execute a decree, the same may be carried into
effect by execution, or other final process, according to the na­
ture of the case, directed to the sheriff or other officer of the
proper county; which, when issued, shall be executed and re­
turned by the sheriff or other officer, to whom it may be di­
rected, and shall have the same operation and force as similar
writs issued upon a judgment a, law.1G The sheriff or other
officer, to whom the same is directed, shall be subject to the 
like penalties and recoveries for misconduct or neglect in the
execution or return thereof as in cases at law; or the court 
may, if necessary, direct an attachment to -be issued against the 
party disobeying such decree, and fine or imprison him, or both,
in the discretion of the court, and may alsd.nirect a sequestralion for disobedience of any decree. : . ·: . 
SEC. 47. In any cause in equity, it shall be lawfu'lfGr the court
in which the cause is pending, to appoint a guardian ad litem,
to an infant or insane defendant in such cause, whether such infant or insane defendant shall have been served with pro51ess or
not, and to compel the person so appointed, to act. By such
appointment, such person shall not be rendered liable to~·pay
costs of suit, and he shall, moreover, be allowed a reasonable ·
sum for his charges as such guardian, to be paid by the party-aa .
whose motion he was appointed, to be taxed in the bill of costs. . 
SEC. 48. The several district courts of this territory, shall
have power to appoint, in eaeh county, a master in chancery,
or may, in their discretion, appoint two masters in chancery.
Every master in chancery, heretofore or hereafter appointed,
sball hold his office during the pleasure of the court, for which
he was appointed. 
SEC. 49. Every master in chancery, before entering on the
duties of his appointment, shall give bond, with security, to be
approved by the court, in the penalty of ten thousand dollars, 
conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of his
office, and take and subscribe an oath of office; which bond
and oath shall be filed with the clerk of the court making the
appointment. 
S1w. 50. Masters in chancery. in their respective counties,
shall have power to take depositions, both in law and ert uity; 
to administer oaths; to compel the attendance of witnesses;
and, in the absence of the district judge presiding in such 
county, to order the issuing of writs of 1,ab,·r,.~ rr>rpu,.<;, i,~ exeat 
and injunctions," and perform all other duties, which, nccor<ling
to the laws of this territory and the practice of the courts of
chancery, appertain to the office. 
SEC. 51. Whenever ii shall happen that there shall be no
master in chancery in any county, or where such master shall 
be of counsel to either party interested, or otherwise disq uali­
fied or unable to act, in any suit or matter, the court may
appoint a special master, to perform the duties of the office, in 
all things concerning such suit or matter. 
SEC. 52. Masters in chancery shall receive for their services
such compensation as shall be allowed by law, to be taxed as
other costs. 
SEC. 53. Whenever a vacancy occurs in the office of muter
in chancery, in anJ. county in this territory, under the provisions
of this law, it s}u(t!· ~e the duty of the judge of the district
court of such ce~fy to fill such vacancy, by appointment, u
soon thereafter·.~ .conveniently ma~ be. 
S:e:c. 54 .• Whenever any master in chancery shall have re­ 
signed hi.,·~ce, or shall have been removed therefrom, and
shall ha:'fe.!e·rt any business pertaining to his office, unfinished,
it sha}l·.b&fawful for his successor or successors in office, to do
any~f-itr acts, coming within the duties of the master, which
IW}y·ba.'ve been left undone by his predecessor or predecessors, 
~nd•;w hich may be necessary to the final completion of such
:·:q~nisbed business. . 
:··::._SEC, 55. Masters in chancery, in their respective counties,
•• 'upon application, in manner as now is provided by law, to be 
made to the proper judge, shall have power to grant and order
the issuing of writs of certiorari, to remove causes from l-1 .orc
justices of the peace and probate judges, into the district court. 
SECTION 1. The territory of Colorado shall be and hereby is
divided into three judicial districts: The counties of Arapa­
hoe, Douglas, Weld, Lake, Park, Summit and Saguache, com­
pose the first judicial district. The counties of Gilpin, Boulder,
Clear Creek, Jefferson and Larimer, compose the second judicial
district. The counties of El Paso, Fremont, Pueblo, Huerfano,
Coatilla, Conejos and Las Animas, compose the third judicial
district, All that part of the territory which is not included
in any or the counties aforesaid, whether the same be Spanish
grants, Indian reservations or other territory, and which lies
north of a line running east and west through the most south­
erly point of Douglas county, shall be included in and consti­
tute part of the first judicial district. All that part of the
territory which is not included in any of the counties aforesaid,
whether the same be Spanish grants, Indian reservations or
other territory, and which lies south of the line running east
and west through the most southerly point of Douglas county,
shall be included within and constitute part of the third judi­
cial district. 
SRc. 2. Terms of the district court shall hereafter be held in
the said districts at the county-seats of the several counties
therein, as the said county-seats now are or hereafter may be
established, commencing on the days following, in each and
every year, that is to say: In the first judicial district as fol­
lows: In the county of Arapahoe on the third Tuesday of
January, on the first Tuesday of May, and on the first Tuesday of
October. Int-he county of Douglas on the first Tuesday of
March. In the county of Weld on the second Tuesday of
March and the third Tuesday of September. In the county of
Park on the third Tuesday of July. In the county of Summit 
on the first Tuesday of August. In the county of Lake on the
third 'I'uesday of August. In the second judicial district as
follows: In the county of Jefferson on the first Tuesday in
March, and the fourth Tuesday in September. In the county of
Boulder on the third Tuesday in January, and the third Tues­
day in July. In the county of Clear Creek on the third Tues­
day in April, and the first Tuesday in October. In the county
of Gilpin on the first Tuesday in May, and the first Tuosday in
November. In the county of Larimer on the third Tuesday in
October. In the third judicial district as follows: In the county
of Pueblo on the first Tuesday in April, and the fourth Tues­
day in October. In the county of Costilla on the third Tues­
day in August. In the county of Fremont on the first Tuesday 
in August. In the county of El Paso on the third Tuesday in
March. · 
Terms of court for transacting business arising in the first ju­
dicial district under the constitution and laws of the United
States, shall be held at the county-seat of Arapahoe county at
the times herein provided for holding courts at that place. 
Terms of court for transacting business arising in the second
judicial district, under the constitution and laws of the United 
States, shall be held at the county-seat of the county of Gilpin,
at the times herein provided for holding courts at that place. 
Terms of court for transacting business arising in the third
judicial district under the constitution and laws of the United
States, shall be held at the county-seat of the county of Pueblo,
at the times herein provided for the holding of courts at that
place : Prouidal, · 'I'hat no term of said district court shall be
held in said Boulder county in January, A. D. 1868, but in 
lieu thereof, a term shall be held on the third Tuesday of
March. • . 
SEc. 3. The county of Saguache rs attached to the county of
Lake for judicial purposes. The counties of Huerfano and Las
Animas are attached to the county of Pueblo for judicial pur­
poses. The county of Conejos is attached to the county of
Costilla for judicial purposes. 
SEc. 4. All causes, actions, and proceedings, civil and crimi­
nal, instituted, pending, or brought in any court of this territo­
ry, in which process has been issued prior te the passage of
this chapter, returnable to any term of court as provided by 
. existing laws, shall be deemed and held to be pending in such
courts at the term provided in this act, next succeeding the
term to which such process shall have been made returnable;
and such process shall be deemed and held returnable to the 
· term of such courts provided in this chapter next succeeding
the term to which the same has been made returnable: Pro­
vided, That in all cases in which a term of any court shall, by 
this chapter, be required to be held prior to the time at which
process shall have been made returnable, according to existing
laws as aforesaid, it shall be lawful for the parties to the astion
in which such process shall have been issued, to sue out, and
for the clerk of any court, in which such action shall be pend­
ing, to issue other process returnable to the term of such court
provided by this chapter, and thereafter the suit, action, or
proceeding shall proceed as if the same had been originally
brought to the term of such court fixed by this chapter; and, 
Provided, further, That in suits instituted by attachment, when
the writ shall have been made returnable as aforesaid, a new
writ may be issued, returnable to the next term of the court
out of which the same shall have been issued or fixed by this
chapter, and returnable as provided by existing laws; and it
the same shall not be served upou the defendant or defendants
named therein, such defendants shall be notified by publication
to appear at the next term of such court as fixed by this chap­
ter, in the way and manner provided by existing lawa; and
thereupon the court shall proceed in the same manner as in other
suits of the same nature instituted to such term. All suits,
actions, causes and proceedings, civil and criminal, now pending
in the district courts of any of the counties of this territory,
respectively, shall be deemed and held to be pending in the
district courts of said counties respectively, as named and des­
ignated by this chapter : Provided, That nothing in this chapter
contained shall be deemed to adjourn the term of the district
court of, in and for the county of Arapahoe, now pending, prior
to the first Tuesday of May next. 
SEC. 5. The district court of the third judicial district within
and for the county of Pueblo, at the first term thereof which
shall be held, shall order a change of venue in all cauees, issues
and proceedings, civil and criminal, now pending and undeter­
mined in that court which haee originated within the said county
of Fremont, or in which the defendants or a majority of them
reside in the said county of Fremont, to be made to the district
court of the said county of Fremont ; and such causes, issues
and proceedings shall be certified and transmitted as in other
eases of change of venue; and when so certified and trans­
:taitted, sueh.causes, issues and proceedings shall be deemed and
held to be pending in the said district court of Fremont county,
and that court shall proceed to adjudicate and determine the
aame. In criminal proceedings in which the venue shall be
changed as aforesaid, the aaid district court of Pueblo county
shall have power to make all orders that may be necessary to
secure the attendance of defendants and of witnesses at tlae 
term of the said district court of Fremont county next succeed­
ing the time when the venue shall be changed as aforesaid. In 
the same manner and with like power and effect the said district
court of Pueblo county shall change the venue in causes, issues
and proceedings, civil and criminal, pending therein, which
have originated in, or the defendants wherein, or a majorit{ of
them, reside in the county of El Paso, to the said county o El
Paso. In like manner and with like power and effect the said
district court within and for the county of Costilla shall change
the venue in causes, issues and proceedings, civil and criminal,
pending therein which have originated within, or the defendants
wherein reside within, the said ceunty of Saguache, to the said
county of Lake. In the same manner and with like power and
effect the district court within and for the said county of Weld,
shall change the venue in all causes, issues and proceedings
pending therein which have originated, or the defendants where­
m, or a majority o{. them, reside within the said county of Lar­
imer, to the said con_Jµ,y of Larimer. 
SEC. 6. In cases where two or more counties are attached for
judicial purposes, as herein, each county sba1l be liable for the
expenses incurred by the same, on account or by reason of said
courts, and the clerk of each court shall, at the conclusion of
each term, or within thirty days thereafter, make out and cer­
tify under the seal of said court a correct account of all the
expenses incurred at said term by each of the counties attached
to the one in which said term of court is held, and transmit the
same to the board of commissioners of such county incurring
such expenses who shall at the first meeting thereafter audit 
the same antlorders on the county treasurer for the payment thereof t . e parties entitled thereto, as in other cases of 
payment of n~ expenses. 
Sze, 7. In any county attached to another for judicial pur­
poses, when the same is organized, process shall issue to the 
sheriff of such county in all cases where the defendant or de­
fendants reside, or where the matter or thing in dispute i1 
situated, in such county, to which such process is sent. 
SEC. 8. In cases where two or more counties are attached for
judicial purposes as provided in this act, jurors shall be
summoned from the several counties so attached in proportion,
as near as may be, to the population and business of said
counties respectively. 
SEC. 9. At any regular term of the district court as pr~
by this act, within any county, such court may by an o
be entered of record, appoint a special term of the district colll"41.
within and for such county, to be held at any future time, when 
by law the judge of such district court i1 not required to attend
upon and hold a term or the district court in any other county
within such district; and the court may in such order specify 
and direct whether a grand jury, or a petit jury, or both or 
neither, shall be summoned to attend at such term, and that
such term shall be a term for the return of summons, and other
mesne process, to be issued in causes to be thereafter com­
menced therein ; or that the same shall be for the trial of causes
and issues then pending, only. 
SEC. 10. In case a grand or petit jury is required to attend
any such special term of the court, the same shall be chosen
and summoned as now provided by law in the case of the reg­
ular terms of such district courts. 
SEC. 11. The Ilon. Moses Hallett, chief justice of the supreme
court of the territory, is hereby assigned to. the third judicial
district, and shall hold terms of the district court thereof, in
the several counties thereof, at the times and places provided by
law. The Hon. William R. Gorsline, associate justice, is here­
by assigned to the second judicial district, and shall hold terms of
the district court in the several counties thereof, at the times
and places provided by law. The Hon. Christian S. Eyster,
associate justice, is hereby assigned to the first judicial district"
and shall hold terms of the district ceurt in the several counties.
thereof, at the times and places provided by law. The suc­
cessors in office of the several judges hcreinbefore assigned to
the several districts respectively, shall hold the terms of court
as provided in this act, in the said several districts respectively. 
SEC. 12. Whenever the judge assigned by law to any judicial
district shall in writing request the judge assigned to another
district to hold any term of court in the district to which the
judge making such request shall have been •igned, it shall
be lawful for the judge receiving such requ~ upon filing the
same with the clerk of the court so to be hold~fi't'tO hold such
term in like manner and with like effect as if the same were
holden by the judge assigned to such district. 
SBC. 13. Whenever it shall happen that either of the justices
of the supreme court of this territory shall be unable by reason
of sickness, absence from the territory, or any other cause, to
hold any stated term of the district court in the judicial dis­
trict to which he ·is assigned, it shall be lawful for the governor
to assign any other justice of the supreme court specially to
hold said term ; and all proceedings, orders, judgments and de­
crees had, made and pronounced at the term so held by the
justice so specially assigned, shall have the same force and
validity as if the said court were held by the justice assigned
gene tally to said district. 
SEC. 14. Whenever it shall happen that any justice of, the
supreme court shall fail to reach the place appointed for hold·
ing 'any stated term of the district court by two o'clock in the
aflernoon of that day, it shall be lawful for said clerk to ad· 
journ said court to Monday of the ensuing week, and discharge 
the jurors, witnesses and recognized persons in attendance until
that time; and in case of such adjournment, all proceedings, 
aotione, motion! and orders, shall be deemed to be continued
over until the day of the adjournment, and all jurors, witnesses
and recognized persons shall be under the same obligations to
appear at the court at such adjourned day as they were to ap­ 
pear upon the day first appointed. 
SEC. 15. The clerk of the district eourt in each district shall
appoint a deputy or deputies in each county in his district
wherein a district court is by law required to be held, the judge
ef the district court for such district approving all such ap­
pointments; and every such deputy shall have power to execute
the duties of the clerk within the county for which he is appointed. · 
SEO. 16. The several acts entitled as follows, to wit: .An act
concerning clerks of the court, approved November 8, A. D. 
1861; An act amendatory of an act concerning clerks of the
court, approved August 15, 1862; An act to divide the territory
of Colorado into judicial districts, and to provide for the hold­
ing of courts in the same, approved February 10, 1865; and
the two acts severally entitled an act amendatory of an act to
divide the territory of Colorado into judicial districts, and to 
provide for the holding of courts in the same, and severally
-approved January 11, 1867; and all other acts and parts of acts
in conflict herewith are hereby repealed. 
SEC. 17. This act shall take effect from and after its passage. 
~- 
81:cTION 1. The action of ejectment may be brought in the 
eases and manner usual at common-Jaw, subject to the -pro­
visions hereinafter contained. 
SEC. 2. It may also be brought in the same cases in which '.a
writ of right may now be brought by law to recover lands,
tenements or hereditaments, and by any person claiming an
estate therein in fee or for life, either as heir, devises or pur­
chaser, or the right to occupy and possess the same. 
SEO. 3. No person shall recover in ejectment unless he has
at the time of commencing the actien a valid subsisting interest
in the premises claimed, and a right to recover the same, or to
recover the pessession thereof, or of some share, interest or
portion thereof, to be proved and established at the trial.' 
SEC. 4. If the premises for which the action is ·brought, are
actually occupied by any person, such actual occupant shall be
named defendant in the declaration; if they arc not so occu­
pied, the action shall be brought against some person exercising
acts of ownership on the premises. claimed, or claiming title
therete or some interest therein, at the commencement of the
suit.2 
S:e:c. 5. The action of ejectment shall hereafter be commenced
by the filing of a declaration in the office of the district court
of the proper county, whereupon a summons shall issue directed
to the sheriff for service as in other cases. And in all cases in
ejectment where the said summons shall be served ten days be­
fore the first day of the term of court to which the said sum- 
mons is returnable, the defendant or defendants shall be required
to plead, and the said cause shall be set for trial a1 is provided
in other cases. The sheriff shall serve the said summons by
reading to the defendant, or, in case they cannot be found in the
county, then by delivering a copy of said summons to some
person of the family of the defendant of the age of ten years
or upwards, who shall be found residing at the dwelling-house
of said defendant. 
SEO. 6. The us~ of fictitious names of plaintifffs or defendants,
and of the names of any other than the real claimants and the
real defendants, and the statement of any lease or demise to
the plaintifff and of an ejectment by an actual or nominal
ejector, are hereby abolished. 
SEC. 7. It shall be sufficient for the plaintifff to aver in his decla­
ration, that on some day therein to be specified, and which shall
be after his title accrued, he was possessed of the premises ia
question, (describing them r.s hereinafter provided) and being 
80 possessed thereof, that the defendant afterwards ( on some
day to be stated) entered into such premises, and that he unlaw­
fully withholds from the plaintifff the possession thereof, to hia
damage-any nominal sum the plaintifff shall think proper to
state ; and the premises so claimed shall be described in such
declaration with convenient certainty, so that from such de­
scription, possession of the premises claimed mar be delivered.
If such plaintifff claims any undivided share or interest in any
premises, he shall state the same particularly, in such declare­
tion. 
SEO. 8. The plaintifff shall in every case state in his declara­
tion whether he claims in fee, or whether he claims for bis own
life or the life of another, or for a term of years, specifying
sueh life or the duration of such term; or if suoh plaintifff
claims the right to occupy and possess the premises, under the
local laws of any mining district or otherwise, the declaration
shall contain a brief statement of such claim, and whether the
same be by pre-emption or purchase.3 
Ssc, 9. In any case the declaration may contain several couats,
and several parties may be named as plaintifffs, jointly in one
count, and separately in others. 
S:sa. 10. A defendant in ejectment may, at any time before
pleading, apply to the court, or to any judge thereof, in vaca- 
. uon, to compel the attorney for the plaintifff to produce to such
court or officer, his authority for commencing the action in the
name of auy plaintifff therein; such application shall be accom­
panied by an affidavit of the defendant, that he has not been
served wita proof, in HY way, of the authority of the attorney
to use the name of the plaintifff, stated in the declaration. 
SEC. 11. Upon such application, the court or officer shall
grant an order, requiring the production of such authority, and 
shall atay all proceedings in the action until the same shall be
produced. Any written request of such plaintifff, or his agent,
to commence such action, or any written recognition of the
authority of the attorney to commence the same, duly proved
by the affidavit of such attorney, or other competent witneu,
shall be sufficient presumptive evidence of such authority. 
S~c. 12. If H shall appear that previous to such application
by any defendant, he was served with a copy of the affidavit of
the plaintifff's attorney, showing his authority to bring such
action, such application shall be dismissed; and such defendant
shall be liable for the costs of such application, the payment of
which may be compelled by attachment, as in other cases,
which may be issued upon proof of disobedience to the order
of the court or officer directing the payment of such costs. 
SEC. 13. The defendant may demur to the declaration, as in
persenal actions, or be shall plead the general issue only,'which
shall be that the defendant is not guilty of unlawfully with·
holding the premises claimed by the plaintifff; as alleged in the
declaration; and the filing of such plea or demurrer shall be
deemed an appearance in the cause; and upon such plea, the
defendant may give the same matter in evidence, and the same
proceedings shall be had as upon the plea of not guilty, in the
present action of ejectment, except as herein otherwise pro­
vided; the defendant may likewise give in evidence any matter
which if pleaded in the present writ of right would bar the
action of the plaintifff. 
SEC. 14. The consent rule heretofore used is hereby abol­
iahed. 
SBC. 15. It shall not be necessary for the plaintifff to pron
an actual entry under title, nor the actual receipt of any of the
profits of the premises demanded, but it shall be sufficient !or
him to show a right to the possession of such premises at the
time of the commencement of the suit, as heir, deviaee, pur­
chaser or otherwise. 
SEO. 16. It shall Mt be necessary oa the trial, for t·he defend·
allt to confess, nor for the plaintifff' to prove lease and ouster, -or 
either of them, except as provided in the next section ; but
this section shall not be construed to impair, nor in any way to 
effect any of the rules of evidence now in force, in regard h
the maintenance and defense of the action. 
S:e:c. 17. If the action be brought by one or more tenants in
oommon, or joint tenants, against their co-tenants, the plaintifff;
in additioa to all other evidence which he may be bound to give,
shall be required to prove on the trial of the cause, that the
defendant actually ousted such plaintifff, or did some other aot
amounting to a total denial of his right as such co-tenant. 
S:e:o. 18. If the aetion be brought agains; several defendants,
and a joint possession of all be proved, the plaintifff shall l,e 
entitled to a verdict against all, whether they shall haTe plead·
ed separately or jointly. 
S:e:o. 19. When the action is against several defendants, if it 
appear on the trial that any of them occupy distinct parcels in
severalty or jointly, the plaintifff shall elect at the trial against
which he will proceed, which electionshall be made before the tes­
timony in the cause shall be closed, and a verdict shall thereupon
be readered for the defendants not so proceeded against .. 
SEC. 20. In the following cases, the verdict shall be rendered
as follows: 
First, If it be shown on the trial that all the plaintifffs have a
right tr> recover the possession of the premises, the verdict in
that respect shall be for the plaintifffs generally. 
Second, If it appear that one or more of the plaintifffs have a
right to the possession of the premises, and that one or more 
have not such right, the verdict shall specify for which plaintifff 
the jury find, and as to which plaintifff they :find for the de­
fendant. 
Third, If the verdict be for any plaintifff, and there be several
defendants, the verdict shall be rendered against such of them
as were in possession of the premises, or as claimed title there·
to at the commencement of the action. 
Fourth, If the verdict be for all the premises claimed as spec·
Hied in the declaration, it shall in that respect be for such prem·
ises generally. 
Fifth, If the verdict be {or a part of the premises described
in such declaration, the verdict shall particularly specify such
part, as the same shall have been proved, with the same certain· 
ty hereinbefore required in the description of the premises
claimed. 
Sixth, H the verdict be for an undivided share or interest in
the premises claimed, it shall specify such share or interest, and 
if for an undivided share in a part of the premises claimed, ii 
shall specify such share, and shall describe such part of the
premises as hereinbefore required. 
Seventh, The verdict shall also specify the estate which shall
l'lave been established on the trial by the plaintifff in whose
faTor it shall be rendered," whether such estate be in fee for his
own life, or for the life of another, stating such lives, or whether 
it be for a term of years, specifying the duration of such term,
or whether the plaintifff hath established only his right to the
possession and occupancy of the premises in controversy. 
SEC. 21. If the right or title of a plaintifff in cjcctment ex· 
pire, after the commencement of the suit, but before trial, the 
verdict shall be returned according to the fact, and judgment
shall be entered, that he recover his damages by reason of the
withholding of the premises by the defendant, to be assessed,
and that as to the premises claimed, the defendant go thereof
whhout day. 
SEC. 22. 'I'he action of ejectment shall not be abated by the
death of any plaintifff; or of one of several defendants, after
issue and before verdict and judgment, but the same proceed­
ings may be had. as in other actions, to substitute the names of
those who may succeed to the title of the plaintifff so dying, in
which case, the issue shall be tried as between the original par­
ties; and in case of the death of a defendant, the cause shall
proceed against the other defendants," 
SEC. 23. In cases where no other provision jg made, the judg­ 
ment in the action, if the plaintifff prevail, shall be that the
plaintifff' recover the possession of the premises, aceording to
&he verdict of the jury, if there was such verdict ; or if the
judgment be by default, according to the description thereof in 
the declaration, with costs, to be taxed. 
SEC. 24. The plaintifff recovering judgment shall be entitled 
to a writ sf posseasion, which shall be substantially in the fol­
lowing form :7 
THE PEOPLE, &c., to the sheriff &c.: Whereas, A. B. has
l_a~ely, in the district court, held in and for the county of--, 
by the judgment of the said court, recovered aga.inst C. D., one
messuage, &c., ( describing the premises recovered, with the like
certainty as above provided), which said premises have been
and are still unjustly withheld from the said A. B._ by the said
C. D., whereof he is convicted as appears to us of record, and
his said judgment against the said C. D., according to the force,
form and effect of his said recovery. Wherefore, we command
you, that without delay, you deliver to the said A. B. possession
of the premises so recovered, with the appurtenances, and that
you certify t0 &c., at &c., on &c., in what manner you shall have
executed this writ; (if there be costs to be collected, the proper
clause may be here inserted, or a separate execution may be is1Ued therefore.) Witness, &c. 
S:e:c. 25. Every judgment in the action of ejectment, rendered
upon a verdict, shall be conclusive, as to the title established in
such action, upon the party against whom the same is rendered,
and against all persons claiming from, through or under such
party, by title accruing after the commencement of such action,
subject to the exceptions hereinafter named.8 
SEC. 26. The court in which such judgmentshall be rendered,
at any time within one year thereafter, upon the application of 
the party against w horn the same was rendered, his heirs or as­ 
signs, and upon the payment of all costs and damages recovered
thereby, shall vacate such judgment, and grant a new trial in 
such cause ; and the court upon subsequent applicatien, made
withiR one year after the rendering of the second judgment in 
said cause, if satisfied that justice will thereby be promoted,
and the rights of the parties more satisfactorily ascertained and 
established, may vacate the judgment and grant another new
trial; but no more than two new trials shall be granted under
this section," 
SEc. 27. Every judgment in ejectment rendered by default,
shall from and after two years from the time of entering the
saine, be conclusive upon the defendant, and upon all persou
claiming from or through him by title accruing after the com- 
mencement of the action ; but within two years after the enter­
Ing of such judgment, on the application of the defendant, his
heirs or assigns, and upon the payment of all costs and dam­
ages recovered thereby, the court may vacate such judgment,
and grant a new trial, if such court shall be satisfied that jus­
tice will be promoted, and the rights of the parties more satis­ 
factorily ascertained and established. 
SEC. 28. But if the defendant, at the time of the entering of
the judgment by default, be either, first, within the age of
twenty-one years; or second, insane; or thi'rd, imprisoned
on any criminal charge, or in execution upon some conviction
of a criminal offense, for any term less than for life; or fourth,
a married woman ; the time d u ring which the disability shall eon­
tinue, shall not be deemed any portion of the said two years, but
any such person may bring an action for the recovery of such
premises after that time, and within two years after Ruch disa­
bility shall be removed, but not after that period. 
SEC. 29. If the person entitled to commence such action shall
die during the continuance of any disability specified in the
preceding section, and no determination or judgment be had of
or upou the title, right or action so to him accrued, his heirs
may commence such action after the time above limited for that
purpose, and within two years after his death. 
Ssc. 80. If the plaintifff shall have taken possession of the
premises by virtue of any recovery in ejeetment, such posses­
sion shall not in any way be affected by the vacating of •any
judgment as herein provided ; and if the defendant recover in
any new trial hereby authorized, he shall be entitled to a writ
of possession, in the same manner as if he were plaintifff. 
SEC. 81. Upon any new trial granted as herein provided, the
defendant may show any matters in bar of a recovery, w hich he
might show to entitle him to the possession of the premises, if
he were plaintifff in the action. 
SEC. 82. The plaintifff recovering judgment in ejectment in
any of the cases in which such action may be maintained, shall
also be entitled to recover damages against the defendant for the
rents and profits of the premises recovered. 
SEC. 83. Instead of the action of trespass for mesne profits
heretofore used, the plaintifff seeking to recover such damages
shall within one year after the entering of the judgment make
and file a suggestion of such claim, which shall be entered with
tlrn proceedings thereon upon the record of such judgment, or
be attached thereto as a. continuation of the same. 
S1w. 34. Such suggestions shall be substanrially in the same
form as is now in use for a declaration in an action of a3sump- 
1it, for use and occupation as near as may be; and it shall be 
served on the defendant in the same manner hereinbefore pre­
scribed, respecting the service of a summons in ejectment; and
the same rules of pleading thereto, shall be observed as upon
declaration in personal actions. 
Sim. 35. The defendant ma.y plead the general issue of non
assumpsit, and under such plea may give notice of, or may
plead specially any matter in bar of such claim, except such as 
were or might have been controverted in such action of eject­
ment, but he may plead or give notice of a recovery by such
defendant or any other person of the same premises, or of part
thereof, subsequent to the verdict in such action of ejectment, in
bar or in mitigation of the damages claimed .by the plaintifff. 
SEc. 36. Ir any issue of fact be joined on such suggestion, it
shall be tried as in other cases; and if sueh issue be fsund for
the plaintifff, the same jury shall assess his damages to the
amount of the mcsne profits received by the defendant since he
entered into possession of the premises, subject to the restric­
tions hereinafter contained. 
SEC. 37. On the trial of such issue, the plaintifff shall be re­
quired to establish, and the defendant may controvert, the time
when such defendant entered into the possession of the premi­
ses. The time during which he enjoyed the mesne profits of
the premises shall not be evidence of such time. On such
trial, the defendant shall have the same right to 'sei-off any im­
provements made on the premises to the amount of the plaint­
iff's claim, as is now, or shall hereafter be allowed by law, and
in estimating the plaintifff's damages, the value of the use by
the defendant of any improvements made by him, shall not be
allowed to the plaintifff. 
SEC. 38. If no issue of fact be joined on such suggestion, or
if judgment thereon be rendered against the defendant by de­
fault, on demurrer, or otherwise, a writ of inquiry to assess the
value of such mesne profits shall bo issued, of the execution ot 
which the same notice shall be given to the defendant or his at­
torney, as in other cases. 
SEC. 39. Upon the execution of such writ, the plaintifff shall
be required to establish the same matters herein before required
in the case of an issue being joined; and the defendant may in
like manner controvert the same, and make any set-off to w hich
he shall be entitled, and the jury shall assess the damages in the
same manner; the same proceedings shall be had on such writ,
and it shall be returned as in other eases, with the inquisition
taken thereon; upon such inquisition, or upon the verdict of
the jury, in the case of the issue being joined, the court shall
render judgment as in actions of asaumpsit for use and occupa­
tion, which shall have the like effect in all resrecta. 
SEC. 40. If the plaintifff in ejectment shal have died after 
issue joined on the judgment therein, his personal representa­
tives may enter a suggestion of such death, of the granting let­
ters, testamentary or of administration, to them, and may sug­
gest their claim to the mesne profits of the premises recovered,
in the same manner and with the like effect as the deceased ;
and the same proceedings in all respects shall be had thereon. 
SEC. 41. In all cases in which any persen has heretofore en­
tered upon and occupied, or shall hereafter enter upon and oc­
cupy any lands, tenements or hereditaments within this terri­
tory, by virtue of any lease or permit from the United States, or
this territory, such person, his, her or their heirs or assigns, may
have and maintain an action of ejectment against any person
who has or may enter upon such lands, tenements or heredita­
ments without the consent of such lessee, his, her or their heirs
or assigns, and proof of the right of possession shall be suffi­
cient to authorize a recovery. 
SEC. 42. It shall not be necessary in trials of ejectment,
when it shall appear by the return that the defendant or defend­
ants were in possession of the premises at the time when the
suit was brought, for the plaintifff to prove that said defendant
or defendants were in possession at the time of bringing such
suit, unless the defendant or defendants shall by special plea
deny that he, she or they were in possession; and the plea of
not guilty shall not put in issue the possession of the said premises, anything in this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding. 
SEc. 43. Every person who may hereafter be evicted from any
land for which he can show a plain, clear and connected title in
law or equity, deduced from the record of some public office,10 
without actual notice of an adverse title, in like manner derived
from record, shall be exempt and free from all and every species
of action, writ or prosecution for or on account of any rents or
profits, or damages which shall have been done, accrued or in­
curred at any time prior to receipt of actual notice of the ad­
Terse claim by which the eviction may be effected': Provided,
such person obtained peaceable possession of the Jarid . 
. '·. 
SECTION 1. The printed statute books of the United States,
and of the several states and territories, printed under the au­
thority of such states and territories, the books of reports of
decisions of the supreme court and other courts of the United
States and of the several states and territories, published by
authority of such courts, may be read as evidence, in all courts
of this territory, of such acts and decisions. 
SEC. 2. Copies of the proceedings and judgments before jus­
tices of the peace, certified by such justice or justices under
their hands and seals, before whom such proceeding or judg­
ment is had, shall be received as evidence of such proceeding
or judgment; where such certified copy is to be used in any
other county than where the justice resides, tho same shall not
be received as evidence, unless a certificate from the county
clerk be thereto annexed, certifying that on the day the pro­
ceeding was had or the judgment rendered, such justice was a
justice of the peace, duly commissioned and sworn. 
SEC. 8. The official certificate of any regish;r or receiver of
any land office of the United States, to any fact or matter on
record in his office, shall be received and held competent to
prove the fact as certified.1 The certificate of any such register, 
of the entry or purchase of any tract of land within his dis­
trict, shall be deemed and taken to be evidence of title in the
party who made such entry or purchase, or his heirs and as­
signs; but a patent for land shall be deemed and considered a
better legal and paramount title in the patentee, his heirs or
assigns, than such register's certificate of entry and purchase of
the same land.2 
SEC. 4. An exemplification by the secretary of the territory,
of the laws of the several states and territories, which may be
transmitted by order of the executives or legislatures of such
states, to the governor of this territory, and by him deposited 
in the office sf the said secretary, shall be admissible as evi­
dence, in any court of this territory. 
SEC. 5. In trials of actions upon coutructs, expressed or im­
plied, where the action is brought by partners, or by joint
payees or obligees, it shall not be nceec::~ry for the plaintifff: in
order to maintain any such action, to prt>Ve the copartnership 
of the individuals named in such action, o ;' to prove the christian
or surnames of such partners or joint p:tyees or obligecs, but
the names of such copartners, joint p~y,.: ~:; or obligees shall be
presumed to be truly set forth in the t1 .claration, petition or
bill: Provided, 'I'liat nothing herein coutu.uod shall prevent the
defendant from pleading in abatcrnc.: t, as heretofore, or of
proving on the trial either that mor : p-.:rsons ought to ha ve
been made plaintifffj,. or that more pc:. .ms have been made
plaintifffs than Lave a. legal right to sue, in which event the de­ 
fendaut's right shall be as at common-l.rv.." 
SEC. 6. In action upon contracts, exprc.,3 or implied, against 
two or more defendants, alleged to have l.cen made or executed
by such deleurlnnts as partners or joint ol.ligors or rx1yors, proof
of the joint liability or partnership of the defendants, or their
christian or suruarncs, shall not in the fir~~ instance be required
to entitle the plaintifff to j udgrnent, uulcss such proof shall be
rendered nece:,.~ary by the filing of pleas denying the execution
of such writing, verified by affidavit as required by law.4 
SEC. 7. Copies of all papers, books or proceedings, or parts
thereof appertaining to transactions in their corporate capacity,
of any town or city now incorporated, or that may hereafter be
incorporated under any general or special law of this territory, 
certified to be true copies by the clerk or keeper of the same, 
under the seal of such town or city, or under the private seal 
of said clerk or keeper, if there be no public seal, the clerk
or keeper also certifying that he is entrusted with the safe-keep­ 
ing of the original, shall be received as prima f 'acie evidence of
the facts so certified in any court in this territory. 
SEC. 8. When the testimony of a non-resident witness or wit­
nesses shall be necessary in any civil cause depending in :my
court of law or equity in this territory, it shall be lawful for
the party wishing to use the same, on giving the opposite party
or his attorney," ten days' previous notice," together with n. copy
of the interrogatories intended to be put to such witness or wit­
nesses, to sue out from the proper clerk's office a dcdimue p()les­ 
iatem. or commission under the seal of the court, directed to 
any number of persons not exceeding three, as commissioners,
or to any judge or justice of the peace of the county where such
witness may reside authorizing him or them to cause such wit­
ness or witnesses to come before him or them, at such time and
place as he or they may appoint, and fait l.fully to take his, her
or their deposition or depositions upon all such iutcrrogatorics
as may be iuclosed with, or attucl.cd to said co nuuission, both
ou the part of the plaintifff and Jefrn1hnt, and none others, and
to certify the same when thus taken, to~..:::thc:r with the suid com­ 
mission and interrogatories, into the court in which such cause 
shall be depending, with the least possible delay. 
SEC. 9. When the testimony of any re~:itL·nt witness or wit­ 
nes.scs shall be nc~c:;:;n.ry in any suit in ch:rnc,;'.'}7 in tlii» territory,
it sh.il l be lawful for the party wishing to use the sauic, to cause
the deposition or depositions of such witness or witnesses to be
taken, before any justice of the peace, notury-public, or clerk of 
the district court of the count1 wherein such witness or wit­ 
nesses shall reside, without being required to sue out a com­
mission, er to file interrogatories for that purpose, on giving to the
adverse party or his attorney reasonable notice of the time and
place of taking the same ;8 and it shall also be lawful, upon 88.t·
isfactory affidavit being filed, to take the depositiena of wit­
nesses residing in this territory, to be read in suit! at law, in
like manner as is above provided, in all cases where such wit­
ness or witnesses shall reside in a different county from that in
which the court shall be held; is or are about to depart from.
this territory; is or are confined in jail on legal process ; or is
or are unable to attend such court on account of advanced age,
or sickness, or other bodily infirmity : Provided, That sueh
reasonable notice shall be intended to mean at least ten days, in
all cases, and one day in addition thereto, Sundays inclusive,
for every thirty miles travel from the place of holding the
court to the place where such deposition or depositions shall be
taken. 
SEo.10. Previous to the examination of any witness whose
deposition is about to be taken as aforesaid, he or she shall be
sworn (or affirmed) by the person or persons authorized to take
the same, to testify the truth in relation to the matter in con­
troversy, so far as he or she may be interrogated,9 whereupon
the said commissioner or commissioners, judge, justice of the
peace or clerk (as the case may be) shall proceed to examine
such witness, upon all such interrogatories as may be inclosed
with or attached to any such commission as afcresaid.and which
are directed to be put to such witness; or where no such com­
mission shall be necessary, upon all such interrogatories, as
may be directed to be put by either party litigant, and shall
cause such interrogatories," together with the answers of the
witness thereto to be reduced to writing in the order in which
they shall be proposed and answered, and signed by such wit­
ness, after which it shall be the duty of the person or persons
taking such deposition, to annex at the foot thereof, a certifi­
cate subscribed by himself or themselves, stating that it was
sworn to" and signed by the deponent, and the time and place 
when and where the same was taken,12and every such deposition
when thus taken and subscribed, and all exhibits produced to 
the said commissioner or commissioners, judge, justice of the
peace or clerk as aforesaid, or which shall he proved or referred
to by any witness, together with the commission and interroga­
tories, if any, shall be inclosed, sealed up, and directed to the
clerk of the court wherein the action is pending, with the
names of the parties litigant indorsed thereon :13 Provided, Tha\
when any deposition shall be taken as aforesaid by any judge
or justice of the peace, out of this territory, such return shall
be accompanied by a certificate of his official character, under
the great seal of the state, or under the seal of the proper court
of record of the county or city wherein such depositions shall
be taken. 
Sze, 11. Every examination and deposition which shall be
taken and returned according to the provisions of this chapter,
may be read as good and competent evidence in the cause in
which it shall be taken, as if such witness had been present and
examined by parol in open court, on the hearing or trial
thereof.14 
SEC. 12. Each and every person authorized, and who may be
required to take depositions in any case, shall have power and
authority to issue subpoenas, and if necessary, to compel the at­
tendance of all such witnesses as may be named in the com­
mission, or by the parties litigant: where no commission is nec­
essary, in the same manner and under the same penalties as is
provided in other cases where witnesses are directed to be sub­ 
pcenaed. 
~EC. 13. Every person attending as a witness before any com­
missioner, judge, justice or clerk as aforesaid, shall be entitled 
to a compensation for his time and attendance, and travelling ex­
penses at the same rate, for the time being, as is or shall be al­
lowed to witnesses. by law, attending courts of record in this
territory, and the party requiring such examination shall pay 
the expenses thereof; but may if successful in the suit, be al­
lowed for the same in the taxation of costs. 
SEc. 14. The party, his attorney, or any person who shall in
anywise be interested in the event of the suit, shall not be per·
mitted to dictate, write or draw up any deposition or depositions
which may at any time be taken under this chapter, and every
deposition so dictated, written or drawn up, or that shall be re­
turned to the court unsealed, or the seal of which shall be
broken, shall be rejected by the court as informal and insuffi­
cient: Prooidcd, Such seal shall have been broken previous to
its reception by the clerk to whom it shall be directed. 
SEc. 15. It shall not be lawful for any party litigant, or the
clerk of the court into whieh any deposition may be returned
as aforesaid, to break the seal of the same, either in term-time
or in vacation, unless by permission of the court, and if an7 
such person or clerk shall presume to open any such deposi­ 
tion when ta ken and returned as aforesaid, without such per­
mission as aforesaid, he shall be considered guilty of a contempt
of court, and may be punished accordingly: Provided, That it
shall not be considered an offense for the clerk to break open
any such deposition as aforesaid, where it is doubtful from the
indorsemcnt made thereon whether the same be a deposition or
not, but in such case it shall not be proper for such clerk to
permit any person to examine any deposition which ma.y be
thus opened by mistake, until permission shall have been first
given by the court, as aforesaid. 
SEC. 16. All depositions taken in pursuance of this chapter,
when returned into court, may be read by either party on the 
trial of the causes to which they relate.
SEC. 17. In all case! where any person or persons shall desire 
to perpetuate the remembrance of any fact, matter or thing,
which may relate to the boundaries en improvements of land,
name or former name of watercourses, the name or former
name of any portion or district of country, regarding the
ancient customs, laws or usages of the inhabitants of this coun­
try, as far as the same may relate to the future settlement of 
the land-claims, or touching the marriage or pedigree of any
person or persons, or in relation to the title of slaves or ser­
vants, or any other matter or thing necessary to the security of
any estate real or personal or mixed, or any private right what­
ever, it shall be lawful for such person or persons, upon filing a
petition supported by affidavit in the district court of the proper
county, setting forth particularly the fact or facts intended to be
established, to sue out from such court a dulimu» potestaiu oi or
commission, directed to any two justices of the peace, or to any
clerk of the district court of the county wherein such testimony 
is to be taken, and may thereupon proceed to take such deposi­
tion or depositions as shall be prayed for in said petition. 
SEC. 18. It shall be the duty of the person suing out such
dedimus as aforesaid, before proceeding to take such deposition
as aforesaid, to give at least four weeks' notice of the time and
place where the same is to be taken, together with a copy of
the petition annexed thereto, to each and every person who
may be known to be interested in the subject-matter of such
deposition, or to bis, her or their attorney; or iu lieu of such
written notice, such petitioner may cause such notice, with a
copy of the petition, to be addressed to the persons known
to be interested, as well as to all others whom it may concern,
to be published for four successive weeks in some new~paper
printed in this territory, the last publication to be at least four
weeks prior to the <lay of taking such deposition. 
SEc. 19. The manner of taking such deposition and the pro­
eecdings thereon, shall be the same as specified in section ten of
this chapter, and the answers reduced to writing in the English
or in the language of the wituess: Provided, lunoeoer, 'I'hat the
clerk of the district court, to whom the deposition is transmit­
ted, shall enter the same at large upon the records and return
the original to the person for whose benefit it was taken. 
SEC. 20. All depositions taken in manner and form as provid­
ed in the foregoing section, or a duly certified copy of the rec­
ord of such deposition, may in case of the death of any such
deponent, or in case of inability to give testimony in conse­
quence of his, her or their insanity or imbecility of mind or
body, or where such witness shall be rendered incompetent by
judgment of law, or in the event of his, her or their removal,
so that their testimony cannot be had in the ordinary way on
trial, be used as evidence in any case to which the same may re­
late: Provided, That nothing herein contained shall be so con­
strued as to prevent any legal exception being taken an<l allowed
to the reading of any such deposition, in any trial at law or in 
equity, in which the same may be introduced as evidence. 
SEC. 21. Whenever the deposition of any witness or wit· 
nesses is desired to be read in evidence in any civil cause depend.
ing in any court of this territory, wlu-tber in law or equity, in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, when neither
the adverse party in such cause, nor his attorney, resides within 
the limits of this territory, after affidavit of such non-residence 
being filed with the clerk of the court in which the cause is
pending, the notices provided for in this chapter may be given 
by posting said notices at the door of the court-house of the
eeunty where the suit is pending, and fil iug interrogatories,
when required by this chapter, in the ofllco of the clerk of said 
court, at least four weeks prior to suing out a commission or
taking depositions as the case may be. 
SECTION 1. The district courts in term-time, and any judge
thereof in vacation, or in case of the absence of the judges
from the county, the master in chancery, shall have power to
grant writs of injunction; no writ of injunction shall be grant­
ed, to stay proceedings under a judgment obtained before a
justice of the peace, for a sum not exceeding twenty dollars be­
sides costs. 
SEC. 2. When any injunction shall be granted to stay a suit
or judgment at law, the proceedings shall be had in the county
where the judgment was obtained or the suit is pending, and
the writ of subpoena may be sent, in the first instance, into any
county within this territory, where the defendant resides. 
SEC. 3. No inj unction shall be granted to stay any j udgruent
at law, for a greater sum than the complainant shall sliow him­
self equitably not bound to ~ny, and so much as shall be suffi­
cient to cover costs; every injunction, w lien granted, shall oper­
ate as a release of all errors, in the procccdiugs at law that are
prayed to be enjoined; no injunction shall be issued, unless the
complainant shall have previously executed a bond, with suffi­
cient surety, to the defendant, approved by the court or judge
granting such injunction, and filed with the clerk, in double the 
sum directed to be enjoined, conditioned for the payment of all
money and costs due, or to be due, to the plaintifff in the action
of law, and also, all such costs and damages as shall be awarded
against the complainant, in case the injunction shall be dis­
solved; or such bond may be entered into before the clerk of
the district of the county where the writ is required to be is·
sued, the court or judge granting tho injunction, having first
approved the security; if the injunction be dissolved in whole 
or in part, the complainant shall pay, exclusive of legal interest
and costs, such damages as the court shall award, not exceeding
ten per cent., on such part as may be released from the injunc­
tion; and the clerk shall issue execution for the same, when he
issues execution on such judgment. 
SEC. 4. If any person against whom a writ of injunction shall
be issued, shall after the service thereof, be guilty or disobe­
dience to, and breach of, the said injunction, it shall be lawful
for the judge granting the same, or if the same were granted in
open court, then for any j u<lge of that court, in vacation, to is­
sue an attachment against the said person, for a contempt; upon
his being brought before the said judge, unless he shall dis­
prove or purge the said contempt, the said judge may, in his
discretion, commit him to jail until the sitting of the court in
which the said injunction is pending, or take bail for hie ap­
pearance in the said court at the next term thereof, to answer
for the said contempt, and to abide the order of the court 
thereon. 
SEC. 5. Whenever application shall be made for a writ of injunction, the party intending to make such application shall
give notice to the opposite party of the time and place of
making such application, at least six days prior to making the
same: Provided, That if such application shall be made to the
court in term-time, in a cause pending in such court, in which.
the defendant or defendants shall have been served with pro­
cess, ten days prior to the term at which such application shall
be made, or if the complainant shall file an affidavit showing
that irreparable mischief or injury will result to him if notice
be given, or that the case is too urgent to admit of the delay incident to giving notice, or where it appears from the bill of
complaint that the defendant or defendants may commit the
acts concerning which injunction relief is sought, before the
motion can be heard, no such notice shall be required, but the
court or judge shall proceed to hear the application ex paste. 
SEC. 6. In all causes in which writs of injunction may be issued, the defendant or defendants may, at any time after filing a 
demurrer plea or answer to the bill of complaint, and whether
in term-time or in vacation, move the court, or if application
shall be made in vacation, the judge thereof, to dissolve the in­
junction; if the defendant or defendants shall have filed a plea
or answer to the bill, it shall be lawful for the parties respec­
tinly, upon the hearing of such motion, to introduce testimony 
i:a. support of the bill, and plea or answer; and the court or
judge shall decide such motion upon the weight of testimony.
without being bound to regard the plea or answer as absolutely
true. If at or before the time designated for the hearing of
such motion, the complainant, or some credible perso11 for him, 
shall make and file in the cause an affidavit showing the com­
plainant hath a witness or witnesses by whom he can disprove
the answer, or some material part thereof, giving the name or
names of such witness or witnesses, his or their place of abode,
and the particular faets which the complainant will prove by
him or them, and that the complainant bas had no opportunity
to procure the testimeny or such witness, since the coming in
of the plea or answer, the court or judge, if satisfied that the
testimony of such witness or witnesses will be material upon
the hearing of such motion, shall grant a continuance of the
hearing, for such reasonable time as may be necessary to enable
the complainant to procure the testimony of such witnesses;
affidavits filed with the bill, plea or answer, and the depositions
of witnesses in writing, taken and certified, aa in other cases in
chancery proceedings, may be heard and shall be considered bl
the eourt or judge upon the hearing of such motion, and deposi­
tions taken for the purpose of being read at such hearing, may
be read on the final hearing of the cause in which they have
been taken: Provided, That in all cases in which notice shall
be given of an application for an injunction, as provided in sec­
tion five of this chapter, no motion for the dissolution of such
injunction shall be beard or made in vacation. 
SEC. 7. Whenever the judge of any district court in this territory shall be absent from this territory, or shall be unable to 
discharge the duties of his offlce., a~y p~rsqn desiring to apply
for a writ of injunction, or to move for the diasolution of an 
injunction, as provided in this chapter.. ~ay apply to either of
the justices of the supreme court, in tho same manner a.nd with
the like effect as if such application was made to the judge of
the district court having jurisdiction of the cause. 
SEO. 8. In all cases in which an. application to dissolve an in­
junction shall be made to the judge of any district eourt in va­
cation, as provided in this chapter, it shall be lawful for such
judge to continue such injunction, or to dissolve the same, in
the same manner and with the like effect as if the application
was made to the court in term-time. 
SEO. 9. It shall not be necessary to the granting of any in­
junction that the complainant's bill be first filed in the court out
of which such writ is prayed, but the order of the judge or r..ny 
court to whom any bill is presented, praying such injunction,
ma.y direct that Buch injunction issue upon the filing of the com­
plainant's bill, with the bond required by the third section. 
SECTION 1. All and singular the goods and chattela,1 lands,
tenements, and real estate of every person against whom any 
judgment shall be obtained, in any court of record, either at 
law or in equity, for any debt, damages, costs, or any other sum
of money, shall be liable to be sold on execution, to be issued 
upon such judgment,2 and the said judgment shall be a lien3 on 
such lands, tenements, and real estate, from the last day of the
term of the court in which the same may be rendered, for the
period of seven years : Provided, That execution be issued at
any time within one year, on such judgment; and from and
after the said seven years the same shall cease to be a lien on
any real estate, as against bona fide purchasers or subsequent
encumbrancer by mortgage, judgment, or otherwise: Provided,
That in case the party in whose favor any such judgment shall
have been entered shall be restrained by injunction out of 
chancery, or order of any judge or court, either from issuing
execution or selling thereon, the time which he shall be so re­
strained shall not be deemed or considered as any part of the
said seven years. The term real estate in this section, shall be 
construed to include all interest of the defendant, or any person 
to his use, held or claimed by virtue of any deed, bond, cov­ 
enant, or otherwise, for a conveyance, or as mortgagor of lands,
in fee for life, or for years:' 
S•o. 2. When any judgment shall have become &. lien, aa
aforesaid, and the defendant happen to die before execution 
shall have been issued thereon, the remedy of the person in
whose favor the said judgmeat shall have been rendered shall
not be delayed or suspended by reason of the nonage of any
heir, or heirs, of such defendant; but no execution shall issue
upon such judgment until the expiration of one year after the
death of such defendant, nor shall any law of this territory
which gives no preference to the claims of a creditor of a de·
ceased debtor, be so construed as to impair or affect the lien of 
any judgment a! aforesaid."
SEO. 3. The legal holder or holders, by record, of any certif­ 
icate of purchase of lands, of the United States, shall be deemed
to be within the true intent and meaning of this chapter. 
S:1c. 4:. In all executions, to be issued upon judgments recov­
ered upon contracts expressed or implied, it shall be lawful to
direct the collection of interest on the said judgment frem the
time of recovering the same until paid, at the rate of ten per
cent. per annum. 
S.Bo. 6. It shall be lawful for the party in whose favor any
judgment as aforesaid may be obtained, to have execution, in
the usual form, directed to any county in this territory, against
the goods, chattels, lands and tenements, of such party defend- 
ant, or upon his body, when the same is authorized by law. 
SEO. 6. Nothing herein shall restrain or prevent any execution from being issued against the body of any defendant, where 
the judgment shall have been obtained for a tort or trespass,
committed by such defendant. 
SEO. 7. No execution shall be issued against the body, or
against the goods and chattels, lands and tenements, of any
heir, executor or administrator, unless such person shall have
made his estate liable to the same debt, by false pleading or 
otherwise.
S:&o. 8. All executions shall be made returnable ninety daya 
after date, and no writ of execution shall bind the pr. operty or
the goods and chattels of any person against whom such writ 
shall be issued, until such writ shall be delivered to the sheriff,
or other officer, to be executed ; and for the better manifesta~on of the said time, the sheriff or other officer shall, on the
receipt of every such writ, indorse upon the back thereef the 
hour, day of the month, and year, when he received the same.• 
SEC. 9. The plaintifff in execution, may elect on what prop­
erty he will have the same levied, except the land on which the 
defendant resides," which shall be last taken in execution, ex­
cepting and reserving, however, to the defendant in execution
such property as is, or may be, by law exempted from execu­
tion. 
SEc. 10. When any property, real or personal, shall be taken
in execution, if such property is susceptible to division, it shall
be sold in such quantities as may be necessary to satisfy such 
execution and costs.8 ,. 
SEC. 11. No lands or tenements shall be sold, by virtue of
any execution aforesaid, unless such sale be at public vendue, 
and between the hours of nine in the morning, and the setting
of the sun the same day, nor unless the time and place of hold­
ing such sale shall have been previously advertised, for the
space of twenty days, by publishing notices of the time and
place thereof in some daily or weekly newspaper printed and
published in the county where such lands and tenements are
1ituate; or if there be no such newspaper printed in the county,
by posting such notices, printed or written, or partly printed
and partly written, in three of the most public places in the
county where the lands may be situated, specifying the names
of the plaintifff and defendant in the execution; and in all such
notices, the lands or tenements to be sold shall be described,
with reasonable certainty, by setting forth their number, or by 
some ether appropriate description; and if auy sheriff or other
officer shall sell any lands or te:aements, by virtue of any such
execution, otherwise than in the manner aforesaid, or witheut
such previous notice, the sheriff or other officer so offending,
shall, for every offense, forfeit and pay the sum of fifty dollars,
to be recovered, with costs of suit, in any court of record in
this territory, by the person whose lands may be advertised and
sold : Provided, lunoeoer, That no such offense, nor any irregularity on the part of the sheriff or other officer having the exe- 
ecution, shall be deemed to affect the validity of any sale made
under it, unless it shall be made to appear that the purchaser
had notice of such irregularity. 
SEC. 12. Whenever any lands or tenements shall be sold, by
virtue of any execution, it shall be the duty of the sheriff or
other officer, instead of exeouting a deed of the premises sold,
to give to the purchaser or purchasers of such lands or tene­
ments, a certificate in writing, describing the lands or tenements
purchased, and the sum paid therefore, or if purchased by the
plaintifff" in the execution, the amount of bis bid, and the time
when the purchaser will be entitled to a deed for such lands, or
tenements, unless the same shall be redeemed, as is provided in
this chapter ; and such sheriff or other officer shall, within ten
days from such sale, file in the office of the recorder of the
county, a duplicate of such certificate signed by him ; and such
certificate, or a certified copy thereof, shall be taken and deemed
evidence of the facts therein contained," 
SEC. 13. It shall be lawful for any defendant, his heirs, exec­
utors, administrators or grantees, whose lands or tenements
shall be sold by virtue of any execution, within six months
from such sale, to redeem such lands or tenements," by paying
to the purchaser thereof, his executors, administrators, or as­
signs, or the sheriff or other officer who sold the same, for the
benefit of such purchaser, the sum of money which may have
been paid on the purchase thereof, or the amount given or bid 
if purchased by the plaintifff" in the execution, together with
interest thereon at the rate of ten per cent. from the time of
inch sale ; and on such sum being paid as aforesaid, the said
sale and the certificate thereupon granted shall be null and void. 
SEC. 14. After the expiration of six mouths," and at any 
time before the expiration of nine months, from the sale of any
lands or tenements, under the provisions of the preceding sec­
tions hereof, it shall be lawful for any judgment creditor12 to
redeem the same in the manner following: such judgment
creditor shall sue out an exeeution upon his judgment, and
place the same in the hands of the proper officer to execute the 
lilme,u and thereupon the said officer shall indone upon the
back of said execution, a levy upon the land or tenements which
aaid judgment creditor may wi1h to redeem ; and ea.id judgment
ereditor shall pay to aid offieeru in whose hands he shall have 
placed his execution, as aforesaid, the amount of money for
which said premises shall have been sold, with ten per cent. 
~r annum interest thereon from the dAte ot such sale, for the
'ttse of lhe purchaser thereof his executors, administrators or
usigns, upon pay!lll:ent of which said officer shall file in the
recorder's office of the county in which said lands are situated, 
a certificate of the redemption thereof, by said judgment cred­ 
rtor, under such execution, and shall advertise and offer the
same for sale, under and by virtue of said execution, in the
same manner as lands are required to be advertised and ex­
posed to sale on execution in other cases.u 
SEc. 15. Any judgment creditor, having so redeemed such
Iands, shall be considered as having bid at such sale the amount
of said redemption money, so paid by him, and interest thereon
from the date ef such redemption to the day of sale; and if no
bid greater than saicl amount shall be offered, the lands shall be
struck off and sold to such judgment creditor or creditors, and
a deed thereof shall forthwith be executed by such officer to
such creditor or creditors, and no other redemption shall be
allowed; but if another and higher bid shall be made therefore, 
and the said lands sold for more than the amount of said re­
dem ption money and interest, as last aforesaid, the excess, over
and above the amount or the same, shall be applied as a credit
on the execution under which the redemption shall have been
made, and a certificate of purchase shall be executed to the 
new purchaser, in the manner hereinbefore prescribed, for a 
deed of said land so sold, within sixty days from the date of
such sale, unless the same shall be redeemed in the meantime, 
in the manner herein prescribed, by some other judgment cred­
itor ; and if such lands shall be redeemed from said second
purchaser, the same shall be done in the same manner, and
upon the same terms, and the officer shall proceed in the same
mode te effer the said lands for sale as hereinbefore required in
the case of the first redemption; and such lands may be suc­
cessively redeemed, :within every p_eriod. of sixty days, as long
as there shall be a Judgment creditor disposed to redeem the 
same, on the terms, and in the manner aforesaid ; and after the
lapse of any period of sixty days without redemption, it shall
be the duty of the officer whe last gold such lands en the exe­
cution under which the same shall have been last redeemed, or
his successor in effice, to execute a deed for the lands so sold,
to the last purchaser, in like manner as other deeds for lands
sold on execution are made. 
SEC. 16. Any judgment creditor or creditors may redeem
the whole, or any part or portion, of the lands or tenements
previously sold upon executioa : Provided; Such redemption
shall be made in the like distinct quantities or parcels in which
the same were sold," 
SEC. 17. No commission upon the amount of the redemption 
money paid, in any case, shall be allowed to the officer receiv­
ing the same, but the usual commission shall be allowed the
officer selling said premises, on the excess made over and above
the amount of said redemption money and interest. 'I'he dupli­
cate copy of the certificate of purchase required in the twelfth
section hereof, shall be filed in the office of the recorder of the
county in which the lands so sold under execution are situated. 
SEC. 18. Every certificate which shall be given by any officer
to any purchaser, under the provisions of this chapter, shall be
assignable by indoraement thereon, under the hand of such pur­
chaser or purchasers, his, her, or their heirs, executors, admin­
istrators, or assigns ; and every penon to w horn the same shall
be so assigned, shall be entitled to the same benefits therefrom,
in every respect, that the person therein named would have
been, if the same had not been assigned ; and in case the lands 
mentioned in such certificate, shall not be redeemed in pursu­
ance of law, iii hall be enti tied to a deed thereof. 
SEC. 19. The deed, to be executed by the officer to the pur­ 
chaser, under the provisions of this chapter, shall contain a 
statement of the judgment upon which the lands therein de­
scribed were sold, and of the date of the execution, and may be
in the following form: WHERE.AS, A. B. did, at the -- term of
the district court for the county of-- (as the case may be),
recover a judgment against C. D., for the sum of-- dollars
and -- cents, and costs of suit; upon which judgment an 
execution was issued, dated on the -- day of --, A. D. 
18-, directed to -- to execute ; and by virtue of aaid execu­
tion, the said -- levied upon the lands hereinafter described,
and the same were struck off and sold to--, he being the
highest and best bidder therefore, and the time and place of sale
thereof having been duly advertised aceording to law: Now there­ 
fore, Know al], by this deed, that I, --, of the said county of
--, in consideration of the premises, have granted, bargained
and sold, and do hereby convey, to the said--, hie heirs and
aaaigns, the following described tract or tracts of land, (describe
the lands), to have and hold the said described premises, with 
all the appurtenances thereunto belonging, to the said--, his
heirs and assigns, forever. Wiiness my hand and seal, this
-- day of--, A. D. one thousand eight hundred and --. 
SEC. 20. If the purchaser shall have assigned his certificate
of purchase, then there may be inserted after the word "law,''
in the foregoing form, in substance as follows : "and the said
--, having dul?; assigned his certificate of purchase to" (as
the case may be). 
7 
SEc. 21. Any deed so executed shall be evidence that the
provisions of the law in relation to sales of land upon execu­
tion were complied with, until the contrary shall be shown,
and such deed shall be considered as conveying to the grantee,
therein named, all the title, estate and interest of the defendant,
or defendants, in the execution therein named, in and to the
lands thereby conveyed, of whatsoever nature the same may
be, but which deed shall not be construed to contain any cov­
enant upon the part of the officer executing the &ame.18 
SEc. 22. If default be made in the payment of any sum of
money secured by mortgage on lands and tenements, duly exe- 
[L. 8.] 
outed and recorded, and if the payment be by instalments, and
the last shall have become due, it shall be lawful for the mort­
gagee, his executors or administrators, to sue out a writ of
scire facias from the clerk's office of the district court of the
county in which the said mortgaged premises may be situated,
or any part thereof, directed to the sheriff, or other proper
officer, of such county, requiring him to make known to the
mortgagor, or if he be dead, to his hei~s, executors, or admin­
iatrators, to show cause, if any they have, why judgment should
not be rendered for such sum of money as may be due by virtue
of said mortgage; and upon the appearance of the party named
as a defendant in said suit of scire facias, the court may proceed
to judgment, as in other eases ; but if the said scire fucias be
returned nihil, or that the defendant is not found, an alias seire
facias may be issued; and if it be returned as aforesaid, or if 
ihe defendant appear and plead, or make default, the court may
proceed to give judgment, with costs, for such sum as may be
due by said mortgagor, or appear to be due, by the pleadings,
or after the defense, if any be made, and also that said mort­
gaged premises be sold to satisfy such judgment, and may
award or direct a special writ of fieri f acias for that purpose, to
,he county or counties in w bich said mo rtgaged premises may
be situate, and on which the like proceedings may be had, as in
other cases of execution levied upon real estate: Provided how­ 
eoer, That the judgment aforesaid shall create no lien on any
other lands or tenements than the mortgaged premises, nor
shall any other real or personal property of the mortgagor, be
liable to satisfy the same; but nothing herein contained shall
be so construed as to affect any collateral security given by the
mortgagor for the payment of the same sum of money, or any
part thereof, secured by the mortgage dced.19 
SEU. 23. In all cases where lands shall be sold under and by
virtue of any decree of a court of equity, for the sale of mort­
gaged lands, it shall be lawful for the mortgagor of such lands,
his heirs, executors or administrators, to redeem the same in 
the manner prescribed in this chapter for the redemption of
lands sold by virtue of executions issued upon judgments at 
common-law; and judgment creditors may redeem lands sold
under any such decree in the same manner as is prescribed for
the redemption of lands in like manner sold upon executions
issued upon judgments at common-Jaw. 
SEc. 2-1. When a writ of attachment, or a writ of execution
is issued from the district court of one county, to any sheriff or
other officer of another county, and levied upon any real estate
in such county, it shall be the duty of the officer making such
levy, to make a certificate thereof, and file the same in the re­
corder's office of the county where such real estate is situated ;
and until the filing of such certificate, such levy shall not take
effect as to creditors or bona. fide purchasers without notice.20 
SEC. 25. When a writ of attachment is levied upon any real
estate, in any case, it shall be the duty of the officer making the
levy, to file a certificate of such fact with the recorder of the
county where such land is situate; nod from and after the filing
of the same, such levy shall take effect, as to creditors and bona 
fide purchasers without notice, and not before.21 
S1:c. 26. It shall be the duty of the recorder of the proper
county, to file and record the certificates mentioned in the fore­
going sections, in a book to be kept for that purpose, for which
he shall be entitled to the same fees as for recording other pa­
pers, to be paid by the plaintifff in such execution or attachment,
and be taxed, and collected by the sheri fl~ as other costs. 
SEc. 27. Such certificate may be in substance as follows: 
l 
of -- against -- dated -- day of -- 18-, I did on this
-- day of -- 18-, Jevy upon the following real estate, ( de­
scribe it). 
A. B., sheriff ( or coroner) of-- county. 
SEC. 28. In all cases of redemption of lands from sale, had
under any attachment, judgment, order or decree, or proceeding
thereunder, it shall be the duty of the purchaser, sheriff, master
in chancery, or other officer or person, from w horn said redemp­
tion takes place, to make out an instrument in writing, under
his hand and seal, evidencing said redemption, which shall be 
recorded in the recorder's office of the proper county, in man­
ner as other writings, affecting the title to real estate, are filed
and recorded; and which recording shall be paid for by the
party redeeming. 
SEC. 29. No goods or chattels shall be sold by virtue of
any execution unless previous notice of such sale shall have
been given, for at least ten days successively, in the same
manner as required in the sale of real estate upon execution. 
SEC. 30. Whenever a sheriff or other officer shall have levied
an execution, issued out of any court of record, upon the per­
sonal property of a defendant, or shall be about to make such
levy, and the defendant be desirous of retaining the same in his
possession, such sheriff shall take a bond from such defendant,
with security, that the property shall be forthcoming or deliv­
ered at such time and place as shall be named in tho condition,
and that the same shall not be disposed of nor injured; and a
bond so taken, shall not be considered void, as taken by color
of office.22 
SEC. 31. Where bonds shall be taken by a sheriff: for the
forthcoming and delivery of property, and the defendant or his 
security shall not return the property named in the said bond
conforrnably to the condition thereof, the officer having such
execution may proceed to execute the same in the same manner
as if no levy had been made ; and in case the defendant's prop­
erty, or a sufficiency thereof, cannot be found, the officer may
proceed to levy on so much of the property of the secnrity in
the delivery bond as will make the amount called for in such
bond, and the property which may be so taken may be sold, by
giving notice thereof, as prescri bed in section thirty of this
chapter, and no future delivery bond shall be allowed. 
SEC. 32. The necessary wearing apparel of every person shall
be exempt from execution, writ of attachment, and distress for 
rent. 
~ SEC. 83. The following property, when owned by any person
being the head of a family and residing with the same, shall be
exempt from levy and sale upon any execution or writ of attach­
ment, or distress for rent; and such articles of property shall
continue exempt while the family of such person are removing
from one place of residence to another within this territory. 
First, Family pictures, school-books, and library. Second, 
.A seat or pew in any house or place of public worship. Third, 
The sites of burial of the dead. Fourth, All wearing apparel
of the debtor and his family ; all beds, bedsteads and bedding,
kept and used for the debtor and his family; all stoves and ap­
pendages, kept for the use of the debtor and his farnily ; all
cooking utensils; and all the household furniture not iierein
enumerated, not exceeding one hundred dollars in value. 
Fifth, The provisions for the debtor and his family, necessary
for six months, either provided or growing, or both; and fuel
necessary for six months. Sixth, The tools and implements, or
stock in trade of any mechanic, miner, or other person, used
and kept for the purpose of carrying on his trade or business
not exceeding two hundred dollars in value. Seventh, The
library and implements of any professional man not exceeding
three hundred dollars. Eighth, Working animals to the value
of two hundred dollars. Ninth, One cow and calf, ten sheep,
and the necessary food for all the animals herein mentioned, for
six months, provided or growing, or both ; also one farm wagon,
cart or dray, one plough, one harrow, and other farming imple­
ments, including harness and tackle for team, not exceeding
fifty dollars in value: Provided, That nothing in this chapter
shall be so construed, as to exempt any property of any debtor
from sale for the payment of any taxes whatever, legally
assessed: And provided further, That no article of property
above-mentioned shall be exempt from attachment, or sale on
execution for the purchase money for said article of property: 
Ancl provided also, further, That the tools, implements, work­
ing animals, books and stock in trade, not exceeding three hun­
dred dollars in value, of any mechanic, miner or other person
not being the head of a family, used and kept for the purpose
of carrying on his trade and business, shall be exempt from 
levy and sale on any execution or writ of attachment, while
such person is a bona fide resident of this territory. 
SEc. 34. Whenever in any case the head of a family shall die,
desert, or cease to reside with the same, the said family shall be
entitled to, and receive all the benefit and privileges, which are
in this chapter conferred upon the head of a family residing
with the same. 
SEC. 35. If any officer or other person, by virtue of any exe­ 
cution or other process, or by any right of distress, shall t.ake 
or seize any of the articles of propertj- hereinbefore exempted
from levy and sale, such officer or person shall be liable to the
party injured, for three times the value of the property illegal­
ly taken or seized, to be recovered by action of trespass, with 
costs of suit. 
SEC. 36. Nothing in this chapter shall apply to judgments
rendered and executions issued, by justices of the peace, ex­
cepting such as relate to executions levied upon personal prop­
erty. 
SEC. 37. Whenever a judgment is obtained, in any court of
record in this territory, against any person or persons, who has
or shall, after the rendition of said judgment, die, it shall be
lawful for execution to issue against the lands and tenements of
said deceased person or persous, without first reviving the judg­
ment against their heirs or legal representatives: Provided
however, The plaintifff or plaintifffs in execution, or his or their
attorney, shall give to the executor or administrator, if there be 
any, of said deceased person or persons, at least three months'
notice, in writing, ef the existence of said judgment, before the 
issuing of execution: And provided further, That no execution
shall issue, until after the expiration of twelve months from
the death of such deceased person or persons.f 
SEc. 38. Whenever a judgment shall be rendered, by any
court of record, or any justice of the peace, in this territory,
and an execution, against the defendant or defendants in said
judgment, shall be returned by the proper officer, "no property
found," on the affidavit of the plaintifff, or other credible person,
being made before the clerk of said court, or justice of the 
peace, that said defendant or defendants have no property, with~ 
in the know ledge of said affiant, in his or their possession liable 
to execution, and that such affiant hath just reason to believe
that another person or persons is or are indebted to such de­
fendant or defendants, or bath or have any effects or estate ot 
such defendant or defendants in his or their bands, it shall be
lawful for said court, or justice of the peace, to cause the person
or persons, supposed to have anv of the effects or estate of the 
said defendant or defendants, to wbc summoned forthwith to ap- 
pear before said court or justice, as a garnishee or garnishees; 
and said court, or justice of the peace, shall examine and pro­
ceed against such garnishee or garnishees, in the same manner
as is required by law, against garnishees in original attach­
merits." 
SEC. 39. No proceedings against a garnishee or garnishees
shall be quashed, or set aside, or said garnishee or garnishees
discharged, on account of nny insufficiency of the original affi­
davit, or summons, if the plaintifff or plaintifffs, or other credible
person for him, shall cause n legal and sufficient affidavit to be
filed, or the summons to be amended, in such time and manner
as the court, or justice of the pen.ct-, shall respectively, in their
discretion, direct; and in that "vent, the cause shall proceed, as 
if such proceedings had originally been sufficient. 
SE9. 40. The collection of the judgments of courts of record,
shall not be delayed or hindered by the death of the plaintifff,
or person in whose name the judgment shall exist, but the ex­
ecutor or administrator, as the case may be, may cause the
letters testamentary or of administration to be recorded in the
court in which the judgment exists; after which, execution
may issue, and proceedings be had thereon in the name of the
executor or administrator, as such, in the same manner that
eould or might be done, or had, if the judgment exist or remain,
in the name, and in favor of the executors or administrators, in
his, her or theircapacity as such executor or administrator." 
SEC:. 41. The lien created by law on property, shall not
abate or cease by reason of the death of any plaintifff or plain­
tiffe, but the same shall survive in favor of the executor or ad­
ministrator of the testator or intestate, whose duty it shall be 
· to have the judgment enforced in the manner aforesaid. 
SEC. 42. When it shall be necessary, in order to secure the
collection of any judgment in favor of any executor or admin­
istrat()r, it shall be the duty of such executor or administrator 
to bid for, and become the purchaser of real estate, at sheriff's 
sale, which real estate so purchased, shall be assets in his hands,
and may be again sold by him upon the order of the court of
probate, and the monies arising from such sale paid over and .
accounted for as other monies in bis hands. 
SEC. 43. If any debtor shall be engaged in removing his or
her property from this territory, such property shall not be ex­
exem pt from levy and sale under execution or attachment:
Provided, 'I'hat nothing in this chapter contained, shall be held
to authorize the levying upon and scl]ing the necessary wearing
apparel or beds and bedding of any debtor, or of the family of
any debtor, under any execution or attachment. 
SEC. 44. No order of attachment on any garnishee, shall be,
made out or issued in any court of record in this territory, for
any sum less than twenty dollars. 
SEC. 45. All current gold and silver coin, bank-bills, and oth­
er evidence of debt used or circulated or intended to be used or
circulated as money, and issued by any corporation or state, or
by the United States, may be levied upon under any execution
or writ of attachment, as other personal property ia levied upen
or attached, and shall be returned by the officer making such
levy as so much money eollected without sale. 
SEC. 46. Rights and shares of stock in any incorporated com­
pany, owned or held by any defendant in execution, or by any
person in trust for, or to the use of any defendant in execution,
may be levied upon under any execution or writ of attachment
and may be sold under any execution, in the manner hereinafter
provided. 
SEc. 47. When any execution or writ of attachment shall be
issued against any person being the owner of any shares or
stock in any incorporated company, or for whom or to whose
use any shares, or stock in any incorporated company, are held
by any person other than such defendant, it shall be the duty ot 
the president, cashier, secretary, or chief-clerk of such incorpo­
rated company, upon the request of the officer having such ex­
ecution or writ of attachment, to furnish him a. certificate un­
der his band, stating the number of rights or shares which the
defendant holds, or which are held in trust for such defendant,
or to his use, in the stock of such incorporated company. 
SEC. 48. Any officer, upon obtaining information, in the man·
ner provided in the last section, or otherwise, that a defendant
in any execution or writ of attachment held by him, owns or
holds any rights or shares in the stock of any incorporated
company, or that such rights or shares are owned or held by
any other person in trust for, or to the use of such defendant,
may make a levy of such execution or writ of attachment on
such rights or shares, by leaving a true copy of such writ with
the president, secretary, cashier, or chief-clerk, of such incorpo- 
rated company; and, if there be no such officer, then with some
other officer of such incorporated company, with a certificate of
the officer making the levy, setting forth that he levies upon
and takes in execution or attachment, such rights or shares, to
satisfy such execution or attachment. 
SEc. 49. Rights or shares in the stock of any incorporated
company levied upon by virtue of any writ of attachment shall
be held subject to the judgment rendered in the actien in which
such writ is issued, and whenever any execution shall be levied
upon any such rights or shares, the same shall be sold in like
manner as personal property is, by existing law, provided to be
sold. 
SEC. 50. It shall be the duty of every officer who shall sell
any rights or shares of stock in any incorporated company, un­
der au execution, to execute to the purchaser thereof a certifi­
cate in writing, reciting the sale and payment of the considera­
tion, and conveying to the purchaser such rights and shares;
and such officer shall also leave, with the president, secretary,
cashier, or chief-clerk, or if there be none, with any other offi­
cer of such incorporated company, a true copy of such certifi­
cate; and thereupon it shall be the duty of the officer, clerk, or
other person having charge of the books of such incorporated
company to make such entries in the books of such company,
as may be necessary to vest the legal and equitable title to such
rights or shares of stock in the purchaser of the same. 
SK9. 61. Every purchaser of rights or shares of stock in any
incorporated company, at any sale thereof made by any officer,
upon receiving a certificate of the sale thereof, as provided in
the last section, shall be deemed and held to be the legal and
equitable owner of such rights or shares of stock, and he shall
be and become entitled to a1l dividends thereon, and to the
same rights and privileges ns a member of such incorporated
company, as the defendant in execution was theretofore entitled
to, notwithstanding such rights and shares of stock may not
have been transferred upon the books of such company. 
S~c. 52. Every interest in laud, legal and equitable, shall be
subject to levy and sale under execution, and the claim or pos­
sessory right of any defendant in execution, in or to any public
Iauds, may be levied upon and sold under execution, iu _the
same manner as if the same were held by such defendant in
fee-sirnple : Provided, That nothing in this chapter contained
shall be so construed as to give any plaintifff in execution the
right to levy on nny land filed on by any person, in the land­
office of the Colorado land-district, and occupied as a homestead
by the defendant in execution. 
SEc. 53. Any judgment or decree of the so-called miners',
people's, or other courts, which has been or shall be legalized 
and confirmed by act of the legislature, and which remains un­
eatisfied in whole or in part, may be revived by suit of scire 
facias, in the district court of the county where the same was
rendered, and the same proceedings had thereupon as in other
casee. 
SEC. 54. Whenever any transcript of any judgment or de­
cree, certified to by the officer before w horn the same was ren­
dered, shall be filed with any justice of the pc:1ce, where the
amount claimed shall not exceed one hundred dollars, suea
magistrate shall enter judgment thereon, for the amount which
shall appear due, subject to the like limitations and appeal, as 
in •ther casee. 
SEC. 55. All judgments and decisions rendered by any of the
so-called miners' courts, or miners' clubs, or claim clubs, or
people's courts, or Kansas courts, according to the rules and
regulations adopted by any neigh borhood or mining district
within which are now the limits of Colorado territory, when
both parties made an appearance, or had notice according to
such rules, and all the executions, writs, processes, sales or pro­
ceedings growing out or resulting from the same, are hereby
confirmed and legalized. 
SEC. 56. The foregoing section shall be deemed to apply to
all such judgments, decrees, writs, processes, and sales, had or
rendered at any time prior to the fifteenth day of August, A.
D. 1862 . 
• >\.n o.ct to provrnc for Homesteads In Colorado Territory. 
Be it enacted by the Council and House of Iiepresentativee of Col­ 
orado Terri'tory : 
[.jpprovecl Januarl/ 10, 1868. J 
SEC. 57. (I.) Every householder in Colorado territory, being
the head of a family, shall be entitled to a horuestead not ex­
ceeding in value the sum of two thousand dollars, exempt from
execution and attachment, arising from any debt, contract, or
civil obligation entered into or incurred after the first <lay of
February, A. D. one thousand eight hundred and sixty-eight. 
SEC. 58. (II.) To entitle any person to the benefits of this
act. he shall cause the word" Tlorucstead a to be entered of record
in the margin of his recorded tit le to the same. 
SEC. 59. (III.) Such homesteads shall only be exempt as pro·
vided in the first section of this act, while occupied as such by
the owner thereof, or his or her family. 
SEC. 60. (IV.) When any person dies seized of a homestead,
leaving a widow, or husband, or minor children, such widow, 
or husband, or minor children shall be entitled to the home- 
stead ; but in case there is neither widow, husband, nor minor
children, the homestead shall be liable for the debts of the
deceased. 
SEC. 61. (V.) The homestead mentioned in this act may con­
sist of a house and lot or lots, in any town or city, or of a farm
consisting of any number of acres, so that the value does not
exceed two thousand dollars. 
SEC. 62. (VI.) Nothing in this act shall be construed to pre­
vent the owner and occupier of any homestead from voluntarily
mortgaging the same: Provided, No such mortgage shall be
binding against the wife of any married man, who may be occu­
pying the premises with him, unless she shall freely and volun­
tarily, separate and apart from her husband, sign and acknowl­
edge the same, and the officer taking such acknowledgment
shall fully apprise her of her rights and the effect of signing
such mortgage. 
Sec. 63. (VII.) When any creditor shall be of the opinion
that any homestead provided for in this act, is of greater value 
than two thousand dollars, on filing an affidavit of that fact,
with the clerk of the district court, such creditor may proceed
against said homestead as in ordinary cases, and if the said
homestead shall sell for more than two thousand dollars and
costs, the excess shall be applied to the payment of the demand
of such creditor; but in all such cases the sum of two thousand
dollars, free of charge or expense, shall be paid to the owner
of the homestead; and in case the said homestead shall not sell
for more than two thousand dollars and costs, the person insti­
tuting the proceeding, shall pay all costs of such proceeding,
and the said proceeding cease and not affect or impair the rights
of the owner of the homestead. 
SEC. 64. (VIII.) That in case of the sale of said homestead,
any subsequent homestead acquired by the proceeds thereof
shall also be exempt from execution or attachment, nor shall
~my ju<lgment or other claim against the owner of such home­
stead be a lien against the same in the hands of a bona fide pur­
chaser for a valuable consideration. 
SECTION 1. All male inhabitants of the territory of Colorado,
of the age of twenty-one years, who are citizens of the United
States, of sound mind and discretion. and not subject to any
bodily infirmity amounting to disability, or to disability im­
posed for the commission of crime, and not being negroes or
mulattoes, sball be competent. persons to serve as grand and
petit jurors in all courts and judicial proceedings in this terri­
tory. No person shall be eligible as a juror, in nny court in
this territory, who is a known professional gambler, or who
keeps a house, room, saloon or other place in which gambling
is carried on. 
SEC. 2. Justices of the supreme court, probate judges, clerks
of courts, county clerks and commissioners, atterneys and coun­
sellors at law, sheriffs, coroners, justices of the peaee, postmas­
ters, persons who are sixty years of age, members of organized
fire-companies and militia companies, and all persons exempt
by any special law of this territory, shall not be required to
serve on any jury, if he or they shall ask to be excused or re­
lieved from such service; and no person shall be required to
serve as a juror except in the county where he may reside, or
in some county to which the county of his residence may beat­
tached for judicial purposes. 
S:e:o. 8. The board of county commissioners of each county
in this territory, except in counties attached for judicial purpo­
ses, shall, at least twenty-five days prior to each and every term 
of the district court required to be held in such county, select
twenty-three qualified persons to serve as grand jurors, and 
twenty-four qualified persons te serve as petit jurors, at the en­
suing term of the district court: Provided, That if the judge of
the district court cf such county shall, before the selecting of
such jurors, in writing, direet tho said board DQt to selees 
jurors as aforesaid, then no jurors shall be selected to attend
such term ; and the said judge may direct that grand, or petit
jurors only, shall be selected, and in such case the said board
shall proceed according to such direction. 
SEC. 4. If the judge of the district court of any county shall 
he of the opinion that the business to be transacted at any term
of the district court in such county will require a petit jury to
remain in attendance at such term for more than two weeks, it
shall be the duty of such judge to direct the board of county
commissioners, in writing, to select twenty-four persons to serve
as petit jurors, in addition to the number mentioned in the third
section of this chapter, and to direct upon what day of such
term, or of the month and year, the jurors last mentioned will
be required to appear and enter upon the service imposed upon
them by law; and the said board shall proceed to select twenty­
four qualified persons to serve according to such direction. 
SEC. 5. Whenever, and as soon as, jurors shall be selected, as '
provided in sections three and four of this chapter, the clerk of
the board of county commissioners shall certify to the clerk of 
the district court of such county, the names of the persons se­
lected as grand jurors, and the names of the persons selected u
petit jurors; and if persons shall be selected as provided in sec­
tion four, the time when such persons will be required to ap­ 
pear at the term of court, shall also be given in such certificate, 
SEC. 6. Whenever the clerk of the district court of any
county shall receive the names of the persona selected, as pro­
Yided in section three, he shall, unless otherwise directed by
the judge of such court, issue a venire, under the seal of the
court, directed to the sheriff of the proper county, commanding
him to summon the persons so selected, to appear in person be­ 
fore such court, on the first day of the next term of such court,
at ten o'clock iu the forenoon of that day. If the judge of such
district court shall direct that grand or petit jurors shall be
summoned to appear on any da.y of the term, subsequent to the
first, the venire issued as aforesaid shall be made returnable ac­
cording to such direction. If jurors shall be selected as pro­
vided in section four of this chapter, such jurors shall be sum·
moned to appear on the day designated by the judge of such
oeurt, aa provided in section four. 
SEC. 7. Whcnev8r two or more counties are attached for ju­
dicial purpose~, it shall be the <luty of the judge of the district 
oc,u.rt of the counties 80 attached, at least forty-five days prior
to each and every term of the district court by law required to 
9e held in either of such _counties, to apportion the grand and
petit jurors, required by law to be summoned to attend at such 
term, among the several counties so attached, respectively,
having reference to the population of the several counties so 
attached, respectively, and to transmit to the county clerks of
the several 'counties, respectively, a statement under his hand 
of the number of grand and petit jurors which will be required 
to be summoned in each of the several counties, according to 
such apportionment: Provided, That if the judge of any such
court shall be satisfied that a grand or petit jury will not be re.
quired to transact the business pending in such court, at such
term thereof, he may omit such apportionment, or may require
that grand jurors only, or petit jurors only, shall be selected
and summoned. 
SEC. 8. It shall be the duty of the county clerk, upon re­
ceiving the statement or apportionment, mentioned in section
seven, to notify the county commissioners thereof, and the
county commissioners shall, at least twenty-five days prior to 
the term of court mentioned in such statement or apportion·
ment, proceed to select the number of grand and petit jurors
required to be summoned from such county, and the county
clerk shall certify the names of the persons so selected, to the
clerk of the district court, and uemres shall be issued, com·
mantling the sheriffs of the proper counties to summon such
jurors, as in other cases; and when so summoned they shall at­
tend at such term, notwithstanding the same may not be held
in the county from whence they arc summoned. 
SEc. 9. A uenire may be served by reading the same to the
juror, personally, or by leaving a copy thereof at his usual
place of abode, with some person above the age of twelve
years; and the same shall be served at least five days before
the day on which jurorsare required to appear. 
SEC. 10. If the county ccmmissioners of any county shall
fail to select jurors to attend at any term of court, or if any of­
ficer charged with any duty respecting the selecting or sum­
moning of jurors, shall fail to perform the same, and thereby it
shall happen that jurors shall not be summoned as aforesaid, or
if when selected and summoned as aforesaid, any juror or jurors
shall not appear, or if by reason of challenges or any other
cause there shall not be a sufficient number of qualified per·
sons to make up the panel, the court may order a jury to be
summoned, or the panel to be filled by summoning talesmen,
and for that purpose the court may issue special uenires, or re­
quire the sheriff or sheriffs of the county or counties over which
she court has jurisdiction, to summou qualified persons from 
the body of such county or counties, to constitute a jury or
serve as tales men on any jury, as the case may be! and persons
so summoned shall serve as jurors until discharged by the
court. If jurors summoned to attend at any term of court,
shall for any cause be discharged by the court, talesmen may be
summoned to supply their places. 
SEC. 11. Before the grand jury at any term of court shall be
sworn or affirmed, tho court shall appoint a forehian of such
jury, and such foreman shall have power to administer an oath
or affirmation to any and all witnesses who may be required to
testify before such jury; he shall also indorse upon every bill
that may be presented to the grand jury the finding of such
jury, as that the same is "A true bill," or "Not a true bill," as
the case may be, and sign his name thereto, before the same
shall be returned into court. 
SEC. 12. Defore the grand jury shall enter upon their duties,
an oath or affirmation shall be administered to the foreman, as
follows, to wit: " You, as foreman of this inquest, do solemnly
swear (or affirm) that you will diligently inquire into, and true
presentment make, of all such matters and things as shall be
given you in charge, or shall otherwise come to your knowl­
edge touching the present service : you will present no person
through malice, hatred or ill-will; and that you will leave no
one uupreseuted through fear, favor or affection, or for any fee
or reward, or the hope or promise thereof; that you will keep
secret your own council, and that of your fellows, touching the
present service; and that in all your presentments you will pre­
sent the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, ac­
cording to the best of your skill and understanding, so help
you God." And an oath or affirmation shall be administered
to the other grand jurors, as follows, to wit: "You, and each
of yo_u, <lo solemrr[y swear (or affirm) that you will well and
truly keep and observe the oath that A. B., your foreman, has
just taken before you, so hcl p you God." 
S1<:u. 13. A grand jury shall consist of not less than sixteen
persons, nor more than twenty-three persons, and twelve grand
jurors shall assent to the finding of every true bill. Whenever
any member of a grand jurj- shall give information touching
any matter pending before such jury, ho shall take an oath or
affirmation, in the same manner as other witnesses. 
SEC. 14:. If any person who shall be lawfully summoned to
appear before any district court, as a grand or petit juror, shall
fail, neglect, or refuse to appear, as required by such summons,
without reasouable excuse, he shall be deemed guilty of con­
tempt, and shall be fined as the court may direct. 
SEc. 15. Whenever it shall be necessary to empanel a jury,
for the trial of any civil or criminal cause pending in any dis- 
trict court, the clerk of such court shall, by chance, draw from
a box to be kept for that purpose, the names of a sufficient num­
ber of petit jurors, to constitute such jury; and if the panel or
petitjurors in attendance upon the court, shall be exhausted be­ 
fore such jury shall be filled, talesmen may be summoned for
the purpose of making up such jury. 
SEC. 16. A jury-fee of five dollars shall be taxed as part of
the costs of the suit in each cause tried by jury. The clerk 
. shall pay such fee when collected, into the county treasury. 
SEC. 17. The clerk shall, without fee, furnish to each juror
who shall attend at any term of court, a certificate showing the
number of days that such juror shall have attended at such
term; and upon presentation thereof to the county commis­
sioners, they shall issue to such juror their warrant upon the
county treasury for the amount of the per diem and mileage of 
suoh juror. 
SEC. 18. If, upon the trial of any issue of fact in any civil
action, or any issue out of chancery, or of any indictment or
information, either party shall desire to introduce evidence of
the incompetency, disqualification or prejudice of any juror se­
lected or called for the trial of such issue, und who by the ex­
amination of such juror, shall appear to be competent, q uali­
fled and unprejudiced, such evidence shall be heard and the
competency of such juror shall be determined by the court,
without the intervention of triers. 
SEC. 19. In all civil cases, if any expenses shall be incurred
in furnishing meals or provisions to jurors empaneled to try
such causes, such expenses shall be taxed as costs in the suit,
against the unsuccessful party, and when collected the same shall
be paid into the county treasury, but in the first instance the
same ahall be paid by the county. 
SECTION 1. The following actions sball be commenced within
six years, next after the cause of action shall accrue, and not
afterwards: First, All actions of debt founded upon any con­
tract or liability in action. Second, All actions upon judgments
rendered in any court, not being a court of record. Third, All 
actions for arrears of rent. Fourth, All actions of a&sumpsit, or
on the case, founded on any contract or liability, express or 
implied. Fifth, All actions for waste, and for trespass on land. 
Sixth, All actions of replevin, and all other actions fen taking,
detaining, or injuring goods or chattels. Seventh, All other
actions on the case, except actions for slanderous words, and for
libels. 
SEC. 2. All actions for assault and battery, and for false im­
prisonment, and all actions for slanderous words, and for libels,
shall be commenced within one year, next after the cause of
action shall accrue, and not afterwards. 
Sso, 3. All actions against sheriffs, ·01" other officers, for the
escape of persons imprisoned on civil process, shall be com­
menced within six months from the time of such escape, aad 
not afterwards.
SEc. 4. All actions against sheriffs and coroners, upon any 
liability incurred by them, by the doing of any aet in their
official capacity, or by the omission of any offieial duty, except
for escapes, shall be brought within one year after the cause of
action shall have accrued, and not after that period. 
Sze. 5. In all actions of debt or assumpsit, brought to recover
the balance due upon a mutual and open account current, the
cause of action shall be deemed to have accrued at the time of
the last item proved in such account. 
SEC. 6 . .A.11 personal actions, on any account not limited by
the foregoing sections, or by any other law in this territory,
shall be brought within three years after the accruing of the
cause of action, and not afterwards. 
SEC. 7. All the provisions of this chapter shall apply to the
case of any debt or contract, alleged, by way of set-oft; on the 
part of a defendant; and the time of limitation of such debt,
shall be computed, in like manner as if an action had been
commenced therefore, at the time when the plaintifff's action
accrue<l. · 
SEc. 8. All actions and suits, for any penalty or forfeiture of
any penal statute, brought by this territory, or any person to
whom the penalty or forfeiture is given, in whole or in part,
shall be commenced within one year next after the offense is 
committed, and not after. that time. 
SEC. 9. The preceding section shall not apply to a11y suit
which is or shall be limited by any statute to be brought within 
a shorter time than is prescribed therein, but such suit shall be
brought within the time that may be limited by such statute. 
Sso. 10. Whenever there is a concurrent jurisdiction ia the
courts of common-law and in courts of equity, of any cause of
action, the provisions of this chapter limiting the time for the
commencement of a suit for such cause of action in a court of
common-law, shall apply to all suits hereafter to be brought for
the same cause in the court of chancery. 
SKc. 11. The last section shall not extend to suits over the
subject-matter of which, a court of equity has peculiar and
exclusive jurisdiction, and which subject-matter is not cogniza­
ble in the courts of common-law. 
SEC. 12. Bills for relief, on the ground of fraud, shall be filed
within three years after the discovery by the aggrieved party,
of the facts constituting such fraud, and not afterwards. 
SEC. 18. Bille for relief, in case of the existence of a trust
not cognizable by the courts of common-law, and in all other
eases not herein provided for, shall be filed within five years
after the cause thereof shall accrue, and not after. 
SEC. 14. If the person entitled to file any bill specified in the
two last sections, be, at the time of discovering the facts consti­
tuting such fraud, or at the time the cause for filing such bill
shall accrue, under any of the disabilities enumerated in this
chapter, the time during which such disabilites shall continue
shall be excepted from the limitations contained in the two last
sections, in the same manner and with like effect, as such time
is herein excepted from the limitations prescribed for com­
mencing actions at law; and in case of the death of the person
so entitled, during such disability, or before the expiration of
the time herein limited for filing such bills, the same may be
:filed by the heirs or representatives of such person, as the case
may require, within the same time as is allowed in this chapter
for commencing actions at law in the like cases. 
SEC. 15. If any person entitled to bring any of the actions
before-mentioned in this chapter, shall, at the time when the
cause of action accrues, be within the ago of twenty-one years,
er a. married woman, insane, imprisoned, or absent from the
United States, such person may bring the said actions, within
the time in this chapter respectively limited, after the disability
shall be removed. 
SEC. 16. It shall be lawful for any person, against whom any 
action shall be commenced in any court of this territory, where
the cause of action accrued without the territory, upon a con­
tract or agreement, express or implied, more than two years
before the commencement of the action, or upon any sealed in­
strument in writing, or judgment or decree of any court, mere
than three years before the commencement of the action, to 
plead the same, and give the Mme in bar or the plaintifff's rig hi 
of action.
SEc. 17. If any person entitled to bring any of the actions 
before-mentioned heroin, shall die before the expiration of the
time herein limited therefore, and if the cause of action does by
law survive, the aetion may be commenced by the executor or
administrator of the deceased person, as the case may be, at any
time within one year after the grant of letters testamenjary or 
of administration, and not afterwards, if barred by the provi­
sions of this chapter. 
Sze. 18. If in any action duly commenced, within the time
herein limited, and allowed therefore, the process shall fail of a 
sufficient service, or return, by any unavoidable accident, or by
any default· or neglect of the officer to whom it was committed;
or if the process shall be abated, or the actions otherwise
avoided or defeated by the death of any party thereto, or for
any matter of form: or if after a Terdict for the plaintifff; the
judgment shall be arrested; or if the judgment for the plaintifff'
shall be reversed on a writ of error, the plaintifff may commenee 
a new action for the same cause, at any time within one year 
after the abatement or other determination of the original suit,
or after the reversal of the judgment therein; and if the cause
of action does by law survive, his executor or administrator
may, in case of bis death, commence such new action within
the said one year. 
SEC. 19. If there are two or more joint contractors, or joint
executors or administrators of any contractor, no such joint
contractor, executor or administrator shall lose tho benefit of
the provision! of this chapter, so as to be chargeable, by reason
only, of an acknowledgment or promise made by any other or
others of them. 
SEO. 20. In actions commenced against two or more joint
contractors, or joint executors or administrators of any con­
tractor, if it shall appear on the trial or otherwise, that the
plaintifff is barred by the provisions of this chapter, as to one
or more of the defendants, but is entitled to recover against
any others or other of them, by virtue or a new acknowledg­
ment or promise, or otherwise, judgment shall be given for the
plaintifff as to any of the defendants againlit whom he is entitled
to recover, and for tho other defendant or defendants against
the plaintifff: 
SEC. 21. If in any action on contract, the defendant shall
plead in abatement, that any other person ought to have been
joindy sued, and issue be joined on that plea, and if it shall
appear on the trial: that the action was by reason of the provi­
sions of this chapter barred against the person so named in the
plea, the said issue shall be found for the plaintifff. 
SBC. 22. Nothing in the three preceding sections shall alter,
take away, or Iessen the effect of a payment of any principal or
interest made by any person ; but no indorsement or memoran­
dum or any such payment, written or made upon any promis­
sory note, bill of exchange, or other writing, by or on behalf
of the party to whom such payment shall be made, or purport 
to be made, shall be deemed sufficient proof ot the payment, so
as to take the case out of the operation of the provisions of
this chapter. 
SEC. 23. If there are two or more joint contractors, or joint
executors or administrators of any contractor, no one of them
shall lose the benefit of the provisions of this chapter, RO as to
be chargeable, by reason only of any payment made by any
other or others of them. 
SECTION 1. The respective district courts in this territory
shall have power to issue writs of mandamus. Appeals may be
taken from the decision of the said courts, upon such terms as
,he said district courts shall prescribe; or writs of error may
be prosecuted, whenever the supreme court, or any of the judges
thereof, in vacation, upon being presented with a copy of the
record, shall certify that there ia reasonable cause for the bring­
ing of such writs; and the said supreme court, or judge, in
ncation, may impose such terms and conditions upon the party
wishing to prosecute such writ of error, as the said court or
judge may deem reasonable. The allowance of a writ of error
shall operate, aft.er notice thereof, as a stay of proceedings in the
district court, until the termination of such writ of error. 
S.sc. 2. When HY writ of mandamw shall issue out of an1
-eourt of this territory, directed and delivered to any person or 
persons, who, by the laws of this territory, are required to
make return of such writ, such person or persons shall make
his or their return to the first writ of mandamus. 
SBC. 3. When any writ of mandamm shall issue out of any
court of this territory, and return shall be made thereunto, 1l 
1hall be lawful for the person or persons suing or prosecuting
such writ, to jlead to, or traverse, all or any of the material 
facts containe in such return, to which the person or persons
making such returns shall reply, take issue, or demur, and sueh
further proceedings shall be had therein, and in such manner,
for the determination thereof, as might have been had, if the
person or persons suing out such writ had brought his or their
action on the case for a false return. If any issue shall be
joined upon such proceedings, the person or persons suing such
writ, shal] and may try the same, in such place as an issue
joined on such action on the case should or might have been
tried. In case a verdict shall be found for the person or per­
sons suing such writ, or judgment given for him or them upon
a demurrer, or by ni7iil dicit, or for want of replication or other
pleading, he or they shall recover his or their damages and
costs, in such manner as he or they might have done in an
action on the case, as aforesaid ; such damages and costs shall
and may be levied by execution as in other cases, and a per­
emptery writ of mandamus shall be granted, without delay, for
him or them for whom judgment shall be given, as might have
been if such return had been adjudged insufficient. In case
judgment shall be given for the person or persons making such
return to such writ, he or they shall recover his or their costs
of suit, to be levied in manner aforesaid. 
SBC. 4. If any damages shall be recovered by virtue of the
provisions of this chapter, against any person or persons mak­
ing such returns to sueh writ, as aforesaid, he or they shall not
be liable to be sued, in any other action of suit, for the making
of such return, any law, usage, or custom to the contrary not­
withstanding. 
SEO. 5. Ii shall and may be lawful to and for the court issuing
any writ of mandamw, to allow such person or persons respeet­
ively, to whom such writ shall he directed, or the person or
persons who shall sue or prosecute the same, such convenient
time, respectively, to make return, plead, reply, rejoin or demur,
as to the court shall seem just aud reasonable, anything herein
contained to the contrary notwithstanding. 
SECTION 1. Whenever any person shall be required to take
an oath before he enters upon tho discharge of any office, place
or business, or on any other lawful occasion, it shall be lawful
for any person employed to administer the oath, to administer
it in the following form to wit : The person swearing shall,
with his or her hand uplifted, swear "By the Ever-Living God." 
SEC. 2. Whenever any person required to take or subscribe
an oath, as aforesaid, and, in all cases where an oath is, upon
any lawful occasion, to be administered, and such person shall
have conscientious scruples against taking an oath, he or she
shall be permitted, instead of taking an oath, to make his or
her solemn affirmation or declaration, in the following form, to
wit: "You do solemnly, sincerely, and truly declare and affirm;"
which solemn affirmation or declaration shall be equally nlid
as if such person had taken an oath, in the usual form; and ev­
ery person guilty of falsely and corruptly declaring, as afore­
said, shall incur and suffer the like pains and penalties as are, or
shall be, inflicted on persons guilty of willful and corrupt perjury. 
SEC. 3. All courts in this territory, and each judge, justice,
and clerk thereof, and all justices of the peace, and notaries­
public, shall respectively have power to administer oaths ani
affirmations to witnessea, and others, concerning anything de­
pending or proceeding commenced, or to be commenced, before
them respectively; and the said courts, judges, justices, notaries·
public, and clerks, within their respective districts or counties,
shall respectively have power to administer all oaths of office,
and other oaths required to be taken by any person upon any
lawful occasion, and to take affidavits and depositions, concern­
ing any matter or thing, process or proceeding, pending or to
be commenced, in any court or before any justice of the peace,
or on any occasion, wherein such affidavit or deposition are au­
thorized or required, by law, to be taken. 
SEC. 4. The chairman or any member of any committee, ap­
pointed by either branch of the legislative assembly of this
territory, or any member of any joint committee, appointed by 
the two houses or the legislative assembly, shall be authorized 
to administer oaths and affirmations to witnesses, touching any 
matter or thing which may be under the consideration or inves­
tigation of the committee. 
SRc. 5. All oaths and affirmations, affidavits and depositions,
administered or taken as provided in this chapter, shall subject
any person who shall so swear or affirm willfully or falsely, in
matter material to any issue or point in question, to the pains
and penalties inflicted by law, for the time being, on persons
guilty of willful and corrupt perjury. 
SEC. 6. All oaths and affirmations required or authorized to
be taken by any statute of this territory, may, when the person
required to make the same, resides out of, or is absent from
this territory, be made before, and administered by any 11otary­
public, or clerk of any court of record, of the state wherein
such person may be; such notary, or clerk, certifying the same
under his notarial seal, or the seal of such court. 
SECTION 1. When any lands, tenements or hereditaments
shall be held in joint tenancy, tenancy in common or coparce­
nary, whether such right or tide be derived by purchase, devise
or descent, or whether any, all, or a part of such claimants, be
of full age, or minors, it shall be lawful for one or more of the
persons interested,' by themselves, if of full age, or by their
guardians, if minors, to present to the district court, of the
county where such lands or tenements lie, or where the lands
or tenements lie in different counties, in the district court of
the county in which the major part of such lands lie; but if
the major part of such lands do not lie in any one county, then
to the district court of any county in which any of such lands.
lie; their petition praying for a division and partition of such
premises, according to the respective rights of the parties inter­
ested therein, and for a sale thereof, if it shall appear that par­
tition cannot be made without prejudice to the owners. 
SEc. 2. The petition shall particularly describe the premises
sought to be divided, or sold, and shall set forth and make ex­
hibit of the rights and titles of all parties interested therein,2 
so far as the same are known to the petitioners, including ten­
ants for years, for life, by the courtesy, or in dower, and of per­
sons entitled to the reversion, remainder or inheritance, and of 
every jerson, who, upon any contingency, may be or become
entitle to any beneficial interest in the premises, so far as the 
same are known to the petitioners ; and such petition shall •
verified by affidavit.3 
SEC. 3. Every person having such interest as is specified ia 
this chapter, whether in possession or otherwise, and every per· 
son entitled to dower in such premises, if the same hu not be• 
admeasured, shall be made a party to such petition.' 
SEC. 4. In cases where one or more of such parties shall be 
unknown, or the share or quantity or interest or any of the­ 
parties is unknown to the petitioner, or where such share or m­ 
terest shall be uncertain, or contingent, or the ownership or ihe 
inheritance shall depend upon an executory devise, or the re­ 
mainder shall be contingent, so that sueh parties cannot ha· 
named, the same shall be so stated in the petition. 
SEC. 5. All persons interested in the premises of which pu-­ 
tition is sought to be made according to the provisions here~
whose names are unknown, may be made parties to such pen­
tion, by the name and description of unknown owners or pro­
prietors of the premises, or as the unknowu heirs of any person who may have been interested in the same. · 
S1:c. 6. All persons having such interest, as is specified m, 
this chapter, in any premises of which partition is sought to be-­ 
made, or the guardians of such as are under age, who shall n<*. 
have joined in the petition, (and if any person so interested 'h. 
under age, and without guardian, the court shall appoint guar­
dian ad litem. for such minor,) shall have notice ot such applica­
tion by summons duly served, which summons shall issue
against such persons by the name and description given in the
petition ; and when the names of persons having any such in­ 
terest in such premises are unknown, and when parties whose­
names are known, do not reside in this territory, or cannot be­ 
found, they shall have further notice by advertisement, as pro­
vided by law; and after such advertisement, the court shall
proceed to act in the premises, as though the parties had been
duly served with summons, or had been notified by their prop­
er names. 
SEC. 7. During the pendency of any such suit, or proceedings,
any person claiming to be interested in the premises to be aa;.. 
signed or parted, may appear and answer the petition, and assert
his or her rights by way of interpleader; and the courts 8hall 
decide upon the rights of persons appearing as aforesaid, •
though they had been made parties in the first inatanee.' 
SEC. 8. The court shall ascertain from the evidence in case of
default, or from the confession by plea. of the parties, if they
appear, or from the verdict by which any issue of fact shall
'be determined, and shall declare, the rights, titles, and interests
of all the parties to such proceedings, petitioners as well as de­
fendants, and give such judgment as may be required by the
rights of the parties," 
SEC. 9. The court, when it shall order a partition of any
premises to be made under the provisions hereof, shall appoint
three commissioners, not connected with any of the parties, 
either by consanguinity or affinity, and entirely disinterested,
·each of whom shall take an oath before the court, or some jus­ 
tice of the peace, fairly and impartially to make partition of
said lands, in accordance with the judgment of the court as to
ihe rights and interests of the parties, if the same can be done con­
sistently with the interests of the estate ;7 and the said commis­
sioners shall go upon the premises,8 and make partition of said
lands, tenements and hereditaments, assigning to each party hi1 
or her share by metes and bounds; and make report, which
shall be under their hands and seals," to the court during the
same or next succeeding term, at which they were appointed;
and the court may, at the term when such report shall be made,
make all such orders upon such reports, as may be necessary to 
. a final disposition of the case," 
SEC. 10. The commissioners to be appointed under this chap­
.ter, shall be allowed, as a compensation for their services, two
dollars and fifty cents per day each, to be taxed as other costs. 
SEC. 11. When any lands, houses or lots are so circumstanced
that a division thereof cannot be made without manifest preju­
dice to the proprietors of the same, and the commissioners a.p:
pointed to divide the same, shall so report to the ceurt," the. 
court shall thereupon give an order to said commissioners, or 
other person or persons, to sell such lands, houses or lots, or
houses and lots, at public vendue, upon such terms, and by giv­
ing notice of sale as the court shall direct ;12 and who shall make
and execute good and sufficient conveyance or conveyances to
the purchaser or purchasers thereof, which shall operate as an
effectual bar, both in law and equity, against such owners or
proprietors, and all persons claiming under them; and the com·
missioners or perzons making such sale, shall report their pro­
ceedings to the court.P and shall pay over the monies arising
therefrom to the parties entitled to receive the same, under the
direction of the court; the court to make such order in rela­
tion to costs as shall seem right. 
SEC. 12. When a sale of any lands or premises shall be made
in accordance with the preceding section, and no person shall
appear to claim such portions of the money as may belong to
any non-resident, or person whose name is unknown, the court
shall thereupon require the money belonging to the persons not
elaiming as aforesaid, to be deposited in the treasury of the ter­
ritory, subject to the further order of the court; and all money
required to be deposited as aforesaid, shall be received by the
territorial treasurer, and paid out upon the order of the court. 
Sze, 13. When money shall be deposited in the territorial
treasury under the provisions of this chapter, the person or
persons entitled to the same, may at any time apply to the court
making the order of sale, and obtain an order for the same, up­
on making satisfactory proof to the court of his or her or their
right thereto. 
SEC. 14. No plea in abatement shall be received in any suit
for partition, nor shall such suit abate by the death of any ten­ 
an\. 
SEC. 15. The courts of chancery of this territory shall ha-ve
power, upon bills for the partition of lands, to proceed accord­
ing to the usual praetice of courts of chancery, or according to, 
the provisions of the preceding sections ; they shall also have
power upon bill or petition for the partition of lands, to inves- 
tigate and determine all questions of conflicting or controverted
&itles, and to remove clouds upon the title, to any of the prem­ 
ise• whereof partition is sought; to invest titles by their decrees,
without the form of conveyances by infants and unknown heirs
-or persons; to order a sale of the premises where, for any rea­ 
aon, the same cannot conveniently be partitioned, and by its de­ 
eree to invest the purchaser with title; and where partition is
made of premises which are subject to any eucum brance to ap­
portion such encumbrance among the persons to whom parti­
tion is made. 
SECTION 1. All process, writs, and other proceedings shall
run in the name of " The people of the territory of Colorado,"
shall be issued under the seal of the eourt, tested in the name
of the clerk of such court, dated on the day it shall be issued
and signed with his name ;1 and shall be directed to the sheriff;
(or if he be interested in the suit, to the coroner,) of the proper
county. The first proeess in all actions to be hereafter com·
menced in any of the district courts of this territory, shall be a
summons,2 which summons shall specify the nature of the ae­
tion, and the amount claimed, and shall be made returnable on 
the first day of the next term of the district court in which the
action may be commenced.3 
811:c. 2. It shall not be lawful for any plaintifff to sue a defend­
ant out of the county where the latter resides, or may be found,
except in cases where the debt, contract, or cause of action, ac­
erued in the county of the plaintifff, or where the contract may
have been made specifically payable, when it shall be lawful to
sue in such county, and process may issue against the defendant
to the sheriff of the county where sueh defendant resides; and
in every species of personal action, whether in law or in equity,
when there is more than one defendant, the plaintifff, commenc­
ing his action where either of such defendants reside, may have
a writ or writs issued, directed to any county or counties where
the other defendants, or either of them, may be found : Pro· 
11idtd, That if a verdict shall not be found, or judgment ren­
dered against the defendant or defendants residing in the county
where the action is commence<l,judgment shall not be rendered
against those defendants who do not reside in such county, un­
less they enter an appearance in the cause.' 
S:e:c. 8. It shall be the duty of the sheriff, or the coroner, to 
serve all process of summons, when it shall be practicable, ten
days before the return-day thereof, and to make return of such
process to the clerk who issued the same, hy or on the re­
turn-day, with an indorsement of his services f the time of 
serving it, and the amount of his fees : Provided, That w hen 
such process shall have been directed to a foreign county, the
officer executing the same may make return thereof by mail, or
express, and the clerk may charge the postage or express fees,
and tax the amount in his fee-bill. 
SEC. 4. In all suits against any incorporated company, sum­
mons shall be served on the president thereof, if he resides in
the county, but if he do not reside in the county, or be absent
from the county, or cannot be found, then the summons shall be 
served by leaving a copy thereof with any clerk, secretary,
cashier, or agent of said company, within such time, and under
such regulations as are herein provided for the service of such
process in suits against natural persons : Provided, That if there 
shall be no such president, clerk, secretary, cashier or agent of 
said company to be found in said county, the summons afore­
said, shall be served on some stockholder of said company, and
such service shall, in such cases, be deemed as effectual and val­ 
id, aa if made on any of the officers of said company," 
SEC. 5. If it shall not be in the power of such sheriff or cor­
oner to serve a summons ten days before the return-day there­ 
of, he may execute the same at any time before or on the return­
day ; hut in such cases, the defendant or defendants shall be en­
titled to n continuance, and shall not be compelled to plead be­
fore the next succeeding term. 
SEc. 6. Whenever it shall appe~r, by the return of the sher­
iff or coroner, that the defendant or defendants are not found,
the clerk shall, at the request of the plaintifff issue another 
summons, and so on until service be had, and the defendant or
defendants be summoned or brought iato court; and if such
summons be served on any one or more, but not all, of the de­
fendants, tbs plaintifff or plaintifffs shall be at liberty to proceed 
to trial and judgment in the same manner as if all the defend­
ants were in court ; and any judgment so obtained shall be val·
id against the defendant or defendants on whom the process had
been served, and the plaintifff or plaintifffs may, at any time af­
terwards," have a summons in the nature of a scire facias, against
the defendant or defendants not served with the process, as
aforesaid, to cause him, her or them to appear in the said court
and show cause why he, she, or they should not be made a party
to such judgment; and the court shall thereupon proceed to
1,.ear and determine the matter in the same manner as if such
defendant or defendants had been originally summoned or
"brought inte court; and such defendant or defendants shall also
be allowed the benefit of any payment which may have been
made on the judgment before recovered; and the judgment of
the court against the defendants in such case, shall be that the
plaintifff or plaintifffs recover against such defendant or defend­
ants, together with the defendant or defendants in the former
judgment, the amount of his debt or damages, as the case may
be. 
SEC. 7. If any sheriff or coroner, to whom any summons
shall be delivered, shall neglect or refuse to make return of the
same, before, or on the return-day of such process, the plaintifff 
· may enter a rule, requiring said sheriff or coroner to make
return of such process on a day to be fixed by the court, or to show
cause, on that day, why he should not be attached for a con­
tempt of the court; and the plaintifff shall thereupon cause a
written notice of such rule to be served on such sheriff or cor­
oner, and if good and sufficient cause be not shown to excuse
such officer, the court shall adjudge him guilty of contempt,
and shall proceed to punish such officer, as in other cases of
contempt. 
SEC. 8. If the plaintifff shall not file his declaration, together
with a copy of the instrument of writing or account on which
the action is brought, in case the same be brought on a written
instrument or account, ten <lays before the first day of the term
of court at which the summons is made returnable, the court,
on motion of the defendant, shall continue the cause, at the
cost of the plaintifffs,8 unless it shall appear that the suit was 
commenced within ten days of the sitting of the court, in which
case, the cause shall be continued without costs, unless the
parties shall agree to have a trial; and if no declaration be
filed, within ten days before the second term of the court, the
defendant shall be entitled to judgment, as in case of non-suit.9 
SEC. 9. The clerks of the district courts shall keep a docket
of all the causes pending in their respective courts, in which
shall be entered the names of the parties, the cause of action,
and the name of the plaintifff's attorney; and they shall furnish
the judge and bar, at each term, with a copy of the same, in
which all indictments and causes to which the people are a
party, shall be first set down, after which shall be set down all
eases in law, in order according to the time of their commence­
ment, and lastly, the suits in chancery. 
SEC. 10. The clerk shall, from time to time, issue aubpcenas
for such witnesses as may be required by either party, return­
able on the day for which the cause in which they are required
to attend is set for trial ; and every clerk who shall refuse so 
to do, shall be fined, a1. the discretion of the court, in any aum
not exceeding one hundred dollars. 
SEC. 11. In all cases pending in any district court in this 
territory, if both the parties shall agree, both matters of law
and fact may be tried by the court," 
SBC. 12. The several distriet courts shall have power, in any
action pending before them, upon motion, and good and suffi­
cient cause shown, and reasonable notice thereof given, to re­
quire parties, or either ef them, to produce books and writings
ia sheir possession or power, which contain evidence pertinent
to the issue; and it shall be the duty of the defendant or de­
fendants where he, she or they intend to prove, on the trial,
any accounts or demands again1t the plaintifff or plaintifffs, t,o 
file, with his plea, a bill of the particular items of such ac­ 
counts or demands; and no other aeoounts or demand, shall be
suffered to be proved to the jury. 
Ssc, 13. On the appearance of the defendant or defendants,
the court may allow such time to plead as may be deemed rea­
sonable and necessary; and for wam of appearance, may give
judgment by default, on calling the cause, except in cases where
the process has not been served, or declaration :filed ten days
before the term of the court ; but all the causes shall be tried, or
otherwise disposed of, in the order in which they are placed on
the docket, unless the court, for good and sufficient cause, shall
otherwise direct; and whenever either party shall apply for the
continuance of a cause on account of the absence of testimony,
the motion shall be grounded on the affidnit of the party ap­
plying, or his, her, or their authorized agent, showing that due
diligence bas been used to obtain such testimony, or the want
of time to obtain it, and also the name and residence of the
witness or witnesses, and what particular fact or facts the party
expects to prove by such witness or witnesses ; and should the
court be satisfied that such evidence would not be material on
the trial of the cause, or if the opposite party will admit that 
the absent witness or witnesses, if present, would swear to tbe
fact or facts stated in the affidavit, the cause shall not be con­
tinued." 
SEC. 14. The defendant may plead as many matters of fact, 
in several pleas, as he may deem necessary for his defense ; or
may plead the general issue, and give notice in writing under
the same, of the special matters intended to be relied on for a
d~fence on the trial,12 under which notice, if adjudged by the
court to be sufficiently clear and explicit, the defendant shall
be permitted to give evidence of the facts therein stated, as if
she same had been specially pleaded, and issue taken thereon; 
and whenever it shall become necessary for the attainment of
justice to allow a. plaintifff to reply several matters to the plea
of a defendant, or to allow a defendant to rejoin several matters
to the replication of a plaintifff, the court in which the action
shall be pending, on the special application of the party desir­
ing 10 to reply or rejoin, may allow the same to be done ; but
no person shall be permitted to deny, on trial, the execution or 
any instrument in writing, whether sealed or not, upon which
any action ,may have been brought, or which shall be pleaded
or set up by way of defense or set-off, unless the person so
denying the same shall, if defendant, verify his plea by affidavit,
and if plaintifff, file his or her affidavit, denying the execution
of such instrument :13 Provided, If the party making such denial
be prosecuted or sued as executor or admiuistrator, ii shall be
sufficient to state, in such affidavit, the belier of the party mak­
ing the same, according to his or her beat knowledge, that such
instrument was not executed by the testator or intestate. 
SEc. 15. In all cases where an interlocutory judgment shall
be given in any action brought upon a penal bond, or upon any
instrument of writing for the payment of money only, and the
damages rest in computation, the court may refer it to the clerk
to assess and report the damages," and may enter the final judg­
ment therefore, without writ of inquiry, and without empanelling
a jury for that purpose; and in all other actions where judg­
ment shall go by default, the plaintifff may have his damages
assessed by a jury in court.16 
SEC. 16. The court may in its discretion, sot aside any de­
fault, upon good and sufficient cause, during the term at which 
the same may have been entered, upon affidavit, and upon such
terms and conditions a! shall be deemed reasonable. 
SEC. 17. All affidavits read in court, during the progress of 
any cause, and relating thereto, shall be filed and preserved by
the clerk. · 
SEC. 18. In actions brought on penal bonds, conditioned for
the performance of covenants, the plaintifff may assign in his
declaration as many breaches as he ma-, think fit,18 and the jury,
whether on trial of the issue, or of inquiry, shall assess the
damages for so many breaches as the plaintifff shall prove, and
the judgment for the penalty shall stand as security for such
other breaches as may afterwards happen; and the plaintifff
may, at any time afterwards, sue out a writ of inquiry to assess
damages for the breach of any covenant or covenants, contained
in such bond subsequent to the former trial or inquiry; and
whenever execution shall be issued upon such judgment, the
clerk shall indorse thereon the amount of the damages assessed
by the jury, with the costs of suit, and the sheriff or coroner
shall only collect the amount so indorsed: Provided, That in all
cases where a writ of inquiry of damages shall be issued, for
any such breaches subsequent to. the first trial or inquiry, the
defendant, or his agent or attorney, shall have at least ten days'.
notiee, in writing, of the time of executing the same. 
SEC. 19. The defendant or defendants, in any actiOIJ. brought: 
upon any contract or agreement, either express or implied, hav­
ing claims or demands against the plaintifff' or plaintifffs in such
action, may plead the same, or give notice t~reof under the·
general issue, as is provided in the fourteenth section of this,
chapter, or under the plea of payment; and the same, or such 
part thereof as the defendant or defendants shall prove on trial,
shall be set-off and allowed against the pluintiff''s demand, and
a verdict shall be given for the balance due; and if it shall
appear that the plaintifff is indebted to the defendant, the jury
shall find a verdict for the defendant or defendants, and certify
to the court the amount so found; and the court shall give
judgment, in favor of such defendant or defendants, for the
amount so certified, with the costs of his defense, and execution.
shall be issued on such judgment, as in other cases." 
SEC. 20. In all civil actions, each party shall be entitled to a
challenge of five jurors, without showing cause for such chal­
lenge; and when the jury retire to consider their verdict, they 
shall be permitted to take any papers that may have been used 
8.8 evidence on the trial.18 
811:0. 21. In all cases in the district court where either party
shall except to any ruling, decision or opinion of the court, and
shall reduce such exception or exceptions to writing, it shall 
be the duty of the judge to allow the same, and to sign and
8eal the same at any time during the term of the court ai which
such exceptions were taken, or at any time thereafter to be fixed
by the court; and at any time when any judge shall neglect or
refuse to allow and sign and seal such bill of exceptions, the•
h shall be lawful for the suitor, or his attorney, to make· and
aitach to such bill of exceptions, the affidavit of two or more
attorneys of the court, or other persons, who were present at
the time of the trial, and when such exceptions were taken,
smting that such bill of exceptions is correct and true ; and
when such bill of exceptions is so allowed and signed and sealed
by the judge, or so attested and proved 'by affidavit, it shall
thereupon be filed by the clerk, and shall become a part of the
record of such cause. 
SEO. 22. Exceptions taken to opinions and decisions of the
district courts, upon the trial of causes in which the parties
agree that both matters of law and fact may be tried by the
court, and in appeal cases tried by the court without the inter­
vention<( a jury, shall be deemed and held to have been prop·
erly taken and allowed ; and the party excepting, may assign
for error, before the supreme court, any decision or opinion so
excepted to, wheJ,her such exception relates to receiving im­
proper, or rejecting proper testimony, or to the final judgment
of the court upon the law and evidence. 
Ssc. 23. Exceptions taken to opinions or decisions1>f the
diatrict courts overruling motions in arrest of judgment, motions
for new trials, and for continuance of causes, shall be allowed ;
and thejarty excepting, may assign for error any opinion so
excepte to.19 
SBC. 24. It shall be sufficient for the jury to pronounce their
verdict by their foreman in open court, without reducing the
same to writing, and the clerk shall enter the same in form, 
under the direction of the court, and if either party may wiah
to except to the verdiet, or for other causes to move for a new
trial, Qr in arrest of judgment, he shall, before :final judgment
be entered, give notice, by himself, or counsel, to the opposite 
party or his counsel, of the exception or motion, and, if de­
manded, shall furnish to the opposite party or his counsel the
points, in writing, particularly specifying the grounds of such
motion, and shall also furnish the judge with a copy of the 
same; and final judgment shall thereupon be stayed until such
motion can be heard by the court; but no more than two trials
ahall be granted to the same party in the same case, nor shall
any verdict or judgment be set aside for irregularity only, nn­
leas cause be shown for the same during the sitting of the court
at the term such verdict or judgment shall be givea, 
SEC. 25. Whenever an entire verdict shall be given on several
counts, the same shall not be set aside, or reversed, if any one
or more of the counts be good ; but if one or more of the counts 
be faulty, the defendant may apply to the court to instruct the 
jury to disregard such faulty counts. 
SEC. 26. In cases of attachment against absent or absconding
debtors, the attaching creditor or creditors shall, on the return
of the attachment, or at the term of the court, where the same
is made returnable, :file a declaration, with a copy of the instru­
ment or account on which the attachment was issued, as in other
cases, after which the cause shall proceed as in other cases ; sud 
if no declaration shall be filed, the def endant on entering his
appearance shall have a judgment against the attaching cred­
itor for costs." 
SEo, 27. Any person for a debt bona fide due, may confess
judgment by himself or attorney, duly authorized, without pro­
cess; and confession of judgment, whether with or without
process, shall operate as a release of all errors in the entering
up of the judgment, or making record thereof; and said judg­
ment may be entered at any time in vacation, upon filing the
proper papers with the clerk of said court,21 and shall have the 
· same force and effect, as if entered in term-time, and shall be a 
lien upon the lands and tenements, and every right and interest
.iherein, of the defendant, from the date of the entry thereof, in
like manner as if entered in term-time; and execution may
Issue thereon at any time after the entry thereof. 
SEC. 28. The district court, in all cases, both civil and crim­
inal, shall only instruct the petit jury as to the law of the
case; and such instructions shall be reduced to writing, and
may be taken by the jury in their retirement, and returned by
them, with their verdict, into court; and when instructions are
asked which the judge cannot give, be shall, on the margin
thereof, write the word "refused," and on such as he approves,
he shall write, on the margin thereof, the word "given;'' and
he shall in no case, after instructions are given, orally qualify,
modify, or in any manner explain the same to the jury: Pro­
oided, That upon request of both parties such instructions may
be given orally, but in such case if either party except to such
Instructions, the same and every part thereof shall immediately
be reduced to writing, and may be taken by the jury when they
retire. 
SEC. 29. Every person desirous of suffering a non-suit on
trial, shall be barred therefrom, unless he do so before the jury
retire from the bar.22 
Sso. 30. Interpreters may be sworn truly to interpret, when
necessary .'Z.3 
SEC. 31. When judgment shall be arrested for any defect in
the record of proceedings, after the first process, the plaintifff'
shall not be compelled to commence his action anew, but the
court shall order new pleadings, to commence with the error
that caused the arrest. 
Sso, 32. In all cases where a tender shall be made, and full
payment offered, by discount or otherwise, as the party by con­
tract or agreement ought to do, and the party to whom such
tender shall be made doth refuse the same, and yet afterwards
will sue for the debt or goods so tendered; or if suit has al­
ready been commenced, aud tender shall be made and full pay­
ment offered, together with the amount of costs already accrued,
and the party to whom such tender shall be made shall continue
to prosecute such cause ; then, in either case, the plaintifff shall
not recover any costs in such suit; and any party pleading a
tender shall pay the same into court. 
Bso. 33. It shall not be necessary to file a declaration in any
scire facias to revive a judgment or foreclose a mortgage, in.
any court of record in this territory. 
Sso, 34:. The clerks of the several district courts shall keep
a fee-book, in which shall be clearly and distinctly set down in
items, under the proper title, the costs of each suit, including
the sheriff's and witnesses' fees, as well as the clerk's fees,
noting distinctly what fees have accrued upon the part of each
party, which fee-book shall be a public record; and whenever
any suit sha11 be determined, and final judgment entered, the
costs and charges of each party litigant shall be made up, and
the costs of the prevailing party shall be included in the judg­
ment, and the clerk shall always send out a bill of costs with
ihe execution; and the costs of the party failing in the suit
shall be collected by fee-bill in the manner prescribed by law.11 
SEC. 35. If any clerk shall issue a fee-bill, or bill of costs.
with an execution, without first entering the same in his fee­
book; or if any such bill of costs, or fee-bill, shall be issued,
which shall not, in substance, be a copy of the recorded bill,
the same shall be void ; and any person having paid such bill
of costs or fee-bill, may recover from the clerk the amount
thereof, with costs of suit, in any court having cognizance
thereof; and in every bill of costs to be made and recorded as
aforesaid, the names of the witnesses shall be stated, with the
number of days each attended at every term. 
SE<.J. 36. It shall not be necessary to insert in the judgment. 
other than the docket-book, the costs of the. prevailing party, 
except in cases where a complete record shall be required; but 
the fee-book of the clerk shall be taken and deemed a part of 
the record, subject however at all times to the correction of the
court. 
Sue. 31. The clerks of the several districs courts, shall pro­
vide and keep, in their respective offices, well-bound books, for
imtering therein an alphabetical docket of all judgments and
decrees rendered in their respective courts; and it shall be the
duty of the said clerks, during every term, or within thirty
days thereafter, to enter, in such docket, all final judgments
and decrees rendered at such term, in alphabetical order, by the
name of the person against whom the judgment or decree was
entered, which shall contain, in columns ruled for that purpose,
the names of the parties, the date, the nature of the judgment
or decree, the amount of the debt, damages, and costs, the book
and page in which it is entered, and leaving a blank column er
columns, for entering a note or memorandum of the satisfaction
or other disposition thereof; and when any judgment or decree
shall be satisfied by execution or otherwise, or shall be set
aside, the clerk shall enter a memorandum thereof, iu the col­
umn left for that purpose, showing how disposed of, and the
date, book, and page where the evidence thereof is recorded;
and such docket may be searched at all reasonable hours, with­
out fee; and every clerk who shall fail to keep such docket, or
to enter therein any judgment or decree, as aforesaid, shall for­
feit and pay a sum not exceeding two hundred dollars, nor Iess
than fifty dollars, and costs of suit ; one half to the use of the
county where such court is held, and the other half to the use
of any person who will sue for the same, to be recovered by
action of debt in the district court. 
SEc. 38. Whenever any sheriff or coroner shall neglect or
:refuse to make return of any execution to him directed and de­
livered, where the same shall be made returnable, or shall re­
fuse or neglect to pay over any monies collected on such exe­
cution, the parties suing out such execution, on giving to such
sheriff or coroner ten days' notice, in writing, of his, her or
their intention, may apply at the next term of the district court
for relief; and it shall be the duty of such court, on proof, by
affidavit, of the delivery of such execution, if the same be not
returned, or on proof that such money bas been collected, and
not paid over, to grant an order against such sheriff or coroner,
requiring him to make immediate return of such execution, or
if the amount, or any part thereof, has been collected, to pay
over the same immediately, with thirty per cent. thereon from
\he time of collection till paid; and on failure of such sheriff
or coroner to comply with such order, on demand and being 
served with a copy of the order, he shaJI be judged to be in
contempt, and punished accordingly ; or the plaintifff in such
execution may ban judgment for the money, with thirty per
cent. thereon, so collected, and have execution as in other case,.2111 
S:a:c. 39. The clerk shall enter in a book, to be kept by him
for that purpose, the returns of the sheriff or coroner of all
executions, within thirty days after the same shall have been
returned, under the penalty imposed by the thirty-seventh sec­
tion of this chapter. 
S:e:o. 40 . .A. party out of term may file a motion to quash an
execution, writ of replevin, writ of attachment, bond, or other
proceedings, and apply to the judge at his chambers for a hear­
mg of the same, by g1 ving to the opposite party, or his attor­ 
ney, reasonable notice of the application; and upon the hearing
of said motion the said judge may require new or additional
securitj' to be given, or may grant an order staying all pro­
ceedings in the case. 
SEC. 41. Appeals to the supreme court from the district court
shall be allowed in all cases where the judgment or deeree ap­
pealed from be final, and shall amount, exclusive of costs, to
the sum of twenty dollars, or relate to a franchise or free-hold:
Provided, Such appeal be prayed for within three days after the
time of rendering the judgment or decree: .And provided, The
party praying for such appeal, shall, by himself, or agent, or
attorney, give bond with a sufficient surety, to be approved by
the district court, ( or the clerk thereof, when the order granting
such appeal may so direct) and filed in the office of the clerk of
the district court, within the time limited by tho court; which
bond shall be in a reasonable sum sufficient to cover the amount
of the judgment appealed from, and costs, and conditioned for
the payment of the judgment, costs, interest, and damages, in
case the judgment shall be affirmed, and also for the due pros­
ecution of the appeal; and the obligee in such bond may at
any time, on a breach of the condition thereof, have and maia­
tain an action at law as on other bonds. The supreme court
may, in its discretion, allow defective appeal-bonds to be 
amended," . 
SEC. 42. The appellant shall Iodge in the office of the clerk
of the supreme court an authenticated copy of the record of
the judgment or decree appealed from, by or before the third 
day of the next term of said supreme court : Provided, That if 
there be not thirty days between the time of making the appeal
and the sitting of the supreme court, then the record shall be
lodged, as aforesaid, at or before the third day of the next suc­
ceeding term of said supreme court; otherwise the said appeal
shall be dismissed, unless further time shall have been granted
by the supreme court, for good cause shown," 
SEC. 43. In all cases of appeals and writs of error, the supreme
court may give final judgment, and issue execution, or remand
the cause to the district court in order that execution mav be 
there issued, or that other proceedings may be had thereon~ 
SEC. 44. When an appeal or writ of error shall be prosecuted
from the judgment of any district court of this territory to the
supreme court, and said appeal or writ of error shall be dis­
missed, or the judgment of 'the district court affirmed, it shall
be the duty of the clerk of the district court from which said
appeal or writ of error was prosecuted, upon a copy of the order
of the supreme court, dismissing said appeal or writ of error,
or affirming said judgment, being filed in his office, to issue exe­
cunou upon such judgment, and to proceed thereon in all re­
spects as though no appeal or writ of error had been prosecuted
from said judgment. 
Ssc. 45. In all cases where a judgment t>r decree shall be 
rendered in any district court, in any case whatever, either in
law or in chancery, against two or more persons, either one of
said persons shall be permitted to remove said suit to the 
supreme court by appeal or writ of error, and for that purpose
shall be permitted to use the names of all said persons, if nec­
essary; but no costs shall be taxed against any yerson who
shall not join in said appeal or writ of error; and al such cases
shall be determined in said supreme court aa other suits are,
and in the same manner as if all the parties had joined in said
appeal or writ of error. 
SEC. 46. 'I'he supreme court, in case of a partial reversal,
shall give such judgment or decree as the inferior court ought
to have given, or remand the cause to the inferior court for fur­
ther proceedings, as the case may require. 
SEC. 47, A writ of error shall not be brought, after the ex­
piration of five years from the rendition of the judgment com­
plained of; but when a person, thinking himself aggrieved by
any judgment or decree, that may be reversed in the supreme
court, shall be an infant, femme covert, non compos mmtis, or im­
prisoned, when the same was rendered, the time of such disa­
bility shall be excluded from the computation of the said :five
years. 
SEC. 48. No writ of error shall operate as a supereedeas, unless
the supreme court, or, if application be made therefore in vaca­
tion, some justice of the supreme court, after inspecting a copy of
the record in the cause, shall order such writ of error to be made
a supersedeas ; nor until the party applying for such writ shall
file a bond in the office of the clerk of the supreme court, with
the cenditions required in cases of appeals, approved by the
court or justice allowing such order for a supersedeas, or, if such
order shall so direct, then by the clerk of some con rt of record;
the clerk issuing such writ of error, shall indorse thereon that 
it shall be a supersedeas, and operate accordingly; and the parties 
in writs of error, shall be subject to the same judgment and
mode of execution as provided in cases or appeal. 
SEC. 49. Whenever the supreme court shall be equally divid­
ed in opinion, on hearing an appeal or writ of error, the judg­
ment of the court below, shall stand affirmed. 
SEC. 50. Any instrument of writing, to which the maker
shall affix a scrawl, by way of seal, shall be of the same effect,
and obligation to all intents, as if' the same were sealed. 
SEC. 51. In all caaea of appeals to the supreme court, where
the appellant shall fail to prosecute the appeal, the supreme
court shall, upon dismissing the appeal, enter judgment against
the appellant for not less than five, nor more than twenty per
cent. upon the amount of the judgment, for damages, in conse­
quence of the delay occasioned by the appeal. 
SBC. 52. In cases of appeals to the district court from judg­
ments of justices ef the peace, the appellee shall be entitled to
judgment, not exceeding twenty per cent. damages on the amount 
of the judgment, if the appeal is dismissed for want of prose­
cution, or if the court shall be satisfied that the appeal was
prosecuted for the purposes of delay. 
SEC. 53. In actions in the name of the assignee upon bonds,
notes, and all writings made assignable by Jaw, the plaintiffr
shall not be held bound to prove the assignment or signature
of the assignor, unless the fact of the assignment be put in
issue, by plea verified, by the affidavit of the defendaat, or some
credible person, stating that he verily believes the facts stated
in the plea are true.28 
SEC. 54. Whenever a plaintifff in any civil action pending in
any court of record in this territory, shall file in the office of
the clerk of the court wherein such cause is pending an affida­
vit, showing that the defendant or defendants in such suit, or
an1 one or more of them, resides or reside, or hath gone out or 
this territory, or that such defendant or defendants ia or are
concealed within this territory, or avoid service of process, so
that process cannot be served upon him, her, or them, or that
such defendant or defendants upon diligent inquiry cannot be
found within this territory, it shall be the duty of the clerk, to
cause a notice to be published in some newspaper, published in
the county in which such cause is pending, or, if no newspaper
is published in such county, then in a newspaper published
nearest to such county, for four successive weeks prior to the
next term of the court in which such action is pending, which
notice shall set forth and state the title of the court in which
such action is pending, the nature of the action, and, if such
action shall be brought to recover money, the amount claimed
by the plaintifff, the names of the parties, and the time when,
and the place where, the next term of court in which sueh
action is pending will be held, and that if the defendants shall
fail to appear at the term of court, and plead er demur, judg­
ment will be entered by <lefault. 
SEC. 55. It shall be the duty of the plaintifff, in all cases in
which notice shall be published, as provided in section fifty-four
of this chapter, in addition to such publication, to leave, or
cause to be left, at the usual place of abode or the defendant or
defendants, with some person above the age of twelve years, if 
any, named in such notice, (and if no sueh person shall then be
found there, then the same shall be pested in some conspieuous
place upon such abode,) a true copy of such notice, at least 
iwe11ty days prior to the term of court mentioned therein, un­
less such plaintifff shall, after diligent inquiry, be unable to find 
any plaee of abode of such defendant or defendants, within this
territory. It sha.11 also be the duty of such plaintifff, if upon
diligent inquiry the place where the defendant or defendants
may then be found, can be ascertained, to send to such defendant 
or defendants, and to each of them, by mail, a true copy of such
notice, properly addressed to such defendant or defendants, ai 
ihe post-office nearest to the place where such defendant or de­
fendants may be found, at least thirty days prior to the term of
court mentioned in such notice. 
Siro. 56. If the first publication of the notice mentioned in
section fifty-four of this chapter, shall not be made at least sixty 
days prior to the first day of the term of court therein men­
tioned, or if such notice shall not be left a.t the usual place of
abode of the defendant or defendants, or if such notice shall
not be sent by mail, as provided in section fifty-five of this
chapter, the cause shall be continued at the cost of the plain­
tiff, to the next succeeding term of the court. 
SJCc. 57. If the defendant or defendants shall fail to interpose
a defense to the action, the plaintifff, upon filing the certificate
of the publisher of the newspaper in which such notice shall
be published, showing that notice hath been published, and also
the affidavit of some credible peraon, showing that notice hath
been left at the usual place of abede, within this territory, of
the defendant or defendants, or that after diligent inquiry, 110 
place of abode of the defendant or defendants can be found
within this territory, and also, that notice hath been sent, by
mail, to the defendant or defendants, or that after diligent in­
quiry, the place where the defendant or defendants may be
found, cannot be ascertained, as provided in this chapter, shall
be entitled to judgment against the defendant or defendants
mentioned in such notice, as is now provided by law, in cases
where personal service of process upon defendants hath been
made. 
SEO. 58. At any time within one year after execution shall
be issued, upon any judgment rendered as provided in section
fifty-seven of this chapter, any defendant against whom judg­
ment shall have been rendered, and who shall not have been
personally served with process, and who shall not have entered
an appearance in the action in which such judgment hath been
rendered, may, after giving reasonable notice to the plaintifff,
apply to the court in which the record of such judgment may
be found, te set the same aside, and to permit sueh defendant to
defend such action; and if upon such application, it shall satis­
factorily appear to the court, that the defendant or defendants
so applying, had no such actual notice of the pendency of the 
auit as would have enabled him, her, or them, to interpose a
defense to the action before judgment was rendered therein,
and also, that such defendant or defendants have a good defense
to the action, upon the merits, the court shall set aside and
vacate such judgment, a.t the costs of the defendant or defend­
ants so applying, and the cause shall thereafter proceed to trial
and judgment, in all respects, as if such defendant or defend­
ants had originally appeared to the action. 
SEC. 59. If the plaintifff shall not sue out execution upon the
judgment rendered, as provided in seetion fifty-seven of this
chapter, within one year next after such judgment shall be
rendered, the same shall, as to all the defendants not personally
served with process, be, and become absolutely null and void,
and of no effect whatever; but such avoidance of the judgment,
shall not be held or construed to prohibit, or in auy manner
affect the right of the plaintifff to bring a Bew action fin the
same cause. 
SEC. 60. The provisions of sections fifty-four to fifty-nine,
both inclusive, of this chapter, shall apply to casee wherein for­
eign corporations and companies are defendants, except in cases
where service may be had upon the president, clerk, secretary,
cashier or agent of any such corporation or company, as pro­
vided in section four of this chapter ; and in all such cases,
service as provided in said section four, shall be deemed and
held to be sufficient to authorize a judgment against any incor­
porated company, whether foreign. or domestic. The provisions
of the sections mentioned above, shall nos apply to suits com­
menced by attachment. 
SEO. 61. In ail cases pending in any court of record, in which
the process shall be served upon the defendant or defendants,
or any of them, ten days prior to the term of court, at which
the same shall be made returnable, and in all cases in which
the defendant or defendants, or any of them, not having been
served with precess, shall notify the plaintifff of his, her, or
their intention to enter his, her, or their appearance at the next
term of the court, ten days prior to such term, the defendant or
defendants, upon entering his, her, or their appearance in the
cause, shall be entitled to a rule upon the plaintifff, requiring
such plaintifff to file a dcclaratiou in the case, within three days
after such rule shall be entered. 
SEC. 62. In all cases in which a writ of error shall be issued,
the clerk of the supreme court shall also issue a scire facias, or
summons to hear errors, directed to the sheriff or other officer
of the proper county, where the defendant or defendants in
error reside, or may be found, commanding him to summon the
defendant or defendants in error, to appear at the next term of
the supreme eourt, and show cause, if any he or they have, 
why the judgment or decree mentioned in the writ of error,
should not be reversed. If there are several defendant, in
error, residing in different counties, the plaintifff in error may
have separate writs issued to each of the counties where such
defendants reside. 
Ssc, 63. If the plaintifff in error, or other person for him, 
shall at any time file in the office of the clerk of the supreme
court, an affidavit, setting forth that the defendant or defendants,
or any of them, has or have gone out of this territory, so that
process cannot be served upon him, her, or them, or that he,
she, or they are not residents of this territory, or on due in­
quiry cannot be found, or is gr are concealed within this terri­
tory, or evade service of process, or that process cannot be
served on him, her, or them, it shall be the duty of the clerk
to cause publication of notice to such defendant, to be made in
some newspaper published in this territory, setting forth the
pendency of the writ of error, the names of the parties, and
the time when the scire facias, or summons, may be returnable ;
which notice shall be published for four consecutive weeks, and 
if the first insertion of such notice shall not be made at least
sixty days before the return-day of the writ of error, the cause
shall be continued to the next succeeding term of the supreme
court, and it shall be the duty of the plaintifff in error, or some
one for him, to send, post-paid, by mail, a copy of such notice
to the defendant or defendants in error, if the place of residence
of him or them shall be known to, or, after diligent inquiry,
can be ascertained by the plaintifff in error; and upon filing a
certificate of the publication of such notice, made by the pub­
lisher of the newspaper in which the same shall be published,
together with an affidavit that copies of such notice have been
sent to the defendant or defendants in error, as herein provided,
or that the residence of such defendant or defendants is un­
known to, and cannot, after diligent inquiry, be ascertained by
the plaintifff in error, the cause shall proceed as if the defendant
or defendants had been personally served with process. 
SEC. 64. N e citizen of the territory of Colorado, in the mili­ 
tary service of the United States, shall be subject, as defendant,
to the provisions of sections fifty-four to sixty-three, inclusive, 
of this chapter.
SEc. 65. Any party plaintifff to a cause in any of the courts 
in this territory, may, at any time, either in term-time or vaca­
tion, file with the clerk of the court in which said suit is pend­
ing, a written order for the dismissal of said cause, signed by
the said plaintifff or by the attorney of record in the cause;
and the clerk of said court shall thereupon enter an order of
dismissal on the records, and may at once issue a fee-bill i'or the
collection of the costs in said case, against the said party plain- 
tiff; and the said cause, upon said order of dismissal being filed,
shall no longer be considered as pending in said court. 
Sic. 66. The party aggrieved by manifest and material error
appearing of record, in any prosecution by indictment, may be
relieved by writ of error, upon complying with the following
terms:· The party complaining that error has been committed
shall, on demand therefore, be furnished by the clerk, with & 
eertifled copy of the record, which record, together with an
assignment of the errors relied on for the reversal of the judg­
ment, shall be presented to the supreme court, or to one of the
justices thereof; and if, after inspecting such transcriet,. the
court or justice aforesaid shall be of opinion that there 1s rea­
sonable cause for allowing a writ of error, the same shall be
granted by order indorsed on the back of said transcript. Up­
on the allowance of such writ of error as aforesaid, the clerk
of the aupreme court shall issue a. supersedeas to stay the execu­
tion of the sentence of the district court, but the prisoner shall
not thereby be discharged from jail: Provided, That the pris­
oner may enter into recognizance, as provided by le.win baila­
ble cases. When any judgment, the execution of which has
been stayed by writ of error, as aforesaid, shall be affirmed, the
supreme court shall, by proper erder, cause the original sen­ 
tence of the district court to be carried out, and in capital
causes fix the time of the execution of the prisoner, a copy of 
which order shall be sufficient authority to the sheriff or other
officer, for carrying out the original sentence and judgment
of the district court, and in capital cases, the execution of any
prisoner therein mentioned at the time specified. 
SEC. 67. No punishment shall be inflicted in any case brought
before the supreme court under the provisions of this chapter,
unless a majority of the justices of said court concur in respect
to such punishment. 
SECTION 1. In case au.y person or persons shall usurp, in­
trude into, or unlawfully hold or execute, any office or fran. 
chise,' it shall and may be lawful for the district attorney of the
proper district, with the leave of the district court,2 to exhibit
to such court an information in the nature of a quo warranto, at 
the relation of any person or persons desiring to sue or prose­
cute the same, who shall be mentioned in such information as
the relator or relaters, against such person or persons so usurp­
ing, intruding into, or unlawfully holding or executing any such
office or franchise, and to proceed therein in such manner as is
usual in cases of information in the nature of quo warranto ; if
it shall appear to said court that the several rights of divers
peraons to the same office or franchise may properly be deter­
mined on one information, it shall and may be lawful for the
said court to give leave to exhibit one such information against.
several persons, in order to try their respective rights to such
office or franchise; and such person or persons, against
whom such information in the nature of a quo warranto shall
be sued or prosecuted, shall appear and plead as of the same
term in which the said information shall be filed, unless the
court shall give further time to such person against whom such
information shall be exhibited, to plead; such person or persons
who shall sue or prosecute such information, shall proceed
thereupon with the most convenient speed that may be. 
SEC. 2. In case the district attorney shall neglect or refuse to
exhibit such information when requested, then any of the relators may exhibit such inf'ormation.3 . 
SEC. 3. In case any person or persons against whom any in·
formation in the nature of a quo warranto shall, in any of' the
said cases, be exhibited as aforesaid, shall be found or adjudged
guilty of any usurpation or intrusion into, or unlawfull1 hold­
ing and executing any office or franchise as aforesaid, 1t shall
and may be lawful for the said courts as well to give judgment
of ouster against. such person or persons, of and from any or 
the offices, or franchises, as to fine such person or persons re­
spectively, for his or their usurping, intruding into, or unlaw­
fully holding and executing, any such office or franchise ; and
also to give judgment that the relater or relaters in such in­
formation named, shall recover his or their costs of such pros­
eoution ; and if judgment shall be given for the defendant or 
defendants in such information, he or· they for whom such judg­
ment shall be given, shall recover his or their costs, therein
expended, against such relator or relators. 
Ssc, 4. It shall be lawful for the court in which any informa­
tion as aforesaid shall be exhibited, to allow to the relator or
relaters, and the defendant or defendants, such convenient time
to plead, reply, rejoin or demur as to said court shall seem rea­
sonable and just. 
SEC. 5. Appeals may be taken from the decision of the dis­
trict court, upon such terms as the said district court shall pre­
scribe, or writs of error may be prosecuted, whenever the su­
preme court, or any of ~he judges thereof, in vacation, upon
being presented with a copy of the record, shall certify that
there is reasonable cause for the bringing such writs; the said
supreme court, or judge in vacation, may impose such terms and
conditions upon the party wishing to prosecute such writ of
error as to the said court or judge may seem reasonable and
just. 'I'he allowance of a writ of error shall operate, after no­
tice thereof, as a stay of proceedings in the district court, until
the determination of such writ of error. 
SECTION 1. Whenever any goods or chattels shall have been
wrongfully distrained, or otherwise wrongfully taken, or shall
be wrongfully detained, an action of replevin ma.y be brought
for the recovery of such goods or chattels, by the owner or per­
son entitled to their possession.' 
Sze. 2. No action of replevin shall lie at the suit of the de­
fendant, in any execution or attachment, to recover goods or
chattels seized by virtue thereof, unless such goods and chattels
are exempted by law from execution or attachment; nor shall
an action of repleviu lie for such goods and chattels, at the
suit of any other peraon, unless he shall, at the time, have a
right to reduce into his possession the goods taken. 
S:a:c. 8. The; person or persons bringing such action, or some
one on his, her, or their behalf; shall, before any writ shall is­ 
sue, make oath or affirmation before the clerk of the· district
court, or any justice of the peace of the proper county, that
the plaintifff in such action is the, owner of the property de­
•cribed in the writ, and about to be replevied, or that he is then
lawfully entitled to the possession thereof, and that the same
has not been taken for any tax, asaeesment, or fine, levied by
virtue of any law of this territory, nor seized under any execu­
tion or attachment against the goods and chattels of auch plain­ 
tiff, liable to execution or attachment.2 
SEC. 4. The proceedings in an action of replevin shall be
commenced by the filing of said affidavit; whereupon a sum­
mons 1hall issue to the defendant, in which shall be stated a de­
scription of the property to be replevied, and the sheriff shall
return the bond by him taken, together with the writ, to the
clerk, who shall file the same. 
SEC. 5. When the oath required in section three is made by
another, in behalf of the claimant, it shall be sufficient to state
that he believes the facts stated in such affidavit to be true. 
SEC. o. Before the execution of any writ of replevin, the
party suing out such writ shall give bond to the officer haying
such writ, with good and sufficient security, in double the value
of the property about to be replevied, conditioned to prose­
cute such suit with effect, and without delay, and make re­
turn of the property, if return thereof should be awarded, and
to pay all damages which :may be adjudged against him for the
detention thereof, and to save and keep harmless such officer in 
replevying such property; and such officer shall thereupon 
serve the writ, and deliver the property to the party suing out,
such writ. 
SEc. 7. If the officer serving any writ of replevin shall fail 
to take and return a bond as required by the preceding section,
or shall return an insufficient bond, such officer shall pay to the
party injured, all damages which he may auatain by reason of
such neglect; to be recovered by an action on the ease, or by ac­ 
tion of debt against such officer and his securities upon his of­ 
ficial bond. 
Sso. 8. If at any time the condition of any such bond, as re­
quired by section six, be broken, the officer to whom sueh bend 
was executed, or the defendant in the action of replevin, in the
name of such officer, to his own use, may maintain an action on
such bond, for the recovery of such damages as may have been
sustained by reason of the breach of such condition. 
SEC. 9. Whenever in any action of replevin the goods and
chattels specified in the writ of replevin to be replevied, cannot
be found by the officer having such writ, or shall not have been
delivered to the officer, the defendant shall be summoned by
virtue of such writ, by the officer reading the same to him, to ap­
pear and answer to tho plaintifff's action for the recovery of the
value of such property; such reading of the writ to have the
same force 'and effect as the service of summons in other ac­
tions. 
SEC. 10. In such action of replevin, in case the property
named in such writ shall not be found or replevied, or shall not
have been delivered as aforesaid, the plaintifff may :file his dec­
laration in trover ; and the cause shall be heard and determined
as other actions of trover.3 
SEC. 11. If the goods and chattels specified in the writ of re­
plevin shall have been replevied and delivered to the plaintifff,
and such plaintifff shall recover judgment in the action, he shall
recover damages for the detention of the property, while in the
possession of the defendant, and shall also have judgment that
he retain possession of such property. If such property shall
not have been replevied and delivered to the plaintifff, such
plaintifff, if he shall recover, shall be entitled to judgment and
execution for the value of such property, or his interest therein,
and such damages as lie shall have sustained by reason of the
wrongful taking or detention thereof, together with costs of suit.~ 
Ssc. 12. If the goods and chattels specified in the writ of re­
plevin shall have been replevied and delivered to the plaintifff,
and such plaintifff shall fail to prosecute his suit with effect and
witheut delay, or shall dismiss his suit, or suffer a non-suit or
discontinuance, or if the right of property, or to the possession
thereof' shall be adjudged against him, tho court, justice of the
peace, or probate judge shall give judgment for a return of the
property taken, to the defendant, and damages for the use of
property, from the time it was taken until the return thereof
shall be adjudged, and also for the costs of suit," If such prop­
erty shall not have been replevied and delivered to the plain­
iiff, and such plaintifff shall fail to prosecute hi! suit as aforesaid,
or shall dismiss his suit, suffer a non-suit or discontinuance, or
the right of property or the possession thereof shall be ad­
judged against him, the defendant shall recover his costs," 
SEC. 13. In all actions of replevin, the party entitled thereto,
shall ha.ve execution upon the judgment rendered in the action,
conformably thereto, and the officer to whom such execution
shall be directed and delivered, shall proceed in the same man­
ner to collect any monies directed to be collected upon such
execution, as upon executions against property in personal ac­ 
tions; and when such execution shall direct the officer to re­
plevy any property and deliver the same to the party in whose 
favor the same shall be issued, such officer shall possess iae 
same powers in respect to replevying tho property described in
such execution, as now provided by law, upon the execution of
writs of replevin. 
Sxc. 14. In any action Hpon any bond given as required by
the provisions of this chapter, where the merits of the case
have not been determined in the action of replevin in which
such bond was given, the defendants mn.,- plead such fact, and
also their title, or the title of :my one or more of them to the
property in dispute in such action of replevin, except in cases
where the plaintifff in such action of replcvin, shall have volun­
tarily dismissed his suit or submitted to a non-suit therein.7 
SEC. 15. Whenever a plaintifff in any action of replevin pend­
ing in any court of record in this territory, shall file an affida­
vit, as provided in the eighth section of the chapter concerning
practice in chancery, the clerk shall cause publication to be
made as provided in said section of said chapter, and after such
publication shall be made, the cause shall proceed in the same
manner as if the defendant had been personally served with
process; and when the case has been cernmeneed in the justice of
the peace or probate courts, and it shall appear upon the return
of the writ that the defendant has not been personally served,
ani no appearance be entered for him, the justice or probate
court shall continue the case ten days, and immediately cause a
notice to be posted in three of the most public places in the
neighborhood of said justice, as in cases ( or as near as may be)
of attachment against non-resident defendants before justices of
the peace. 
SEC. 16. In all actions of rep1evin brought before a justice
of the peace, or probate judge, the writ of replevin may be is­
sued, directed to any constable of the county in which such ae­
tion may be brought, and any constable to whom such writ
may be delivered, is hereby empowered, authorized and re­
quired to receive and approve all bonds, and in all things to ex­
ecute such writ of replevin in the manner prescribed by this
chapter, and to perform all acts in executing such writ, as are
or may be required of sheriffs in this territory in executing
writs of replevin. 
SEC. 17. In all actions of replevin brought before justices of
the peace, the proceedings shall be regulated by tbis chapter;
and in matters not mentioned herein, such proceedings shall be
regulated by the chapter concerning justices of the peace and
constables, and the amendments thereto. 
&o wit: on or before the fifteenth da1 of July, and the fifteenth
day of January, prepare and transmit to the trustees, a state­
ment, showing the increase of the seminary fund in the treasury,
subject to be applied to the support of the university. 
SEC. 11. The trustees are authorized to cause such semi­
annual increase of the funds in the treasury to be deposited in 
the treasury of the board, by a resolution requiring the auditor
to draw his warrant on the treasury, in favor of the person
named in such resolution, for the amount in the treasury. 
SEC. 12. The amount accruing from the seminary fund, after
payment of salaries for each current year, shall be applied as 
follows : First, to the payment of arrears and salaries. 8ectmd,
To provide for library, apparatus, cabinet, &c. Third, T• 
improvement of buildings, grounds, &c. Fourth, Surplus to be
invested as provided for in the preceding sections of this chapter. 
,nor Btatutu B•J>UJW. .Article I. or AD act to eatabllllh the Ulllnratty or ColorNo. A>
IIIOnd Nonmber 7, um. L&w118el, p. 144.. 
ADd 10C1 .Article 11. of the same act, whlch la 1Ull lll roree. 
CHAPTER LXXXVIII. 
VENUE. 
SECTION 1. If either party,1 in any civil cause, in law or 
equity, which may be dependin~ in any district court, shall
fear that he will not receive a fall' trial in the court in which
the action i! pending, on account that the judge is interested,
or prejudiced, or is related to, or shall have been of coUlll81 
for, either party, or that the adverse party has an undue influ­
ence over the minds of the inhabitants of the county wherein
the action is pending, or that the inhabitants of such county
are prejudiced against the applicant, so that he cannot expect a 
fair trial, such party may apply to the court in term-time, or
the judge thereof in vacation, by petition, setting forth the
cause of the application, and praying a change of venue, ac­
companied by an affidavit verifying the facts in the petition
stated; and such court or judge, reasonable notice of the appli­
cation having been given to the other party,2 or his attorney,.
shall award a. change of venue to some county where the causes
complained of, do not exist ;:i aud in all such eases where the
judge is interested, or is related to, or shall have been counsel
for, either party, the court, in term-time, may award a. change
as aforesaid, in its discretion, without any application from:
either party: Provided, That neither party shall have more·
than one change of venue.4 
SEC. 2. Any defendant in any indictment or information shall
be awarded a change of venue, upon setting forth any of the
causes, and in the manner required in the preceding section.•
If the applicant is in custody, or confined in jail, the court or
judge shall make an order to the sheriff to remove the body c,f
such applicant to the jail of the county, if there be a jail in
such county, to which the venue is changed, and there deliver­
him to the keeper of such jail, together with the warrant by
virtue of which he is confined or held in custody, not more
than three days next before the first day of the term of said
court. The sheriff shall deliver such warrant, with the body
of the prisoner, to the jailer of the proper county, who shall 
receive the same and give the sheriff a receipt therefore, and
shall take and keep the prisoner, in the same manner as if he
had been originally committed to his custody: Provided, There
shall be but one change of venue in any criminal case, and not
then till after indictment found. 
SEC. 3. Changes of venue shall not be granted after the first
term at which the party applying for the same might have been
heard, unless the cause shall have arisen subsequent to such
term.8 
SEC. 4. In civil cases, where there are two or more plaintifffs 
OI' defendants, the venue shall not be changed, unless the appli­
cation is made by or with the consent of all the plaintifffs or
defendants, as the case may be ;7 and in criminal cases, where a
shange is granted to part of the defendants, a copy of the in­
dictment, certified by the clerk, and not the original, shall be
transmitted to the court to which the venue is changed. 
SEC. 5. When any judge shall award a change of venue. in
term or vacation, in any cause, civil or criminal, he shall imme­
diately transmit to the clerk of the court wherein the cause is
pending, the petition and affidavit together with an order in
writing, directing the change of nnue; and such clerk shall file
the same in his office, and shall make out a copy thereof, and a
full transcript of the record and proceedings in such cause, and
shall certify and transmit the same to the proper court, together
with all the papers filed in the cause, and appertaining to or
forming part of the record, including, in criminal cases, the in­
dictment ( except in cases provided for in the preceding section),
and recognizance of the party, and all witnesses; and the clerk
of the court to which such cause is changed, shall file the same;
she cause shall thereupon be docketed, and all proceedings had,
as if the cause had originated in the said eourt.8 
SEC. 6. The expenses of a change of venue in a civil suit,
shall be borne by the petitioner, and not taken as part of the
costs of the suit, and a fee-bill shall be made out and issued as
in other cases, and with the same effect: Provided, That where
the venue is changed without application or either party, the
costs shall abide the event of the suit. 
SEc. 7. When the venue is changed in a criminal case, the
parties and witnesses who have entered into recognizance, are
hereby required, on notice of such change, to attend at the 
time and place the trial is to be had according to such change;
and a failure to do so, shall work a forfeiture of their recog­
nizance," 
SEC. 8. Where change of venue has been granted in a crimi­
nal case, and the defendant is convieted and imprisonment shall
be part of the judgment, the sheriff" shall convey such prisoner
at once to the county where the crime was committed, and re­
tain him in custody, according to the judgment of the court.
The costs and charges shall be paid by the county where the
crime was committed, if the defendant be unable to pay them. 
SEC. 9. All questions concerning the regularity of the pro­
ceedings, and the right of the court, to which the change is
made, to try the cause, and execute the judgment, shall be con­
sidered as waived, after trial and verdict," 
SEC. 10. Persons arrested and brought before justices of the
peace for examination, on eharge of any criminal offense, may
have such examination removed from before such justice, by
filing an affidavit that said justice is so prejudiced against him
or them that he or they believe they cannot have a fair and
impartial investigation before such justice; in which case, the
justice shall immediately transmit all papers connected with
such examination, to the next nearest acting justice, or in case 
of his absence, to any other justice of the peace of the next
adjoining precinct in the county, who shall proceed to hear and
determine the matter, as though it originally commenced before
him : Provided, The defendant shall be held in charge, till the
complaint shall be heard and disposed of, by the justice to
whom the papers shall be sent as aforesaid. 

