

1 The distinction between actions at law
2 and suits in equity, and the distinct forms of actions
3 and suits heretofore existing are abolished, and there
4 shall be in this state but one form of civil action for
5 the enforcement or protection of private rights, and
6 the redress or prevention of private wrongs, which shall
7 be the same at law and in equity, and which shall be
8 denominated a civil action, and which shall be prose9
cnted and defended as prescribed in this act.

In such action the party complaining shall
2 be known as the plaintifff, and the adverse party as the
3 defendant.

Every action shall be prosecuted in the
2 name of the real party in interest, except as otherwise
3 provided in this act.

In the case of an assignment of a thing in
2 action, the action by the assignee shall be without preju3 dice to any set-off or other defense existing at the time
4 of, or before notice of assignment; but this section shall
5 not apply to a negotiable promissory note or bill of
6 exchange transferred in good faith and upon good con7
sideration before due.

An executor or administrator, or trustee
2 of an express trust, or a person expressly authorized by
3 statute, may sue without joining with him the person or
4 persons for whose benefit the action is prosecuted. A
5 trustee of an express trust, within the meaning of this
6 section, shall be construed to include a person with
7 whom, or in whose name a contract is made for the
8 benefit of another.

A married woman may sue, and be sued in
2 all matters, the same as if she were sole. 

When an infant is a party he shall appear
- by next friend, of his own selection, or by guardian,
3 who may be appointed by the court in which the action
4 was prosecuted, or by a judge thereof, or a county
5 judge.


The guardian shall be appointed as follows:
2 First—When the infant is plaintifff, upon the appli.i
cation of the infant. if he be of the age of fourteen
years; or if under that age, upon the application of a
5 relative or friend of the infant.
6 Second—When the infant is defendant, upon the appli7
cation of the infant. if he be of the age of fourteen
8 years, and apply within twenty days after the service of
9 the summons; if he be under the age of fourteen, or
10 neglect so to apply, then upon the application of any
11 other party to the action, or of a relative or friend of the
12 infant.

A father, or in case of his death or deser2 tion of his family, the mother, may maintain an action
3 for the injury or death of a child, and a guardian for the
4 injury or death of his ward.

All persons having an interest in the sub2
ject of the action, and in obtaining the relief demanded,
3 may be joined as plaintifffs, except as otherwise provided
4 in this act.


Any person may be made a defendant who
2 has or claims an interest in the controversy adverse to
3 the plaintifff, or who is a necessary party to a complete
4 determination or settlement of lhe question involved
5 therein.

If the parties to the' action, those who are
2 united in interest. shall be joined as plaintifffs, or defendants, but if the consent of any one who should have been
1 joined as plaintifff cannot be obtained, he may be made
5 a defendant, the reason thereof being stated in the comC plaint, and when the question is one of a common or
7 general interest of many persons, or when the parties
8 are numerous, and it is impracticable to bring them all
9 before the court, one or more may sue or defend for the
10 benefit of all, and the court may make an order that the
11 action be so prosecuted or defended.

Persons jointly or severally liable upon the
2 same obligation or instrument, including the parlies to
3 bills of exchange and promissory notes, and sureties on
4 the same or separate instruments, may all or any of them
o be included in the same action, at the option of the
C plaintifff.

When two or more persons associated in any
2 business, transact such business under a common name,
'A whether it comprises the names of such persons or not,
4 the associates may be sued by such common name, the
5 summons in such cases being served on one or more of
6 the associates; but the judgment in such cases shall bind
7 only the joint property of the associates and the separate
8 property of the party served.

An action shall not abate by the death or
2 other disability of a party, or by the transfer of any
3 interest therein, if the cause of action survive or con4
tinue. In case of the death or other disability of a party,
5 the court, on motion, may allow the action to be contin6
ued by, or against his representative or successor in
7 interest. In case of any other transfer of interest.
8 the action may be continued in the name of the
original party, or the court may allow the person to
10 whom the transfer is made to be substituted in the action.

The court may determine any controversy"
2 between the parties before it, when it can be done with3
out prejudice to the rights of others, or by saving
4 their rights; but when a complete determination of the
5 controversy cannot be had without the presence of other
f5 parties, the court shall order them to be brought in.


When in a civil action, a person not a party
'2 thereto, but having an interest in the subject thereof,
3 makes application to the court to be made a party, it
4 may order him to be brought in, and upon due service
5 upon the adverse party of his complaint or answer, the
6 same proceedings shall be had as if he had been an orig7
inal party to the action.

A defendant against whom an action is
2 pending upon contract. or to recover specific, real or per3 soual property, may at any time before answer, upon
4 affidavit that a person not a party to the action, and with5
out collusion with him, makes against him a demand for
C the same debt or property upon due notice to such person
7 and the adverse party, apply to the court for an order to
8 substitute such person in his place. and discharge him
9 from liability to either party, on his depositing in court
10 the amount of the debt. or delivering the property, or its
value to such person as the court may direct, and the
12 court may, in its discretion, make the order.

Successive actions may be maintained upon
2 the same contract or transaction, whenever after the
3 former action a new cause of action arises therefrom.

Whenever two or more actions are pending
2 at one time between the same parties, and in the same
3 court. upon causes of action which might have been
4 joined, the court may order the actions to be consolidated
5 into one.

An action may be brought by one person
2 against another for the purpose of determining a claim,
3 which the latter makes against the former for money or
4 property, upon an alleged liability, and also against two
5 or more persons for the purpose of compelling one to sat6
isfy a debt due to the other, for which the plaintifff is
7 bound as security.

Any person shall be entitled to intervene
2 in an action who has an interest in the matter in liti3
gation, in the success of either of the parties to the action,
4 or an interest against both. An intervention takes place
5 when a third person is permitted to become a party to an
6 action between other persons, either in joining the plain7
tiff in claiming what is sought by the complaint, or by
8 uniting with the defendant in resisting the claims of the
9 plaintifff, or by demanding anything adversely to both
10 the plaintifff and defendant.

The intervention shall be by petition, filed
2 in the cause. either before or after issue joined therein,
3 and it must set forth the grounds upon which the inter4 vention rests. A copy of the petition shall be served
5 upon the parties to the action against whom anything is
6 demanded, who shall answer as if it wt re an original
7 complaint in the action.

The court shall determine upon the inter
2 vention at the same time that the action is decided, sub
3 ject to the power of the court to determine the order
4 and mode of trial of the several issues. If the claim of
5 the party intervening is not sustained, he shall pay all
6 costs incurred by the intervention.

Except when otherwise provided, actions
2 for the following causes shall be tried in the county in
3 which the subject of the action, or some part thereof is
4 situated, subject to the power of the court to change the
5 place of trial as provided in this act.
First—For the recovery of real property, or of any
7 interest therein, or for the determination of any form of
8 such right or interest. and for injuries to real property.
Second—For the partition of real property.
hird —for the foreclosure of a mortgage of real
11 property; Provided, That where such real property is
12 situated partly in one county and partly in another, the
13 plaintifff shall bring his action in the county where the
14 greater portion of such real estate is situate, and the
15 county so selected shall be the proper county for the
16 trial of any or all such actions as are mentioned in this
17 section.

Actions for the following causes shall be
2 tried in the county where the cause, or some part
thereof arose. subject to the like power of the court to
4 change the place of trial.
5 First—For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture
0 imposed by statute, except that when it is imposed for
7 an offense committed on a lake, river or other stream of
8 water situated in two or more counties, the action may
9 be brought in any county bordering on such lake, river
10 or stream and opposite to the place where the offense
11 was committed.
12 Second —Against a public officer or person especially
13 appointed to execute his duties, for an act done by him
14 in virtue of his office, or against a person who by his
15 command, or in his aid, does anything touching the
16 duties of such officer, or for a failure to perform any act
17 or duty which he is by law required to perform.

In all other cases the actions shall be tried
2 in the county in which the defendants, or any of them
may reside at the commencement of the action, or in
4 the county where the plaintifff resides when service is
5 made on the defendant in such county; or if the defend0
ant be a non-resident of this state. the same may be tried
7 in any countyin which thedefendant may be found in this
8 state or in the county designated in the complaint. and if
9 any defendant or defendants are about to depart from
10 the state, such action may be tried in any county
11 where plaintifff resides, or where defendant may be
12 found and service had. Actions on book accounts or
13 for goods sold and delivered, may be tried in the county
14 where the plaintifff resides or in the county where the
15 goods were sold. Actions upon contracts may be tried
10 in the county in which the contract was to be performed;
17 actions upon notes or bills of exchange in the county
18 where the same are made payable; and actions for torts
19 in the county where the tort was committed, subject
however to the power of the court to change the place
21 of trial as provided in this act.

When a county shall be attached to another
2 county for judicial purposes, actions arising or triable
3 therein, of which a district court shall have exclusive
4 jurisdiction, shall be commenced and tried in the county
5 to which such county may be so attached.

The court may, on good cause shown,
2 change the place of trial in the following cases:
3 First—When the county designated in the complaint
4 is not the proper county.
5 Second—When there is reason to believe that an im6
partial trial cannot be had therein.
7 Third—When the convenience of witnesses and the
8 ends of justice would be promoted by the change.
9 Fourth—When from any cause the judge is disquali10 fied to try the action. Provided, The court shall not
11 change the place of trial for the disqualification of the
12 district judge in any case where a competent judge of
13 another district court will appear and try the action, or
14 where the parties to the action agree upon an attorney to
15 preside at the trial of such action.

If either party, in any civil action, which
2 may be depending in any district or county court. shall
3 fear that he will not receive a fair trial in the court in
4 which the action is pending, on account that the judge
5 is interested or prejudiced, or is related to, or shall have
6 been of counsel for either party, or that the adverse party
7 has an undue influence over the minds of the inhabitants
8 of the county wherein the action is pending, or that the
9 inhabitants of the county wherein the action is pending,
10 are prejudiced against the applicant, so that he cannot
11 expect a fair trial, such party may apply to the court in
12 term time, or the judge thereof in vacation, by petition
13 setting forth the cause of application and praying a
14 change of venue, accompanied by an affidavit verifying
15 the facts in the petition stated, and reasonable notice of
16 the application having been given to the other party or
17 his attorney.

If the court to which, or the judge 1o whom
2 such application is addressed shall be of the opinion that
the cause alleged in the petition as a ground for changing
4 the venue exists, the venue shall be changed, but if the
5 court or judge be of the opinion that such cause does
6 not exist, the application shall be denied, and in that
7 case the petitioner may except to the ruling of the court
8 and assign error therein in the supreme court, and such
9 petition may be supported by the affidavit of persons
10 who are not parties to the cause, if the petitioner shall
11 desire to file such affidavits, and the opposite party may
12 present counter petition and affidavits in like manner.
13 Only one change of venue shall be allowed in any action,
14 except in the discretion of the court, to prevent manifest
15 injustice or great inconvenience.

Civil actions shall be commenced by
2 the filing of a complaint with the clerk of the court in
3 which the action is brought, or by the service of a sum4
mons.
5 The complaint must be filed within ten days after the
6 summons is issued, or the action may be dismissed with7
out notice. and in such case the court may, in its discre8
tion, if it shall be of the opinion that the action was
9 vexatiously commenced, tax a reasonable attorney's fee
10 as costs in favor of defendant, to be recovered of plaintifff
11 or his attorney.

The clerk shall endorse on the complaint
2 the day, month and year the same is filed, and at any
3 time within one month after the filing of the same. the
4 plaintifff may have a summons issued. The summons
5 may be signed by the clerk and directed to the defend6
ant, to be issued under the seal of the court, or it may
7 be signed and issued by the attorney for the plaintifff.


The summons shall state the parties to the action, the
2 state. county and court in which it is brought, and
3 require the defendant to appear and answer the com
plaint within twenty days after the service of the sum5 mons, if served in the county in which the action is
G brought; or if served out of such county or by publi
7 cation, within thirty days after the service of the
8 summons, exclusive of the day of service, or that
9 judgment by default will be taken against him
10 according to the prayer of the complaint, and shall
11 briefly state the sum of money or other relief demanded
12 in the action; but the summons shall not be considered
13 void or erroneous on account of an insufficient statement
14 of the relief demanded, unless the same is manifestly
15 misleading. If a copy of the complaint be not served
16 with the summons, or if the service be made out of the
17 state. ten days additional to the time specified in the
18 summons shall be allowed for appearance and answer,
19 but the form of the summons shall be the same in all
20 cases. 

The summons, where a copy of the com2
plaint is served therewith, may be in substance as follows,
3 appropriately filling the several blanks, viz.:
4 STATE OF COLORADO, )
5 County, \ ss6
In the Court.
7 Plaintiff.
8 vs. 1- Summons.
9 Defendant. J
10 THE PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF COLORADO.
11 To ihe defendant above named—Greeting:
12 You are hereby required to appear in an action
13 brought against you by the above named plaintifff, in the
14 court of county, state of
15 Colorado,andanswerthe complaint therein within twenty
16 days after the service hereof, if served within this county,
17 or if served out of this county, or by publication, within
18 forty days after the service hereof, exclusive of the day
19 of service; or judgment by default will be taken against
20 you according to the prayer of the complaint.
21 Given under my hand this
22 day of .A. D. 188. . .
here a copy of the complaint is not served with the
24 summons, or service is had by publication, the above
25 form shall be varied to meet the requirements of the case,
26 as provided for in the preceding section.

In any action, suit (or proceeding for the
2 condemnation of land), or other proceedings affecting
3 the title to real property, the plaintifff at the time of
4 filing the complaint, and the defendant at the time of fil5
ing his answer, when affirmative relief is claimed in
6 such answer, or at any time afterwards during the pen7
dency of such action, suit, or proceeding, may file with
8 the recorder of the county in which the property is sit9
uated a notice of the pendency of the action, suit, or
10 proceeding, containing the names of the parties to, and
11 the object of the action, suit, or proceeding, and a de12
scription of the property in that county affected thereby;
13 and the defendant may also in such notice state the
14 nature and extent of the relief claimed in the answer.
15 Only from the time of filing such notice shall the pen16
dency of the action, suit, or proceeding be constructive
17 notice of the action, suit, or proceeding, to a purchaser
18 or encumbrancer of the property described in the com19 plaint, petition or answer. 

The summons shall be served by the
2 sheriff of the county where the defendant is found, or
3 by his deputy, or by any person not a party to the action.
4 When the summons is served by the sheriff, or his
5 deputy, it shall be returned with the certificate of the
6 officer of its service to the clerk or attorney who issued
7 the same. When the summons is served by any other
8 person, it shall be returned as before provided, with the
9 affidavit of such person of its service.

A summons shall be served as follows:
3 First—Bydeliveringaeopythereof to each defendant,
4 named therein; or
5 Second— By leaving a copy of the writ at the usual
f, place of abodeof eachdefendantnamed therein, with some
member of the family, in which he resides, who is over the
8 age of fifteen years; or
9 Third—At the usual place of business of the defend10 ant to be served (if he have one) with his clerk or book11
keeper thereat.
Fourth—If theaction be against a municipal corpora13 tion, by delivering a copy of the summons to the mayor or
14 clerk of such corporation. 
ifth—If theaction beagainsta county, by delivering
16 acopyofthesummonstothe county clerk of such county.
Sixth—If theaction beagainsta school district, by de18
livering a copy of the summons to the clerk or one of the
19 directors of such school district.
Seventh—If the action be against a private corpora21
tion, by delivering a copy of the summons to the president
22 or other chief officer of such corporation, or to the secre23
tary,treasurer,cashierorothergeneral agent thereof ; but
24 if no such officer of the corporation can be found in the
25 county in which theaction is brought, then service may be
26 made by delivering a copy of the summons to any stock27
holder of such corporation, who may be found in such
28 county.
Eighth—If theaction beagainsta railroad company,
30 whether organized under the laws of this state or of any
31 otherstateorterritory,and whether thecharter prescribes
32 the manner or place of the service of process on such com33
pany, the summons may be served by delivering a copy
34 thereof to the president, or vice-president, or secretary, or
35 treasurer, or cashier of such company : Provided, That if
36 no such officer be found in the county, in which the action
37 is brought, service of summons may be made by deliv38
ering a copy thereof to any regular or acting ticket agent
39 of such company, having his office in the county in which
40 the action is brought.
inth—If the action be against a foreign corporation,
42 or jointstock company or association, organized under the
43 laws of another state or territory, and doing businesswithin this state the summons shall be served by deliver45 ing a copy to any agent of such corporation, company or
46 association found in the county in which the action is
47 brought. If no such agent be found in such county, then
48 by delivering a copy of the summons to any stockholder
49 who may be found in such county.
Tenth—If suit be brought against a minor under the
51 age of fifteen years, the summons shall be served by
52 delivering a copy of the writ to him personally,alsoacopy
53 to his or her father, mother or guardian; or if there be
54 none such in the state, then by delivering a copy to any
55 person having care or control of such minor, or with whom
56 he or she resides, or in whose service he or she is em57
ployed.
Eleventh—If the action be against a person judicially
59 declared to be incapable of conducting his or her own
60 affairs, and for whom a guardian has been appointed under
61 the provisions of chapter LXIX of General . Statutes
62 entitled "Lunatics," summons shall be served by deliver03
ing a copy of the writ to such guardian. 

This act shall be liberally construed, and no
2 service of summons shall be set aside or quashed for any
3 technical error, defect or omission, either in the summons
4 or in the service of the summons which error, defect or
5 omission does not affect some substantial right of the
0 defendant or defendants therewith served. 

All acts or parts of acts inconsistent with the
2 provisions of this act are hereby repealed; but nothing
3 herein contained shall be held to repeal any provision of
4 law, now in force which authorizes or permits a summons
5 to be served in any other county of the state, than that in
6 which the action is brought. 

When there are several defendants resid2 ing in different counties, a separate summons may be
3 issued to each county, for the service of the defendants
4 residing therein, an alias or pluries summons may be
5 issued and served in like manner as the original at any
6 time.

A written acknowledgment of service of
2 summons upon him by a defendant, shall be deemed
3 valid and sufficient service. When the defendant shall
4 refuse or receive a copy of the summons, the offer of the
5 officer or other person to deliver a copy thereof shall be
6 deemed sufficient service of such summons; Provided,
7 That the person serving the same, shall state that it is a
8 summons.

Service by publication shall be allowed
2 only after summons issued and return thereon made,
3 that the defendant, after diligent search, cannot be
4 found. After such return, not less than ten days after
5 issue of summons, publication shall be made by order of
6 the clerk of the proper court, but shall be made only in
7 cases of attachment, foreclosure. claims and delivery,
8 or other proceedings where specific property is to
9 be affected, or the procedure is such as is known a,s a
10 proceeding in rem. After return is made, as aforesaid
11 the case bring such as hereinbefore mentioned the plain
tiff or one of the plaintifffs may file in the offiee of the
13 proper clerk an affidavit stating that the defendant
14 resides out of the state. or has departed from the state
15 without intention of returning, or concealed himself to
16 avoid the service of process and giving his postoffice
17 address, if known, or stating his postoffice address
18 is not known to affiant, wherenpon the order of publica19
tion shall be made by the clerk. The order shall direct
20 the publication to be made in a public newspaper
21 published in the county. Such publication shall be
22 made at least once a week for four successive weeks.
23 When the affidavit gives the postoffice address of the
24 defendant, the clerk shall mail a copy of the summons,
25 duly stamped, to the defendant, at such address forth26
with. The service shall be complete at the
27 expiration of ten days from the date of the last publica28
tion. When no newspaper is published within the
29 county, the clerk shall designate a newspaper published
30 in some adjoining county"; Provided, That if the plain31
tiff does not reside in the state or is absent from the
32 state, the affidavit for service by publication may be
33 made by the plaintifff's attorney in the action. 

Where the action is against two or more
2 defendants, and the summons is served on one or more.
3 but not on all of them, the plaintifff may proceed as fol4 lows: First. if the action be against defendants jointly
5 indebted upon a contract, he may proceed against the
6 defendants served, unless the court otherwise directs;
7 (and if he recover judgment, it may be entered against
8 all the defendants thus jointly indebted so far only as
9 that it may be enforced against the joint property of all,
10 and the separate property of the defendants served).
11 Second, if the action be against defendants severally lia12
ble. he may proceed against the defendants served in the
13 same manner as if they were the only defendants.

Proof of tht; service of the summons shall
2 be as follows: First, if served by the sheriff or his dep3
ut,y, the certificate of such sheriff or deputy. Second,
4 if by any other person, his affidavit thereof. Third, in
5 case of publication the affidavit of the editor, publisher,
6 or his foreman, or his principal clerk, showing the same,
7 and an affidavit of a deposit of a copy of the summons
8 in the postoffice, if the same shall have been deposited.
9 Fourth, The written admission of defendant proved
10 by the certificate of an officer authorized to serve sum11
mons, or the affidavit of some credible witness. In
12 case of service otherwise than by publication, the certi13
ticate or affidavit shall state the time. place and manner
14 of the service.


From the time of the filing of the com2 plaint, or the service of the summons in a civil action,
3 the court shall be deemed to have acquired jurisdiction,
4 and to have control of all subsequent proceedings. A
5 voluntary appearance of a defendant shall be equivalent
6 to personal service of the summons upon him. If any
7 plaintifff shall allege that there are. or that he verily
8 believes that there are. persons interested in the subject
9 matter of the complaint, whose names he cannot insert
10 therein, because they are unknown to him, and shall
11 describe the interest of such persons, and how derived
12 so far as his knowledge extends, the court, or the judge
13 thereof in vacation, shall make an order as in case of
14 non-residents for publication of the summons, reciting,
15 moreover, the substance of the allegations of the com16
plaint in relation to the interest of such unknown parties,
17 and after the completion of service by such publication,
18 the court shall have jurisdiction of such person, and any
19 judgment or decree rendered in the action. The action
20 shall apply to and conclude such person with respect to
21 such intent in the subject matter of the action.

The summons and the pleadings, both of
2 law and of fact. and all petitions, motions, orders and
3 judgments, and other papers as far as practicable, shall,
4 as soon as filed, be firmly attached together by the clerk,
5 and shall not be removed from his office or custody
6 except upon the order of the court or judge. The party
7 filing any pleading of fact, or amendment thereto, or
8 any demurrer, petition, or motion in any cause, shall
9 also lodge with the clerk a copy thereof for the adverse
10 party, unless it shall appear that such adverse party, or
11 his attorney, has already received such copy, and in
12 default of so doing the clerk shall, upon request of the
13 adverse party, make such copy, taxing the cost thereof
14 against the party so in default. The clerk shall also, at
15 the request of either party, make a copy or copies of any
16 paper filed in the action, and shall allow parties and their
17 attorneys to make such copies for themselves.

The pleadings in any action are the formal
2 allegations by the parties of their respective claims and
3 defenses for the judgment of the court.


The mode of pleading in civil actions, and
2 the rules by which the sufficiency of the pleadings shall
3 be determined, shall be as prescribed in this act, and not
4 otherwise.

The only pleadings on the part of the
2 plaintifff, shall be the complaint. demurrer or replication
3 to the defendant's answer; and the pleadings on the part
4 of the defendant shall be a demurrer to the complaint, or
5 a demurrer to the replication, or an answer to the comG plaint. The pleadings shall be filed with the clerk.


The complaint shall contain: First. the
2 title of the action, specifying the name of the court and
3 the name of the county in which the action is brought,'
4 and the names of the parties to the action, plaintifff and
5 defendant. Second, a statement of l he facts constituting
6 the cause of action, in ordinary and concise language,
7 without unnecessary repetition. Third, a demand for
8 the relief which plaintifff claims, and if the recovery of
9 money or damages be demanded, the amount thereof
10 shall be stated


The defendant may demur to the complaint
2 within the time required in the summons to answer.
3 when it appears upon the face thereof; either, first, that
the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the defend5 ant, or the subject of the action; or, second, that the
6 plaintifff has no legal capacity to sue; or, third, that there
7 is another action penuing between the same parties for
8 the same cause; or, fourth, that there is a defect or mis9
joinder of parties, plaintifff or defendant; or, fifth, that
10 several causes of action have been improperly united;
11 or, sixth, that the complaint does not state facts suffi12
cient to constitute a cause of action; or, seventh, that
13 the complaint is ambiguous, unintelligible and uncertain.

The demurrer shall distinctly specify the
2 grounds upon which any of tlx? objections to the com3
plaint are taken; unless it do so. it may be disregarded.

The defendant may demur to the whole
2 complaint, or to one or more of the several causes of
3 action stated therein and answer the residue, but demur4
rers must be disposed of before any other pleading to
5 the same cause of action shall be filed, or they will be
C deemed waived.

If the complaint is amended, a copy of the
2 amendments shall be filed, or the court may, in its dis3 cretion, require the complaint as amended to be filed,
4 and the defendant shall answer in such time as may be
5 ordered by the court, and judgment by default may be
6 entered, upon failure to plead as in other cases.

When any of the matters enumerated as
2 demurrable, do not appear upon the face of the com3 plaint. the objection may be taken by answer.


If no such objection be taken either by
2 demurrer or answer, the defendant shall be deemed to
3 have waived the same, excepting only the objection to
4 the jurisdiction of the court. and the objection that the
5 complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
6 cause of action, which objections may be raised at any
7 time.

The answer of the defendant shall contain:
2 First, a general or specific denial of each material alle3
gation in the complaint intended to be controverted by
4 the defendant; second, a statement of any new matter
5 constituting a defense, or counterclaim in ordinary and
6 concise language, without unnecessary repetition. In
7 denying any allegation in the complaint not pre8
sumptively within the knowledge of the defendant, it
9 shall be sufficient to put such allegations in issue, for
10 the defendant to state, as to such allegation, that he has
11 not and cannot obtain sufficient knowledge or informa12 tion upon which to base a belief.


The counterclaim mentioned in the last
- section shall be one existing in favor of the defendant
I) or plaintifff, and against a plaintifff or defendant, between
4 whom a several judgment might be had in the action,
5 and arising out of one of the following causes of action:
tj First, a cause of action arising out of the transaction
7 set forth in the complaint or answer, as the foundation
S of the plaintifff's claim or defendant's defense, or con0
nected with the subject of the action. Second, in an
10 action arising upon contract, any other cause of action
11 arising also upon contract, and existing at the com12 menceuient of the action.


When cross-demands have existed between
2 persons under such circumstances, that if one had
3 brought an action against the other a counterclaim
4 could have been set up, neither shall be deprived of the
5 benefit thereof by the assignment or death of the other,
6 but the two demands shall be deemed compensated so far
7 as they equal each other.


The defendant may set forth by answer as
2 many defenses and counterclaims as he may have,
3 whether the subject matters of such defense be such as
4 was heretofore denominated legal or equitable, or both,
5 they shall be separately stated, and the several defenses
0 shall refer to the causes of action which they are intended
7 to answer in a manner by which they may be intelligi8
bly distinguished.

When the answer contains new inat2
ter, constituting a defense or counterclaim, the plaintifff
3 shall within ten days after defendant hasgivenhim notice
4 iu writing that such answer has been filed, such notice
5 may be served upon such party or his attorney, said days
6 to be computed from the time of giving such notice in
7 writing, reply or demur to the same for insufficiency,
8 stating in the demurrer the grounds thereof ; and he may
9 also, within the same time, demur to one or more
10 defenses set up in the answer. Sham and irrelevant
11 answers and defenses, and so much of any pleading as
12 may be irrelevant, redundant, immaterial or insufficient
13 may be stricken out, on motion, and on such terms as
14 the court in its discretion may impose. When any
15 pleading is too general in its terms to be readily under1G stood, the court may, on motion, require the saine to be
17 made more specific and certain, or may require a bill of
18 particulars to be filed therewith. When any motion in
19 writing, affecting any pleadings or for judgment on
20 the pleadings, shall be filed, and ruling or decision had
21 thereon, the said motion, and the ruling or decision,
22 shall be taken as a part of the record, without making
23 the same such by a bill of exceptions. The defendant
24 may, within ten days after the service of a notice in
25 writing upon himself or attorney that a replication
26 has been filed, demur thereto for insufficiency, or to any
27 part thereof, or may move to strike out the same or any
28 part thereof, for any cause which may exist therefore.

Every pleading must be subscribed by the
2 party or his attorney. When any pleading is verified
3 every subsequent pleading, except a demurrer, must be
4 verified also; but the verification may be omitted when
5 an admission of the allegations might subject the party
6 to prosecution for felony. And no pleading can be used
7 in a criminal prosecution as evidence of a fact admitted
8 or alleged in such pleading. In all cases of a verification
9 of a pleading, the affidavit of the party must state that
10 the same is true of his own knowledge; except as to the
11 matters which are therein stated on his information and
12 belieT, and as to those matters, that he believes it to be
13 tru(:, and when a pleading is verified it must be by the
14 affidavit of a party, unless the parties are absent from
15 th(; county where the attorney resides, or from some
16 caiise unable to verify it, or the facts are within the
17 k iowledge of his attorney, or other person verifying the
18 same. When the pleading is verified by the attorney or
any other person, except one of the parties, he must set
20 forth in the affidavit. the reasons why it is not made by
21 one of the parties.

When a corporation is a party (lie pleading
2 may be verified by any officer, stockholder, agent. super3 intendent or attorney thereof, and shall state that the
4 facts stated in the pleadings are true to the best knowl5
edge and belief of such affiant. When an action is
6 brought upon a written instrument, and the complaint
7 contains a copy of such instrument, or a copy is annexed
thereto, the genuineness and due execution of such in9 strument is deemed admitted, unless the answer denying
10 the same be verified.

It shall not be necessary for a party to set
2 forth in a pleading the items of an account therein
3 alleged; but he shall within five days after a demand
4 therof in writing by the adverse party, deliver to him
5 or file a copy of such account. or be precluded from giv6
ing evidence thereof. The court or judge may on
7 motion, limit or extend the time for delivering or filing
8 such account, and may order a further account when the
9 one delivered or filed is too general or is defective in any
10 particular.


In an action for the recovery of real prop2
erty, such property shall be described by legal subdivi3
sious, or by its metes and bounds, in the complaint.

In pleading a judgment or other determina2
tion of a court or officer of especial jurisdiction, it shall
3 not be uecessaiy to state the facts conferring jurisdiction
4 but such judgment or determination may be stated to
5 have been duly given or made. If such allegation be
6 controverted, the party pleading shall be bound to estab7
lish on the trial the facts conferring jurisdiction.

In pleading the performance of conditions,
2 precedent in a contract, it shall not be necessary to state
3 the facts showing such performance, but it may be stated
4 generally that the party duly performed all the condi5
tions on his part. and if such allegations be controverted
6 the party pleading shall establish on the trial the facts
7 showing such performance.

In pleading a private statute or a right
2 derived therefrom, it shall be sufficient to refer to such
3 statute by its title, and the day of its approval, and the
4 court shall therenpon take judicial notice thereof.


In an action for libel or slander, it shall not
2 be necessary to state in the complaint any extrinsic facts,
3 for the purpose of showing the application to the
4 plaintifff, of the defamatory matter out of which the
5 cause of action arose; but it shall be sufficient to
6 state generally that the same was published or spoken
7 concerning the plaintifff; and if such allegation be con8
troverted, the plaintifff shall establish on the trial that it
9 was sq published or spoken.

In an action or libel or slander the defend2 ant may, in his answer allege both the truth of the
3 matter charged as defamatory and any mitigating
4 circumstances to reduce the amount of damages, and
5 whether he prove the justification or not he may give
6 in evidence the mitigating circumstances.

The plaintill' may unite several causes of
2 action in the same complaint, when they all arise out of
3 any one of the following named classes: Provided,
4 They affect all of the same parties, both plaintifff and
5 defendant, and affect them in the same character and
6 capacity; and provided, They do not require different
7 places of trial, to- wit:
Class First—Actions to recover specific real property,
9 whether the same be claimed by virtue of superiority of
10 title or by superiority of possessory right, or ou account
11 of unlawful detainer or forcible entry; and with
12 such claims may be united, any and all claims for
13 damages, for rents in arrear, for profits during any
14 unlawful occupation thereof, and for any waste com15
mitted thereon. Provided, That all such claims arise
16 from the same property for the recovery of which the
17 suit is brought.
18 Class Second—Action to recover specific personal
19 property with which may be joined any and all claims for
20 damages for the unlawful detention of the same, or for
21 the forcible taking of the same, including in proper
22 cases, claims for exemplary damages and in case the
23 property cannot be recovered in specie, damages for the
24 unlawful conversion thereof.
25 Class Third—All actions sounding only in damages,
26 whether the same be for breach of contract, sealed
27 or parol, express or implied, or for injuries to property,
28 person or character, or for any two or more of these
29 causes, and in all cases it shall be necessary to state
30 separately in the complaint the different causes for
31 which the action is brought, and in all cases equitable
32 relief may be granted.


Every material allegation of the complaint
'2 or answer, not controverted by the answer or replication
3 thereto, shall, for the purposes of the action, be taken as
4 true. The statement in the replication of the matter in
5 avoidance shall, on the trial, be deemed controverted by
6 the adverse party. The replication may be general in
7 terms denying all new matters set up in the answer.


A material allegation in a pleading is one
2 essential to the claim or defense, and which could not be
3 stricken from the pleading without leaving it insufficient.

After the demurrer, and before the trial of
2 the issue of law therein, the pleadings demurred to, may
3 be amended as of course, and without costs, by filing the
4 same as amended and serving a copy thereof on the
5 adverse party, or his attorney, within ten days, who shall
6 have ten days thereafter in which to demur or answer
7 thereto, if in vacation; but if during the term of court,
8 the court shall fix the time by order to expedite the trial,
9 but the party shall not so amend more than once. A
demurrer shall be deemed waived by the filing of an
11 answer or reply to the same cause of action or defense.


When a de2
mnrrer is decided, either in term time. or vacation,
the court or judge shall immediately cause the decision
4 thereof to be entered in the record, and may proceed to
5 final judgment thereon in favor of the successful party,
6 unless the unsuccessful party shall plead over or amend
7 upon such terms as shall be just, and the court or judge
8 may fix the time for pleading over and filing amended
9 pleadings; and if the same be not filed within the time
10 so fixed, judgment by default may be entered as in other
11 cases. When facts occurring subsequent to the com12
mencement of an action render it proper, the same may,
13 by leave of the court, be presented by supplemental
14 pleadings, and issue taken thereon as in case of original
15 pleadings. 

The court maj', on motion, in furtherance
2 of justice and on such terms as may be proper, amend
3 any pleading or proceeding, adding or striking out the
4 name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the
5 name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect. and
6 may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for an answer,
7 replication or demurrer. The court may likewise. upon
8 affidavit showing good cause therefore, after notice to the
9 adverse party, allow, upon such terms as may be just, an
10 amendment to any pleading or proceeding in any other
11 particular, and may upon like terms allow an answer,
12 to be made after the time limited by this act. and may
13 upon such terms as may be just. and upon payment of
14 costs, relieve a party or his legal representative from a
15 judgment order or other proceeding taken against him
16 through mistake, inadvertance. surprise or excusable
17 neglect; and when, for any cause satisfactory to the
18 court. or the judge at chambers, the party aggrieved has
19 been unable to apply for the relief sought during the
20 term at which such judgment. order or proceeding com
plained of was taken, the court or judge at chambers in
22 vacation, may grant the relief upon application, made
23 within a reasonable time, not exceeding six months after
24 the adjournment of the term. When, for any cause, the
25 summons in an action has not been personally served on
26 the defendant, the court inay allow, on such terms as may
27 be just. such defendant, or his legal representatives, at
28 any time within one year after the rendition of any
29 judgment in such action, to answer to the merits of the
30 original action. 

When the plaintifff is ignorant of the name
2 of a defendant and such fact is alleged in the complaint,
3 such defendant may be designated in any pleading or
4 proceeding by any name, and when his true name is dis5
covered the pleadings or proceedings may be amended
6 accordingly.

.In the construction of a pleading for the
2 purpose of determining its effect, its allegations shall be
3 liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice
4 between the parties.


The court shall
2 in every stage of an action disregard any error or defect
3 in the pleadings or proceedings which shall not affect
4 the substantial rights of the parties, and no judgment
.5 shall be reversed or affected by reason of such error or
(i defect. If, upon the trial of an action before the court
7 or jury, the evidence shall vary from the allegations of
8 the pleadings, and either party is surprised thereby, he
1) shall be allowed, on motion and showing cause therefore,
10 and on such terms as the court may prescribe, to amend
11 his pleadings to conform to proofs; any error, defect or
12 abuse of discretion manifestly and materially affecting
13 the substantial lights of any party to the action may be
14 received and corrected by the supreme court on appeal
15 or writ of error, whether occurring before, at. or after
10 the final judgment; but this shall not be construed as
17 allowing the prosecution of any appeal or writ of error
18 before final judgment. 

The plaintifff in an action to recover
2 possession of personal property, may at the time of filing
3 the complaint, or issuing the summons, or at any time
4 before judgment, claim the delivery of such property to.
5 him, as provided in this chapter.

Where a delivery is claimed, an affidavit
2 shall be made by the plaintifff, or some one in his behalf
3 showing:
4 First —That the plaintifff is the owner of the property
5 claimed, particularly describing it ; or is lawfully entitled
f? to the possession thereof.
7 Second —That the property is wrongfully detained by
8 the defendant.
9 Third —That the same has not been taken for a tax,
10 assessment or fine, pursuant to a statute. or seized under
11 an execution or attachment against the property of the
plaintifff, or if seized, that it is by the statute exempt
13 from such seizure; and
14 Fourth—The real value of the property, which afflda15
vit shall be filed with the clerk of the court.

The plaintifff, or his agent, shall file with
2 the clerk of the court a written undertaking executed by
3 two or more sufficient sureties, approved by the clerk to
4 the effect that they are bound to the defendant in double
5 the value of the property as stated in the affidavit for the
6 prosecution of the action without delay and with effect,
7 and for the return of the property to the defendant. if
8 return thereof be adjudged, and for the payment to him
9 of such sum as may from any cause be recovered against
10 the plaintifff. The clerk shall therenpon issue a writ
11 requiring the sheriff to forthwith take the property de12
scribed in the affidavit. if it be in possession of the
13 defendant, or his agent. and retain it in his custody until
14 delivered as hereinafter provided. The sheriff shall
15 also, without delay, serve on the defendant a copy of the
16 writ. by delivering to him. personally, if he can be
17 found, or to his agent, from whose possession the prop18
erty is taken; or, if neither can be found, by leaving
19 them at the usual abode of the defendant with some
member of his family over the age of fifteen years; or,
21 if he has no place of abode. by putting said copy in the
22 nearest postoffice, directed to the defendant.

The defendant may, within five days after
2 the service of a copy of a writ. give notice to the clerk,
3 that he excepts to the sufficiency of the sureties on
4 plaintifff's undertaking. If he fails to do so within five
5 days after such service, he shall be deemed to have
6 waived all objections to them. When the defendant
7 excepts, the sureties shall justify, on notice, before the
8 clerk of the court, within five days after such notice,
9 and if they fail to justify in said time, the property shall
10 be returned by the sheriff to the defendant. The clerk
11 shall be responsible for the sufficiency of the sureties
12 until the objection to them is waived as above provided,
13 or until they justify. If the defendant except to the
14 sureties, he cannot reclaim the property as provided in
15 the next section.

At any time within forty-eight hours, from
2 the time of the taking of the property and the service of
3 the writ, the defendant may, if he do not except to the
4 sureties of the plaintifff, require the return of the prop5
erty upon giving to the sheriff a written undertaking,
6 executed by two or more- sufficient sureties who shall
7 justify before such undertaking shall be accepted or
8 approved, to the effect that they are bound to the plaintifff
9 in double the value of the property, as stated in the
10 affidavit of the plaintifff, for the delivery thereof to the
11 plaintifff, if such delivery be adjudged, and for the pay12 ment to him of such sum as may for any cause be recov
13 ered against the defendant. If a return of the property
14 be not so required in such time, it shall be delivered to
15 the plaintifff, except as provided in this chapter.


The qualification of sureties and their
2 justification shall be such as are prescribed by this act
3 in respect to sureties on attachment bonds or undertak4
ings. If at any time pending an action under the pro5
visions of this chapter, it shall appear to the court, or
6 the judge thereof, in which the action is pending, that
7 any undertaking given is insufficient or that any surety
8 therein has died or has removed from this state, or is or
9 has become or is likely to become insolvent, said court
10 or the judge thereof in vacation, shall order another and
11 satisfactory undertaking to be given within such time as
12 the court shall direct, notice in writing having been pre13
viously given to the adverse party of the intended appli14
cation for such order. If any person to whom such
15 order shall be directed, shall fail to comply with the
16 terras thereof, the court shall order the return of the
17 property to the adverse party pending the trial.


The court shall allow upon such terms and
2 within such time as may be just, the giving of amended
3 or additional undertakings or affidavits in place of defec4
tive or insufficient ones given under the provisions of the
5 chapter.


If the property or any part thereof be con2 cealed in a building or ipclosure. the sheriff shall pub3
licly demand its delivery, if it be not delivered, he shall
4 cause the building or enclosure to be broken open, and
5 take the property into his possession; and if necessary
(i he may call to his aid the power of his county.

When the sheriff shall have taken property
2 as in this chapter provided, he shall keep it in a secure
3 place. and deliver it to the party entitled thereto, upon
4 receiving his lawful fees for taking, and his necessary
5 expenses for keeping the same.

If the property taken be claimed by any
'2 other person than the defendant, or his agent, and such
3 person make affidavit of his title thereto, or right to the
4 possession thereof, stating the grounds of such title or
. 5 right and serve the same upon the sheriff, the sheriff
6 shall not be bound to keep the property or deliver it to
7 the plaintifff, unless the plaintifff on demand of him or
8 his agent, indemnify the sheriff against such claim by
!) an undertaking with two sufficient sureties accompanied
10 by their affidavits that they are each worth double the
11 value of the property as specified in the affidavit of the
12 plaintifff, over and above their debts and liabilities exclu13
sive of property exempt from execution, and are free14
holders or householders in the state and no claim to
15 such property by any other person than the defendant or
16 his agent, shall be valid against the sheriff unless so
17 made.

If the property taken be of extraordinary
2 kind,orof uncertain value, any claimant thereof , whether
3 party to the action, or' otherwise, may apply to the court
4 or judge by verified petition, upon due notice to other
5 parties and claimants, and therenpon the court or judge
6 may, after a hearing, upon affidavits or otherwise, direct
7 in whose custody the property shall be kept pending the
8 litigation, and may require the custodian to give bond
9 with sufficient surety for the forthcoming of the prop10 erty to abide the further order of the court.


The sheriff shall file the notice and all
2 undertakings and affidavits with his proceedings thereon,
3 with the clerk of the court in which the action is pend4
ing, within twenty days after taking the property men5
tioned therein.

The plaintifff, at the time of issuing the
2 summons or filing the complaint in an action on contract,
3 express or implied, or at any time afterward before judg4
ment, may have the property of the defendant, not
exempt from execution, attached as security for any
6 judgment that may be recovered in such action in the
7 manner prescribed in this chapter, unless the defendant
8 shall give good and sufficient security to secure the pay9
ment of such judgment.

No writ of attachment shall issue unless
2 the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, or some credible
3 person for him, shall file in the office of the clerk of the
4 court in which the action is brought. an affidavit setting
5 forth that the defendant is indebted to such plaintifff,
15 stating the nature and amount of such indebtedness as
7 near as may be. and alleging any one or more of the fol8 lowing causes for attachment, viz:
First —That defendant is not a resident of this
10 state.
Second —That the defendant is a foreign corporation.
hird —That tin' defendant is a corporation whose
13 chief office or place of business is out of the state.
Fourth —That the defendant conceals himself, or
15 stands in defiance of an officer, so that process of law
16 cannot be served upon him, or that the defendant has for
17 more than four months been absent from the state, or
18 that for such length of time ins whereabouts have been
I!) unknown, and (hat the indebtedness mentioned in the
20 affidavit has been due during all the said period.
Fifth —That the defendant is about to remove his
22 property or effects, or a material part thereof, out of this
23 state, with intent to defraud, or hinder, or delay his
24 creditors, or some one or more of them.
Sixth —That the defendant has fraudulently conveyed
20 or transferred or assigned his property or effects, so as to
27 hinder or delay his creditors, or some one or more of
28 them.
Seventh —That the defendant has fraudulently eon
cealed or removed, or disposed of bis property or effects,
31 so as to hinder or delay Lis creditors, or some one or
32 more of them.
ighth —That the defendant is about to fraudulently
34 convey, or transfer, or assign his property or effects, so
35 as to hinder or delay his creditors, or some one or more
36 of them.
inth—That the defendant is about to fraudulently
38 conceal, or remove. or dispose of his property or effects,
39 so as to hinder or delay his creditors; or that such debtor
40 has departed, or is about to depart from this state with
41 the intention of having his effects removed from the
42 state.
Tenth—That the defendant has failed or refused to
44 pay the price or value of any article or thing delivered
45 to him, which he should have paid for upon the delivery
40 thereof.
Eleventh —That the defendant has failed or refused to
48 pay the price or value of any work or labor done or per49
formed, or for any services rendered by the plaintifff at
50 the instance of the defendant. and which should have
31 been paid at the completion of such work, or when such
52 services were fully rendered.
Twelfth—Thatthedefendant fraudulent ly contracted
54 the debt. or fraudulently incurred the liability respecting
55 which the suit is brought. or by false representation, or
5(i false pretenses, or by any fraudulent conduct. procured
57 money or property of the plaintifff. 

That no final judgment shall be rendered
2 in a cause wherein an attachment writ has been is3
sued and a levy made therennder, until the expira4 tion of thirty days after such levy has been made;
5 and any creditor of the defendant making and filing
6 an affidavit and undertaking, as hereinbefore re7
quired of the plaintifff, together with his complaint
8 setting forth his claim or demand constituting his
9 cause of action against the defendant, shall, upon ap10 plication to the court wherein such action is brought,
11 be made a party plaintifff in such action, and may
12 have like remedies against the defendant to secure
13 his claim or demand, as the law gives to the original
14 plaintifff. 

After any creditor has been made a party
2 to the action, as hereinbefore provided, a dismissal
3 by the first or any subsequent attaching creditor of
4 his cause of action, or proceedings in attachment,
5 shall not operate as a dismissal of the attachment
6 proceedings, as to any other attaching creditor; but
7 that the remaining creditors may proceed to final
8 judgment therein the same as though no such dis9 missal had been made. 

The final judgment in said action shall
2 be a several judgment, wherein each creditor named
3 as plaintifff shall have and recover of the defendant
4 the amount of his claim or demand, as found to be
5 due together with his costs; and the money realized
6 from the attachment and garnishee proceedings shall
7 under the direction of the court, after paying all
8 costs taxed and included in the said several judg9
ments, be paid to the said several judgment credi10 tors in proportion to the amount of their several
11 claims as adjusted and included in such several judg12
ments; and the surplus of any such monies, if any,
13 shall be paid to the defendant by order of the court.
14 Provided, When the property is attached while
15 the defendant is removing the same or after the same
16 has been removed from the county, and the same is
17 overtaken and returned, or while same is secreted
18 by the defendant, or put out of his hands, for the pur19
pose of defrauding his creditors, the court may al20
low the creditor or creditors through whose diligence
21 the same shall have been secured a priority over
22 other attachments or judgment creditors. 

Whenever it shall satisfactorily appear
2 to the court, that levies of writs of attachment have
3 been made upon the property of the defendant suffi4
cient to render the defendant in such suits insolvent.
5 the court or judge thereof, shall upon application,
6 order that writs of attachment may issue in suits
7 upon contracts, express or implied, not yet due, in
8 order that such attaching creditors may pro rate
9 upon the attached property and the proceeds thereof
10 under the provisions of this act; Provided, That when
11 judgment shall be rendered in snch suits, there shall
12 be a rebatement of interest, if any. 

henever the original suit in which a
2 writ of attachment shall be issued and served, shall
3 be begun in the county court of any county in this
4 stale, and the claim of any intervenor or attaching
5 creditor therein, as hereinbefore provided, shall ex6
ceed the sum of two thousand dollars, exclusive of
7 costs, it shall be the duly of such court to forthwith
8 certify such case and t ransmit all papers issued or
9 filed therein, to the district court of such couuty,
10 and thereafter the case shall proceed in the same
11 manner as if it had been originally begun in such
12 district court. In all cases in which issues shall
13 be joined upon the several complaints or affidavits in
14 attachment, separate trials shall be had unless other
15 wise ordered by the court; but in default of an issue
lfi therein, each creditor shall make proof of his claim
17 to the satisfaction of the court before judgment shall
l8 be rendered therein. 

In every case where an affidavit shall be
2 made and filed, as aforesaid, it shall be lawful for such
3 clerk to issue a writ of attachment, directed to the sheriff
4 of lhe county, or to any other county, as hereinafter
5 provided, returnable like other writs or process in this
6 act. commanding him to attach the hinds, tenements,
7 goods, chattels, rights, credits, monies and effects of said
8 debtor, of every kind, or so much thereof as will be
9 sufficient to satisfy the claim sworn to, with interest and
10 costs, in whose hands or possession the same may be
11 found.

ctions may be commenced and writs of
2 attachment issued as prescribed in this chapter, upon
.°i debts or liabilities not yet due, if the affidavit states any
4 of thecausesmentioned, except the first, second, third and
5 thirteenth subdivisions; Provided, That any judgment
6 obtained under the provisions of this section shall be
7 with a rebatement of the interest from the time such
8 judgment is rendered until the time at which said debt
0 or liability would have become due.

Before issuing the writ of attachment the
2 clerk shall require a written undertaking on the part
3 of the plaintifff, with sufficient sureties to be approved
4 by the clerk, in a sum not less than double the amount
5 claimed by the plaintifff, to the effect that if the defendant
6 recover judgment, or if the court shall finally decide that
7 the plaintifff was not entitled to an attachment, the
8 plaintifff will pay all costs that may be awarded to the
9 defendant, and all damages he may sustain by reason of
10 the wrongful suing out of the attachment, not exceeding
11 the sum specified in the undertaking. Said sureties
12 may be required by the defendant to satisfy the clerk of
13 the court that each for himself is worth the amount for
14 which he is willing to become security in the under
taking, over and above his just debts and liabilities in
1G property not by law exempt from execution in this
17 state.

The defendant
2 after the service of the writ of attachment upon him, or
3 after fie has due notice thereof as hereinafter provided,
4 his agent or attorney, at any time within the time pre5
scribed for answering, may, by affidavit, traverse and
6 put in issue the matters alleged in the affidavit upon
7 which t he attachment is based; and if the plaint ilf shall
8 substantiate either one of the causes alleged in his affi9
davit, the said attachment shall be sustained, otherwise
10 the same shall be dissolved. If the debt for which the
11 action is brought is not due and the attachment is not
12 sustained, the action shall be dismissed; but if the debt
13 is due, the action may proceed to judgment after the
14 attachment is dissolved, as in other actions where no
15 attachment is issued. The trial of the issue formed by
10 the affidavit shall be by jury, unless a jury is waived by
17 theparties. If the defendantfailtotraversethe plaintifff's
18 affidavit. the attachment shall be deemed sustained; but
19 it shall not be necessary to have an actual return of the
20 writ before resorting to service by publication or to per21 sonal service out of the state, provided the other requi22
sites of constructive service are complied with; the
23 defendant shall also be deemed to have due notice of
24 the attachment when he enters a general appearance. or
25 shall be personally or constructively served, as provided
20 by this net. 

The writ shall be directed to the sheriff of
2 any county in which the property of such defendant
3 may be, and require him to serve a copy of the writ on
4 the defendant and to attach and safely keep all the
5 property of such defendant within his county, not
6 exempt from execution, or so much thereof as may be
7 sufficient to satisfy the plaintifff's demand, the amount
8 of which shall be stated in conformity with the affidavit,
9 and alias writs may issue at any time, unless the defend10 ant deposit the amount or give him security, by the
11 undertaking of at least two sufficient sureties in an
12 amount sufficient to satisfy such demand, besides costs,
13 or in amount equal to the value of the property which
14 has been or is about to be attached, in which case the
15 sheriff shall take such undertaking. Several writs may
16 be issued at the same time to the sheriffs of different
17 counties.


The rights or shares which the defendant
2 may have in the stock of any corporation or company,
3 or which may be held by any person in trust for. or to
4 the use of the defendant. together with the interest and
5 profits 1 hereon, and all the other property in this state.
6 of such defendant, not exempt from execution or attach 7
ment, may be attached, and if judgment be recovered,
8 be sold to satisfy the judgment and execution.

When any writ of attachment shall be
2 issued against any person being the owner of any shares
3 or stock in any corporation or company, or for whom or
4 to whose use any shares or stock in any corporation or
5 company, are held by any person other than such defend6 ant, it shall be the duty of the president, cashier, secre7
tary or chief clerk of such corporation or company, upon
8 the request of the officer having such writ of attach1)
ment, to furnish a certificate under his hand, stating the
10 number of rights or shares which the defendant holds,
11 or which are held in trust for such defendant. or to his
12 use, in the stock of such corporation or company.

Any officer, upon obtaining information
2 in the manner provided in the last section, or otherwise,
8 that a defendant in any writ of attachment held by him,
4 owns or holds any rights or shares in the stock of any
5 corporation or company, or that such rights or shares are
6 owned or held by any other person in trust for, or to the
7 use of such defendant, may make a levy of such writ of
8 attachment on such rights or shares, by leaving a true
9 copy of such writ with the president. secretary, cashier,
10 or chief clerk, of such corporation or company; and if
11 there be no such officer, then with some other officer of
12 such corporation or company, with a certificate of the
13 officer making the levy, setting forth that he levies upon
11 and takes in attachment such rights or shares to satisfy
15 such attachment.


Rights or shares in the stock of any cor2
poration or company levied upon by virtue of any writ
3 of attachment, shall be held subject to the judgment
4 renrlered in the action in which such writ is issued, and
if the plaintifff recover judgment, such rights or shares
6 shall be sold in like manner as personal property is pro7
vided to be sold upon execution, to satisfy such judg8
ment.

It shall be the duty of every officer who
2 shall sell any rights or shares of stock in any corporation
3 or company, under the provisions hereof, to execute to
4 the purchaser thereof a certificate in writing, reciting
5 the sale and payment of the consideration and conveying
6 to the purchaser such rights and shares; and such officer
7 shall also leave with the president. secretary, cashier, or
8 chief clerk, or if there be none, with any other officer of
9 such corporation or company, a true copy of such certi10 ficate; and therenpon it shall be the duty of the officer,
11 clerk or other person having charge of the books of such
12 corporation or company, to make such entries in the
13 books of such company, as may be necessary to vest the
14 legal and equitable title to such rights or shares of stock
15 in the purchaser of the same.

Every purchaser of rights or shares of
2 stock in any corporation or company, at any sale thereof
3 made by any officer, upon receiving a certificate of the
4 sale thereof, as provided in the last section, shall be
5 deemed and held to be the legal and equitable owner of
6 such rights or shares of stock, and he shall be and become
7 entitled to all dividends thereon, and to the same rights
8 and privileges as a member of such corporation or com9
pany, as the defendant was theretofore entitled to, not10 withstanding such rights and shares of stock may not
11 have been transferred upon the books of such company.

The sheriff to whom the writ is directed
2 and delivered, shall execute the same without delay, and
if the undertaking mentioned in this chapter be not
,4 given by the defendant, then as follows:
irst—Real property standing upon the records of the
6 county in the name of the defendant, shall be attached
7 by tiling a copy of the writ together with a description
8 of the property attached, with the recorder of the county.
Second—Real property, or any interest therein, be
lt) longing to the defendant and held by any person, or
11 standing upon the records of the county in the name of
12 any other person (but belonging to the defendant), shall
13 be attached by leaving with such person, or his agent. a
11 copy of the writ and a notice that such real property,
15 (giving a description thereof,) and any interest therein
16 belonging to the defendant, are attached pursuant to
17 such writ, and filing a copy of such writ and notice with
18 the recorder of the county.
Third—Personal property capable of manual delivery,
20 shall be attached by taking it into custody.

It shall be the duty of the county recor2
der to file and safely keep such copy of the writ and
3 description of the property, subject to the inspection of
4 all persons, and record the same in a book to be kept
5 for that purpose, and to index the same in the records,
6 and such recorder shall receive a fee of twenty-five cents
7 for such filing and safe keeping of said lists, and the
8 further fee for recording as is prescribed by law to be
9 paid by the plaintifff in the action, and taxed and
10 allowed to him as other costs and disbursements in the
11 action.

In all cases of attachment any person
2 other than the defendant claiming any of the property
3 attached or any lien thereon, or interest therein, may
4 intervene without giving bail, but the property attached
5 shall not thereby be replevied or released. Such interfi
vention shall be by verified petition stating the right or
7 interest which the intervener claims in or to such
8 property, and the same may be filed in said cause at any
9 time before the trial of the cause upon its merits, and as
10 soon as notice of the intervention shall be given to the
11 interested parties to the action or their attorneys with
12 reasonable opportunity to them to answer such petition,
13 the intervention shall be tried as follows: If the inter14 venor claim the absolute title or ownership to the prop15
erty either party shall be entitled to trial by jury, but if
16 the claim be by mortgage or some interest less than full
17 title or ownership the trial shall be by the court, subject
18 to its power to direct an issue to a jury. In case the
19 verdict or finding shall be for the intervenor the dam20
ages which he has suffered by reason of the attachment
21 of the property may be assessed in such verdict or find22 ings. and the intervenor shall recover the same, together
23 with his costs, of the plaintifff in the attachment. and
24 the court shall render such judgment in reference to the
attached property as will secure the right of the inter26 venor thereto or therein, according to such verdict or
27 finding, and in the case the verdict or finding shall be
28 for the plaintiff, he shall recover costs against such inter29
venor; and the court may require the intervenor to give
30 security for costs for like causes and in like manner as
31 plaintifffs may be required to give security for costs in
32 civil actions.


If any of the property attached be in
2 dangerof serious and immediate decay or waste,orwhere
3 the keeping of it will be attended with such expense as
4 greatly to diminish the proceeds to be realized if it be
5 kept until the final determination of the action, the
6 sheriff, or constable, may upon the order of the court or
7 judge, sell the same in the same manner and upon like
8 notice as personal property is sold on execution, unless
9 the court or judge shall by order prescribe a shorter
10 time. The proceeds of every such sale and all other
11 property attached by him, shall be retained by him to
12 answer any judgment that may be recovered in the action
13 in which the attachment issued.

If judgment be recovered by the plaintifff,
2 the sheriff shall satisfy the same out of the property
3 attached by him, which has not been delivered to the
4 defendant or claimant as hereintofore provided, or sub5
ject to execution on another judgment recovered previous
0 (o the issuing of the attachment, if it be sufficient for
7 that purpose.
8 First—By paying to the plaintifff the proceeds of all
!( sales of perishable property sold by him, or any debts or
10 credits collected by him, or so much as shall be necessary
11 to satisfy the judgment.
12 Second —If any balance remain due and an execution
13 shall have been issued on the judgment, he shall sell,
14 under the execution, so much of the property, real or
15 personal, as may be necessary to satisfy the balance, if
1G enough for that purpose remain in his hands. Notices
17 of the sales shall be given, and the sales conducted as in
18 other cases of sales on execution.

If after selling all the property attached
2 by him remaining in his hands, and applying the pro3 ceeds, together with the proceeds of any debts or credits
4 collected by him, deducting his fees, to the payment of
5 the judgment, and any balance shall remain due, the
6 sheriff shall, if there be a general, personal judgment
7 against the defendant, proceed to collect such balance as
8 upon an execution in other cases. Whenever the judg9
ment shall have been paid, the sheriff, upon reasonable
10 demand, shall deliver over to the defendant the attached
11 property remaining in his hands, and any proceeds of
12 the property attached unapplied on the judgment.

If tbe defendant recover judgment against
2 the plaintifff, any undertaking received in the action, all
3 the proceeds of sales and money collected by the sheriff,
4 and all the property attached remaining in the sheriff's
5 hands, shall be delivered to the defendant or his agent.
6 the order of attachment shall be discharged and the
7 property released therefrom.

The defendant may at any time release
2 any property in the hands of the sheriff by virtue of any
writ of attachment, by executing an undertaking as pro4 vided for in the next section, and all the proceeds of
5 sales and money collected by the sheriff, and all the
6 property attached remaining in his hands, shall be re7
leased from the attachment and delivered to the defend8
ant upon the justification of the sureties in the under9 taking.


Before releasing such attached property,
2 as aforesaid, to the defendant, the sheriff shall require
3 an undertaking executed by the defendant to the plain4 tiff, and at least two sureties, residents and freeholders,
5 or householders in this state, to the effect that in case
G the plaintifff recover judgment in the action, and the
7 attachment is not dissolved, defendant will, on demand,
8 re-deliver such attached property so released, to the
9 proper officer, to be applied to the payment of the judg10 ment, and that in default thereof the defendant and
11 sureties will pay to the plaintifff the full value of the
12 property so released. The sheriff may fix the sum for
13 which the undertaking shall be executed, and, if neces14 sary in fixing such sum to know the value of the prop15
erty released, the same may be appraised by three disin16 terested persons, to be appointed by the sheriff ; and if any
17 sheriff shall release any property held by him under or
18 by virtue of any writ of attachment, without first taking
19 such bond as herein required, or shall take an insuffi20
cient bond, he and his sureties shall be liable for the
21 value of such property so released.


The defendant may also, at any time
2 before the time for answering expires, apply on motion,
3 upon reasonable notice to the plaintifff to the court in
4 which the action is brought, or to the judge thereof, that
5 the attachment be discharged on the ground that the
6 writ was improperly issued for any reasons appearing
7 upon the face of the papers and proceedings in the action.
8 If on such application it shall satisfactorily appear that
9 the writ of attachment was improperly issued, it shall
10 be discharged.

The sheriff shall return the writ of attaeh2
ment within twenty days after its receipt. with a certifl3
cate of his proceedings endorsed thereon, or attached
thereto, making a full inventory of the property attached
5 as a part of his return upon the writ.


If at any time pending a suit, where
2 attachment has been issued in aid thereof, as provided
3 in this chapter, it shall appear to the court or judge
4 thereof, in which the suit is pending, that the bond or
5 undertaking given is insufficient, or that any security
6 thereon has died, or has removed from this state, or has
7 become, or is likely to become insolvent, said court, or
8 the judge thereof, in vacation, shall order another
9 bond or undertaking, or such other and further security
10 to be given as shall seem proper, ten days previous notice
11 in writing having been given to the plaintifff, or any one
12 of the plaintifffs, his or their agent or attorney, of the
13 application for such order, and if the plaintifff or plain14
tiffs, his or their agent, or attorney, or other person for
15 him or them, shall fail to comply with such order within
16 twenty days after the same shall be made. all or any
17 writs of attachment issued therein shall be quashed.
18 The additional undertaking herein shall be the same,
19 and executed in the same manner as the original,
20 required in this chapter, and the sureties therein shall be
21 jointly and severally liable with those in the original
22 undertaking.


If the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, shall
2 make and file with the clerk an affidavit in the action,
3 stating that it is necessary to execute the writ of attach4 ment on Sunday, or on a legal holiday, to secure prop5
erty sufficient to secure the judgment to be obtained, the
6 clerk shall endorse on the writ an order to the officer
7 directing the writ to be executed on such day.

No writ of attachment shall be quashed
2 nor any garnishee discharged, nor any undertaking
3 given by any person or persons under proceedings by
4 attachment be rendered invalid, nor any rule entered
5 against a sheriff, discharged on account of any inform(i ality or insufficiency of the original affidavit, or of the
7 original undertaking given for the attachment, if the
8 plaintifff or the plaintifffs, or some credible person, or
his or their agent, or attorney for him or them, shall file
10 a sufficient affidavit in the cause; or if the plaintifff or
11 plaintifffs or some credible person, or his or their agent
12 or attorney for him or them, shall make with such
13 security as is required by this act, an undertaking to be
14 approved by the court in which said suit may be pend15
ing, and when a writ of attachment shall be held to be
16 defective, the same shall be allowed by the court, to be
17 amended in such time and manner as it may direct, and
18 thenceforth the suit shall proceed as if such defective
19 proceedings had been originally sufficient. And if on
20 the trial of the issues formed by the traversing of the
21 allegations in the affidavits for attachment, it shall
22 appear that the evidence introduced by the plaintifff does
23 not prove the cause or causes of attachment alleged in
24 the affidavit, but the evidence does tend to prove other
25 cause of attachment in this act, then the plaintifff may
26 on motion, showing good cause therefore, be allowed to
27 amend his affidavit to correspond to the proof, the same
28 as pleadings by this act are allowed to be amended in
29 cases of variances.


At the time of issuing a writ of attachment
2 in an action, or at any time thereafter, the plaintifff may
3 have a writ of garnishment issue, and therenpon attach
4 the credits, effects, debts, choses in action, and other
5 personal property of the defendant in the possession or
6 under the control of any third person, as garnishee for
7 the security of any judgment. the plaintifff may recover
8 in such action against the defendant.

Whenever in any action pending in any
2 court of record, a writ of attachment has been issued
3 and delivered to the proper officer, and the officer after
4 diligent search shall not be able to find property of the
5 defendant sufficient to satisfy the claim of plaintifff, the
6 officer shall upon the request of plaintifff, his .agent or
7 attorney, summon such person or persons as the plaintifff
8 may direct as garnishees to appear before the court
1) wherein such action is pending.


The writ of garnishment shall be issued
2 by the officer to whom the writ of attachment is
3 delivered, and may be in substance as follows: Appro4
priately filling the several blanks, viz:—
5 STATE OF COLORADO,
6 County of
7 In the Court.
8
9
10~
Plaintiff.
vs.
Defendant.
11 The People of the State of Colorado:
12 To Garnishee.
13 You are hereby notified that you are attached as gam14 ishee in the above entitled action, and you are com15
manded not to pay any debt due or to become due from
16 yourself to the said defendants,
17 or either of them, and that you must retain possession
18 and control of all personal property, effects, choses in
19 action of said defendants,
20 or either of them, in order that the same may be dealt
21 with according to law, you are required to answer the
22 interrogatories attached hereto within twenty days from
23 the date of the service of this writ upon you, if you are
24 served in the county in which said action is brought.
25 otherwise within forty days from the date of such ser26
vice. In case of your failure within the time aforesaid,
27 the plaintifff may apply to the court for relief against you
28 ex parte.
29 Given under my hand this day of
30 188. . .

The names of as many individuals, cor2 po rations or other persons as are sought to be charged as
3 garnishees, may be inserted in the same or different writs
4 of garnishment; and the writ shall be served and re5
turned by the officer issuing the same, in the same man6
ner as a summons in the action ; and in like manner alias
7 and pluries writs may be issued, served and returned.


That all municipal corporations shall be subject to gar2
nishment upon writs of attachment and execution in the
3 same manner that private corporations and persons, are
4 now, or may hereafter be subject to garnishment under
5 such writs. 


It shall not be necessary for the sheriff to
2 return the writ of attachment before serving the writ
3 of garnishment, but the return of the latter writ, show4
ing due service on the person therein named as garni
shee shall give the court jurisdiction to proceed against
6 such garnishee as hereinafter provided.


The garnishee shall answer the interrog2
atories in writing, upon oath or affirmation; and it is
3 hereby made the duty of such officer serving the writ of
4 garnishment to administer such oath or affirmation and
5 to take and return such answer with the writ. or the
G garnishee may answer in like manner before any one
7 authorized to administer oaths and affirmations.
8 and in the latter case it shall be the duty of the garni!)
shee to file his answer, or cause the same to be filed, in
10 the proper court within the time required by the writ,
11 or he shall be deemed in default. The interrogatories
12 may be in substance as follows:
First—Are you in any manner indebted to the defend14 ants, or either of them, either in property or money,
15 and is the same now due? If not due when is the same
1(i to become due? State fully all particulars.
17 Answer.
Second—Have youin yourpossession,inyour charge,
19 or under your control, any property, effects, goods, chat20
tels, rights, credits, or choses in action of said defend21
ants, or either of thein, or in which he is interested? If
22 so, state what is the value of the same, and state fully all
23 particulars.
24 Answer.
Third—Do you know of any debts owing to the said
26 defendant. whether due or not due, or any property,
27 effects, goods, chattels, rights, credits, or choses in action.
belonging to him, or in which he is interested, and now
29 in the possession or under the control of others? If so,
30 state the particulars.
31 Answer.
, (insert the name of garnishee,) do solemnly swear
34 (or affirm) that the answer to the foregoing interrogato35
ries by me subscribed, are true, so help me God.
30 (Signature of garnishee.)
37 Subscribed and sworn to before me this day
38 of 188. 
The plaintifff may in his discretion, add other perti
41 nent interrogatories.


If the answer of the garnishee shows that
he has personal property of any kind in his possession,
3 or under his control, belonging to the defendant, the
4 courtshall enter judgment that the garnishee deliver the
5 same to the sheriff, and if the plaintifff recover judgment
6 against the defendant in the action, such property, or so
7 much thereof as may be necessary, shall be sold as upon
8 execution, and the proceeds applied toward the satisfac9
tion of such judgment, together with the costs of the
10 action and proceedings, and if there be a surplus of such
11 property, or of the proceeds thereof, it shall be restored
12 to the defendant. If the answer shows that the garni13 shee is indebted to the defendant, then, if the plaintifff
14 recover judgment against the defendant in the action,
15 thecourtshallalso enter judgment in favor of the defend16 ant for the use of the plaintifff against the garnishee for
17 the amount of the indebtedness admitted in the answer;
18 Provided, The judgment against the garnishee shall not
19 befora greater sum than is necessary to satisfy the judg20
ment of the plaintifff against the defendant, together
21 with costs as aforesaid; and in no case shall the garni22
shee be chargeable with costs unless his answer shall be
23 successfully controverted as hereinafter provided.


In all cases the garnishee, upon making
2 answer, may deliver to the officer serving the writ, the
3 property belonging to the defendant, together with the
4 money due to the defendant, as shown by the answer,
5 and the officer shall make returu of such property and
6 money with the writ to the court, to be dealt with as
7 provided in the foregoing section; and therenpon the
garnishee shall be relieved from further liability in the
9 proceedings, unless his answer shall be sucessfully con10
troverted as hereinafter provided.


If the garnishee, having been duly served
2 with the writ of garnishment and interrogatories, refuse
3 orfail to answer interrogatories within the term required,
4 the plaintifff may enter a default against him and pro5
ceed before the court to prove the liability of the gar6
nishee, according to the provisions of this chapter, (and
7 in such case the garnishee may be compelled to give
8 testimony as a witness as in other cases,) and upon a ver9
dict or finding in that behalf, the plaintifff may have
10 judgment entered the same as if the garnishee had
11 answered according to such verdict or finding; and if the
12 verdict or finding charge the garnishee with any liability
13 the plaintifff may recover the costs of the proceedings
14 against him, otherwise the garnishee shall be discharged
15 without costs.


If the garnishee answer, the plaintifff may
2 within ten days after the expiration of the time allowed
3 for the filing of such answer, reply to the whole or any
4 part thereof by an affidavit traversing the same; the
plaintifff, may also in his reply allege any matters which
6 would charge the garnishee with liability according to
7 the provisions of this chapter, and such affidavit may be
8 upon information and belief. If the plaintifff fail to
9 reply within the time aforesaid, he shall be deemed to
10 have accepted the answer of the garnishee as true, and
11 judgment may be entered accordingly.


New matter in the affidavit replying to
2 the answer of the garnishee, shall be taken as denied or
3 avoided without any rejoinder being filed, and the
4 matter thus at issue without further pleadings shall be
5 tried in the same manner as other issues of like nature,
6 and upon the verdict or finding thereon, judgment shall
be entered the same as if the garnishee had answered
8 according to such verdict or finding. Provided, If the
9 verdict or finding be as favorable to the garnishee as his
10 answer, he shall recover costs of the proceeding against
11 the plaintifff, otherwise the plaintifff may recover costs
12 against the garnishee.


If any person other than the garnishee or
2 the parties to the action, shall at any time before the
3 garnishment proceedings are determined, present to the
4 court a verified petition claiming any of the credits,
5 effects, debts, choses in action or other personal property
6 or any interest therein, with which any garnishee is
7 sought to be charged, under the provisions of this
8 chapter, such petitioner shall be allowed to intervene
9 therefore and have his claim tried and determined as in
10 other cases of intervention.


Every garnishee shall be allowed to retain
2 or deduct out of the property, effects or credits of the
3 defendant in his hands, all demands against the plaintifff
4 and all demands against the defendant of which he
5 could have availed himself if he had not been sum6 moned as garnishee, whether the same are at the time
7 due or not, and whether, by way of set-off on a trial, or by
8 the set-off of judgments or executions between himself
9 and the plaintifff and defendant, severally, and he shall be
10 liable for the balance, only after all mutual demands
11 between himself and plaintifff and defendant are adjusted,
12 not including unliquidated damages for wrongs and
13 injuries; Provided. That the verdict or finding as well as
14 therecordofthe judgment shall show in all cases against
15 which party, and the amount thereof, any set-off shall
16 be allowed, if any shall be allowed


No person shall be liable as garnishee. by
2 reason of having drawn, accepted, made or endorsed any
3 negotiable instrument, when the same is not due, in the
4 hands of the defendant at the time of service of the writ
o of garnishment.


The judgment against a garnishee shall
2 acquit him from all demands by the defendant for all
3 goods, effects and credits paid, delivered or accounted
4 for by the garnishee by force of such judgment.


If the person summoned as garnishee is
2 discharged, the judgment shall be no bar to an action
3 brought against him, by the defendant for the same
4 demand.


When the judgment is rendered against
2 any garnishee, and it shall appear that the debt from
3 him to the defendant is not yet due. execution shall not
4 issue until the debt shall have become due.


When any personal property, choses in
action, or effects of the defendant in the hands of a gar3
nishee are mortgaged or pledged, or in any way liable
4 for the payment of a debt to him, the plaintifff may, under
5 an order of the court for that purpose, pay or tender the
6 amount due to the garnishee, and therenpon the garni7
shee shall deliver the personal property, choses in action,
8 and effects to the sheriff, as in other cases.


If the personal property, or effects, are
2 held for any purpose other than to secure the payment
3 of money, and if tlie contract, condition or other thing
4 to be done or performed, is such as can be performed by
5 the plaintifff without damage to the other parties, the
6 court may make an order for the performance thereof by
7 him, and upon such performance, or a tender of perform8 ance, the garnishee shall deliver the personal property
9 and effects to the sheriff, as in other cases.


\11 personal property, choses in action,
2 and effects received by the sheriff under either of the two
3 preceding sections, shall be disposed of in the same man4 ner as if they had been delivered by the garnishee with5
out condition, except that the plaintifff shall, out of the
6 proceeds thereof, be first repaid the amount paid by him
7 to the garnishee for the redemption of the same, or shall
8 be indemnified for any other act or thing, by him done
9 or performed, pursuant to the order of the court for the
10 redemption of the same.


If any garnishee refuses or neglects to
2 deliver any personal property, choses in action or effects
3 in his hands, when thereto lawfully required by the
4 court, he shall be liable to be attached or punished for
5 contempt.


The court may order the costs of the pro2
ceedings in any garnishment be paid by the plaintifff, or
3 out of the effects or credits garnisheed, or by the garni4
shee, or may apportion the same as shall appear to be just
5 and equitable. The garnishee shall be entitled to fees and
6 mileage as a witness, where he does not improperly resist
7 or make casts.


Any
2 person having a judgment remaining unsatisfied in any
3 court of record in the state, upon which execution has
4 been issued and delivered, and which remains in the
5 hands of the proper officer uncollected aud unsatisfied,
6 may have a writ of garnishment issued, and therenpon
7 attach the credits, effects, debts, choses in action, and
8 other personal property of the judgment debtor in the
9 possession or under the control of any third person as
10 garnishee. for the security of such judgment. and all
11 the rights, remedies and proceedings under this chap12
ter are hereby made specially available and applicable
13 for the relief and security of such judgment creditor,
14 the same as for a plaintifff in attachment, and the same
15 are also made specially available and applicable for the
protection and security of the judgment debtor and the
17 garnishee, the same as for the defendant and garnishee
18 in attachment; and the forms of all affidavits, interrog1U atories, writs, answers, oaths, orders, trials, judgments
20 and other process and proceedings heretofore provided
21 for cases of garnishment before judgment. with appro22 priate variations, shall apply to cases of garnishment
23 after judgment; and all courts shall be liberal in allow24
ing amendments, and in construing this chapter so as to
25 promote the objects thereof. 


Motions for new trial may be made in the
2. same time and manner, and shall be allowed for the same
3 grounds in garnishment proceedings as in other civil
4 trials; and appeals and writs of error may be taken and
5 prosecuted from any final judgment or order in such pro6
ceedings as in the other civil cases.


An injunction is generally an order requir2
ing a person to refrain from doing a particular act, but
3 where simply refraining from doing a particular act will
4 not effectuate the relief to which the plaintifff is
5 entitled, the injunction may be made mandatory, and
6 require such acts to be done as will give the plaintifff the
7 full protection which he may be entitled to. The dis8
trict court, in term time, and any judge thereof in vaca9
tion, shall have power to grant and to dissolve writs of
10 injunction, except as hereinafter limited. In case of a
11 vacancyin the office of any district judge, or in case of his
12 absence from his district, or in case such judge has an
13 interest in the subject matter of litigation, or if from
14 sickness, or any other cause. he is unable to discharge
15 the duties of his office, then the district judge of any
16 other district may grant and dissolve such writs, or upon
17 the happening of either of the events above enumerated,
18 or in case of the absence of the district judge from any
county of his district, then the county judge of such
20 county, in causes of action arising therein, may grant
21 such writs which shall issue out of the district court the
22 same as though granted by the court or district judge,
23 except that the county judge shall not have power to
24 grant any such writ against the working of any mining
25 claims.


An injunction may be granted in the fol2
lowing cases:
First—Whenitshallappearby the complaint that the
4 plaintifff is entitled to the relief demanded, and such
5 relief, or some part thereof, consists in restraining the
6 commission or continuance of the act complained of,
7 during the pendency of the litigation, or for a limited
8 period, or perpetually.
Second—When it shall appear by the complaint or
10 affidavit that the commission or continuance of some act
11 would produce great or irreparable injury during the
12 litigation.
Third—When it shall appear at anytime in any char14 acter of an action during the litigation by affidavit or
15 otherwise, that the defendant is doing or threatens, or is
11i about to do, some act, or is procuring, or suffering to be
17 done, some act in violation of the plaintifff's rights,
18 respecting the subject matter of the action, and tending
19 torenderthejudgmentineffectual,and in such other cases
20 as courts of equity have heretofore granted relief by
21 injunction, or which may be specially provided for in
22 this act.


The injunction may be granted bj the
2 courts or judges aforesaid, at the time of filing the cora3 plaint and issuing the summons, or it may be granted
by such courts or judges at any time afterwards, before
5 judgment, or pending proceedings in the supreme court
6 on appeal or writ of error, upon affidavits. The com7
plaint in the one case, and the affidavits in the other,
8 shall show that satisfactory grounds exist therefore. The
9 complaint shall be verified by the oath of the plaintifff, or
10 some one in his behalf. Answers filed under this chap11 ter shall also be verified, and the form of such verifica12
tions of complaint and answers shall be as provided in
13 this act for other cases.


When any injunction shall be granted to
2 stay a suit or judgment at law, the proceedings shall be
3 had in the county where the judgment was obtained
4 or the suit is pending, or the writ of summons may be
sent in the first instance into any other county in this
6 state, where the defendant resides. No writ of injunc7
tion shall be granted to stay proceedings, under a judg8 ment obtained before a justice of the peace, for a sum
9 not exceeding twenty dollars exclusive of costs.

No injunction shall be granted to stay
2 judgment at law for a greater sum than the complainant
3 shall show himself equitably not bound to pay, and so
4 much as shall be sufficient to cover costs. Every in5 junction, when granted, shall operate as a release of all
6 errors in the proceedings at law that are prayed to be
7 enjoined. No injunction shall be issued in such cases,
unless the complainant, or some person in his, her or
9 their behalf, shall have previously executed an under10
taking, with sufficient surety to the defendant, approved
11 by the court, district, or county judge, or the clerk where
12 the court or judge, granting such injunction, so orders,
13 and filed with the clerk, in double the sum directed to
14 be enjoined, conditioned for the payment of all money
15 and costs due or to be due, to the plaintifff in the action
16 of law, and also all such costs and damages as shall be
17 awarded against the complainant in case the injunction
18 shall be dissolved. If the injunction be dissolved in
19 whole or in part, the complainant shall pay, exclusive of
20 legal interest and costs, such damages as the court shall
21 award, not exceeding ten per centum on such part as may
22 be released from the injunction; and the clerk shall issue
23 execution for the same when he issues on such judgment.


In caBe of granting a writ of injunction
2 other than those to stay a suit or judgment, the court or
3 judge granting the writ, shall make an order fixing the
4 amount of the undertaking, which shall be in a reasona5 ble sum; and no injunction shall be issued until the
6 complainant or complainants, or some one for him, her
7 or them, shall have previously executed such undertak8
ing with sufficient surety, payable to the defendant or
9 defendants; approved by the court or judge granting the
10 writ, or the clerk of the court out of which the writ is
11 to issue when the order so directs, and filed with the
12 clerk; which undertaking shall be conditioned to pay
13 all such costs and damages as shall be awarded against
14 the complainant or complainants, in case the injunction
15 shall be modified or dissolved, in whole or in part.


Whenever application shall be made for a
2 writ of an injunction, the party intending to make such
3 application, except as hereinafter provided, shall give
4 notice to the opposite party of the time and place of
5 making such application, prior to making the same;
6 Provided, That if such application shall be made to the
7 court in term time, in a cause pending in such court,
8 in which the defendant or defendants shall have been
served with process ten days prior to' the term at "which
10 such application shall be made, or if complainant shall
11 file an affidavit ' showing that irreparable mischief or
12 injury will result to him, if notice be given, or that the
13 case is too urgent to admit of the delay incident to giving
14 notice, or where it appears from the bill of complaint
15 that the defendant,, or defendants, may commit the
16 acts, concerning which injunctive relief is sought, before
17 the motion can be heard, no such notice shall be required,
18 but the court or judge shall proceed to hear the applica19
tion ex parte; And, provided further, That any writ or
20 injunction issued against the working and mining of a
21 lode, or mining claim, without notice to the opposite
22 party, shall be void. The notice to be given shall be in
23 proportion to the urgency of the case. If the party
24 against whom the writ is to run, desires further time to
25 prepare his defense, the court, or judge, may grant such
26 time as may seem proper, not exceeding, in any case, five
27 days, and may, in the meantime, issue a temporary
28 injunction until the determination of said application;
29 and the court, or judge, may require complainant or com30
plainants to give an undertaking during the existence
31 of such temporary injunction, conditioned as required
32 by this act. No motion to dissolve an injunction shall
33 be heard in vacation when granted upon mining claims
34 after answer filed.

If any person against whom a writ of
2 injunction, or temporary injunction, shall be issued,
3 shall, after the service thereof, be guilty of disobe4
dience to and breach of the injunction, or tempo5
rary injunction, it shall be lawful for the judge grant6 ing the same, or for the judge of the district in
7 which the writ or order issued, or if the same were
8 granted in open court, then for any district judge in
9 vacation, to issue an attachment against said person or
10 persons for a contempt. Upon his or their being brought
11 before the said judge, unless he or they shall disprove or
12 purge the said contempt, the said judge may, in his
13 discretion, commit him or them to jail until the sitting
14 of the court in which the said injunction is pending, or
15 to take bail for his appearance at the said court at the
16 next term thereof, to answer for the said contempt, and
17 to abide the order of court thereon.

In all cases ia which injunction shall be
2 issued ex parte, the defendants may, at any time after
3 filing a demurrer or answer to the complaint, move the
4 court or judge thereof, upon five days notice to the
5 opposite party, to dissolve or modify the injunction.

Upon the hearing of an application to
2 grant an injunction on notice, where the defendant files
3 his answer before the hearing, or on motion of the
4 defendant to dissolve an injunction on filing an answer,
5 either party may examine witnesses orally before the
6 court or judge, and the application for an injunction or
7 the motion to dissolve an injunction, may be supported
8 or opposed by affidavits as prescribed in the next
9 section.

The party in his notice of application for
2 an injunction or in his notice of motion to dissolve,
3 shall state whether he proposes to rest his application on
4 the complaint, answer or demurrer, or to introduce
5 affidavits in support of his application, or to introduce oral
6 testimony; and the hearing shall be confined to the char7
acter of testimony stated in such notice, except as herein
8 mentioned; but if the party on whom notice is served
9 desires to introduce different evidence from that pro
posed in such notice, he may serve notice on the oppo11
site party stating what evidence he proposes to introduce
12 in opposing the application or motion, and that shall
13 entitle him to introduce the character of testimony
14 stated in his notice, and entitle the adverse party to
15 oppose it with the same character of evidence. And if
16 oral testimony is to be introduced, it shall be the duty
17 of the court or judge before whom application for an
18 injunction or a motion to dissolve, as prescribed in this
19 section and the next, is made to hear the testimony of
20 witnesses and other competent evidence as speedily as
21 practicable and without unnecesary delay, to decide
22 whether or not injuuction shall issue or be continued.

In all cases in which writs of injunction
2 may be issued without notice, defendant or defendants
3 may at any time after filing a demurrer or answer to
4 the complaint, or whether in term time or in vacation,
5 move the court, or if application shall be made in
6 vacation, the judge thereof, to dissolve the injunction.
7 If the defendant or defendants shall have filed an answer
8 to the complaint, it shall be lawful for the parties
9 respectively, upon the hearing of such motion, to intro10
duce testimony in support of the complaint or answer,
11 and the court or judge shall decide such motion upon
12 the weight of testimony without being bound to regard
13 the answer as absolutely true. If, at or before the time
14 designated for the hearing of such motion, either party
15 or some credible person for him, shall make and file in
16 the court an affidavit showing that such party hath a
17 witness or witnesses by whom he can disprove the com18 plaint or answer (as the case may be), or some material
19 part thereof, giving the name or names of such witness
20 or witnesses, his or their place of abode, and the partic21
ular facts which the party will prove by him or them,
22 and that such party has had no opportunity to procure
23 the testimony of such witness since the coming in of the
24 answer. The judge or the court. if satisfied that the testi25 mony of such witnesses will be material upon the hearing
26 of such motion, shall grant a continuance of the hear27
ing for such reasonable time as may be necessary to
28 enable the party to procure the testimony of such
29 witnesses. Affidavits filed with the complaint or answer
and the deposition of witriesses in writing, taken arid
31 certified as in other cases in chancery proceedings, may
32 be heard, and shall be considered by the court or judge
33 upon the hearing of such motion, and depositions taken
34 for the purpose of being read at such hearing, may be
35 read on final hearing of the cause in which they have
36 been taken; Provided, That in any cause where any
37 injunction shall have been awarded after notice, no
38 motion for the dissolution of such injunction shall be
39 heard or made in vacation.

The order of injunction shall be addressed
2 to the party enjoined, and shall be issued by the clerk
3 in accordance with the direction of the court or judge.
4 The order of injunction may be served in the same
5 manner, and by any person or officer authorized to serve
6 a summons. And an order of injunction shall bind the
7 party from the time of such service, or from the time
8 he has actual notice that it is ordered by the judge or
9 court.

In all cases in which an application to
2 dissolve an injunction shall be made to the judge of any
3 district court in vacation, as provided in this act, it shall
4 be lawful for such judge to continue such injunction, or
5 to dissolve the same, in the same manner, and with like
6 effect as if application was made to the court in term
7 time.


On granting an injunction, the court or
2 judge, shall require, except where a state or a county in
3 a state, or a municipal corporation is a party, a written
4 undertaking on the part of the party in whose favor an
5 injunction is granted, with one or more sufficient sure6
ties, to the effect that the plaintifff will pay to the party
7 enjoined all damages, not exceeding an amount to be
8 specified, as such party may sustain by reason of the
9 injunction, if the court finally decides that the party in
10 whose favor the injunction was issued was not entitled
11 thereto. A party enjoined may, at any time before judg12 ment, upon reasonable notice to the party who has
13 obtained the injunction, move the court or judge for
14 additional security. And if it appear that the surety
15 has removed from the state, and that the security is
16 thereby impaired, or is otherwise insufficient, the court
17 may vacate the injunction, unless in a reasonable time
18 sufficient surety is given.


Where the hearing upon an injunction is
2 in a county other than that of the court from which the
writ is prayed, the complaint shall be presented to the
4 judge for filing at or before hearing, unless previously
5 filed in the office of the clerk.

The defendant may, at any time during
2 the pendency of a suit against him, by setting forth in
3 his answer, subject matter in the nature of a cross-com4
plaint, which shows that he is entitled to an injunction
5 against the plaintifff, or by filing affidavits showing that
6 he is entitled to such relief, apply for and obtain an
7 injunction, in the same manner as prescribed in this
8 chapter for the plaintifff to obtain an injunction.

The several district courts of the state,
2 or any judge thereof, shall have, in addition to the
3 power already possessed, power to issue writs of injunc4
tion, for affirmative relief, having the force and effect of
5 a writ of restitution, restoring any person or persons
6 to the possession of any mining property or premises
7 from which he or they may have been ousted by fraud,
8 force or violence, or from which he or they are kept out
9 of possession by threats, or by words or actions which
10 have a natural tendency to excite fear or apprehension
11 of danger, or whenever such possession was taken from
12 him or them by entry of the adverse party on Sunday
13 or legal holiday, or while the party in possession was
14 temporarily absent therefrom ; the granting of such writ
15 to extend only to the right of possession under the facts
16 of the case in respect to the manner in which the posses17
sion was obtained, leaving the parties to their legal
18 rights on all other questions as though no such writ had
19 been issued; Provided, That no such writ shall issue
20 except upon notice in writing to the adverse party, of at
21 least five days, of the time and place of making such
22 application, if made in vacation, and if made in term
time, not before defendant or defendants have been duly
24 served with process, and required to appear and answer
25 by virtue of such service. and defendant may resist such
26 application upon affidavits alone. And if the defendant
27 or defendants shall file an answer to the complaint upon
28 which such application is founded, denying under oath
29 the material averments in said complaint contained, the
30 said court, or judgethereof,shall hearevidence in support
31 of said complaint or answer, or may cause the said appli32 cation to be referred to a referee. to take such proofs in
33 support of said complaint and answer, and shall direct
34 the said referee to report the proofs to the said court or
35 judge within a reasonable time, allowing to the com36
plainant and defendant a reasonable time in which to
37 take proofs; and the time so allowed by said court or
38 judgeforthepurposeof taking testimony, shall be equally
39 divided between said complainant and defendant; and it
40 shall be the duty of the complainant or complainants to
41 take his or her, or their testimony first, and the defendant
42 or defendants shall proceed to take his, her or their proof
43 within the last half of saidtime allowed, and the said court
44 orjudgeshalladjournthehearingof said application until
45 some day within reasonable time after the time of taking
46 and completing of said proofs, and at such time, upon the
47 hearing of said referee's report, shall grant or refuse
48 said writ, as the pleadings and evidence in said cause or
49 proceedings may warrant or require; And, provided fur50
ther, That no such writ shall issue in favor of any per51
son or persons, to restore to such person or persons,
52 possession of any mining property, if the said person or
53 persons shall have obtained or procured possession of
54 said property by violence or by fraud, or by taking pos55
session of the same while the adverse party in possession
56 was temporarily absent therefrom; And, provided fur57 ther, That appeal, as in other cases, shall be allowed
58 from any final order or decree granting an injunction
59 under the provisions of this section ; but such appeal shall
60 not have the effect to suspend the operation of said writ
61 after an order or decree is made by the court or judge
62 granting the same, nor to continue one in force after an
63 order or decree is made dissolving any injunction pend64 ing the appeal. When application is made for such an
65 injunction for affirmative relief, as contemplated in this
66 section,thecourtor judge shall, immediately on the filing
67 of the complaint. allow a temporary injunction, as pro
vided for in this act, upon the giving of the required
69 undertaking.

No writ of injunction for affirmative
2 relief, having the force and effect of a writ of restitution,
3 shall be valid or have any force whatever, if issued
4 without notice and without complying with the pro5 visions and conditions of the preceding section.

That in suing on any undertaking pro2
vided for in this act, it shall not be necessary to bring
3 suit in the first instance against the principal on such
4 undertaking to ascertain the amount of damages suso tained or awarded by the court, but the principal and
6 surety may be sued together, and at the trial damages
7 may be assessed and awarded against principal and
8 surety in the action.

When it is admitted by the pleadings or
2 examination of a party that he has in his possession or
3 under his control any money or other thing capable
4 of delivery, which being the subject of litigation, is
5 held by him as trustee for another party or which
6 belongs or is due to another party, the court may order
7 the same, upon motion, to be deposited in court or
8 delivered to such party, upon such conditions as may be
9 just, subject to the further direction of the court.

A receiver may be appointed by the court
2 in which the action is pending, or by a judge thereof,
3 or, pending proceedings in the supreme court upon
4 appeal or writ of error, by the court from whose final
5 judgment such appellant proceedings are prosecuted, or
6 by the judge of such court: First, before judgment,
7 provisionally, on application of either party, when he
8 establishes a prima facie right to the property, or to an
9 interest in the property, which is the subject of the
10 action, and which is in possession of an adverse party,
11 and the property, or its rents and profits, are in danger
12 of being lost. or materially injured or impaired. Second,
13 after judgment to dispose of the property according to
14 the judgment. or to preserve it during the pending of
15 an appeal; and third, in such other cases as are in
16 accordance with the practice of courts of equity juris
17 diction.

The application for the appointment of a
2 receiver shall be made by filing a petition at any time in
3 the action in which a receiver is desired, setting forth
4 the facts upon which the application is based, which
5 petition shall be verified, and the party opposing the
6 appointment of a receiver shall do so by filing an answer
7 to the petition also verified; and the court or judge may
8 hear evidence to determine the issues made by such peti9
tion and answer, and decide the same like any issues
10 formed by pleadings in a cause. The complaint in the
11 action, if verified, may be treated as the petition for a
12 receiver when its averments are sufficient, and so of the
13 answer.

Before entering upon his duties, the
2 receiver must be sworn to perform them faithfully, and
3 with one or more sureties, execute an undertaking to The
4 People of the State of Colorado aud in such sum as the
5 court or judge shall direct, to the effect that he will faith6 fully discharge the duties of receiver in the action, and
7 that he will pay over all money and account for all prop8
erty which may come into his hands as such receiver as
9 the court or judge may direct, and obey the orders of the
10 court therein. The undertaking with the surety or sure11
ties must be approved by the court or judge, or by the
12 clerk of the court, when so ordered by the court, or
13 judge, and may be sued on in the name of The People
14 of the State of Colorado, at the instance and to the use
15 of any party injured.

An action may be dismissed or a judg2 ment of non suit entered, in the following cases:
First—By the plaintifff himself, at any time before
4 trial, upon the payment of costs, if a counterclaim has
5 not been made. If a provisional or ancillary remedy
6 has been allowed, the undertaking shall therenpon be
7 delivered by the clerk to the defendant, who may have
8 his action thereon.
Second—By either party, upon the written consent of
10 the other.
Third —Bythecourt,whentheplaintifff failsto appear
12 on the trial, and the defendant appears and asks for the
13 dismissal.
Fourth—Bythecourt, when upon trial,and before the
15 final submission of the case, the plaintifff abandons it.
Fifth —By the court, upon motion of the defendant.
17 when upon the trial, the plaintifff fails to prove sufficient
18 case for the jury. The dismissal mentioned in the first
19 two sub-divisions shall be made by an entry in the
20 clerk's register. Judgment may therenpon be entered
21 accordingly.


In every case, other than those mentioned
2 in the last section, the judgments shall be rendered
3 upon the merits.


Judgment may be had if the defendant fails to answer
3 the complaint, as follows:
First—In an action arising upon contract for the
5 recovery of money or liquidated damages only, if no
6 answer, demurrer or motion has been filed with the
7 clerk of the court within the time specified in the sum8
mons, or such further time as may have been granted
9 the clerk, upon the application of the plaintifff, shall
10 enter the default of the defendant, and immediately
11 thereafter, if the complaint shall have been or shall then
12 be properly verified, enter judgment for the amount
13 specified in the summons, including the cost against the
14 defendant or defendants, who are so in default.
Second—In other actions, if no answer, demurrer, or
16 motion has been filed with the clerk within the time
17 specified in the summons, or such further time as may
18 have been granted, the clerk or judge shall enter the de19
fault of the defendant, and thereafter the plaintifff may
20 apply at any time to the court or the judge thereof for
21 the relief demanded in the complaint. If the taking of
22 an account, or the proof of any fact be necessary to en23
able the court to assess the damages or give judgment,
24 or to carry the judgment into effect, the court may take
25 the account or hear the proof, or may, in its discretion,
26 order a reference for that purpose, and where the action
27 is for the recovery of damages in whole or in part, the
28 court may order the damages to be assessed by a jury,
29 or they may be assessed by the court; or if to determine
30 the amount of damages, the examination of a long
31 account be necessary, by a reference as above provided.
Third —In actions where the service of the summons
33 was by publication or personal service out of the state,
34 the plaintifff, upon the expiration of the time allowed
35 for answer, may, upon proof of the service and that no
36 answer, demurrer or motion has been filed, apply for
37 judgment, and the courts shall therenpon require proof
38 to be made of the demand mentioned in the complaint;
39 and if the defendant be not a resident of the state,
40 shall require the plaintifff, or his agent, to be examined
41 on oath respecting any payments or other satisfaction
42 that have been made to the plaintifff, or to any one for
43 his use on account of such demand, and may render
44 judgment for the amount or other relief which he is
45 entitled to recover. If the answer in any case denies
46 or controverts only part of the cause or causes of action
47 alleged in the complaint, the plaintifff may take judg48
ment by default for the undisputed portion, having the
49 action to proceed, as to the part controverted by the
50 answer. Any of the formalities of this section, if not
51 insisted on at the proper time, shall be deemed waived.

The relief granted to the plaintifff, if there
2 be no answer, shall not exceed that which he shall have
3 demanded in his complaint; but in any other case the
4 court may grant him any relief consistent with the case
5 made by the complaint and embraced within the issue.

An issue arises when a fact or conclusion
2 of law is uiaintained by the one party and is contro3
verted by the other. Issues are of two kinds, of law aud
4 of fact.


.n issue of law arises upon a demurrer to
2 the complaint or answer, or replication or to some part
3 thereof.


An issue of fact arises: First. upon a
2 material allegation in the complaint, controverted by the
3 answer; and, Second, upon new matter in the answer
4 controverted by the replication, or upon new matter in
the replication, except when an issue of law is joined
6 thereon.


An issue of law shall be tried by the court,
2 unless it be referred, as provided in the title in regard
3 to references. In actions for the recovery of specific,
4 real or personal property, with or without damages, or
5 for money claimed as due on contract, or as dam6
ages for breach of contract, or for injuries, an
7 issue of fact must be tried by a jury, unless a jury trial is
8 waived or a reference is ordered, as provided in this code.
9 In other cases, issues of fact must be tried by the court,
10 subject to its power to order any such issue to be tried
11 by a jury, or to be referred to a referee, as provided in
12 this code.

When there are issues both of law and fact
2 to the same complaint. the issues of law shall be first
3 disposed of.

The clerk shall enter causes upon the cal2
endar of the court according to the date of issue, unless
3 for good cause shown the court shall otherwise order.
4 Causes once placed upon the calendar for a general or
5 special term, if not tried or heard at such term, shall
6 remain upon the calendar from term to term until
7 finally disposed of.

When a cause is regularly reached upon
2 the calendar, either party may bring the issue to a trial
3 or to a hearing, and in the absence of the adverse party,
4 unless the court for good cause otherwise direct, the
5 party appearing may proceed with his case and take a
6 finding, verdict, or judgment, or dismissal of the action,
7 as the case may require.

A motion to postpone a trial on grounds of
2 the absence of evidence shall only be made upon affidavit
3 showing the materiality of the evidence expected to be
4 obtained, and that due diligence has been used to pro5
cure it. The court may also require the moving party
6 to state, upon affidavit, the evidence which he expects
7 to obtain, and if the adverse party therenpon admits that
8 such evidence would be given, and that it be consid9
ered as actually given on the trial, or offered and over10 ruled as improper, the trial shall not be postponed ; and
11 upon terms the court may, in its discretion, upon good
12 cause shown, and in furtherance of justice, postpone a
13 trial or proceeding upon other grounds than the ab14
sence of evidence.

Trial by jury may be waived by the
2 several parties to an issue of fact. with the assent of the
3 court, in the following manner:
4 First—By failing to appear at the trial.
5 Second—By written consent, in person or by attorney,
6 filed with the clerk.
7 Third—By oral consent, in open court, entered in
8 the minutes. The court may prescribe, by rule, what
9 shall be deemed a waiver in other cases.

For the trial of a
2 civil action by jury, the jurors shall be drawn by chance
3 from the whole number summoned and in attendance,
4 exceptthosewhomaybeengaged in considering any other
5 cause. The j'ury shall consist of six persons, unless the
6 parties agree to a smaller number, not less than three;
7 Provided, Either party may have the right to increase the
8 numberof jurors to twelve by depositing with the clerk of
9 said court an additional jury fee sufficient to pay the said
10 additional jurors for one day's service, and there shall be .
11 taxed as costs, a like sum for every day thereafter con12
sumed in such trial, to be taxed to the party calling said
13 additional jurors. 

As soon as the jury is completed, an oath
2 or affirmation shall be administered to the jurors in
3 substance:
4 That they and each of them, will w ell and truly try
5 the matter at issue between the
6 plaintifff and the defendant. and
7 a true verdict render, according to the evidence.

Either party may challenge the jurors,
2 but when there are several parties on either side, they
3 shall join in a challenge before it can be made. The
4 challenge shall be to individual jurors, and shall be
5 either peremptory or for cause. Each party shall be
6 entitled to four peremptory challenges.

Challenges for cause may be taken on one
2 or more of the following grounds:
First—A want of any of the qualifications prescribed
4 by the statute to render a person competent as a juror.
Second—Consanguinity or affinity within the third
6 degree to either party.
Third—Standingintherelationof guardian and ward,
8 master and servant, employer and clerk, or principal or
9 agent to either party, or being a member of the family
10 of either party, or a partner in business with either
11 party, or being security on any bond or obligation for
12 either party.
Fourth—Having served as a juror or been a witness
14 on a previous trial between the same parties for the
15 same cause of action.
Fifth—Interest on the part of the jurors in the event
17 of the action, or in the main question involved in the
18 action, except the interest of the juror as a member, or
19 citizen, of a municipal corporation.
Sixth —Having formed or expressed an unqualified
21 opinion or belief as to the merits of the action.
Seventh—The existence of a state of mind in the
23 juror evincing enmity against or bias to either party.


Challenges for cause shall be tried by the
2 court. The juror challenged, and any other person,
3 may be examined as a witness on the trial of the
4 challenge.

The plaintifff first. and afterwards the
2 defendant, shall complete his challenge for cause.

After each challenge sustained, for cause,
2 the vacancy shall be filled before further challenges are
3 made, and any new juror introduced may be challenged
4 for cause, when the challenges for cause shall have been
5 completed, and there shall remain on the panel eight
6 jurors more than the number who are to compose the
7 the jury, the clerk shall make a list of those so remain8
ing, in the order in which their names were called and
9 hand the same to the plaintifff, who shall designate
10 thereon the name of one juror peremptorily challenged
11 by him, and hand the list to the defendant, who shall
12 designate the name forone juror peremptorily challenged
13 by him, and return the list to the plaintifff, and the par14
ties shall so proceed alternately to challenge until the
15 peremptory challenges -shall be exhausted or waived,
16 when the clerk shall call the remaining names, or so
17 many of them as shall be necessary to constitute the
18 jury in the order in which they appear on the list, and
19 the persons whose names are so called shall constitute
20 the jury.


Either party in action may challenge the
2 array of jurors, for any legal cause, which shall be done
3 by petition, setting forth particularly the causes of chal4
lenge, and the party opposing the challenge may join issue
5 of law or fact on such petition, and the issue so formed
6 shall be tried and decided by the court.

When the jury has been sworn, the trial
2 shall proceed in the following order, unless the court,
3 for good cause. otherwise directs:
First —The party on whom rests the burden of the
5 issues may briefly state his case, and the evidence by
6 which he expects to sustain it.
Second—The adverse party may then briefly state
8 his defense, and the evidence he expects to offer in sup9
port of it.
Third —The party on whom rests the burden of the
11 issues must first produce his evidence. The adverse
12 party will then produce his evidence.
Fourth—The parties will then be confined to the re14
butting evidence, unless the court, for good reasons in
15 furtherance of justice, permits them to offer evidence in
16 their original case.
ifth—AYhen the evidence is concluded, and either
18 party desires special instructions to be given to the jury,
19 such instruction shall be reduced to writing, numbered
20 and signed by the party or his attorney asking the same,
and delivered to the court.
Sixth—Before the argument is begun, the court shall
23 give such instructions upon the law to the jury as may
24 be necessary, which instructions shall be in writing and
25 signed by the judge.
Seventh—Where either party asks special instructions,
27 to be given to the jury, the court shall either give such
28 instructions as requested, or give the instructions with
29 modifications, and shall mark or indorse upon each
30 instruction so offered in such manner that it shall dis31 tinctly appear what instructions were given in whole
32 or in part, or refused or modified, and in like manner
33 the modifications, where made. All instructions offered
34 by the parties, or given by the court shall be filed with
35 the papers in the cause, and shall, together with the
36 indorsement thereon indicating the action of the court,
37 betaken as a part of the record of the cause without being
38 made such by a bill of exceptions; and if on any such
39 action of the court so indicated, error be assigned, it shall
40 be reviewed in the appelate court. If requested by either
41 party or the jury, the instructions given may be taken by
42 the jury in their retirement. And in all cases the
43 instructions or any of them, may be read to the jury and
44 commented on by the attorneys in the argument.

Whenever, in the opinion of the court, it
2 is proper for the jury to have a view of the property
3 which is the subject of litigation, or of the place in which
4 any material fact occurred, it may order them to be con5
ducted in a body under the charge of an officer, to the
6 place which shall be shown to them by some person
7 appointed by the court for that purpose. While the jury
8 are thus absent, no person, other than the person so
9 appointed, shall speak to them on any subject connected
10 with the trial.


In all suits, actions and proceedings
2 now pending or which may hereafter be brought. in any
court of this state involving the title to, the right of
4 possession of, or the mineral contained in any mine or
5 mining claim, it shall be the duty of the court, at the
6 trial of such suit, upon the application of either party
7 interested therein, to send the jury empaneled in the
8 case, in a body, to view and inspect the premises. Each
9 party to the suit shall have the privilege of nominating
10 one person, to be approved by the court, to attend with
11 the jury in their view and investigation of the premises
12 in controversy, and such person or persons so selected
13 and appointed by the court shall be authorized to act as
14 guide or guides to the jury, and to point out such feat15
ures in the premises as it is desirable that the jury
16 should see, and answer all questions propounded by the
17 jury; but such person or persons so selected shall not be
18 at liberty to argue or discuss any questions involved in
19 the case either with the jury or with each other in the
20 presence of the jury; and if such person or persons shall
21 violate the above provision, the court shall have the
22 power to punish any one so offending, for contempt of
23 court, by a flne of not more than one hundred dollars or
24 by imprisonment not to exceed ten days in the county
25 jail. 

The expenses which may be incurred in
2 sending the jury to investigate mining premises, as pro3
vided in section 1 herein, shall be paid by the parties to
4 the suit in equal proportions, unless the demand for such
5 investigation shall be made by one party and objected
6 to by the other, in which case the court may apportion
7 such expenses as may seem just and equitable in the
8 particular case. 

If, after empaneling a jury, and before
2 Terdict, a juror become sick, so as to be unable to per3
form his duty, the court may order him to be discharged;
4 In that case the trial may proceed with the other jurors,
5 or a new juror may be sworn and the trial begun anew,
6 or the jury may be discharged, as the parties may agree;
7 and in the latter event, a new jury may then, or after8
wards, be empaneled, in the discretion of the court.

After hearing the charge, the jury may
2 either decide in court or retire for deliberation. If they
3 retire, they shall be kept together in a room provided
4 for them, or some other convenient place, under the
5 charge of one or more officers, until they agree upon their
6 verdict, or are discharged by the court. The officer
7 shall to the utmost of his ability keep the jury together,
8 separate from other persons; he shall not suffer any com9
munication to be made to them, or make any himself,
10 unless by order of the court, except to ask them if they
11 have agreed upon their verdict; and he shall not, before
12 the verdict is rendered, communicate to any person the
13 state of their deliberations, or the verdict agreed upon.


Upon retiring for deliberation, the jury
2 may take with them all papers, except depositions,
accounts or account books which have been received in
4 the case, or copies of such papers as ought not in the
5 opinion of the court to be taken from the person having
0 them in possession, and they may also take with them,
7 notes of the testimony, or other proceedings on the trial,
8 taken by themselves or any of them, but none taken by
9 any other person.

After the jury have retired for delibera2
tion, if they desire to be informed of any point of law
3 arising in the cause, they may require the officer to con4 duct them into the court; upon their being brought into
5 court, the information required shall be given in the
6 presence of, or after notice to, the parties or counsel.

In all cases where a jury are discharged
2 or prevented from giving a verdict by reason of accident
3 or other cause. during the progress of the trial, or after
4 the cause is submitted to them, the action may be again
5 tried immediately or at any future time. as the court
6 shall direct.

While the jury are absent the court may
2 adjourn from time to time, in respect to other business,
3 but it shall be nevertheless deemed open for every pur4
pose connected with the cause submitted to the jury,
5 until a verdict is rendered or the jury discharged. The
6 court may direct the jury to bring in a sealed verdict at
7 theopeningof the court,in case of an agreement during a
8 recess or adjournment for the day. A final adjournment
9 of the court for the term shall discharge the jury.


When the jury have agreed upon their
2 verdict. they shall be conducted into court by the officer
3 having them in charge. Their names shall then be
4 called, and they shall be asked by the court or the clerk
5 whether they have agreed upon their verdict, and if the
6 answerbein the affirmative, they shall, on being required,
7 declare the same.

If the verdict be informal or insufficient
2 in not covering the whole issue or issues submitted, or
3 in any particular, the verdict may be corrected by the
jury, under the advice of the court, or the jury may
5 be again sent out.


When the verdict is given and is not
2 informal or insufficient, and is agreed to by all of the
3 jurors sworn to try the case, it shall be received and
4 recorded, andthe jurydischarged from the case. If all the
5 jurors do not concur in the verdict as reported, the jury
6 may be again sent out, or they may be discharged for
7 disagreement. in the discretion of the court.


The verdict of a jury is cither general or
2 special. A general verdict is that by which they pro3
nounce generally upon all or any of the issues, either in
4 favor of plaintifff or defendant. A special verdict is that
5 by which the jury find the facts only, leaving the judgment
6 to the court. The special verdict shall present the con7
elusions of fact, as established by the evidence, and not
8 the evidence to prove them; and these conclusions of
9 fact shall be so presented as that nothing shall remain
10 to the court but to draw from them conclusions of law.


In an action for the recovery of money
2 only, or specific property, the jury in their discretion
3 may render a general or special verdict. In any case in
4 which the jury render a general verdict, they may be
5 required by the court, to find specially upon any par6
ticular questions of facts to be stated to them in writing,
7 which questions of fact shall be submitted to the attor8
neys of the adverse party before the argument to the jury
9 is commenced. The special verdict or finding shall be
10 filed with the clerk and entered upon the minutes.
11 Where a special finding of facts shall be inconsistent
12 with the general verdict the former shall control the
13 latter, and the court shall give judgment acordingly.

When a verdict is found for the plaintifff
2 in an action for the recovery of money, or for the
defendant, when a counterclaim for the recovery of
i money is established, exceeding the amount of the
5 plaintifffs claim as established, tne jury shall also find
G the amount of the recovery.


In an action for the recovery of specific
2 personal property, if the property has not been delivered
3 to the plaintifff, or the defendant, by his answer, claim or
4 return thereof, the jury, if their verdict be in favor of
5 the plaintifff, or if being in favor of the defendant, they
6 .also find that he is entitled to a return thereof, shall find
7 the value of the property; (but failure to find all of the
8 facts mentioned in this section shall not invalidate the
9 verdict), and may at the same time, assess the damages if
10 any are claimed in the complaint or answer, which the
11 prevailing party has sustained by reason of the taking
12 or detention of such property.


Upon receiving a verdict an entry shall
2 be made by the clerk in the minutes of the court speci3 fying the time of trial, the names of the jurors, unless
4 previously recorded, and the verdict; and where a special
5 verdict is found, either the judgment rendered thereon,
6 or, if the case be reserved for argument or further con7
sideration, the order thus reserving it.

A reference may be ordered upon the
2 agreement of the parties filed with the clerk, or entered
3 in the minutes: First. to try any or all the issues in the
4 action or proceeding, whether of fact or of law, and to
5 report a finding and judgment thereon. Second, to ascer6
tain a fact necessary to enable the court to proceed and
7 determine a case.


When the parties do not consent thereto,
2 the eourt may, upon the application of either, or upon
3 its own motion, direct a reference in the following cases:
4 First, when the trial of an issue of fact requires the
5 examination of any long account on either side, in which
6 case the referees may be directed to hear and decide the
7 whole issue, or report upon any specific question of fact
8 involved therein. Second, when the taking of an
9 account is necessary for the information of the court to
10 assess damages before judgment, or for carrying a judg11
ment or order into effect. Third, when a question of
12 fact, other than that upon the pleadings arises upon
13 motion orotherwisein any stage of the action; or, Fourth,
14 when it is necessary for the information of the court in
15 a special proceeding.


A reference may be ordered to any person
2 or persons, not exceeding three, agreed upon by the
3 parties. If the parties do not agree, the court or judge
4 shall appoint one or more referees, not exceeding three,
5 who reside in the county where the action or proceeding
6 is triable, and against whom there is no objection; or the
7 reference may be made to a referee of the county where
8 the cause is pending. Every referee, before acting as
9 such, shall take and subscribe an oath or affirmation
10 before some authorized officer, which shall be filed with
11 the clerk of the court by which he is appointed, that h(
12 will honestly, impartially and faithfully perform the
13 duties of referee, in the action or matter referred to him
14 as required by law, to the best of his knowledge and
15 ability.

Either party may object before hearing on
2 reference to the appointment of any person as referee,
3 who would be liable to challenge for cause. if called as a
4 juror in the case.


The objection taken to the appointment of
2 any person as a referee, shall be heard and disposed of by
3 the court, or judge thereof in vacation. Affidavits may
4 be read, and any person examined as a witness, as to
5 such objection.

After a cause or question of fact has been
2 referred, either party may bring the matter lo a hearing
3 or trial on giving the opposite party five days' notice,
4 and the court or judge may, on motion, fix a time when
5 the testimony shall be closed and the report made, and
6 may direct the referee to proceed with all due dispatch.

The referee shall for the purpose of the
2 reference. stand in the place of the court. and shall have
3 the same power so far as is necessary, to discharge his
4 duty, subject to the orders and control of the court; and
the trial by referee shall be conducted in the same man6 ner as a trial by the court. He shall have the same
7 powers to summon and enforce by attachment, the
8 attendance of witnesses, to punish them, as for contempt,
9 for non-attendance, or refusal to be sworn or to testify,
10 to administer all necessary oaths, to take testimony by
11 commission, to allow amendments to pleadings, when
12 so specified in the order of appointment, grant contin13 uances, preserve order and punish all violations thereof.
14 Provided, That the person considered in contempt may
15 on motion have the question of the contempt referred
16 immediately to the court or judge where the action is
17 pending, and shall then be treated as a like disobedience
18 of. the order of the court and in such cases no punish19 ment shall be inflicted except on the order of the court.


Where there is more than one referee, any
2 one of them may issue and sign subpoenas or other process,
li and administer oaths necessary for the discharge of their
4 duties and the exercise of all their powers; and when
5 there are three, two of them may do any act which
6 might be done by all.

The form of procedure. which, in
2 the court itself, regulates service, pleading, proof, trial
and the preparation, progression and method of each of
4 these, shall obtain before the referee, and in every inci5
dent of the proceeding before him, the rights and respon6 sibilities of the parties, and of their attorneys, and
7 of the referee, shall be the same as if the referee were
8 the court engaged in the same manner.

The referee shall sign and file in the court
2 a report of the findings, together with all the evidence
3 in writing in narrative form or by questions and answers,
4 unless the report of the evidence shall be waived by
5 consent, stating the findings of fact and conclusions of
6 law separately and in a clear and intelligible manner.
7 All objections and exceptions by either party to the opin8
ions, decisions or rulings of the referee shall be noted in
9 the report at the time of taking the same, and shall be
10 preserved and filed in connection therewith, and shall be
11 deemed a part of the record of the cause as a bill of
12 exceptions forall purposes when required by either party,
13 and the court may require the report to be amended so
14 as to show any objections or exceptions which have been
15 omitted therefrom. The findings of the referee upon
16 the whole issue shall stand as the finding of the court,
17 and upon filing the same with the clerk, judgment shall
18 be entered thereon in the same manner as if the action
19 had been tried by the court, unless objected to by either
20 party by filing a motion for a new trial as hereinafter
21 provided. When the referee is to report the facts, the
22 finding shall have the effect of a special verdict.

The clerk shall immediately notify both
2 parties, or their attorneys, of the tiling of the report of
3 the referee, and no judgment shall be entered thereon
4 until five days after such notice, and until after the
5 court shall have passed upon the objections specified in
the motion for a new trial, which may be filed to such
7 report.


The court may grant a new trial upon
2 the report of the referee, upon motion therefore filed by
3 either party within the same time. on the same grounds
4 and in the same manner as upon the verdict of a jury
5 or the decision of the court, or may modify the findings
6 of the referee and enter judgment accordingly, when it
7 is manifest from the evidence reported what the findings
8 and judgment should be.

The court shall have power by order to
2 fix the compensation of the referees, where the parties
3 interested do not agree, which order shall be subject to
4 review and correction on appeal or writ of error.


A new trial is a re-examination of an
2 issue of fact in the same court, after trial and decision
3 by a jury, court or referee.


The former verdict or other decision or
2 judgment of the court or referee may be vacated, and a
3 new trial granted on the application of the party
4 aggrieved, for any of the following causes, materially
5 affecting the substantial rights of said party:
First—Irregularity in the proceedings of the court,
7 referee or jury, or adverse party, or any order of the
8 court or referee, or abuse of discretion by which either
9 party was prevented from having a fair trial
Second—Misconduct of the jury, and when any one
11 or more of the jurors shall have been induced to assent
to any general or special verdict, or to a finding on any
13 question or questions submitted to them by the court, by
14 a resort to the determination of chance, such miscon15
duct may be proved by the affidavits of one or more of
16 the jurors.
Third—Accident or surprise, which ordinary pru18 dence could not have guarded against.
Fourth—Newly discovered evidence material for the
20 party making the application which he could not, with
21 reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced at
22 the trial.
Fifth—Excessive or inadequate damages appearing
24 to have been given under the influence of passion or
25 prejudice.
Sixth —Insufficiency of the evidence to justify the
27 verdict, or other decision, or that it is against law.
Seventh—Error in law, occuring at the trial, and
29 excepted to by the party making the application. When
30 the application is made for a cause mentioned in the
31 first, second, third or fourth of the foregoing subdi32
visions, it shall be made upon affidavit or affidavits to
33 be filed with the motion.


The motion for a new trial and reasons
2 therefore, and affidavits in support thereof, when required
3 shall be filed within five days after the verdict is ren4
dered (but in any event before the adjournment of the
5 term), or within five days after notice of the filing of the
6 report of the referee, or the announcement of the decision
7 of the court, and at the same term, but the court nlay
8 extend the time for good cause; and when for any cause
9 such motion cannot be heard at the term when filed, the
10 same may be heard at the succeeding term. When the
11 trial is by the court and either party or his attorney is
12 not present when the decision is announced, he shall be
13 notified thereof the same as when the report of the ref14
erees is filed.

On the argument of the motion for a new
2 trial, reference may also be made to the pleadings, dep3 ositions and evidence, and to the minutes of the court.
4 If the application be made upon affidavits filed, the
5 adverse party may use counter affidavits on the hearing.

The hearing on a motion for a new trial
2 shall be had at the earliest period practicable after the
3 filing of the motion.

A judgment is the final determination of
2 the rights of the parties in the action of proceedings, and
3 may be entered in a term or vacation.

Judgment may be given for or against
2 one or more of several plaintifffs, and for or against one
or more of several defendants; and it may, when the
4 justice of the case requires it, determine the ultimate
5 rights of the parties on each side as between themselves.

In an action against several defendants,
2 the court may, in its discretion, render judgment for or
3 against one or more of them, allowing the action to pro
4 ceed against the others, whenever a several judgment is
5 proper.


When trial by jury has been had, judg2
ment shall be entered by the clerk in conformity to the
3 verdict, within twenty-four hours after the rendition
4 thereof, unless the court order the case to be reserved
5 for argument or further consideration, or grant a stay of
6 proceedings; but such entry of judgment shall not prej7
udice any motion for a new trial made in due time.

When the case is thus reserved, it may be
2 brought by either party before the court for argument.

tn an action to recover the possession of
2 persona] property, judgment for the plaintifff may be for
3 the possession or the value thereof, in case a delivery
4 cannot be had, and damages for the detention. If the
5 property has been delivered to the plaintifff, and the
6 defendant claim, or return thereof, judgment for the
7 defendant may be for a return of the property, or the
8 value thereof, in case a return cannot be had, and dama9
ges for taking and withholding the same.

The clerk shall keep among the records
2 of court a book for the entry of judgments, to be called
3 the "judgment book," in which each judgment shall be
entered, and shall specify clearly the relief granted, or
5 other determination of the action.


If a party die after a verdict or decision
2 upon any issue of fact, and before judgment, the court
3 may, nevertheless, render judgment thereon. Such
4 judgment shall not be a lien on the real property of the
5 deceased party, but shall be payable in the course of
G administration on his estate.

Immediately after entering the judgment,
2 the clerk shall make the proper entries of the judgment,
3 under appropriate heads, in a docket to be kept by him
4 in his office for that purpose, to be called the "judg5 ment docket." The pages of such docket shall be
6 divided into suitable columns and headed as follows:
7 Judgment debtors, judgment creditors, judgment, time
8 of entry, where entered into the judgment book, motion
9 for new trials and appeals, when taken, judgment of
10 appellate court, satisfaction of judgment, when entered.
11 If judgment be for the recovery of money or damages,
the amount shall be stated in the docket under the head
13 of judgments; if the judgment be for any other relief,
14 a memorandum of the general character of the relief
15 granted shall be stated. The names of the defendants
16 shall be entered in the docket in alphabetical order.


The judgment docket shall be open at all
2 times, (luring office hours, for the inspection of the pub
lie, without charge; and it shall be the duty of the clerk
4 to arrange the several dockets and books of record kept
5 by him in such manner as to facilitate their inspection.

A transcript of the docket entry of any
2 judgment in the judgment docket. certified by the clerk,
15 may be filed with the recorder of any county; and from
4 the time of filing such transcript, the judgment shall
5 become a lien upon all the real property of such judg6 ment debtor not exempt from execution in such county.
7 owned by him, or winch he may afterwards acquire,
8 until the said lien expires. The lien shall continue for
9 six years from the entry of judgment, unless the judg10 ment be previously satisfied.


Satisfaction of a judgment may be entered
2 in the judgment docket upon an execution returned sat3
isfied, or upon an acknowledgment of satisfaction filed
4 with the clerk, made in the manner of an acknowledg5
ment of a conveyance of real property by the judgment
6 creditor, or within one year after the judgment, by the
,7 attorney, unless a revocation of his authority be previ8
ously filed. Whenever a judgment shall be satisfied in
9 fact otherwise than upon execution, it shall be the duty of
10 the party or attorney to give such acknowledgment, and,
upon motion, the court may compel it or may order the
12 entry of satisfaction to be made without it.


A transcript of any judgment rendered, by
2 any justice of the peace, duly certified by such justice.
3 may be filed with the clerk of the district court of the
4 county in which said judgment was rendered, and there5 upon the clerk shall make entries thereof in the register
6 of actions and in the judgment docket. and may therefore
7 issue execution for the collection thereof within such
8 county, the same as if such judgment had been ren9
dered by such district court. also, a transcript of the
10 entry of such judgment in the judgment docket
11 aforesaid, certified by such clerk, may be filed with
12 the recorder of the county in which such judgment
13 shall have been rendered; and from the time of
14 filing such transcript. such judgment shall become a
15 lien upon all of the property of the judgment debtor,
10 except personal property and property exempt from exe17
cution, in such county, in the same manner and to the
18 same extent as if judgment had been originally rendered
19 in a court of record. Said lien shall continue for six
20 years from the entry of judgment. unless the judgment
21 be previously satisfied.

When a judgment is recovered against
2 one or more of several persons, jointly indebted upon an
3 obligation, by proceeding as provided in this act, those
4 who were not originally served with the summons and
5 did not appear to the action, may be summoned to show
6 cause why they should not be bound by the judgment,
7 in the same manner as though they had been originally
8 served with the summons.

The summons as provided in the last sec2 tion, shall describe the judgment and require the person
3 summoned to show cause why he should not be bound
4 by it, and shall be served in the same manner and return5
able within the same time as other summons. It shall
6 not be necessary to file a new complaint.

The summons shall be accompanied by
2 an affidavit of the plaintifff, his agent, representative or
3 attorney, that the judgment or some part thereof remains
4 unsatisfied, and shall specify the amount due thereon.

Upon such summons the defendant may
2 answer within the time specified therein, denying the
3 judgment or setting up any defense which may have
4 arisen subsequently, or he may deny his liability on the
5 obligation upon which the judgment was recovered, for
6 any cause except a discharge from such liability by the
7 statute of limitation.

If the defendant in his answer deny the
2 judgment, or set up any defense which may have arisen
3 subsequently, the summons, with the affidavit annexed,
4 and the answer, shall constitute the allegations in the
5 case; if he deny his liability on the obligation upon
6 which the judgment was recovered, a copy of the origi7 nal complaint and judgment. the summons, with the
8 affidavit annexed, and the answer, shall constitute such
9 written allegations.

The issues formed may be tried as in
2 other cases, but when the defendant denies in his answer
3 any liability on the obligation upon which the judgment
4 was rendered, if a verdict be found against him, it shall
5 be for the amount remaining unsatisfied on such original
6 judgment, with interest thereon.

A judgment in a civil action may be
2 revived by filing a petition in the action alleging the
3 time the judgment was rendered, that it remains unsat4 isfied in whole or in part, stating the amount it is claimed
5 the judgment should be revived for; which petition shall
6 be verified, as complaints are required to be by this act.


Upon filing such petition, the clerk shall
2 issue an order to show cause why such judgment shall
3 not be revived, if any there be, which order to show
4 cause shall be directed to and served on the defendants,
5 in the same manner as summons are required to be
6 served. The order to show cause shall require the
7 defendants to appear and show cause within ten days
8 after service on them.

The defendant may appear and answer the
2 petition in the same manner complaints are required to
3 be answered, and the court shall try and determine any
4 issue so formed, the same as any issues made by pleadfi
ings are required to be tried and decided, and hear any
fi evidence necessary to decide the matter.


If the court decide to revive the judgment,
2 in whole or in part, it shall so order, and the papers and
3 proceedings shall be attached to the original files in the
4 cause, and the entry of the revivor made in the judg5
ment docket and judgment book, and if the petition is
6 filed before the liens created by the original judgment
7 have expired, and the transcript of the entry of revivor
8 in the judgment docket be filed with the recorder of the
9 county as provided for in the case of original judg10 ments, all rights under such judgments shall continue,
11 and execution may issue on such revived judgment, the
12 same as on the original judgment.


When an execution against property of
2 the judgment debtor, or any of several debtors in the
3 same judgment, issued to the sheriff of the county
4 where he resides, or, if he does not reside in this state,
5 to the sheriff of the county where the judgment was
6 rendered, is returned unsatisfied in whole or in part,
7 the judgment creditor, at any time after such return is
8 made, shall be entitled to an order from the judge of
9 the court, or county judge, requiring such judgment
10 debtor to appear and answer concerning his property
11 before such judge, or a referee appointed by him, at a
12 time and place specified in the order; but no judgment
13 debtor shall be required to attend before a judge or
14 referee out of the county in which he resides, when pro15
ceedings are taken under the provisions of this chapter;
16 Provided, If the debtor has no settled place of residence
17 in the state, he may be required to attend in the county
18 where he may be found; and the proceedings shall not
19 be quashed on the ground that the debtor is ordered to
20 attend in the wrong county, unless he shall raise such
21 question at or before the time he is required to answer.

After issuing an execution against prop2
erty, and upon proof by affidavit by a party, or other3 wise, to the satisfaction of the court, or a judge thereof,
4 that any judgment debtor has property which he unjustly
5 refuses to apply toward the satisfaction of the judgment,
(5 such court or judge may, by an order, require the judg7
ment debtor to appear at a specified time and place before
8 such judge, or referee appointed by him, to answer con9
cerning the same. And such proceedings may therenpon
10 be had for the application of the property of the judg11
ment debtor toward the satisfaction of the judgment, as
12 are provided upon the return of an execution. Instead
13 of the order requiring the attendance of the judgment
14 debtor, the judge may, upon the affidavit of the judg15 ment creditor, his agent or attorney, if it appear to him
16 that there is danger of the debtor absconding, order the
17 sheriff to arrest the debtor and bring him before the
18 judge. On being brought before the judge he may be
19 ordered to enter into an undertaking, with surety, that
20 he will attend from time to time before the judge or
21 referee, as shall be directed during the pendency of the
22 proceedings, and until the final determination thereof,
23 and will not, in the meantime, dispose of any portion of
24 his property not exempt from execution. In default of
25 entering into such undertaking, he may be committed
26 to prison.

After the issuing of an execution against
2 property, any person indebted to the judgment debtor
3 may pay to the sheriff the amount of his debt, or so
4 much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy the execu5
tion, and the sheriff's receipt shall be a sufficient
6 discharge for the amount so paid.

After issuing or return of one execution
2 against property of a judgment debtor or any one of sev3
eral debtors in the same judgment, and upon proof, by
4 affidavit or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the judge,
5 that any person or corporation has property of such judg6
ment debtor, or is indebted to him in an amount exceed7
ing fifty dollars, not exempt from execution, the judge
8 may, by an order, require such person or corporation, or
9 any officer or member thereof to appear, at a specified
10 time or place, before him or a referee appointed by him.
11 and answer concerning the same.

Witnesses may be required to appear and
2 testify before the judge or referee upon any proceeding
under this chapter, in the same manner as upon trial of
4 an issue.

The judge or referee may order any prop2
erty of the judgment debtor, not exempt from execution,
3 in the hands of such debtor or any other person, or due
4 to the judgment debtor, to be applied towards the satis5
faction of the judgment.

If any person, party or witness disobey an
2 order of the referee, properly made, in the proceeding
3 before him under this chapter, he may be punished by
4 the court or judge ordering the reference for a contempt.
5 Nothing in this act shall be so construed as to prevent
6 the bringing of an action in the nature of a creditor's
7 bill.

In actions for the foreclosure of mortgages,
2 the court shall have the power, by its judgment, to
3 direct the sale of the encumbered property, or as much as
4 may be necessary, and the application of the proceeds of
5 the sale to the payment of the costs of the court and
6 expenses of the sale, and the amount due to the plaintifff;
7 and if it appears from the sheriff's return that the pro8
ceeds are insufficient and a balance still remains due,
9 judgment shall be docketed for such balance against the
10 defendant, or defendants, personally liable for the debt.
11 and shall then become a lien on the real estate of such
12 judgment debtor, as in other cases in which execution
13 may be issued. No person holding a conveyance from
14 or under the mortgagor, or of the property mortgaged,
15 or having a lien thereon, which conveyance or lien does
16 not appear on record in the proper office at the time of
17 the commencement of the action, need be made a party
18 to such action, and the judgment therein rendered and
19 the proceedings therein had shall be as conclusive
20 against the party holding such unrecorded conveyance
21 or lien, as if he had been made a party to said action.
22 and shall, in all respects, have the same force and effect.

If there be surplus, money remaining after
2 payment on the amount due on the mortgage lien or en3
cumbrance, with costs, the court may cause the same to
4 be paid to the person entitled to it, and in the mean time
5 may direct it to be deposited in court.

If the debt for which the mortgage, lien
2 or encumbrance is held be not all due, so soon as suffl3
cient of the property has been sold to pay the amount
4 due with costs, the sale shall cease, and afterwards as
5 often as more becomes due for principal or interest, the
6 court may, on motion, order more to be sold. But if the
7 property cannot be sold in portions without injury to the
8 parties, the whole may be ordered to be sold in the first
9 instance, and the entire debt and costs paid, there being
10 a rebate of interest where such rebate is proper.


An action may be brought by any person
2 in possession, by himself or his tenant. of real property,
3 against any person who claims an estate therein adverse
4 to him, for the purpose of determining such adverse
5 claim, estate or interest.


If the defendant in such action disclaim
2 in his answer, any interest or estate in the property, or
3 suffer judgment to be taken against him without answer,
4 the plaintifff shall not recover costs.

In on action for the recovery of real
2 property, where the plaintifff shows the right to recover
3 at the time the action was commenced, but it appears
4 that his right has terminated during the pendency of the
5 action, the verdict and judgment shall be according to
6 the fact, and the plaintifff may recover damages for with7
holding the property.

When damages are claimed for withhold2 ing the property recovered, or for ouster upon which
3 permanent imjjrovements have been made by a defend4 ant, or those under whom he claims, holding under color
5 of title adversely to the claims of the plaintifff, in good
6 faith, the value of such improvements shall be allowed
7 as a set-off against such damages, except improvements
8 made upon mining property, and if damages are or are
9 not claimed for withholding the property recovered, or
10 for ouster, the defendaut may counterclaim the value
11 of improvement made by him, or those under whom he
12 claims, if made under color of title and in good faith.

The court in which action is pending for
2 recovery of real property, or a judge thereof, may on
3 motion, upon notice by either party, for good cause.
4 shown by affidavit, grant an order allowing such party
5 the right to enter upon the property and make a survey
6 and measurement thereof for the purpose of the action,
7 and the adverse party may resist the granting of such
8 order upon counter affidavits.

The order shall describe the property, and
2 a copy thereof shall be served on the owner or occupant.
3 and thereupon such party may enter upon the property
4 with necessary surveyors and assistants and may make
5 such survey and measurement; but if any unnecessary
6 injury be done to the property, he shall be liable there7
for.

A mortgage of real property shall not be
2 deemed a conveyance, whatever its terms, so as to enable
3 the owner of the mortgage to recover possession of the
4 real property without foreclosure and sale, and the fact
5 of a deed being a mortgage in effect, may be proved by
oral testimony; but this section shall not apply to trust
7 deeds with power of sale.


The court may. by injunction, on good
2 cause shown, restrain the party in possession from doing
any act to the injury of real property during the fore4 closure of a mortgage thereon, or after a sale on execu5
tion before a conveyance.

When real property shall have been sold
2 on execution, the purchaser thereof, or any person who
3 may have succeeded to his interest, after his estate
4 becomes absolute, recover damages for injury to the
5 property by the tenant in possession, after a sale and
6 before possession is delivered under the conveyance.

An action for the recovery of real prop
2 erty against a person in possession cannot be prejudiced
by any alienation made by such person, either before or
4 after the commencement of the action.

An action to recover the possession of real
'2 property may be brought in any case where an action of
3 ejectment or a writ of right might have been brought at
4 common law, and in any case where the plaintifff claims
5 a legal estate in real property or lands, in fee, or for life.
6 or for years, or claims the legal right to occupy an(
7 possess the same; Provided, however, In all actions
8 relating to the possession of real estate, those of forcible
9 entry or unlawful detainer shall be deemed and held
10 concurrent remedies herewith, and may be prosecuted in
11 accordance with the law of this state relating to forcible
12 entry and detainer.

If the premises for which the action is
2 brought are continually occupied such actual occupant
3 shall be made defendant in the action, together with any
4 person claiming title to or any interest in the premises
5 adversely to the plaintifff. If the premises are not occu
6 pied the action shall be brought against any person
7 exercising acts of ownership on or over the premise(8 claimed, or who claims title thereto, or some interest
9 therein at the time of the commencement of the action.

The plaintifff in his complaint, shall set
2 forth the nature and extent of his estate in the property .
3 and state whether it be in fee, for life, or for the life of
4 another, or for a term of years, and specifying such life
5 or the duration of such term; or, if such plaintifff claims
6 the legal right to occupy and possess the premises under
7 the local laws and rules of any mining district, or of the
8 United States, the State of Colorado, or otherwise. the
9 complaint shall contain a brief statement of such possess10 ory claim, and whether the right claimed is by preemp11
lion or purchase, or by right of actual prior possession
12 on the public domain of the United States. If the plain13
tiff claims any undivided interest in the premises, as
14 tenant in common, or otherwise, he shall state particu15
larly the interest he claims. The plaintifff shall also
16 state that he is entitled to the possession of the premises,
17 and that the defendant wrongfully ousted the plaintifff.
18 or wrongfully withholds the premises from him, or both,
19 as the facts may be, and state the damages claimed for
20 the ouster, or detention, or both, which damages shall
21 be recovered and assessed by the court or jury in the same
22 action.


The answer to a complaint filed under
2 this chapter shall either specifically or generally deny
3 the material allegations of the complaint. or may disclaim
4 any interests in. or posession of the property claimed, or
5 any part thereof. The answer may also state, generally,
6 as in the complaint, the character of the estate in the
7 premises, or any part thereof, which the defendant
8 claims, or any right of possession or occupancy he
9 claims.

The verdict may be for or against either
2 of the plaintifffs or defendants, and shall be rendered as
3 follows:
First—If it be shown on the trial that all the plaintifffs
5 have a right to recover the possession of the premises,
6 the verdict in that respect shall be for the plaintifffs gen7
erally.
Second—If it appearthat one ormore of the plaintifffs
9 have a right to the possession of the premises, and that
10 one or more have not such right, the verdict shall spe
11 cify for which plaintifff the jury find, and as to which
12 plaintifff they find for the defendant.
Third—If the verdict be for any plaintifff, and there
14 be several defendants, the verdict shall be rendered
15 against such of them as were in possession of the
16 premises, or as claimed title thereto, at the commence17
ment of the action.
Fourth —If theverdictbeforall the premises claimed,
19 as specified in the complaint, it shall in that respect be
20 for such premises generally.
ifth —If the verdict be for part of the premises
22 described in such complaint, the verdict shall particn23
larlyspecifysuchpart,asthe same shall have been proved,
24 with the same certainty hereinbefore required in the
25 description of the premises claimed.
Sixth—If the verdict be for an undivided share or
27 interest in the premises claimed, it shall specify such
28 share or interest, and if for an undivided share in a part
21) of the premises claimed, it shall specify such share, and
30 shall describe such part of the premises as hereinbefore
31 required.
Seventh —The verdict shall specify the estate which
33 shall have been established on the trial by the plaintifff,
34 in whose favor it shall be rendered, whether such estate
35 be in fee, for his own life, or the life of another, stating
36 such lives, or whether it be for a term of years, specify'.',7
ing the duration of such term, or whether the plaintifff
38 hath established only his right to the possession and
39 occupancy of the premises in controversy. The verdict
40 shall also, if for the plaintifff, tind the amount of dam41
ages he is entitled to for the ouster or detention, or both.

The action for the recovery of real prop
2 erty shall not abate by the death of either or all the
3 parties thereto, but may be revived in the name of the
heirs, representatives or successors in interest, in the
5 manner other civil actions are revived by this act.


The judgment in an action brought under
2 this chapter shall be in accordance with the verdict, or if
3 tried by the court, the judgment shall particularly spec4
ify the findings of the court, the same as the jury are, by
5 this chapter, required to specify in their findings in the
6 verdict, and if judgment be rendered for the plaintifff, it
7 shall specify the amount of damages to be recovered.

Whenever judgment shall be rendered against either
2 party under the provisions of this chapter, it shall be
3 lawful for the party against whom such judgment is
4 rendered, his heirs or assigns, at any time before the
5 first day of the next succeeding term, to pay all costs
G recovered thereby; and upon application of the party
7 against whom the same is rendered,, his heirs or assigns.
8 the court shall vacate such judgment and grant a new
9 trial in such case (but only one new trial shall be granted
10 in any case, as of right, without showing cause); and
11 after such judgment is vacaled the cause shall stand for
12 trial the same as though it had never been tried; and
13 in case possession may have been recovered under the
14 action for possession of title brought or prosecuted
15 under the provisions of this chapter, the plaintifff may
16 bring his action for the rents and profits thereof; and
17 in such action the measure of damages shall be the same
18 as in actions for mesne profits at common law; and in
19 case such premises recovered be a lode, vein or mining
20 claim, the defendant shall not be entitled to any offset
21 for any timbering, cribbing, improvements or develop22
ments made upon the same; neither shall the damages
23 be abated or lessened by reason of such improvements
24 or developments. 

The plaintifffs who recover, or either of
2 them, shall be entitled to special execution, in the nature
3 of a writ of possession, directing the sheriff to put then>
4 into the immediate possession of the premises recovered.
5 describing the premises with the certainty required in
6 the complaint, and which execution shall also direct tin
7 sheriff to make any sum or sums of money adjudged to
8 be paid the plaintifff, as damages or costs. The defend9 ants, or either of them who recover, shall be entitled te
10 their costs.

In every action hereafter brought for the
2 recovery of lands, the legal fee title to which remains in
3 the United States, the plaintifff and defendant shall be
4 confined in their evidence to their respective rights and
5 claims, and the rights and claims of their grantors and
6 and privies in interest, and the action shall not be
7 affected by any right or claims of third persons, not in
8 privity with either party to the premises, or by reason
9 of the fee remaining in the United States; Provided,
10 The fee being in the United States shall not prevent a
11 person from recovering lands, premises, lodes, ledges or
12 mining claims upon the receiver's duplicate receipt.

The action may be brought by one or
2 more tenants, in common against their co-tenants, and
3 in that case the plaintifff shall, in addition to other
4 evidence, be required to prove that the defendant actually
5 ousted such plaintifff, or did some act or acts amounting
6 to a denial of his right as such co-tenant.

If the defendant files, or makes any other
2 answer or defense than a disclaimer of title or right of
3 possession, it shall not be necessary for the plaintifff to
4 prove him in possession of the premises at the time of
5 the commencement of the action, or at any time.

All the rules of practice and pleading and
2 proceedings prescribed in this act of civil procedure, and
3 not otherwise specially provided in this chapter, shall be
4 applicable to actions brought under this chapter, and
5 notice of pendency of action must be filed with the
6 recorder, as prescribed in this act.


Parties to a question in difference which
2 might be the subject of a civil action may, without action,.
3 agree upon a case containing the facts upon which the
4 controversy depends and present a submission of the
5 same to any court which would have jurisdiction if an
6 action had been brought, but it must appear by affidavit
7 that the controversy is real and the proceedings in goot1
8 faith to determine the rights of the parties. The court
9 shall thereupon hear and determine the case and render
10 judgment thereon, as if an action were depending.

Judgment shall be entered in the judg2 inent book and judgment docket, as in other cases, but
3 without costs for any proceeding prior to the trial.

The judgment may be enforced in the
2 same manner as if it had been rendered in an action, and
3 shall be in the same manner subject to appeal.

The defendant may at any time before
2 the trial or judgment, serve upon the plaintifff an offer to
3 allow judgment to be taken against him for the sum of
4 property, or to the effect therein specified. If the plain5
tiff accept the offer and give notice thereof within five
6 days, he may file the summons, complaint and offer
7 with an affidavit of notice of acceptance, and the clerk
8 therenpon shall enter judgment accordingly. If the
9 notice of acceptance be not given, the offer shall be
10 deemed withdrawn, and shall not be given in evidence;
11 but if the plaintifff fail to obtain a more favorable judg
12 ment he shall not recover costs but shall pay the defend13
ant's costs from the time of the offer.

That all controversies which may be the
2 subject of a civil action, may be submitted to the decision
3 of one or more arbitrators, in the manner and with the
4 effect indicated in this act.

In order to make future arbitrations obli
2 gatory and binding upon the parties, they shall before
3 they make their submission, make and subscribe a writ4
ten article of agreement, in and by which they shall
5 agree tb submit all matters, or some particular matter of
6 difference, to the arbitrators named, and to abide their
7 award; and, also, that the award, when made, may be
8 filed by the successful party with the clerk of the dis9
trict court, as a basis of a judgment, and that an execu10 tion may be issued for its collection.


Arbitrators shall not have power hereafter
2 to act until they take and subscribe an oath, before some
3 person authorized by law to administer oaths, to the
4 effect that they will well and truly try, and impartially
5 and justly decide the matter in controversy, according
to the best of their ability, which oath shall be filed
7 with their award.


Arbitrators duly sworn and entered upon
2 their duties, shall have power to issue subpoenas for wit3 nesses, which a court of record in a proper case may aid
4 and enforce by attachment, and after a trial and hearing,
5 they shall decide the matters in controversy in writing,
6 according to the very right of the matters. Any arbi7
trator may administer oaths to witnesses, and where there
8 are three arbitrators, two of them may do any act which
9 might be done by all.

The party in whose favor any award shall
2 be made, may file the same with the clerk of the dis3 trict court of the county wherein the matters were arbi4
trated, who shall be authorized to enter a judgment
5 thereon, and if such award requires the payment of any
6 sum of money, it shall be lawful for the clerk to issue an
7 execution, out of and under the seal of the court for the
8 collection of the judgment.

Arbitrators shall be entitled to receive from
2 the parties in whose favor the award is made, three dol3
lars per day for their services, and the amount of their
4 compensation shall be included in their award and in the
5 judgment entered thereon by the clerk. The arbitrators
6 shall not be required to deliver their award to such suc7
cessful parties until their said compensation shall have
8 been paid.

Whenever it shall appear upon the trial of
2 an action at law, or in equity, or in any legal proceed3
ing, in or before any court of competent jurisdiction.
4 that the subject matter of such action, or proceeding, or
5 any part thereof, or the defense thereto, or of any part
6 thereof, has been submitted to and decided by arbitra
tors, according to the terms of this act, such matter so
8 arbitrated shall be held to have been adjudicated and
9 settled, and not open, either directly or indirectly, for
10 review; but this shall not be construed to prevent an
11 adjudication by arbitrators from being impeached and
12 set aside for fraud or other sufficient cause, the same as
13 a judgment of a court of record, nor to prevent a party
14 from relief on the ground of mistake, inadvertence, sur15 prise, or excusable neglect, as in case of other judg16
ments, orders, or proceedings of the court.

An action may be brought by the district
2 attorney in the name of The People of this State, upon
3 his own information, or upon the relation and complaint
4 of a private party, against any person who usurps,
5 intrudes into, or unlawfully holds or exercises any public
6 office, civil or military, or any franchise within his
7 district in the state, and it shall be the duty of the
8 district attorney to bring the action whenever he has
9 reason to believe that any such office or franchise has
10 been usurped, intruded into or unlawfully held, or
11 exercised by any person, or when he is directed to do so
12 by the governor and in case such district attorney shall
13 neglect or refuse to bring such action upon the com14 plaint of a private party, such action may be brought by
15 such private party upon his own relation, in the name
16 of The People of the State.

Whenever such action is brought, the
2 district attorney, or relator, in addition to the statement
3 of the cause of action, may also set forth in the com4
plaint the name of the person rightly entitled to the
5 office, with a statement of his rights thereto.

In every case such judgment may be ren2 dered upon the right of the defendant, and also upon
3 the right of the party so alleged to be entitled, or only
4 upon the right of the defendant, as justice shall require.

If judgment be rendered upon the right
2 of the person so alleged to be entitled, and the
3 same be in favor of such person, he may recover, by
4 taking the oath of office and executing such official bond
5 as may be required by law, to take upon himself the
6 execution of the office.

If judgment be rendered upon the right
2 of the person so alleged to be entitled, and the
same be in favor of such person, he may recover, by
4 action, the damages which he shall have sustained by
5 reason of the usurpation of the office by the defendant.

When several persons claim to be entitled
2 to the same office or franchise, one action may be brought
3 against all such persons in order to try their respective
4 rights to such office or franchise.

When a defendant against whom such
2 action has been brought, is adjudged guilty of usurping
3 or intruding into, or unlawfully holding any office, fran
4 chise or privilege, judgment shall be rendered that such
5 defendant be excluded from such office, franchise or
6 privilege, and that he pay the cost of the action. The
7 court may also, in its discretion, impose upon the defend8
ant a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars, which fine
9 when collected, shall be paid into the treasury of the
10 state.


The writ of certiorari may be denominat2 ed the writ of review.


The writ may be granted on application
2 by any court of record, or upon the order of any judge
3 thereof. The writ shall be granted in all cases where an
4 inferior tribunal, board or officer exercising judicial
5 functions, has exceeded the jurisdiction or greath
6 abused the discretion of such tribunal, board or officer.
7 and there is no appeal, nor in the judgment of the court
8 any plain, speedy and adequate remedy.


The application shall be made on affida
2 vit, by the party beneficially interested; and the court
3 may require a notice of the application to be given to the
4 adverse party, or may grant an order to show cause why
5 it should not be allowed, or may grant the writ without
6 notice.

The writ may be directed to the inferior
2 tribunal, board or officer, or to any other person having
3 custody of the record or proceedings to be certified.
4 When directed to a tribunal, the clerk thereof, if there
5 be one, shall return the writ with the transcript required.

The writ of review shall command the
2 party to whom it is directed, or tribunal, to certify fully
3 to the court issuing the writ, at a specified time and
4 place, and annex to the writ a transcript of the record
5 and proceedings (describing or referring to them with con6
venient certainty), that the same may be reviewed by the
7 court, and requiring the party or tribunal in the mean
8 time to desist from further proceedings in the matter to
9 be reviewed.

If a stay of proceedings be not intended
2 the words requiring the stay shall be omitted from the
3 writ. These words may be inserted or omitted in the
4 sound discretion of the court ; but if omitted, the power
5 of the inferior court or officer shall not be suspended nor
6 the proceedings stayed.


The writ shall be served in the same roan2
ner as a summons in civil action, except when otherwise
3 expressly directed by the court.


The review upon the writ shall not be
2 extended further than to determine whether the inferior
3 tribunal, board or officer has regularly pursued the
4 authority of such tribunal, board or officer.

If the return of the writ be defective, the
2 court may order further return to be made. When a
3 full return has been made the court shall proceed to hear
4 the parties, or such of them as may attend for that pur5 pose, and may therenpon give judgment, either affirming,
6 or annulling, or modifying the proceedings below. The
7 judgment shall be entered in the judgment book and
8 judgment docket, as in other cases.

A copy of the judgment, signed by the
2 clerk, shall be transmitted to the inferior tribunal, board
3 or officer, having the custody of the record or proceed
4 ings, certified up.

If the proceedings be had in any other
2 than the supreme court. an appeal may be taken fron
the judgment, in the same manner and upon the same
4 terms as from a judgment in a civil action. The judg5
ment rendered under the provisions of this chapter, if
6 disobeyed, may be enforced by proceedings for contempt;
7 Provided, Nothing herein shall prevent or interfere with
8 removing a judgment from an inferior to a superior
9 court, by appeal, writ of error, or certiorari, as provided
10 by any other law of the state.


The writ of mandamus may be issued, in
2 the manner provided in this chapter, and not otherwise,
3 by any court of record or upon the order of any judge
4 thereof, to an inferior tribunal, corporation, board, officer
5 or person to compel the performance of an act which the
6 law specially enjoins as a duty resulting from an office,
7 trust or station, or to compel the admission of a party to
8 the use and enjoyment of a right or office to which he is
9 entitled, and from which he is unlawfully precluded by
10 such inferior tribunal, corporation, board, officer or
11 person.

The writ shall not be issued in any case
2 where there is a plain, speedy and adequate remedy in
3 the ordinary course of law. It shall be issued upon peti
4 tion and affidavit on the application of the party benefi
5 cially interested.

The writ shall be either alternative or
2 peremptory. The alternative writ shall state generally
3 the allegations against the party to whom it is directed
4 and command such party, immediately after Khe receipt
5 of the writ or at some other specified time. to do the act
6 required to be performend, or to show cause before the
7 court or judge, at a specified time and place, why he has
not done so. The peremptory writ shall be in a similar
9 form, except that the words requiring the party to show
10 cause why he has not done as commanded shall be
11 omitted, and a return day shall be inserted.

When the application to the court or judge
2 is made without notice to the adverse party, and the
3 writ be allowed, the alternative shall be first issued; but
4 if the application be upon due notice, and the writ be
5 allowed, the peremptory writ may be issued in the first
6 instance. The notice of the application when given
7 shall be at least ten days. The writ shall not be granted
8 by default. The case shall be heard by the court or
9 judge, whether the adverse party appear or not.

On the return of the alternative. or the
2 day on which the application of the writ is noticed, or
3 such further day as the court or judge may allow, the
4 party on whom the writ or notice shall have been served.
5 may show cause by answer under oath, made in the
6 same manner as an answer to a complaint in a civil
7 action.

If an answer is made, which raises a
2 question as to a matter of fact essential to the determina
3 tion of the motion, and affecting the substantial rights
4 of the parties, and upon the supposed truth of the
5 allegation on which the application for the writ is based.
6 the court or judge may, in its discretion, order the ques
7 tion to be tried before a jury, and postpone the argument
8 until such trial can be had, and the verdict certified to
9 the court or judge. The question to be tried shall be
10 distinctly stated in the order for trial, and the county
11 shall be designated in which the same shall be had.
12 The order may also direct the jury to assess any damages
13 which the applicant may have sustained in case the;
14 find for him.


On the trial the applicant shall not be
2 precluded by the answer of any valid objection to its
3 sufficiency, and may controvert it by proof, either in
4 direct denial or by way of avoidance.


If either party be dissatisfied with the
2 verdict of the jury, he may move for a new trial upon a
3 statement prepared as provided in the chapter on new
trials of this act. The motion for a new trial may, upon
5 reasonable notice, be brought on before the judge of the
6 court in which the cause was tried, either in term or
7 vacation. If a new trial be granted, the jury shall,
8 within five days thereafter, unless the parties agree on a
9 longer time, be summoned to try the issues. After a
10 second verdict in favor of the same party a new trial
11 shall not be had.

If no notice for a new trial be given, or if
2 given, it be denied, the clerk within five days after the
3 rendition of the verdict or denial of the motion, shall
4 transmit to the court in which the application for the writ
5 is pending, a certified copy of the verdict, attached to
6 the order of trial, after which either party may bring on
7 the argument of the application upon reasonable notice
8 to the adverse party

If no answer be made, the case shall be
2 heard on the papers of the applicant. If an answer be
3 made which does not raise a question such as is men
4 tioned above in this chapter, but only such matters as
5 may be explained or avoided by a reply, the court oi
d judge may, in its discretion, grant time for replying.
7 If the answer, or answer and reply, raise only questions
8 of law, or put in issue immaterial statements not affect!)
ing the substantial rights of the parties, the court or
10 judge shall proceed to hear or fix a day for hearing the
11 arguments of the case.

If the judgment be given for the appli2
cant, he shall recover the damages which he shall have
3 sustained as found by the jury, or as may be determined
4 by the court, judge or referees, upon a reference to be
5 ordered, together with costs, and for such damages and
6 costs an execution may issue and a peremptory mandate
7 shall also follow without delay.

The writ shall be served in the same
2 manner as a summons in a civil action, except when
3 otherwise expressly directed by order of the court or
4 judge.

When a peremptory mandate has been
2 issued and directed to an inferior tribunal, corporation.
3 board or person, if it appear to the court that any mem
4 ber of such tribunal, corporation, board or person upon
5 whom the writ has been personally served, has, with6
out just excuse, refused or neglected to obey the
7 same, the court may, upon motion, impose a fine
8 not exceeding one thousand dollars. In case of a
9 persistence in a refusal of obedience, the court may
10 orderthe party to beimprisoned for a period not exceeding
three months and may make any orders necessary and
12 proper for the complete enforcement of the judgment.


The writ of mandate may also, in the
2 court's discretion, restrain the person or tribunal against
3 whom or which it issued, from doing or exercising any
4 act or acts to prevent the object for which it issues,
5 and to give full effect to the judgment of the court.

The following acts or omissions shall be
2 deemed contempt:
irst—Disorderly, contemptuous or insolent behav4
ior towards the judge whilst holding court or engaged in
5 his judicial duties at chambers, or towards referees or
6 arbitrators, while sitting on a reference or arbitration,
7 tending to interrupt the due course of a trial, reference
8 or arbitration or other judicial proceedings.
Second—A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct,
10 or violent disturbance in the presence of the court, or its
11 immediate vicinity, tending to interrupt the due course
12 of a trial or judicial proceedings.
Third—Disobedience to any lawful writ, order, rule
14 or process issued by the court, or judge at chambers.
Fourth—Disobedience of a subpoena duly served, or
16 refusing to be sworn or answer as a witness.
Fifth—Rescuing any person or property in the cus
tody of an officer by virtue of an order or process of such
19 court or judge at chambers.


When a contempt is committed in the
2 immediate view and presence of the court or judge at
3 chambers, it may be punished summarily, for which an
4 order shall be made reciting the facts as occurring in
5 such immediate view and presence, adjudging that the
6 person proceeded against is thereby guilty of a contempt,
7 and that he be punished as therein prescribed. When
8 the contempt is not committed in the immediate view
9 and presence of the court or judge at chambers, an affi10 davit shall be presented to the court or judge of the facts
11 constituting the contempt, or a statement of the facts by
12 the referees or arbitrators.

When the contempt is not committed in
2 the immediate view or presence of the court or judge, i
3 warrant of attachment may be issued to bring the person
4 charged to answer; or, without a previous arrest, a war5 rant of commitment may, upon notice, or upon an order
6 to show cause. be granted; and no warrant of commit7
ment shall be issued without such previous attachment
8 to answer, or such notice to show cause.

Whenever a warrant of attachment if
2 issued pursuant to this chapter, the court or judge shall
3 direct, by an endorsement on such warrant, that the person
4 charged may be let to bail for his appearance in an
5 amount to be specified in such endorsement.

Upon executing the warrant of attachment,
2 the sheriff shall keep the person in custody, bring him
3 before the court or judge, and detain him until an order
4 may be made in the premises, unless the person arrested
5 entitle himself to be discharged, as provided in the next
6 section.


When a direction to let a person arrested
2 to bail is contained in the warrant of attachment, or
3 endorsed thereon, he shall be discharged from the arrest
4 upon executing and delivering to the officer, at any time
5 before return day of the warrant, a written undertaking,
6 with two sufficient sureties, to the effect that the person
7 arrested will appear on the return of the warrant, and
8 abide the order of the court or judge thereon, or that
9 they will pay, us may be directed, the sum specified in
10 the warrant.


The officer shall return the warrant of
2 arrest and undertaking, if any, received by him from
3 the person arrested, by the return day specified therein.


When the person arrested has been
2 brought up or appeared, the court or judge shall proceed
3 to investigate the charge, and shall hear any answer
4 which the person arrested may make to the same, and
5 may examine witnesses for or against him, for which an
0 adjournment may be had from time to time, if necessary.


Upon the answer and evidence taken, the
2 court or judge shall determine whether the person pro3
ceeded against is guilty of the contempt charged, and if
4 it be adjudged that he is guilty of the contempt, a fine
5 may be imposed upon him, not exceeding five thousand
6 dollars.

When the contempt consists in the omis2 sion to perform an act which is yet in the power of the
3 person to perform, he may be imprisoned until he shall
4 have performed it, and in that case the act shall be
5 specified in the warranT of commitment.

Persons proceeded against, according to
2 the provisions of this chapter, shall also be liable to
3 indictment for the same misconduct, if it be an indict4 able offense, but the court before which a conviction is
5 had on the indictment, in passing sentence, shall take
6 into consideration the punishment before inflicted.


When the warrant of arrest has been
2 returned served, if the person arrested do not appear on
3 return day, the court or judge may issue another war4
rant of arrest, or may order the undertaking to be pros5
ecuted or both. In an action upon the undertaking, the
6 measure of damages in the action shall be the extent of
7 the loss or injury sustained by the aggrieved party, bv
8 reason of the misconduct for which the warrant was
9 issued, and the costs of the proceedings.

Whenever by the provision of this chap2 ter, an officer is required to keep a person arrested on a
3 warrant of attachment in custody, and to bring him
4 before a court or judge, the inability from illness or
5 otherwise of the person to attend shall be a sufficient
6 cause for not bringing him up, and the officer shall not
7 confine a person arrested upon the warrant in a prison or
8 otherwise restrain him of personal liberty, except so
9 far asmay be necessary to secure his personal attendance.


The judgment and orders of the court or
2 judge, made in cases of contempt. shall be final and con3 elusive. The punishment shall be by flue or imprison4
ment, but no fine shall exceed the sum of five thousand
5 dollars.

Every court of this state, every judge or
2 clerk of any court, every justice of the peace, aud every
3 notary public, county clerk, and every officer authorized
4 to take testimony or to decide upon the evidence in any
5 proceeding, shall have power to administer oaths or
6 affirmations.

A witness who desires it may, at his option
2 instead of taking an oath, make his solemn affirmation,
3 or declaration, by assenting when addressed in the fol4
lowing form:
5 You do solemnly affirm that the evidence you shall
6 give in this issue (or matter), pending between
7 and shall be
8 the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.
9 Assent to this affirmation shall be made by answer:
10 "I do."
11 A false affirmation or declaration shall be deemed
12 perjury equally with a false oath.

An affidavit, to be used before any court,
2 judge or officer of this state, may be taken before any
3 judge or clerk of any court, or any justice of the peace
4 or notary public in this state.

Any affidavit taken in another state or
2 territory of the United States, to be used in this state,
3 shall be taken before a commissioner appointed by the
4 governor of this state to take affidavits and depositions
5 in such other state or territory, or before any notary
6 public, or judge or clerk of a court of record having a
7 seal.

An affidavit taken in a foreign country to
2 be used in this state, shall be taken before an ambassa3
dor, minister, or consul of the United States, or before
4 any judge or court of record having a seal in such for5
eign country.

When an affidavit is taken before a judge
2 of a court in another state, or in a foreign country, the
3 genuineness of the signature of the judge, the existence
4 of the court, and the fact that such a judge is a member
5 thereof, shall be certified by the clerk of the court under
6 the seal thereof.

The testimony of a witness in this state
2 may be taken by deposition in an action, at any time
3 after the service of the summons or the appearance of
4 the defendant; and in a special proceeding, after a ques5
tion of fact has arisen therein in the following cases:
First—When a witness is a party to the action or
7 proceeding, or a person for whose immediate benefit the
8 action or proceeding is prosecuted or defended.
Second—When the witness resides out of the county
10 in which his testimony is to be used.
Third—When the witness is about to leave the county
12 where the action is to be tried', and will probably con13
tinue absent when the testimony is required.
Fourth—When the witness, otherwise liable to attend
15 the trial, is, nevertheless, too infirm to attend.
ifth—When the witness is for any other cause
17 expected to be unable to attend the trial.


Either party may have the deposition
2 taken of a witness in this state before any judge or
3 clerk, or any justice of the peace or notary public in
4 this state, on serving on the adverse party previous
5 notice of the time and place of examination, together
6 with a copy of an affidavit of the party, his agent or
7 attorney, showing that the case is one mentioned in the
8 last preceding section. At any time during the forty
9 days immediately after the service of summons by pub10
lication has been completed, and at any time thereafter.
11 when the defendant has not appeared, the notice and
12 affidavit required by this section may be served on the
13 clerk of the court where the action is pending. Such
14 notice shall be at least five days, and in addition, one
15 day for every twenty-five miles of the distance of the
16 place of examination from the residence of the
17 person to whom the notice is given, nnless for a cause
18 shown, a judge, by order prescribe a shorter time.
When a shorter time is prescribed a copy of the order
20 shall be served with the notice.

Either party may attend such examina2
tion, and put such questions, direct and cross, as may be
3 proper. The deposition when completed, shall be care4
fully read to the witness, and corrected by him in any
5 particular, if desired; it shall then be subscribed by the
6 witness, certified by the judge or officer taking the dep7
osition, enclosed in an envelope or wrapper, sealed and
8 directed to the clerk of the court in which the action is
9 pending, or to such person as the parties in writing may
10 agree upon, and either delivered by the judge or officer
11 to the clerk or such person, or transmitted through the
12 mail, or by some safe private opportunity; and there13
upon such deposition may be used by either party upon
14 the trial or other proceeding against any party giving or
15 receiving the notice. subject to all legal exceptions.
16 But if the parties attend at the examination, no objec17
tion to the form of an interrogatory shall be made at the
18 trial, unless the same was stated at the time of the exam19 ination. If the deposition be taken by reason of the
20 absence, or intended absence, from the county, of the
21 witness, or because he is too infirm to attend, proof by
22 affidavit or oral testimony shall be made at the trial that
23 the witness continues absent or infirm, to the best of
deponent's knowledge or belief. The deposition thus
25 taken may also be read in case of the death of a witness.


When a deposition has once been taken,
2 it may be read in any stage of the same action or pro
3 ceeding by either party and shall then be deemed evi4
dence of the party reading it.

The several courts of record of this state
2 shall in all cases have power to compel the attendance of
3 witnesses residing beyond the county in which the court
is held. Provided, That no subpoenas shall be issued5
in any cause to any foreign county, except upon the
6 order of the court in term time, or of the judge thereof
7 in vacation, granted upon showing by affidavit that it is8
necessary to the ends of justice that the witnesses be per9
sonally present at the trial.

Depositions of witnesses in this state may
2 also be taken by the issuing of commissions, with direct
3 and cross-interrogatories attached, in the same manner
4 as provided for taking depositions of witnesses residing.
5 out of the state.

Each and every person authorized,
2 and who may be required to take depositions in any
3 case, shall have power and authority to issue subpoenas
4 and, if necessary, to compel the attendance of all such
5 witnesses as may be named in the commission or by the
6 parties litigant, where no commission is necessary, in
7 the same manner, and under the same penalty as is pro8
vided in other cases where witnesses are directed to
9 be subpoenaed.

The testimony of a witness out of the state
2 may be taken by deposition in an action, at any time
3 after the service of the summons or the appearance of the
4 defendant, and in a special proceeding at any time after
5 a question of fact has arisen therein.

The deposition of a witness out of the
2 state shall be taken upon commission issued by the
3 clerk of the court; under the seal of the court, where the
4 suit is pending on the application of either party, upon
5 five days' previous notice to the other, which notice
6 shall be accompanied by a copy of the interrogatories to
7 be attached to the commission. It shall be issued to a
8 person agreed upon by the parties, or, if they do not
9 agree, to any judge or justice of the peace selected by the
10 officer granting the commission, or to a commissioner
11 appointed by the governor of the state to take affidavits
12 and depositions in other states and territories, or to a
13 notary public. The adverse party may file and have
14 attached to the commission such cross-interrogatories as
15 he may desire.

Such interrogatories, direct and cross, as
2 the respective parties may prepare, may be annexed to
3 the commission, or, when the parties agree to that
4 mode, by written stipulation, the examination may be
5 without written interrogatories.


The commission shall authorize the
2 commissioner to administer an oath to the witness, and
3 to take his deposition in answer to interrogatories, or
4 when the examination is to be without interrogatories,
5 in respect to the question in dispute, and to certify the
6 deposition to the court in a sealed envelope directed to
7 the clerk or other person designated or agreed upon, and
8 forwarded to him by mail or other usual channels of con9
veyance.

A trial or other proceeding shall not be
2 postponed by reason of a commission not returned,
3 except upon satisfactory evidence to the court that the
4 testimony of the witness is necessary, and that proper
5 diligence has been used to obtain it.

All objections, exceptions and motions in
2 respect to depositions, shall be made and disposed of
3 before the trial ; Provided, That objections to the com4
petency, relevancy, or materiality of the testimony
therein, may be reserved and ruled on during the trial.
6 Any party having depositions on file, may, by order of
7 the court or judge, require the opposite' party to file any
8 objections, exception or motion he may have in respect
9 thereto within a reasonable time, or be thereafter pre10 eluded from making the same.


Whenever the deposition of any witness
2 or witnesses is desired to be read in evidence in any
3 cause, in accordance with the provisions of this code,
4 when neither adverse party in such cause, nor his attor5
ney, resides within the limits of this state, after affidavit
6 of such non-residence being filed with the clerk of the
7 court in which the cause is pending, the notices provided
8 for in this chapter, may be given by posting such notices
9 at the door of the court house of the county where the
10 suit is pending, and filing interrogatories, when required
11 by this chapter, in the office of the clerk of said court,
12 at least four weeks prior to suing out a commission, or
13 taking depositions, as the case may be.

Any court in which an action is pending,
2 or a judge thereof, may upon notice, order either party
3 to give to the other within a specified time, an inspec4
tion and copy, or permission to take a copy of any book,
5 document or paper in his possession or under his control,
6 containing evidence relating to the merits of the action
7 or the defense therein. If compliance with the order be
8 refused, the court may exclude the book, document or
9 paper from being given in evidence; or if wanted as
10 evidence, by the party applying, may direct the jury to
11 presume it to be such as he alleges it to be; and the court
12 may also punish the party refusing for a contempt. This
13 section shall not be construed to prevent a party from
14 compelling another to produce books, papers or docu15 ments, when he is examined as a witness.


The shall be no evidence of the contents
2 of a writing other than the writing itself, except in the
3 following cases:
First—When the original has been lost or destroyed,
5 in which case proof of the loss or destruction shall first
6 be made.
Second—When the original is in possession of the
8 party against whom the evidence is offered, and he fails
9 to produce it after reasonable notice.
Third—When the original is a record or other docu11 uient in the custody of a public officer.
Fourth—When the original has been recorded, and a
13 certified copy of the record is made evidence by statute.
Fifth—When the original consists of numerous
15 accounts or other documents which cannot be examined
16 in court without great loss of time and the evidence
sought from them is only the general result of the
18 whole.


The party producing the writing as
2 genuine which has been altered, or appears to have
3 been altered after its execution, in a part material to the
4 question in dispute, and such alteration is not noted on
5 the writing, shall account for the appearance or altera8
tion. He may show that the alteration was made by
7 another without his concurrence, or was made with the
8 assent of the parties affected by it, or otherwise properly
9 or innocently made. If he do that he may give the writ10 ing in evidence, but not otherwise.


A judicial record of this state, or of the
2 United Stales, may be proved by the production of the
3 original, or a copy thereof, certified by the clerk or other
4 person having the legal custody thereof under the seal
5 of the court, to be a true copy of such record.

The records in judicial proceedings of the
2 courts of any other state or territory of the United
3 States, may be proved or admitted in the courts of this
4 state by the attestation of the clerk and the seal of the
5 court annexed, if there be a seal, together with a certifi6
cate of the judge, or presiding magistrate, as the case
7 may be, that said attestation is in due form.

A judicial record of a foreign country
2 may be proved by the production of a copy thereof, certi3
fled by the clerk, with the seal of the court annexed, if
4 there be a clerk and seal, or by the legal keeper of the
5 record with the seal of his office annexed, if there be a
6 seal, to be a true copy of such record, together with a
7 certificate of a judge of the court. that the person mak8
ing the certificate; is the clerk of the court, or the legal
9 keeper of the record, and in either case, that the signa10 ture is genuine, and the certificate in due form; and also,
11 together with the certificate of the minister or ambassa12
dor of the United States, or of a consul of the United
13 States in such foreign country .that there is such a court.
14 specifying generally the nature of its jurisdiction, and
15 verifying the signature of the judge and clerk, or other
16 legal keeper of the record. A copy of the judicial record
17 of a foreign country shall be admissible in evidence upon
18 proof:
First—That the copy offered has been compared by
20 the witness with the original, and is an exact transcript
21 of the whole of it.
Second—That such original was in custody of the
23 clerk of court or other legal keeper of the same; and
Third—That the copy is duly attested by a seal
25 which is proved to be the seal of the court where the
26 records remain, if it be the record of a court, or if there
27 be no such seal, or if it be not the record of a court, by
28 the signature of the legal keeper of the original.

Printed copies in volumes, of statutes,
2 codes or other written law, of any territory or any other
3 state or foreign government purporting or proven to
4 have been published by the authority thereof, or proved
5 to be commonly admitted as evidence of the existing
6 law in the courts and judicial tribunals of such state, ter7
ritory or government, shall be admitted by courts and
8 officers of this state on all occasions as presumptive evi9
dence of such laws.

A seal of a court or public officer when
2 required to any writ, or process, or proceeding, or to
3 authenticate a copy of any record or document, may be
4 impressed with wax, wafer, or any other substance, and
5 then attached to the writ, process or proceeding, or to
6 the copy of the record or document, or it may be
7 impressed on the paper alone.

In actions respecting mining claims, proof
2 shall be admitted of the customs, usages and regulations
3 established and in force in the mining districts embrac^
4 ing such claim; and such customs, usages and regula5
tions, when not in conflict with the laws of this state or
6 of the United States, shall govern the decision of the
7 action.

Whenever any person, company or corpo2
ration shall have any right to, or interest in any mine,
3 lead, lode or mining claim which is in the possession of
4 another person, company or corporation, and for which
a cause is pending in a court of record, bringing into
6 question the right or title to the same, and it shall be
7 necessary, for the ascertainment, enforcement or protec8
tion of such right or interest, that an inspection, exami9
nation or survey of such mine, lead, lode or mining
10 claim should be had or made, or whenever an inspec11
tion, examination or survey of any mine, lead, lode or
12 mining claim shall be necessary to ascertain, protect or
13 enforce the right or interest of any person, company or
14 corporation in another mine, lead, lode or mining claim
15 and the person, company or corporation in possession of
16 such mine, lead, lode or mining claim, of which an in17 spection, examination or survey is necessary, shall
18 refuse, after three days' demand thereof, in writing to
19 allow or permit such inspection, examination or survey
20 to be had or made, the party, company or corporation
21 desiring an inspection, examination or survey of such
22 mine. lead, lode or mining claim, may present to
23 the district court or the judge thereof, of the
24 county wherein the mine, lead, lode or mining claim
25 of which an inspection, examination or survey
26 is desired, is situated, a petition under oath, set27
ting out his or their right to, or interest in, such mine,
28 lead, lode, or mining claim, describing it, the possession
29 thereof, or of another mine, lead, lode or mining claim,
30 of which an inspection, examination or survey is neces31
sary by another company or corporation, the reason why
32 it is necessary that such inspection, examination or sur33
vey should be had or made, the demand made on the
34 person, company or corporation in possession to allow or
35 permit such inspection, examination or survey, and his
36 or their refusal to allow or permit the same, and asking
37 an order for the inspection, examiation or survey of such
38 mine, lead, lode. or mining claim, the court or judge may
39 therenpon appoint a time and place for hearing such
40 petition, and shall order notice thereof to be served on
41 the adverse party, company or corporation, which notice
42 shall be served at least three days before the day of hear43
ing. At the time and place appointed, the court or judge
44 shall proceed to hear the petilion. Either party may
45 read affidavits on the hearing, in the same manner and
46 subject to the same rules, as on the application to dis47
solve an injunction. If the court or judge be satisfied
48 that the facts stated in the petition are true. an order
49 shall be made for an inspection, examination or survey
50 of the. mine. lead, lode, or mining claim in question, in
such manner, at such time, and by such persons as are
52 mentioned in the order. Such persons shall therenpon
53 have free access to such mine, lead, lode, or mining
51 claim for the purpose of such inspection, examination or
55 survey,in conformity with the orderof the court or judge,
56 and any interference with such persons while acting
57 under such order shall be contempt of court, and pun58
ished accordingly; Provided, That only three witnesses
59 beside the surveyor shall be admitted on the part of the
60 petitioner, and the costs of the proceeding shall abide
61 the result of the suit.

The testimony of a witness or witnesses
2 may be taken and perpetuated as provided in this chap3
ter.

The applicant shall present to a district or
2 county judge a petition, verified by the oath of the appli3
cant, stating:
First—That the applicant expects to be a party to an
5 action in a court in this state, and in such case the name
6 of the person or persons whom he expects will be adverse
7 parties; or,
Second—That the proof of some fact or facts is nec9
essary to perfect the title to property in which he is
10 interested, or to establish marriage, descent, heirship or
11 any other matter which may hereafter become material
12 to establish, though no suit may at the time be anticipa13
ted, or if anticipated, he may not know the parties to
14 such suit; and,
Third—The name or names of the witness or wit16 nesses to be examined, and his or their place of residence.
17 and a general outline of the facts expected to be proved.
18 The judge to whom such petition is presented shall make
19 an order allowing the examination and prescribing the
20 notice to be given, which notice, if parties are known to
21 reside in this state, shall be personally served on them;
22 and if unknown, such notice shall be served on the
23 clerk of the county where the property to be affected by
24 such evidence is situated, and notice thereof be pub25
lished in some newspaper to be designated by the judge
26 making the order.


Upon proof of the service of the notice,
2 as provided in the last section, it shall be the duty of the
3 judge, before whom the depositions are taken, to proceed
4 to take the depositions of the witnesses named in said
5 petition upon the facts therein set forth; and the taking
6 of the same may be continued from time to time, in the
7 discretion of the judge.


The examination shall be by question and answer, un2
less the parties otherwise agree. The depositions, when
3 taken, shall be carefully read to and subscribed by the
4 witness, then certified by the judge, and immediately
5 thereafter filed in the office of the clerk of the district
6 court of the county where the same was taken, together
7 with the order for the examination, the petition on
8 which the same was granted, and the proof of service of
9 notice. If any witness whose testimony is desired to be
10 taken and perpetuated is absent from the state, the
11 judge to whom the petition is presented as aforesaid
hall designate in the order some suitable person, by
13 name or otherwise, to take and certify the same; and in
14 such case the person so designated shall take the depo15 sition in manner aforesaid, and certify and return the
16 same to said judge, together with said petition, order
17 and proof of service, and also with his affidavit attached
18 thereto, showing that he has faithfully complied with
19 the requirements of said order; and the same shall
20 immediately thereafter be filed as aforesaid. 

The affidavit, or other proofs filed with
2 the depositions, or certified copies thereof, shall be prima
3 facie evidence of the facts therein stated.

If a trial be had between the parties
2 named in the petition as parties expectant, or their suc3 cessors in interest, or between any parties wherein it
4 may be material to establish the facts which such depo5
sitions prove or tend to prove. upon proof of the death or
6 insanity of the witness or witnesses, or of his or their
7 inability to attend the trial by reason of age, sickness,
8 settled infirmity, or for any other cause, the deposition or
9 depositions, or certified copies thereof, may be used by
10 either party, subject to all legal objections. But if the
11 parties attend at the examination, no objection to the
12 form of an interrogatory shall be made at the trial, unless
13 the same was stated at the examination.

Every direction of a court or judge, made
2 or entered in writing and not included in a judgment, is
3 denominated an order. An application for an order is a
4 motion.

Motions shall be made in the county in
2 which the action is brought, or if at chambers, in any
3 county in the same district. Written notice of motions
4 shall be required in all cases, except those made during
5 the progress of a trial ; Provided, That when a party is
6 a non-resident and absent from the state, and has no
7 attorney resident or present in the state, the court, after
8 acquiring jurisdiction of a cause, may hear and deter9
mine any motion therein, and try and dispose of such
10 cause without notice to such non-resident party or his
11 attorney.

Where the attorneys of both parties, or
2 the parties themselves, reside in the same county, written
3 notice of a motion shall be given twenty-four hours
4 beforethe time appointed for the hearing, otherwise three
5 days actual notice will be given.

When a notice of motion is given, or an
2 order to show cause, is made returnable before a judge out
3 of court, and at the time fixed for the motion, or on the
4 return day of the order, the judge is unable to hear the
5 parties, the matter may be transferred by his order to
6 some other judge before whom it might originally have
7 been brought.

Written notices and other papers, when
2 required to be served on the party or attorney, shall be
3 served in the manner prescribed in the next three sec4
tions when not otherwise provided, but nothing in this
5 title shall be applicable to original or final process, or
6 any proceeding to bring a party into contempt.

The service may be personal, by delivery
2 to the party or attorney on whom the service is required
3 to be made, or it may be as follows :
irst—If upon an attorney, it may be made during
5 his absence from his office by leaving the notice or other
6 papers with his clerk therein, or with a person having
7 charge thereof, or, when there is no person in the office,
8 by leaving them, between the hours of eight in the
9 morning, and six in the afternoon, in a conspicuous
10 place in the office, or if it be not open so as to admit of
such service, then by leaving them at the attorney's res12
idence with some member of his family over the age of
13 fifteen years, and if his residence be not known, then by
14 putting the same, enclosed in an envelope, into the post15
office, postage prepaid, directed to such attorney. 
Second—If upon a party, it may be made by leaving
17 the notice or other paper at his residence, between the
18 hours of eight in the morning and six in the evening,
19 with some member of his family over the age of fifteen
20 years; and if his residence be not known, by putting the
21 same enclosed into the postofflce, postage prepaid,
22 directed to such party.

Service by mail may be made, when the
2 person making the service and the person on whom it is
3 to be made, reside in different places, between which
4 there is a regular communication by mail.

In case of service by mail, the notice or
2 other paper, shall be deposited in the postofflce addressed
3 to the person on whom it is to be served, at his place of
4 residence and the postage paid. And in such case the
5 time of service shall be increased one day for every
6 twenty-five miles distance between the place of deposit
7 and the place of address; Provided, That service in any
8 case shall be deemed complete at the end of forty days
9 from the date of its deposit in the postofflce.

A defendant shall be deemed to appear in
2 an action when he answers, demurs or gives the plaintifff
3 a wri'tten notice of his appearance. After appearance a
4 defendant or his attorney shall be entitled to notice of all
5 subsequent proceedings, of which notice is required to
6 be given. But when a defendant has not appeared, ser7
vice of notice or papers need not be made upon him.

When a plaintifff or a defendant who has
2 appeared resides out of the state, and has no attorney in
3 the action or proceeding, the service may be made on
4 the clerk for him. But in all cases where the party has
5 an attorney in the action or proceeding, the service of
6 papers, when requiredr shall be upon the attorney, or
7 upon the party himself, except of summons, writs and
8 other process issued in the suit and of papers to bring
9 him into contempt, which shall be served on the party.

The clerk shall keep among the records
2 of the court a register of actions; he shall enter therein
3 the title of the action or proceedings, with brief notes
4 under it, from time to time, of all papers filed and pro5
ceedings had therein.

The time within which an act is to be
2 done, as provided in this act. shall be computed by
3 excluding the first day and including the last; if the last
4 day be Sunday or a legal holiday, it shall be excluded.
5 When the act to be done relates to the pleadings in the
6 action, or the undertakings to be filed, or the justifica7
tion of sureties, or the service of notices other than of
8 appeal, or of bills of exceptions, or of amendments
9 thereto, the time allowed by this act may be extended
10 upon good cause shown by the court in which the action
11 is pending, or the judge thereof, or in his absence from
12 the county, by the county judge, but such extension by
13 the county judge shall not exceed thirty days beyond the
14 time prescribed by this act without the consent of the
15 adverse party.

An affidavit, notice, or other paper, with2 out the title of the action or proceeding in which it is
3 made, or with a defective title, shall be as valid and
4 effectual for any purpose as if duly entitled, if it intelli5
gibly refer to such action or proceeding.

An order made out of court, without notice
2 to the adverse party, may be vacated or modified by the
3 judge who made it, on notice in the manner in which
4 other motions are made.

In all cases in courts of record where
2 either party shall except to any ruling, decision or opin3
ion of the court, and shall reduce such exception or
4 exceptions to writing, it shall be the duty of the judge
5 to allow the same, and to sign and seal the same at any
6 time during the term of the court at which such excep7
tions were taken, or at any time thereafter to be fixed
8 by the court, and at any time when any judge shall neg9
lect or refuse to allow and sign and seal such bill of
10 exceptions, then it shall be lawful for the suitor, or his
11 attorney, to make and attach to such bill of exceptions
12 the affidavit of two or more attorneys of the court, or
13 other persons who were present at the time of the trial.
14 and when such exceptions were taken, stating that such
15 bill of exceptions is correct and true; and when such bill
16 of exceptions is so allowed and signed, and sealed by the
17 judge, and so attested and proved by affidavit, it shall
18 therenpon be filed by the clerk, and shall become a part
19 of the record of such cause; Provided, That when a bill
20 of exceptions is sought to be preserved by affidavits, the
21 opposite party shall have timely notice thereof, and may,
22 within a reasonable time thereafter file counter affidavits,
23 and the supreme court shall, upon notice and such proof
24 as may be necessary, determine and settle what is the
25 true bill in that behalf.

Exceptions taken to opinions and decisions of the court
2 upon the trial of causes to a jury, or in which the parties
3 agree that both matters of law and fact may be tried by
4 the court, shall be deemed and held to have been prop5
erly taken and allowed; and the party excepting may
C assign for error before the supreme court, any decision
or opinion so excepted to, whether such exception relates
8 to receiving improper or rejecting proper testimony, or
9 to the final judgment of the court upon the law and
10 evidence, and the appellee or defendant in error may
11 assign cross errors in like manner on the record filed by
12 the appellant or plaintifff in error; which cross errors
13 shall be heard and the decision rendered thereon at the
14 same timethatthe cause is considered on the other errors.
15 The provisions of this section shall apply to causes now
16 pending and not submitted to the court. 

No exceptions need be taken to opinions
2 or decisions of courts of record sustaining or overruling
3 demurrers or written motions affecting or based on the
4 pleadings, or overruling motions in arrest of judgment,
5 motions for new trials or for continuance of causes, or
6 giving, refusing, or modifying instructions; but all
7 such opinions and decisions together with the demurrers,
8 motions and instructions, shall be taken as a part of the
9 record, without being made such by a bill of exceptions.

Appeals to the supreme court from the district, county
2 and superior courts shall be allowed in all cases where
3 the judgment or decree appealed from be final, and shall
4 amount, exclusive of costs, to the sum of one hundred
5 dollars, or relate to a franchise or freehold; Provided,
6 Ruch appeal be prayed for within five days after the time
7 of rendering the judgment or decree; And, provided, The
& party praying for such appeal shall, by himself, or agent.
9 or attorney, give bond with a sufficient surety, to be
approved by the court from which the appeal is taken
11 (or the clerk thereof when the order granting such ap12
peal may so direct), and file in the office of the clerk of
13 the court from which the appeal is taken, within the
14 time limited by the court or judge, which bond shall be
15 in a reasonable sum, sufficient to cover the amount of
16 the judgment appealed from, and costs, conditioned for
17 the payment of the judgment, costs, interest and dam18
ages, in case the judgment shall be affirmed, and also
19 for the due prosecution of the appeal; and the obligee
20 in such bond may, at any time, on a breach of the con21
dition thereof, have and maintain a civil action as on
22 other bonds. The supreme court may, in its discretion,
23 allow defective appeal bonds to be amended. The
24 prayer for appeal may be made to, and the order therefore
25 may be made by, the judge, in vacation, in case the
26 court is not in session during the whole of the five days
27 allowed therefore. 

Whenever the supreme court or court
2 of appeals shall dismiss an appeal for lack of jurisdiction
3 to entertain the same, and it appearing that the court
4 would have jurisdiction if the action had come up on
5 writ of error, the court shall order the clerk, without
6 additional fees, to enter the action as pending on writ of
7 error, and therenpon all the proceedings shall be such
8 as if the action had originally been brought to the court
9 on writ of error; and in such case the court may, upon
10 proper showing, order a supersedeas bond to be filed in
11 place of the appeal bond. 

The appellant shall lodge in the office of
2 the clerk of the supreme court an authenticated copy of
the record of the judgment or decree appealed from, by
4 or before the third day of the next term of said supreme
5 court. Provided, That if there be not thirty days
6 between the time of making the appeal and the sitting
7 of the supreme court, then the record shall be lodged
8 as aforesaid at or before the third day of the next suc9
ceeding term of the supreme court, otherwise the said
10 appeal shall be dismissed, unless further time shaN have
11 been granted by the supreme court for good cause
12 shown.


The supreme court in case of a partial
2 reversal, shall give such judgment or decree as the
3 inferior court ought to have given, or remand the cause
4 to the inferior court for further proceedings, as the case
5 may require.

In all cases of appeals to the supreme
2 court where the appellant shall fail to prosecute the
3 appeal, the supreme court shall, upon dismissal of the
4 appeal, enter judgment against the appellant for not less
5 than five nor more than twenty per cent upon the
6 amount of judgment for damages, in consequence of
7 the delay occasioned by the appeal.

When a bill of exceptions duly signed is
2 filed in the court from which the appeal has been taken,
3 the same may be by the appellant filed in its original
4 form in the appellate court, and when such bill of excep
5 tions seeks to embrace depositions, the same may be
6 done by reference without copying the same in full, and
7 such deposition so referred to, shall thereby become a
8 part of the bill of exceptions, and may be transferred to
9 the files of the supreme court. Deeds and other papers
10 offered in evidence, may be expressed in bills of excep11
tions, by stating their purport and effect, so far as perti12
nent to the decision in the appellate court, and if the
13 parties below fail to agree on the essential parts of
14 such papers, they shall be expressed in substance, or at
15 length, as the judge signing such bill of exceptions shall
16 in his discretion decide.

A motion for a new trial shall not be nec
2 essary to enable the supreme court to review the judg
3 ment and orders of the inferior court. where the matters
4 alleged as errors have once been passed upon by such
5 court against exceptions made at the proper time.

The supreme court may make all rules
2 in regard to the manner of preparing abstracts so as to
3 have the same uniform, and also concerning all other
4 matters of practice or procedure before it, when the same
5 are not inconsistent with the provisions of this act.

The trial court or judge may, in his dis2 cretion, dispense with or limit the security required by
3 this act, when the appellant is an executor, administra4 tor, trustee, or other person acting in another's right.
5 When a municipal corporation is the appellant, the court
6 or judge shall direct a stay of execution after appeal on
7 the motion of the appellant, without filing a supersedeas
8 undertaking.


When a review of the original paper in
2 the action may be important to a correct decision of the
appeal, the court may order the clerk of the court
4 below to transmit the same, which he shall do, in some
5 safe mode to the clerk of the supreme court, who shall
6 hold the same subject to the control of the court.

The dismissal of an appeal may, by order
2 of the court, be made without prejudice to another appeal
3 or writ of error; but unless another appeal or supersedeas
4 be taken or allowed within thirty days after such dismis5
sal, the dismissal of an appeal or writ of error shall ope6
rate as an affirmance of the judgment of the trial court,
7 so as to make the sureties upon the undertaking given
8 by the appellant or plaintifff in error, liable on such
9 undertaking.


In all cases of appeals and
2 writs of error, the supreme court may give final judg3
ment and issue execution, or remand the cause to the
4 lower court, in order that execution may be there issued,
5 or that other proceedings may be had thereon ; and upon
6 appeal from, or error to a. final judgment, judicial pro7
ceedings in the trial court subsequent to such judgment
8 may be reviewed by the supreme court, in like manner
9 and with like effect, as matters occurring prior thereto.

When an appeal or writ of error shall be
2 prosecuted from the judgment of any court of record of
3 this state to the supreme court, and said appeal or writ
4 of error shall be dismissed, or the judgment of the
5 lower court affirmed, it shall be the duty of the clerk of
6 the court from which said appeal or writ of error was
7 prosecuted, upon a copy of the order of the supreme
8 court dismissing said appeal or writ of error, or affirming
9 said judgment, being filed in his office, to issue execu .
10 tion upon said judgment, and to proceed thereon in all
11 respects as though no appeal or writ of error had been
12 prosecuted from said judgment.

In all cases where a judgment or decree
2 shall be rendered in any court of record in any case
3 whatever, either in law or in chancery, against two or
4 more persons, either one of said persons shall be per5
mitted to remove said suit to the supreme court, by
6 appeal or writ of error, and for that purpose shall be
7 permitted to use the names of all said persons, if neces8
sary; but no costs shall be taxed against any person who
9 shall not join in said appeal or writ of error, and all
10 such cases shall be determined in said supreme court as
11 other suits are. and in the same manner as if all the
12 parties had joined in said appeal or writ of error.


A writ of error shall not be brought after
2 the expiration of three years from the rendition of the
3 judgment complained of; but when a person thinking
4 himself aggrieved by any judgment or decree that maj
5 be reviewed in the supreme court, shall be an infant,
6 non compos mentis, or imprisoned when the same was
7 rendered, the time of such disability shall be excluded
8 from the computation of the said three years.

No writ of error shall operate as a super2 sedeas unless the supreme court, or, (if application be
3 made therefore in vacation) some justice of the supreme
4 court, after inspecting a cop^ of the record in the cause,
5 shall order such writ of error to be made a supersedeas,
6 nor until the party applying for such writ shall file a
7 bond in the office of the clerk of the supreme court, with
8 the conditions required in cases of appeals, approved
9 by the court or justice, allowing such order for a super
10 sedeas, or, if such order shall so direct, then by the clerk
11 of some court of record; the clerk issuing such writ of
12 error shall endorse thereon that it shall be a supersedeas.
13 and operate accordingly; and the parties in writs of error
14 shall be subject to the same judgment and mode of exe15
cution as provided in cases of appeal.

Whenever the supreme court shall be
2 equally divided in opinion, on hearing an appeal or writ
3 of error, the judgment of the court below shall stand
4 affirmed.

In all cases in which a writ of error shall
2 be issued, the clerk of the supreme court shall also issue
a scire facias, or summons to hear errors, directed to the
4 sheriff or other officer of the proper county, where the
5 defendant or defendants in error reside or may be found,
6 commanding him to summon the defendant or defendants
7 in error to appear at the next term of the supreme court
8 and show cause, if any he or they have, why the judg9
ment or decree mentioned in the writ of error should
10 not be reversed. If there are several defendants in error
11 residing in different counties, the plaintifff in error may
12 have separate writs issued to each of the counties where
13 such defendants reside.

If the plaintifff in error, or other person
2 for him, shall, at any time, file in the office of the clerk
3 of the supreme court an affidavit. setting forth that
4 the defendant has gone out of the state, so that process
5 cannot be served upon him, or that he is not a resident
6 of this state, or, on due inquiry, cannot be found, or is
7 concealed within this state, or evades service of process,
8 or that process cannot be served on him, it shall be the
9 duty of the clerk to cause publication of notice to such
10 defendant, to be made in some newspaper published in
11 this state, setting forth the pendency of the writ of error,
12 the names of the parties, and the time when scire facias or
13 summons may be returnable, which notice shall be pub
14 lished for four consecutive weeks; and if the first insertion
15 of such notice shall not be at least sixty days before the
16 returndayof the writ of error, the cause shall be continued
17 to the next succeding term of the supreme court, and
18 it shall be the duty of the plaintifff in error, or some one
19 for him, to send, postpaid, by mail, a copy of such notice
20 to the defendant in error, if the place of residence of
21 him shall be known to, or after diligent inquiry, can be
22 ascertained by the plaintifff in error, and upon filing a
certificate of the publication of such notice, made by the
24 publisher of the newspaper in which the same shall be
25 published, together with an affidavit that copies of such
26 notice have been sent to the defendant in error, as herein
27 provided, or that the residence of such defendant is .
28 unknown to, and cannot after diligent inquiry be ascer29
tained by the plaintifff in error, the cause shall proceed
30 as if the defendant had been personally served with
31 process.

Writs of error shall lie from the supreme
2 court to every final judgment of any court of record in
3 this state, and such writs of error shall be amendable
4 (and all writs of error wherein there shall be any variance
5 from the original record, or any other defect may be
6 amended and made agreeable to such record by the
7 respective courts where such writs of error are or shall
8 be made returnable). In all cases of appeal or writs of
9 error from final judgments the original bill of exceptions
10 may be certified without being transcribed to the supreme
11 court.

No writ of error from or appeal to
2 the supreme court shall lie to review the final judg3
ment of any inferior court, unless the judgment, or
4 in replevin the value found, exceeds two thousand
5 five hundred dollars, exclusive of costs; Provided,
6 This limitation shall not apply where the matter in
7 controversy relates to a franchise or freehold, nor
8 where the construction of a provision of the consti9
tution of the state, or of the United States, is neces10 sary to the determination of a case; Provided, further,
11 That the foregoing limitation shall not apply to
12 writs of error to county courts. 

There is hereby established a court which
2 shall have appellate jurisdiction only, and which
3 shall be called the court of appeals. Said court
4 shall consist of three judges, who shall possess the
5 qualifications required of judges of the supreme
6 court. 

Immediately upon the taking effect of
2 this act the governor shall nominate, and by and with
3 the consent of the senate, appoint one judge for the
4 term of two years; one for the term of four years; and
5 one for the term of six years, and biennially thereafter
6 he shall in like manner appoint one judge for the term
7 of six years. The term of office shall begin on the first
8 Wednesday of April next after each regular meeting of
9 the legislature. The judge having the shortest term to
10 serve, not having been appointed to fill a vacancy, shall
11 be the president of the court. Vacancies shall be filled
12 in the same manner as original appointments are
13 required to be made; Provided, That where such
14 vacancies occur during the recess of the senate, the
15 governor shall 1311 the same by appointment until the
16 next meeting of the senate. when he shall nominate
17 some person to fill such office. 

The said court shall have jurisdiction —
2 First—To review the final judgments of inferior
3 courts of record in all civil cases and in all criminal
4 cases not capital.
5 Second—It shall have final jurisdiction, subject to
6 the limitations stated in subdivision three of this
7 section, where the judgment, or in replevin the value
8 found, is two thousand five hundred dollars or less.
9 exclusive of costs.
10 Third—It shall have jurisdiction not final in cases
11 where the controversy involves a franchise or free12 hold, or where the construction of a provision of the
constitution of the state or of the United States is
14 necessary to the decision of the case; also, in criminal
15 cases, or npon writs of error to the judgments of county
16 courts. Writs of error from or appeals to, the court of
17 appeals shall lie to review final judgments within the
18 same time and in the same manner as is now or may
19 hereafter be provided by law for such reviews by the
20 supreme court. 

Any cause now pending in the supreme
2 court within the jurisdiction of the court of appeals
3 may by order of the supreme court. upon notice to the
parties or their attorneys of record, be transferred to
5 the court of appeals for determination, unless objection
6 to such transfer be interposed within thirty days after
7 service of the notice aforesaid. 

The court of appeals shall have power
2 to adopt rules regulating the procedure therein in the
3 same manner and with like effect as the supreme court;
4 Provided, That such procedure shall be so far similar
5 to that of the supreme court as in the judgment of the
6 judges of the said court of appeals may be practicable.

The court of appeals may issue all
2 necessary and proper writs and other processes in
3 causes within its jurisdiction in the same manner am1
4 with the same effect as the supreme court. It shall be
5 a court of record and have a seal. 

Opinions shall be delivered as may be
2 required of the supreme court, and may be published
3 in like manner and in separate volumes. The reporter
4 of the supreme court shall be the reporter of the court
5 of appeals, and shall receive for his services as reporter
6 for both of said courts the sum of three thousand dol7
lars per annum. 

The judges of the court
2 of appeals shall appoint a suitable person to serve as
3 clerk of said court at a salary of three thousand dollars
4 per annum, which salary shall be paid monthly out of
5 the general fund of the state in the same manner as
6 other salaries are paid, and shall be in full for any addi7
tional clerical services required by said clerk. He shall
8 perform the duties similar to those devolving upon the
9 clerk of the supreme court. The clerk of such court.
10 before entering upon the duties of his office, shall take
11 and subscribe a proper oath and give bond in the sum
12 of not less than five thousand dollars, and with one or
13 more sureties to be approved by the judges of such
14 court for the faithful performance of his duties and that
15 he will duly pay over and account for all monies that
16 may come into his hands. 

Fees shall be fixed in said court in the
2 same manner as in the supreme court, and all fees
3 shall be paid into the state treasury. 

The judges of the court of appeals shall
2 each receive an annual salary of five thousand dollars.
3 to be paid in the same manner as the salaries of judges
4 of the supreme court. 

It shall be the duty of the secretary of
2 state to provide the court and judges thereof with
3 suitable rooms, stationery, fuel and other things in
4 like manner as the supreme court and judges thereof
5 are provided. 

The judges of said court may employ .'
2 bailiff and janitor and such stenographic and clerical
assistance as they may need, who shall be paid in the
4 same manner as such employes are paid in the supreme
5 court; Provided, That the aggregate sum so paid shall
6 not exceed the sum paid by the supreme court for such
7 assistance. 

Terms of court shall be held at the capita)
2 at such times as may be fixed for the terms of the
3 supreme court. 

Writs of error from or appeals to the
2 supreme court shall lie to review every final judgment
3 of the court of appeals in cases which, under this act.
4 might have been taken for review to the supreme court
5 in the first instance. Such writs of error shall be sued
6 out or appeals taken within sixty days after the rendi
7 tion of the final judgment, and not thereafter. Any
8 case in the court of appeals not within the final juris
9 diction thereof shall be transferred to the supreme
10 court upon motion of a defendant in error or appellee,
11 made within such time as such party may be by law
12 or rule of court required to file a brief in the case, and
13 such case shall be for hearing in the supreme court th(
14 same as if originally taken there, and all bonds or othei
15 obligations shall remain in full force and effect. When
16 any such case is taken to the supreme court, all plead
17 ings, abstracts, papers, briefs and other things per18
taining to the case shall be transferred to the supreme
19 court, and new briefs and abstracts shall not be required
20 except by special rule in particular cases. Appeals
21 shall be perfected and writ of error made a supersedeas
22 in the same manner and under the same conditions as
23 in cases brought from other courts. 

All acts and parts of acts inconsistent
2 -with this act are hereby repealed. 

Whereas, an emergency exists; this act
2 shall take effect and be in force from and after its
3 passage. 

The supreme court and other courts of
2 record shall respectively have power to make rules
and regulations for governing their practice and pro4 cedure, in reference to all matters not expressly provided
5 for by law.

In vacation, at chambers, the judges of courts
2 of record, in their respective districts and counties, may
hear and determine any and all motions and demurrers;
4 may, upon good cause shown, enlarge the time to answer.
5 to reply or demur; may make and direct any and all
C interlocutory orders, rules or other proceedings prepara7 tory to the trial and disposition of causes on the merits,
8 in the same manner and with the like effect as the said
9 courts could direct or make the same in term time, rea10
sonable notice of the application for such rule or order
11 being first given to the adverse party or his attorney;
12 and it shall be the duty of the district judges each in
13 his own district, by general rule. to prescribe the time or
14 times and place or places at which motions and demur15
rers, in actions pending in his district, may be brought
16 on for hearing in vacation.


The judges of any court of record shall
2 have power, in any part of the state, and the justices of
3 the peace within their respective counties, shall have
4 power to take and certify:
First—The proof and acknowledgment of a convey6
ante of real property, or any other instrument required
7 to be proved or acknowledged.
8 Second—An affidavit to be used in any court of jus9
tice in this state.

No action or proceeding in a court o'
2 justice in this state shall be affected by a vacancy in the
3 office of all or any of the judges, or by a failure of a
4 term thereof.

Every written proceeding in a court of
2 justice in this state, or before a judicial officer, shall
3 be in the English language. but such abbreviations as
4 are now commonly used in that language, may be used.
5 and numbers expressed by figures or numerals, in tht
6 customary manner.

Each of the following courts shall have
2 a seal and shall be courts of record:
3 First—The supreme court.
4 Second—The district courts.
5 Third—The county courts.
6 Fourth —Any court established by law and expressly
7 denominated a court of record.

The clerk of each court of record shall
2 keep the seal thereof.


The seal may be fixed by impressing it
2 upon the paper, or on a substance attached to the paper
3 and capable of receiving the impression.

The courts of justice may be held, and
2 judicial business may be transacted, on any day ex3
cept as provided in the next section.

No court shall be opened, nor shall any
2 judicial business be transacted, on Sunday, New Year's
3 day, Fourth of July, Christmas day, Washington's birlh
4 day, Thanksgiving day, Fast day, Decoration day or on
5 the day of a general election, except for the following
6 purposes:
First—To give, upon their request instruction to a
8 jury then deliberating on their verdict.
Second—To receive a verdict, or discharge a jury.
Third—For the exercise of the powers of a magistrate
11 in a criminal action, or in a proceeding of a criminal
12 nature.
Fourth—When it shall appear by the affidavit of the
14 plaintifff, or some one in his behalf, in cases for the
15 recovery of specific personal property, that the defend
16 ant is about to conceal, dispose of, or remove such prop
17 ert}' out of the jurisdiction of the court, an order for
taking possession of the same may be issued and the
19 writ or process executed on any day.
Fifth—When an application for a writ of attachment
21 is made, if it shall appear by the affidavit of the plain22
tiff, or some one in his behalf, that the defendant is
23 about to dispose of, conceal or remove property subject
24 to execution or attachment, out of the jurisdiction of
25 the court, a writ of attachment may be issued and
26 executed on any day. When the day fixed for the
27 opening of a court shall fall on any of the days men28
tioned in this section, the court shall stand adjourned
29 until the next succeeding day.

When, on the
2 day appointed for the commencement of any term of the
3 supreme, district, county or other court of record of this
4 state, the judge of sueh court is not present to hold the
5 same, and whenever it shall happen, during any term of
the court, that the judge thereof shall fail to appear to
7 open said court in pursuance of any adjournment made at
8 that term, the clerk of such court shall adjourn the same,
9 from day to day, until the expiration of one week, noting
10 such adjournment in the minutes each day,andif the judge
11 or judges of such court be not present to hold such'term
12 on the day, one week from the day appointed for suci
13 term to commence, or at the time to which such adjourn14
ment was made, the clerk shall adjourn the court for the
15 period of one week from that day to the hour of ten o'clock
16 a. m. and shall immediately notify the governor, of the
17 failure of the judge to appear, and it shall be the duty of
18 the governor to forthwith appoint, in writing, one of the
19 judgesof the supreme court, to hold the remainder of said
20 term unlessthe governor is satisfied that no real necessity
21 exists requiring him so to do. If the judge or judges
22 shall appear on any day to which the court has been
23 adjourned by the clerk as above provided, the court shall
24 proceed in the same manner and with the same effect as
25 if the judge or judges had been present, and the court had
26 been regularly opened on the day appointed for the term
27 to commence. 

Every court of record shall sit at the
2 county seat of the county in which it is held, except as
3 may be otherwise provided by law.

In an action brought against a sheriff for
2 an action done by virtue of his office, if he give written
3 notice thereof to the sureties on any bond of indemnity
4 received by him, the judgment recovered therein shall
5 be sufficient evidence of his right to recover against such
6 sureties; and the court or judge in vacation, may, on
7 motion, upon notice of five days, order judgment to be
8 entered up against them for the amount so recovered,
9 including costs.

Words used in this act in the present tense
2 shall be deemed to include the future as well as the pres
3 ent; words used in the singular number shall be deemec
4 1o include the plural, and plural the singular; and
5 words used to include the masculine gender shall include
6 the feminine gender; writing shall be deemed to include
7 printing or printed paper; oath to include affirmation or
8 declaration; signature or subscription to include mark.
9 when the person cannot or is unable to write, his name
10 being written near it and witnessed by a person who
11 writes his own name as a witness.

In all cases where an undertaking, by the
2 provisions of this act, is required, it shall be the duty of
3 the person taking the same to use due diligence in ascer4
taining the responsibility of the person becoming surety.
5 and to require each of the sureties to accompany the
6 same with affidavit that he is worth the sum specified in
7 the undertaking, over and above his just debts and lia8
bilities, in property not exempted by law from execution;
9 Provided, That when the amount specified in the under
10 taking exceeds one thousand dollars and there are more
11 than two sureties thereon, they may state, in their affi12
davits that they are severally worth amounts less than
13 that expressed in the undertaking, if the whole amount
14 be equivalent to the sum specified in the undertaking.

A copy of any record, or document, or
2 paper, in the custody of a public officer of this state, or
3 of the United States, within this state, certified under
4 the official seal, or verified by the oath of such officer, to
5 be a true, full and correct copy of the original in his
6 custody, may be read in evidence in an action or pro
7 ceeding in the courts of this state, in the like manner.
8 and with the like effects, as the original could be if pro
9 duced.

All decisions given upon an appeal upon
2 questions of law only, in any appellate court in this
3 state, shall be given in writing with the reasons therefore,
4 and filed with the clerk of the court.

On the trial of any action in a court of
2 record, at the request of either party, the court may, in
3 its descretion, appoint a competent person to take down
4 testimony in writing.

Whenever costs are awarded to a party by
2 an appellate court. such party may have an execution for
3 the same on filing a remittitur with the clerk of the court
4 below, and it shall be the duty of such clerk, whenever
5 the remittitur is filed, to issue the execution on applica
6 tion therefore. And whenever costs are awarded to a
7 party by an order of any court. such party may have an
8 execution therefore in like manner as upon a judgment.

The sittings of every court of justice shall
2 be public except as provided in the next section.


On the trial of any action, upon the sug2 gestion to the court by any counsel engaged therein
3 that the evidence to be adduced in such action will be
4 of such character that unnecessary publicity would
5 operate injuriously on the public morals, it shall be the
6 duty of the court to exclude from attendance on said
trial all persons not officers of the court or connected
8 with such case in any manner.


Every court shall have power:
2 First—To preserve and enforce order in its imme
3 diate presence.
4 Second—To enforce order in the proceedings before
5 it, or before a person or persons empowered to conduct a
6 judicial investigation under its authority.
7 Third—To compel obedience to its lawful judgments,
8 orders and process, and to the lawful orders of its judge
D out of court in action or proceeding pending therein.
10 Fourth —To control, in furtherance of justice, the
11 conduct of its ministerial officers.

A judge shall not act as such in any of
2 the following cases: In an action or proceeding to which
3 he is a party, or in which he is interested; when he is
4 related to either party by consanguinity or affinity in the
5 third degree; or when he has been attorney or counsel
6 for either party in the action or proceeding, unless by
7 consent of all parties to the action.


A judge of a court of record shall not act
2 as attorney or counsel in any court or any cause.

A judge or justice of the peace shall not
2 have a partner acting as attorney or counsel in any court
3 in his judicial district, county or precinct, nor shall any
4 county, district or supreme judge inake out the papers
5 in any action to be tried before his court.

If an application for an order made to a
2 judge of a court in which the action or proceeding is
3 pending, be refused in whole or in part. or be granted
4 conditionally no subsequent appjication for the same
5 order shall be made to any other judge. except of a
6 higher court; Provided. That nothing in this section
hall be so construed as to apply to motions refused for
8 any informalities in the papers or proceedings necessary
9 to obtain an order.

A violation of the last section may be
2 punished as a contempt, and an order made contrary
3 thereto may be revoked by the judge who made it, or
4 vacated by the judge of a court in which the action or
5 proceeding is pending.

The court(2
and judges thereof shall have power to issue all writs
3 necessary and proper to the complete exercise of the power
4 conferred on them by the constitution and laws of this
5 state. The district courts and judges thereof shall have
6 authority in ne exeat proceedings according to the
7 usual practice in such cases in courts of chancery.


The terms shall be held at such times and
2 places as provided by law. If a room for holding the
3 court be not provided by the county, together with
4 attendants, fuel, lights and stationery, suitable and
5 sufficient for the transaction of business, the court may
6 direct the sheriff to provide such room, attendants, fuel
7 lights and stationery, and the expense shall be a county
8 charge.

The judges or courts of records shall, at
2 all reasonable times, when not engaged in holding
3 courts, transact such business at their chambers as may
4 be done out of court. At chambers they may hear
5 and dispose of all applications for orders and writs
6 which are usually granted in the first instance upon ex
7 parte application, and may in their discretion also heai
8 applications to discharge such orders and writs.

When an action or proceeding is com2
menced in a district court in which a county court has
3 concurrent jurisdiction, the district court may, if the par4
ties agree, by order, transfer the same to the county court
5 of the same county. When an action or proceeding is
6 commenced in a county court, the county court, if the
7 parties agree, may, by order, transfer the same to the dis8 trict court of the same county. Upon such transfer, the
9 court to which such cause is removed shall have and
10 exercise over such action or proceeding the same juris
11 diction as if originally commenced therein.

If the county judge be disqualified for
2 any cause from sitting on the determination of any action
or proceeding pending before him, the cause shall be
4 certified, with the original papers, to the district court
5 of the same county, which shall proceed thereon to final
6 judgment and determination.

All judges of courts of record shall be
2 conservators of the peace.


In all civil actions within their jurisdic2 tion, the county courts and the judges thereof, shall
3 have the same power to grant all orders, and writs, and
4 process, which the district courts or the judges thereof,
5 have power to grant within their jurisdiction, and to
6 hear and determine all questions arising within their
7 jurisdictions as fully and completely as the district
8 courts or the judges thereof, have power to do under the
9 laws of this state, except as otherwise provided in this
10 act.


The service of any subpoena in any of the
2 courts of record in this state may be made by any person of
3 full age not a party to the action or proceeding. Proof
4 of service so made shall be by the affidavit of the person
5 making the same, showing the time, place and manner
6 in which, and the person upon whom such service shall
7 have been made.


In the construction of this act the follow
2 ing rules shall be observed when consistent with the
3 context: The word "sheriff" means the sheriff of the
4 county, or any person authorized to perform his duties
5 in any case. The word "clerk" means the clerk of the
6 court, or any person authorized to perform his duties in
7 any case. The phrase of "unsound mind" includes
8 idiots, non compos mentis, lunatics and distracted per9 sons. The word "oath" includes the word affirmation,
10 and the phrase "to swear" includes to affirm. The
11 word "person" extends to bodies, politic and corporate.
12 The phrase "under legal disabilities" includes infants
13 and persons of unsound mind, or imprisoned or out of
14 the United States. The word "bond" or "under
15 taking," as used in this act, does not necessarily imply
16 a seal, but in other respects means the same kind of
17 instruments as heretofore. The word "land" and th(
18 phrases "real estate" and "real property" includes lands
19 tenements and hereditaments. The phrase "personal
20 property" includes goods, chattels, evidence of debt, and
21 things in action. The word "property" includes per
22 sonal and real property. The word "judgment" means
23 all final orders, decrees and determinations in an action ;
24 also all orders upon which executions may issue. The
25 phrase "money demands on contracts." when used in
reference to an action, means any action arising out of
27 contract, where the relief demanded is a recovery of
28 money only. The word "attorney" includes a coun29 sellor, and every other person authorized to appear and
30 represent a party in action, or special proceeding in any
31 stage thereof. The word "verified," when applied to
32 pleading, means supported by oath or affirmation. The
33 provisions of this act shall be liberally construed, and
34 shall not be limited by any rules of strict construction

The rule of the common law, that statutes
2 in derogation thereof, are to be strictly construed, has
3 no application to this code. Its provisions, and all pro
4 eeedings under it. shall be liberally construed, with a
view to promote its object and assist the parties in
6 obtaining justice.

The following acts, passed by the general
2 assembly of the state of Colorado, are hereby repealed
£ except so far as they are re-enacted by this act, viz
"An act providing a system of procedure in civil actions
5 in the courts of justice of the state of Colorado.''
6 Approved March 17, 1877, and also all acts expressly
7 amendatory thereof. Also, "An act concerning garnish
8 ment in courts of record and before justices of the peace,
9 on judgments rendered; and in relation to the proceed10 ings and practice in garnishment." Approved February
11 21, 1879, so far as the same relates to courts of record.
12 Also, "An act concerning referees appointed by courts
13 of record, and the practice before them." Approved
14 April 10, 1885. "An act in relation to appeals to the
15 supreme court, and concerning the jurisdiction thereof,
16 and practice therein." Approved April 23, 1885, and
17 all other acts, or parts of acts, in conflict with the pro
18 visions of this act; Provided, That the repeal of such
19 acts, and parts of acts, or any of them, shall not be con20
strued to abate or affect any suit, action or proceeding,
21 instituted or pending in any court of this state, or other
22 tribunal begun prior to the first day of August, 1887,
23 under any of the laws so repealed; but all such suits,
24 actions or proceedings may be prosecuted to final deter25
mination under the laws so repealed, neither shall the
26 repeal of any such law, or parts, in anywise affect, deny,
27 abridge, divest or impair any right or cause of action.
28 accrued or arising under the laws hereby repealed; but
29 such right. action or cause of action, accrued or arising,
30 shall be brought and prosecuted to final determination
31 under the laws so repealed unless the provision of this
32 code give a remedy or prescribe a mode whereby such
33 right, action or cause of action may be brought and pros34
ecuted to final determination.

In the opinion of the general assembly
2 an emergency requires this act to take effect at a time
3 later than ninety days after the session, thereforee this act
4 shall take effect and be in force on and after the first day
5 of August, 1887.



