TITLE I.

AN ACT‘ FOR THE REGULATION OF ‘CIVIL ACTIONS.

 

CHAPTER I.

OF PROCESS.

Be itenacted lrytheSenate aMEww¢R 
in General Assembly convened .° 68’

Sncnon 1. That the process in civil actions shall be by
summons or attachment, in writing; that the writ shall describe the parties and the court, and mention the time and
place of appearance; shall be accompanied with a declaration contalni the cause of action, and shall be signed by
the governor, °eutenant- vemor, a senator, judge, ustice
of the peace, or clerk of e court to which it is returnable.

Attachments may be ted against the goods and chattels of the defendant, an for want thereof, against his lands,
or ainst his person when not exem t from im risonment
on t e execution in the suit. When e plainti prays out
an attachment, a sufficient bond shall be given, conditioned
to prosecute his action to effect and answer all damages in
case he make not his plea good; and if it shall appear to the
authority si 'ng the writ that he is unable to pay the cost
of the suit, i a recovery should be had against him, then he
shall procure a surety in such bond of prosecution. If the I
plaintifff is not an inhabitant of this state, or if an inhabitant
of this state and it appears to the authori signing the writ
that he is unable to pay the cost of the smt, it a recovery is
had against him, then, whether the suit be a summons or attachment, he shall procure surety, in a bond, from some substantial inhabitant of this state, to prosecute his action to effect,
and answer all damages in case e make not his plea good.*

SE01‘. 2. A bond for prosecution may be taken in the

A form following, viz :

You, C. S. and E. C. of H., acknowledge yourselves
jointly and severally bound to J. L., of in a recognizance of dollars, that T. R. of W. shall prosecute
the attachment he hath now taken out against the said J. L.
at the next county court, to be holden at H. on the
Tuesday of next, to full effect, and answer all costs
and dam es in case he make not his lea good. Taken and
acknowle ged in H. the . day 0? &c. Before
me, J. W., justice of the peace.

SECT. 3. All rocess by attachment or summons shall be
directed to the s eriff, his deputy, a constable, or some indifferent person, but no writ of attachment or summons shall
be directed to an indifferent person unless more defendants
than one are therein named, and described to be of different
counties in the state, or unless, in case of a writ of attachment, the plaintifff, or one of the plaintifffs, if there be more
than one, or his or their agent or attorney, shall make an
affidavit respecting the writ in the words followin : “ You
solemnly swear (or ailirm) that you verily believe e laintiff is (or laintiffs are, as the case may be) in danger of osing
the debt glamage or other thing, as the case ma be) in this
writ unless an indifferent person shall be depute for the immediate service of the same; so help you God ;” which oath
the authority signing such writ is empowered to administer,
and shall certify on the writ that he administered the same,
and said authority shall insert in the writ the name of the
indifferent person to whom it is directed, but need not insert
the reason of such direction; and if any writ of attachment
or summons shall be directed to an indifferent person, except in the cases and under the regulations above mentioned,
the same shall abate.* _

Saar. 4. On writs of scire facias, in which execution
may issue against the property, or person and property, of
the defendant, the process may be by attachment, to be
proceeded with as to bail, and in all respects, as in other
Writs of attachment.

SECT. 5. The sheriff, by writing on the back of the writ,
may depute any proper person, on any special occasion, to
serve the same, who, after service thereof, shall make oath
before a justice of the peace that he faithfull and truly
served the same according to his indorsement t ereon, and
that he did not fill up said writ, nor give direction to any

person to fill up] the same, and such justice of the eace
shall certify on t e writ that he administered said oat accordin ly, and thereupon the service thereof shall be good
and v 'd.*

Slim. 6. All writs and processes returnable to a justice.
of the peace shall be made returnable within thirt days:
from and after the day of service thereof. And 1 suchl
writs and processes made returnable for a longer period,
than thirty days shall be utterly void.

Sncr. 7. All civil rocess, issued or served between the
rising and setting of t e sun on the Sabbath or Lord’s day,l
shall be void. .'

Sncr. 8. Writs by attachment or summons may be in
the forms following, viz:

Summons for appearance before a justice of the peace.

To the sheriff of the county of H., his de uty, or either of
the constables of the town of G., wi '11 said county,
greeting:

By authority of the state of Connecticut, ou are hereby
commanded to summon A. B. of G. aforesai , to appear before J. H., Esq., justice of the eace for the county aforesaid, at in H. on &e day of
at of the clock in the noon, then and there to
answer to C. D. of W. in a plea of which is to the
damage of the said O. D. dollars, and he thereforee
brings this suit. And of this writ with your doings therein
make due return. Dated at H. the day of

Attachment before a justice of the peace.
To the sheriff, &c.

By authority of the state of Connecticut, you are hereb 1
commanded to attach the goods or estate of A. B. of .‘
aforesaid, to the value of dollars [and for want thereof
to attach the body of the said A. B., if he may be found in
your precincts, and him safely keep so that he may be had,]
or and him summon to appear] before J. H. Esq., 'ustice
of t e peace for the county aforesaid, at s cient
bond for prosecution being 'ven. Hereof fail not, and make
due return of this writ WEE] your doings therein, &c.

Dated, &c.

The like forms may be used for summons and attachments
returnable to the county and superior courts.

f
3

Sscr. 9 In all suits instituted in the name of a jud of
probate as such, the writ, at the time of being issued, s be
mdorsed by some responsible inhabitant of this state, and
such indorser shall be liable for the costs of suit, in case of
judgment for the defendant, and judgment shall be rendered
and execution issued, for such costs, against him, and not
against the judge of probate. _

Sum‘. 10. Such indorsement may be in the following
form: “ I agree to be responsible for the costs in this suit,
and shall be subscribed by the indorser. _

SE01‘. 11. If the indorser shall die, or remove out of this

:state, a new indorser on such writ shall be substituted, and

the court before whom the suit is pending, may, at any time,
order the substitution of a new indorser, to be ap roved by
the court, and such new indorser shall indorse e writ in
the same manner, and be liable for the costs from the commencement of the suit in the same manner as the original
indorser.

SE01‘. 12. If the writ shall not be so indorsed at the
time of being issued, it shall be void, and if, u on the order
of the court, such new indorser shall not be su tituted, the
plaintifff shall, on motion, be nonsuited.

CHAPTER II.

OF THE SERVICE OF PROCESS.

Srwr. 13. All writs and processes, returnable to the sureme court of errors, shall be served at least thirty da s
fore the day of the sitting of the court; and if before e
superior court or county court, at least twelve days inclusive before said day; and if returnable to a justice of the
peace, at least six ays inclusive; or if a communi or corporation shall be defendant, at least twelve days mclusive
as aforesaid, or the defendant shall not be bound to make
answer thereto.*
Sncr. 14. A summons shall be served b the oiTicer’s
reading the same in the hearing of the defendyant or defendants, or by leaving an attested copy thereof at the place or

[SEc'r. 1. When any real estate is attached, the oiiicer

{servin the writ shall leave a true and attested co y thereof, an a description of the estate attached, at t e town
clerk’s office, in the town where the estate lies, within four
days next after attaching the same, and before the time
limited by law for the service of the writ expires, and unless the service shall be so com leted, such estate shall not
be holden against any other cre 'tor or bona-tide urchaser ;
provided; that this act shall not affect any attac ent lien
now existing.

Sscr. 2. So much of the 14th section of the act to which
this is an addition, as limits twenty-four hours after the attachment of such estate as the time within which such co y
shall be left at the town-clerk’s oiiice as aforesaid, is here y

repealed.]

SI-JCT. 15. No attachment, in any suit against a co arti‘ nership, of the private estate of any of its members, sha be
_ valid, unless the name of such member shall be set forth in
the writ at the time of the attachment.
._ SECT. 16. The rights or shares which any person may
own in the stock of any bank, insurance com any, turnpike
company, or other corporation, together wit the interests,
rents and profits, due and growing due thereon, shall be
liable to be attached, in any action, and levied upon and
sold to satisfy an judgment and execution; and the attachment of any suc rights or shares shall be made, by leavin a true and attested copy of the writ, with the proper
in orsement thereon of the officer servin the same, as in
other cases, with the defendant, or at is usual place of
abode, if within this state, and with the cashier of such bank,
or with the secretary or clerk of such other corporation, or
if such bank has no cashier, or such other corporation has
no secretary or clerk, or he is absent out of this state, then
at the bankin house, toll house, manufacturing house, or
other principa place, in this state, where such corporation
transact their business or exercise their corporate powers;
and such rights or shares, together with the interest, rents,
and profits, shall be holden to res ond the judgment which
may be recovered in said action, ‘or the term of sixty days
after the rendering thereof, and no longer; and whenever
an officer with a Writ of attachment, shall apply to such
cashier, secretary, or clerk, for the purpose of attachin
such rights or shares, the cashier, secretary, or clerk, sh
furnish him with a certificate, under his hand, in his ofiicial
capacity, specifying the number of ri hts or shares which
the defendant holds in the stock of suc bank, or other corporation, with the encumbrances thereon, if any there be,
and the amount of dividends thereon due.* j
SE01‘. 17._ In suits against towns, societies, communities, ;
or corporations, the service of the writ, by the officer leav-3
ing a true and attested copy of the same with their clerk,
or either of the selectmen, or of the committee, or the secaekary] or cashier,hor, in gie case ofha prilvate (jot iiaticip, if
ey ave no suc secre ry or cas ier en a e an in
house, toll-house, manufacturing house, or other principa
lace in this state where such corporation transact their
business or exercise their corporate powers, shall be suiiicient
notice for theérri to agpear and ans_wer.+ _ _ h
it§’§°§é $3; stalieenande li1a:f:Isl:1aa1;:twsi1llli(ihath:sls(:.$IIl: ‘$51.’i'Zt“‘§; i
attached, a copy’of the writ describing the estate shall be!
left by the officer with the agent or attorney of the defend-'
ant within this state ° and when land is attached a like
co y shall be left in tlie oilice of the town clerk of the town
W er_e the land lies, as in cases where the defendant belongs
t°~:::~“ as 3:1‘; lithe  ‘mm sat’ 
W! in iss enaiecopysa eewi m
who has the charge or possession of the estate attached.
SE01‘. 19. N o estate, attached as aforesaid, shall be held
to res ond the judgment obtained by the laintiff at whose]
em’: t eiosgipe is at1.tached,he.itl&er agitinrsgdiitg dlt-:b{i)l1‘:a(1){l' any;.
0 erc ior unesssuc ju gmen c rsa eon
execution on such judgment, and have the same levied on
goods or rsonal estate, within sixty days after final judgment sha 1 have been obtained, or on real estate, and have
the same appraised and recorded within four months, after
such judgment, or if said goods or estate are incumbered
by any prior attachment, unless execution shall be levied as

_its nature perishable, or being

aforesaid, within the respective times aforesaid, after such
encumbrance is removed.*

SECT. 20. All attachments, levied on the machinery,
engines, or implements, situated in and used by any manufacturing or mechamcal establishment, or upon the household furniture of any person having a family, and used b
him in housekeeping, or_ on the hay deposited in any buil ing, in which levy and in the return of the officer making
the same, the said machine , en nes, im lements, furniture, ‘or hay, shall be particiillrly escribe , shall hold the
same, without any removal thereof, as effectually as if the
same were real estate; provided that the service of said
attachment shall be made and com leted, and a copy thereof, with the officer’s return by_ in made thereon and
attested, shall be lodged on file in the oiiice of the town
clerk of the town in which said machine , en 'nes, implements, furniture, or hay, shall be situate , wit ' twentyfour hours after said attachment shall have been made, and
that when the levy is upon hay situated as aforesaid, the
officer shall also give notice of such levy by postin up a
notincation thereof on the outer door of the buil ing in
which such ha is situated.

SEOT. 21. actions on oint contracts, if all the defendants are not inhabitants of this state, the service of the process upon such as are inhabitants of this state shall be sufficient notice to maintain the suit against all the defendantssf

SECT. 22. All process, if returnable to the supreme court
of errors, shall be returned to the clerk of said court at least
thirty days, and, if returnable to the superior or county
court, to the clerk of such court at least forty-eight hours,
and, if returnable to a justice of the peace, to such justice
0111' the peacefatfileast twenty-four hours, before the day of
t e session 0 t e court.¢

SECT. 23. Whenever any personal pro erty, being in

ive stock, t e custody and

.preservation of which would be expensive, shall be taken

by attachment, and held by the officer who attached the
same, either party to the suit may apply to any judge of
the superior or county court, or to a county commissioner
residing in the county where such property was attached,
for an order to sell the same, and thereupon after such
reasonable notice to the adverse party as said judge shall
direct, and upon satisfactory proof that such sale is necessary and proper, such ud e may order the officer who
attached said roperty, to se 1 the same at public auction at
such time andp place and u on such notice as he ma deem
reasonable and proper; and’ when the suit is not wi in the
jurisdiction of a justice of the peace, said judge may, at his
discretion, direct said officer to deposit the avails of said sale
with the clerk of the court to which said process is returnable, subject to the order of the court which has final jurisdiction of the cause.

Sncr. 24. Whenever the plaintifff intends to make appli-.
cation for the sale of roperty so attached, the property;
shall be appraised by tlliree disinterested freeholders of the
town where the property was attached, to be chosen, appointed, and sworn, and to make their return to the officer, in the
same manner as appraisers of real estate taken by execution,
a certificate of which appraisemeiit, under their ands or the
hands of either two of them, shall be presented to the judge
to whom the plaintifff shall ap ly for such order of sale, and
before any order shall be made upon any such application
of the plaintifff in the suit, the plaintifff shall give bond, with]
surety, to theadverse arty, to the acce tance of said judge,9
in a sum equal to don le the amount o said property, conditioned that he shall prosecute his action to effect, and pay
all damages which the adverse arty may sustain by the
sale of said goods at a less price Siam their appraised value,
with the interest thereof.

Siwr. 25. The fees of the judge, for hearin and decidin I
such application, and taking bonds thereon w en requir , F
shall be one dollar, to be paid by the part making such a
plication, and the justice, appraisers, an officers, shall ll):
entitled to the same fees to which they would have been
entitled for similar services on executions, and the fees of the

justice and ap raisers shall be aid by the officer, and

charged in his ill of fees; and t e expenses thus incurred
by either party, shall be taxed in favor of the successful
party, as art of the costs in the cause; and the officer who
serves sai writ shall make return of what has been done in
the premises to the court to which said writ is returnable.
Srscr. 26. If the suit upon which such property was A
attached shall be decided in favor of the defendant, the 11
money accruing from the sale of the property attached shall °‘

be paid to the defendant. But if the suit is decided in
favor of the plaintifff, said money, or so much thereof as
will satisfy his claim, shall be paid to the plaintifff ; and if
the property attached shall have been subject to more than
one attachment, the money shall be paid to the creditors, in
the respective suits, who attached said ro erty, in like
order and proportion as the proceeds wou d ave been by
law liable to have been aid in case of sale by execution;
and the court which ren ers final judgment in the suit may
make the necessary orders therefore.
Sncr. 27. After the money accruing from the sale of the
'property attached has been paid to the clerk of the court as
aforesaid, any creditor may attach the same, b leaving a
copy of his attachment, Wltll an indorsement o the service
thereon, with such clerk, and a like cop with the defendant, if within this state, in which case, e sum which such
creditor shall recover shall be paid to him, under the order
of the court, out of the su lus which shall be left, aher
deducting all previous a ments, in the same manner as
if such creditor had attached said property before the sale
thereof.
, SE01‘. 28. The defendant may, at any time during the
endency of the suit, take to his own use the money raised
.b such sale as aforesaid, upon givin bond, payable to the
plaintifff, with sufficient surety, to t e satisfaction of the
judge who ordered such sale, or of the court before which
the action shall be pending, if then in session, to refund the
same in the event of final judgment rendered against him,
to be disposed of in satisfaction of such judgment as herein
before provided.

SEOT. 29. In all cases where the plaintifff or defendant
may apply for an order to sell personal propert taken b
attachment, according to the rovisions aforesai , if it sha
appear to the authority to w om the application is made,
that the officer by whom said propert was attached has
deceased, or has been removed from o ce, such authority
may appoint the sheriff of the county where such property
was attached, or either of his deputies, to make sale of said
property in the manner prescribed as aforesaid.

SECT. 30. Whenever any goods, chattels, shares in any
corporation, or real estate, shall be attached, or whenever
any debt, or effects, shall be taken by process of foreign attachment, the defendant, if the debt or damages demanded
do not exceed three hundred dollars, may make application,
in writing, to any authority, having power to sign writs, in
the county where such attachment 18 made, or, if such debt
or damages exceed three hundred dollars, to a judge of the
supreme court of errors, or of the county court in the county

where such attachment is made, to dissolve the lien created

by such attachment, upon the substitution of bond, with

surety, as hereinafter provided.

f SE01‘. 31. The application may be in the following;
orm: ‘

To a justice of the peace for the county of

(or 'udge, as the case ma be :)

e application of C. ., of in the county of
shows, t at he is defendant in a certain action demanding
dollars, debt, (or damaghes,) wherein A. B., of
is plaintifff ; in which action, e following estate has been
attached, to wit: by E. F., of (insert
the name of the officer,) and that he is desirous that said
attachment should be dissolved upon the substitution of

bond, with surety, according to the statute.

Dated at the day of

C. D.

SE01‘. 32. N o attachment shall be dissolved until reason-i
able notice, in writing, of the a plication, signed by the de-‘
fendant, or his attorney, shall ave been served upon the
plaintifff, or his attorney, and on the officer serving. the
attachment; and such notice may be in the following form :

To of and
A. B. of
vs. Action of returnable to
C. D. court, term, A. D.

Take notice that the defendant will apply to justice
of the peace of the county of (or judge, &c.) at
on the da of A. D. at o’clock in the
noon, to disso ve the attachment in this cause, upon the substitution of bond, with surety, according to the statute.

Dated at the day of A. D.

C. D.

SECT. 33. All persons interested may be heard in rela-;
ti on to the amount and suiiiciency of the bond offered by the 1
defendant. Such bond shall be to the value of the roperty;
attached, unless the action be founded in tort for e recov-‘
ery of unliquidated damages, and it shall a pear to the
authorit to whom the application is made, t at the sum
requir to be attached is excessive, in which case he may
take bond for such sum as he may deem reasonable.

Sxsxrr. 34. The bond shall be taken to the plaintifff, and ;

ma& be in the following form:

hereas, the estate of C. D., of has been attached
by A. B., of by writ, dated returnable to
as by the ofIicer’s return in said writ, which estate is estimated to be of the value dollars :—You of

acknowledge yourselves jointly and severally bound unto the

said A. B., in the said sum of dollars, conditioned that
if the said O. D. shall pay the judgment that may be recovered against him in such suit, not exceeding the amount of
this recognizance, then this recognizance shall be void.
SECT. 35. The authority dissolving the attachment shall
certify his doings upon the application, and shall, as soon as
possible, return the application, recognizance, and other
proceedings, to the court to which the writ is returnable,
and the same shall be kept on file in such court.
Sncr. 36. The defendant, if the attachment dissolved be
' of real estate, may leave on file with the town clerk of the
town where such real estate lies, a certificate of such dissolution, signed by the authority making the same; if the
attachment be of shares in any corporation, he may leave a
like certificate with the oilicer of the corporation with
whom a copy of the attachment was left in service; if the
attachment be of debts, or effects, in the hands of a garnishee, he may leave a like certificate with the arnishee;
and no such corporation shall be held liable to e defendant for refusi to transfer the shares attached, or to pay
the dividend ue thereon, and no such garnishee shall be
held liable to the defendant for refusing to pay the debts,
or return the effects attached in his hands, until such certificate shall have been so left.
, Slim. 37. The authority takin the bond shall be enti"dad to receive for such service, y cents, if the demand

in the writ is three hundred dollars or less, and one dollar,
if such demand exceeds three hundred dollars.

 

CHAPTER IIL

OF BAIL.

Sncr. 38. It shall be the duty of sheriffs, deputy sheriffs,
constables, and indifferent persons deputed to serve writs
of attachment, to take sullicient bail, when offered by any
person arrested or held in custody by them, on mesne procem, in an civil action, which bail shall be one or more
substanti inhabitants of this state, of suiiicient ability to
respond the judgment that may be recovered in the action,
who shall become bound to such officer in a sufficient sum,
conditioned for the applearance of the person so arrested
before the court to whic the writ is returnable, and the person arrested shall thereupon be liberated from arrest; and
when the person so arrested shall be committed to jail on

mesne rocem, for want of bail, it shall be the duty of the 1
sheriff aving charge of the jail, at any time before the ses- ‘
sion of the court to which the writ is returnable, to take
good and sufficient bail as aforesaid, when offered, for the
appearance of such rson before such court; and such bail
being given, he sha be released from connnement in jail.*

SE01‘. 39. No person shall be committed to rison on a
writ of attachment, without a mittimus, signed y a proper]
magistrate, declarin the cause and ground of such commitment, requiring e jailer to receive and keep such erson in jail until legally discharged; which mittimus s all
be a sufficient an ority to the officer to commit such person, and to the °ailer to receive and hold him in custod .

Snor. 40. o defendant, whose person has been attac ed 1
and let to bail as aforesaid, shall be admitted to appear and
plead, or defend, in such action, until he has in court given
ycial bail, with suilicient surety as aforesaid, for his ab1 din

a1 judgment in the cause, if the plaintifff require the same.$_

SE01‘. 41. When any defendant, committed to jail for:
want of bail to the officer, shall remain confined therein:
after the term to which the writ is returnable or when a
defendant, committed to jail for want of special bail, shall
remain confined therein after the session of the court, and
the action shall be continued, it shall be the duty of the
sheriff having charge of the jail to take bail when offered,
with sufficient suret as aforesaid, for his abiding the final
judgment that shall e rendered in the cause, and thereupon
suc defendant shall be released from imprisonment.

Sncr. 42. In either of the cases aforesaid, every such
surety shall be obliged to satisfy the judgment in case of
the rincipal’s avoi ance, and a return of non est inventus
on e execution unless such surety, on or before the time
of entering up final judgment, shall bring the rincipal
into court, and move to be discharged; upon w ich the
court shall order the keeper of the jail to receive him into
custody that his body may be taken on execution.1

Sncr. 43. N 0 security to prosecute an appeal shall ex'onerate the special bail in the cause.
SECT. 44. The party in whose favor the judgment is
, given, may have a writ of scire facias or other proper action
on the bond against such surety, to recover the sum for
which 'udgment shall be rendered against the principal-,
with a ditional cost, provided such writ of scire facias or
other process on the bond, shall be taken out and served on
the surety within twelve months after the rendering of such
final 'udgment; and the surety against whom such recovery
is ha shall have his proper action for indemnity against
the principal.*

Sum. 45. It shall be the duty of the oiiicer to assign the
bail-bond to the plaintifff on his re uest, and no action shall
be maintained against the oilicer W 0 took the bail, unless
he shall have taken insufiicient bail, or shall refuse to assi
the bail-bond to the plaintifff, that he may have a rem y
agreeably to this act.1'

Sam‘. 46. In all cases where any person or persons have
executed a bail-bond, or entered into a recognizance for the
personal appearance of another, and such ball or surety shall
afterwards believe that his principal intends to abscond,
and shall apply to a justice of the peace in the county in
which such principal resides, produce his bail-bond or evidence of his being bail or surety, and verif the reason of
his application, by oath or otherwise, it shal be the duty of
such justice forthwith to grant a mittimus directed to the
sheriff, his deputy, a constable, or indifferent erson, of the
county in which such application shall be ma e, command1

ing such oilicer, or in 'erent person, forthwith to arrest

such princi al, and commit him to the common jail in such
county, an the keeper of such jail shall receive such principal, and retain him in jail until discharged by due order
of law.

CHAPTER IV.

OF THE PARTIES AND THEIR APPEARANCE IN COURT.

SECT. 47 . Whenever any public officer shall die or be
removed from oilice, all actions which had accrued to him

or would have accrued to him in his official capacity, may
be brought or continued by his successor.

Saar. 48. Towns, and all lawful societies, communities'
and corporations, shall have power to commence and prose}
cute any suits or actions to maintain and recover their rights
before any court proper to try the same, and may appear
and prosecute by their agents or attorneys, duly appointed,
and may in like manner defend in‘ all suits brought against
them, and shall have power in their lawful meetings to appoint atgents to appear in their behalf, and to employ attorneys, i necessary, to prosecute or defend the suits in which
they are parties.*

[In addition, 1849.]

Seer. 1. Whenever, in an action against a community, an 1
in ividual member of such community shall appear to defend j
against the action, he shall procure bond wit surety to the;
acceptance of the court in which the action is pending, to}
indemnify and save harmless such community from all costs:
which may arise by reason of such appearance; which bond
shall be payable to such communit , and be lodged with
the files of the court in which suc action is pending.
Snow. 2. Whenever any individual, a pearing as aforesaid, I
shall give bond in compliance with t e foregoing section,T
and shall successfully defend a inst such action, he shall be
entitled to the costs which sha 1 be recovered of the plaintifff, unless the community likewise appeared and defended
against such action, and incurred the costs of such defense.]

Siam‘. 49. Whenever any bond, note, or other security,
is taken and executed to the treasurer, committee, or other.
officer or officers, of an lawful community or corporation
in this state, wherein t e beneficial interest belongs, or on
the face of such bond, note, or security, appears to belong,
to such community or corporation, any action to recover or
enforce the same may be commenced, maintained and prosecuted to final judgment, by such community or corporation in their own corporate name.

Sncr. 50. Counties, in the name of their treasurer, may
commence and prosecute to final judgment, any suit necessary to enforce, acquire.or establish, any right, title, or demand, and may appear by agent or attorney, in any suit in
favor of or against them.+

Sister. 51. {All suits for or against a copartnershi , may

.be commenced by the com any name of the lainti s or defendants; and the plainti or laintiffs shall ave the rights,

;within the three first da s of e court to which the writ 1s
returnable, to amend e same, without cost, by inserting

the names of the several persons composing such copartnership; and writs returnable before a justice of the peace
may be amended in the same manner at any time before

the pleadings are closed.*

Saar. 52. Ifthe plaintifff, in an action returned to any
court, and entered in the docket, s all not, on or before the
opening of the court on the second day thereof, appear,
either by himself or attorne , to prosecute the action, he
shall be nonsuited; and if e defendant shall a pear, he
shall recover cost a ainst the plaintifff ; and the p aintiff in
any action may wit draw the same, or become nonsuit before the jury have given in their verdict, in which case he
shall pay cost to the defendant, if the defendant shall appear; and may bring a new suit, such withdrawal or nonsuit having been first recorded.1Sncr. 53. The laintiif, in any civil action, or in any suit

’in equity, returna le to the superior court, or to the county

court, and returned to said court, or to the office of the cler

thereof, may withdraw the same in vacation, by filin in the
office of such clerk, a written notice of the with awal,
signedb himself orb his attorney, and s ecifying the action wit drawn and e time of the with rawal. '

SECT. 54. The clerk of the court shall enter the action
so withdrawn, upon the docket of the court, at its next term,
in the same manner as though it had not been withdrawn,
with a note of the withdrawal, and of the time when it was
withdrawn.

SECT. 55. If the defendant shall, within the three first
days of said term, enter his claim for costs upon said docket,
the plaintifff shall be liable to pay the legal costs which shall
have accrued at the time of such ent , in the same manner
as thou h the action had been with rawn in 0 en court;
provide , that no costs shall be allowed for evi ence, oilicer’s fees, or witness’ fees accruing after the laintiif shall
have given the defendant or his attorney actualnotice of the

withdrawal, in writing, unless good reason therefore shall be
shown, to the satisfaction of the court.

SE01‘. 56. In all actions, brought by any person who is
not an inhabitant of this state, to any court in this state, the
clerk of such court shall enter in the record of the cause the:
name of the attorney by whom such plaintiii‘ appeared,;
which record shall be good evidence that such attorney was
the lawful attorney of such plaintifff.*

Srccr. 57. In any action when bond for prosecution is?
not 'ven at the time of praying out the writ, or when the]
hon taken is insuiiicient, the court or justice of the peace:
before whom the same is brou ht, on motion of the defend-I
ant, and on satisfacto roof t at the plaintifff or his surety
is not able to pay the i l of cost that may be recovered in
the suit, shall order the plaintifff to give a bond, with suincient surety, to prosecute his action to eifect, and pay all
damages in case he make not his plea ood, before proceeding to the trial of the same; and if t e plaintifff shall neglect or refuse to give such bond, he shall be nonsuited.1Slwr. 58. When any process is duly served on an de-;
fendaut, and returned to the court to which it is ma e re-a
turnable, if he do not appear, his default shall be recorded,
and judgment be rendered against him, unless he shall come
into court on or before the second da of its session, and
move for a trial, in which case he shall e admitted thereto,
upon paying to the plaintifff his cost to that time, and the
action shall be entered anew for trial.1:

Seer. 59. Any person claiming to be a creditor of the.
defendant in any action where pro erty has been attached,.
may file in the court in which suc action is pending, his‘
affidavit that he is such creditor, and that he has good reason '
to believe, and does believe, that the amount which the
plaintifff in such action claims was not justly due at the commencement of the suit; and that he is in dan er of bein
defrauded of his just ri hts by a recovery by t e plaintiffig;
and thereupon he shall ave the right to appear by himself
or attorney, to defend such action in the name of the defendant, on giving bond, with surety, to the plaintifff, in such
amount as the court shall ap rove, for the payment of such
costs as the plaintifff may ereailser recover; and if the
plaintifff shall recover his whole claim, cost shall be taxed
against the defendant to the time of the appearance of such

creditor; and for the residue of the cost, such creditor shall be
liable upon his bond; if only a part of the plaintifff’s claim
shall be recovered, the whole cost shall be taxed ainst the
defendant, and the creditor shall not be liable for e same;
if judgment shall be rendered in favor of the defendant, cost
shall be taxed in his favor against the plaintifff, but the court
may order that the judgment and execution therefore shall
belong to and may be collected by such creditor.

SE01‘. 60. Onthe trial of any cause, according to the rovisions of the recedin section, in which a creditor all
a pear and de end, suc creditor shall not be permitted to
p ead in abatement, nor to plead or 've in evidence the statute of limitations, nor usury, nor at the contract was not
in writing, acco ° to the raiuirements of the statute, nor
any other statutory efence w 'ch is consistent with the
justice of the laintifl"s claim.

; Saar. 61. hen the defendant, being an inhabitant of
this state, is absent from the same, at the time of the commencement of the suit, and does not return before the first
day of the sitting of the court, such suit shall be continued
to the next term; and if the defendant does not return or
appear by attorney, and is so remote that notice of the suit
could not have been conveyed to him, such suit may be continued to the next term, and no lon er ; and if he does not
then appear, udgment may be ren ered against him on default of ap earance. But if the defendant is not an inhabit.ant or resi ent of this state at the commencement of the
suit, and does not appear and answer to the suit by himself
or attorney, then the court shall continue the same to the
next term, and may direct notice to be given to the defendant of the pendency of the suit, by publication in some newspaper or otherwise, as they may judge expedient; and if the
eiendant should not then appear by himself or attorney,
and be so remote that itis not probable that notice has been
received b him of the pendency of the suit, the court shall
continue e suit to the next term, and no longer; and if he
does not then appear, may render judgment againsthim on
default; and in such cases where judgment shall be entered
1; u inst him on default, after such continuances, execution
- 1 not issue thereon until the plaintifff shall have lodged
with the clerk of the court a bond with one or more suiiicient sureties to the adverse arty, in double the sum of such
judgment, to refund the w ole, or such part of it, as the
court upon a writ of error, or petition for a new trial, to be
brou ht within one year after such judgment, shall ad'ud
. . . . J 3°
and etermine that the plaintifff had no right to recover;
?provided that no real estate taken by an execution granted
, on such first judgment shall be aliened or conveyed till after
a the expiration of twelve months from the rendition of such

judgment, or till after a decision in favor of the original
plaintifff, upon a writ of error or etition for a new trial,
rought within twelve months as a oresaid.*

SE01‘. 62. When a suit is brought before a justice of the

ce inst a defendant who is an inhabitant of the state,

ut is a sent at the commencement of the suit, and does not

return before the trial, such action shall be adjourned a reasonable time, not less than one month, nor more than nine

months, to give an o portunity for the defendant to return
or to send notice to 1m.

Smr. 63. When a suit is brought before a justice of the
eace ainst a defendant who is not an inhabitant or resient of is state, and actual notice is not given to him, the

action shall be adjourned for a term not less than three nor
more than nine months.

CHAPTER V.

OF VENUE AND J URIBDICTION .

Seer. 64. All suits wherein the title to land is to be tried T
and determined, and all actions of trespass, quare c1ausum1
fregit, shall be brought and tried in the county, and if
brought before a justice of the peace, in the town, where
the land lies, and all other actions which ma be brought
before the superior or county courts shall be hrought and ,
tried in that county,where the plaintifff or defendant dwells, «
if they or either of them are inhabitants of this state; but
if neither of them is an inhabitant of this state, -then the
action shall be brouoht and tried in the count where the
defendant is when the suit is commenced, or, iiy the defendant is not within the state, where the estate is which is
attached.1'

Snow. 65. All actions cognizable by a justice of the
 peace, except as provided in the next precedin section,
shall be brought and tried in those towns where e plaintifff or defendant dwells, but if there be no justice of the
peace in either of said towns, or in actions of trespass, quare
clausum fregit, in the town where the land lies, who can
lawfully try the cause, then the plaintifff may bring his suit
before a justice of the peace in one of the towns next adjoining to the place of his abode, or in trespass, quare clausum fregit, next ad'oining the town where the land lies.*
Snow. 66. Any bank or other incorporation established
by this state, or by the Congress of the United States, shall
have right to institute and prosecute to final judgment, any
action proper to be tried by the county or superior courts
in the county where such bank or a branch thereof, or other
incorporation, is located and transacts busiiiess.'|'

[In addition, June 18, 1853.]

[SEcr. 1. That all actions at law, or petitions in equity
brought by any insurance company or other corporation,
situate without this state, and incorporated by the laws of
apy other state, or government, against an inhabitant of
this state, shall be made returnable to a justice of the
peace, in the town where the defendant resides, or to the
county or superior court, in the county in which such town

is situated.
Sncr. 2. This act shall take effect from its passage]

Sncr. 67. All causes wherein the title of land is not
concerned and wherein the debt, trespass; dama e or other
matter in demand, does not exceed thirt live do lars, shall

be heard and determined by a justice of e eace, provided
that in all cases when the sum demanded sha l exceed seven
dollars, exce t in actions on note, or bonds vouched b two
witnesses an given for money only, an appeal shall e allowed to the next county court; ‘and when an appeal shall
be allowed by a justice of the peace to the county court, the
part so appealing shall give suilicient bond with surety,
to t e adverse party, to prosecute such appeal to effect,

and to answer all damages in case he make not his plea
good -1- 1

Sncr.( )68. All actions wherein the matter in demand:
does not exceed seventy dollars, and all actions brought on}
bond or note given for the payment of money only vouched by two witnesses, (except such matters as may be tried
by a 'ustice of the peace,) shall be heard and finally determin by the county court. (i)

Saar. 69. In any action brought to and tried by the.
county court wherein the title of lands is drawn in question j
and determined, or wherein the debt, dam , or matter in ;
dispute, shall exceed the sum of seventy do lars, (except it
be on bond or note vouched by two witnesses, if either
party shall be aggrieved by the sentence or ju gment of
such court, an appeal shall be allowed to the next superior
court in the same county; and in actions of ass, quare
clausum fregit, brou ht to the county court, w erein the
damages demanded s all be less than seventy dollars, if the
title of lands shall be in question between the parties, it
shall be the duty of such county court, on the trial thereof,:
to cause a record to be made that the title of lands was.
in question in such action, and thereupon an appeal shall
be allowed to the superior court, as in other cases, and
such appeals shall be entered during the term of the sitting
of the court from whence they shall be made, and sullicient
bond with surety shall be given by the party appealing, to;
the adverse party, to prosecute such appeal to eifect, and]
answer all damages in case he make not his plea good.1- (I)

-Smcr. 70. In all actions brought before any justice of
the peace, demandin not more than seven dollars damages,
charging the defen ant with raising or obstructing the
waters of any stream, river, creek, or arm of the sea, by
the erection of an mill, dam, or other obstruction, in whic
the defendant sha ljustify the same by a special plea, statin or alle ' a lawful ri ht, and in all actions brou ht
bet%re an gdlsltglce of the pegace demanding not more tlgan
seven dol ars damages, char 'ng the defendant with an injury done to land in which ge defendant shall 'ustify the
Ems by a s ecisitluilea, stating 3 alletlging 3 rig t offwayii

e w o s be 'ev by eju ent o suc
just1'Ic:lr<t>3f' the peace, shall e allowed an appegaxll to the next
county court in the same county, on giving bond with sufticient 81L1‘etyht?1 rosecute  sippetaltll to (effect; arid tlgg

a wosa e ieve y e'u entosu
gollitrlyty court, shall beag owed an appealjto $111: next superior court in the same county, on giving bond with sufficient
surety to prosecute his appeal to effect, and the defendant
in all actions appealed as aforesaid, shall not, without liberty of such county or superior court, amend, alter, or
change, the plea so made before such justice of the eace.*

Saar. 71. When in‘ an action of trespass, quare c ausum
fregit, brought before a justice of the eace, demanding not
more than seven dollars damages, the efendant shall justify
b a plea of title to the land, a record shall be made thereof, and the matter of fact shall be taken to be confessed,
and the defendant shall become bound to the adverse party
before such justice of the peace with suilicient surety in a
recognizance in a sum not exceeding seventy dollars, that
he Wlll enter such cause in the next county court in the

county where the land lies, and prosecute the same to effect,‘

and pay all damages and costs if he fails to make his lea
good, and if he neglect to give such bond, his plea s all
e rejected and the action roceed; and it shall be the duty
,of the defendant when he as pleaded and given bond as
aforesaid, to obtain certified co ies of the proceedings before the justice of the peace, or which he shall pay the
same fees as are paid to clerks of courts for copies, and to
enter the same in the docket of such county court.before

the second openin of the same, and if he should fail to do
it, he shall be liab e on such recognizance, to pay to the
laintiif all the damage he has sustained; and if on trial
efore such court, he shall fail to make out a title paramount to the title of the plaintifff, he shall pay treb1e-damages and cost.*

SE01‘. 72. In any action brought before any justice of
the peace demandin not more than seven dollars damages,
and charging the de endant with obstructing a way, or for
any injury to a way, in which the title to the way claimed
b the plaintifff shall be brought in question, it shall be
tlle duty of such justice of the peace, on the trial thereof,
to cause a record to be made that the title to such way was
in uestion in such action, and thereupon the party ag ieved y the judgment of such justice of the peace shal be
allowed an a peal to the next county court in the county
in which such judgment was rendered, on giving bond to
the adverse party with suiiicient surety to prosecute his appeal to effect; and the party who shal be aggrieved by the
judgment of such county court shall be allowed an appeal
to enext su erior court in the same county, on giving
bond with sii§cient surety to the adverse party to prosecute his appeal to eifect.

Saar. 73. All a peals to the superior or count court
shall be entered be ore the second o ening of sai court,‘
and not after, unless the appellant shall pay to the a pelleei
all his cost in‘ such cause arisen to that time, whic shall
not be refunded however the cause may eventually be determined, which cost bein taxed and paid, the action may
be entered by the apps ant before the jury attending
such court are dismissed and not after, and if the appellant do not enter his a peal before the jury are dismissed, l
the ap ellee may enter the same after the jury are dismiss-3
ed, an have the judgment of the court from which the
appeal was taken affirmed with additional costs, and execution granted accordingly.

Saar. 74. The superior court shall have ori ‘ml and
concurrent jurisdiction with the county court, of a actions‘
at law on notes and -bonds wherein the matter in controver-T
sy shall exceed seventy dollars, and of all other actions in‘
which it shall ap ear in the declaration that an ap eal
might be taken erein from the county court, if t ere
commenced, to the superior court.

[SEcr. 1. The superior court shall have ori ' al and
concurrent jurisdiction with the county court, of actions
at law, wherein the matter in demand shall exceed two

hundred dollars.

SECT. 2. All actions wherein the matter in demand does

'not exceed two hundred dollars, (except such matters as

may be tried by a justice of the peace,) shall be heard and
finally determined by the coun court.

SECT. 3. An appeal may be ad and allowed to the defendant, from the county to the su erior court, during the
first term of the county court to w 'ch the suit is brought,
and before any trial is ad to the  thereon, in all actions
at law, where the matter in demand exceeds the sum of
two hundred dollars.

Saar. 4. All appeals heretofore made or taken from the
county to the superior court, in cases wherein the matter in
demand exceeds the sum of two hundred dollars, be, and
the same are hereby declared to be ood and valid to all
intents and purposes, any law to t e contrary notwithstanding.

Siwr. 5. Appeals may be had and allowed from the
county to the superior court, by the party aggrieved, in
all suits or actions of ejectment or disseizin,—in all actions
in which the title of land shall be drawn in uestion and in
which such county court shall make a reco or certificate,
that such title was a material question made and tried in
said court,—in all actions charging an injury done to land,
in which the defendant shall jus ' the same by special
plea or written notice, stating and egiug a ri ht of way,
—in all actions charging the defendant with o struct' a
way, or for an injury to a way, in which the title to e
way claimed by the plaintifff, shall be brou ht in question,
—in all actions charging the defendant witg raising or obstructin the waters of an stream, river, creek, or arm of
the sea,%iy the erection oty any dam or other obstruction,
in which the defendant shall justify the same by a special
plea or written notice, statin and alleging a lawful right,
—and in all actions where t e sett1em'ent of a pauper is in
question, and in which such county court shall make a
record or certificate that the settlement of such pauper was
a material question, tried and determined by said court.

SE01‘. 6. All appeals from any order, denial, or decree,
of courts of probate, in any matters cognizable by said
courts, to the superior court, shall be tried by the court, or
by a committee a pointed by the co1u't, and not by a jury,
excepting when t e validit of the last will and testament
of any deceased person sha be brought in question.

Sncr. 7. An a peal may be had and allowed from the
j u ent rendereg in any case by a justice of the eace,to e next county court, holden in the county w erein
such judgment is rendered.

SE01‘. 8. All causes wherein the title of land is not concerned and wherein the debt, trespass, damage or other.
matter in demand, does not exceed fi dollars, shall be
heard, and determined by a justice of e peace, subject to
the right of appeal, as specified in the foregoing seventh
section of this act.

Sncr. 9. No appeal shall be allowed from any judgment
of the coun court, or of a justice of the peace, until the‘
party appea 'ng, shall become bound to the adverse party,
in such sum as the court from whose judgment the appeal
is taken, shall order and direct, in a recognizance with
s";zf1‘Iicient surety, conditioned to prosecute such appeal to
e ect.

Sscr. 10. All acts and parts of acts inconsistent with the
foregoing provisions, be, and the same are hereb repealed.

Sscr. 11. The act entitled “ An Act in teration of
‘ An Act for the re tion of Civil Actions,’ ” passed at
the last session of e General Assembl , and ap roved
June 29th, 1852, be, and the same is here y repeale .*

Smcr. 12. This act shall take effect from its passage]

[An Act in addition to and alteration of An Act relating
to Courts—1854.1']

[S1-nor. 4. The county court shall have the sole jurisdic-:
tion of all cases, at law, where the matter in demand does:
not exceed one hundred dollars, (exce t such matters as;
are within the jurisdiction of justices o peace,) and of all
ap eals from 'ustices of peace.

nor. 5. e superior court ‘shall have original and
concurrent jurisdict1on, with the county court, of all actions;
at law, wherein the matter in demand shall exceed one:
hundred dollars; and an appeal may be had and allowed
to the defendant, from the county to the superior court, during the first term of the county court, to which the suit is
brought, and before any trial is had to the jury thereon, in
the same manner as is by law now provided, when the
matter in demand exceeds the sum of one hundred dollars.

Swr. 7. Nothing in this act contained shallr effect any
suit or prosecution now pending; and all such rosecutions
may he proceeded with, in the courts wherein ey are now

nding, to final judgment and execution, as if this act

d not been passed.]

Snow. 77. Upon the trial of any issue in fact which]
shall be joined upon plea in abatement in any civil action, 1
the iindin of the court or the verdict of the jury shall not‘
preclude e parties from contesting‘ the cause upon its
merits, and if in favor of the plainti , the defendant may
answer over to the action -or lead any legal plea which he
ma deem necessary for his efence.

Ear. 78. If the plaintifff or plaintifffs in any action
brought ainst a co artnership by the copartnership namel
alone, s amend e writ by inserting the name of any:

erson as defendant upon whom service of the writ hath not]
been made, or if the defendant or defendants upon whom
service hath been made shall plead in abatement the nonjoinder of any other {person or persons as defendants, or if
such defendant or de endants u on whom service hath been
made, his or their attorney, s all in court make affidavit
that there is another person or persons than those named as
defendants in the pla1ntiif’s writ, belongin to the partnership against which the action is brought,’ e court may, if
the plaintifff or dplaintifffs do not take issue upon such plea in
abatement, or eny the truth of such affidavit, continue the
cause to the next term and issue process of summons or
attachment under the hand of the clerk of the court against
such person or ersons returnable before such court at its
next term, to e such erson or rsons arties to such
action, which process shall) be serv agreea ly to the law
regulating the service of such process, and such person or
ersons, having been duly served with such process, shall
be considered and treated as parties to said action in the
same manner as if the p1aint1ff’s writ had been originally
served on him or them, and they shall have the same right to
plead in abatement, or to make any other plea or motion
which they would have bad if they had been originally
made parties to the action; and in any of the cases above
specified, a justice of the peace before whom such action is
pending, may continue the cause a suitable time, and issue
process as aforesaid, under his hand, to make such erson
or persons arties as defendants to such action, whic procem having een served at least six days before the time to
which the cause stands continued, and returned to such
justice, such person or. persons shall be considered and
treated as parties to such action.* » .

Saar. 79. No action commenced by a single woman
who intermarries during the pendency thereof, shall abate
on account of such intermarriage; provided the husband

shall appear in court and cause such marri to be suggested on the record, and he may then proc in the same
maimer as if the suit was commenced after such intermarriage.*

Sncr. 80. When any action shall be pending in any
superior or county court, and the plaintifff before final judgment shall die, the same shall not abate if it might originall have been prosecuted by his executor or administrator,
and in such case the executor or administrator may enter
his name in the suit, if he see cause, and prosecute the
same; and if the defendant, while the action is pendin in
court, and before final judgment, shall die, the same all
not abate if it might originally have been prosecuted
against his executor or administrator and the p aintiff, or
his executor ~or administrator, may have a writ of scire
facias against the executor or administrator of such deceased
defendant, to show cause why ‘judgment should not be
rendered against him, which being served at least twelve
days before the sittin of the court to which the same is returnable and return , the action shall proceed to final issue
according to laws}Sncr. 81. In any action pending before a court, if there
be two or more plaintifffs or defendants, and one or more of
them die before final judgment, if the cause of action survive to the surviving plaintifff or plaintifffs, or against the
surviving defendant or defendants, the action shall not
abate, but such death being suggested on the record, the
action shall proceed.

Sncr. 82. No action to recover damages for injury to
the person, reputation, or property of the p aintiff, or to the

person of his wife, child, or servant, brought after the 27th

ay of June, 1848, shall abate by reason of his death, but
his executor or administrator ma enter and prosecute the
same in the same manner as is y law provided in other
actions; and if there be two or more plaintifffs, and one or
more of them shall die before final judgment, such action
shall not abate, but such death being suggested on the
record, the action shall proceed.
Sscr. 83. Actions for injury to the person, whether the

-same do or do not result in death, actions for inj to the

reputation, actions for injury to the property, rea or personal, and actions to recover damages for injury to the person of the wife, child, or servant of any deceased erson,
shall survive to his executor or administrator; provi ed the
cause of action shall not have arisen more than one year before the death of the deceased, and shall have arisen since
the 27th day of June, 1848.

Sncr. 84. No action of disseizin shall abate by reason.
of the death of the plaintifff, but the executor or 
trator may enter and prosecute the action in the same:
manner as is b law provided in regard to other actions,1
and recover j udvgment, if the action be sustained, for the
benefit of those enfiled to the estate.

Slim. 85. When the defendant in any action of disseizin;
pending in any court, shall die, and such action shall be:
thereby abated, and the plaintifff shall bring a new action:
for the recove of the same matter, to which new action
the statute of 'mitation shall he pleaded or oifered in evidence, the time which may have elapsed from the commencement of the first action to the abatement of the same,
as aforesaid, shall be excluded in the computation of the
time limited by law for the commencement of such new
action.

Sncr. 86. The successor of any public officer in whose!
name as such oiiicer a suit may be pending, may enter and}
prosecute the same in his own name in the same manner

as his predecessor might have done had he continued in
oilice.*

[An Act relating to Civil Actions, 1854.]

[No writ or process in any civil action, or in any pro-1
ceeding in e uity shall be abated by any court, on accountj
of any amen ent or alteration of such writ or process be-:
tween the time of the signi of such writ or process and:
the service of the same. !§or shall such alteration or
amendment operate to discharge the bond or recognizance,
if any, taken upon the si ' of such writ or process.

Prmn'de_d, that  act sha not affect any action at law
or proceeding 11]. equity now pendmg.]

CHAPTER VII.

OF PLEADINGB.

Snow. 87. The parties shall make their pleas and joinissue according to the rules and orders esta lished by the

court, and in case the plaintifff shall refuse to obey the order
of the court in pleading, he may be nonsuited; and in case
the defendant will not make his plea or join’ issue, judgment may be rendered against him upon nihil dicit.* ~

Saar. 88. In all actions at law, the defendant may

l deny the truth of the plaintifff ’s declaration, in the following words, or in words equivalent thereto, viz: “The defendant denies the truth of the matters contained in the
plaintifff’s declaration, and puts himself on the court (or
jury, as the case ma be, for trial ;” under which general
issue the plaintifff all e bound to prove the material
facts alleged in his declaration, except as limited in the
next section.

S1-nor. 89. In all actions upon any written instrument or
reco izance, claimed to have been executed or entered
into’ y the defendant, and which is described or recited in
the declaration, the plaintifff shall not be required to prove
the execution or delivery of such" instrument or reco ’nizance, unless the defendant at the time of pleading sha
file notice in writing that he denies such execution or
delivery.

S1-zcr. 90. Under such general issue the defendant may
give his title in evidence, or any special matter of defense
and justification, according to the nature of the action;
provided, that the defendant shall not so give in evidence
any matter in avoidance, or any defense consistent with
the truth of the material allegations in the declaration,
unless at the time of pleading he shall file notice thereof in
Writing, stating in general terms, Without unnecessary prolixity, and in a manner intelligible to a erson of o inary
understanding, the true ground and su stance of the defense relied u on.+

SECT. 91. t shall be lawful for the defendant in any
suit to plead, by special leave of the court, as many several
matters by distinct pleas as he shall think necess for his
defense. If any such matter or plea shall, upon emurrer

F joined, be judged insuihcient, costs may be 'ven to the

‘plaintifff at the discretion of the court, thong the other
issue or issues may be decided in favor of the defendant.
If a verdict shall be found on any issue joined in the cause
in favor of the plaintifff, costs shall be allowed to him,
though on some other issue the defendant should be entitled

to judgment, unless the court that tried such issue shall be
of opinion that the defendant had probable cause to plead
such matter which has been so found against him; and in]
actions of re levin, where the defendant makes avowry, the!
plaintifff shall have right to plead double in the same man-’
ner as the defendant in other cases, and shall be governed
by the same princi les.*

Sncr. 92. In all) actions bro ht for the recovery of as
debt, if there shall be mutual de ts ‘between the laintiif
and the defendant, or a part of the defendants, if ere be
more than one, one debt may be set off ' t the other,
and such matter may be given in evi ence under the

neral imue, with notice in writin , given at the time of
ging such plea, of the debt intend to be set off, and on
what account it has become due, or it may be pleaded in
bar, and the plaintifff shall have right, With leave of the
court, to reply double to such plea of set off. N o debt.
claimed by assi ent shall be set off, unless the plaintifff
had notice, at e commencement of the action, that such
debt was due to the defendant. If it shall ap upon the
trial that the plaintifff is indebted to the efendant, the
court shall give 1' udgment for the defendant to recover the
balance of the plaintifff with his costs; provided, however,
that no 'udgment shall be 'ven against the plaintifff to recover t e balance of a de t due to only a part of the defendants, and that no justice of the peace s all give jud ment in favor of the defendant for any balance which shjl
exceed thirty-live dollars‘![In addition, 1852.]

[S1-xrr. 1. That in all actions of trespass, other than those
of assault and battery, and in all actions of trespass on the
case, in which 'udgmen't shall be rendered in favor of the
plaintifff, it s be lawful for the defendant or defendants
m such action, to set off against such judgment any debt or
debts which he or they ma hold either Jointly or severally
against the plaintifff ; whic said right of set off, shall not

be defeated or in any way affected by any assignment of

such 'ud ent b the laintiff, but such assignment shall
be ta.hengs111ib'ect yto sulih ri ht of set off. Provided however, that no ebt or debts w 'ch the defendant or defendants shall have acquired, by purchase or assi ent after
the accruin of the cause of action, upon whic such judgment shall e rendered, shall be allowed as a set off under
this act.
Saar. 2. In all such cases, the defendant or defendants
‘shall have the right of iilin his bill in equity, in the court
where such 'udgment shallgb
hours after nal judgment and before the rising of the court,
praying for such set off. And if such debt or debts so held
y the defendant or defendants, are admitted by the plaintifff, or are evidenced by judgment, said court shall thereupon proceed forthwith to make such set off. But if the
debt or debts so held by the defendant or defendants, and
claimed to be set oil‘, are denied by the laintiif, such set
off shall not be allowed, unless the defen ant or defendants
shall have, previous to the rendition of the judgment in favor
of the plaintifff, instituted either in law or equity, a suit or
suits upon such debt or debts. And in case such suit or
suits shall, at the time of the rendition of such judgment, be
pendin in any of the courts of this state, the court rendering suc judgment, shall order the stay of execution thereon,
until the final termination of such smt or suits; and if upon
such final termination thereof, the defendant or defendants
shall recover judgment therein, such judgment or judgments shall be set oif against the j ud ent so as aforesaid
recovered b the plaintifff: but no rig it of set 011‘ shall be
allowed un er this act, in cases where the defendant has
now by law the right of set off, on the trial of the case.]

[In addition, 1853.]

[SEc'r. 1. That “An Act in addition to an Act for the
regulation of Civil Actions,” assed May Session, A. D.
1852, approved June 28th, A. . 1852, authorizin set—o1l'
in actions of trespass and trespass on the case, s all not
apply to cases where actions are brought for damages for
t e taking of property, which by law is exempt from being
taken on execution.

SEOT. 2. This act shall not affect any suit now pending.]

SECT. 93. In all actions brought on any contract, or for
the recovery of damages merely, the defendant may file
» with the clerk of the court to which the action is returnable,
or if returnable to a justice of the peace, with such justice

e rendered, within twenty-four.

of the peace, a written notice, signed by himself or by his
attorney, directed to the laintiif or his attorney, offering
to allow the plaintifff to e judgment for a certain sum, to
be named in said notice.

Sncr. 94. In actions before the superior or coun
courts, the laintiff, u on notice given him by the defen ant of the  of suc notice, may, Within ten days thereafter, file with the clerk of the court, a written notice,
signed by himself or his attorney that he accepts said offer;
and in actions before justices of the peace, the plaintifff may
file such notice of acce tance within forty-eight hours after
such notice of such oger; and such notice of acceptance
being filed, the court before whom the action is pending,
shall render judgment against the defendant, as u on default, for the sum so named as aforesaid, and for e costs
which shall have accrued at the time of the defendant’s
giving the plaintifff notice of said oEer, including the court,
clerk, and attorney fee, as u on default, and the actual
travel and attendance of the p aintiii at court.

Saar. 95. The trial of an action shall in no case be postponed, because the period within which the plaintifff may
accept such offer shall not have expired, except at the discretion of the court.

SE01‘. 96. If the plaintifff shall not, within said time and
before the commencement of the trial, file his notice of acceptance, the oifer of the defendant shall be deemed to be
withdrawn, and shall not be iven in evidence on the
trial; and the plaintifff, unless e shall recover a greater
sum than that named in the offer of the defendant, shall
recover no cost accruing after notice of such offer being
filed as aforesaid shall have been given him, but shall pay
to the defendant his taxable costs accruing after notice of
said oifer. .

Sncr. 97. Whenever in any action brought upon any

administration bond, or other bond with conditions, or
when in any action at law, by reason of a plea of set oil‘, or,
other special plea therein, it shall become necessary to ad-9
just and settle any matter of account proper to be heard

and decided by auditors, the court before W ich such action
shall be pending, may refer such matter of account to one
or more auditors, ap ointed by said court, to be b such
auditors heard and ecided in such manner as sai court
shall order and direct; and in case any other issue shall be
joined in such action, the sameshall be heard and decided
as in other cases.

Sscr. 98. It shall be competent for all corporations cre-9
ated by private acts, in suits where their corporate acts are‘

concerned, to declare and plead in the same manner as if
created by public acts.* . Snow. 99. Whenever the defendant in any suit on a
bond, note, or other chose in action not negotiable, shall
plead or give in evidence the discharge, admission, or other
act of the plaintifff, or any payment made to him, or an
transaction whatsoever between the plaintifff and defen ant, it shall be lawful for the plaintifff to rep] or prove, as
the case may require, an assi ment of such c ose 1n action,
and notice thereof given to e defendant; and on the same
bein made to gpear, such discharge, admission, ayment,
or 0 er transac ‘on, shall be no otherwise availab e m such
suit in favor of the defendant than the same would or ought
to be in a court of equity.1Sncr. 100.- In any action on any note, bond, or other
contract, to which there is a condition annexed, which condition and any breach or breaches thereof are not set out in
the p1aintiii"s declaration, if the defendant having prayed
0 er of and set out such condition, pleads performance

ereof, and the plaintifff replies thereto, setting forth any
breach or breaches of such condition, the defendant may,
with leave of the court, rejoin as man several matters by
distinct re'oinders as he might have eaded had such condition andJ breach or breaches thereo been set forth in the
declaration;

Sncr. 101. In actions upon probate bonds, the plaintifff,

- either in his declaration or in his replication, must aver and
. set forth for whose s ial use and benefit the action is prosecuted, and how suc persons are interested in the same,
and how the act or neglect of the defendant has injured

their ri hts or affected their interests, and the jud ent
which s ll be rendered in such case shall not, in anygtllltlure

roceedings b scire facias or otherwise, have the effect to
c r or conclu e the rights of other persons who may be
interested in the probate bond.

CHAPTER VIII.

OF AMENDHENT.

Sncr. 102. The plaintifff may amend any defect, mis-'
take, or informality in the writ or declaration, without cost,j
within the three first days of the term of the court towhich
it is returnable, and at any time ailerwards on the payment
of cost at the discretion of the court; provided such amendment shall not change the form or round of the action, and
the defendant shall have reasona le time to answer the
same.* Sncr. 103. The parties respectively shall have liberty to:
amend any defect, mistake, or informality in the pleadings,‘
or other parts of the records or proceedings. When either]
party shall suppose that in any part of the pleadings he has
missed the ground of his lea, and that he can plead a different plea that will save im in his cause, he shall have
liberty to change such plea, replication, or rejoinder, as the
case may be, and plead anew, and the other party shall have
reasonable time to answer the same; and in all cases when
a party amends or alters any part of the pleadin or pleads
anew, if it shall occasion an dela in the tria , or mcon-.
venience to the other party, e shal be liable to pay cost
at the discretion of the court. And all courts shall have
power to restrain the amendment and alteration of pleas so

far as may be necessary to compel the parties to join issue
in a reasonable time for trial.*
Saar. 104. Whenever in any civil action an appeal shall

have been duly allowed from the jud ment of a justice of
the peace to a county court, and sha have been legally
"entered in the docket of said court, the plaintifff may amend

his writ by raising the damages to any sum not exceeding
seventy dollars.

CHAPTER IX.

OF THE JURY.

Smcr. 105. All actions in the superior and county courts
in which an issue shall be 'oined on a matter of fact, and all
appeals from probate in w ich such issue shall be joined, on
the trial of which the validity of the last will of an deceased
person shall be brou ht in question, shall be trie by a jury
of twelve men, quali ed, im anneled and sworn according
to law, unless the arties sh 1 put such issue to the court as
hereinafter provi ed.

Sncr. 106. The civil authority, selectmep, constables
and rand 'urors in the several towns, shall, some time in the
mont of anuary annually, meet and choose by ballot, to
serve as jurors in the county and superior courts in the
county to which such towns belong, such number of their
able and judicious electors as is prescribed by law. There
shall be a box provided in the several towns at the cost of
the town, with a lock to it, and lodged in the hands of the
town clerk, and when the jurors are chosen as aforesaid, the
town clerk shall write the name of each elector so chosen,
on a piece of paper by itself, and put the several names so
written in the said box, and keep the same locked in his

hands, that the said names may be drawn as is hereafter providedcf

[SE01 1. That all persons who shall be members of any
fire company, authorized by and organized under the laws,
of this state, and all persons who shall be engineers or:
wardens of any fire department, in any of the towns of this
state, shall during the time of such service be exempt from
serving as jurors in any of the courts of this state.

Sscr. 2. All persons who, after the passage of this act,:
shall serve six successive years in the above-mentioned3
capacity of iiremen, or as engineer and warden, shall be?
and remain thereafter exempt from serving as jurors in any
of the courts of this state.

Saar. 3. All acts and parts of acts inconsistent herewith
are hereby repealed.]

Sscr. 107. At some convenient time before the sitting of
the aforesaid courts, the clerks of the same shall summon‘
eighteen jurors to attend such courts, and shall issue warrants directed to either of the constables of the several towns,
or of some of them, in the county in which the court is to be
held, to summon and warn so many able and judicious electors of the town as their warrant directs, to attend and serve
as jurors at such court, and such constable shall repair to the
town clerk and in his presence, or in case of his absence,
in the presence of one of the selectmen of such town, or of
a justice of the peace, draw out of the box aforesaid the
number his warrant directs him to summon, without seeing
the names he draws before he draws them, and shall then
summon for urors the persons whose names he has so
drawn.* (1)

SE01‘. 108. But if an or all whose names are so drawn
shall be at the time dea , others in his or their room, shall

be drawn and summoned as aforesaid. And the constable

shall make timely return of his warrant to the clerk that
issued the same with an endorsement certifying whom he
has summoned for the urpose aforesaid, on pain of forfeitin to the treasury of t e county 9. sum not exceeding five
do lars, at the discretion of the court, unless such constable
shall s1easonably make his excuse to the acceptance of said
court.

Saar. 109. And if any of the jurors summoned as aforesaid do not appear, or shall for an cause be excused from
attendin court, the court may at t eir discretion, from time
to time, irect the clerk to issue a warrant or warrants to

summon, in manner as aforesaid, additional jurors so as to
prevent, as far as may be consistent with the convenient dispatch of business, the necessity of filling up the anel of jurors with the names of persons not designated an summoned
as aforesaid. *

Sncr. 110. The clerks of said courts respectivel , in impanneling the ‘my for the trial of each cause, sha 1, when
more than twe ve jurors are attendin as aforesaid, designate by lot the names of those who sha l compose the panel
of jurors; but on the trial of every civil action, each party
shall have the right to challenge two jurors peremptorily,
and without alleging or showing an cause thereforexf

Sncr. 111. If any 'uror chosen, clrawn and summoned as
aforesaid, shall make efault of a pearance according to the
direction of the warrant, he sha forfeit to the treasury of
the county wherein he dwells the sum of two dollars, unless
the court on hearing the excuse made in his behalf, shall
judge it sufiicient.

Sscr. 112. If a sufiicient number of jurors summoned as
aforesaid do not appear, or if by reason of challenges or some
other cause, there shall not be a sufficient number of jurors
to make u the anel, the court ma order the sheriff to
return suc num er of able and ju icious electors of the
countg as may be necessary for that urpose, and when the
sheri is interested or related to eit er of the parties, the
court may direct a constable, or such officer as they shall
appoint, to make such return, which jurors being so returne , shall perform the duty required of them, on the same
penalty as is inflicted on those who make default of a pearance, and when the 'ury are impanneled they shall e the
oath prescribed by lJaw.

[In addition and in alteration, May 26, 1853.]
[SEcr. 1. That any judge of the superior or county court,

1 (if in his judgment the business of said court shall require

it,) may at any term of the court holden by him, order the

-clerk of such court to summon, in addition to the number
‘of jurors now by law required, any number of jurors not

exceeding twelve, to attend and serve as jurors at such
court, in the same manner as is now provided by law.
SE01‘. 2. That any law inconsistent herewith, is hereby
re ealed.
nor. 3. This act shall take effect on and after the day
of its passage.]

CHAPTER X.

OF EVIDENCE.

Smcr. 113. The parties shall have process of subpoena or
summons signed by the clerk of the court, or a justice of
the peace, to be served by an officer or indifferent person, to
bring their witnesses into court, and if any person upon
whom a subpoena shall be served to appear and testify in a
cause pendin before any court, an to whom one day’s
attendance an fees for traveling to court have been tendered, shall neglect or refuse to appear and testify, without
reasonable excuse, he shall forfeit five dollars and pay all
damage to the party ag 'eved, to be recovered by a proper
action in his name, an it shall be lawful for the court on
due proof of the service of the subpoena and the tender of
the fees as aforesaid, to issue a capias directed to some prop-,
er oiiicer, to arrest such witness and bring him before the

court to testify.
Sncr. 114. The form‘of a subpoena may be as follows

To A. B. and C. D. &c.

By authority of the state of Connecticut, you are hereby
commanded to a pear before the court to be
holden at F. on t e Tuesday of to testif what
you know in a certain action now de ending in t e said
court, between E. F. of H. laintiff, an G. H. of M. defendant, in an action of ereof fail not, under the penalty
of the law in that case provided.

To any proper officer or indifferent person to serve and
return.

Dated at H. &c. J. K. Justice of Peace.

Smcr. 115. When any witness in a civil cause lives outof the state, or more than twenty miles from the place of '
trial, is goin to sea, or out of the state, or by age, sickness‘
or bodily in rmity, is unable to travel to court, or is confmed in jail on legal process, his deposition may be taken
by any Judge of t e superior or county court, or of any
court of probate, or by a justice of the eace, or a notary
public; provided reasonable notice shal be given to the
adverse party or his known agent or attorney, or left at his
usual place of abode, to be present at the time of taking
such deposition; and depositions may be taken in any other
state or country by a notary public, commissioner a pointed by the vernor of this state, or any magistrate aving
power to minister oaths; and the witness shall be cantioned to speak the whole truth, shall be carefully exI

amined, shall subscribe his de osition and make oath to it
before such authority, who sha l attest the same and certify
that the adverse party or his agent was present, (if so,) or
that he was notified, and shall also certify the reason of
taking such deposition, shall seal it up, direct it to the
court where it 18 to be used, and deliver it, if desired, to
the party at whose request it was taken.*

Sncr. 116. The part , his attorney, or any person inter’ ested, shall not write, raw up, or dictate, any deposition,

and every deposition so drawn u , or that shall be returned
to the court unsealed, by any ot er hand than that of the
authority who took it, or the seal of which shall be broken,

shall be rejected by the courtsf

[In addition, 1854.]

[That whenever any witness in a civil cause ending before any court in this state, shall have attain the age of
sixty years, it shall be deemed a suihcient reason to authorize the taking of his deposition, in behalf of either party
who may desire the same, on due notice being given to the
adverse party or his attorney as in other cases; and the
deposition so taken bein duly certified, scaled up and directed to the court in w ich such suitis pending, shall be
received in evidence on the trial of the cause, in the event
of the death of such witness, or of his becoming, by reason
of age, sickness, bodily infirmity or other cause, disabled
from attending and testifying personally at such tria1.]

Snow. 117. Every judge of the superior or county court,

' judge of probate, Justice of the peace, or notary public, in

this state, shall have power to issue a subpoena, upon request, for the appearance of any witness before him in a
civil cause, when such witness is bound to sea, going out of
the state, or lives more than twenty miles from the place of
trial, and to take his deposition, the adverse party or his
agent being present or duly notified; and if such witness

shall refuse to appear, the judge of the superior or county
court, judge of probate, justice of the peace, or no public, may issue a capias and cause him to be brou ht efore
him, and if the witness shall refuse to give his <§eposition,§
said m ' trate may commit him to prison till he shall comply; an in like manner the depositions of witnesses living
in this state may be taken to be used as evidence in a suit
depending in any court of judicature of the United States,
or of any other state of the United States, on application of
either of the parties to such suit.

S1-nor. 118. Depositions directed to the superior or
county courts, may be opened by a clerk of either of said:
courts at any time and in any county in this state, the clerk‘
opening the deposition certifying therein the time and place
0 opening the same.

Saar. 119. Either judge of the superior court, when the
court is not in session, shall have ower, when necessary,]
to issue a commission to take the eposition of any person
or persons resident out of this state, to be used in a cause
pending before such court, notice being given to the adverse party to appear before such judge, and the judge of
each county court shall have the same power when the
court is not in session, on givin notice to the adverse

arty, if the deposition is to be use in a cause pending be’ore the county court of which he is judge.

Sscr. 120. Every commissioner appointed according to
the laws or usages of any other state or government, or by
any court of the United States, or of any other state or
government, to take testimony in this state to be used in
any such court, may apply to the judge of any court of record, or to any justice of the eace, or notary public, for a
subpoena, or ca ias, to comps the appearance of any witness before suc commissioner, and upon due proof of his
authority, and that the testimony of the witness is material,
such judge, justice, or notary public, shall issue such subposna, or capias.

Sscrr. 121. If any person who shall have been duly summoned as a witness to testify before such commissioner,
shall refuse to appear and give his testimony, such judge,
justice, or notary public, may commit such person to prison
until he will comply.

Smcr. 122. Every erson attending as a witness before
any officer authorizedp by law to take depositions, shall be
entitled to the same fees as witnesses attending before a
court in a civil suit; and before any compulsory process
shall issue to cause any witness to attend and testif before
said oilicer, it shall ap ear to the oiiicer taking e deposition, or, in the case 0 a commissioner, to the officer issuing the summons, that such witness has been duly summoned, and the amount of his fees tendered to him by the
officer serving the same.

SE01‘. 123. Whenever an person shall be desirous of
perpetuating the testimony 0 any witness or witnesses concerning any matter which is the subject of a suit which has
been or may be brou ht, he may present a petition in
writing to any judge o the superior court, or of the county
court, setting forth the reasons of his application, the name
of the witness or witnesses, the subject matter of controversy, and the names of all persons interested therein, and
praying that the deposition of the witness or witnesses may

e taken and perpetuated; and thereupon the said jud e
shall make an order ap ointing a time and place for t e
respondents to appear beiore him and shew cause why the
prayer of the petition should not be granted, and prescribing such notice thereof to the parties, whether resident in
this state or not, as he may think reasonable; and if, at the
time a pointed, the judge shall find, on due proof, that
notice ath been given according to said order, he shall
further direct, if no sufiicient cause be shown to the contrary, that said depositions shall be taken, either by himself, or by some other person or persons whom he may a
point for that purpose, and at such times and places as e
ma prescribe.*

nor. 124. The judge or other person or persons taking
such depositions, may adjourn from time to time, as necessity or convenience ma require, giving notice thereof
to the parties resent, an may cause the attendance of
witnesses by sub oena and capias.

. Sncr. 125. e depositions taken in manner aforesaid
shall be scaled up and directed to the clerk of the superior
court in the county where the petitioners, or some of them,
reside, or, if‘ none of the petitioners reside within this state,
to the clerk of the superior court in the county in which
the respondents, or some of them, reside, and the clerk
shall open and lodge the same on file, together with the
petition and the several orders of the judge and the proceedings thereon.

SE01‘. 126. Copies of the depositions taken in manner
aforesaid, duly certified by the clerk, shall be received in
evidence in the cause for which the were taken.

Sncr. 127. For services there s all be aid by the petitioner or petitioners, the following sums: o the °ud to
whom the petition is preferred, and who may take e eposition, three dollars per day; to any person a pointed by
such judge to take epositions as aforesaid, t ree dollars
per day; to officers and witnesses the same as in other
actions. -Sncr. 128. Protests of inland bills of exchan e and]
promissory notes rotested without this state, shal be ad-,
mitted as prima acie evidence of the facts therein con- <
tained.

Sncr. 129. The private acts of this state, published by
authorit of resolutlons of the general assembly, may be:
receive in evidence in all courts of justice, in all cases in:
which exemplihed or certified copies of the same would be
so received.

Sncr. 130. An exemplification by the secretary of thisi
state of the laws of the several states in the United States,3
which have been, or hereafter shall be, transmitted by order 1
of the executives or legislatures of the same to the governor
of this state, and by him deposited in the office of the said
secretary, shall be admissible in evidence in any court in
this state.

Sncr. 131. The public statutes of the several states in:

the United States, printed by authori thereof, shall be;
legal evidence, and the courts shall ta e notice of them
ju icially.*

Star. 132. The reports of the judicial decisions of other
states and countries may be j udic1ally noticed by the courts
of this state as evidence of the common law of such states
or countries, and of the judicial construction of the statutes
or other laws thereof.1'

SE01‘. 133. The entries or records of all public offices
and corporations, where entries or records are made of
their acts, votes, and proceedin , by some officer appointed
for that p ose, may be prove by a copy thereof certified
under th;1?and of such officer, and the seal of such office
or co oration, (if there be any); and if any such officer
shall owingly make a false certificate, he shall be punishable in the same manner as if guilty of pe1jury.:[:

Smcr. 134. When the clerk of any court, town, society
or corporation, is absent, or is, by sickness or otherwise,
unable to perform the duties of his office, the files, records,
votes and proceedings of such court, town, society or corporation, may be proved in any court of law, by copies examined and sworn to by credible witnesses.

[In addition, 1850.]

[That in suits by or against the representatives of deceased persons, the entries and written memoranda of the
deceased relevant to the matter in issue, may be received
as evidence"; sub'ect in regard to weight and credit, to the
rules under whic the testimony of parties and other interested evidence is received.]

SECT. 135. In all actions against any person or persons,
or against any incorporated company, for the recovery of
damages on account of any injury to any property, whether

'real or personal, occasioned by fire communicated by any

locomotive en ine while upon or assing along any railroad
in this state, fhe fact that such re was so communicated,
shall be taken as full prima facie evidence, to charge with
negligence the corporation, or person or persons who shall,
at the time of such inij ury by fire, be in the use and occu-_
pation of such railroa , either as owners, lessees or mortgagees, and also those who shall, at such time, have the care
and management of such engine, unless such person, persons or corporation shall show that no negligence was, at
such time, Justly chargeable to them or to ose in their
employment. _ _ _

Sncr. 136. In any action at law in the superior court,
and in any like action in the county court which is not appealable, an person. or persons being parties in such
action, ma le a motion, with leave of the court, praying
for such isclosure of facts, or production of papers or
documents by any other person or persons who are parties
in such action, as it would be competent for the same
court, as a. court of equity, to order on the grounds in such
motion stated, and such facts and papers being disclosed or
produced, may be given in evidence by the party filing
such motion.*

SECT. 137. Upon oath or affirmation being made by the
person or persons who file such motion, that he or the
verily believe all the matters therein set forth or suggeste ,
to be true, the person or persons of whom such disclosure
or roduction IS sought, shall plead, answer or demur, in
suc time as the court shall prescribe; and the court shall
have and exercise the same powers, and proceed in regard
to costs, and in all other respects, in the same manner as on
a bill in equity.

Sncr. 138. Whenever a person who shall have been a
justice of the peace, shall have died or removed out of the
state, or have been removed from or not reappbinted to
oilice, for some crime of which he may have been convicted,
on impeachment or otherwise, his files and records shall be
by him, his heirs, executors or administrators, lodged in the
town clerk’s office where he last resided, and the town
clerk is empowered and required, if need be, to demand
and receive such files and records, to keep the same safely,
and to give, when required, true and attested copies, which
shall be legal evidence; and if such justice of the peace, or
person who has exercised that office, shall refuse to deliver
such files and records to‘the town clerk within ten days
after demand, he shall incur a penalty of five dollars, for
each week he shall so neglect or refuse to deliver the same,
to the use of the county where the offense is committed,
to be recovered in an action brought in the name of the
county treasurer; and the executor or administrator of
such justice of the peace or person, shall in like manner
deliver over to the town clerk such files and records as are
in his custody, belon 'ng to the deceased, and on like
notice and refusal, sha be subject to the same penalty, to
be recovered in the same manner as herein p1'0Vlded.

SECT. 139. Whenever any person shall have been a 
tics of the eace, and shall have been removed from or not
re-appoints to oilice, for other cause than a conviction of {
some crime, he shall have a right to perfect his records from‘
the files as occasion ma re uire, and to give certified
co ies thereof, which shall be (legal evidence.

ECT. 140. N 0 person who believes in the existence of a;
Supreme Being, shall, on account of his religious opinions,?
be adjudged an incompetent witness.* Q

Sam‘. 141. No person shall be disqualified as a witness
in any suit or proceeding at law, or in equity, by reason of n
his interest in the event of the same, as a party or otherwise; or by reason of his conviction of a crime; but such;
interest or conviction may be shown for the purpose of affecting his credits][In alteration, 1849.]

[That so much of the 141st section of said act as authorizes a party to an criminal proceeding, to testify regarding,
the same, be, an the same is hereby repealed.] Sacr. 142. An art to an civil action or roceedi
Y P X 5' P 98:
whether at law or 1n eqmty, may compel any adverse part ,
e or any person for whose immediate and adverse benellt
such action or proceeding is instituted, rosecuted or defended, to testify as a witness in his beh , in the same manner and subject to the same rules as other witnesses;
provided, however, that no party shall be allowed to compel
an answer to a bill or motion for discovery, from an adverse
party, and also to compel him to testify.
Sncr. 143. Nothing in the two receding sections con° tained, shall in any manner affect e law relating to the
attestation of the execution of last wills and testaments, or
of conveyances of real estate, or of any other instrument
required by law to be attested, or any suit or proceeding
pending on the 27th day of June, 1848. .

CHAPTER XI.

OF TRIAL.

Saar. 144. It shall be the duty of the court to decide all
questions of law arising in the trial of a cause, and in committing the cause to the jury to direct them to iind accordingly, and to submit all questions of fact to the jury, with
such observations on the evidence, for their information, as
the ma think proper, without any direction how they
shall ling the facts. After the cause is committed to the
‘my, no pleas, arguments, or evidence, shall be received

etore the verdict is returned into court and recorded!‘

[In addition, 1852.]

_ [S1~:c'r. 1. That whenever in the trial of any issue or is«sues in fact, in any civil action, the plaintifff shall have produced his evidence and rested his cause, it shall be lawful

'for the defendant to move for judgment as in case of nonsuit, and the court, before which such trial may be had,

shall have power to grant such motion,'if in the opinion of

such court, the plaintifff shall have failed to make out a
prima case.

Smcr. 2. The plaintifff shall have the right at the same:
term of the court, to move the court to set aside such non-j
suit, b filing a written motion to that effect; and if the.
court s all refuse to grant such motion, the plaintifff shall1
have a right to revise the decision of the court, by motion?
in error, as in other cases; and to enable him so to do, it«
shall be the duty of the court to state the whole evidence
so produced as aforesaid, that the same may become a part
of the record.

Snow. 3. If such judgment of nonsuit shall beset aside,
either on motion as aforesaid, or by motion in error, the?
cause shall he proceeded with in the same manner as though
said motion had not been granted.]

Sncr. 145. The court shall determine q estions of law
referred to them by the jury in a special ver 'ct, which the
jury ma give when they entertain doubts respecting the
points 0 law arising in the cause, or when the parties request it, in which special verdict they shall iind the facts,
and state the uestion of 1aw—to wit: If the law be so in
such a point, t en we iind for the plaintifff; but if the law
be otherwise, then we iind for the defendant; and when the
jury find a verdict in favor of the plaintifff, they shall assess
the damages which he shall be entitled to recover.

Sncr. 146. The court shall have power, if they 'udge
the jury have mistaken the evidence in the cause, an have
brought in a verdict contrary to it, or when they have
brought in a. verdict contrary to the direction of the court
in a matter of law, to return them to a second consideration, and for like reason, to return them to a third consideration, and no more.*

Sscr. 147. The jury, after a cause has been committed
to them, shall be under the charge of an officer appointed
by the court, who shall permit no person to be resent with
them or to speak to them, when assembled for eliberation,
nor shall the jurors converse with any person, but among
themselves, relative to the cause under consideration, before they have returned their verdict, and when they have
agreed upon a verdict, they shall return it to the court. If
any juror shall converse with any person concerning the
cause, except his fellows, while it is under consideration, or
shall voluntarily suffer any other person to converse with

him, such verdict, on motion, may .be set aside, and the
court before whom such action is pendin , shall cause such
juror to come before them, and if on dgue inquiry, they
shall find him guilty, the court shall iniiict on him a fine
of seven dollars for the use of the state; and if any juror
shall be convicted a second time of such offense, he shall
be forever disqualified to sit as a juror in any case whatever. Aud if the officer a ointed to attend on the jury, or
if any of the jurors, shallpbe guilty of any disorderly conduct, or shall neglect and refuse to perform their respective
duties, or shall disobey the orders of the court, then the
court may inflict a fine on such oiiicer or juror, not exceeding four dollars.* (‘j EC'l‘. 148. In a l actions pending before the superior

'and county courts, when the parties shall join issue upon

any matter of fact, and shall put themselves on the court
for the trial of such issue, the judges of such court shall
have power to hear and try the same without a jury, and
to award damages and costs, and grant executions thereon,
in the same manner and on the same principle as in trials

by jmrfr
[In addition, 1850.]

[That in every action of assumpsit, brought to the coun* K or superior courts to recover upon any account wherein
t

e sum demanded is more than seventeen dollars, the

-court before which such action is pendingh may, with the
t

‘consent of the parties, ap oint not more

an three able,
judicious and drsmtereste men, to audit and adjust the accounts between the parties, who shall have the same power,
and proceed in the same manner, as auditors in a proper
action of book debt.]

Sucr. 149. In all cases when the arties 'oin in demur-g
rer, or in an issue in law, the same s all be eard and de- ‘
termined b the court; and the court shall render 'udgment
on all verdicts of the j according to their nndin , with
cost, unless the same Shut-{fl be set aside; and in al cases

where judgment is rendered otherwise than on verdict, in
favor of the plaintifff, the court shall assess and award the
damages which he shall recover.

SE01‘. 150. In all actions against two or more defend-‘
ants, if the plaintifff shall fail to sustain a good cause of 1
action against any defendant or defendants, he shall not, for I
that reason, be prevented from recovering 'udgment against 1
the other defendant or defendants; and ghe defendant orj
defendants against whom no recovery is obtained, shall be}
entitled to judgment for costs. ‘

CHAPTER XII.

OF DAMAGES AND COSTS.

Saar. 151. In actions on penal bonds containing condi-*
tions which have been forfeited and broken, the court, or
the jury, when tried by the jury, shall find and assess such
damages as are 'ustly and equitably due, and judgment
shall not be ren ered for the whole enalty, unless it ap-‘

ear to be due. And if upon a bond, with conditions, the

reach of which may happen at different times, a suit be
brought u on the first breach of such conditions, the court,
upon the orfeiture of such bond found, on trial, demurrer,
confession, or otherwise, shall render judgment for what is
due in equity at the time, with cost, and award execution
thereon. And upon any further or other breach or ne lect of performance of any other.particular in the con<§tion annexed to or endorsed upon said bond, the obligee,
his executors or administrators, may take out a scire facias
against the obligor, his executors or administrators, from
the clerk of the court in which the judgment was given,
to show cause why execution should not be awarded for
the mone then due, or damages then sustained; and the
court sha 1 render udgment, for what shall appear to be
due in equity, and grant execution thereon, and so from
time to time till all the particulars mentioned in the condition are performed and completed; provided, that the

whole amount of such judgment shall not exceed the penalty in the bond with interest.*
Smcr. 152. In all actions of trespass and trespass on the

;case tried in any county or superior court, if the damages

found by the verdict of the ury, or otherwise, shall not exceed thirty-five dollars, the plaintifff shall recover no more
cost than dam es, unless the title of land, the right of way,
or the right to t e use of water is in question. And in all
actions of assault and battery, and of assault and battery
and false imprisonment, and of slander, in which the plaintifff shall recover in the superior court, by verdict of the
jury or otherwise, a sum not exceeding seventy dollars, he
shall recover no cost which accrued by reason of the appeal ;
provided that when the defendant in any of the actions
aforesaid, shall remove such action by appeal from a justice of the peace to the county court, or from the county
court to the superior court, the plaintifff on recovering final
j1;_dgme1nt against the defendant, shall recover his ful costs
0 suit.

SE01‘. 153. Whenever two or more suits at law shall be
pending in the same court, at the same time, for the recovery of the same debt, dam e, or demand, or whenever
two or more suits shall be peiaéing before the same court,
at the same time, against two or more officers, u on recei ts
for executions arising from the same original ju gment, e
court before which such suits shall be pending, shall not
tax or allow any costs in any such suit or suits, unless such
court shall be of opinion that the commencement of said
several suits was necessary to secure said debt, damages, or
demand.

SECT. 154. In case of bonds given for the rosecution
of any action or appeal, the surety or sureties s all be liable to satisfy the cost that shall be recovered against the
principal, if it cannot be had out of his estate; to be recovered by a writ of scire facias, or a proper action on the bond.

 156. Whenever an appeal is taken from the
.oo1iIity court to the superior court in an action not appeal’abl’e, the superior court shall remand it to the county court
{from whence it came, and such county court on the remand.ing thereof, may, on motion, for an just’ and reasonable
cause appearing, grant a new trial ereon, or make such
order as to justice shall appertain. And if the superior
court render a judgment in a cause appealed as aforesaid,
and the same is brought by way of error or complaint before the supreme court of errors, and is b such court reversed on the ground that it was not appea able, it shall be
the duty of sald supreme court to remand the same to the
county court as aforesaid, and thereupon the said county
court may, on motion, grant a new trial thereon, or make
order on the same, as a oresaid.*

SECT. 157. When it appears that the defendant had not
‘actual notice of the suit, or a reasonable opportunity to appear and make his defense, the court may, on petition,
grant him a new trial, if they find he ha -just ground
of defense.
SECT. 158. In all cases when a judgment shall be rendered by a justice of the peace agamst a defendant who is
.absent from the state till after the time of trial, and has no
notice of the suit, he may apply to the county court in the

county where the judgment is rendered, for a new trial,
which court is empowered to ant the same, and to roceed
to final j ud ment therein, if t e defendant shall m e it apear that t e 'udgment was wrongfully obtained against
'm, and that he had good ground of defense, which application shall be made within six months after his return into this state, and within three years from the rendition of
the judgment. _ _ _ ‘

Saar. 159. In actions or joint contracts, where all the‘
defendants are not inhabitants of this state, if any of the de-,
fendants on whom the process was not served, shall be ag-I
grieved by the judgment, he may be relieved by a new
trial, which the court is em owered to grant upon a etition
for the same, if they shall 'nd that the defendant ad just
cause of defense.

Sncr. 160. U on the trial of all matters of fact, in the
superior court, w ether the issue be closed to the court or}
jury, if either party shall think himself aggrieved by the decision of the court, upon any question or questions of law
arising in the trial of such issue, he shall have the right, at
the same term, and within forty-eight hours after verdict‘
rendered, or issue found, to make a motion for a new trial,1
stating therein the question or questions of law decided by
the court as aforesaid; and it shall be the duty of the court
trying said issue, in all cases to grant a rule to show cause,
and to reserve said motion and rule for the advice of the
supreme court of errors next to be holden in the same coun- .
ty ; provided, that the party filing said motion, or his attorney, shall make oath that the same is not intended for
illelayg and execution may he stayed, at the discretion of

e court.*

Sncr. 161. Every motion for a new trial shall be completed, and a rule  show cause granted by the judge try-?
mg the cause, during the term at which said motion is filed,
and before the adjournment of the court.

Sncr. 162. If any motion for a new trial, which shall;
hereafter come to a hearing in the supreme court of errors, *
shall not present the question or questions of law that were
decided by the court upon the trial of the issue below, the
party aggrieved thereby shall have the right to apply_ to
said supreme court to rectify the same; and if upo_n inquiry
had, it shall appear to said supreme court that said motion
does not present said question or questions, it shall be the
dut of said supreme court to correct the same, and then
sai corrected motion shall be preceeded with in all respects
as if allowed and reserved by the court below.

- [That in all cases in which a party shall file his motion
in the superior court for a new trial, and such motion shall
be allowed, the adverse part may at any time within five
days thereafter, and before t e rising of the court, file his
bill of exceptions to any decisions of the court in the course
of the trial, or in the charge to the jury, that have been
against him; and if the court shall be of opinion that the
same questions will arise again, if a new trial should be had,
such bill of exceptions may be allowed and the questions
arising thereon shall be considered by the supreme court of
errors in connection with those presented by the motion for
a new trial, and the opinion of said court expressed there
on, in case a new trial of the cause is granted.]

Sscr. 163. Writs of error may be brou ht to the supreme court of errors from the judgments and ecrees of the
superior court in the same county, and to the superior court
from the judgments and decrees of the county and city
courts, and from the judgments of justices of the peace in
the same county, which shall be allowed and si ed by a
judge of the supreme court of errors, or by a ju ge of the
county court in the county in which such writ of error_shall
be brought, or by the clerk of the su erior court to which,
or from the °udgment or decree of w ich, the same shall be
brought; an the authority signing such writ shall take good
and sufficient bond with surety that the plaintifff in error

-shall ‘prosecute his suit to effect, and answer all damages if
1

he fa to make his plea good.*

Srwr. 164. Writs of error to the supreme court of errors,
shall be served and returned at least thirty days inclusive,
before the session of the court to which they are returnable,
and writs of error to the su erior court shall be served‘
twelve days inclusive before t e session of said court, and’
returned as in other cases of civil rocess.*

SE01‘. 165. Writs of error shal be served by the oihcer
leaving a true and attested copy of the same with the de-:
fendant in error, if there be but one, or at his usual place.
of abode, or if he be not a resident of this state, then with
the attorney who appeared in the original .cause; but if
there be more than one defendant, service may be made
upon one as aforesaid, and upon the others in the same
manner, or b the officer readin the same in his or their
hearing; an writs of error may ge served on the petition-.
ers for a bi hway, by reading the same in the hearing of 1
any of the t ree first signing petitioners, or by leaving an
attested copy thereof at the usual place of abode of either
of the said three first signing petitioners. Writs of error
may be served upon communities and corporations public‘
or private. in the manner provided by law for the service‘
of other civil process.

Seer. 166. Whenever final judgment is rendered in the
superior court in any cause in which a party may be en-J
tit ed to a writ of error to the supreme court of errors, such’
party may in the same term and within twenty-four hours
after final judgment, file his motion that the record in such
cause may be transmitted to the next supreme court of errors
which would have cognizance of a motion for a new trial,
in the cause, and if on such motion the superior court shall
be of opinion that the same is not intended for delay, but
that the questions arising on the record are such as entitle
the party to a revision thereof, such court may allow the]
motion, if the party moving shall give suiiicient surety by c
recognizance to the adverse party, to pay all damages if he
fail to prosecute the same to effect; and thereupon a copy
of the record shall be entered on file in the next supreme
court of errors, who shall proceed therein in the same manner as on a Writ of error.1'

[Whenever final jud ment is rendered in the county
court, in any cause in w ich a party may be entitled to a
writ of error to the superior court, such party may, in the
same term, and within twenty-four hours after iinal judgment, file his motion, that the record in such cause may be
transmitted to the next superior court in such county, and
thereupon such county court shall have the same powers
with reference to such motion, which is given to the superior court, in the 166th section of the act to which this isin
addition, upon similar motions in the superior court, for the
transmission of records to the supreme court of errors, and
upon the allowance of such motion, a copy of the record
shall be entered on file in the next superior court, for such
county, which shall proceed therein, as on a writ of error.)

Snow. 167. Whenever a judgment or decree shall be reversed by the supreme court of errors, such court may render udgment in favor of the plaintifff in error, to recover of
the defendant all he has been damnified by such erroneous
judgment or decree, together with his cost on the writ of error, or motion in error; or may remand the cause to the
superior court to be_ proceeded with by said court to final
ju gment, in which case the whole cost shall be taxed in
favor of the prevailin party.*

SE01‘. 168. If a ju gment or decree shall be reversed by

the superior court on a writ of error, either party may, unless the ju ment shall be reversed on a principle which

(1
shows that tge action cannot be sustained, enter the action

in the said su erior court, where it sha11.be proceeded with
and tried in t e same manner as if it had been or could have
been brou ht there by appeal ; and the whole cost in said
action, inc uding the cost on the writ of error, shall be taxed

iin favor of him who shall recover final judgment. If the

action shall not be so entered by either part , the plaintifff
in error shall recover judgment for all whic he has been
damnified by said erroneous judgment or decree, together
with his cost on said writ of error. When the ori 'nal action
is of such a nature that it cannot be tried in t e superior
court, and it appears that further proceedings may be had
in the county in which such erroneous judgment or decree
was rendered, it shall be the duty of the superior court to remand the cause to said court, who shall roceed therein in
the same manner as in other causes of the ' e kind brought
originally to said court.*

E01‘. 169. Whenever a judgment or decree shall be~
afiirmed, on a writ of error, or if the plaintifffs in error shall:
suffer a nonsuit, or withdraw the cause, the court having
cognizance of the same, shall render judgment in favor of
the defendant in error, to recover his cost, and may, according to their discretion, ad'udge and decree to the de-l
fendant in error, the interest 0 the mone delayed by such
writ of error, and grant execution accor ingly.

Sncr. 170. When a writ of error shall have been signed,
by a judge of the county court, or a clerk of the superior,
court, an application may be made by the defendant in ‘
error, to either judge of the superior court, and if, aiteri
reasonable notice to the plaintifff in error of such a pli-«
cation, so that he may be heard as to the same, it shal a
pear to such judge that there is no reasonable or probab e
cause for the allowance of such writ of error, he may order,
n on such terms as he shall consider just and reasonable,
t at the levying of the execution on such 'udgment shall
not be any farther suspended by reason of e pendency of
such writ of error.

Sncr. 171. Whenever a writ of error has been or shall
be brought to reverse the judgment in any cause wherein:
the estate of the defendant or defendants may have been
attached to satisfy such judgment, if th same shall not be
reversed, the time during which such writ of error shall
have been ending so as to revent the levying of such
execution, s all be excluded £0111 the computation in determining the continuance of the lien created by such
attachment.

1
1
1

CHAPTER XIV.

OF EXECUTION.

_.St:c'r. 172. Executions may be of the form following,
viz:

To the sheriff of the county of H. &c., Greeting. Whereas C. D. of W. on the day of before J. H. Esq.
justice of the peace for the county aforesaid, recovered judgment vainst A. B. of H. for the sum of dollars
cents, ebt, (damages,) and for the sum of dollars,

cents, costs of suit, as appears of record: whereof
execution remains to be done:

These are thereforee, by authority of the state of Connecticut, to command you, that of the mone of the said
A. B., or of his goods, chattels, or lands, wit in your precincts, you cause to be levied, and (the same being dis osed
of as the law directs,) paid and satisfied unto the said . D.,
the aforesaid sums, being dollars, cents, in
the whole; and also, that out of the said monies, goods,
chattels or lands, you levy seventeen cents more for this
writ, together with your own fees.

[And for want of such money, goods, or chattels, of the
said A. B., to be by him shown unto you, or found within
your precincts, for satisfyin the aforesaid sums, you are

ereby commanded to ta e t e body of the said A. B., and
him commit unto the kee er of the jail in H. in the county
aforesaid, within the sai prison; who is likewise hereby
commanded to receive the said A. B. and him safely keep,
until he ay unto the said O. D. the full sums above
ipnengioned: and be by him released, and also satisfy your
ees.

Hereof fail not, and make due return of this writ, with
your doings therein, unto the said J. H. Esq., within sixty
days next coming. Dated at H. this day of
&c. J. H. Justice of the peace.

To the sheriff of the county of H. &c. Greeting. Whereas C. D. of W. recovered judgment against A. B. of F.

before the court, holden at H. within the county

aforesaid, on the Tuesday of for the sum of
dollars, cents, debt, (damages,) and

dollars, cents, costs of suit, as appears of record:

whereof execution remains to be done:
These are thereforee by authority of the state of Connecticut, to command you, that of the goods, chattels or lands

of the said A. B., within your precincts, you cause to be
levied, and (the same being disposed of, or a praised, as
the law directs,) paid and satisiied unto the sai C. D., the
aforesaid sums, being dollars, cents, in the
whole; with cents more for this writ, and thereof
also to satisfy yourself for your own fees. [And for want
of such goods or chattels of the said A. B., to be by him
shown unto on, or found within your precincts, to the acceptance of e said O. D., for satisfyin the aforesaid sums,
you are hereby commanded to take gme body of the said
A. B., and him commit unto the kee er of the jail in H. in
the county aforesaid, within the said prison; who is likewise hereby commanded to receive the said A. B., and him
safely to keep until he pa unto the said O. D. the full
sums above mentioned, an be by him released, and also
satisfy your fees.]

Hereof fail not, and make due return of this writ, with
your doings therein. Dated at H. &c. E. K. Clerk.‘

Sacr. 173. Executions may be directed to any officers;
proper to serve the same, in any of the counties in the state; and the officers to whom the same are directed and delivered, shall duly and faithfully serve and return the same,
accordin to the directions therein 'ven; and bein returned, t e shall be kept on file in t e office out of which

they issue . And all writs of execution shall be made

returnable within sixty da s, or to the next court, in case
sixty days are remaining etween the next court and the
date of the execution, at the election of him who prays out
the same; and all executions granted by justices of the
peace, shall be made returnab e in sixty days; and all
sheriffs and constables shall have power to execute any
writ of execution to them directed within their own precincts.f

Sncr. 174. When the sheriff of any county shall receive
executions from the treasurer ofh the state 'rI1)slt the inhabitants of a town or towns for t e arrears o pu ic taxes,
and shall levy the same on ’the estate of such inhabitants,
or any part of them, and take their receipts for such estate
to be delivered at the lace of sale according to law, and
on the failure of the elivery of such estate, shall obtain
ju ent and execution thereon ainst the inhabitants of
suc town, or any part of them, t e Jud e of the county
court in the county where the parties be ong, may, at the
retgluest of the sheriff, depute and empower some suitable
an indiiferent person to serve and reiturlrli 3110111 exeplutions;
and all persons deputed as aforesai s a ave e same

ower and authority, in servin such executions, as sheriffs
by law have, and such sheriff all be responsible for any
neglect or default of any person, deputed at his request as
aforesaid, in the same manner as for his deputies.

Slwr. 175. Executions shall be granted against the
§§.°‘}-?;o°.i’.3‘§‘§iS33.“?hd§’sZE.‘].3 Whiiislhtie itfifiittiseliféfoii
and) when any execution is en out and delivered to the,
sheriff or constable to whom it is directed, to serve, he

shall repair to the debtor’s usual place of abode, if within
his precincts, unless he finds him at some other place, and
make demand of the debt, or sum due on such execution,
with his lawful fees, and upon refusal or ne lect of payment of the same, such officer shall indorse on e execution
when and where he made demand of the debt and sum due
thereon, and shall Ie the same on the personal estate of
the debtor, except suc estate as is hereinafter exem ted
from execution or warrant; and on such estate also, i the
same shall be presented by the debtor. And the officer
shall advertise and post such estate, with particular account
thereof, on the sign-post in the society where taken, to be
there sold, (unless some other lace is designated pursuant
to law,) at ublic vendue, at t e end of twent -one da 3,
s ecifymg the day of the month when the sa e is to e
p ace; and in computing the time aforesaid, the da on
which the property is osted shall be included, an the
day specified for t e s e shall be excluded from the computation. And in such societies as are made out of two or

more towns, the constables of such towns shall have the
same power and authority, where the sign-post shall be
without the limits of the society to which they belong, as
other constables by law have within their respective districts. And in case the debtor shall not, within said
twenty—one days, pay the debt, and all the cost and charges
that have arisen, the oliicer shall sell, at beat of drum, to
the highest bidder, such goods, or so many of them as may
be necemary to pay the execution, and the lawful fees and
expenses, and the overplus, if any there be, he shall return
to the owner.*

T [In addition, 1852.]

[Sam 1. That whenever a writ of execution shall be:
issued upon a jud ent rendered by the superior or county?
court, against a efendant who shall have removed from!
this state, before the service of such writ of execution, the‘
officer serving the same shall make demand of payment,
and for the goods and chattels of the defendant, at the
last usual place of abode of such defendant in this state, if
within the precincts of such officer, and shall also make
such demand of the agent or attorney of such defendant
within his precincts, if such defendant shall have filed or
caused to be liled with the clerk of said court, before the
issuing of such writ of execution, a written notice of the
‘agpppinment by him of such agent or attorney in that

e

1f-l (')

SE01‘. 176. Whenever an officer shall advertise for sale‘
property taken on warrant or execution, which cannot be‘
removed to the public sign-post, without great injury or}

expense, or which cannot be there sold without great inconvenience or injury from exposure to the weather; such
officer ma , in his advertisement, designate some other
proper an convenient lace, within the socie where the
property is taken, at w ich said propert ma. e sold.

Sscr. 177. Whenever at the time of t e sa e of property
at the public sign-post, as’ herein before provided, the weather
or other circumstances shall be unfavorable to such sale at
that place, the officer posting the same, may publicly adjourn to a more convenient and suitable lace within the society where the propert is taken, and t ere proceed to the
sale of such ropert . enever at the time of the sale of

roperty at e public sign-post, or any other place legally

esio-nated by the officer posting the same, the property cannot e sold for want of bidders, or any other cause, the oilicer may adjourn the sale to a more convenient time, not
exceeding ten da .

Sncr. 178. W enever at the time of sale of any personal
pro erty taken on execution or warrant and posted to be
sol , the oilicer holding such execution or warrant shall be
of opinion that such propert could be more advan eously
sold at some other time or ace, he may, with the a vice of
an disinterested justice ofp the peace residing in the town,

u licly adjourn such sale to a more convenient and suitale place within the society where the property is taken,
and there proceed to sell such property; and such officer
may, from time to time, adjourn said sale, until the whole,
or so much of said property as may be required to satisfy
such warrant or execution, is sold.

Saar. 179. The followin articles of ersonal property

‘shall be exempted, and not able to be ta en by warrant or

execution, VIZ : necessary apparel, and bedding and household furniture necessary for supporting life, arms, military
equipments, im lements of the debtor’s trade, one cow,
any number of s eep not exceeding ten, two swine and the
pork produced from two swine, or two swine and two hunred pounds of pork being the property of one person, any
quantity of charcoal not exceeding twenty-five bushels, any
quantity of coal other than charcoal not exceeding two tons,
any uantity of wheat ilour not exceeding two hundred
poun weight, any uantity of wood not exceeding two
cords, any uantity o hay not exceeding two tons, any
quantity of eef not exceeding two hundred pounds weight,
any uantity of fish not exceeding two hundred pounds
weig it, an quantity of potatoes, or turni , not exceeding
five bushe s of each, any quantity of In ian corn, or rye,
not exceedin ten bushels of each, and the meal or flour
manufactur therefrom .any quantity of wool, or ilax, not

exceedin twenty pounds weight of each, or the am or
cloth ma e therefrom, one stove, and the pipe be ongi

thereto, being the property of any one person having a wilig
or family, the horse, saddle and bridle of any practising hysician or surgeon of a value not exceeding one hundredp dollars, and one pew being the property of any person or persons, having a family who ordinarily occup the same. (‘)

SE01‘. 180. Whenever any execution shagbe levied upon
the machine , engines, or implements situated in and used
b any man acturlng or mechanical establishment ; or upon
t e household furniture of any person having a family, and
used b him or her in housekeeping; or upon the hay depositedy in any building, if there be no encumbrance by mortgage on said machinery, engines, implements, furniture, or

ay; and if the said machinery, engines, implements, furniture, or hay, cannot, in the opinion of the oiiicer lev '
upon the same, be removed without manifest injury, thy-3%
ficer shall not remove the same, but shall give notice of such
levy, by posting up a notification thereof on the outer door
of the bmlding in which such machiner , engines, implements, furniture, or hay, is situated; andy in such case, said
machinery, engines, implements, furniture, or hay, shall be
holden by such levy as effectually as if the same had been
taken into possession of the officer.

Saar. 181. Whenever final judgment shall be rendered
against copartners, the execution issued thereon shall in no
case be levied u on any other than the partnership property,
or the individual ro erty of such defendants as are particularly named in e eclaration.

Sscr. 182. The levy of execution on the rights or
shares, which any person owns in the stock of any bank,;
insurance company, turnpike company, or other corporation, ‘
together with the interest, rent and profits, due and growing
due thereon, shall be by leaving a true and attested copy
thereof with the cashier, secretary, or clerk, with an attested
certificate, by the oilicer making such levy, that he levies
upon and takes such rights or shares to satisfy such execution; and thereupon such officer shall ost the same accord-:
ing to law, and, as in other causes, sha 1, at vendue, sell the
same, together with such interests, rents and profits, or so
many thereof as shall be sufficient to satisfy such execution,
or so much thereof as such rights or shares may groduce;
and such officer shall thereupon give to the pure aser an

instrument in Writing, conveying to him such rights or shares ;
and shall also leave with such cashier, secretary, or clerk, a
true and attested copy of the execution and of his return
thereon; and the purchaser shall thereupon be entitled to all
dividends and stock, and to the same privileges asamember
of such com any or corporation, as such debtor was entitled
to. And W enever an pro er officer shall, with a writ of
execution, ap ly  suc cas "er, secretary, or clerk, for the

purpose of so ev in u on such rights or shares the cashier,
llxr, sl§al.l)f1n'nish him with a certificate, under

secretary, or cler
his han , in his oiiicial capacity, ascertaining the number of
rights or shares the defendant holds in the stock of such bank,
company or corporation, with the in_cu_mbrances thereon, if
any there be, and the amount. of dividends thereon _due ;
provided, that when any bank incorporated by authority of
this state, has no cashier, oi; the czliishier is absent tlfilerefrom,
or any insurance company urnpi e company or o er coman incorporated by the laws of this state, has no secretary
P . . .
or c erk therein, then the rights or shares which an person
may own in the stock of any such corporation may e taken
by execution by leavi the copy of the execution and the
. . . "8 . .
iczeliinlficates, in téifis section 1prescribed,t1at the _bankip -house,
o - ouse man acturing ouse or o er rincipa ouse or
place in  state where such, corporatilon transact their
usiness or exercise their corporate owers.* .
. SECT. 183. Whenever any sheri ,‘ deputy sheriff, or conistable, has in his hands for collection any execution issued
against an turnpike company, or toll brid e company, inco orate by the laws of this state, it sh be the duty of
suc oiiicer to demand (payment thereof of themtreasurer of
the turnpike or toll bri e company a 'nst W °ch the said
execution is issued, toget er with his ees; and if said turnpike company, for tpill bridge coiiilpany, have no treasurer,
the payment o sai execution s all e emanded of the
%ec(iietary or any one of the directors of said turnpike or toll
ri ge compan .
3 SE01‘. 184. lf said turnpike company, or toll brid
fcompan , do not, in twenty days after the demand so ma e,
pay 58.1 e§eC11(§1(;lI1l ang téie ogceli; s fieies thereciiggt slliall be
the uty o sai eri epu s eri or cons e avin
said execution, to make a true and lattested copy: of 
execution, and endorse on the same that he has demanded

payment of said execution as aforesaid, and that the debtors '

in said execution have neglected to ay the same and his
fees thereon, and return the same to t e judge of the county

V

court in any coun where the turnpike company, or toll

bridge complany, W o are debtors in said execution, have a
gate and co ect toll.

Smcr. 185. Upon the return of such copy and endorse- A
ment thereon to said judge, it shall be the duty of said ud e °
to a oint, in wri ' , some roper person a receiver, w o
shallipu on the dtaxyligto be dbsignated by said judge, not
more an ten days after such return, repair to such toll
gate of the said turnpike or toll bridge company, as the
oilicer who has said execution may direct, within his official
precincts; and said officer shall put said receiver in possession of such toll te in such manner that he may receive
all tolls there paid y persons passing such gate; but said
judge shall, on such ap lication by such officer, and before
the ap ointment of suc receiver, assi a time and place
for suc appointment, and said oiiicer 1 give at least six
(lays previous notice thereof to the company, by leaving an
attested copy of the order of said judge, assigning a time
and place as aforesaid, with the clerk or treasurer of such
company, or, if there be none such, with any director
thereof; and such company may appear before said judge,
and be heard relative to such appointment.

SECT. 186. And the person so appointed receiver shall]
be authorized to receive from all persons passin such gate‘
the toll by law, or by the act of incorporation o said company, prescribed; and it shall be the duty of all persons
passing such gate to pay the same to the said receiver.

Smr. 187. Such receiver shall kee an accurate ac-1
count of all the sums by him collecte and received for]
tolls, until he shall have collected a suilicient amount to.
pay said execution, and the officer’s fees thereon, and the
fees of said judge, and his own services and disbursements,
the amount of which services and disbursements said judge
shall determine, upon the aptpllication of such receiver; and
said receiver shall pay over e amount by him collected to
the officer who has said execution, after deducting the expenses of collection as allowed b said judge, and the said
oilicer shall endorse the same on t e execution.

SECT. 188. It shall be the duty of the said judge when
he appoints such receiver to take a bond, payable to the
creditor in such execution, with surety‘ in such sum as said
judge shall deem reasonable, With con °tion to be void upon
the faithful performance of his duty as receiver aforesaid;
and the fees of such ‘udge for appointing such receiver and
taking such bond s 11 be two ollars, and for stating and

allowing said account of the receiver, two dollars.

SE01‘. 189. If the oiiicer having said execution shall
elect to receive tolls at more than one gate upon such road,

it shall be the dut of such judcreto appoint a receiver for
each, to collect tolls thereat; and such jlud e shall desi ate
the amount which an one of them s collect, an authorize the other to co lect the amount requisite in addition
thereto, to satisfy the execution and the aforesaid charges,
taking bond as aforesaid from each; and the officer holdin
said execution may put said receivers in ossession of suc
gates as he may designate, and the sha collect and pay
over to him in manner as herein be ore provided where one
receiver only is a pointed.

SE01‘. 190. henever a receiver of the tolls of an
turnpike coemipany or toll bridge company has been or sha 1
be appoint , pursuant to the provisions aforesaid, such
portions of the tolls collected by said receiver, as the judge
of the county court in the county where the gate at which
such tolls are collected is situated shall from time to time
order and direct, shall be expended in the necessary repairs
of the road or bridge, for passing which the said ate is authorized to be erected; and the said repairs shal be made
by such person or persons as said judge may appoint for
that purpose.

Siwr. 191. Said judge shall adjust and settle the accounts of such receiver, at such times as he may deem exedient, and thereupon order the unexpended balance in
his hands to be aid to the creditor or creditors in the
execution, until t e sums mentioned therein for debt and
costs, and the interest thereon, together with the ofIicer’s
fees for serving the same, shall have been fully paid and
satisfied. '

SE01‘. 192. In case personal estate ,of the debtor sufficient to satisfy the debt and charges cannot be found, and
the creditors shall not agree to accept or take the debtor’s
lands, the oiiicer shall levy the execution on the body of
the debtor, unless exempted by law from imprisonment on
said execution, and him commit to the common jail in the
county in which the execution is levied, where he shall remain till he pay the debt and the lawful fees and char es,
or be discharged in due coiuse of law. And every 0 cer
who shall commit any person to prison by virtue of distress
or execution, shall deliver a copy of the writ or execution,
signed by such oiiicer, to the kee er of the jail, which shall
be a suiiicient warrant to him to old such person in safe
custody till he be delivered in due course of law. If the
_debtor, after the le of such execution u on his body as
-aforesaid, shall bevdischar ed or release from such imprisonment, or if released y the officer serving the execution, by direction of the creditor, he shall not be liable
to imprisonment again on the judgment upon which such

execution issued, but the same may be collected out of the
property of the debtor.*

Sncr. 193. When the body of any person is attac-hed,w
and for want of bail is committed to prison, the person so}
committed shall not be holden in prison by virtue of such
commitment for a longer time than five days after the!
risin of the court in which final 'udgment shall be rendere ; and in case no execution s all be taken out and
levied upon the person of such imprisoned debtor within
five days as aforesaid, the keeper of the jail, upon his fees
being paid, may not hold such prisoner any longer by virtue of such commitment.

Sncr. 194. No execution issued in an action founded on ‘
contract merely, express or implied, shall be levied on the ,
body of the debtor, except in actions founded on promises.
to marry, on misconduct or neglect in an oiiice or professional employment, or in actions institute against a public
officer, trustee, or any person acting in a fiduciary capacity,
to recover monies collected, or received b him.1'

Sxcr. 195. When personal estate, suliiycient to ay the:
sum mentioned in the execution and the lawful flies and}
charges, cannot be found by the officer, or shall not be
tendered by the debtor, or his attorney, to be taken on such
execution, then such officer by the direction of the creditor,
or his attorney, may levy the same on the lands, tenements,
or real estate of the debtor, holden in his own right, and
the same shall be appraised by three indifferent freeholders
of the town where the lands lie, or if that town be a arty,
then of the next ad'oining town, one of whom shall e appointed by the cre itor, and another b the debtor, and if
they do not agree’ in appointing a thir , or if either party
neglect to appoint, the officer ma apply to any justice of
the peace in the town, who by aw may judge between
them in civil causes, who shall appoint one or more appraisers, as the case may require; which appraisers, being
sworn according to law, shall make an estimate of suc
land or real estate, accordin to its true value, in writin
under their hands, or the ham s of either two of them, an
the same deliver to such officer : who shall thereupon set
out to the creditor, by metes and bounds, so much of the
lands as may be sufficient, at the ap raisal, to pay the debt
on the execution, and the lawful c arges, if sufficient, if

travel; and he shall then return such execution into the

office of the clerk of the court from whence it issued, there

to be kept on file. And all executions, served, returned,
and recorded, as aforesaid, shall vest all the title of the

debtor in the creditor, his heirs, and assigns.*
Sncr. 197. Whenever the debtor in an execution shall

be the owner of the whole or any part of any equity of redem tion in a mortgage of both real and personal estate, it,

sh be lawful for the creditor in such execution, to cause
the same to be levied upon the interest of the debtor, in
both said real and ersonal estate; and such interest shall
be appraised, and t e whole or any part thereof, may be set
off to the creditor in pa meut or satisfaction of such execution; and ap raisers s all be appointed, and all other
proceedings sha be had in the same manner as is or shall

e by law provided for the levy of executions upon real
estate.

Sncr. 198. Whenever any real estate which lies in different towns or counties, is owned by tenants in common,
or joint tenants, the interest of such tenants in such real
estate, may be levied upon by warrant or execution, by any
proper oihcer, who may legally serve civil process in any
one of the towns or counties in which a part of said estate
is situated, and set out in the same manner as if the whole
of said estate were situated in any one town; and whenever
the interest of a tenant in common, or joint tenant, in any
real estate situated in different towns or counties as aforesaid, is levied upon by warrant or execution, in manner
aforesaid, the same ma be appraised b three indifferent
freeholders of either of the towns in whic any part of said
real estate is situated, to be chosen and appointed in the
same manner as is provided by the one hundred and ninetyiifth section of this act.

SECT. 199. Whenever an execution is levied on lands,‘
tenements, or real estate, and the town in which such lands,:
tenements, or real estate, is situated, is a party to, or inter-5

ested in such execution, if the parties, or either of them,
shall neglect to appoint or agree u on any appraiser or appraisers, the officer making the evy may apply to any
justice of the peace in the next adjoining town, who may

by law jud between the parties in civil causes, and said
justice sha appoint one or more appraisers as the case may

r nire.
“hear. 200. Whenever any real estate, which lies in dif'ferent town or counties, is included in the same mortgage
deed, the equity of redemption in the whole of the mort'gaged remises may be levied upon b warrant or execution, y any proper officer who may egally serve civil
process in any one of the towns or counties in which a part
of said real estate is situated, in the same manner as if the
whole of said mortgaged premises were situated in any one
town.

SEOT; 201. Whenever the equity of redemption in any
freal estate, situated in different towns or counties as aforesaid, is levied upon by warrant or execution, in manner

aforesaid, the same may be appraised by three indifferent
freeholders, of either of the towns in which any art of said
mortgaged premises is situated, to be chosen an a pointed
in the same manner as now provided by the one undred
and ninety-flfth section of this act.

L SE01‘. 202. Whenever an execution shall be levied on
‘lands, tenements, or other real estate, of the debtor, in all
other respects accordin to law, except that the officer
le ing such execution, s all, b mistake or otherwise, have
en orsed on said execution, an have embraced in his levy,
other and greater fees than the said officer shall be entitled
to, such levy shall not on that account be rendered void.*

SE01‘. 203. On the levy of an execution on real estate,
"there shall be allowed to each appraiser sixty-seven cents
per day; to a surveyor, when necessarily employed, one

ollar and fifty cents per day; to each chain-bearer, necessarily employed, sixty-seven cents r day; to a justice of
the peace for administering the oat to the appraisers, and
for appointing appraisers, when necessary, twenty-five
cents; to the town-clerk for recording the execution and
the returns thereon, twent -five cents for each pa e thereof
consisting of two hundred and eighty words, w ich sums
shall, by.the officer levying such execution, be endorsed
thereon, together with his fces.(’)

CHAPTER XV.

OF CERTAIN’ PARTICULAR ACTIONS AND PROCEEDINGS.

I. OF ACCOUNT.

SE01‘. 204. Whenever a judgment shall‘ be rendered
against the defendant in an action of account, that he do‘
account, the court shall appoint not more than three able,
disinterested, and judicious men to take the account, who
shall be sworn according to law, and shall have ower to
appoint the time and place for the hearing, and s iall give
reasonable notice thereof to the parties; and if the defendant shall refuse to attend at the time and place appointed,
and produce his books, and render his account, the auditors
shall receive from the plaintifff his statement of the account,
and award to him the whole sum he claims to be due.*

S1-zcr. 205. If the arties appear and produce their,
books, the auditors sh have power to administer an oath
to them and examine them respecting their accounts, and‘
to inquire of any other lawful witnesses; and if either party
shall refuse to be sworn, or to answer any proper questions
respecting his account, the auditors may commit him to jail,
there to continue till he will consent to be sworn and answer all proper interrogatories; and the auditors shall
liquidate and ad'ust the accounts, and award that the party
in whose favor e find the balance to be due, shall recover the same, and all make report to the same or the next]
succeeding session of the court. The arty in whose favor
the report is made, shall pay to the auditors their fees and,
expenses, which shall be allowed in the bill of cost; and on
the return and acceptance of the re ort, the court shall.
render judgment that the party in W ose favor it is made

shall recover the sum found to be due, with his lawful cost.
And no appeal shall be allowed on any judgment given on
a report of auditors.*

Sncr. 206. In actions of account brought before justices
of the eace, when judgment is rendered that the defendant sha account, they shall take and adjust the account,
without the appointment of auditors, and render judgment
according1y.1'

SE01‘. 207. . An executor, who is also residuary legatee,
when all or any part of his legacy is withholden from him

“by his co-executor, may bring his action of account against
his co-executor for the recovery thereof ; and the like action
shall be allowed to residuary legatees against executors.
When two persons hold any estate as joint tenants, tenants
in common, or co-parceners, if one of them shall receive,
use, or take benefit of such estate in greater proportion than
the amount of his interest in the rincipal estate, he and
his executors or administrators sh be liable to render an
account to his co-tenant; and such co-tenant, his executors
or administrators, may bring an action of account against
such receiver, and recover such sum as he has received
more than his proportion as aforesaid.

II. OF ARBITRATION AND AMCICABLE SUITS.

SECT. 208. All persons desiring to end any dispute or
controversy by arbitration, may agree that their submission
to arbitrators shall be made a rule of the superior court, or
of any of the count courts, or city courts, and may insert
their agreement in t e submission; and an affidavit of such

eement being produced and filed in court, shall be entere of record, and a rule of court shall thereupon be made,
that the parties shall submit to and be finally concluded by
such arbitration; or any persons desiring to end a controversy as aforesaid, may personally appear before the superior court, or any county court, or city court, and acknowledge that they have mutually agreed to refer all their matters of difference, or any particular dis ute, to the arbitrament of certain persons, by them agr on and named, and
on their desiring such submission to be made a rule of court
the same may be entered of record, and a rule of court shall
thereupon be made, that the parties shall submit to and be
finally concluded by such arbitration; and in either of the
above cases, the award of the arbitrators bein returned
into court and accepted by the same, judgment s all be rendered thereon for the party in whose favor the award is
made, to recover the sum awarded to be paid to him, with
additional costs; and execution shall be granted accordingly, if the fparty against whom the award is made shall neglect or re use to rform the same.*

SE01‘. 209. en any personal action shall be pending
in court, if the parties desire to refer the same to arbltration,
each may choose one person to be an arbitrator, and the
court may appoint a third; and the award of such arbitrators, returned into court and accepted, shall be an end of —
such controvers , and judgment shall be rendered pursuant
to the same, an execution granted thereon, with costs.1'

Sncr. 210. When disputes shall be submitted to arbitration by act of the parties or rule of court, the necessary
witnesses ma be summoned and sworn, and shall be responsible to e parties for refusing to attend, as in trials at
law; and if gui ty of false swearing, shall be liable to the
penalties of pe °ury.

SECT. 211. arties to a question in difference, which]
might be the subject of an action at law or in equity be-.
tween such arties, may, without action, agree upon a case:
containing t e facts upon which the controversy depends,‘

and present a submission of the same to the superior court
in the county in which either of the parties reside, or in
which a suit might have been brought to determine such
controversy. But it must appear by affidavit of the parties, or their respective attornies, that the controversy is
real, and the proceeding] in good faith to determine the
rights of the parties. '1 e court shall thereupon hear and
determine the case, and render judgment thereon as if an
action were depending.

SECT. 212. Judgment shall be entered as in other cases,
but without including costs. The parties shall, before any
such case shall be entered on the docket, pay the court and
clerk’s fees, as on a trial.

SECT. 213. Judgment in such cases ma be enforced in
the same manner as if it had been rendere in an action.

S1101‘. 214. If either party to such submission shall desire a review of any question of law arising thereon, and

»decided by such su er1or court, he shall have remedy by

motion in error to t e su reme court of errors, in the same
manner as is now provi ed bylaw in case of final judgment in the superior court, and not otherwise.

SECT. 215. All costs incurred in any such trial before
the superior court, or upon any such motion in error, shall
be borne equally by the parties, claimant and defendant.

III. OF BOOK DEBT.

Sncr. 216. In all actions of debt on book, the arties
and other persons interested may be witnesses to al matters admissible in evidence; and the triers shall well Wei h
and consider the credit of such witnesses, to ether with t e
entries of the parties in their respective ooks, and the
other evidence.

Saar. 21?. When the defendant, in any actionof debt ‘
on book, shall have pleaded any plea, under which any:
book account in his favor, against the plaintifff, may be giv-z
en in evidence, the court, on motion of the laintiff, made
in reasonable time, may order that oyer shall be 'ven to
the plaintifff of the book of the defendant, either fo with, or
within such time as the court may rescribe.

Saar. 218. In ever action of ebt on book, wherein‘
the account shall be a eged to be above seventeen dollars,;
the court before which such action is pending may a point
not more than three able, judicious, and disinterested) men
to audit and adjust the accounts between the parties, who
shall have the same power and be sworn and proceed in the
same manner as auditors in a proper action of account.
The party in whose favor the report is made, shall ay to
the auditors their fees and expenses, which shall he owed
in the bill of cost; and in the return and acceptance of the
report, the court shall render judgment that the party in
w ose favor it is made shall recover the sum found to be
due, with his cost; and no ap al shall be allowed on any
judgment given on a report 0 auditors.* (’)

SECT. 219. In every action of debt on book, the defend-1
ant may plead, in addition to the general plea, that he owes j
the plaintifff nothin , that the plaintifff is indebted to him,i
the defendant, to ba ance book account; and if it shall so
be found on the trial, judgment shall be rendered for the clefendant, to recover ot the plaintifff the sum so found to be
due, with costs; and the party aggrieved by the judgment,
on such plea, shall have the same right of appeal as he
would have had if the action had been brought by the defendant, demanding the same sum as that claimed in said
plea; provided, nevertheless, that if in an such action

rought before a ustice of the peace, the de endant, in his
plea, shall claim a eater balance than thirty-five dollars,
such plea shall not e received unless the part making the
same shall enter into a recognizance, with sutlllcient surety,
to the adverse party, in a reasonable sum, to remove said
cause to, and pursue his plea before, the county court next
to be holden in the county, and to answer all damages in
case he shall fail to make his plea good; which recognizance the said justice shall have power to take, and, when

taken, he shall record said plea; and if the defendant, having made the dplea and having entered into the recognizance aforesai , shall fail to enter the cause in the docket of
the court to which it is removable, within the first three
days of the term of such court, the plaintifff may enter the

"same in such docket, where it shall he proceeded with and

tried, or otherwise disposed of, in the same manner as if it
had been brought there by appeal; and if the defendant,
having removed the cause as aforesaid, shall not recover
final judgment for a eater sum than thirty-five dollars,
he shall not be entiged to costs; and if f1nal judgment
shall be rendered against him, he shall be subjected to

double costs.

Sncr. 220. If any defendant in any action of debt on
book, shall neglect to exhibit his account on trial to be adjusted as aforesaid, and shall afterwards brin an action
against the other party for the recove of suc articles of
book debt as might have been adjuste and settled in the
trial of the former action, if he recover jud ent for such
debt, he shall not be allowed any costs, un ess he make it
appear, to the satisfaction of the court before whom the
trial is, that he had no knowled e of the former suit before
the time of trial, or was inevita ly hindered from appearing and exhibiting his account as aforesaid.*

E01‘. 221. The action of debt on book, shall be a remedy concurrent and co-extensive with the action of eneral
assumpsit for the use and occupation of houses, lan s, tenements or other real estate.1[In addition, 18.52.]

[SEC'l‘. 1. The action of debt on book, shall be a proper
remedy in all cases, for the use and occupation of houses,
lands, tenements or other real estate.

SE01‘. 2. That all acts and parts of acts, inconsistent with
the provisions of this act, be and the same are hereby repealed.]

Iv. or nrssmsm.

Sncr. 222. In any action of disseisin instituted by a
mortgagee of real estate, or by any ‘person holding title
under him, to obtain possession of suc estate by virtue of
title derived by mortgage, against the mort agor, or any
person holding title to said estate under him, t e defendant

may tender the amount of the debt, with the interest to
the time of the tender, and the costs of suit, and such tender shall be a bar to the further prosecution of such action.
SE01‘. 223. In every action of disseisin to recover possmion of lands of any defendant in possession, who has 1:
urchased the lands believing that he acquired an uncon-2
gitional title by such purchase, or who holds under those sf
who have thus purchased, or who has derived a supposed{,‘]
title b devise, inheritance, or otherwise, from those wholq
have t us purchased, and such defendant, or those under“
whom he holds, or from whom he claims to have derived
a title, have made valuable improvements thereon, under
a belief that he or they acquired a good title by such purchase, devise, inheritance, or other conveyance, and the
verdict of the jury shall be for the plaintifff ; the court
before whom such action may be pending shall, on motion
filed by the defendant or other parties in interest, on finding that such improvements have been made under a belief
that a good title had been procured and was in the defendant, before rendering final Judgment and issuing execution,
proceed, by hearing, or committee, according to the rules
in equity proceedin , to take an account between the arties in interest; an in taking such account, there s all]
be allowed to the defendant, or other parties in interest,}
the value of such improvements, and to the plaintifff as
reasonable sum for the use of said land, as far as the same‘
shall be equitably due from such defendant or parties in
interest, and the court shall order and decree the balance
so found due to be paid; and final judgment shall not be
rendered in said action, nor the same avail the laintiif for
any purpose, until the sum so found due for suc improvements be paid; provided, that if the laintiff shall elect to‘
have the title confirmed in the defen ant, and shall, upon‘
the rendition of such verdict, make such election, and file@
his motion therefore, the court shall, by hearing, or committee, a
ascertain the sum which ought in equity to be aid b the
defendant, or other parties in interest, to the p uint' , and

may, upon payment thereof, confirm the title in the party
paying the same.

V. OF FOECHBLE ENTRY AND DETAINER.

SE01‘. 224. Whenever any person shall make forcible entry into an houses, lands or tenements, and with a strong
hand shall etain the same ; or havin made a peaceable entry, without the consent of the actua possessor, shall hold
and detain the same with force and strong band; the party

thus ejected, or held out of possession, may exhibit his complaint to the judge of the county court, and to one justice
of the peace in the county where such houses, lands, or
tenements, are situated, or to a county commissioner and
justice of the peace in said county, statin the injury of
which he complains; and such judge an justice or commissioner and justice, shall forthwith issue a summons to the
party complained of, directed to some roper officer, to notify and require him to appear at suc p ace as they shall
appoint, in the town where the injury complained of was
done, within eight days at least, to answer to the matters
contained in such com laint; which summons shall be

served upon him by re ' g, or by leavin a copy at his

- usual place of abode, six days inclusive be ore the day appointed for trial; and if after service of such summons, the
party complained of shall not appear and defend, such
judge and justice, or commissioner and justice, shall proceed
in t e same manner as if he were present.*

SE01‘. 225. Such judge and justice, or commissioner and
justice, shall make out a warrant, under their hands, directed to the sheriff of the count or his deputy, or to either of
the constables of the town w ere the injury complained of
was done, (such officer not being interested in the cause, or
so related to either of the parties that he could not judge,)
commanding him to summon twelve able and judicious e ectors of the county, qualified to act as urors, to appear at the
time and place appointed for the tria ; which jury shall be
duly impanneled, and sworn according to law, to in uire
into the forcible entry, or forcible detainer, complain of;
and if a suiiicient number of ijfurors, qualified to sit in the
cause, do not appear, the sheri or constable shall forthwith
return a sufficient number of other able and judicious electors of the county, ualified to act as jurors, to fill the panel ;
and said judge an(d justice, or_ commissioner and justice,
shall proceed to make inquiry and shall hear all the proper
evidence offered b the parties; and if the jury find that a
forcible entry has een made into the houses, lands, or tenements, or that the same are detained with force and strong
hand, as com lained of, then such judge and justice, or commissioner an justice, shall render judgment that the complainant shall be restored to, and re-seized of, the premises,
and shall award a writ of restitution accordin ly; and the
complainant shall recover his lawful costs, of t e person or

persons complained of, and execution shall be anted therefore accordingly. But if the my shall find t e erson or
persons complained of not guilty, then costs shall e taxed
in their favor against the complainant, and execution grant»
ed for the same.*

[An Act relatirig to proceedings in prosecutions for Forcible ntries and Detainers. 1854.]

[That whenever a  is to be impanneled for the trial.
of any prosecution for a orcible entry and detainer, pursuant to the provisions of the two hundred and twenty-f1fth:
section of “ An Act for the regulation of Civil Actions,”
the jurors to compose such panel shall be by the officer to
whom the venire is directed, drawn from the jury boxes of
the towns in the count r, in which the trial is to be had, in
the same manner, and shall be summoned in the same manner, as jurors _to serve in the superior and county courts,
and to be drawn and summoned accordi 0- to the provisions
of the one hundred and seventh section 0 said act.

And not more than three jurors shall be so drawn from
the jury box of any one of such towns in such case. But
in case a sufficient number of the jurors so drawn and summoned and qualiiied to sit in the cause shall not appear, the
sheriff, de uty sheriff or constable in attendance upon the
court, sh 1 forthwith return a sufficient number of other
able and judicious electors of the county, qualified to act as
jurors in the case, to fill the panel.]

Sncr- 226. No appeal shall be allowed from the judgment of such judge and justice, or commissioner and justice,
nor shall any complaint or action be prosecuted for a forcible entry and detamer, but within six months after the making of the entr complained of.

SE01‘. 227. e judgment that shall be rendered, in such
prosecutions, shall not affect the title to such houses, lands,
or tenements, and shall not be a bar to a proper action
brought for the trial of the same. '

SECT. 228. The party aggrieved may recover treble
dam es, and costs of suit, by action of trespass, against the
defen ant or defendants, if it be found by verdict of the
jury, or otherwise, in due form of law, that he or they entered into houses, lands, or tenements, by force, or after entry, held the same by force.1'

VI. OF FOREIGN ATTACHMENT.

SECT. 229. Whenever the goods or effects of a debtor
are concealed in the hands of his attorney, agent, factor, or
trustee, so that they cannot be found to be attached, or
where debts are due from any person to a debtor, any creditor may bring his action against such debtor, and insert
in his writ a direction to the oiiicer to leave a true and attested copy thereof, at least fourteen days before the session
of the court to which it is returnable, with such debtor’s attorney, agent, factor, trustee or debtor,‘ or at the place of
his or their usual abode, and it shall be the duty of the officer serving such writ, to leave a copy thereof according to
such direction; and from the time of leaving such copy, all
the goods and effects in the hands of such attorney, agent,
factor or trustee, and any debt due from such debtor to the
defendant, shall be secured in his hands, to pay such judgment as the plaintifff shall recover, and may not otherwise
be disposed of, by such attorney, agent, factor, trustee, or
debtor; and such service shall be sufficient notice to the
defendant to enable the plaintifff to bring the action to trial,
unless the defendant be an inhabitant of this state, or has
sometime resided therein; and then a like co y shall be
left at his last or usual place of abode; provi ed that so
much of any debt which has accrued by reason of the per_sonal services or labor of the debtor, as shall not exceed ten

dollars, shall be exempt from the process of foreign attachment.*

[In addition, June 13, 1850.]
[SECT. 1. That all benefits or sums of money which may

hereafter be appropriated or allowed by any association of 1
persons in this state, toward the sup ort of any member of :
such association, who by reason ofp sickness or infirmity.
shall have been rendered incapable of attending to his usual '
business, shall be exempted, and not liable to be taken upon
any process of foreign attachment, warrant or executlon,
for any debt or demand whatsoever.

SECT. 2. This act shall take effect from its passage, any
law to the contrary notwithstanding.]

Smcr. 230. Such attorne , agent, factor, trustee, or debt-.
or, upon his desire, shall e admitted to defend his prin-{
cipal in such suit; but if the defendant be not in this state, ‘
and does not appear, by himself or attorney, and the attorne , agent, factor, trustee, or debtor, with whom such copy
is eft 1n service, does not ap ear to defend, then the court
shall continue the action to t e next court, and may order
notice to be given by ublishing the pendency of the suit in
some newspaper, or ot erwise, as they think proper; and if
the defendant should not then appear, the court may, if they
judge proper, order the action to be continued once more, to
give an opportunity to notify the defendant of the pendency
of the suit ; and then, unless some special matter be alle ed
for further delay, the cause shall come to trial; but w en
the action is brouo-ht before a justice of the eace, in case
the defendant sha 1 not be in this state, an no attorney,
agent, factor, trustee, or debtor, appear to defend him, such
'ustice of the peace shall adjourn the cause for a term not
less than three, nor more than nine months; and then, unless special reasons be given for a further dela , such action
shall come to trial; and if judgment be ren ered in favor
of the plaintifff, all the goods and effects in the hands of such
attorney, aoent, factor, or trustee, and the debt due from such
debtor, sha 1 be liable to pay the same; and the plaintifff, on
praying out an execution, may direct the odicer serving the
same, to make demand of such attorney, agent, factor, or
trustee, of the goods and effects of the defendant in his»
hands, whose duty it shall be to expose the same to be taken
on the execution; and also to make demand of such debtor,
of any debt due to the defendant, and it shall be the duty
of such debtor to pay the same; and if such attorney, ao-ent,
factor, or trustee, shall have, in an manner, dis osed o the
goods and effects of the principa in his han ,when the
copy of the writ was left with him, or shall not expose and
su ject them to be taken on the execution ; or if such debtor shall not pay to the officer, when demanded, the debt
due to the defendant, at the time the copy of the writ was
left with him, such attorney, a s ent, factor, trustee, or debtor, shall be liable to satisfy suc judgment out of his own

estate, as his proper debt, if the oodsor effects, or debt, be
of sufficient value or amount ; i not, then to the value of
such goods or effects, or to the amount of such debt. And
a scire facias may be taken out from the clerk of the court
where the judgment was rendered, to be served upon such
attorney, agent, factor, trustee, or debtor, requirin him to
appear before such co1u't, and show cause, it any e have
to the contrar ; and it shall be lawful for the laintiif to
require, and t e defendant shall have right to isclose on
oath, whether he has an of the goods or effects of the debtor in his hands, or whet er he is indebted to him ; and the
parties may introduce any other proper testimony respectmg such fact. If it be found that the defendant has the
goods or effects of such debtor in his hands, or is indebted
to him, or if he makes default of appearance, or refuses to
disclose on oath, judo-ment shall be rendered against him, as
for his own debt, to be paid out of his own goods or estate
with lawful costs; and execution shall be anted accordinglg; provided, that if it appear on the tri , that the goods
or e ‘ects are of less value, and the debt of less amount, than
the 'udgment recovered against the debtor, then judgment
shal be rendered to the value of the woods, or to the amount
of the debt; and if it appear that thetdefendanthas no goods
or effects of such debtor, in his hands, or is not indebted to
him, then he shall recover his lawful costs.* (1)

[In addition, 1852.]

[S1zo'r. 2. Whenever the garnishee in any action com,menced by process of foreign attachment, shall have removed from this state, prior to the issuing of the writ of execution, upon the judgment in such action, so that no demand can be made of such garnishee in person, by the officer serving such writ, for the ayment of such execution,
or for the goods, chattels or e ects of the defendant in the

hands of such garnishee, the clerk of the court issuing such
Writ of execution, may, at the request of the creditor or of
his attorne , endorse thereon an order signed by such clerk,
requiring t e officer to Whom such Writ IS directed, to make
said demand by letter forwarded by mail, postage paid, addressed to such arnishee, or in such other manner as said
clerk shall consi er, will, under the circumstances of the
case, be most effectual for the purpose for which such demand is required; and such demand, when so made, shall‘
be as effectual as if made of the arnishee ersonally: Provided however, that if such garnis 166- shall have lodged with
the clerk of said court, a written notice, under his hand, of
the appointment of an agent or attorney, as provided in the
preceding section, such officer shall make the like demand
of such agent or attorney if within his precincts, and return
thereof make on such execution.] (I)

SECT. 231. When a scire facias shall be brought against
any attorney, agent, factor,.or trustee, or debtor, of a debtor, on a udgment rendered by a justice of the peace, such
scire facias shall be sio'ned- by the justice renderin the
judgment; and when the demand does not exceed 1irtyhve dollars, shall be made retumable before the same ustice
of the peace ;but when the demand shall exceed thirty-five
dollars, the same shall be returnable before the county count
‘in the county where the laintiif or defendant dwells; and if
the justice rendering suc judgment, shall be removed from
office, by death or otherwise,before an scire facias is taken
out thereon, such writ may be signed by, and when the demand does not exceed thirty-five dollars, be made returnable before, any 'ustice of the peace, as in other cases; but
when the demand exceeds thirty-five dollars, such writ shall
be made returnable before the county court, as aforesaid.

'[In addition, 1852.]

[SECT. 3. In case a Writ of scire facias shall be issued
against a garnishee who shall have removed from, or be re-l
siding out of this state, after the service of the original pro—:
cess of foreign attachment, and of Whom demand shall havej
been made as aforesaid, service of said writ of scire facias
shall be made in such manner as the udge of the court. renderin udgment in the original suit, or the clerk thereof,‘
shall,gby a written order thereon by him subscribed, direct;
and if such garnishee shall have filed with the clerk of said
court, a notice of the appointment of an agent or attorney
as aforesaid, then such writ of scire facias shall be further
served, by leaving with such agent or attorney a true and
attested copy of t e same; and process so issued and served,

shall be as good and effectual against such garnishee, as if
served upon him personally.] (’)

SECT. 232. The taking of any goods or effects of any
debtor, or any debt due to him as aforesaid, by process and
judgment of law, outof the hands of his attorney, a ent, factor, trustee, or debtor, by any of his creditors, shal forever
discharge him or them from any suit or demand for the
same; and if sued for any thin done in compliance with

{this act, he or they may plead e general issue, with notice,
and give the rovisions of this act in regard to foreign attachment, an the special matter in evidence.*

, SECT. 233. When it shall ap ear on the hearing of the

-scire facias, that the debt due to t e principal is not yet pay"able, the court shall direct the execution to be stayed until
the time the debt would have become payable; and when
the debt was not payable at the time the demand was made

- on the execution, the court shall allow the garnishee his

reasonable costs for defendjn against such scire facias, to be
deducted out of the debt so ue.

S1«3c'r. 234. Whenever a scire facias shall be brought to
recover a debt due to a debtor or the oods or effects of a
debtor, in case any person or persons, eit er jointly or severally, claim such debt as assignee or assignees thereof, or such
goods or effects as owner or owners thereof, the defendant
in such scire facias having notice or knowledge of such assignment, ownership, or claim, may give notice in writing,
signed by proper authority, and duly served, to such claimant or claimants, or his or their attorney, that such scire facias is pending, and he or they may appear, if they see
cause, and defend against such scire facias ; and thereupon,
unless such claimant or claimants shall, within such time as
the court before whom the scire facias is pendin , may
direct, give to such defendant sufficient security, to t e approbation of the court, to indemnify him against all costs,

e may suffer judgment by default or otherwise, to be given
against him on such scire facias, which shall be a bar to the
c aim of the assignee or assignees-of the debt, or the owner
or owners of the goods or effects ; and the defendant may
give the same in evidence, under the eneral issue in an action brought to recover the debt, or t e value of the goods
or effects. And in case such assiguee or amignees, owner
or owners, shall give such security, and make effectual defense against the scire facias, he or they shall be entitled to
the bill of costs that shall be recovered against the plaintifff;

but if he or they fail to make an effectual defense, the judgment that may be rendered on the scire facias against the
defendant, shall be a bar to any claim against him, and he
may*give it in evidence under the general issue, with notice.

SE01‘. 235. Whenever the assignee of a debt, or the
owner of goods or effects, shall have given security as aforesaid, if the defendant, on due notice given him, shall neglect
to appear and disclose on oath, if required, on the trial of
such scire facias; or, in case a commission shall be issued,
shall neglect to make disclosure before the commissioners,
he shall take no benefit of the provisions aforesaid, nor of
the security given as aforesaid.

Swr. 236. In case any action shall be commenced, or
having been commenced, shall be prosecuted, in the name
of the original creditor, to recover any debt, or in the name
of any person claiming to be owner, to recover the value of
any goods or effects, while such debt, goods, or effects, are
under the lien of a foreign attachment, it shall be in the discretion of the court, accordin to the circumstances of the
case, if final judgment be ren ered in favor of the plaintifff,
to allow costs to the defendant, to be deducted out of such
debt, or out of the value of such goods or effects, or to allow
costs to the plaintifff, or to allow no costs to either party.

SECT. 237. The court before which a scire facias shall.
be pending, shall have power to issue a commission to take‘
the disclosure of the defendant on oath, whenever, on ac-'
count of his living out of the state, or his bein about to
go out of the same, or his being unable to trave , through
age, sickness, or bodily infirmity, the court shall ind e itto
be reasonable. The goods or effects, or debts, of a ebtor,
shall not be holden or secured in the hands of his attorney,
agent, factor, trustee, or debtor, by virtue of any 'udgment
rendered against the debtor, unless they shall be demanded
of them within sixty days after the rendition of the judgment; and no writ of scire facias shall be maintained:
against such attorney, a ent, factor, trustee, or debtor, un-1
less the same be broug t within one year next after the;
right of bnngigi the same shall have accrued. Swr. 238. e plaintifff, in a suit by foreign attachment, may, at his discretion, insert in the writ a direction;
to the attorney, agent, factor, trustee, or debtor, of the de-,
fendant, to appear before the court to which the same is returnable, to answer and disclose on oath, whether he has in

his hands the goods or effects of the defendant, or is indebted to him; and if such garnishee shall appear, the
court are em owered to examine him on oath, respecting
the same, an to make other in uiry by proper testimony;
and if it shall appear to them t iat such garnishee has not
the goods or effects of the defendant in his possession, or is
not indebted to him, he shall be entitled to recover his costs,
and jud ent shall be rendered in his favor therefore. But

if it sha 1 appear from such examination, that such garnishee has in his possession goods and effects of the defendant, or is indebted to him, then the court shall ascertain
the amount, and the same shall, on a scire facias against
the garnishee, be prima facie evidence of the facts so found;
but the defendant shall have right again to disclose on oath,
and the parties may introduce any other proper testimony
re arding such facts.*

EOT. 239. But if the garnishee shall neglect or refuse
to appear at the court to which the writ is returned, Without reasonable excuse, or shall refuse to disclose on oath,
Whether he has any ods or effects of the defendant in his
possession, or is inde ted to him; then if the plaintifff shall
bring a‘ scire facias against him, on a judgment recovered
a ainst the defendant in the suit, such garnishee shall be liab e to pay all the costs that shall have accrued on the scire
facias, though it shall appear that he had not any of the
goods or eflects of the debtor in his possession, and was not
indebted to him; and execution shall issue against him to
pay the same out of his estate.

..‘i«:cr. 240. When the garnishee appears at the return

of the writ, and submits to an examination, and it is found

that he has the goods or effects of the debtor in his possession, or is indebted to him, then, if the plaintifff withdrawshis suit, or fails to recover jud crment against the defendant, such garnishee shall be entitled to recover his lawful costs; and the court shall issue execution for the same
accordingly.

SECT. 2-11. Any debt, legacy, or distributive share, due,
or which ma become due, to any person, from the estate of

any decease person, or any debt due, or which may become

due, to any person, from any insolvent estate assi ued for
the benefit of creditors, may be attached in the haii s of the
executor, administrator, or trustee, by process of foreign attachment; provided that so much of any debt for personal
services as shall not exceed ten dollars, and such articles of
personal property bequeathed or to be distributed, as, if in”

the possession of thelegatee or distributee, would be exempt
from execution, shall be exempt from such attachment.*

S1201‘. 242. The garnishee shall be described as having
the goods and effects of the defendant in his hands, or as
being indebted to the defendant, as executor, administrator,
or trustee, and shall not, in the original process, be required
to disclose.

SECT. 243. Whenever any debt due, or which may become due, to any person, from the estate of a deceased person, which is settled as a solvent estate, shall be so attached,
the lien created by such attachment shall not continue, unless demand is made of the garnishee upon the execution
within sixty days after the rendition of the judgment, or
within sixty days after the expiration of the time limited
for the defendant to present lllS claim against the estate.

SE01‘. 244. Whenever any legacy or distributive share
due, or which may become due to any person, from the
estate of a deceased person, shall be so attached, the lien
created by such attachment shall not continue, unless demand is made of the garnishee upon the execution within
sixty days after the rendition of the judgment or within
sixty days after the time when, if such attachment had not
been made, it would have become the duty of the executor
or administrator, in the course of the settlement of the estate, to deliver to the defendant the legacy or distributive
share to which he is entitled.

SE01‘. 245. Whenever any debt due, or which may become due, to any person, from the estate of a deceased person which is settled as an insolvent estate, or from any in-=
solvent estate‘ assigned for the benefit of creditors, shall be
so attached, the lien created by such attachment, shall not
continue unless demand is made of the garnishee upon the
execution within sixty days after the rendition of the judgment, or Within sixty days after the report of the commissioners allowin the claim of the defendant, shall have been
returned to ang accepted by the court of probate; or, if
an appeal or review is allowed on such claim, Within sixty
days after the final allowance of such claim.

Sncr. 246. Wlieuever demand shall be made of they
garnishee upon the execution, in either of the cases men-j
tioned in the three preceding sections, within the periods:
therein specified, the garnishee may pay the debt, or deliver j
the legacies, or distributive share, so attached, to the officer
making the demand, to be applied on such execution; and
if at the time of such pa ment or delivery, the garnishee
would have been requirec by law to make such payment

or delivery to the defendant, if there had been no attachment, or would have been justified in so doing, he shall be
credited for such payment or delivery to the officer, in his
administration account. .

Smcr. 247. If, upon demand so made, the garnishee shall
neglect or refuse to make such payment or delivery, the
plaintifff in the foreign attachment may maintain a scire
facias ainst him, Wltlllll the time limited by law in other
cases, w ich shall be brought, and the judgment therein, if
the plaintifff shall recover, shall be rendered, against the
defendant as executor, administrator, or trustee, as aforesaid; and upon such udgment no execution shall be issued,
but the defendant may pay upon the same the whole or so
much of the monies, or of the value of the goods and effects attached, and for which he would otherwise have been
liable to the ori inal defendant, as may be necessary to satisfy the said  ment, which payment shall be credited to
such executor, a ministrator, or trustee, in his administration account; provided, that he shall not be credited with
the costs recovered on such scire facias, unless the court of
probate shall be of opinion that the executor, administrator, or trustee, was justified in incurring the same.

Sscr. 248. If the garnishee shall not pay such judgment

Las provided in the last section, the same may be recovered
by the attaching creditor in an action on the probate bond,
and not otherwise.

SEo'r. 249. Whenever any debt due, or to become due,
to any erson from an estate settled as a solvent estate, shall
be attac ed as herein before rovided, the attaching creditor
may, within the time limite for the presentment of claims

‘against such estate, present the debt so by him attached, to
-the executor or admmistrator; and in such case such debt
shall not be barred as a ainst such attaching creditor, notwithstanding the defen ant in the foreign attachment may
fail to present the same within the time so limited.

SE01‘. 250. Whenever any debt due, or to become due,

_ to any person, from an estate re resented insolvent, or from

‘an insolvent estate assigned or the benefit of creditors,
shall be attached as herem before provided, the attaching
creditor may, Within the time limited for the presentment
of claims against such estate, present the debt so by him
attached, to the commissioners on such estate, and may appear and be heard in relation thereto, and shall have the
same right of review or appeal as the defendant.

Snow. 251. Nothing in the two preceding sections shall
be construed as exempting any creditor of an estate, who
shall have neglected to present his claim against such estate
within the time limited, from any forfeiture or bar by reason of such neglect; but the resentment and proof of any
debt, as aforesaid, by an attac in creditor, shall enure to
the benefit of such attaching cre itor alone.

Saar. 252. If any executor, administrator, or trustee, in
whose hands any debt, legacy, or distributive share, shall
have been attached as aforesaid, shall die or be removed
pending the proceedings either on the original writ or on
the scire facias, upon proper suggestion being made upon
the record, such proceedings may be continued against the
survivor, or his successor in such trust, as the case ma be,
in the same manner as they might otherwise have been
against the original garnishee or garnishees.

[Act in addition to “ An Act relatin to Foreign Attachments.” 1852f

[SEC'l‘. 1. That whenever a debt evidenced by a negotiable promissor note, shall have been attached by process
of foreign attac unent, and the defendant shall have had
actual notice thereof, it shall not be lawful for the defendant to ne otiate or transfer such note, during the continuance of t e lien ac uired by such attachment.

SE01‘. 2. If the(iiefendant in any such suit, shall negotiate or transfer such note in violation of the provisions of
the preceding section, he shall be deemed guilty of fraud
upon the attaching creditor; and such creditor, in case he
shall recover judgment in his original suit, may, at any
time within one year after the rendition of such judgment,
institute an action on the case against the defendant, and
have process of attachment and execution against his body
to be proceeded with as in other actions of tort.

Sncr. 3. The title of any bona tide purchaser of such

note for valuable consideration, without notice, and before

maturity, shall not be affected by this act.]
[In addition, 1850.]

[That in suits b foreign attachment, the plaintifff shall
be entitled to all t e security which his debtor has for the

debt attached. Provided, that this act shall not affect any?

suit now pending.]
[In addition, 1853.]

[That in all actions which have heretofore been, or shall
hereafter be commenced by process of foreign attachment,i
and in which any person or persons have been, or may be;
made garnishees, without being cited to answer and dis-j
close, it shall be lawful for the court, u on rendering judg-.

ment therein, to tax and allow, or disa low, all or any part
of the fees of the officer, charged for service of the writ in
said action, upon any such garnishee, and such fees, if di.sallowed by the court, shall be paid to the oiliccr by the
plaintifff]

[SI~:cr. 1. That whenever any person, being the debtor
of another, or havinrr in his hands the goods and effects of
[such other person, siall refuse to pay him such debt, or
-deliver him such goods and effects on the alleged round
that he is the garmshee in a process of forei n attasiment
levied upon such debt, goods or effects, it slgiall be lawful
for the erson to whom such refusal of payment or delivery has een made, to institute his bill iniequity, in the nature of a bill of interpleader against such (lebtdr, the other
parties in said process of foreign attachment,~and any other
parties in interest. ‘ " '”

Sam. 2. The court before which such bill in e uity

;shall be brought shall have full power to decide to w om
such debt is due, or to whom such goods and effects belong;
what disposition shall be made of the same; and all other
matters connected with said proceeding that may be proper to do justice between the parties.

. SE01‘. 3. Said court shall also have power at all times

» to make all proper orders relating to the payment into
court, or the safe keeping of the fund or other matter in
controversy, and the payment or delivery of the same to
any of the claimants upon the substitution of satisfactory
bonds, and upon such other terms as the court shall order;
and said court may, if they ‘see fit, from time to time, require additional security for such fund.

SECT. 4. The petitioner in such bill in equity at any
time after the service of the same, and before the session
of the court to which the same is made returnable, may
apply to any judge of the superior court, if such bill is
brought to such court, if not, he may apply to the judge
of the court to which the same is brought, for an order reguiring the payment or delivery, by such garnishee, of such

ebt, oods or effects, upon the substitution of a satisfactory
bond sierefor, and such judge shall have the same power
in the premises as the court to which such bill is brought.

The judge to whom such application shall be made, shall
be paid the usual court fee by the petitioner, and all the
cost of such a plication shall be subject to the order of

the court to w 1cb such bill is brought]

VII. OF REPLEVIN.

SECT. 253. Writs of replevin shall be allowed in the
following cases only: First, in favor of any person to recover his cattle or other animals when impounded; second,

in favor of any person claiming to be the owner of goods
2111‘ chattels attached in any suit, other than the defendant
erein.*

S1-zcr. 254. \Vrits of replevin may be signed by any au-;
thority authorized to sign writs; except that writs of replevin to re levy property attached, when the debt or damggesdcllgdmgnnegl in htilfla y'rit.of a(t1ta}fhmentdshallfeti](1ceed three

im 0 a s e signe y a ju ge 0 e superior
court, or the judge of the county court in the county where
such property was attached.

SI-Jcr. 255. The authority sicrning a writ of replevin tot
replevy animals im ounded, sliall take a bond with siilli-3
cient surety to the a verse party conditioned that the plain-.
tiff shall prosecute his action to ieifect, and pay all damages
and costs which such party may recover against liim.’r

SECT. 256.. Writs of re levin to replevy animals im-I
poundefll‘, iglaysbhe inffthe‘ fgl oging form : G t_ '

o e eri o . 'c. ree in :

By authority of the State, of Connecticut, you areghereby
commanded, without delay, to cause to be replevied to A.
B., of his beasts, to wit, now distrained or impounded  C. D., of and by him unjustly detained,
as it is sai ; and you are to summon the said C. D., to appear before the county court to be holden at in and for
said county, on the Tuesday of next; then and
there to answer unto the said . B. in a plea of trespass,
wherein the said A. B. complains that the said O. D. on
the day of &c., at ’ in a certain place, called

&c., took the said beasts, and them unjustly impounded and detained, as aforesaid, until this time; which
is to the damage of the said A. B. the sum of dollars,
and thereforee he brings this suit, &c., the said A. B. having given bond according to law. Hereof fail not, and
make due return of this writ, with your doings thereon, &c.

Dated, &c. J. H. Justice ot the Peace.

SE01‘. 257. The bond on such writ may be in the followin form:

gYou and of acknowledge yourselvesi
jointly and severally bound to C. D., of in a recognizance of dollars, that A. B., of shall prosecute

the writ of replevin he hath now taken out against the said
O. D., at the county court, to be holden at on the

Tuesday of next, (or before the Ljuséice of tlcie peace
to whom the same is returnable) to fu e ect' an in case
he make not his plea good, satisfy such damages and costs
as the said O. D. shall recover against him.

SECT. 258. When the dama as demanded in such writ
exceed thirty-ti ve dollars, it shal be returnable to the county
court, otherwise to a justice of the eace. dlln the latiter
case if the defendant make avowry eman 'ng more an
seveh, and not exceeding thirty-five dollars dam es, the
izlctioln sha1(11 betlappealtagle to ‘the couglty cour(§,1p thoug(li1

e eman in e WI'l oes no excee seven 0 ars an
the art a ealin shall 've bond with suiiicient surety,
tpytIe)>ph'gal§olfl't d ealldama

o prosecu 1s appe e ec an answ r ges in case he make not his plea good; if the dama es demanded by the avowant shall exceed thirty-five ollars,
pinch action shall be relzlmovid dtpfthg ntexg c(:11;ntt_ytT1cc;ur1t, irdi

esamemannerasw en e en an pea 1 e 0 an

in an action of trespass; provided, that the avowant shall
recover no costs, unless he recovers more than thirty-five
dollars damages; and where the arties join issue upon a
plea of title to land, such action s all be removed in like
manner.*

Sncr. 259. If the plaintifff, in the Writ of replevin, shall

?'fail to a pear, or withdraw, or become nonsuit, before issue

joined, t en the defendant may make a sug estion in the
nature of an avowry, stating the injury he as sustained,
and his claim for damages, and the court shall proceed to inquire as on a hearin in damages, and shall render judgment
in favor of the defen ant, to recover such sum for the damages
he has ‘sustained, as they shall think just, and his costs; and
if the plaintifff shall withdraw, or become nonsuit, after
issue joined, and before trial, the court may, in like manner,
render judgment for the defendant to recover his damages
and costs.

SECT. 260. Before an writ of replevin shall be issuedto replevy pro erty attac ed, notice 1n Writing shall be served upon the p aintiif in the suit in which such attachment
was made, or upon his attorney, if either such plaintifff or
attorney reside within the state, and also on the officer serving the attachment, a reasonable time before issuing such
writ of replevin, that all ersons interested may be heard
relative to the‘ amount and sufhciency of the bond to be
taken on issuing the same‘!SE01‘. 261. The authority si ing such writ of replevin, I
shall take a bond to the plaintigpin the suit in which the
attachment was made, Wltll sufficient surety, in a sum equal
to the value of the pro erty attached, conditioned to prosecute his action of rep evin to effect, and on failure so to
do, to deliver the property attached to the officer who attached the same, or to the officer who shall have the execution issued in the original suit, so that_it may be taken on
such execution, and, on failure thereof, to pay the debt or
damage that may be recovered in such suit.*

SE01‘. 262. If the writ of attachment be founded in tort]
for the recovery of unliquidated damages, the authority!
issuing such writ of replevin, if it shall appear to him that:
the amount required to be attached is excessive, may take‘
a bond for such sum only as he shall deem reasonable.

Sscr. 263. The laintiff, in such writ of replevin,may1
cite the party attac 'ng the property ordered to be replev-<
ied, to ap car before a proper court, to answer to a charge
for unlawlhlly taking the same; and if such plaintifff shall
make out a title to such property, he shall have judgment
to retain it with his damages and costs; but if he shall fail
to make out a title, judgment shall be rendered against him
to return such property to the officer who attached it, or to
the oilicer who shall have the execution issued in the original suit, and, on failure thereof, to pay the value of such
property, or the debt, or damages, and costs, recovered in
the action in which they were attached, in case it exceeds
in value the amount of such debt, or damages, and costs.

Sscr. 264. The writ to replevy property attached, may
be in the following form:

To the Sheriff of &c. Greeting‘:
By authority of the State of Connecticut, you are ereby
commanded, without delay, to cause to be replevied to E.

F. of his goods and chattels, to wit: now in the

- possession of G. H. of sheriff, &c., by virtue of an
attachment in favor of A. B., of against 0. D., of
and you are to summon the said A. B. to appear

before the court, to be held at in and for the
count of on the Tuesdayof 18 then

and t ere to answer to the said E. F. in a plea of trespass,
wherein the plaintifff complains that the defendant, on the

da of 18 unlawfully took, and has ever
since un awfully detained the said goods and chattels of the
plaintifff, to his dam e the sum of dollars; to recover
which damages, with e possession of said goods and chattels

and his costs, he brings this suit. The said E. F. has given

bond according to law. Hereof fail not, &c.

Dated the day of 18
‘ O. S. Justice of the Peace.
Sscr. 265. The bond taken on issuing such writ, may
be in the following form:

You of acknowledge yourselves jointly and
severall bound to A. B., of in a recognizance of
dol ars, tliat E. F., of shall prosecute the writ

of replevin that he hath now taken out a ainst the said A.
B. to effect, and if he fail to do so, shall eliver the Goods
directed to be re levied, to the officer who attached the
same, or to the o cer who shall have the execution issued
in the suit in favor of the said A. B. against C. D., of
in which said property was attached, so that they may be
taken on said execution, and on failure thereof, to pay the
debt,‘ or damages and costs, that may be recovered in said
suit.

S1-zcrr. 266. The officer by whom such property was attached, shall deliver the same to the oihcer serving the

.writ of replevin, upon being served with a true and attested copy of the writ of replevin.

VII. OF SUMMARY PROCESS.

SECT. 267. Whenever a lease of any land, dwellinghouse, or other building, or of any apartment in such house
or other building, whether the same be in writing or by
parol, shall terminate by lapse of time, or by reason of an '
express stipulation thereof, and the owner or lessor shall
desire to obtain possession of the same at the termination of
the lease, or at any subsequent time, he shall give notice to
the lessee to quit possession of said land, house, building,
or a artment, at least thirty da *s before the termination of
the ease, or before the time w en the lessee shall be required to quit ossession; which notice shall be in writing,
in the form fol owing, to wit: “ I hereby give you notice,
that you are to quit possession of the (house, land, building, or apartment, as the case may be,) now occu ied by
you, on or before the [here insert the day, place, (late and
name.”] Duplicate copies of suchnotice shall be made,
one of which shall be delivered to the lessee, or left at his

place of residence, in the presence of at least one credible

witness. If at the expiration of the thirty da s, the lessee c
shall neglect or refuse to quit possession of t e premises, 3
any justice of the eace in the town in which the said
leased premises shal be situated, shall have power, on comlaint of the lessor or owner, to issue a summons to the
essee, which shall be served at least six days inclusive before the time of trial, to appear before him to answer to
such complaint; and also, upon an issue in fact being formed by the pleadings, to summon a jury of six able and judicious electors, ualiiied to act as °urors of the town, to.J
inquire whether t e possessor is the essee of the complain- ‘
ant, and holds over after the termination of the lease, and
whether notice has been given to him in the manner aforesaid, and said lessee holds possession after the expiration of
the time therein specified. In case the  find these facts
in favor of the complainant, the said justice of the peace4
shall render judgment for the complainant to recover possession of the said remises, with his costs, and issue execution accordinglfylrl. ut if the defendant shall show to the
jury a title in 'mself, derived after the date of the lease,
from the lessor, or from any other person, or if the jury
shall not find a lease, a notice given, and a holdin over
as aforesaid, the defendant shall recover his costs. en-'
ever an issue in fact is not joined, or the defendant makes‘:
default of appearance, the justice of the eace, before whom;
such complaint is pending, may proce to trial and judgment wit out a °m'y.*

Sxcr. 268. hen an magistrate shall issue a summons
for the pu ose aforesai , he shall take of the complainant
a bond, wit suilicient surety, to the adverse party, to answer all costs and damages which the defendant may susta1O°(r)1& in case the complainant shall fail to make his plea
g SE01‘. 269. [Repealed, 1851.] C)

[An Act relating to Fees in Forcible Entry and Detainer,
and 111 Summary Process, 1851.] C)

[Smcm 2. On the trial of a summar process, the fee of
the magistrate shall be one dollar er ay; and the fee of
each juror shall be one dollar per ay; and the oiiicer’s fees
shall be the same as for like services in other process.]

Sncr. 270. The provisions aforesaid shall extend to any
*person or persons deriving title from the lessor or lessee of
an land, Welling-house, or other building.

Error. 271. The county commissioners in any county
shall have power to proceed in the name of the county treasurer, in the manner herein before prescribed, to obtain possession of any land, dwellin -house, or other building, belon ing to the county of w ich they are commissioners,
hel under a lease in manner aforesaid.

Sncr. 272. The selectmen of any town may, in the name

'of the town, proceed in like manner to obtain possession of
any land, dwelling-house, or other buildin , belongin to the
town of which they are selectmen, hel under a case in
manner aforesaid, by complaintto be brought and tried before a justice of the peace and a jury of an adjoining town.

, SECT. 273. All persons claiming title to the premises
shall, notwithstanding an proceedings had in manner aforesaid, be entitled to any other legal remedy in the same manner asif such proceedings had not been had.

[In addition, 1852.]

f [SEO'l‘. 1. That on the trial of any com laint arisino unider the act relating to summary process, t e issue shall be
»tried by the court and not by a jury; but if the defendant
in such complaint shall make a motion to the court before
whom the same shall be pendin , for a jury, the same shall
be allowed in the same cases an in such manner as now b
law allowed: Provided, that before the same shall be a lowed, the defendant shall become bound to the complainant with good and sufiicient suret , to answer all costs and
damages, in case he fail to make is plea good.

Sncr. 2. Whenever a lease of any lands, dwelling-house
or other building, or of any a artments in such house or
other building, in writing, shal contain an agreement of
the parties thereto, whereby notice to quit possession is
waived by the lessee, then the thirty days notice prescribed
by the statute to which this is an addition, shall not be necessary, and complaint and summons, as now provided by
said statute, may issue in the same manner as if such notice to quit had been previously given.

SE01‘. 3. Whenever any writ of error shall be procured
by the lessee or respondent, in an action of summary process,
then such lessee or respondent shall give good and sufficient
bond with surety to the adverse party, to answer for all
rents that may} accrue during the pendency of such writ of
error, or whic may be due at the time of the final disposal
of such writ of error; and such lessee or respondent shall
have twenty-four hours after judgment has been rendered,
for filing his bill of exceptions, and procuring his writ of

error, and execution shall be stayed during that time: Provided, it shall appear to the justice who renders the judgment that such proceedings are not made for the purposes
of delay.

Saar. 4. So much of the act relating to summary process, as is inconsistent with this, is hereby repealed.]

[In alteration, May 20, 1854.]

[SEcr. 1. That so much of an Act entitled “ An Act in
alteration of an Act for the re ation of Civil Actions,”
ap roved June 30, 1853, as aut orizes an appeal from the
ju gment, rendered by a justice of the peace on the trial of
a complaint, under the act relating to summary process, be
and the same is hereby re ealed. (R

SE01‘. 2. This act sh take e ect upon the day of its

passage.]
[In addition, June 16, 1854.]

[SEC'I‘. 1. That the complainant in any action of summary process, in which an ap al has been allowed to the
county court, may withdraw e same in vacation, by filing
in the office of the clerk of the count court a written notice
of the withdrawal, signed by himse f, or his attorne , and
gaecifyino the action withdrawn, and the time of suc withrawal. bProvided, that the defendant in such action, may,
notwithstanding such withdrawal, enter such appeal in the
docket of the county court to which such appeal is taken,
at any time before the second opening of said court, and
shall be entitled to his costs, to be taxed by said county
court, in the same manner as if said action had been withdrawn in open court; but no costs shall be allowed for evidence, or officer’s, or witnesses’ fees, accruing after the
complainant shall have given the defendant or is attorney
actual notice of the withdrawal in writino, unless good reason
therefore should be shown to the satisfaction of the court.

SE01‘. 2. This act shall take effect from and alter the

day of its passage]

\

IX. OF TRESPASS.

Swr. 274. One or more counts-in trespass on the case
founded in tort, may be 'oined with one or more counts in;
trespass, when all of suc counts are for the same cause of 1
action.*

SEOT. 275. Every person who shall cut, fell, destroy, or
carry away, any trees, timber, or underwood, standing or
lying on t e land of any other person, or on land se uestered for town commons, or on any common and un ivided
landin any town, without license of the owner, and all that
shall aid and assist therein, shall ay to the party injured
one dollar and sixty-seven cents or every tree ,ef one foot
diameter; and for all trees of a greater dimension, three
times the value thereof, besides one dollar and sixty-seven
cents; and eighty-four cents for every tree or pole under
one foot diameter; which damages shall be recovered in an
action of trespass; rovided, that when the court, before
whom the trial sha be had, shall be satisfied that the defendant was guilty through mistake, and believed that the
timber was growing on his own land, they shall render
judgment aoainst him for no more than the true value
thereof; and when the trespass is committed on common
and undivided lands, the action shall be brought in the
name of the proprietors ; and when on lands sequestered for town commons, in the name of the town where the
lands lie; and the proprietors of common and undivided
lands and towns, may, 11] lawful meetings, appoint agents or
attorneys in their names, to prosecute any person or persons that shall be guilty of a breach of this section.

SE01‘. 27 6. Every person who shall wittingly and un'lawfully, throw down or leave open any bars, gates, fence,
or fences, belongin to any particular enclosure, or common
field, shall pay to t e party injured double damages, and a
sum not exceeding five do lars, according to the nature and
aggravation of the trespass, to be recovered in an action oi
trespass.

SE01‘. 277. Every person who shall set fire on any land,
that shall run 11 on the land of any other person, shall pay
to the owner allp the damages done by such fire, to be recovered in an action of trespass.

Sscr. 278. If the plaintifff, in any of the actions named

'- in the three next precedin sections, shall make oath that
the trespasses char ed in t e declaration were committed ;
that he suspects t e defendant committed the same, and
shall produce evidence to render it highly probable, he shall

,be entitled to recover the penalties and dama es aforesaid,
unless the defendant shall testify on oath, that edid not do
the acts, or any of them, charged in the declaration, and
was not aiding and assisting therein; and in such case, the
court shall render judgment in favor of the defendant torecover double costs.

Saar. 279. Every person who shall willfully remove or
destroy any of the stone, wooden work, or other materials

of or belon ing to any bridge over any river, creek, or tide
watels, or s al remove or destroy any stone, wood, or earth,
which may be placed for the security or preservation of
any such bridge, shall pay treble damages to the town, corporation, or proprietors, owning such brid , or bound by

aw to support the same, to be recovere in an action of
trespass.

SEc.'r. 280. Every person who shall pull down, break,:
or deface, any mile-stone, post-guide, or other monument‘
for the direction of travelers, or any railin which may by‘
law be erected on any causeway or pubfic road, for the
safety of travelers, shall pay to the town, corporation, or
proprietors, owning such mile-stone, post-guide, other menument, or railing, treble damages, to be recovered in an
action of trespass.

Sncr. 281. Whenever any person shall, willfully, and‘
without color of right, commit a trespass on the lands of 1
another, by cutting or destroying any trees, or ca ing
away any timber, wood, or rails, or by destroying or trailing.
away any growing crops, or fruits, the party injured may
bring his action of trespass against him, stating such facts;
and if, on trial, they shall be found true, the court may
render judgment inst him for damages and costs; and:
if the defendant shal not ay the same within thirty days;
after the judgment shall re rendered, he shall be com-:
mitted to the work-house in the town where he dwells, to‘
be ke t at hard labor, not exceeding sixty days; and if
there 1he no work-house in such town, then to the workhouse in the town where the plaintifff dwells, provided it
be in the same county where the defendant dwells, there
to be kept at hard labor, not exceeding sixty days° and if
there be no work-house in such town and within the
county aforesaid, then to the county work-house in the
county within which the defendant dwells, there to be
kept at hard labor, not exceeding a like period of sixty
days; and if there be no work-house in said countv, then
to the county jail in the county where the defendant
dwells, there to be imprisoned for a term not exceeding
sixty days; and the court shall issue execution accordingly; provided, that in cases where any person thus com-t
mitted, shall be unable to ay the ex ense of his support?
in the work-house, or jail, t e same s all be paid by the}
plaintifff; and if such person shall pay such execution,
costs, and expenses, he shall be thereupon released from
the work-house, or jail.

Smcr. 282. Whenever any dog shall do any damage,
either to the body or propert of any person, the owner, or
keeper, or if the owner or eeper be a minor, then his

parent or guardian, or if he be an apprentice, then his
master, shall pay such damage, to be recovered in an
action of trespass.*

X. OF TREBPABB ON THE CASE.

Sncr. 283. Whenever any erson shall be guilty of
fraud in contracting a debt, or sliall conceal, remove, withhold, assign, or convey away, his estate, monies, goods,

.chattels, or choses in action, with intent to prevent the
same from bein taken by legal process, or shall refuse to
-paty any debt a mitted by him, or established by a valid
u gment, while having monies or estate, not exempt from
execution, suiiicient to discharge the same, concealed or
withheld by him so that the same cannot be taken by legal process, or shall refuse to disclose his rights of action,
with intent to prevent the same from bein taken by foreign attachment, any creditor aggrieved thereby may instltute an action on the case, against such person, setting
forth his debt in the declaration, and also setting fort
particularly such fraudulent act, or acts, and have process
of attachment and execution against the body of the defendant, to be roceeded with 111 all respects as in other
actions of tort.

Snow. 284. Every person who, having no reater interest in real estate than an estate for years, or or life, created by the act of the parties and not by the act of the law,
shall commit waste upon the premises beyond what tenants for ears or life created by operation of law may do,
shall be iable to the party injured in an action on the case,
unless he is expressly authorized, by the contract under
which such interest is created, to do the acts complained
of; provided, that all rights now vested in any tenant for
years or for life shall not be affected by this section.1

XI. OF WRITB OF MANDAMU8.

S1«:c'r. 285. The superior court may issue writs of mandamus, in cases in which they may by law be granted, and

proceed therein, and render judgment according to the
course of the common law.*

Sncr. ~286. When a writ of mandamus is issued, requiring the p to whom it is directed to make a return, if
such party s all refuse or neglect to do it, then the court
may issue a perempto mandamus.

Sncr. 287. When e pug to whom such writ is di-:
rected, shall make a return s cient on the face of it, if it
shall be denied by the other party, it shall be competent
for the court to inquire into the truth of it, and it they
shall iind it to be untrue, then to issue a peremptory mandamus, in the same manner, and on the same principles, as
if the return was insumcient; and to render judgment for
the complainant to recover his costs, and to grant execution for the same; but if the return shall be found to be
true and suiiicient, then to render judgment in favor of the

party complained of, to recover his costs against the complainant.

ill. OF ‘WRITE OF PROIIIBITION, AND OF QUO WARRANTO.

Sncr. 288. When any person shall make complaint to
the superior court when in session, or to either of the:
judges of the superior court in vacation, that an inferiori
court or tribunal exceeds its jurisdiction, or holé plea of
any matter or cause whereof by law such court has no cognizance, by which the complainant is aggrieved; the superior court, or such judge, may grant a rule, subscribed

y the clerk of the COI11'1i,1O1‘ such tljudgei, directetcld to the;

rosecutin ,aswe asto e ‘u eorj geso

§:cl;lt1yirll‘erior cougt, to appear before tlile sgperior court, or
such judge, in such reasonable time as such court or 'udge
shall appoint, to show cause why a writ of prohi ition
should not be issued against them. If the arty complained
of shall neglect or refuse to appear, sai court or judge
shall issue a writ of prohibition, as prayed for; but if such
party shall a pear, he may plead any proper matter in his

efence; an said court or judge may examine and decide
upon the truth, as well as the sufficiency of the facts arising in the cause; and if they find sufficient ground, shall
issue a Writ of prohibition to the party prosecuting the
suit, and to the judge or 'udges in the court below, commanding them to proceed no further in the trial of the

suit; and shall also tax lawful costs in favor of the complainant; and if the party in the court below, or the judge
or judges of such court, disobey such writ of rohibition,
then such superior court or jud e, may punis them for
the contempt, accordin to the ru es of the common law;
and the part aggrieve shall have his action on the case,
to recover all the damages he may sustain. But if no suilicient reason appear for granting a writ of prohibition,
costs shall be taxed in favor of the party complained of,
and execution anted for the same.

SE01‘. 289. en any person or corporation, sh all usurp
the exercise of an office, franchise, or jurisdiction, the superior court shall have power to proceed b information in
the nature of .quo warranto, to punish suc erson or corporation for such usurpation, accordin to e usage and
principles of the common law; and , may ermit an
information in the nature of a quo warranto, to e filed in
the name of the attorney for the state in the county where
the cause of action arises, at the relation of any person desiring to prosecute the same, against any person usurping
any corporate franchise or office, and may proceed therein,
and render judgment, according to the course of the common law.*

SE01‘. 290. All notices of rules, and all writs, in the
cases aforesaid, shall be directed to the sheriff of the
county, or his deputy, or to a constable of the town in
which the defendant resides, and shall be served by leaving a true and attested cop with the defendant, at such
time as the court or judge s all direct; and the superior
court, or the judge of such court to whom complaint has
been made in vacation, may prescribe such time for the
appearance of the arties as such court or judge shall
deem to be reasonab e.

XIII. OF WRIT8 OF HABEA8 CORPUS.

Sncr. 291. Application may be made to any superior or
county court, when in session, or to any‘ judge of either of
said courts in vacation, for a writ of abeas corpus, and
such court or jud e may issue the same, returnable before
such court or ju ge, to he proceeded with according to

law.1'

Sncr. 292. When application is made to such court or
'udge, for a writ of habeas corpus, and the facts are verified
y the affidavit of the person in whose favor the application is made, or of any other person, alleging that he verily
believes the person on whose account such writ is prayed
for, is illegally confined, or deprived of his lawful liberty,
such court or judge shall t a writ of habeas corpus,
directed to some proper o cer, to serve and return; who‘
shall receive the same, and make due service thereof, by
putting a true and attested copy of it into the hands of the
person who has the custody of the body of him who is directed to be brought up on said writ; and said officer shall
make immediate return of said writ, with his doings thereon, on pain of forfeiting fifty dollars, to the use of the person so held in custody, to be recovered by action on the
case.

SE01‘. 293. If any person, havin the custody of the:
body of any one directed to be broug t up on a writ of ha-‘
beas corpus dul served, shall fail or neglect to bring u
the body accor ing to the command in the writ; or shal
refuse to accept the copy of the same offered in service; or
shall, in an way, fraudulently avoid bringing up the
body, acco ing to the command of the writ; or having
brought up the body, shall neglect or refuse to make return of the cause of detaining such person so held in custod , he shall be deemed guilty of a contem t of court,
andy may be unished by said court or judge by commitment for suc contempt, and shall forfeit and pay to the
person so held in custody, two hundred dollars.

Sscr. 294. When any facts contained in such return]
shall be contested, such court or judge may hear testimo-‘
ny, and examine and decide upon the truth, as Well as the
suiiiciency of the return, and render such judgment as to

law and justice shall appertain.


