answer alleged ' but, under such general denial, he may
not give in evi ence any matter in avoidance, unless it
be specially replied. Further pleadings, subsequent in
theirt'nature, may be had, if necessary, by leave of the
cour

Sec. 5. In cases where the defendant has either in
law, or in equity, or in both, a counterclaim, or right
of set-off, against the plaintid’s demand, he may have
the benefit of any such set-offs or counterclaims by
pleading the same, as such, in his answer, and demanding judgment accordingly; and the same shall be pleaded
and replied to, according to the rules governing complaints and answers: provided, that no counterclaim,
set-off, or defense, merely equitable, shall be available
in actions before justices of the peace.

Sec. 6. All courts, which are vested with jurisdiction
both at law and in equity, may hereafter, to the full
extent of their respective jurisdictions, administer legal
and equitable rights, and apply legal and equitable
remedies, in favor of either party, in one and the same
suit, so that legal and equitable rights of the parties
may be enforced and protected in one action: provided,
that wherever there is any variance between the rules of
equity and the rules of the common law, in the referencle to the same matter, the rules of equity shall prevai .

Sec. 7. In every civil action, not brought before a
justice of the peace, the plaintifff may include in his
complaint both legal and equitable rights and causes of
action, and demand both legal and equitable remedies;
but where several causes of action are united in the
same complaint they must all be brought to recover,
either (1) upon contract, express or implied, or (2) for
injuries, with or without force, to person and property,
or either, including a conversion of property to the
defendant’s use, or (3) for injuries to character, or (4)
upon claims to recover real property, with or Without
damages for the withholding thereof, and the rents and
profits of the same, or (5) upon claims to recover personal property specifically, with or without damages for
the withholding thereof, or (6) claims arising by virtue
of a contract or by operation of law, in favor of or against
a party, in some representative or fiduciary capacxty, or
(7) upon claims, whether in contract, or tort, or both,
arising out of the same transaction or transactions connected with the same subject of action. The several
causes of action so united must all belong to one of these
classes, and, except in actions for the foreclosure of
mortgages or liens, must affect all the parties to the
action, and not require different places of trial, and
must be separately stated; and in all cases where several
causes of action are joined in the same complaint, or as
matter of counterclaim or set-off, in the answer, if it
appear to the court that they cannot all be conveniently
heard together, the court may order separate trials of
any such causes of action, or may direct that any one or
more of them be expunged from the complaint or answer.

Sec. 8. In civil actions appealed from the judgment
of a justice of the peace, either party may, during the
first term of the appellate court, amend his pleadings
by introducing any equitable right, cause of action,
defense, set-off, or counterclaim, as the case may be, and
the same shall be Considered in determining the appeal,
subject, however, to the rules as to joinder of causes of
action, prescribed in the foregoing section.

See. 9. All pleadings shall contain a plain and concise
statement of the material facts on which the pleader
relies, but not of the evidence by which they are to be
proved; such statement being divided into paragraphs
numbered consecutively, each containing, as nearly as
may be, a separate allegation. Where the pleadings do
not fully disclose the ground of claim or defense, the‘
court may order fuller and more particular statements;
and if, in the opinion of the court, the pleadings do not
sufficiently define the issues in dispute, it may direct the
parties to prepare other issues, and such issues shall, if
the parties differ, be settled by the court.

Sec. 10. Allegations or denials, made without reason—
able cause, and found untrue, shall subject the party
pleading the same to the payment of such reasonable
expenses, to be taxed by the court, as may have been
necessarily incurred by the other party by reason of such
untrue pleading: provided, that no expenses for counsel

 

fegs shall be taxed exceeding ten dollars for any one
o ence.

Unnecesssg repetition, prolixlty, scandal, importinence, obsc ty, or uncertainty in any pleading, shall be
ground for a motion to expunge or otherwise correct such
pleading. Such motion shall be in writing, and specify
the particular exceptions, and a copy thereof shall be
left with or at the othce of the attorney of the adverse
party at least two days before the same shall be brought
to the attention of the court. The costs upon any such
motion. whether granted or not, shall be at the discretion
of the court. 0

Sec. 11. All persons having an interest in the sub ect
of the action. and in obtaining the judgment deman ed,
may be joined as plaintifffs, except as otherwise expressly
provided; and if one who ought to be joined as plaintifff
declines to join, he may be made a defendant, the reason
therefore being stated in the complaint.

Sec. 12. Any rson may be made a defendant who
has or claims an nterest in the contro'versy, or any part
thereof, adverse to the plaintifff, or whom it is necessary,
for a complete determination or settlement of any questions involved therein, to make a party.

Sec. 13. ’Wherever the persons who might be made
parties are very numerous, so that it would be impracticable or unreasonably expensive to make them all parties. one or more may sue or be sued, or may be authorized by the court to defend, for the benefit of all.

Sec. 14. An executor, administrator, or trustee of an
express trust, may sue or be sued, without joining the
persons represented by him and beneficially interested

n the suit.

Sec. 15. The court may determine the controversy as
between the parties before it, where it can do so without
prejudice to the rights of others; but where a complete
determination cannot be had without the' presence of
other parties, the court may direct them to be brought
in. And where a person, not a party, has an interest
or title which the judgment will affect, the court, on his
application, shall direct him to be made a party.

Sec. 16. No action shall be defeated by the nonjoinder or misjoinder of parties. New parties may be
added, and summoned in, and parties misjoined may be
dropped, by order of the court, at any stage of the
cause, as it may deem the interests of justice to require.

Sec. 17. When any action has been commenced in
the name of the wrong person as plaintim the court
may, if satisfied that it has been so commenced through
mistake, and that it is necessary for the determination
of the real matter in dispute so to do, allow any other
person to be substituted or added as plaintifff.

Sec. 18. When a counterclaim raises questions adecting the interests of third parties, the defendant may, and
if required by the court shall, cause such parties to be
summoned in, as parties to said cause.

Sec. 19. N 0 change in parties, made by order of court,
shall impair any previous attachment of the estate or
body of any person remaining a defendant in the action,
nor impair bonds or recognizances of any person remaining a party, either as against himself or his sureties, nor
impair receipts to the officer for property attached; and,
when parties are changed, the court may order new bonds,
if such new bonds are deemed necessary. Orders of court
concerning change in parties may be upon terms, as to
costs or otherwise, at the discretion of the court.

Sec. 20. Mesne process in civil actions shall be a writ
of summons or attachment, describing the parties, the
court to which it is returnable, and the time and place
of appearance. All such writs shall be signed by a
justice of the peace, commissioner of the superior court,
or a judge or clerk of the court to which it is returnable; and may run into any county. Attachments may
be granted upon all complaints containing a money
demand against the estate of the defendant, both real and
personal, and for want thereof against his body, when
not exempt from imprisonment on the execution in the
suit. The forms of mesne process may be the same as

now used and authorized, substituting for the words in
said forms “in a plea of” the words “in a civil action,
wherein the plaintifff complains and says,” or other
equivalent words; and substituting for the words “to
show cause, if any he have, why the prayer of the foregoing petition should not be granted,” the words “ then

in a civil
action, wherein the plaintifff complains and says.”

and there to answer unto C. D., of

Sec. 21. No attachment shall be granted against the
body, unless each cause of action in the complaint be
such that execution may issue against the body of the
defendant, upon a judgment founded thereon. Any
defendant arrested on mesne process may apply to any
judge of the court to which the writ upon which he has
been arrested is returnable, giving reasonable notice of
the time and place of the ap heat on to the plaintifff or
his attorney for a discharge rom arrest; and said judge
may, if he is satisfied that such attachment of the
defendant’s body is unjustifiable, discharge him from
arrest.

Sec. 22. Section two of chapter IX of title nineteen
of the general statutes (page 428) is hereby amended, so
as to read as follows: “ In the superior court. court of
common pleas, district court, and city courts, separate
dockets shall be kept of jury cases and court cases. The
following named classes of cases shall be entered on
the jury docket, at the request of either party, made to
the clerk during the first term, to wit: appeals from pro—
bate, involving the validity of a will, or paper purporting
tobe such; appeals from the doings of commissioners
on insolvent estates; and (except as hereinafter provided) civil actions involving such an issue of fact as,
prior to the passage of this act, would not present a
question properly cognizafile in equity. Where. in any
of the above-named classes of cases, an issue of fact is
joined after the first term, the case may, within three
weeks from such joinder, be entered in the jury docket
for the trial of such issue, upon request of either party
made to the clerk; and any of such cases may at any
time be entered in the jury (locket hy.consent of both
parties, or by order of the court. AJl cases not entered
in the jury docket under the fore oing provisions, including actions wherein the plainti sues for a debt due
by book to balance book accounts, actions wherein an
account is demanded and judgment rendered that the
defendant do account, writs of habeas corpus, prohibition, and ne erect, petitions for divorce, and all other
special statutory proceedings which, prior to the passage
of this act, were not triafile by jury, shall be entered on
the court docket, and shall together with all issues of law and issues of fact, other than those above specified,
which may be joined in actions entered on the jury
docket, be disposed of as court cases.”

See. 23. If more than one issue of fact be joined in
a cause upon the jury docket, either party may, and the
party placing it there shall, within three weeks after the
issues are joined, file with the clerk a written notice,
stating whether he desires all such issues to be tried to
the jury, and, if not, which of them he desires to be so
tried. All issues which either party desires tried to the
jury, and which are specified in such notice or notices,
shall be so tried: provided, they are such as, under the
foregoing provisions, are properly triafile by jury; but
any other issues in the cause shall be tried as the court
may direct, by the court, the jury, or a committee.

Sec. 24. In all cases, whether upon the jury or the
court docket, the court may order that one or more of
the issues joined be tried before the others.

Sec. 25. Either party may, by awritten notice, call
u n the other to admit the existence and due execution
0 any document, materialto the issue, saving all just
exceptions; and in case of refuse] or neglect to make
such admission, within a reasonable time after the receipt of such notice. the costs of proving such document
shall be paid by the party so neglecting or refusing,
whatever may be the result of the action; unless the
court find that said neglect or refusal was reasonable.

Sec. 26. Any court having cognizance of writs of
habeas corpus, mandamus, quo wan-ante, prohibition, or
as sweat, may, in any action pending before it, make
any order, interlocutory or final, in the nature of such
writs, or any of them, to the extent of its jurisdiction,
so far as it may appear to be an appropriate form of re-_
lief.

Sec. 27. If several issues are presented by the pleadings, and, on the trial of one or more of said issues. an
error or ground for a new trial intervenes, which does
not affect the legality of the trial or disposition of the
other issue or issues, judgment shall not be arrested
or reversed, nor a new trial granted, except so far as

 

relates to the particular issue or issues in the trial of
which such error or ground for a new trial intervened.

Sec. 28. Wherever the words “ declaration ” or “ petition ” or “ bill in equity ” occur in any statute, the word
“ complaint” shall be substituted therefore; and all existing statutes, and rules of law or of practice, which
relate to civil actions, or to suits, or to certain forms of
action, shall be construed as applicable to proceedings by
complaint for the subject-matter of such action or suit;
and all existing statutes and rules of law or of practice
which relate to the defendant’s plea shall be construed
as applicable to the answer required by this act; and all
rights which under existing laws ma be enforced by
any form of action or suit may be en orced under this
act by complaint; and all defenses by way of the statute
of limitations, or otherwise, available in any form of
action or suit, shall be available in like manner and to
the same extent against the complaint founded on the
proper subject-matter of such action: provided, that all
the provisions of this section shall be subject to such exceptions, modifications, and amendments as are made in
this act.

Sec. 29. The following sections of title nineteen of
the general'statutes are hereby repealed: Section one
of chapter I (page 396); sections five and six of chapter
IV (pages 413. 414) ; and sections three, four, five, seven,
nine, ten, and nineteen of chapter VII (pages 423, 424,
and 426).

Sec. 30. Title nineteen of the general statutes is
hereby amended as follows: Section eleven of chapter
VII (page 424), by striking out the first three lines. and
inserting, in lieu thereof, the following words: " If any
matter set up in the answer shall, upon demurrer.”
Section ten of chapter XIII (page 444) shall be so
amended as to read as follows: “ All courts shall keep
a record of their proceedings, and cause the facts on
which they found their final judgments and decrees to
appear on the record; and such finding, if requested by
any party, shall specially set forth such facts.” Section
eight of chapter XIV (page 445) by substituting for the
words “ action at law” in the first ine, the words “ civil
action, in which equitable relief was not properly de-j
mandable ; ” and by substituting for the words “ actions
of tort” in the fifth line, the words “actions founded;
on a tort.” ‘

Sec. 31. The provisions of part I of chapter XVII of
title nineteen (page 466) of the general statutes shall be
applicable to complaints where an account is demanded
and the subject-matter is such that an action of account
would be an appro riate remedy under the existing law.
The provisions 0 part IV of said chapter (page 471) ‘
shall be applicable to complaints for the recovery of a
debt due the plaintifff by book, to balance book accounts.

Sec. 32. Sections one, three, four, five, six, seven,
eight, twenty, twenty-one, and twenty-eight, of this act,
shall not affect flowage petitions or proceedings of hastardy, repleviu, summary process, Iaabeas corpus, mandamus, prohibition, ne ezeat, quo warranto, or in the
nature of quo warranto, forcible entry and detainer,
peaceable entry and forcible detainer, or for paying rewards, under part sixteen of chapter XVII of title nineteen of the general statutes.

Sec. 33. The judges of the superior court shall have
power at their annual meeting .or other meeting called
for that purpose, to make all such orders and rules as
shall be necessary and proper to give full effect to the
provisions of this act, including suitable forms of procedure under the same; and said judges, on or before
October 1, 1879, shall prepare orders and rules, as above
authorized, which they shall transmit to the secretary
of this state, who shall cause the same forthwith to be
printed and distributed to all attorneys within the state;
and all rules and orders thereafter adopted shall be in
like manner printed and distributed.

Sec. 34. This act, excepting section thirty-three,
which shall take effect upon the rising of the General
Assembly, shall take effect on the first day of J anuary,
1880, but shall not affect any suits pending on the last
day of December, 1879.

Approved, March 28, 1879.

 


