TITLE l. Account.
AN Act authorizing the appointment of Auditors
in actions of Account.
SEC. 1. JE it enacted by the Senate and House of
D Representatives in General Assembly con*
vened, That whenever a judgment shall be rendered
against the defendant, in an action of account, that he
do account, the court shall appoint not more than three
able, disinterested, and judicious men, to take the ac
count ; who shall be sworn according to law, and shall
have power to appoint the time and place for the hear
ing, and shall give reasonable notice thereof to the par
ties : And if the defendant shall refuse to attend, at the
time and place appointed, and produce his books, and
render his account, the auditors shall receive from the
plaintifff his statement of the account, and award to him
the whole sum he claims to be due.
SEC. 2. If the parties appear, and produce their
books, the auditors shall have power to administer an
oath to them, and examine them respecting their ac
counts, and to inquire of any other lawful witnesses :
and if either party shall refuse to be sworn, or to answer
any proper questions respecting his account, the audit
ors may commit him to gaol, there to continue till he
will consent to be sworn, and answer all proper inter
rogatories : and the auditors shall liquidate and adjust
the accounts, and award that the party in whose favor
they find the balance to be due, shall recover the same,
and shall make report to the same or the next succeed
ing session of the court. The party in whose favor the
report is made, shall pay to the auditors their fees and
expenses, which shall be allowed in the bill of cost : and
on the return and acceptance of the report, the court
shall render judgment, that the party in whose favor it
is made, shall recover the sum found to be due, with his
lawful cost. And no appeal shall be allowed on any
judgment given on a report of auditors.
SEC. 3. In actions of account, brought before justi
ces of the peace, when judgment is rendered that the
defendant shall account, they shall take and adjust the
account, without the appointment of*auditors, and render
judgment accordingly.
SEC. 4. An executor, who is also residuary legatee,
when all, or any part of his legacy is withholden from
him, by his co-executor, may bring his action of ac
count against his co-executor for the recovery thereof j
and the like action shall be allowed to residuary lega
tees against executors. When two persons hold any
.estate as joint tenants, tenants in common, or coparce
ners, if one of them shall receive, use or take benefit of
such estate, in greater proportion than the amount of
his interest in the principal estate, he, and his executors
or administrators, shall be liable to render an account
to his co-tenant ; and such co-tenant, his executors or .
administrators, may bring an action of account against
such receiver, and recover such sum as he has received
more than his proportion as aforesaid.
SEC. 5. When there shall be such claim, by one coexecutor,
or residuary legatee, against two or more coexecutors
; or when there is a claim by one joint-tenant,
tenant in common, or coparcener, against two or more
cp-tenants, the remedy shall be by bill, or petition in
equity.
TITLE 2. Actions Civil.
An Act for the regulation of Civil Actions.
SEC. 1. it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepJlJ
resentatives in General Assembly convened,
That the process in civil actions shall be by summons, or
attachment, in writing ; that the writ shall describe the
parties and the court, and mention the time and place of
appearance ; shall be accompanied with a declaration,
containing the cause of action, and shall be signed by the
governor, lieutenant-governor, a senator, judge, jus
tice of the peace, or clerk of the court to which it is re
turnable^!) Attachments may be granted against the
goods and chattels of the defendant, and for want there
of, against his lands or person. When the plaintifff prays
out an attachment, a sufficient bond shall be given, conditioned
to prosecute his action to effect, and answer all
damages in case he makes not his plea good : and if it
shall appear to the authority signing the writ, that he is
unable to pay the cost of suit, if a recovery should be had
against him, then he shall procure a surety in such bond
of prosecution. If the plaintifff is not an inhabitant of
this state, or if an inhabitant of this state, and it appears
to the authority signing the writ, that he is unable to pay
the cost of suit, if a recovery is had against him, then,
whether the suit be a summons or attachment, he shall
procure surety in a bond from some substantial inhabitant
of this state to prosecute his action to effect, and answer
all damages, in case he make not his plea good.
SEC. 2. All process, by attachment or summons,
shall be directed to the sheriff, his deputy, a constable,
or some indifferent person ; but no writ of attachment
or summons shall be directed to an indifferent person to
serve, till the same shall be complete in all other respects
; nor shall it be so directed, unless more defendants than one are therein named, and described to be of
different counties in the state ; or unless where, in case
of a writ of attachment, the plaintifff, or one of the plain
tiffs, if there be more than one, or his or their agent or
attorney, shall make an affidavit respecting the writ, in
the words following : " You solemnly swear (or affirm)
that .you verily believe the plaintifff, (or plaintifffs, as the
case may be) is in danger of losing the debt, (damage, or
other thing, as the case may be) in this writ, unless an
indifferent person be deputed for the immediate service
of the same : So help you God :" which oath the au
thority signing such writ is empowered to administer ;
and he shall certify on the writ that he administered the
same ; for which service he shall be entitled to receive
twelve cents, but which shall not be taxed in the bill of
costs : in which cases, the authority shall insert in the
writ the name of the indifferent person to whom it is di
rected ; but need not insert the reason of such direction.
And if any writ of attachment, or summons, shall be di
rected to an indifferent person, except in the cases, and
under the regulations abovementioned, the same shall
abate.
SEC. 3. The sheriff may depute a proper person, on
some special occasion, to serve a particular writ ; which
deputation shall be entered on the back of the writ ; who,
after service thereof, shall make oath before a justice of
the peace, that he faithfully and truly served the same,
according to his indorsement thereon, and that he did
not fill up said writ, nor give direction to any person to
fill up the same ; and such justice of the peace shall cer
tify on the writ that he administered said oath accord
ingly ; and thereupon the service thereof shall be good
and valid.
SEC. 4. All writs and processes, returnable to the su
preme court of errors, the superior court, and county
courts, shall be served at least twelve days inclusive be
fore the day of the sitting of the court ; and if returna
ble to a justice of the peace, at least six days inclusive,
as aforesaid ; or the defendant shall not be bound to make
answer thereto.
SEC. 5. A summons shall be served, by the officer's
reading the same in the hearing of the defendant or de
fendants, or leaving an attested copy thereof at the place
or places of his or their usual abode : an attachment
shall be served, by attaching the goods and chattels of the
defendant, or if nonecanbe found, by attaching the person
or lands of the defendant. When an attachment is serv
ed, by taking the body of the defendant, notice -shall be
given to him, by the officer's reading the writ in his
hearing, or by leaving an attested copy at his usual place
of abode. When any estate, real or personal, is attach
ed, the officer serving the writ shall leave with the per
son whose estate is so attached, or at the place of his usual
abode, if within the state, a true and attested copy of the
writ, and of his return, describing the estate attached
thereon. And when any real estate is taken, the officer
serving the writ, shall leave a true and attested copy
thereof, and a description of the estate taken, at the
town clerk's office, in the town where the land lies, within
seven days next after attaching the estate, and before the '
time limited by law for the service of such writ expires :
and unless the service shall be so completed, such estate
shall not be holden against any other creditor, or bona
fide purchaser.
SEC. 6. The rights or shares, which any person may
have or own in the stock of any bank, insurance compa
ny, turnpike company, or other corporation, together
with the interests, rents and profits, due, and growing due
thereon, shall be liable to be attached, in any action at
law, and levied upon and sold to satisfy any judgment
and execution. And the attachment of any such rights
or shares shall be, by leaving a true and attested copy of
the writ, by the officer serving the same, with his proper
endorsement thereon, as in other cases, with the defend
ant, or at his usual place of abode, if within this state, and
with the cashier of such bank, or with the secretary or
clerk of such company or corporation ; and such rights
or shares, together with the interests, rents and profits,
shall be holden to respond the judgment, which may be
recovered in such action, for the term of sixty days after
the rendering thereof, and no longer.
SEC. 7. No estate attached as aforesaid, shall be held
to respond the judgment obtained by the plaintifff at
whose suit the same is attached, either against the debtor,
or any other creditor, unless such judgment-creditor
take out execution on such judgment, and have the same
levied on goods or personal estate, within sixty days after
final judgment, or on real estate, and have the same ap
praised and recorded within four months after such judg
ment shall have been obtained : or if said goods or estate
are incumbered by any prior attachment, the execution
to be levied as aforesaid, within the respective times
aforesaid, after such encumbrance is removed.
SEC. 8. When the defendant is not a resident or inhabitant of this state, and has estate within the same
which is attached, a copy of the writ, describing the estate, shall be left, by the officer, with the agent or attor
ney of the defendant, within this state ; and when land
is attached, a like copy shall be left in the office of the
town clerk where the land lies, as in cases where the de
fendant belongs to this state : but if the defendant has not
an agent or attorney within this state, then a like copy
shall be left with him, who has the charge or possession
of the estate attached.
SEC. 9. On writs of scire facias, in which execution
maybe issued against the person and property of the defendant,
on the judgment that may be rendered thereon,
the process may be by attachment of the person or prop
erty of the defendant, to be proceeded with as to bail,
and in all respects, as in ordinary cases.
SEC. 10. Officers serving writs shall return them, or
cause them to be returned, to the clerks of the courts to
which they are made returnable, at least forty-eight hours
prior to the day of the session of the court : and writs re
turnable to justices of the peace shall be returned at least
twenty-four hours before the day of trial.
SEC. 1. 1 . When any process is duly served on any
defendant or defendants, and returned to the court to
which it is made returnable, if he or they do not appear,
his or their default shall be recorded, and judgment be
rendered against them, unless he or they shall come into
court, on or before the second day of its session, and
move for a trial ; in which case he or they shall be ad
mitted thereto, upon paying to the plaintifff his cost to
that time ; and the action shall be entered anew for
trial.(2.)
SEC. 12. When the defendant, being an inhabitant
of this state, is absent out of the same, at the time of
the commencement of the suit, and does not return be
fore the first day of the sitting of the court, such suit
shall be continued to the next term ; and if the defend
ant does not return, or appear by attorney, and be so
remote that notice of the suit could not have been conveyed to him, such suit may be continued to the next
term and no longer : and if he does not then appear,
judgment may be rendered against him on default of ap
pearance. But if the defendant is not an inhabitant, or
resident of this state, at the commencement of the suit,
and does not appear and answer to the suit, by himself
or attorney, then the court shall continue the same to the
next term, and may direct notice to be given to the defendent
of the pendency of the suit, by publication in
some, newspaper, or otherwise, as they may judge expe
dient : and if the defendant should not then appear, by
himself or attorney, and be so remote that it is not proba
ble that notico has been received by him of the penden
cy of the suit, the court shall continue the suit to the
next term, and no longer ; and if he does not then ap
pear, may render judgment against him, on default. And
in such cases, where judgment shall be entered up against
him on default, after such continuances, execution shall
not issue thereon, until the plaintifff shall have lodged
with the clerk of the court, a bond, with one or more
sufficient sureties, to the adverse party, in double the
sum of such judgment, to refund the whole, or such part
of it, as the court, upon a writ of error, or petition for
a new trial, to be brought within one year after such
judgment, shall adjudge and determine that the plaintifff
had no right to recover : provided, that no real estate
taken by an execution granted on such first judgment,
shall be aliened and conveyed till after the expiration of
twelvemonths from the rendition of such judgment; or
till after a decision in favor of the original plaintifff, upon
a writ of error or petition for a new trial, brought within
twelve months as aforesaid.
SEC. 13. And in every case, where it appears that
the defendant had not actual notice of the suit, or a reasonable
opportunity to appear and make his defense, the
court may, on petition, grant him a new trial, if they
find he had just ground of defense.
SEC. 14. In actions on joint securities, where all the
defendants are not inhabitants of this state, the service of
the process upon such of the defendants as are inhabit
ants of this state, shall be sufficient notice to maintain the
suit against all the defendants. And if any of the de
fendants, on whom the process was not served, shall be
aggrieved by the judgment, he may be relieved by a new
trial, which the court is empowered to grant, upon a pe
tition for the same, if they shall find, that the defendant
has just cause of defense.
SEC. 15. When a suit is brought before a justice of
the peace, against a defendant who is an inhabitant of
the state, but is absent at the commencement of the suit,
and does not return before the trial, such action shall
be adjourned a reasonable time, not less than one month,
nor more than nine months, to give an opportunity for
the defendant to return, or to send notice to him.
SEC. 16. When a suit is brought before a justice of
the peace, against a defendant who is not an inhabitant
or resident of this state, and actual notice is not given to
him, the action shall be adjourned for a term not less
than three, nor more than nine months.
SEC. 17. In all cases where a judgment shall be ren
dered, by a justice of the peace, against a defendant,
who is absent from the state till after the time of the tri
al, and has no notice of the suit, he may apply to the
county court, in the county where the judgment is ren
dered, for a new trial ; which court is empowered to
grant the same, and to proceed to final judgment there
in, if the defendant shall make it appear, that the judg
ment was wrongfully obtained against him, and that he
has a good ground of defense ; which application shall
be made within six months after his return into this state,
and within three years from the rendition of the judgment.
SEC. 18. If the plaintifff, in an action returned to any
court, and entered in the docket, on being called three
times after twelve o'clock on the first day of the sitting
of the court, shall not appear, either by himself or attor
ney, to prosecute the action, he shall be nonsuited, and
pay cost to the defendant, and for entering the action,
as if it had been prosecuted in said court. And the
plaintifff, in all actions brought to any court, shall have
liberty to withdraw the same, or become nonsuit, before
the jury have given in their verdict ; in which case he
shall pay cost to the defendant, and may bring a new
suit; such withdraw or nonsuit having been first re
corded.
SEC. 19. In all actions, brought by any person, who
is not an inhabitant of this state, to any court in this state,
the clerk of such court shall enter in the record of the
cause, the name of the attorney, by whom such stranger
appeared ; which record shall be good evidence, that
such attorney was the lawful attorney of such stranger.
SEC. 20. In any action, where bond for prosecution
is not given at the time of praying out the writ, or where
the bond taken is insufficient, the court, or justice of
the peace, before whom the same is brought, on motion
of the defendant, and on satisfactory proof that the plain
tiff, or his surety, is not able to pay the bill of cost that
may be recovered in the suit, shall order the plaintifff to
give a bond, with sufficient surety, to prosecute bis action to effect, and pay all damages in case he make not
his plea good, before proceeding to trial of the same ; and,
if the plaintifff shall neglect or refuse to give such bond, he
shall be nonsuited.
SEC. 21. All suits wherein the title to land is to be V
tried and determined, and all actions of trespass quart
clausumfregit, shall be brought and tried in the county
where the land lies : and all other actions, which may be
brought before the superior or county courts, shall be
brought and tried in that county, where the plaintifff or
defendant dwells, if they, or either of them, are inhab
itants of this state : but if neither of them are inhabitants
of this state, then the action shall be brought and tried in
the county where the defendant is, when the suit is com
menced, or where the estate is, which is attached, if the
defendant is not within this state.
SEC. 22. All actions cognizable by a justice of the
peace, shall be brought and tried in those towns where the
plaintifff or defendant dwells : but if there be no justice of
the peace in either of said towns, who can lawfully try
the cause, then the plaintifff may bring his suit before a
justice of the peace in one of the towns next adjoining to
the place of his abode.
SEC. 23. All causes wherein the title to land is not
concerned, and wherein the debt, trespass, damage or
other matter in demand, does not exceed thirty-five dollars,
shall be heard and determined by a justice of the
peaces provided that in all cases where the sum demand
ed shall exceed seven dollars, except in actions on notes
©r bonds, vouched by two witnesses, and given for money
only, an appeal shall be allowed to the next county court :
and when an appeal shall be allowed by a justice of the
peace, to the county court, the party so appealing, shall
give sufficient bond, with surety, to the adverse party, to
prosecute such appeal to effect, and to answer all dama
ges in case he make not his plea good.
SEC. 24. When any plea shall be made in abatement
of any writ or process, before the superior or county
court, or before a justice of the peace, if it be ruled in
favor of the defendant, the plaintifff shall have liberty to
amend the defect, on paying to the defendant his cost to
that time ; and then to proceed in the same manner as he
might have done, had there been no defect in the writ :
and in case the defendant appeal from a judgment ren. dered on a plea in abatement, and shall not make good
his plea, by the judgment of the court to which he ap
peals, he shall be liable to pay cost, and execution shall
issue against him for the same, though the cause shall
finally be decided in his favor.
SEC. 25. No action commenced by a single woman,
who intermarries during the pendency thereof, shall abate
on account of such intermarriage, provided the husband
shall appear in court, and cause such marriage to be sug
gested on the record ; and he may then proceed in the
same manner, as if the suit was commenced after such
intermarriage.
SEC. 26. No writ, pleading, judgment, or any kind of
proceeding in court, or course ofjustice, shall be abated,
suspended, set aside or reversed, for any kind of circum
stantial errors, mistakes or defects, if the person and the
cause may be rightly understood and intended by the
court.
SEC. 27. When any action shall be pending in any
superior or county court, and the plaintifff, before final
judgment, shall die, the same shall not abate, if it might
originally have been prosecuted by his executor or ad
ministrator ; and in such case, the executor or adminis
trator may enter their names in the suit, if they see
cause, and prosecute the same. And if the defendant,
while the action is pending in court, and before final
judgment, shall die, the same shall not abate, if it might
originally have been prosecuted against his executor or
administrator ; and the plaintifff, or his executor or ad
ministrator, may have a writ of scire-facias against the
executor or administrator of such deceased defendant, to
shew cause why judgment should not be rendered against
them ; which being served at least twelve days before
the sitting of the court, to which the same is returnable,
and returned, the action shall proceed to final issue, ac
cording to law.
SEC. 28. In any action pending before a court, if
there be two or more plaintifffs or defendants, and one or
more of them die, before final judgment, if the cause of ac
tion survive to the surviving plaintifff or plaintifffs, or
against the surviving defendant or defendants, the writ
or action shall not abate : but such death being suggested
on the record, the action shall proceed.
SEC. 29. The parties shall make their pleas, and join
issue, according to the rules and orders established by the
court; and in case the plaintifff shall refuse to obey the
order of the court in pleading, he may be nonsuited ; and
in case the defendant will not make his plea or join issue,
judgment may be rendered against him upon nihil dicit.
SEC. 30. The general issue of not guilty, owe nothing,
did not assume, and promise, no wrong or disseisin, or
any other general plea proper to the action, whereby the
whole declaration is put in proof, according to the na
ture of the action, may be made by the defendant ;
under which general plea, the defendant shall have lib
erty, on the trial of the cause, to give his title in evidence,
or any special matter in his defense and justification, ac
cording to the nature of the action ; excepting only a dis
charge from the plaintifff,, or his accord, or some special
matter, whereby the defendant, by the act of the plaintifff,
is saved or acquitted from the plaintifff's demand in the
declaration ; provided, that the defendant shall not give
in evidence, under the general issue, any special matter,
which, by the rules of the common law, ought to be plead
ed specially, unless at the time of making his plea, he
gives notice thereof in writing, stating.such special mat
ter. (3)
SEC. 31. It shall be lawful for the defendant, in any
suit, to plead, by special leave of the court, as many several matters, by distinct pleas, as he shall think necessary
for his defense. If any such matter or plea shall, upon
demurrer joined, be judged insufficient, cost may be giv
en to the plaintifff, at the discretion of the court, though
the other issue of issues may be decided in favor of the
defendant. If a verdict shall be found, on any issue join
ed in the cause, in favor of the plaintifff, costs shall be al
lowed to him, though on some other issue, the defendant
should be entitled to judgment; unless the court that tried
such issue, shall be of opinion, that the defendant had
probable cause to be plead such matter, which, upon the
issue, has been so found against him. And in actions of
replevin, where the defendant makes avowry, the plain
tiff shall have right to plead double, in the same manner
as the defendant in other cases, and shall be governed by
the same principles.
SEC. 32. Whenever the defendant in any suit upon a
bond, note, or other chose in action, not negotiable, shall
i , . . . -» ,, t \. j • plead, or give in evidence the discharge, admission, or
other act of the plaintifff, or any payment made to him, or
transaction whatsoever, between the plaintifff and defendant,
it shall be lawful for the plaintifff to reply, or prove,
as the case may require, an assignment of such chose in
action, and notice thereof given to the defendant ; and on
the same being made to appear, such discharge, admis
sion, payment, or other transaction, shall be no otherwise
available in such suit, in favor of the defendant, than the
same would or ought to be in a court of equity.
SEC. 33. In any action on any note, bond, or other
contract, to which there is a condition annexed, which
condition, and any breach or breaches thereof, are not set
out in the plaintifff's declaration ; and the defendant
having prayed oyer of, and set out, such conditions, pleads
performance thereof, and the plaintifff replies thereto,
setting forth any breach or breaches of such condition,
the defendant may, with leave of court, rejoin as many
several matters, by distinct rejoinders, as he might have
pleaded, had such condition, and breach or breaches
thereof, been set forth in the declaration.
SEC. 34. In all actions, brought for the recovery of a
debt before any court in this state, wherein the plaintifff
lives or resides out of this state, or is a bankrupt, or insol
vent, and where there shall be mutual debts between the
plaintifff and defendant in such action, one debt may be
set off against the other, and such matter may be given in
evidence, under the general issue, or pleaded in bar : but
such matter shall not be given in evidence as aforesaid,
unless notice be given, at the time of pleading, to such
action, of the debt intended to be set off, and on what ac
count it has become due : and no debt, claimed by assign
ment, shall be set off, unless the plaintifff had notice, at
the time of commencement of the action, that such
debt was due to the defendant. And in every action,
wherein the defendant shall claim a set-off as aforesaid,
and it shall appear upon the trial, that the plaintifff in
such action is indebted to the defendant, the court, before
whom the trial shall be, shall give judgment for the de
fendant, to recover the same of the plaintifff, with his cost:
provided, that no justice of the peace shall give judgment
for the recovery of such balance, where the same shall
exceed the sum of thirty-five dollars.
SEC. 35. The. plaintifff may amend any defect, mis
take or informality in the writ or declaration, without
cost, within the three first days of the term of the court
to which it is returnable ; and at any time afterwards, on
the payment of cost, at the discretion of the court ; pro
vided such amendment shall not change the form or
ground of the action: and the defendant shall have rea
sonable time to answer the same. (4)
SEC. 36. The parties respectively, shall have liberty
to amend any defect, mistake, or informality in the plead
ings, or other parts of the records or proceedings. When
either party shall suppose, that in any part of the plead
ings, he has missed the ground of his plea, and that he
can plead a different plea, that will save him in his cause,
he shall have liberty to change such plea, replication or
rejoinder, as the case may be, and plead anew : and the
other party shall have reasonable time to answer the
same. And in all cases when a party amends or alters
any part of the pleadings, or pleads anew, if it shall occa
sion any delay in the trial, or inconvenience to the other
party, he shall be liable to pay cost, at the discretion of
the court. And all courts shall have power to restrain
the amendment and alteration of pleas, so far as may be
necessary to compel the parties to join issue in a reason
able time for trial.
SEC. 37. All actions in the superior and county courts,
where an issue is joined on any matter of fact, shall be
tried by a jury of twelve men of the neighbourhood, qualified, empanneled, and sworn according to law. (5)
SEC. 38. Thecivil authority, select-men, constables and
grand-jurors in the several towns, shall, some time in the
month of January, annually, meet and choose, by ballot,
to serve as jurors in the county and superior courts, in
the county to which such towns belong, such number of
their able and judicious freeholders as is prescribed by
law, each of which shall have a freehold estate, set in the
list at nine dollars or more. There shall be a bor
provided in the several towns, at the cost of the town,
with a lock to it, and lodged in the hands of the townclerk
; and when the jurors are chosen as aforesaid, the
town-clerk shall write each man's name, so nominated, on
a piece of paper by itself, and put the several names, so
written, in the said box, and keep the same, locked, in
his hands, that the said names may be drawn as is hereaf
ter provided.
SEC. 39. At some convenient time before the sit
ting of the aforesaid courts, the clerks of the same shall
summon fifteen jurors to attend such courts, andshallissue warrants directed to either of the constables of the
several towns, or some of them, in the county in which
the court is to be held, to summon and warn so many
able, judicious and lawful freeholders of the town as their
warrant directs, to attend and serve as jurors at such
court; and such constable shall repair to the town-clerk,
and, in his presence, (or in case of his absence) in the
presence of one of the select-men of such town, or a
justice of the peace, draw out of the box aforesaid, the
number his warrant directs him to summon, without see
ing the names he draws'before he draws them ; and shall
then summon for jurors, those men whose names he has
so drawn.
SEC. 40. But if any or all whose names are so drawn,
shall be, at the time, dead, others in his or their room shall
be drawn and summoned as aforesaid. And the constable
shall make timely return of his warrant to the clerk that
issued the same, with an indorsement certifying whom he
has summoned for the purpose aforesaid, on pain of for
feiting to the treasury of the county, a sum not exceeding
five dollars, at the discretion of the judges of the court ;
unless such constable shall seasonably make his excuse
to the acceptance of said court.
SEC. 41. And if any of the jurors, summoned as afore
said, do not appear, or shall, for any cause, be excused:
from attending court, the court may, at their discretion,
from time to time, direct the clerk to issue a warrant or'
warrants, to summon, in manner as aforesaid, additional;
jurors, so as to prevent, as far as may be consistent with,
the convenient dispatch of business, the necessity of fill
ing up the panel of jurors with the names of persons not
designated and summoned as aforesaid.
SEC. 42. The clerks of said courts, respectively, in;
empanneling the jury for the trial of each cause, shall,
when more than twelve jurors are attending, as aforesaid,
designate, by lot, the names of those who shall compose
the panel ofjurors.
SEC. 43. If any juror chosen, drawn and summoned
as aforesaid, shall make default of appearance, according to the direction of the warrant, he shall forfeit to
the treasury of the county wherein he dwells, the sum of
two dollars, unless the court, on hearing the excuses made
in his behalf, shall judge them sufficient.
SEC. 44. If a sufficient number of jurors, summoned
as aforesaid, do not appear, or if, by reason of challenges,
or some other cause, there shall not be a sufficient num
ber of lawful men to make up the panel the court may
order the sheriff to return such number of good and
lawful freeholders of the county, as may be necessary
for that purpose ; and when the sheriff is interested, or
related to either of the parties, the court may direct the
constable, <Jr such officer as they shall appoint, to make
such return ; which jurors, being so returned, shall per
form the duty required of them, on the same penalty as
is inflicted on those who make default of appearance ;
and- when the jury are empanneled, they shall take the
oath prescribed by law.
SEC. 45. The parties shall have process of subpoena
or summons, signed by the clerk of the court, or a iustice
of the peace, to be served by an officer, or indifferent
person, to bring their witnesses into court : and if any
person, upon whom a subpoena shall be served to appear,
and testify in a cause pending before any court, and to
whom one day's attendance and fees for travelling to
court have been tendered, shall neglect, or refuse to ap
pear and testify, without reasonable excuse, he shall for
feit five dollars, and pay all damage to the party aggriev
ed, to be recovered, by a proper action, in his name : and
it shall be lawful for the court, on due proof of the service
of the subpoena, and the tender of the fees as aforesaid,
to issue a capias, directed to some proper officer, to arrest
such witness, and bring him before the court to testify.
SEC. 46. When any witness, in a civil cause, lives out
of the state, or more than twenty miles from the place
of trial, is going to sea, or out of the state, or by age,
sickness or bodily infirmity, is unable to travel to court,
oi is confined in gaol on legal process, his deposition
may be taken, by a justice of the peace ; provided reason
able notice shall be given to the adverse party, or his
known agent or attorney, if either of them live within
twenty miles of the place of caption, or left at his usual
place of abode, to be present at the time of taking such
deposition ; and depositions may be taken in any other
state or country, by a magistrate, having power to ad
minister oaths. And the witness shall be cautioned to
speak, the whole truth, shall be carefully examined, shall
subscribe his deposition, and make oath to it, before a
justice of the peace, who shall attest the same, certify
that the adverse party, or his agent, was present, (if so)
or that he was notified, if living within twenty miles ; who
shall also certify the reason of taking such deposition :
shall seal it up ; direct it to the court where it is to be
used ; and deliver it, if desired, to the party at whose
request it was taken.
SEC. 47. The party, his attorney, or any person in
terested, shall not write, draw up, or dictate any deposi
tion : and every deposition so drawn up, or that shall be
returned to the court unsealed, by any other hand than
that of the justice of the peace who took it, or the seal of
which shall be broken, shall be rejected by the court.
SEC. 43. Every justice of the peace shall nave power
to issue a subpoena, upon request, for the appearance of
any witness before him in a civil cause, where he is bound
to sea, is going out of the state, or lives more than twenty
miles from the place of trial ; and to take his deposition,
the adverse party, or his agent, being present, or duly
notified, if living within twenty miles of the place of
caption : and if such witness should refuse to appear, the
justice of the peace may issue a capias, and cause him to
be brought before him ; and if he shall refuse to give his
deposition, the justice of the peace may commit him to
prison till he will comply. And in like manner, the de
positions of witnesses living in this state, may be taken,
to be used as evidence in a suit depending in any court of
judicature in any other of the United States, on applica
tion of either of the parties to such suit.
SEC. 49. The clerks of the several county and su
perior courts shall have power to open any deposition
directed to the courts of which they are respectively
clerks, either in vacation, or during the session of the
court, in open court, or elsewhere, as may be conven
ient.
SEC. 50. Whenever any person shall be desirous of
perpetuating the testimony of witness or witnesses, con
cerning any matter which may be the subject of a suit in
law or equity, he may present his petition to any judge
of the superior court, or to the chief judge of any county
court at any time, setting forth the necessity or expedi
ency thereof, the names of the witnesses, the subject mat
ter of the controversy, and the names of all persons in
terested therein, and praying that the depositions of the
witness or witnesses may be taken and perpetuated ;
and thereupon the said judge shall make an order, ap
pointing a time and place for the respondents in such per
tition to appear before him, and shew cause why the
prayer of the petition should not be granted, and pre
scribing such notice thereof to the parties, whether resi
dent in this state or not, as he may think reasonable.
And if, at the time appointed, the said judge shall find,
on due proof being made thereof, that notice hath been O
given according to said order, he shall further direct, if S
no sufficient cause be shown to the contrary, that said
depositions shall be taken, either by himself or any other
person or persons whom he may appoint for that pur
pose, and at such times and places as he may prescribe.
SEC. 51. The depositions taken in pursuance of this D
Act, shall be sealed up and directed to the clerk of the
superior court in the county where the petitioners, or
some of them, dwell ; and the clerk -shall open and lodge
the same on file, together with the petition and the several
orders of the judge, and proceedings thereon.
SEC. 52. Copies of the depositions taken in conform*
ity to the directions of this act, and duly certified by the
clerk, shall be available in all cases in law and equity, in
the same manner as depositions taken during the pend
ency of a suit.
SEC. 53. The judge or other person or persons taking
■aid depositions, may adjourn from time to time, as necessity
or convenience may require, giving notice there
of to the parties present ; and shall have power to cause
the attendance of a witness or witnesses in this state, by
subpeena and capias, as in ordinary civil actions.
SEC. 54. Either judge of the superiorcourt, when the
court is not in session, shall have power, when necessary,
to issue a commission to take the deposition of any person or persons, resident out of this state, to be used in a
cause pending before such court, notice being given to
the adverse party to appear before such judge ; and the
chief judge of each county court, shall have the same
power, when the court is not in session, on giving notice
to the adverse party, if the deposition is to be used in a
cause pending before the county court, of which he is
JudSesect.
55. In all cases wherein a commissioner or commissioners shall be appointed, according to the laws, usages
or customs of any of the states or territories of the
United States to take testimony or depositions in writing
in this state, to be used and improved in any of the courts
•f said states or territories such commissioner or commis
sioners so appointed, may apply to any justice of the
peace for a writ of subpoena or capias, as the case may
require, to cause or compel the appearance of any wit
ness before such commissioner or commissioners to give
testimony before them.
SEC. 56. If any person who shall have been duly
summone(i as a witness to testify before such commission
er or commissioners as aforesaid, according to law, shall re
fuse to appear and give his testimony ; such justice of
the peace may commit such person to prison until he
will comply.
SEC. 57. An exemplification by the secretary of this
state, of the laws of the several states in the United States,
which have been, or shall hereafter be, transmitted, by
order of the executives or legislatures of the same, to
the governor of this state, and by him deposited in the
office of the said secretary, shall be admissible in evi
dence, in any court in this state.
SEC. 58. The public statutes of the several states in
the United States, printed by authority thereof, shall be
legal evidence ; and the courts shall take notice of them
judicially.
SEC. 59. When the clerk of any court, town, society
or corporation is absent, or is, by sickness, or otherwise,
unable to perform the duties of his office, the files, records,
votes and proceedings of such court, town, society or
corporation may be proved in any court of law, by copies
examined and sworn to, by credible witnesses.
SEC. 60. In all public offices and corporations, where
entries or records are made of their acts, votes and pro
ceedings, by some officer appointed for that purpose, a
copy thereof, certified under the hand of such officer,
and the seal of such office or corporation, (if there be
any) shall be legal evidence : and if any such officer
shall, knowingly, make a fale certificate, he shall be
punishable in the same manner as if guilty of perjury.
SEC. 63. It shall be competent for all corporations,
created by private acts, in suits where their corporate
rights are concerned, to declare and plead in the same
manner, as if erected by public acts.
SEC. 62. It shall be the duty of the court to decide
all questions of law arising in the trial of a cause, and in
committing the cause to the jury, to direct them to find
accordingly ; and to submit all questions of fact to the ju
ry, with such observations as they may think proper on
the evidence, for their information, without any direction
how they shall find the facts. (6) After the cause is comuntied to the jury, no pleas, arguments or evidence shall
be received, before the verdict is returned into court and
recorded.
sect. G3. The court shall determine questions of law, S
referred to them, by the jury, in a special verdict, which d
the jury may give, when they entertain doubts respecting
the poinds of law arising in the cause, or when the parties
request it : in which special verdict they shall find the
facts, and state the question of law—to wit—If the law be
so, in such a point, then we find for the plaintifff'; but if
the law be otherwise, then we find for the defendant.
And when the jury find a verdict in favor of the plaintifff,
they shall assess the damages he shall be entitled to recover.
SEC. 64. The court shall have power, if they judge
the jury have mistaken the evidence in the cause, and
haVe brought in a verdict contrary to it, or where they
have brought in a verdict contrary to the direction of the
court in a matter of law, to return them to a second con
sideration, and for like reason shall have power to return
them to a third consideration, and no more.
SEC. 65. The 1ury, after a cause has been committed
to them, shall be under the chargeof an officer appointed
by the court, who shall permit no person to be present
with them, or to speak to them, when assembled for de
liberation : nor shall the jurors converse with any person
but among themselves, relative to the cause under con
sideration, before they have returned their verdict ; and
when they have agreed upon a verdict, they shall return
it to the court.(7) If any juror shall converse with any
person concerning the cause, except his fellows, while it
is under consideration, or shall voluntarily suffer any
other person to converse with him, such verdict, on mo
tion, may be set aside, and the court before whom such
action is pending, shall cause suchjuror to come before
them, and if, on due inquiry, they shall find him guilty,
the court shall inflict on him a fine of seven dollars, for
the use of the state ; and if any juror shall be convicted a
second time of such offense, he shall be forever disqualined to sit as a juror in any case whatever. And if the of
ficer appointed to attend on the jury, or any of the jurors,
shall be guilty of any disorderly conduct, or shall neglect
and refuse to perform their respective duties, or shall dis
obey the orders of the court, then the court may inflict a
fine on such officer or juror, not exceeding four dollars.
SEC. 66. In all actions pending before the superior
and county courts, where the parties shall join issue upon
any matter of fact, and agree to, and do, put themselves
on the court, for the trial of such issue, the judges of such
court shall have power to hear and try the same, without
a jury, and to award damages and costs, and grant exe
cution thereon, in the same manner, and on the same
principles, as in trials by jury.
SEC. 67. In all cases where the parties join in demur
rer, or in an issue in law, the same shall be heard and
determined bythe judges of the court: and the court shall
render judgment on all verdicts of the jury, according to
their finding, with cost, unless the same shall be set aside.
And in all cases where judgment is rendered otherwise
than on verdict, in favor of the plaintifff, the court shall
assess and award the damages he shall recover.
SEC. 68. In actions on penal bonds, containing condi
tions which have been forfeited and broken, the court,
or jury, when tried by the jury, shall find and assess such
damages as are justly and equitably due, and judgment
shall not be rendered for the whole penalty, unless it ap
pear to be due. And if upon a bond with conditions, the
breach of which may happen at different times, a suit be
brought upon the first breach of such conditions, the
court, upon the forfeiture of such bond found on trial,
demurrer, confession, or otherwise, shall render judg
ment for what is due in equity, at the time, with cost,
and award execution thereon. And upon any further or
other breach, or neglect of performance of any other
particular, in the condition annexed to, or indorsed upon
said bond, the obligee, his executors or administrators,
may take out a scire-facias against the obligor, his exe
cutors, or administrators, from the clerk of the court in,
which the judgment was given, to shew cause why exe
cution should not be awarded for the money then due,
or damages then sustained : and the court shall render
judgment for what shall appear to be due in equity, and
grant execution thereon ; and so from time to time, till
all the particulars mentioned in the condition are per
formed and completed : provided, that the whole amount
of such judgment shall not exceed the penalty in the
bond with interest.
SEC. 69. All actions, wherein the matter in demand
does not exceed the value of seventy dollars, and all actions brought on bond or note, given for the payment of
money only, vouched by two witnesses, (except such
matters as may be tried by a justice of the peace) shall
be heard, and finally determined, by the county court.
SEC. 70. In any action brought to and tried by the.
county court, wherein the title of land is drawn in question,
and determined, or wherein the debt, damage, or
matter in dispute shall exceed the value of seventy dol
lars, (except it be on bond or note, vouched by two wit
nesses,) if either party shall be aggrieved by the sen
tence or judgment of such court, an appeal shall be al
lowed to the next superior court in the same county :
and in actions of trespass quare clausumfregit, wherein
the damages demanded shall be less than seventy dollars,
brought to the county court, in which the title of lands
shall be in question between the parties, it shall be the
duty of such county court, on the trial thereof, to cause a
record to be made, that the title of lands was in question
in such action, and thereupon an appeal shall be allowed
to the superior court, as in other cases ; and such ap
peals shall be entered during the term of the sitting of the
court from whence they shall be made ; and sufficient
bond, with surety, shall be given, by the party appealing,
to the adverse party, to prosecute such appeal to effect,
and answer all damages in case he make not his plea
good. And all appeals to the superior court shall be en
tered before the second opening of saidcourt, and not af
ter, unless the appellant shall pay to the appellee all his
cost in such case arisen to that time, which shall not be
refunded, howeverthe cause may eventually be determin
ed : which cost, being taxed and paid, the action maybe
entered by the appellant, before the jury attending such
court are dismissed, and not after : and if the appellant
do not enter his appeal before the jury are dismissed,
the appellee may enter the same after the jury are dis
missed, and have the judgment of the county court af
firmed, with additional cost, and execution granted ac
cordingly.
SEC. 7. . Whenever an appeal is taken from the county
court to the superior court, in an action not appealable, the superior court shall remand it to the county
court, from whence it came, by appeal, and such county
court, on the remanding thereof, may, on motion, for any
just and reasonable cause appearing, grant a new trial
thereon, or make such order as to justice shall appertain.
And if the superior court render a judgment in a cause
appealed as aforesaid, and the same is brought, by way
of error or complaint, before the supreme court of errors,,
and is by such court reversed, on the ground of its not
having been appealable, it shall be the duty of said su
preme court, to remand the same to the county court as
aforesaid ; and thereupon the said county court may, on
motion grant a new trial thereon, or make order on thesame
as aforesaid.
SEC. 72. In all actions brought before any justice of
the peace, demanding not more than seven dollars damaages,chargingthe defendantwith raising or obstructing the
waters of any stream, river, creek, or arm of the sea, by
the erection of any mill, dam, or other obstructions, in
which the defendant shall justify the same, by a special
plea, stating or alleging a lawful right ; and in all actions
brought before any justice of the peace, demanding not
more than seven dollars damages, charging the defendant
with an injury done to land, in which the defendant shall
justify the same by a special plea, stating or alleging a
right of way ; the party who shall be aggrieved by the
judgment of such justice of the peace, shall be allowed
an appeal to the next county court, in the same county,
on giving a bond, with sufficient surety, to prosecute his
appeal to effect. And the party who shall be aggriev ed
by the judgment of such county court, shall be allowed
an appeal to the next superior court, in the same county,
on giving bond, with sufficient surety, to prosecute his
appeal to effect ; and the defendant, in all actions appeal
ed as aforesaid, shall not, without liberty of such county,
or superior, court, amend, alter, or change the plea so
made, before such justice of the peace.
SEC. 73. When, in an action of trespass quare clausumfregit,
brought before a justice of the peace, demand
ing not more than seven dollars damage, the defendant,
shall justify, by a plea of title to the land, a record shall
be made thereof, and the matter of fact shall be taken to
be confessed, and the defendant shall become bound to
the adverse party, before such justice of the peace, with;
sufficient surety, hi a recognizance in a sum not exceed
ing seventy dollars, that he will prosecute his plea, and
enter such cause in the next county court, in the county
where the land lies, and prosecute the same to effect, and
pay all damages and cost, if he fails to make his plea
good : and if he neglect to give such bond, his plea shall
be rejected, and the action proceed. And it shall be the
duty of the defendant, when he has pleaded and given
bond as aforesaid, to obtain certified copies of the pro
ceedings before the justice of the peace ; for which he
shall pay the same fees as are paid to clerks of courts for
copies, and to enter the same in the docket of such county
court, before the second opening of the same ; and if he
should fail to do it, he shall be liable, on such recogni
zance, to pay to the plaintifff all the damage he has sus
tained. And if on trial, before such court, he shall fail
to make out a title paramount to the title of the plaintifff,
he shall pay-treble damages and cost.
SEC. 74. In all actions of trespass, and trespass on the
case, tried in any county or superior court, if the dama
ges therein found, by the verdict of the jury, or otherwise,
shall not exceed seven dollars, the plaintifff shall recover
no more cost than damages, unless the title of land, the
right of way, or the right to the use of water, is in ques
tion. And in all actions of assault and battery, and of
assault and battery and false imprisonment, and of slan
der, in which the plaintiii shall recover in the superior
court, by verdict of the jury, or otherwise, a sum not
exceeding seventy dollars, he shall recover no cost, which
accrued by reason of the appeal : Provided, that when
the defendant, in any of the actions aforesaid, shall re
move such action, by appeal, from a justice of the peace
to the county court, or from the county court to the su
perior court, the plaintifff, on recovering final judgment
against the defendant, shall recover his full costs of suit.
SEC. 75. Whenever two or more suits or actions at
law shall be pending in the same court, at the same time,
for the recovery of the same debt, damage or demand ; or
whenever two or more suits shall be pending before the
same court, at the same time, against two or more officers,
upon receipts for executions, arising from the same ori
ginal judgment, the court before which such suits shall
be pending, shall not tax or allow any bills of costs, in
any such suit or suits, unless such court shall be of opin
ion that the commencement of such several suits was ne
cessary to secure said debt, damages, or demand.
SEC. 76. The superior and county courts shall and
may, from time to time, as occasion may require, and as
by them shall be judged reasonable and proper, grant new
trials of causes that shall come before them, for mis-plead
ing, or discovery of new evidence, or for other reasonable
cause, according to the common and usual rules and
methods in such cases. When the superior court shall
be of opinion that the verdict of the jury is against the
evidence given in the cause, they may, at their discretion,
make a statement of the evidence, and report the same to
the supreme court of errors, in the county where such
action is pending, at their next session ; and if such court
shall be of opinion, that the verdict is against the evidence
in the cause, they shall have power, at their discretion,
to grant a new trial. (8)
SEC. 77. Writs of error may he hrought to the supe
rior court, from the judgments of the county and city
courts, and of justices of the peace, for any error in the
same, to be proceeded with according to the course of
the common law : and when, on such writ of error, the
judgment of the inferior court shall not be reversed, hut
affirmed, by the superior court, the defendant shall recov
er cost against the plaintifff: but if, on such trial, it shall
be determined that the judgment complained of is erro
neous, the court shall reverse and set aside the same, and
the plaintifff shall recover all he has been damaged there
by ; but no cost on the writ of error, in case of a reversal,
shall be allowed for either party.
SEC. 78. When any judgment shall be reversed, the
plaintifff in the original action, on which such erroneous
judgment was given, may enter his action in the said su»
perior court, (unless reversed on the principle that shews
the action cannot be sustained,) where it shall be pro
ceeded with, and tried in the same manner, as if it had
or could have been brought there by appeal. And the
whole cost in the said action, (excepting the cost on the
writ of error,) shall be allowed and taxed in favor of him
who shall recover final judgment : provided, that when
the original action is of such a nature, that it cannot be
tried in the superior court, and it appears that further
proceedings may be had in the county court, it shall be
the duty of the superior court to remand the same to the
county court, in which such erroneous judgment was ren
dered, who shall proceed therein in the same manner as
in other cases of the like kind, brought originally to said
county court.
SEC. 79. The courts having cognizance of writs of
error, upon the affirmance of any judgment or decree, or
upon a nonsuit or withdraw, by the plaintifff in error,
may, according to their discretion, adjudge and decree to
the defendant in error, besides his cost, the interest of the
money delayed by such writ of error, and grant execu
tion accordingly.
SEC. 80. Writs of error shall be allowed and signed,
by the judges of the court, to which they are returnable ;
and the judge signing the writ shall take good and suffi
cient bond, with surety, that the plaintifff in error shall
prosecute his suit to effect, and answer all damages, if he
fail to make his plea good. And writs of error shall be
served by the officer's leaving a true and attested copy
thereof with the defendant in error, or at his usual place
of abode : or if he be not a resident of this state, then
with the attorney who appeared in the original cause.
All writs of error, wherein there are more than one defendant
in -error, may be served, by leaving a true and
attested copy thereof, by some proper officer, with one
of the defendants in error, or at his or her usual place of
abode, and on the other defendant or defendants in er
ror, by reading the same, by a proper officer, in his, her
'or their hearing, or by copy in manner aforesaid. And
whenever a writ of error is to be served on the petitioners for a highway, it shall be legal service for the writ to be
read in the hearing of any of the three first signing petitioners, or an attested copy thereof left at the usual place of
abode of either of the said three first signing petitioners,
twelve days inclusive before the day of the court's sitting.
SEC. 81. Whenever final judgment is rendered in the
superior court, in any case in which a party may be eni
, . « J ,. -.»i 4r
titled to a writ of -error therein, to the supreme court oi
errors, such party may, in the same term, and within
twenty-four hours after final judgment, file his motion
that the record in such case may be transmitted to the
next supreme court of errors, which would have cogni
zance of a motion for a new trial in said case, and if, on
such motion, the superior court shall be of opinion that
the same is not intended for delay, but that the questions
arising on the record are such as entitles the party to a
revision thereof, such court may allow the motion, if the
party moving shall give sufficient security, by recognizance,
to the adverse party, to pay all damages, if he fail
to prosecute the same to effect ; and thereupon a copy
of the record shall be entered on file in the next supreme
court of errors, who shall proceed therein in the same
manner as on a writ of error.
SEC. 32. All executions issued by the clerks of the
superior court, or of the county courts, or by justices of
the peace, may be directed to any officers proper to serve
the same, in any of the counties in the state ; and the of
ficers to whom the same are directed and delivered, shall
duly and faithfully serve and return the same, according
to the directions therein given ; which being returned,
shall be kept on file in the office out of which they issued.
And all writs of execution shall be made returnable with
in sixty days, or to the next court, (in case sixty days are
remaining between the next court and the date of the
execution,) at the election of him who prays out the
same : and all executions granted by justices of the peace,
shall be made returnable in sixty days : and all sheriffs
and constables shall have power to execute any writ of
execution to them directed within their own precincts.
SEC. 83. Executions shall be granted against the
goods, chattels, lands and body of the debtor ; and when
any execution is taken out and delivered to the sheriff
or constable, to whom it is directed to serve, he shall
repair to the debtor's usual place of abode, if within
his precincts, unless he finds him at some other place, and
make demand of the debt, or sum due on such execution,
with his lawful fees, and upon refusal or neglect of pay
ment of the same, such officer shall indorse on the execu
tion when and where he made demand of the debt and
sum due thereon, and shall levy the same on the personal
estate of the debtor, except such estate as is hereinafter
exempted from execution or warrant ; and on such es
tate also, if the same shall be presented by the debtor.
And the officer shall advertise and post such estate, with
a particular account thereof, on the sign-post in the soci
ety where taken, to be there sold at public vendue, at
the end of twenty days, specifying the day of the month
when the sale is to take place. And in such societies as
are made out of two or more towns, the constables of such
towns shall have the same power and authority, where
the sign-post shall be without the limits of the society to
which they belong, as other constables by law have within
their respective districts. And in case the debtor shall
not, within said twenty days, pay the debt, and all the
cost and charges, that have arisen, the officer shall sell,
at beat of drum, to the highest bidder, such goods, or so
many of them, as may be necessary to pay the execution,
and the lawful fees and expenses, and the overplus, (if any
there be) he shall return to the owner. Provided, that
necessary apparel, bedding, and household furniture,
necessary for supporting life ; arms ; military equip
ments ; implements of the debtor's trade ; one cow : any
number of sheep not exceeding ten ; and two swine ;
being the property of one person : that any quantity of
wood not exceeding two cords ; any quantity of hay not
exceeding two tons ; any quantity of beef or pork not
exceeding two hundred pounds weight ; any quantity of
.fish not exceeding two hundred pounds weight ; any quan
tity of potatoes or turnips not exceeding five bushels of
each ; any quantity of Indian corn or rye not exceeding
ten bushels of each, and the meal or flour manufactured
therefrom; any quantity of wool or flax not exceeding
twenty pounds weight of each, or the yarn or doth made
therefrom ; one stove, and the pipe belonging thereto -;
being the property of any one person having a wife or
family : and that the horse, saddle and bridle of any prac
tising physician or surgeon, of a value not exceeding one
hundred dollars, shall be exempted, and not be liable
to be taken, by warrant or execution, for any debt or tax
whatever.
SEC. 84. In case personal estate of the debtor, sufficient to satisfy the debt and charges cannot be found,
and the creditor shall not agree to accept or take the
debtor's lands, the officer shall levy the execution on the
body of the debtor, and him commit to the common gaol
in the county in which the execution is levied, where he
shall remain till he pay the debt, and the lawful fees and
charges. And every officer who shall commit any person
to prison, by virtue of distress or execution, shall deliver
a copy of the writ or execution, signed by such officer, to
the keeper of the gaol, which shall be a sufficient warrant
to him to hold such person in safe custody, tUl he be de
livered in due course of law.
SEC. 85. When personal estate, sufficient to pay the
sum mentioned in the execution, and the lawful fees and
charges, cannot be found, by the officer, or shall not be
tendered by the debtor, or his attorney, to be taken on
such execution, then such officer, by the direction of the
creditor, or his attorney, may levy the same on the lands,
tenements or real estate of the debtor, holden in his own
right, and the same shall be appraised, by three indifferent
freeholders of the town where the lands lie, or if that
town be a party, then of the next adjoining town, one of
whom shall be appointed by the creditor, and another by
the debtor, and if they do not agree in appointing a third,
or if either party neglect to appoint, the officer may ap
ply to any justice of the peace in the town, (who by law
may judge between them in civil causes,) who shall ap
point one or more appraisers, as the case may require :
which appraisers, being sworn according to law, shall
make an estimate of such land or real estate, according
to its true value, in writing under their hands, or either
two of them, and the same deliver to such officer : who
shall thereupon set out to the creditor, by metes and
bounds, so much of the lands as may be sufficient, at the
appraisal, to pay the debt on the execution, and the law
ful charges, if sufficient, if not, so much as there may be^
to be indorsed in part payment of the execution, accord
ing to its value at its appraisal. (9)
SEC. 86. It shall be the duty of the officer to cause
such execution, with his proper indorsement thereon, of
such appraisal, and his proceedings, to be recorded at
length, in the records of the town-clerk, where the lands
or real estate lie ; and he shall have thirty-four cents for
causing the same to be recorded, with additional fees for
his travel : and he shall then return such execution into
the office of the clerk of the court from whence it issued,
there to be kept on file. And all executions served, re
turned, and recorded as aforesaid, shall vest all the title
of the debtor, in the creditor, his heirs and assigns.
SEC. 37. When the sheriff of any county shall receive
executions from the treasurer of the state, against the in
habitants of any town or towns, for the arrears of public
taxes, and shall levy the same on the estate of such in
habitants, or any part of them, and take their receipts for
such estate, to be delivered at the place of sale, according
to law, and on the failure of the delivery of such estate,
shall obtain judgment and execution thereon, against the
inhabitants of such towns, or any part of them, the judges
of the county court, in the county where the parties be
long, may, at the request of the sheriff, depute and em
power some suitable and indifferent person, to serve and
return such executions : which persons, deputed as afore
said, shall have the same power and authority, in serving
such executions, as sheriffs by law have. And such sher
iff shall be responsible for any neglect or default of every
person, deputed at his request as aforesaid, in the same
manner as for his deputies.
SEC. 88. When the body of any person is attached,
and for want of bail is committed to prison, the person so
committed shall not be holden in prison, by virtue of such
commitment, for a longer time than five days after the
rising of the court in which final judgment shall be ren
dered ; and in case no execution shall be taken out, and
levied upon the person of such imprisoned debtor, within
five days as aforesaid, the keeper of the gaol, upon his.
fees being paid, may not hold such prisoner any longer,
by virtue of such commitment.
SEC. 89. The levy of executions on the rights or
shares, which any person owns in the stock of any bank,
insurance company, turnpike Company, or other corporation, together with the interest, rent and profits due and
growing due thereon, shall be, by leaving a true and at
tested copy thereof with the cashier, secretary or clerk,
with an attested certificate, by the officer making such
levy, that he levies upon and takes such rights or shares,
to satisfy such execution; and thereupon such officer shall
post the same according to law, and, as in other cases,
shall, at vendue, sell the same, together with such interests,
rents and profits, or so many thereof, as shall be
sufficient to satisfy such execution, or so much thereof as
such rights or shares may produce; and such officer shall
thereupon give to the purchaser, an instrument in writing, conveying to him such rights or shares ; and shall
also leave with such cashier, secretary or clerk, a true
and attested copy of the execution, and of his return
thereon ; and the purchaser shall thereupon be entitled
to all dividends and stock, and to the same privileges, as
a member of such company or corporation, as such
debtor was entitled to. And whenever any proper offi
cer shall, with a writ of attachment or execution, apply
to such cashier, secretary or clerk, for the purpose of so
attaching or levying upon such rights or shares, the
cashier, secretary or clerk shall furnish him with a certificate, under his hand, in his official capacity, ascertaining
the number of rights or shares the defendant holds in
the stock of such bank, company or corporation, with the
encumbrances thereon, if any there be, and the amount of
the dividends thereon due.
SEC. 90. When any bank, incorporated by authority
of this state, has no cashier, or the cashier is absent therefrom, or any insurance company, turnpike company, or
other company incorporated by the laws of this state, has
no secretary or clerk therein, then the rights or shares,
which any person may own in the stock of any such cor
poration, may be attached, by leaving a true and attested
copy of the writ of attachment, by the officer serving the
same, with his proper endorsement thereon, or be taken
by execution, by leaving the copies of such execution
and certificates before and after sale, in said act prescrib
ed, at the banking-house, toll-house, manufacturinghouse,
or other principal house or place in this state,
where such corporation transact their business, or ex
ercise their corporate powers ; instead of leaving the
same with the cashier of such bank, or with the secretary
or clerk of such company, as in this act is required.
TITLE 3. Arbitration:
An Act authorizing submissions to Arbitration
SECt. 1.
to be made rules of court.
SEC. 1. E it enacted by the Senateand House of Rep
resentatives, in General Assembly convenedj
That all persons desiring to end any dispute or contro
versy, by arbitration, may agree, that their submission to
arbitrators shall be made a rule of the superior court, or
of any of the county courts, or city courts, and may insert
their agreement in the submission, or in the condition of
the bond or promise ; and on producing an affidavit of
such agreement, and filing it in court, the same shall be
entered of record ; and a rule of court shall thereupon be
made, that the parties shall submit to, and be finally coneluded by, such arbitration : or such persons, desiring to
end a controversy as aforesaid, may personally appear
before the superior court, or any county court, or city
court, and acknowledge, that they have mutually agreed
to refer all their matters of difference, or any particular
dispute, to the arbitrament of certain persons by them
agreed on, and named ; and on their desiring such sub
mission to be made a rule of court, the same may be en
tered of record, and a rule of court shall thereupon be
made, that the parties shall submit to, and finally be con
cluded by, such arbitration.; and in either of the above
cases, the award of the arbitrators being returned into
court, and accepted by the same, judgment shall be rendered thereon, for the party in whose favor the award is
made, to recover the sum awarded to be paid to him, with
additional costs, and execution shall be granted accord
ingly, if the party against whom the award is made, shall
neglect or refuse to perform the same.
SEC. 2. When any personal action shall be pending
in court, if the parties desire to refer the same to arbi
tration, each may choose one person to be an arbitrator,
and the court may appoint a third ; and the award of such
arbitrators, returned into court, and accepted, shall be an
end of such controversy, and judgment shall be rendered'
pursuant to the same, and execution granted thereon,
with cost.
SEC. 3. When disputes shall be submitted to arbitration, by act of the parties, or rule of court, the necessary
witnesses may be summoned, and sworn, and shall be re
sponsible to the parties for refusing to attend, as in trials
at law ; and if guilty of false swearing, shall be punisha
ble in the same manner as for perjury.
may commit him to the common gaol, there to remain
till he complies with such order.
SEC. 3. No prosecution shall be brought but within
three years of the birth of the bastard child ; provided,
the time any person accused, shall be absent from the
state, shall not be computed.(l)
of 1672, an acl ap- lion, nor designate the prosecutor, or the
the father of a bastard mode of yielding the maintenance. The
of it, with the practice, however, has always been, for
mother, as the court shall the woman to institute a suit in her own
that the person name; and it has been decided, that a dis
mother to be the father, covery, in time of travail, is an indispento be the reputed father, sable part of the evidence. In the reviconstant
in the sion of 1784, the power was given to
bein^ pu> upon the dis- towns, chargeable with the support of a
truth, in the time of her bastard child, to continue prosecutions
proviso, that if no person begun by the mother, if she should neglect
in the time of her tra- to proceed, and to bring forward prosecuabate the conviction of lions, where she should neglect. The
This proviso is omit- present statute is made conformable to
of 1702. This statute the practical construction of the old statthe
mode of prosecu- ute. See 1 Day, 278. 1 Con. Rep. 417.
TITLE 9. Book Debts.
An Act Concerning Book Debts.
SEC. 1. TJE
it enacted by the senate and House of Rep' ' aJ rcsentatives in General Assembly convened,
That in all actions of debt on book, tried on the general
issue, the evidence of the parties, and of any other persons
interested, taken in or out of court, in such man iter
an<* form as evidence in other cases is required by law
to be taken, may be admitted by the court ; and the triers
shall well weigh and consider the credit of such winesses,.
together with the entries of the parties in their respec
tive books, and any other evidence given them, and all
the other circumstances attending such cases. (1)
SEC. 2. When the defendant, in any action of debt on
book, shall have pleaded any plea, under which it shall
be lawful to give in evidence any book account in favor
of the defendant against the plaintifff, the court may, on
motion of the plaintifff, made in reasonable time, order
that oyer shall be given to the plaintifff of the book of the
defendant, either forthwith, or within such time ' as the
court may prescribe.
SEC. 3. In every action of debt on book, wherein the
account shall be alleged to be above seventeen dollars,
the court, before which such action is pending, shall have
power to appoint not more than three able, judicious and
disinterested men, to audit and adjust the accounts be
tween the parties ; who shall have the same power, and
be sworn and proceed in the same manner, as auditors in
a proper action of account ; and their award being re
turned into court, judgment shall be rendered in pursu
ance thereof.
SEC. 4. In every action of debt on book, it shall be
lawful for the defendant to plead, in addition to the general
plea that he owes the plaintifff nothing, that the plaintifff
is indebted, or in arrear to him the defendant, to
balance book accounts ; and if it shall so be found, on the
trial, judgment shall be rendered for the defendant, to re
cover of the plaintifff the sum so found to be due, with
costs; and the party aggrieved by the judgment, on such
plea, shall have the same right of appeal as he would
have had, if the action had been brought by the defend
ant, demanding the same sum as that claimed in said plea :
Provided nevertheless, that if in any such action brought
before a justice of the peace, the defendant, in his plea,
shall claim a greater balance than thirty-five dollars, such
plea shall not be received, unless the party making the
same, shall pay to said justice, for the use of this state, a
duty of thirty-four cents, and shall enter into a recogni
zance, with sufficient surety to the adverse party, in a rea
sonable sum, to remove said cause to, and pursue his
plea, before the county court next to be holden in the
county, and to answer all damages in case he shall fail to
make his plea good ; which recognizance the said justice
shall have power to take, and when taken, he shall record
said plea ; and if the party, so removing the cause, shall
not recover final judgment for a greater sum than thirtyfive dollars, he shall not be entitled to costs ; and if final
judgment shall be rendered against him, he shall be sub
jected to double costs.
SEC. 5. If any defendant, in any action of debt on
book, brought against him before any court in this state,
shall neglect to exhibit his account on trial, to be adjusted as aforesaid, and shall afterwards bring an action
against the other party, for the recovery of such articles
of book debt as might have been adjusted and settled in
the trial of the former action, if he recover judgment for
such debt, he shall not be allowed any costs ; unless he
make it appear, to the satisfaction of the court before
whom the trial is, that he had no knowledge of the former
suit, before the time of trial, or was inevitably hindered
from appearing and exhibiting his account as aforesaid.
TITLE 21. Courts.
An Act for constituting and regulating Courts,
and for appointing the times and places of
holding the same.
SEC. 1.  TlE it enacted by the senate and House of Rep*
* " JU resentatives in General Assembly convened,
That there shall be a supreme court of errors in this
state, which shall consist of one chief judge and four as
sociate judges, who shall be appointed for that purpose,
from time to time, by the general assembly, any three of
whom, when met for that purpose, agreeably to law, shall
constitute a quorum, for doing the business of said court.
SEC. 2. Every cause that shall be brought to, or re
moved for trial, into the supreme court of errors, shall be
entered and tried in that county, where such cause, or
judgment complained of, was originally entered, tried or
rendered in the superior court ; and the clerks of the su
perior courts, in the several counties, shall be clerks of
the supreme court of errors, in their respective counties :
Provided nevertheless, that the secretary of state is em
powered and authorized to give certified copies of the
records of the supreme court of errors, remaining in his
office.
SEC. 3. The supreme court of errors shall have final
and conclusive jurisdiction of all matters, brought by way
of error, or complaint, from the judgments or decrees of
any superior court, in matters of law or equity, wherein
the rules of law, or principles of equity, appear from the
files, records, or exhibits of said court, to have been mis
takenly, or erroneously adjudged and determined ; and
said supreme court of errors is hereby empowered, au
thorised and enabled to take cognizance of all such causes
as shall be brought before them, as aforesaid, and are
invested with all the power and authority, necessary for
carrying into complete execution, all their judgments,
decrees, and determinations, in the matters aforesaid, ac
cording to the laws, customs and usages of this state ?
and their judgments, decrees, and determinations, shall
be final and conclusive, on all concerned.
SEC. 4. The supreme court of errors shall, from time
to time, as shall be necessary, assign to the judges thereof,
the county or counties, in which they shall respect
ively hold a superior court, as is hereinafter provided ;
but the same judge shall not hold a superior court in the
game county, at two successive terms thereof.
SEC. 5. The supreme court of errors are hereby empowered
to institute such rules of practice, for the regulation of said court, and of the superior courts, in the sev
eral counties, as shall be deemed most conducive to the
administration of justice.
sect. G. Whenever, by any casualty, none of the judges
of the supreme court of errors shall attend, on the day,
and at the place, appointed by law, for the holding of said
court, the sheriff of the county where said court is ap
pointed to be holden, may adjourn the court from day
to day, till one or more of said judges do attend, and then
such judge, or judges, as may attend, may adjourn said
court from day to day, till a quorum be present ; or they
may, (or if none attend, within twenty-four hours after
the time appointed for holding said court, the said sheriff
is directed to,) continue the causes there pending, and
adjourn accordingly, without day.
SEC. 7. In all causes decided by the supreme court
of errors, the judges shall publicly assign the reasons 0f
their judgment, at the term in which the cause shall be
decided, or at the next succeeding term.
SEC. 8. The supreme court of errors shall, annually,
appoint a reporter of the Judicial decisions of said court,
who shall receive such compensation for his services, as
the general assembly shall, from time to time, direct,
SEC. 9. Be it further enacted, That there shall be a
superior court of judicature of this state, to be holden an
nually, in each of the counties thereof, at the times and
places hereafter in this act designated, by one of the
judges of the supreme court of errors, assigned for that
purpose, as is herein before provided ; which court shall
have cognizance of all causes, of a criminal nature, as is,
or shall be, prescribed by law ; and shall also have cogni
zance of all causes, real, personal, or mixed, of a civil na
ture, between party and party, which shall be brought be
fore it, by appeal, writ of error, scire-facias, complaint,
petition, or otherwise, according to law, and the same to
try, by a jury, or otherwise, as the law may direct, and
therein to proceed to judgment, and award execution
thereon. But in all trials before the said court, when
the punishment, in case of conviction, is death, the said
superior court shall consist of at least two judges ; and
the judge who may be assigned to hold the court, where
such trials are to be had, shall call to his assistance, one
or more of the other judges of the supreme court of er
rors.
SEC. 10. And the superior courts shall, also, have ju
risdiction of all suits for relief in equity, wherein the val
ue of the matter, or thing in demand, exceeds the sum of
three hundred and thirty-five dollars, and to inquire into
the facts relating to the same, by themselves, or by a
committee, and proceed therein to final sentence and de
cree, and enforce the same, according to the rules of
equity ; and all suits for relief in equity, against any
judgment given, or cause depending at law, in the supe
rior court, shall be brought to the said court.
SEC. 11. The chief judge of the supreme court of
errors, or in his absence from the state, or inability to act,
any two of the other judges, are hereby empowered to
call a special superior court, upon any extraordinary oc
casion, and to designate the judge or judges, who shall
hold the. same.
SEC. 12. When the judge, assigned to hold the supe
rior court in any county, shall, by sickness, or other cas
ualty, be prevented from holding the same, the chief
judge is hereby authorized and directed to hold the same,
or to designate some other judge for that purpose ; and
whenever it shall so happen that the judge assignedto hold
any superior court, shall be absent, on the day, appointed
by law for holding the same, it shall be the duty of the
sherififof the County, where such court is to be holden, to
adjourn, by proclamation, the same, to the next day, and
from day to day, till a judge shall appear to hold the same.
SEC. 13. The judges of the superior court are hereby
fully authorized and directed, to appoint and swear a clerk
of the superior court, in and for each county in this state,
(and, if need be, an assistant clerk,) whose duty it shall
be, and he is, hereby, fully empowered to grant executions
on judgments rendered in and by said court, in the
co(unty in and for which he is appointed, and to do all
things proper for him as clerk of said court, in the execu
tion of his office, according to the rules, orders and di
rections of said court, and according to law ; and the re
cords and proceedings of said court, in each county, shall
be and remain in the custody of the clerk of said court,
appointed in and for such county.
SEC. 14. The superior court shall have power, at
every session, in all causes pending before them, which
may require a hearing, or trial, at the next succeeding
session, to order and direct, all pleas to be entered and
closed, ready for trial ; and said courts may, when they
deem it necessary, order such pleas to be filed, and en
tered in the offices of the clerks of said court, at any time
during the several vacations.
SEC. 15. It shall be the duty of the superior court,
in any county, whenever the state of the business pending before the same, shall require it, to adjourn any ses
sion thereof, from time to time, as shall be deemed
expedient.
SEC. 16. Be it further enacted, That there shall be
held and kept in each ctfunty in this state, yearly and
every year, at the times and places hereafter, in this act,
mentioned, two or more sessions of the county courts, by
a chief judge, and two associate judges, appointed and
commissioned for that purpose; any two of whom shall
have power to hold said courts : which shall have power
to hear, examine, try and determine, by a jury or other
wise, all causes of a civil nature, real, personal, or mixed,
and also all criminal matters, which may be regularly
brought before them, according to law ; and shall also
have jurisdiction of all suits, for relief in equity, wherein
the matter or thing in demand shall not exceed the sum of
three hundred and thirty-five dollars, (excepting suits for
relief against any judgment rendered, or cause depending
at law, in the superior courts,) and may proceed therein
to final sentence and decree, and enforce the same, ac
cording to the rules of equity.
SEC. 17. In the absence of, or legal exception to, the
chief judge of any county court, the senior associate judge
present, and qualified, shall preside, and be subject to all
the duties, and invested with all the powers, for the time
being, as the ehief judge ; and when it shall so happen,
that,by reason of the absence of, or legal exception to, any
two of the judges of any county court, there shall be but
one judge present, qualified to try any cause pending in
,, J * K . ,'? , \, . s. -r, D
the same, the said judge may call to his assistance any
one of the justices of the peace, for the same county, not
legally disqualified to judge in said cause, and proceed to
the trial of the same.
SEC. 18. The chief judge of each county court, may
call a special county court, upon any extraordinary oc
casion ; and the judges of said court may adjourn the
same, when they shall deem it necessary, to some distant
time ; and whenever it shall so happen that no more than
one of the judges of said court shall appear on the day,
and at the place, appointed by law, for holding the court,
the said judge may adjourn the same, from day to day,
till a quorum of judges do attend ; and whenever no one
of the judges of said court shall appear on said day, the
sheriff of the county in which the said court is to be holden,
is hereby directed to adjourn the same, from day to
day, till one or more of the judges do attend, to hold said
court.
SEC. 1. 9. The county courts are authorized to appoint
and swear their own clerks, and assistant clerks, (when
ever deemed necessary) and treasurers, for their respect
ive counties ; which clerks, so appointed and sworn,
are empowered to sign all writs and processes, as justices
of the peace by law are ; also, to grant executions on
judgments rendered by said courts, on which executions
are to be issued, and to do all other matters and things,
according to the orders and directions of said courts,
proper for them in the execution of said office, and ac
cording to law.
SEC. 20. The chief judge, or presiding judge, for the
time being, of the county courts, whenever there shall be
an equai division of opinion, on any question before said
courts, shall have a casting voice. The like power and
authority, every president or moderator, in any civil court,
arbitration, meeting, or assembly, shall exercise, in simi
lar cases, except when the law provides otherwise.
SEC. 21. The county courts may alter and establish
rules of practice in their respective courts ; may direct
when pleas shall be filed and entered ; may make such
rules and regulations as to them shall seem proper, re
lative to the admission and practice of attornies ; may
approve of, admit, and cause to be sworn as attornies,
such persons as are qualified therefore, agreeably to the
rules established, which admission shall be registered by
the clerk ; and no person not thus admitted, (except in
his own cause,) shall be admitted or allowed to plead at
tlie bar of any court ; nor shall more than one attorney
be allowed to plead on the same side of any cause, except wherein the title of land, or right of way, may be in
question, or the sum in demand shall exceed forty dol
lars ; and in no case, shall more than two attornies be
admitted to plead, on the same side. And said attornie3
shall be under the direction of the courts before whom
they plead ; and said courts may fine them, not exceeding one dollar for any one offense against their rules, or
suspend, or displace them, for transgressing the rules of
pleading, or other rules or regulations established by
said courts, or for other just cause.
SEC. 22. And the county courts in each county, shall
appoint one attorney for the state, who shall prosecute,
manage, and plead in the county where appointed, in all
matters proper for, and in behalf of the state ; and who
shall hold his office for two years, unless sooner removed
by said courts. Each attorney for the state, before
entering upon the duties of his office, shall take the oath
prescribed by the constitution for executive officers, and
shall give bond, with surety, to the treasurer of the state,
and to his acceptance, in the sum of three thousand dol
lars, conditioned that such attorney shall annually ac
count for, and pay over, according to law, all monies be
longing to the state, which he may receive as attorney for
the state. And whenever the attorney for the state shall
be absent or disqualified to act in any cause, the county
or superior court before whom the same is pending, may
appoint a special attorney for the prosecution of the
cause in question ; and also, on application of the at
torney for the state, may appoint an assistant attorney,
to aid in the prosecution of any suit, information or indictment.
SEC. 23. The county courts, in the respective counties, are hereby authorized and directed to take care of
all the property, real and personal, in their respective
counties, which belongs to such county ; and the same to
let, demise and manage, for the benefit of such county ;
and when they shall judge expedient, may sell or purchase
real estate ; and all conveyances of estates, to, or from
a county, shall be done in the name of the treasurer of
the county, and his successors in office ; and the said
courts may, at their discretion, license any suitable per
son, who is keeper of the gaol in either of the counties,
and resident in a house belonging to such county, to be a
taverner.
SEC. 24. The several courts herein before mentioned,
shall be held at the times and places herein after spe•c j j • r i , rf . , _,, r
cmed, to wit. —In the county oj Hartford : 1 he supreme
court of errors, on the second Tuesday in June. The
superior court, on the second Tuesday in February ; and
on the first Tuesday in September. The county court,
on the fourth Tuesday in March; on the second Tuesday
in August ; and on the second Tuesday in November. —
In the county of New-Haven : The supreme court of
errors, on the Tuesday following the fourth Tuesday in
June. The superior court, on the third Tuesday in Jan
uary ; and on the second Tuesday in August. The coun
ty court, on the third Tuesday in March ; on the fourth
Tuesday in June ; and on the fourth Tuesday in Novem
ber. —In the county of New-London : The supreme court
of errors, on the third Tuesday in July, alternately at
New-London and Norwich, beginning at Norwich in
1822. The superior court, at Norwich on the fourth
Tuesday in January ; and at New-London on the first
Tuesday in October. The county court, on the first
Tuesday in March, alternately at New-London and Nor
wich, beginning at New-London ; on the second Tues
day in June, at New-London -T on the third Tuesday in
November, at Norwich.—In the county of Fairfield : The
supreme court of errors, on the fourth Tuesday in June,
alternately at Fairfield and Danbury, beginning at Danbury.
The superior court, on the fourth Tuesday in
September, at Danbury ; and on the last Tuesday in De
cember, at Fairfield. The county court, on the second
Tuesday in February, alternately at Fairfield and Dan
bury, beginning at Danbury, in 1 822 ; on the third Tues
day of April, at Fairfield ; and on the third Tuesday in
November, at Danbury. —In the county of Windham :
The supreme court of errors, on the fourth Tuesday in
July. The superior court, on the first Tuesday in Janu
ary ; and on the second Tuesday in September. The
county court, on the third Tuesday in August ; on the
third Tuesday in March ; and on the second Tuesday in
December. —In the county of Litchfield : The supreme
court of errors, on the third Tuesday in June. The su
perior court, on the third Tuesday in February ; and on
the third Tuesday in August. The county court, on the
first Tuesday in April ; on the fourth Tuesday in Sep
tember ; and on the third Tuesday in December. —In
the county of Middlesex : The supreme court of errors,
on the second Tuesday of July, alternately at Middletown
and Haddam, beginning at Middletown. The su
perior court, on the fourth Tuesday in February, at
Middletown ; and on the fourth Tuesday in August at
at Haddam. The county court, on the Tuesday after
the first Monday in April, at Haddam ; and on the third
Tuesday in October, at Middletown. —In the county of
Tolland : The supreme court of errors, on the Tuesday
following the fourth Tuesday in July. The superior
court, on the third Tuesday in April ; and on the fourth
Tuesday in December. The county court, on the
second Tuesday in March ; and on the second Tuesday
in September.
SEC. 25. Be it further enacted, That there shall be a
court of probate, held and kept in each of the several
districts, hereinafter mentioned, to be held by one judge,
to be appointed and commissioned for that purpose, each
of which judges shall have a clerk, by him to be appoint
ed and sworn to the office ; which courts of probate shall
have the cognizance of the probate of wills and testaments,
the granting of administration, the appointing and
allowing of guardians, and shall act and judge in all tes
tamentary and probate matters, and in every other thing
proper for a court of probate to act and judge in, accord
ing to law.
SEC. 26. The districts of the several courts of probate,
shall be as follows, to wit :—The towns of Hartford,
Windsor, Wethersfield, East-Hartford, Manchester, and
Glastenbury, shall be one district, by the name of the
district of Hartford. The towns of New-Haven, Milford,
Derby, Woodbridge, East-Haven, North-Haven, Hamden, Oxford, and Orange shall be one district, and be
called the district of New-Haven. The towns of NewLondon, Lyme, Montville, Waterford, and that part of
Salem which was formerly in the town of Lyme, also
that part of Salem .which was taken from the town of
Montville, shall be one district, and be called the district
of New-London. The towns of Fairfield and Weston,
shall be one district, and be called the district of Fair
field. The towns of Windham, Lebanon, Mansfield,
Hampton, and Chaplin, shall be one district, and be call
ed the district of Windham. The towns of Plainfield,
Canterbury, Killingly, (except the north society,) Voluntown,
Sterling, and that part of Brooklyn which was for
merly a part of Canterbury, shall be one district, and be
called the district of Plainfield. The towns of Guilford
and Branford, (except the society of Northford,) shall be
one district, and be called the district of Guilford. The
towns of Woodbury, Southbury, Roxbury, Betfilehem,
and the society of Judea, in the town of Washington,
shall be one district, and called the district of Woodbury.
The towns of East-Haddam, Colchester, Marlborough,
and the part of Salem that was formerly a part of Col
chester, shall be one district, and be called the district
of East-Haddam. The towns of Litchfield, Goshen,
Torrington, Cornwall, Harwinton, Warren, and Washington, (except the society of Judea) shall be one districtand
be called the district of Litchfield. The towns of
Stamford, Greenwich, and Darien, shall be one district,
and be called the district of Stamford. The towns of
Danbury, Reading, Ridgefield, and New-Fairfield, shall
be one district, and be called the district of Danbury.
The towns of Norwich, Preu^on, Lisbon, Franklin, Bozrah,
and Griswold, shall be one district, and be called
the district of Norwich. The towns of Middletown,
Haddam, (except that part which lies east of Connecticut
river,) and Durham, shall be one district, and be called
the district of Middletown. The towns of Pomfret, Ashford,
Woodstock, the north society in Killingly, Thomp
son, and that part of Brooklyn, not included in the dis
trict of Plainfield, shall be one district, and be called the
district of Pomfret. The towns of Sharon, Salisbury,
and Canaan, shall be one district, and be called the dis
trict of Sharon, , The towns of Stafford, Tolland, Willington,
Somers, Union, Vernon, and the east part of
Ellington, extending as far west as the west line of Tol
land, shall be one district, and called the district of Staf
ford. The towns of Simsbury, Canton, New-Hartford.,
and Barkhamstead, shall be one district, and called the
district of Simsbury. The towns of Stonington, Groton,
and North-Stonington, shall be one district, and called
the district of Stonington. The towns of Farmington,
Southington, Bristol, and Burlington, shall be one dis
trict, and be caHed the district of Farmington. The
towns of Wallingford, Cheshire, Meriden, and the society
of Northford, in the town of Branford, shall be one dis
trict and called the district of Wallingford. The towns
of Saybrook and Killingworth, shall be one district, and
called the district of Saybrook. The towns of Stratford,
Huntington, Trumbull, Bridgeport, and Monroe, shall be
one district, and called the district of Stratford. The
towns of East-Windsor, Enfield, and that part of Elling
ton, which lies west of a meridian line drawn from the
north-west corner of Tolland, shall be one district, and
called the district of East- Windsor. The towns of Waterbury,
Watertown, Plymouth, Wolcott, and Middlebury,
shall be one district and called the district of Waterbury. The towns of Norfolk, Colebrook, and Winchester,
shall be one district, and called the district of Norfolk.
The towns of New-Milford, Kent, and Sherman, shall be /
one district, and called the district* of New-Milford.
The towns of Hebron, Coventry, Bolton, and Columbia,
shall be one district, and called the district of Hebron.
The towns of Norwalk, New-Canaan, and Wilton, shall
he one district, and called the district of Norwalk. The
towns of Granby and Hartland, shall be one district, and
be called the district of Granby. The towns of Newtown and Brookfield, shall be one district, and called the
district of Newtown. The town of Suffield shall be one
district, and be called the district of Suffield. The town
of Chatham and that part of the town of Haddam situated
on the east side of Connecticut river, shall be one dis
trict, and be called the district of Chatham. The town
of Berlin shall be one district, and be called the district
of Berlin.
SEC. 27. The judges of the several courts of probate
are hereby authorized to hold their said courts, in any of
the towns within the districts for which they are or shall
be appointed.
SEC. 28. Whenever any disputable and difficult matter
shall appear in any case, depending before any judge
of a court of probate, such judge may call to his assistance
any one or two of the judges of the county court, of that
county, in which such disputable matter may arise.
SEC. 29. Whenevervthere shall be so near a relationship
between any deceased person, and the judge of probate of the district in which such deceased person last
dwelt, as between father and son, by nature or marriage,
or brother and brother, in like manner, or between such
judge and any person or persons interested in the estate
of such deceased person, as legatee, devisee or heir at law;
or whenever any judge of probate shall be interested in
the estate of any deceased person, as being legatee, or
devisee, or heir at law ; or if any person, while acting as
executor or administrator of the estate of any deceased
person, in any court of probate, shall become the judge
of said court ; in every such case, such judge shall be disqualified
to act as judge, in the settlement of such de
ceased person's estate, and the cognizance thereof, shall
appertain to the judge of probate in an adjoining district,
who may by law act, and who resides nearest to the residence
of the judge so disqualified ; and the judge so resi
ding in an adjoining district, shall, in every such case,
have full authority to proceed to a final settlement of the
estate of such deceased person, and shall cause his doings
to be recorded in the probate records of the district
wherein such deceased person dwelt. And in cases
where a judge of probate is by law authorized to act as
judge in a district adjoining to his own, he may hold his
court in any of the towns either of his own, or of such ad
joining district. And if any claim on an insolvent estate
is to be reviewed in any probate district, and the judge
therein shall be related to any person interested in such
estate, in so near a degree as is herein specified, such
claim shall be heard and decided by the judge of probate
in an adjoining district, residing as aforesaid, and two jus
tices of the peace, or one judge of the county court in the
county ; and their judgment on such claim shall be final,
and recorded in the records of the probate district, where
in such estate is settled ; and the judge of probate, in
6uch district, shall conform to such judgment in further
proceeding upon such estate.
SEC. 30. Whenever during the recess of the general
assembly, the office of judge of probate, in any district,
shall become vacant, by the death of the judge, the judge
of probate of an adjoining district, who may by law {pet,
and who resides nearest to the last residence of such de
ceased judge, shall have full power to execute the office
of judge of probate in such vacant district, until a judge
for such district shall be appointed and sworn.
SEC. 1. 1. The supreme court of errors, the superior
-courts, the county courts and the courts of probate shall
have a proper seal belonging to each of the said respec
tive courts, to be used for all causes, matters and things
proper for said courts, respectively, and according to law ;
each of which courts is hereby directed and empowered
to procure its proper seal, which shall be lodged with the
clerks of the respective courts, to be used by their di
rection.
SEC. 32. Be it further enacted, That each and every
justice of the peace, duly appointed and sworn, may, and
he is hereby authorized, from time to time, as there shall
be occasion, to hold a justice court in the county, for
which he shall be appointed ; and shall have cognizance
of all actions of a civil nature, legally brought before
him, and may hear, try and determine the same, and
may render judgment, and grant execution thereon, ac
cording to law. And every justice of the peace, is here
by authorized to issue and sign any writs, warrants or
other processes, according to law, either in civil or criminai
causeSi which may be served and returned before
any court in the state.
SEC. 33. Any justice of the peace, within the county
for which he may be appointed, may take and accept a
confession or acknowledgment of any debt, from a debtor
to his creditor, for any sum not exceeding seventy dol
lars, together with the cost of such confession, as the
parties shall agree ; which confession shall be made only
by the person of the debtor himself : and on such con
fession, so made, the said justice shall make a record
thereof, and grant execution thereon, in due form of law.
And all executions, granted and signed by a justice of the
peace, according to law, shall be proceeded with, levied
and executed, in the same manner, and have the same
frrce, to all intents and purposes, as executions granted
hy the other courts..
SEC. 34. And anyjustice of the peace, in any court,
holden by him, in the county for which he may be appointed, shall have cognizance of all actions of a crimi
nal nature, that may be legally brought before him, and
may proceed to trial, render judgment therein, and grant
a warrant for the execution thereof, according to law.
But the defendant, in all such, actions or complaints, (except
in actions or complaints for the crimes of drunkenBess, profane cursing and swearing and sabbath-breaking)
may appeal from the judgment of the justice therein, to
the county court, next to be holden in the county, where
such justice court may have been holden.
SEC. 35. And whenever any complaint, for any criminal
matter, shall be legally brought before a justice of the
peace, which is by law cognizable by a higher court, such
justice is hereby authorized to hear and inquire into the
facts relating thereto, and if thereupon he shall be of
opinion, that probable ground exists for the support of
such complaint, he may order the defendant to give
bond, or to enter into a recognizance, with sufficient
surety, (provided the offense be by law bailable) condi
tioned that the defendant appear before the court hav
ing cognizance of the offense, at the next session thereof,
to be holden in the county where the offense was com
mitted, and abide the order or judgment of said court,
touching said complaint, which complaint the said justice
shall transmit to said court, with his doings thereon in
dorsed ; and on the failure of such defendant to give
such bond, or to enter into such recognizance, or if the
offense complained of be not bailable, it shall be the
duty of said justice of the peace to order such defendant
to be committed to the common gaol in said county, till the
next session of the court having cognizance of the offense,
or till he shall be discharged by due course of law.
SEC. 36. Anyjustice of the peace, in his county, shall
have power, from his personal knowledge^ ex officio, to
require sureties of the peace and good behavior, from any
person or persons, that threaten to beat or kill another,
or contend, with bat and angry words, or by threats, tur
bulence and violence, or by any other unlawful act, terri
fy and disturb the good people of the state. And when
ever an individual shall complain, on oath, to a justice of
the peace, against another, that he has just cause to fear
that he will imprison, beat, or kill him, or procure others
to do so, and that he is under fear of death, or bodily
harm, such justice of the peaces mav require sureties of
the peace and good behavior, from the person so cornplained
of; and if any person being so ordered to find
surety for the peace and good behavior, shall neglect or
refuse to comply with such order, the justice of the peace
ordering the same, may commit such person to the com
mon gaol, in the county where the person complained of
resides, there to remain until he shall be discharged by
due course of law, or until the next session of the county
court in said county ; which court may make further or
der, relating to the subject matter of the complaint.
SEC. 37. No judge, or justice of the peace, shall hold
the office of sheriff, deputy-sheriff, or constable, or be a
taverner.
SEC. 38. Whenever there shall be so near a relation-ship
between any judge, or justice of the peace, and any
party in a civil action, as between father and son, by na
ture or marriage, brother and brother, in like manner,
uncle and nephew, in like manner, landlord and tenant; or
whenever any judge or justice may be liable, in any man
ner, to contribute, out of his estate, to the damages, cost
or expenses of any action ; or whenever he may receive
a direct pecuniary benefit, by the determination thereof ;
in all such actions, the said judge or justice, shall be dis
qualified to act as judge, or render judgment. When a
judge of the superior court shall be disqualified to sit in
a cause depending before him, such cause shall be contin
ued to the next term of the court.
SEC. 39. When all the judges of the county court shall
be disqualified to sit in a cause pending before them,
which is not appealable, the clerk of the court shall draw,
by lot, from the names of all the justices of the peace, in
the town where the1 court is sitting, the names of three
justices of the peace, or if such town is interested, from
any adjoining town, not interested ; and shall cause no
tice to be given to the three justices of the peace, drawn
as aforesaid, who shall have power to try such cause, ac
cording to law : and if such cause shall be appealable,
then the plaintifff shall have power to remove it to the
next superior court, in the county, on giving bond, with
surety, to prosecute his action to effect: and he may enter
his' action in the superior court, in the same manner as if
appealed : and such superior court shall have power to
proceed to final judgment, in the same manner as if the
cause had been brought there by appeal.
SEC. 40. The courts of law, may make such orders
as they shall deem reasonable, relative to the notice
which shall be given of petitions for new trials, writs of
error, and appeals from courts of probate, whereof they
respectively have cognizance, whenever the adverse par
ty Or parties to such petition for a new trial, writ of error,
or any person or persons are interested in such appeal,
as that they ought to be made parties thereto, reside
without this state ; and such notice having been given,
pursuant to the orders of such courts respectively, in the
mode therein prescribed, and duly proved to such courts,
shall be deemed sufficient service.
SEC. 41. The judges of the supreme court of errors,
of the superior and county courts, judges of probate, and
justices of the peace, shall be appointed, by the concur
rent vote of the senate and house of representatives ; and
the judges of the supreme court of errors, and of the su
perior court, shall, in all cases, be chosen by ballot, in
each house of the general assembly. And all judges and
justices of the peace, annually appointed, commissioned,
and sworn, shall be authorized and empowered to execute
their offices until the twentieth day of June, in the year
next ensuing their appointment, unless their commission
he sooner revoked, or suspended, by act of the general
assembly. (1)
TITLE 29. Equity.
An Act regulating proceedings in Equity.
SEC. 1.  E it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepS3
res'entatives in General Assembly convened,
That the several courts having jurisdiction of suits
Drought for relief in equity, shall have power to proceed
according to the rules, usage, and practice in courts of
equity ; and shall take cognizance of matters only in
which adequate relief cannot be had in the ordinary
course of law. They shall keep records of their proceed
ings ; and shall have power to enforce their decrees, by
granting execution thereon against the estate or person of
the defendant, or in any other manner proper for a court
of equity ; and no appeal shall be allowed from their
sentences or decrees. All bills or petitions, preferred to
a court of equity, shall be signed by the party, and shall
be accompanied with a summons, signed by lawful au
thority, notifying the defendant or respondent to appear
before the court ; and shall be served, by some proper
officer, on the defendant or respondent, by reading, or
by leaving a true and attested copy, at his usual place of
abode, at least twelve day$ before the sitting of the court.
And whenever the defendant or defendants, named in the
bill or petition, shall live out of the state, the court to
whom the same is preferred, and has cognizance there
of, or either judge of such court, in vacation, shall have
power to make such orders, relative to the notice which
shall be given, as they shall deem reasonable ; and such
notice having been given, pursuant to the order of such
courts respectively, in the mode prescribed, and duly
proved to such courts, the same shall be sufficient ser
vice ; and the court may proceed to a hearing thereof, at
the first term, if they shall judge proper.
SEC. 2. It shall be the duty of courts of equity, to
cause the facts, on which they found their decrees, to ap
pear on the record, either from the pleadings or decree.
And courts of equity shall have power to pass the title to
real estate, by decree, without any act to be done on the
part of the defendant or defendants, when, in their judg
ment, it shall be the proper mode to carry the decree
into effect : and such decree having been recorded in
the records of the town where the land lies, shall, while
in force, be as effectual to transfer the same, as the deed
of the defendant or defendants.
SEC. 3. When any minor under the age of twenty-one
years, shall be interested in any mortgaged, or other real
estate, which, in equity, ought to be conveyed to any
other person or persons, and such conveyance is decreed
and ordered, by the court having cognizance of the same,
the guardian of such minor is hereby authorized and
empowered to make and execute such conveyance, in
behalf of such minor ; which conveyance, so made, shall
be good and effectual in law. And the said court shall
have power to enjoin such guardian to make the same,
under a suitable penalty.
SEC. 4. And if such minor have no guardian, at the
time of bringing such suit, the said court is hereby authorized
to appoint one ; and the guardian so appointed, shall
have power to do every thing in behalf of such minor,
proper for his defense in such suit ; and for carrying the
decree of the court therein into effect.
SEC. 5. The superior court of this state shall be, and
,, . , K . , .. , .
they are hereby authorized, as a court ol equity, on petition
brought before them, to authorize and direct the taking of depositions, to perpetuate the evidence of facts,
where no suit is depending, agreeably to the rules and
usages in chancery proceedings ; which depositions, so
taken, shall be available in any court of law or equity in
this state, in the same manner as depositions taken during
the pendency of a suit.'
SEC. 6. Either of the judges of the superior court,
shall have power, on motion, to grant and enforce writs
n. . ,.r n. - ...
ot injunction, according to the course ot proceedings in
courts of equity, in all cases within the jurisdiction of
the superior court, arising in any county where such
court shall not be in session. ' And all writs of injunction
shall be made returnable to the next superior court in
such county, which court may proceed therein accord
ing to the course of proceedings in equity. And no
writs of injunction shall be issued, unless the facts stated
in the application shall be supported by the oath of the
applicant, or some indifferent witness.
SEC. 7. The chief judges of the several county courts,
in all cases within the jurisdiction of such courts, arising
in the counties of which they are judges, when such
courts are not in session, shall have power to grant and
enforce writs of injunction, returnable to the next county
court in such county, and to be proceeded with, in the
same manner, and on the same principles, as in cases of
writs of injunction, issued by judges of the superior court.
SEC. 8. The party aggrieved, may bring a writ of
error from the determination of the county court, to the
superior court, and from the determination of the supe
rior court, to the supreme court of errors, in all cases,
where material and manifest error shall appear of record,
in any decree passed by the superior or county court.
And courts of equity shall have power to grant new trials
for new-discovered evidence, or any other reasonable
cause, according to the course of proceedings in equity.
SEC. 9. Courts of equity may, at any time, permit
the parties to amend any defect, mistake, or informality
in bills, petitions or pleadings, in any suit pending before
them, on the payment of lawful costs to the other party,
at the discretion of the court : Provided, that the plain
tiff may amend his bill within the three first days of the
superior court to which it is returned, without costs : and
in all cases of the amendment of a bill or petition, the
court shall grant the defendant a reasonable time to make
answer thereto.
SEC. 10. When the plaintifff, in a bill in equity, shall
require of the defendant a discovery on oath, respecting
the matters charged in the bill, the disclosure by the de
fendant shall not be deemed conclusive, but may be dis
proved, or contradicted, Jike any other testimony, ac
cording to the practice in courts of equity.(l)
to the former practice, the
defendant on oath, when
the plaintifff, was held to be
could not be questioned.
defeated the plaintifff of
any benefit, in calling on the defendant for
a disclosure. To remedy this inconven
ience, the present provision was introdu
ced.
TITLE 30 Escheats.
An Act relating to the disposition of Escheats,
and other property belonging to the state.
SECt. 1.
SEC. 1. E it enacted by the Senateand House of Rep
resentatives, in General Assembly convened,
That when no owner or heir of any estate, real or per
sonal, can be found, the same shall escheat, and belong
to the state ; and it shall be the duty of judges of pro
bate to make due inquiry, in their respective districts,
after such estate, and to secure the same in the hands of
an administrator, appointed for that purpose, and to give
notice to the treasurer of the state, who is hereby impowered
to receive it from such administrator, and to dis
charge him therefrom.
SEC. 2. And the treasurer shall have power to appoint
agents to manage and take care of all property that
shall escheat to the state ; as well as of all lands or other
property, to which the state has or may become legally
entitled, by judgment or execution, for any debt, fine or
forfeiture, or in any other way whatever, except lands
belonging to the school fund : and such agents shall have
power to sell and dispose of such property, at public or
private sale, or on credit, on such terms as shall be ap
proved of by the treasurer: who is hereby authorized to
execute any deeds or conveyances, proper to transfer
the same ; which shall be good and effectual : and the
treasurer shall annually render an account to the general
assembly of his proceedings, and credit the avails of the
sales to the state : Provided, that if any heir or owner of
such estate shall appear, he shall be entitled to the same,
or if sold, to the avails thereof, after deducting the ne
cessary expenses.
TITLE 39. Forms.
An Act prescribing Forms of Writs and Pro
cesses.
SEC. 1. 13 E it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepM3
resentatives,inGeneral Assembly convened,
That the following several forms of writs and processes,
in civil causes, here under-written, be, and they are
hereby established to be the forms to be used in this state,
by the respective officers therein.
SEC. 2. Summons for appearance before a justice of
peace.
To the sheriff of the county of H. his deputy, or
either of the constables of the town of G. within
said county : Greeting.
BY authority of the state of Connecticut, you are
hereby commanded to summon A. B. of G. aforesaid, to
appear before J. H. Esq. justice of the peace for the
county aforesaid, at in H. the day of at
of the clock in the noon ; then and there to an
swer to C. D. of W. in a plea of which is to the
damage of the said C. D. dollars, and he thereforee
brings this suit. And of this writ, with your doings
therein, make due return. Dated at H. the day of
Anno Domini, J. H.
SEC. 3. Attachment before a justice of the peace.
To the sheriff, &c.
BY authority of the state of Connecticut, you are
herebv commanded to attach the goods or estate of A. B.
of F. aforesaid, to the value of dollars, and for want
thereof, to attach the body of the said A. B. (if he may
be found in your precincts) and him safely keep, so that
he may be had before J. H. Esq. justice of the peace for
the county aforesaid, at (sufficient bond for prose
cution being given.) Hereof fail not, and make due re
turn of this writ, with your doings therein, &c.
Dated, &c.
The like for summons and attachments to the county
courts, mutatis mutandis.
SEC. 4. An execution granted by a justice of the
peace.
To the sheriff of the county of H. &c. Greeting.
WHEREAS C. D. of W. on the day of before
"?' H' Esq. justice of the peace for the county aforesaid,
recovered judgment against A. B. of H. for the sum of
dollars, cents, debt, (damages) and for the
sum of dollars, cents, costs of suit, as appears
of record : Whereof execution remains to be done.
THESE are thereforee, by authority of the state of
Connecticut, to command you, That of the money of the
said A. B.,or of his goods, chattels, or lands within your
precincts, you cause to be levied, and (the same being
disposed of as the law directs) paid and satisfied unto the
said C. D., the aforesaid sums, being dollars, cents,
in the whole ; and also, that out of the said monies, goods
or chattels you levy seventeen cents more for this writ,
together with your own fees.
And for want of such money, goods, chattels or lands
of the said A. B., to be by him shewn unto you, or found
within your precincts, for satisfying the aforesaid sums,
you are hereby commanded to take the body of the said
A. B., and him commit unto the keeper of the gaol in H.
in the county aforesaid, within the said prison , who is
likewise hereby commanded to receive the said A. B.
and him safely keep, until he pay unto the said C. D. the
full sums abovementioned, and be by him released, and
also satisfy your fees. Hereof fail not, and make due
return of this writ, with your doings therein, unto the said
J. H. Esq. within sixty days next coming. Dated at H.
this day of, &c. J. H.
SEC. 5. Execution out of the superior court and coun
ty courts, respectively.
To the sheriff of the county of H. &c. Greeting.
WHEREAS C. D. of W. recovered judgment against
A. B. of F. before the. court, holden at H. within
the, county aforesaid, on the Tuesday of for
the sum of dollars, cents, debt, (damages)
and dollars, cents, costs of suit, as appears
of record : Whereof execution remains to be done.
THESE are thereforee, by authority of the state of
Connecticut, to command you, That of the goods, chat
tels, or lands of the said A. B., within your precincts, you
cause to be levied (and the same being disposed of, or
appraised, as the law directs) paid and satisfied unto the
said C. D., the aforesaid sums, being dollars
cents, irrthe whole ; with cents more for this writ,
and thereof also to satisfy yourself for your own fees.
And for want of such goods, chattels, or lands of the said
A. B., to be by him shewn unto you, or found within
your precincts, to the acceptance of the said C. D., for
satisfying the aforesaid sums, you are hereby command
ed to take the body of the said A. B., and him commit
unto the keeper of the gaol in H., in the county aforesaid,
within the said prison ; who is likewise hereby command
ed to receive the said A. B., and him safely to keep
until he pay unto the said C. D. the full sums above-men
tioned, and be by him released, and also satisfy your
fees. Hereof fail not, and make due return of this writ,
with your doings therein. Dated at H. &c,
E. K. Clerk.
SEC. 6. Summons or subpoena for witnesses.
To A. B. and C. D. &c.
BY authority of the state of Connecticut, you are
P hereby commanded to appear before the court,
to be holden at F. on the Tuesday of to testify
what you know in a certain action now depending in the
said court, between E. F. of H. plaintifff, and G. H. of'
M. defendant, in an action of . Hereof fail not, under the penalty of the law in that case provided. Date*!
at H. &c. " D. E. Clerk.
SEC. 7. A warrant of replevin hefore the county
court.
To the sheriff of F. &c. Greeting.
BY authority of the state of Connecticut, you are
hereby commanded, justly, and without delay, to cause
to be replevied to T. C, of S. his beasts, to wit, now
distrained or impounded by S. H. of N., and by him un
justly detained, as it is said : and you are to summon the
said S. H. to appear before the next county court to be
holden at F., in and for the said county, on the Tues
day of next ; then and there to answer unto the said
T. C, in a plea of trespass, wherein the said T. C. Com
plains, that the said S. H., on the day of &c. at
M., in a certain place, called &c. took the said beasts,
that is to say, and them unjustly impounded and
detained as aforesaid, until this time ; which is to the
damage of the said T. C, as he saith, the sum of
dollars, and thereforee he brings this suit, &c. (the said
T. C. having given bond according to law.) Hereof fail
not, and make due return of this writ, with your doings
therein, &c. Dated, &c.
J. H. Justice of Peace.
The like for a writ of replevin before a justice of the
peace, mutatis mutandis.
SEC. 8. Bond on writ of replevin.
YOU, A. B. and C, D. of acknowledge yourselves,
jointly and severally, bound to E. F. of in a recogniz
ance of dollars, that G. H. of shall prosecute
the writ of replevin, he hath now taken out against the
said E. F. at the next county court, to be holden at
on the Tuesday of next, (or, before the justice
of the peace to whom the same is returnable,) to full ef
fect ; and in case he make not his plea good, satisfy such
demands and dues as the said E. F. shall recover against
him. 5
SEC. 9. Bond where a person, not a party to the suit,
replevies estate attached.
YOU, A. B. and C. D. of acknowledge yourselves,
jointly and severally, bound to E. F. of in a recog
nizance of dollars, that G. H. of shall prosecute
the writ of replevin, that he hath now taken out against
the said E. F. at the next county court, to be holden at
on the Tuesday of next, (or, before the jus- Jf
tioe of the peace before whom the same is made returna-^
ble,) and in case he fail to make his plea good, to return ^
and redeliver the goods directed to be replevied to J. K., ^
the officer, who attached the same, in a suit in favor of
I
said E. F. against L. M., of so that they may be
forthcoming to be taken on the execution that may be
recovered by said E. F. in said suit ; and on failure there
of, to. pay the debt, damages and costs, that may be re
covered in said suit.
SEC. 1. 0. Bond for prosecution. B
YOU C. S. and E. C. of H. acknowledge yourselves,
jointly and severally, bound to J. L. of in a recog
nizance ef dollars, that T. R. of W. shall prosecute
the attachment he hath now taken out against the said
J. L. at the next county court, to be holden at H. on
the Tuesday of next, to full effect ; and answer
all costs and damages, in case he make not his plea good.
Taken and acknowledged in H., the day of, &c.
before me, J. W. Justice of the peace.
SEC. 11. A warrant for collecting rates.
To A. B. collector of the town rate of the town, of, &c*
Greeting.
BY authority of the state of Connecticut, you are hereby
commanded forthwith to levy and collect of the persons named in the annexed list, herewith committed to
you, each one his several proportion, as therein set down,
of the sum total of such list ; being a tax or assessment
granted and agreed upon, by the inhabitants of the said,
town of, &c. regularly assembled on the day of for
the defraying of the necessary charges arising within the
same ; and to deliver and pay the sum and sums, which
you shall so levy and collect, unto the treasurer of the
said town, (or to C. D., being by said town appointed to
receive the same) at or before the day of : And'
if any person or persons shall neglect or refuse to make,
payment of the sum or sums, whereat he or they are
respectively assessed, and set in the said list, to distrain
the goods or chattels of such person or persons, and the
same dispose of, as the law directs ; returning the over
plus (if any be) unto the owner or owners. And for
want of goods and chattels, whereon to make distress, you
are to take the body or bodies of the person or persons
so refusing, and him Qr them commit unto the keeper
of the gaol of the -said county, within the said prison ;
who is hereby commanded to receive and safely keep him
or them, until he or they pay and satisfy the said sum or
sums assessed upon him or them, as aforesaid, together
with your fees ; unless the said assessment, or any part
thereof, upon application made to the county court, shalr
be abated.
Dated at G. &c.
SEC. 12. Always provided, and it is further enacted,
That it shall be lawful for any person or persons within
this state, as often as occasion shall require, to make use
of other and diverse forms than what are before in this
act prescribed, so that the substance of the matter or
action be well contained therein, according to law.
TITLE 60. Limitations.
An Act for the Limitation of Civil Actions, and
of Criminal Prosecutions.
1 .IJE it enacted by the Senate and House of RepM3
resentatives in General Assembly convened,
That no person shall, at any time hereafter, make entry
into any lands or tenements, but within fifteen years next
after his right or title shall first descend or accrue to the
same ; and every such person, so not entering, and his
heirs, shall be utterly disabled to make such entry afterwards;
and no such entry shall be sufficient, unless an act'on sna^ De commenced thereupon, and prosecuted with
^ffe^ within one year next after the making thereof.
Provided, nevertheless, that if any person who hath, or
shall have, such right or title of entry into any lands or
tenements, he, or shall be, at the time of the first descending
or accruing of the said right or title, within the age of
twenty-one years, feme covert, non compos mentis, or im
prisoned, then such person and his heirs may, notwith
standing the expiration of the said fifteen years, bring
such action, or make such entry, as he might have done
hefore the expiration of the said fifteen years, so as such
person shall, within five years next after full age, discoTertuw^
coming of sound mind, enlargement out of pris
on, or the heirs of such person, shall, within five years af
ter the death of such person, bring such action, or make
such entry, and take benefit of the same.(l)
SEC. 2. No action shall be brought on any bond, or
Writing obligatory, contract under seal, or promissory
note not negotiable, but within seventeen years, next af
ter an action on the same shall accrue. Provided, nevertheless,
that persons legally incapable to bring an ac
tion on such bond or writing, at the accruing of the right
of action thereoh, may bring the same at any time within
four years after their becoming legally capable to bring
such action.
SEC. 3. No action of account, of debt on book, or
on simple contract, or of assumpsit, founded upon implij i i. t a • -i.- t j
ed contract, or upon any contract in writing, not under
seal, except promissory notes not negotiable, shall be
brought but within six years next after the right of action
shall accrue. Provided, nevertheless, that persons legal]y incapable to bring any such action, at the accruing of
the right of action, may bring the same at any time within
three years after their becoming legally capable to bring
such action.
SEC. 4. No action of trespass on the case shall be
brought but within six years next after 1he right of action
shall accrue.
SEC. 5. No action founded upon any express contract
or agreement, other than actions of book debt, on proper
subjects thereof, not reduced to writing, or some note or
memorandum thereof, made in writing, and signed by the
party to be charged therewith, or some other person by
him lawfully authorized ; no action of trespass ; and no
action upon the case for words, shall be brought but within three years next after the right of action shall accrue.
SEC. 6. No suit or action for any forfeiture, upon any
penal statute, shall be brought by any person or persons,
who may lawfully sue for the same, but within one year
next after the offense committed,
SEC. 7. No suit or action, either in law or equity, shall
be brought against any sheriff, sheriff's deputy, or constable,
for any neglect or default in his office and duty,
but within two years next after the right of action shall
accrue.
SEC. 8. If in any of the said suits or actions, judgment
be given for the plaintifff, and the same be reversed by
error, or a verdict pass for the plaintifff, and upon matter
alleged in arrest of judgment, the judgment be given
against the plaintifff, that he take nothing by his writ, dcclatation, or bill ; in all such cases, the party plaintifff
his heirs, executors, or administrators, as the case shall
require, may commence a new suit or action, at any time
within a year after such judgment reversed, of such judgment given against the plaintifff. And in computing the
t'me limited in the several cases aforesaid, the time, during which the party against whom there may be any such
cause of action, shall be without this state, shall b& excldded from the computation In all cases, herein before
specified, wherein, by the lav^s of this state, hitherto in
force, no time is limited for the bringing of said actions*
or a longer time is allowed therefore, than the time herein
limited, such last mentioned time shall commence on, and
be computed from, the first day of June, one thousand
eight hundred and twenty-one.
SEC. 9. No writ of error shall be brought for the re
versal of any judgment, after the expiration of three
years from the time of rendering such judgment.
SEC. 10. No petition for a new trial, in any case in
which final judgment hath been, or shall hare been ren
dered, either in chancery or at law. shall be brought, but
Within three years next after the judgment br decree com*
plained of, shall have been rendered or passed.
SEC. 1. 1. No person shall be indicted, informed against,
complained of, or in any way prosecuted, before any
court, for treason against this state, or for any crime or
misdemeanor, whereof the punishment is, or may be, im
prisonment in newgate prison, unless the indictment, pre
sentment, or complaintbe made and exhibited within three
years, next after the offense shall have been committed i
nor shall any person be indicted, informed against, com
plained of, or in any way prosecuted, before any court, for
the breach of any penal law or for other crime or misde/ r . » .
meanor, excepting crimes punishable by death, or impris
onment in newgate prison, unless the indictment, present
ment, information or complaint^ be made and exhibited
within one year next after the offense shall have been
committed. Provided, that any action or prosecution
proper for the recovery of any penalty incurred by the
breach of any df the provisions of the law relating to the
slave-trade, or concerning Indian, Mulatto, and Negro
servants and slaves, may be brought, and prosecuted at
any time within three years after such cause of action
Shall arise. Provided, that if the person against whom
such indictment, presentment, information or complaint
shall be brought or exhibited, shall have fled from, and
have resided out of, this state, during the period limited
as aforesaid for the prosecution of the offense charged,
then the same may be brought and exhibited against such
person, at any time within such period, during which he
shall reside within this state, after the commission of the
offense. And provided, also, that where any suit, indictment,
presentment, infdrmation or complaint, for any
crime or misdemeanor, is, or shall be limited by any oth
er statute, to be brought or exhibited within a shorter
time than is hereby limited, the same shall be brought or
exhibited within the time limited by such statute. (2)
. TITLE 62. Mandamus.
An Act authorizing the Superior Court to grant
writs of Mandamus, Prohibition, and Quo
Warranto.
SEC. 1. 3 E it enacted by the Senate and House of Rtp*
'M3 fesentatives in General Assembly convened,
That the superior court shall have power to issue writs of
mandamus, in cases in which they may by law be granted,
and to proceed therein, and to render judgment according
to the course of the common law.
SEC. 1. . When a writ of mandamus is issued, requir
ing the party to whom it is directed to make a return, if
such party shall refuse or neglect to do it, then the court
may issue a peremptory mandamus.
SEC. 3. When the party towhom such writ is directed*
shall make a return sufficient on the face of it, if it shall
be denied by the other party, it shall be competent for
the court to inquire into the truth of it, and if they shalf
find it to be untrue, then to issue a peremptory manda
mus, in the same manner, and on the same principle's, as
if the return was insufficient ; and to render judgment for
the complaint to recover his costs, and to grant execution
fov the same ; but if the return shall be found to be true
and sufficient, then to render judgment in favor of the
p&rty complained of, to recover his costs against the
complaint.
SEC. 4. Be it further enacted, That when any person
or persons, shall make complaint and suggestion to the
superior court, when in session, or to either of thejudges
in vacation, that any inferior court or tribunal do exceed
their jurisdiction, or hold plea of any matter, cause or
thing, whereof by law such court has not cognizance, by
which the person or persons suggesting or aggrieved ;
then in every such case, the superior court, or such judge,
is impowered to grant a rule, subscribed by the clerk of
the court, or such judge, directed to the party prosecut
ing, as well as to the judge or judges of such inferior
court, as take cognizance of matters of which they have
no right to hold plea, to appear before the superior court,
or such judge, in such reasonable time as they or he shall
appoint, to shew cause, why a writ of prohibition should
not be issued against them. If the party complained of
shall neglect or refuse to appear, said court or judge shall
issue a writ of prohibition, as prayed for ; but if such
party shall appear, he may plead any proper matter in
his defense ; and said court or judge shall have power to
examine and decide upon the truth, as well as the sufficiency, of the facts arising in the cause ; and if they find
sufficient ground, shall issue a writ of prohibition to the
party prosecuting the suit, and to the judge or judges in
the court below, commanding them to proceed no further
in the trial of the suit ; and shall also tax lawful costs in
favor of the applicant. And if the party in the court
below, or the judge or judges of such court, disobey such
writ of prohibition, then such superior court, or judge,
shall have power to punish them for the contempt, ac~
cording to the rules of the common law ; and the party
aggrieved shall have his action on the case to recover all
the damages he may sustain. But if no sufficient reasons
appear for granting a writ of prohibition, costs shall
be taxed in favor of the party complained of, and execution
granted for the same.
SEC. 5. And, be it further enacted, That when any persoa
or corporation, shall usurp the exercise of any office,
franchise or jurisdiction, the superior court shall have
power to proceed by information in the nature of quo
warranto, to punish them for such usurpation, according
to the usage and principle of the common law ; and also,
may permit an information in the nature of quo warranto,
to be filed in the name of the attorney for the state in
the county where the cause of action arises, at the reJauon
of anv person desiring to prosecute the same, against
any person usurping any corporate franchise or office,
and to proceed therein, and render judgment, according
to the course of the common law.
SEC. 6. When notice of anv rule is to be 8iven' and
service of any writ tP be made, the same shall be direct
ed to the sheriff of the county, or his deputy, or to a.
constable of the town, who shall leave a copy with the de
fendant, at such time as the court or judge shall direct,
and make due return of his doings ; and the superior
court, or a judge of such court acting in vacation, shall
have power to prescribe such time for the appearance of
the parties as they shall judge to be reasonable, to give
them an opportunity to make their defense.
y TITLE 82. Replevin.
An Act authorizing Writs of Replevin.
SEC. 1.  E it enacted by the Senate and House of RepMJ
resentatives, in General Assembly convened,
That every person shall have power to replevy his cattle,
goods or chattels, when impounded and distrained ;
provided that any estate levied upon by execution, after
judgment, or taken by warrant, for fines or taxes, shall not
be replevied.
SEC. 2. Writs of replevin shall be signed by a justice
of the peace, or other authority by law authorized to
sign writs, who shall take a bond, with sufficient surety,
conditioned that the plaintifff' shall prosecute his action to
effect, and pay all damages, and costs the adverse party
may recover against him.
SEC. 3. When the damages demanded do not exceed
thirty-five dollars, the writ shall be returnable to a justice
of the peace ; but if the demand is more than thirty-five
dollars, the writ shall be returnable to the county court.
When a writ is made returnable to a justice of the peace,
the defendant may make avowry, and demand such
damages as he may have sustained : if the damages, de
manded by the avowant, shall not exceed thirty-five dol
lars, and shall be more than seven, such cause shall be
appealable to the next county court, though the demand
in the writ of replevin does not exceed seven dollars ;
and the party appealing shall give bond, with sufficient
surety, to prosecute his appeal to effect, and answer all
damages in case he make not his plea good : if the dam
ages demanded by the avowant shall exceed thirty-five
dollars, then such cause may be removed to the next
county court, in the same manner as when the defend
ant pleads title to land in an action to trespass : Provid
ed, that the avowant shall recover no costs, unless he re
covers more than thirty -five dollars damages. And where
the parties join issue upon a plea of title, such action may
be removed in like manner.
SEC. 4. If the plaintifff in the writ of replevin shall
fail to appear, or withdraw, or become non-suit, before
issue joined, then the defendant shall have power to make
a suggestion in the nature of an avowry, stating the inju
ry he has sustained, and his claim for damages, and the
court shall proceed to inquire as on a hearing in dama
ges, and shall render judgment in favor of the defendant,
to recover such sum for the damages he has sustained as
they shall think just, and his costs. And if the plaintifff
shall withdraw, or become non-suit, after issue joined,
and before trial, the court may, in like manner, render
judgment for the defendant to recover the damages he has
sustained.
SEC. 5. When any goods or effects are attached, the
defendant in the suit shall have power to replevy the
same, on giving a bond, with sufficient surety, to the val
ue of the goods and chattels attached, conditioned to pay
the debt or damages and costs, which the adverse party
in the suit on which such goods and chattels are attached,
shall recover against him ; which writ shall be returned to
the same court? to which the writ on which the estate was.,
attached, is returnable, and lodged with the clerk of such
court, that the bond may be a security to the plaintifff for
the judgment he may recover against the defendant ; and
if the officer serving such writ of replevin, shall fail to
return such writ to such court, without the written con
sent of the party who has attached such property, he
shall be liable to pay such party double damages, in an
action brought against him for such neglect.
SEC. 6. Whenever the rights or shares of any person
or persons, in any bank, insurance company, turnpike
company, or other corporation, shall be attached, it shall
be lawful for him or them to cause the same to be replev
ied, in the same manner as in case of other property
attached : and the officer serving the writ issued in such
case, shall leave a true and attested copy with the cash
ier, clerk or secretary of the bank, insurance company,
turnpike company, or other corporation, the shares or
rights in which have been attached, and such writ shall
be returnable to the same court as the writ by which
such rights or shares were attached, and shall be so re
turned by the officer serving the same, and for his neglect
he shall be liable as in other cases ; and on a copy being
so left, the shares or rights attached shall be released
from the attachment, and the bond in the writ of replevin
shall be a security to the plaintifff in the suit by attach
ment, to recover his debt or damages.
SEC. 7. The person or persons who shall give bond
upon any writ of replevin, shall not be liable to pay any
greater sum, in any suit which may be brought on any
bond, than the value of the property replevied by virtue
of said writ.
SEC. 8. When any goods or chattels shall be attach
ed, and any person, other than the defendant in the suit,
shall claim to be the owner of them, such person shall
have power to replevy the same, on giving bond before
the justice of the peace, or other authority, signing the
writ, with sufficient surety, in a sum equal to the value of
the goods attached, conditioned to prosecute his action
of replevin to effect, and in case he fail to make his plea
good, to return and deliver the goods and chattels at
tached, to the officer attaching the same, so that they
may be forth-coming to be taken by an execution that
may be granted in the suit on which they were attached,
and on failure thereof, to pay the debt or damage that
may be recovered in such suit. And the plaintifff in such
writ of replevin may cite the party, who attached the
goods and chattels ordered to be replevied, to appear
before a proper court, to answer to a charge for unlawful
ly taking the same : and if such plaintifff shall make out
a title to such goods and chattels, he shall have judgment
to retain the same, with his damages and costs ; but if he
shall fail to make out a title, judgment shall be rendered
against him to return such goods and chattels to the ofhV
cer who attached the same, and that, on failure thereof,
he shall pay the value of such goods and chattels, or the
debt or damages and costs, recovered in the action on
which they were attached, in case they exceed in value
the amount of the debt or damages and costs.
president and directors, or such board of directors, of the
person or persons by whom the same shall have been
made, by action, before any court proper to try the same.
And when any encroachment on any turnpike road shall
have been once removed, as aforesaid, if the same shall
again be made, it shall be lawful for such president and
directors, or such board of directors, or such committee
appointed as aforesaid, to remove the same, without giv
ing further notice. And every person prosecuted for re
newing such encroachment, and convicted, shall incur a
penalty of seven dollars, for every such offense, to be re
covered by such president and directors, or such board of
directors, as aforesaid. And no appeal shall be allowed
in any suit, which may be brought by virtue of the pro
visions of this section.
SEC. 17. The property of all trees now growing, or
which shall hereafter be set out for shade or ornament,
within the limits of the highway, purchased by the Hart
ford and New-Haven turnpike company, and of all the
stones and other materials, suitable for making, or repair
ing said road, which were left on said road, when the same
was opened, and are now remaining thereon, shall be, and
the same is hereby vested and established in said compa
ny. And each and every person, who shall, without the
permission of said company, take up, cut down, or destroy
any such tree or trees, or shall remove off said road, any
stones or other materials, as aforesaid, shall forfeit to, and
for the use of said company, three times the value of such
trees, stones or other materials ; and for each tree so tak
en up, cut down, or destroyed, a further sum of two dol
lars, besides the threefold value thereof, as aforesaid ;
and said forfeiture may be recovered by suit or action, in
the name of the company only, and for their use, before
any court of record proper to try the same. But, no tree
or trees, now standing, or which may hereafter be set out,
in front of, or near any dwelling-house, for shade or or
nament, shall be liable to be removed by said company,
without the approbation of the commissioners, appoint
ed to inspect said road. ,
TITLE 109. Vexatious Suits.
An Act to prevent Vexatious Suits.
SEC. 1. BE it enacted, by the Senate and House of RepresentaU
ives, in General Assembly convened, That if any per
son shall commence and prosecute any suit or complaint
against another, in his own name, or the name of others,
without probable cause, and with a malicious intent, un
justly to vex and trouble him, he shall be liable to pay
treble damages to the party injured, and to be fined the
sum of seven dollars to the use of the treasury of the
county where the offense is committed ; and for the third
offense such person shall be proceeded against as a com*
mon barrator.

