§ 422. Justice COUrt. Issue Of process. Every justice of the
peace may hold court in the county for which he is appointed, and shall
have cognizance of all civil actions legally brought before him, and may
render judgment and grant execution therein according to law; he may
also sign and issue civil process returnable before any court.

§ 423. Justice may take confession of debt. Every justice of
the peace, in the county for which he may be appointed, may take a
confession of debt, from a debtor in person to his creditor, for any
sum not exceeding one hundred dollars, and the cost of such confession;
and he shall record such confession, and grant execution thereon, which
shall be proceeded with in the same manner and have the same force as
executions issued in civil actions.
§ 424. Justice to keep docket; entry fee. Every justice of the
peace shall keep a docket of the cases returned to him for trial, whereon
he shall enter the names of the parties; and if no trial is had and no
judgment by default, confession, or nonsuit, is rendered, the justice
shall receive from the plaintifff fifty cents for such entry.
§ 425. Justice disqualified. No justice of the peace shall act as
such in any civil or criminal matter in which he or his son, father,
brother, father-in-law, son-in-law, partner, clerk, or student, or any
other person occupying the same office, shall act as attorney, or shall
have drawn or filled up the writ, declaration, or complaint; and no
person who is acting as attorney for or against any party in any cause
shall, at the same time, act as justice of the peace in the trial of any
action in which the same party is either plaintifff or defendant.


§ 426. Procedure when justice is disqualified, when a justice
of the peace shall be disqualified, unable, or unwilling to try any civil
action pending before him, the parties thereto may, by agreement
indorsed upon the writ and signed by them or their attorneys, designate
any other justice of the peace of the town where either party resides
to try the case. But if the parties cannot agree upon any other justice,
or in case the defendant makes default of appearance, then the justice
before whom the action is pending shall, upon the written application
of the plaintifff, designate some other justice of the town where one
of the parties resides who is qualified, able and willing to act therein;
and the justice so agreed upon or designated may try the action, render
judgment, and issue execution.

SEC. 42. An Act concerning Trials
before Justices of the Peace. Substitution of one justice for
another, in Case Of need. When any justice of the peace before whom
a civil action has been made returnable or may be pending shall die,
remove from the state, or attain the age of seventy years, before he
has rendered final judgment therein, any other justice of the peace in the
same town, qualified to judge between the parties, upon application of
the plaintifff, shall take the files and records in such case and proceed
thereon as if it had been originally brought before him ; and shall cite the
defendant to appear before him at a time and place specified, to answer
to said action, which citation shall be served at least six days before the
time for his appearance. If the defendant shall fail to appear at the
time and place so specified, judgment may be rendered against him by
default.

§ 427. Trial before return day. A justice of the peace may try
any civil action pending before him before the return day, provided the
parties to the action, or their attorneys, indorse their written assent
thereto upon the writ, and agree upon the time of trial.

§ 428. Records to be left with town clerk. Upon the death
or removal from this state of a former justice of the peace, or upon his
dismissal from office on account of crime, his files and records shall be
lodged by him, or by his executor or administrator, in the town clerk's
office in the town where he last resided, and such town clerk shall demand,
receive, and safely keep said files and records, and give, when required,
true and attested copies thereof, which shall be legal evidence; and if
such former justice of the peace, or his executor or administrator, shall
refuse to deliver such files and records to the town clerk within ten
days after demand, he shall pay five dollars for each week during which
he shall so neglect or refuse to deliver the same, to the county where the
offense is committed.

§ 429. Former justice may perfect record; copies. Any former
justice of the peace who may have been removed from office for other
cause than a conviction of crime, may perfect his records from the files,
as occasion may require, and give certified copies thereof, which shall be
legal evidence.

§ 430. Judgments of justices of the peace may be recorded.
Each town clerk shall keep a record book for the recording of judgments
of justices of the peace. Any party to a civil action brought before a
justice of the peace and prosecuted to final judgment, may cause such
judgment to be recorded in the record book of the town where such action
is brought, at any time within one year after the rendition of such
judgment.
§ 431. Attested copies of such judgments as legal evidence.
All attested copies of such judgments, with a certificate of the town
clerk that they have been recorded and with the seal of said town affixed
thereto, shall be legal evidence in any court in this state.
§ 432. Judgments rendered before June 1, 1901. Sections
430 and 431 shall apply to any such judgment obtained before the first
of June, 1901, provided it has been recorded within six months after said
date.
§ 433. Files and minutes as evidence. in the absence of a
formal record, the files and minutes of a justice of the peace in any
action heard and determined by him shall be admissible as evidence
in all actions brought on such judgment after his deeease or removal
from this state.

§ 434. Justice not re-elected; pending matters, when any
justice of the peace shall not be re-elected, all processes, actions and
matters which have been begun by or brought before him, before the
expiration of his term of office, may be proceeded with by him in the
same manner as if he were still in office.

§ 462. Trial before judge; papers filed where. in all trials
of causes before a judge of the superior court that might have been
brought to such court, the judge, when a decision is reached, shall lodge
the file and papers in such cause, and a memorandum of his decision,
with the clerk of the superior court that would have been the custodian
thereof had the case been tried by the court in said county and not by
such judge, and such clerk shall thereupon become their lawful custodian.

§ 463. Case affecting land; papers filed where. in all cases
tried by a judge of the superior court that could not have been brought
to such court, the judge, when a decision is reached, if the case relates
to an interest in land, shall lodge the file and papers in the case, with a
memorandum of his decision, with a clerk of the superior court in the
county in which the land affected is located, who shall thereupon become
their lawful custodian.

§ 464. Clerk designated by judge to take papers. When a
cause shall be tried by a judge of the superior court other than those
mentioned in § 462 and 463, and it is not otherwise provided by law
where the file and papers shall be lodged, the judge, when a decision
is reached, shall designate a clerk of the superior court with whom the
same shall be lodged, and shall thereupon lodge the same with such
clerk with a memorandum of his decision, and such clerk shall thereupon
become the lawful custodian thereof.


§ 477. Cases hOW heard. In all actions for equitable relief
lawfully brought to the superior court, said court may inquire into the
facts itself or by a committee, and proceed therein to final judgment or
decree and enforce the same according to the rules of equity; and all
other civil actions brought before it according to law said court shall
hear and try, with- or without a jury, as may be proper, and proceed
therein to final judgment and execution.

§ 1685. Presidential and congressional elections; errors cor"
rected. Any elector residing in any town, who claims that he is ag
grieved by any ruling of the moderator at any election for electors of
president and vice-president and for representative in congress, or
either of them, held in his town, or that there has been a mistake in
the count of the votes cast at such election for candidates for said
electors or representatives in congress, or either of them, at any voting
district in his town, may, within three days after such election, bring
his complaint to any judge of the supreme court of errors, in which
he shall set out in a proper form the claimed errors of the moderator,
or the claimed errors in the count, and such judge of the supreme
court shall forthwith order a hearing to be had upon said complaint,
upon a day not more than five nor less than three days from the making
of said order, and shall cause notice of not less than three nor more
than five days to be given to any candidate or candidates whose election
may be affected by the decision upon such hearing, and to any other
party or parties whom such judge shall deem proper parties thereto, of
the time and place for the hearing upon such complaint; and such judge,
together with two other judges of the supreme court to be designated
by the chief justice of said court, or, in case of his inability, by the
judge of the supreme court to whom such application is made, shall,
on the day fixed for said hearing, and without unnecessary delay, pro
ceed to hear the parties, and, if sufficient reason be shown, they may
order any ballot boxes to be opened and a recount of the ballots cast to
be made, and they shall thereupon, in case they, or any two of them,
find any error in the rulings of the moderator or any mistake in the
count of the said votes, certify the result of their finding or decision, or
the finding or decision of a majority of them, to the secretary of state
before the Monday before the last Wednesday of the month in which
such elections are held; and such certificate of said judges, or a ma
jority of them, shall be final and conclusive upon all questions re
lating to the rulings of said moderators, and to the correctness of said
count, and shall operate to correct the returns of such moderators or
presiding officers, so as to conform to such finding or decision.

§ 481. Court docket; order in which cases are to be entered.
The clerk of the superior court for Hartford county shall keep a docket
upon which all causes to be heard by the supreme court of errors in the
first judicial district shall be entered in the following order: first, those
from Litchfield county; second, those from Windham county; third,
those from Middlesex county ; fourth, those from Tolland county ; fifth,
those from Hartford county; sixth, appeals transferred by consent from
other judicial districts. Assignments by days of causes upon such
docket shall be made by said court, as it may see fit. The clerk of the
superior court for New Haven county shall keep a docket upon which all
appeals to be heard by the supreme court of errors in New Haven shall
be entered in the* following order: first, appeals from Fairfield county;
second, appeals from New Haven county. The clerk of the superior
court for Fairfield county shall keep a docket upon which all appeals to
be heard by the supreme court of errors in Bridgeport shall be entered
in the following order: first, appeals from New Haven county; second,
appeals from Fairfield county.

§ 482. Causes Where tried. Every cause brought to said court
shall be tried in the judicial district in which it was originally entered
and tried or where the judgment complained of was rendered, unless the
parties agree in writing to try it in some other judicial district.
§ 483. Trial in other district by agreement. When the parties
in any cause pending before said court, or their attorneys, shall sign and
file an agreement with the clerk of the court of the county in which it is
pending, that said cause may be tried by said court during its session in
some other judicial district or county, it may be tried there; and the de
cision, being by the chief justice or presiding judge certified to such
clerk, he shall enter up judgment as if it had been tried and decided in
the judicial district in which said county is situated, or in the county in
which such cause is pending.
SEC. 95. Continuance when record
not printed two weeks before term opens. The records in any case
pending before the supreme court of errors shall be printed and delivered
to the respective attorneys of record in such case at least two weeks before
the opening of the term of said court in the judicial district in which
said case is to be heard ; and if said record shall not have been so printed
and delivered, said case shall, upon the written request of either party
thereto, be continued to the next term of said court to be held in said
judicial district.
§ 484. Quorum; judges Called in. Any three of the judges of
said court shall constitute a quorum. When more than two of the judges
shall be disqualified, or disabled, or decline to act in any matter before
said court, the remaining judges may call to their assistance such of the
judges of the superior court as may be necessary to constitute a quorum,
who shall constitute the court for the trial of such matter ; and when all
the judges of the supreme court of errors shall be disqualified or disabled,
or shall decline to try any cause pending before it, the same may be
tried by any three judges of the superior court, who shall constitute the
court for its trial, and shall be designated by the chief justice, or pre
siding judge of the supreme court of errors, who shall order the time for
the convening of said judges; and the clerk of the court before which
said cause may be pending shall notify such judges thereof; but no
judge shall sit to revise a decision which he has made on the circuit.

§ 487. Parties entitled to be heard by a full court. The
parties, respectively, shall in all cases have a right to be heard by a full
court; and if any judge is absent and such right is claimed, or if any
judge is disqualified and the absence or disqualification is not waived, the
chief justice, or, in case of his absence or disqualification, the senior judge
present and qualified, may summon one or more of the judges of the
superior court to constitute a full court, who shall attend and act as
judges of the Bupreme court of errors for the time being.
§ 488. Judgment by agreement of parties. When the parties
in any cause pending before said court, or their attorneys, shall sign
and file with the clerk an agreement as to the judgment which shall be
rendered therein, he may enter up judgment in said cause upon the
written order of the chief justice or presiding judge of said court.

§ 532. Administration of legal and equitable rights. All
courts which are vested with jurisdiction both in law and in equity may,
to the full extent of their respective jurisdictions, administer legal and
equitable rights and apply legal and equitable remedies, in favor of
either party, in one and the same suit, so that legal and equitable rights
of the parties may be enforced and protected in one action ; but wherever
there is any variance between the rules of equity and the rules of the
common law, in reference to the same matter, the rules of equity shall
prevail.

§ 546. Property subject to two or more mortgages. In case
of two or more mortgages or liens between the same parties, actions

thereon may be brought to the superior court when the amount of the
debt or liability secured by the larger of such mortgages or liens, as
therein described, shall be sufficient to bring it within the jurisdiction
of said court.

§ 550. Transfer Of jury Causes. The judge holding the superior
court or court of common pleas in any county may, if in his opinion the
c$lise of justice requires it, upon motion, order any civil cause which has
been put to the jury, pending in said court, to be transferred to the same
court in any other county ; and thereupon the clerk of the court in which
such action is pending, shall transmit to the clerk of the court to which
such cause is transferred, the original files and papers in said cause,
with a certificate of such transfer, who shall enter said cause in the
docket of said court to which it is so transferred; and said cause shall
thereafter be proceeded with in the same manner as if it were originally
brought to such court; nor shall any attachment, bond, recognizance or
other security, or obligation, be affected by such transfer; but all per
sons bound to appear in said cause shall be held to appear before the
court to which it is transferred, as if said obligation were so originally
made; and the judge ordering such transfer may, if he think fit, require
additional bonds for appearance before said court.

§ 552. Former Jurisdiction of General Assembly. The
superior court shall have exclusive jurisdiction of all matters relating to
the sale of lands, wherein the General Assembly has heretofore exercised
jurisdiction, when by reason of the condition of the parties in interest or
the limitations of any will or deed, no person or persons can convey a
legal title to such land, and said court may make all lawful orders or
decrees necessary to the full exercise of such jurisdiction.
§ 553. Protection of unrepresented interests. Whenever in
proceedings under § 552 all the parties whose interest may be affected
thereby are not represented by counsel, or for other satisfactory reasons,
the court may direct the state's attorney for the county in which said
action is pending to appear, to investigate the allegations of the com
plaint, and to do all things necessary and proper to protect all interests
not actually represented in court by counsel, and shall tax the necessary
expenses incurred under the direction of the court by said attorney as
a part of the costs of said action, to be paid by the parties thereto as the
court shall direct.
§ 554. Orders to be recorded in land records. All such orders
and decrees shall be recorded in the land records of the town in which
any land affected thereby is situate, and a certificate signed by the town
clerk that such record has been made shall be returned to the superior
court and become a part of the record in such action.
§ 555. Courts of equity may pass title to real estate. Courts
of equitable jurisdiction may pass the title to real estate by decree,
without any act on the part of the defendant, when, in their judgment,
it shall be the proper mode to carry the decree into effect; and such
decree, having been recorded in the records of lands in the town where
such real estate is situated, shall, while in force, be as effectual to trans
fer the same as the deed of the defendant.

§ 557. Distinct claims; separate counts; jurisdiction. When
ever any person owns two or more claims founded on contract, express
or implied, against another, or other persons jointly, and each of said
claims is founded upon or evidenced by separate and distinct contracts,
the person so owning said claims may sue for them in separate counts
in his complaint, and all courts whose jurisdiction is limited by the
amount in controversy or in demand may render judgment for the
amount found due on each count, and the interest thereon; provided.
the judgment on any count shall not, without such interest, exceed the
jurisdiction of said court; and all judgments so rendered in favor of the
plaintifff shall state upon which of such counts such judgment was
rendered.

§ 558. Several claims; jurisdiction of inferior courts. When
ever the sum total of claims described in § 557 exceeds one hundred
dollars and does not exceed the jurisdiction of the court of common
pleas, suit may be brought therefore and recovery had thereon in the
court of common pleas or in the district court of Waterbury.

§ 559. Limited jurisdiction; judgment above limit. In all civil
actions founded on contract, express or implied, all courts whose juris
diction is limited by the amount in controversy may render judgment
for interest accruing after the commencement of the suit, in addition to
the amount to which their jurisdiction would be otherwise limited,
although such judgment may exceed the amount demanded by the
plaintifff in his writ.

§ 563. Civil process when to be served. Civil process, if
returnable to the supreme court ot errors, shall be served at least thirty
days inclusive before the day of the sitting of the court; if returnable
to the superior court, court of common pleas, or district court of Waterbury,
at least twelve days inclusive before said day; and if returnable
to a justice of the peace, at least six days inclusive before said day.
Process in actions brought to the court of common pleas in New Haven
county in which the defendant or defendants reside in the town of New
Haven, may be served at least six days inclusive before the return day.
§ 564. Process to be returned When. Process in civil actions
returnable to the supreme court of errors shall be returned to its clerk
at least twenty days before the return day ; if returnable to the superior
court, to its clerk at least six days before the return day; if returnable
to the court of common pleas or to the district court of Waterbury, to
the clerk of such court at least forty-eight hours before the return day;
' and if returnable to a justice of the peace, to such justice at least
twenty-four hours before the hour designated in the writ for the opening
of his court.

§ 565. Process returnable to justice void when. All civil
process returnable to a justice of the peace which is not made returnable
within thirty days from and after the day of its service, shall be void.
§ 566. Return days in superior, common pleas, and district
COUrtS. Process in civil actions, including transfers, applications for
relief, and removals, if brought to the court of common pleas in New
Haven county, or to the district court of Waterbury, shall be made re
turnable on the first Tuesday of any month ; if brought to the superior
court, or to the court of common pleas in any other county than New
Haven, on the first Tuesday of any month except July and August; and
all process shall be made returnable to the next return day, or to the
next but one, to which it can be made returnable; but it shall not be
necessary to designate in the process the term of such court, or, except in
the county of New Haven, the place where it is to be held.

SEC. 185. Omission to state term
or place of court.
Sec. 2. No process in civil actions, including transfers, applications
for relief, and removals, made returnable to the superior court on the
first Tuesday of any month to which process can by law be made return
able, shall be abated because the term of the court, or the place where
the same is to be held, has not been stated in the process.
Sec. 3. This act shall take effect from its passage, and shall affect
all pending actions.

§ 567. Appeals from justices and inferior courts, when return
able. Appeals from judgments of justices of the peace, and from
other inferior tribunals, shall be taken to the return day of the appellate
court next after their allowance; but nothing contained in this section
or in § 566 shall be construed to change the time which may be expressly
prescribed by statute in any particular case for taking an appeal.

§ 568. Process hOW tO be directed. All process shall be directed
to the sheriff, his deputy, a constable, or other proper officer, or to some
indifferent person; but no process shall be directed to an indifferent
person unless more defendants than one are therein named, and described
to be of different counties in the state, or unless, in case of a writ of
attachment, the plaintifff, or one of the plaintifffs, if there be more than
one, or his or their agent or attorney, shall make oath before the
authority signing such writ that the affiant verily believes the plaintifff
is in danger of losing his debt or demand, unless an indifferent person
be deputed for the immediate service of the writ or other process; said
authority shall certify on the writ that he administered such oath, and
insert in the writ the name of the person to whom it is directed, but
he need not insert the reason of such direction. Any process directed to
an indifferent person in consequence of such an affidavit shall be abat
able on proof that the party making such affidavit had not reasonable
grounds, at the time of making it, for believing the s£. tements therein
to be true.

§ 569. Sheriff may make special deputation. The sheriff may,
on any special occasion, depute, in writing on the back of the process,
any proper person to serve it, who, after serving it, shall make oath
before a justice of the peace that he faithfully served it according to
his indorsement thereon, and did not fill up said process nor direct
any person to fill it up; and, such justice of the peace having certified
on the process that he administered said oath, the service shall be valid.

§ 570. Service of summons how made. The service of a writ
of summons shall be made by the officer reading it and the complaint ac
companying it, in the hearing of the defendant, or by leaving an attested
copy thereof with him or at the place of his usual abode.

§ 571. Process how served: service on corporations. Except
as otherwise provided, process in civil actions shall be served by leaving
a true and attested copy of it, including the declaration or complaint,
with the defendant, or at his usual place of abode, in this state. Process
in civil actions against the following described classes of defendants shall
be served as follows : in actions against a county, upon one of the county
commissioners; against a town, upon its clerk or one of its selectmen;
against a city, upon its clerk, assistant clerk, or upon its mayor; against
a borough, upon its clerk, or upon the warden or one of its burgesses;
against a school district, upon its clerk or one of its committee; against
other municipal or guasi-municipal corporations, upon its clerk, or upon
its chief presiding officer or managing agent. In actions against private
corporations, service shall be made either upon the president, the vicepresident,
the secretary, the assistant secretary, the treasurer, the as
sistant treasurer, the cashier, the assistant cashier, the teller, the as
sistant teller, or its general or managing agent, or upon any director
resident in this state. In case none of such officers or directors can be
found, service may be made upon the person in charge of the business of
the corporation, or upon any person who is, at the time of service, in
charge of the office of the corporation in the town in which its princi
pal office or place of business is located. In actions against private
corporations established under the laws of the United States or of any
other state or foreign country, service may be made upon any of the
aforesaid officers or agents, or upon the resident attorney of such cor
poration appointed pursuant to § 3931.

§ 572. Service of process by advertisement or otherwise.
If any corporation organized under the laws of this state shall have no
officer or agent upon whom process against it can be served, any judge,
clerk, or assistant clerk, of the superior court, court of common pleas,
or the district court of Waterbury, to which any action against said
corporation is brought, may authorize service of process in said action
upon said corporation by advertisement, or may make such other or
further order concerning such service of process as may be deemed
reasonable, and service made in accordance with such order shall be
deemed sufficient service of process upon said corporation.

§ 573. Service of process upon voluntary associations. In
actions against voluntary associations service of process may be made
upon the presiding officer, secretary, or treasurer.
§ 574. Process how served on nonresident executors. Process
in civil actions against nonresident executors or administrators, in their
representative capacity, may be served by leaving a true and attested
copy thereof with or at the office or the usual place of abode of the
judge of probate in the district where the estate is in settlement; and
such judge shall forthwith give notice thereof to such executor or
administrator.
§ 575. Service on nonresident in cases of quo warranto. An
information in the nature of quo warranto brought against a nonresident
usurping any office in a corporation organized under the laws of this
state may be served upon said nonresident by leaving a copy with the
secretary of said corporation if he resides in this state, and, if not, then
with the treasurer or assistant treasurer of said corporation, and in case
no such officer resides within this state, then service thereof may be
made upon the attorney-general of this state; and any such service shall
be service upon such nonresident defendant and shall be sufficient notice
to the defendant, if he is not a resident of this state, to enable the relator
to bring said action to trial.
§ 576. Borough bailiffs may execute process where. Borough
bailiffs may, within their respective boroughs, execute all legal process
which sheriffs or constables can execute.

§ 577. Service of process in actions on joint contracts, in
actions on joint contracts, the service of the process upon such of the de
fendants as are inhabitants of this state shall be sufficient notice to
maintain the suit against all the defendants.

§ 578. Service of process; orders of notice. The several
courts, other than courts of probate, and the judges, clerks, and assist
ant clerks thereof, or any county commissioner, in term time or in
vacation, may, except where it is otherwise specially provided by law,
make such order as may be deemed reasonable, in regard to the notice
which shall be given of the institution or pendency of all complaints,
writs of error, and appeals from probate, which may be brought to or
pending in any court, when the adverse party or any persons so interested
therein that they ought to be made parties thereto, reside out of the state,
or when the names or residences of any such persons in interest are un
known to the party instituting the proceeding; and such notice, having
been given and proved, shall be deemed sufficient service and notice;
and the court may proceed to a hearing at the first term, or session,
unless otherwise provided by law, or may order further notice as it may
deem reasonable.
§ 579. Notice to " representatives and creditors." The
plaintifff in any action for equitable relief, to which it would be neces
sary to make the executor or administrator of a deceased person, if any,
a party, and there be no such executor or administrator, may, if he sets
forth in his complaint the interest of such deceased person, make his
" representatives and creditors," without further or other designation or
description, parties to such action ; or where an action for equitable relief
is brought relating to any interest in real estate belonging to or which
may be claimed by the widow or heirs of any deceased person, and the
plaintifff or his attorney shall annex to the complaint in such action an
affidavit stating that the plaintifff does not know who such widow or
heirs, or some of them, are, or where they or any of them reside, and
shall in the process to such action describe as parties defendant "the
widow and heirs," or, as the case may be, " the heirs," of such deceased
person, without further describing the names or residences of any such
parties whose names and residences may be unknown to him, the court
to which such action shall be brought, or any judge thereof in vacation,
may make such order relative to the notice which shall be given as shall
be, by such court or judge, deemed reasonable; and such notice having
been given according to the order and duly proved, the court may proceed
to a hearing of the cause at the first term or session, or afterwards, as
it shall judge proper; and any executor or administrator who may be
appointed or qualified pending such proceedings, or any other person
claiming as widow or heir of such deceased person, may appear and defend
in such action; and all creditors and representatives of such deceased
person shall be forever concluded by the judgment or decree rendered
therein.
§ 580. Completion of service by another officer allowable
When. If an officer, to whom any process is directed, dies or is removed
from office, after he has commenced to serve it but before completing such
service, any other proper officer may complete the same. If the term of
office of any officer to whom any process is directed and who has com
menced to serve it, expires before the completion of such service, he may
nevertheless proceed to complete such service in the same manner and
with the same effect as if he still remained in office.
§ 581. Service of process out of officer's precincts. When
any officer shall have commenced the service of any civil process within
his precincts, he may attach the property of, or serve said process upon,
any defendant therein named without his precincts; but no officer shall
be deemed to have commenced service in any civil action brought by
process of foreign attachment, by service on the garnishee therein, unless
the garnishee has concealed in his hands, at the time of such service, the
goods or effects of the defendant, or is indebted to him.

§ 582. Service of process; penalty for exacting illegal fees.
Every officer serving any process shall indorse thereon the items of his
fees, with the number of miles traveled by him; and if any officer shall
demand and receive on any civil process more than his legal fees, he shall
pay threefold the amount of all the fees demanded, to the defendant
in the action in which the illegal fees were exacted, if such fees have been
paid by him, otherwise to the plaintifff in such action. The provisions of
this section shall not apply to any case in which the fees claimed to be
illegal have been taxed and allowed by the proper authority.

§ 583. Service by officer before giving bond. Any process in
any civil action which is served by any officer before he shall have given
the bond required by law, shall abate.
§ 584. Process void if served on Sunday. All civil process,
except complaints for injunctions and orders thereon, issued or served
between sunrise and sunset on Sunday, shall be void.

§ 585. Municipal corporations may sue and be sued.
Counties, towns, societies, communities, and corporations, may prosecute
and defend civil actions, and may appoint agents to appear in their
behalf, and employ attorneys in such actions.

§ 586. Action On foreign probate bond. Any bond entered into
in accordance with the laws of any other state of the United States, con
ditioned for the proper performance by any person or persons of the
duties of executor, administrator, guardian, or trustee, to the acceptance
of the court having jurisdiction, may be enforced, in case of breach,
against any obligors therein, resident within this state, by an action
in the name of the person or persons who would be entitled to sue thereon
in the proper courts of such other state ; and all such suits, in respect to
the security for the costs by indorsement, and the effect of the judgments
rendered in the same, shall be governed by the provisions concerning
actions on probate bonds contained in § 630 and 717.
§ 587. Assumption of mortgage; suit by mortgagee. When
ever any real estate encumbered by mortgage or lien shall be conveyed,
subject to such mortgage or lien, and in such conveyance there shall be a
provision that the grantee shall assume and pay such encumbrance, the
holder of such mortgage or lien may, upon the nonpayment of the same,
maintain an action in his own name upon such promise, without obtain
ing an assignment thereof from the grantor of said premises.

§ 588. Actions by and against voluntary associations. Any
number of persons associated together as a voluntary association, not
having corporate powers, but known by some distinguishing name, may
sue and be sued, and plead and be impleaded by such name; and suits
may be so brought against such associations by any individual member
thereof, and such associations may bring suits against individual mem
bers.
§ 589. Actions by joint tenants; effect of nonjoinder. Any
joint tenant or tenant in common of land may maintain an action in his
own name for any injury thereto; but the nonjoinder of the other tenants
may be shown by the defendant in reduction of damages, and the plain
tiff shall only recover for the damage to his interest.

§ 590. Joint contractors; death; survival, in aiTcases where
any joint contractor, other than a partner, shall have died, the executor
or administrator of such decedent may be joined with the surviving
contractor or contractors as a joint plaintifff, in any action upon any
joint contract of said decedent and said survivor or survivors, and as
a joint defendant where the estate of such decedent is not in settle
ment as an insolvent estate ; but in case the estate of such decedent shall
afterwards be represented insolvent, such insolvency may be suggested
on the record, and thereupon said action, in respect to such defendant,
shall be discontinued. Any judgment against such executor or adminis
trator shall run against the estate of such decedent only, and in the
same manner as if he were sued alone; provided, that nothing herein
shall operate to extend the time limited by the court of probate for the
presentation of claims against the estate of such decedent.
§ 591. Actions against married Women. Actions may be sus
tained against a married woman, upon any causes of action which ac
crued before her marriage, and upon any contract made by her since her
marriage upon her personal credit, for the benefit of herself, her family,
or her separate or joint estate, and for any tort committed by her with
out the actual coercion of her husband, and her property attached and
taken on execution in the same manner as if she were unmarried ; and
her husband shall not be liable upon any of said causes of action.

§ 592.. Actions on contracts of husband and wife. when a
married woman shall enter into a contract jointly with her husband for
the benefit of her estate, or their joint estate, they may be jointly sued
upon the same, and her property attached or taken on execution, in the
same manner as if she were unmarried.

§ 593. Actions by a married woman in business. When a
married woman shall carry on any business, and any right of action
shall accrue to her therefrom, she may sue upon the same as if she were
unmarried.

§ 594. Joinder of husband and wife; costs, in any civil action
by or against a married woman, her husband may be joined with her,
as a coplaintifff or codefendant, as the case may be ; and when so joined,
if a cause of action is found to exist in favor of or against one of them
only, a judgment or decree shall be rendered accordingly; and in such
cases no costs shall be taxed for such husband or wife in favor of whom
no cause of action is found, nor against Buch husband or wife against
whom no cause of action is found.

§ 595. Nonsuits and withdrawals; costs, if the plaintifff, in
any action returned to court and entered in the docket, shall not, on or
before the opening of the court on the second day thereof, appear by
himself or attorney, to prosecute the action, he shall be nonsuited; and
he may become nonsuit before the jury have given in their verdict; in
either of which cases the defendant, if he shall appear, shall recover
costs from the plaintifff. The plaintifff may withdraw any action so re
turned to and entered in the docket of any court, before the jury have
given in their verdict.

§ 596. Costs when taxed on withdrawal. Upon the with
drawal of any civil action after it has been returned to court and en
tered upon the docket, and after an appearance has been entered for the
defendant, a judgment for costs, if claimed by him, shall be rendered
in his favor, but not otherwise; but such judgment shall not be rendered
after the expiration of six months from the date of such withdrawal;
?nd no costs shall be allowed which accrued after actual notice in writing
of the withdrawal was given by the plaintifff to the defendant or his at
torney, unless good reason therefore shall be shown to the court.

§ 597. Withdrawal in vacation or before return day. The
plaintifff in any civil action returnable to the superior court, court of
common pleas, or district court of Waterbury, and returned to its clerk
or to his office, may withdraw it in vacation or at any time before the
day on which the action is made returnable, by filing in such office a
written notice of the withdrawal signed by himself or his attorney,
specifying the action withdrawn and the time of withdrawal. The clerk
shall enter such action on the docket of the court, at or before its next
return day, with a note of the withdrawal, and of its date.

§ 598. Plaintiff's appearance by attorney sufficient, in all
actions brought by one who is not an inhabitant of this state, the clerk
of the court shall enter in the record of the cause the name of the at
torney by whom such plaintifff appeared, which record shall be evidence
that such attorney was the lawful attorney of the plaintifff.

§ 599. When judgment by default may be rendered. When
any process is duly served on any defendant and returned to court, if
he do not appear on or before the second day of its session, judgment
by default may be rendered against him.

§ 600. Garnishee may assign case for trial, when. When in
an action commenced by process of foreign attachment and brought to
or pending in the superior court, court of common pleas, or district
court of Waterbury, the defendant shall not appear, if the plaintifff shall
not take a default in said action within four months after the day on
which the process is returnable to said court, the court may at any time
thereafter, upon the motion of any garnishee in said action, assign the
same for trial.
§ 601. Creditor may appear and defend, when, in any action
where property has been attached, any person may appear and defend
in the name of the defendant, upon filing in the court an affidavit that
he is a creditor of the defendant, and has good reason to believe, and does
believe, that the amount, which the plaintifff claims, was not justly due
at the commencement of the suit, and that he is in danger of being de
frauded by a recovery by the plaintifff, and upon giving bond, with
surety, to the plaintifff, in such amount as the court shall approve, for the
payment of such costs as the plaintifff may thereafter recover ; and if the
plaintifff shall recover his whole claim, costs shall be taxed against the
defendant to the time of the appearance of such creditor, and for the resi
due of the costs, such creditor shall be liable upon his bond ; if only a part
of the plaintifff's claim shall be recovered, the whole costs shall be taxed
against the defendant, and the creditor shall not be liable for the same ;
if judgment shall be rendered in favor of the defendant, costs shall be
taxed in his favor against the plaintifff, but the court may order that the
judgment and execution therefore shall belong to such creditor. No
creditor so appearing shall be permitted to plead in abatement, nor to
plead or give in evidence the statute of limitations, nor that the contract
was not in writing, according to the requirements of the statute, nor any
other statutory defense consistent with the justice of the plaintifff's
claim.

§ 602. Continuance on account of absent or nonresident
defendant. Every civil action in which the defendant is an inhabitant
of this state but is absent therefrom at the commencement of the suit
and continues to be absent until after the return day, without having
entered any appearance therein, shall be continued or postponed for
thirty days by order of the court; and if the defendant does not then
appear and no special reason be shown for further delay, judgment by
default may be rendered against him. If the defendant is not an in
habitant or resident of this state at the commencement of the action and
does not appear arid answer thereto, the court shall continue or postpone
it for a period of three months, and shall direct notice of the pendency
of the action to be given to the defendant by publication in some news
paper, or otherwise, as may be deemed expedient; and if upon the ex
piration of said three months the defendant shall not appear and it
seems probable to the court that he has not received notice of the pen
dency of the action, the court shall again continue or postpone the cause
for a further period of one month ; and if the defendant does not then ap
pear and no special reason be shown for further delay, judgment may berendered
against him on default; hut when judgment shall be rendered
against him on default after such continuances or postponements, ex
ecution shall not issue thereon until the plaintifff shall have lodged with
the clerk of the court a bond to the adverse party, with one or more
sufficient sureties, in double the amount of such judgment, to refund
the whole or such part of it as the court, upon a writ of error or petition
for a new trial, to be brought within one year after such judgment, shall
adjudge that the plaintifff had no right to recover; and no real estate,
taken by an execution granted on such judgment by default, shall be
aliened or conveyed until the expiration of twelve months from the
rendition of such judgment, or until after a decision in favor of the
original plaintifff, upon a writ of error or petition for a new trial brought
within said year.

§ 603. Defense by garnishee; continuance of action, in all
actions by foreign attachment, if the defendant does not appear, any
garnishee may be admitted to defend his principal ; but if the defendant
is not in this state, and does not appear, personally or by attorney, and
the garnishee docs not appear to defend, the action shall be continued,
postponed, or adjourned, for a period of three months from the return
day of the writ, unless the court shall find that the defendant or his
duly authorized agent or attorney has had actual notice of the pendency
of the case twelve days before the return day thereof.

§ 604. Continuance to terminate on receipt of actual notice.
All continuances, postponements, or adjournments, prescribed in § 602
and 603, shall terminate whenever the court shall find that the absent
or nonresident defendant, or his duly authorized agent or attorney, has
received actual notice of the pendency of the case at least twelve days
prior to such finding, and thereupon, unless some special reason be
shown for further delay, the cause may be brought to trial; and in such
case the plaintifff shall not be required to give the bond prescribed by
§ 602, nor shall the restriction in said section with respect to the aliena
tion of real estate taken by the plaintifff on execution apply.

§ 605. Mesne process; contents and signature. Mesne process
in civil actions shall be a writ of summons or attachment, describing
the parties, the court to which it is returnable, and the time and place
of appearance, and shall be accompanied by the plaintifff's complaint.
All such writs shall be signed by a justice of the peace, commissioner of
the superior court, or a judge or clerk of the court to which it is re
turnable, and may run into any county.

§ 606. Form Of mesne process. The forms of mesne process
in civil actions may be as follows:
Summons for appearance before a justice of the peace.
To the sheriff of the county of H., his deputy, or either con
stable of the town of G., in said county, greeting:
By authority of the state of Connecticut, you are hereby com
manded to summon A. B. of to appear before J. EL,
Esquire, justice of the peace for the county of at
in on the day of
19 —, at o'clock in the noon, then and there to
answer unto C. D. of in a civil action, wherein the
plaintifff complains and says:
The plaintifff claims $ damages.
I, J. W., the subscribing authority, hereby certify that I have
personal knowledge as to the financial responsibility of the plaintifff,
and deem it sufficient; or, E. F. of is recognized in
$ to prosecute, etc.
Of this writ with your doings thereon make due return.
Dated at the '. day of A. D.
19—.
J. W., Justice of the Peace.
Writ of attachment before a justice of the peace.
To the sheriff, etc. (as before) :
By authority of the state of Connecticut, you are hereby com
manded to attach to the value of dollars the goods or
estate of A. B. of and him summon to appear before
J. H., Esquire, justice of the peace for the county of —
at in said county, on the day
of , A. D. 19—, at o'clock in the
noon, then and there to answer to C. D. of in a civil
action, wherein the plaintifff complains and says:
The plaintifff claims $ damages.

§ 607. Pleadings; contents of complaint; plea in abatement.
There shall be but one form of civil action, and the pleadings therein
shall be as follows: The first pleading on the part of the plaintifff
shall be known as the complaint, and shall contain a statement of the
facts constituting the cause of action, and a demand for the relief to
which he supposes himself to be entitled. If the defendant desires to
plead to the jurisdiction, or in abatement, or both, he shall take such
exceptions in one plea, substantially in the following form :
The defendant pleads in abatement, because [Here state all
the particular exceptions to the jurisdiction, and causes of abate
ment, and how the plaintifff might, or should, have brought his
action in order to avoid them, if they are such as could have been
avoided]. And thereforee he prays judgment. By A. B., his at
torney.
All defenses, other than those to the jurisdiction or in abatement,
shall be made by an answer, or by a demurrer.

§ 608. Demurrers must be Special. All demurrers shall dis
tinctly specify the reasons why the pleading demurred to is insufficient.

§ 609. Answer; general and special denial. The defendant in
his answer shall specially deny such allegations of the complaint as
he intends to controvert, admitting the truth of the other allegations,
unless he intends, in good faith, to controvert all the allegations, in
which case he may deny them generally, as follows:
The defendant denies the truth of the matters contained in the
plaintifff's complaint.
He may also, in his answer, state special matters of defense, and
shall not give in evidence matter in avoidance, or of defense, consistent
with the truth of the material allegations of the complaint, unless in his
answer he states such matter specially. Under a general denial the
plaintifff shall be bound to prove the material facts alleged in the com
plaint. If the defendant intends to controvert the right of the plaintifff
to sue as executor, or as trustee, or in any other representative capacity,
or as a corporation, or to controvert the execution or delivery of any
written instrument or recognizance sued upon, he shall deny the same
in his answer specifically.

§ 610. Plaintiff's reply to answer; general and special denial.
The plaintifff may demur or reply to the answer and, in such reply, he
may admit some and deny other of the allegations; or by a general
denial of the defendant's answer, where the answer is special, put the
defendant upon proof of all the material facts in the answer alleged;
but, under such general denial, he may not give in evidence any mat
ter in avoidance, unless it be specially replied. Further pleadings, sub
sequent in their nature, may be had, if necessary, by leave of the court.
§ 611. Pleading over after demurrer overruled, in all civil
actions, upon the overruling of a demurrer, the party may plead over.

§ 612. Counterclaim and set-off how pleaded, in cases where
the defendant has either in law or in equity, or in both, a counterclaim,
or right of set-off, against the plaintifff's demand, he may have the benefit
of any such set-offs or counterclaims by pleading the same, as such, in
his answer, and demanding judgment accordingly; and the same shall
be pleaded and replied to, according to the rules governing complaints
and answers; provided that no counterclaim, set-off, or defense, merely
equitable, shall be available in actions before justices of the peace.

§ 613. Union of legal and equitable causes of action; limita
tion. In every civil action, not brought before a justice of the peace,
the plaintifff may include in his complaint both legal and equitable rights
and causes of action, and demand both legal and equitable remedies ; but
where several causes of action are united in the same complaint they must all be brought to recover, either (1) upon contract, express or implied,
or (2) for injuries, with or without force, to person and property, or
either, including a conversion of property to the defendant's use, or (3)
for injuries to character, or (4) upon claims to recover real property,
with or without damages for the withholding thereof, and the rents and
profits of the same, or (5) upon claims to recover personal property
specifically, with or without damages for the withholding thereof, or (6)
claims arising by virtue of a contract or by operation of law, in favor of
or against a party, in some representative or fiduciary capacity, or (7)
upon claims, whether in contract, or tort, or both, arising out of the same
transaction or transactions connected with the same subject of action.
The several causes of action so united must all belong to one of these
classes, and, except in actions for the foreclosure of mortgages or liens,
must affect all the parties to the action, and not require different places
of trial, and must be separately stated; and in all cases where several
causes of action are joined in the same complaint, or as matter of
counterclaim or set-off, in the answer, if it appear to the court that they
cannot all be conveniently heard together, the court may order separate
trials of any such causes of action, or may direct that any one or more of
them be expunged from the complaint or answer.

§ 614. Pleadings to allege the material facts in concise form.
All pleadings shall contain a plain and concise statement of the material
facts on which the pleader relies, but not of the evidence by which they
are to be proved ; such statement being divided into paragraphs numbered
consecutively, each containing, as nearly as may be, a separate allegation.
Where the pleadings do not fully disclose the ground of claim or defense,
the court may order fuller and more particular statements; and if,
in the .opinion of the court, the pleadings do not sufficiently define the
issues in dispute, it may direct the parties to prepare other issues, and"
such issues shall, if the parties differ, be settled by the court.

§ 615. Untrue allegations or denials; costs. Allegations or
denials made without reasonable cause and found untrue, shall subject
the party pleading the same to the payment of such reasonable expenses,
to be taxed by the court, as may have been necessarily incurred by the
other party by reason of such untrue pleading ; provided that no expenses
for counsel fees shall be taxed exceeding ten dollars for any one offense.

§ 616. Expunging or correcting prolix or uncertain pleading.
Unnecessary repetition, prolixity, scandal, impertinence, obscurity, or
uncertainty in any pleading, or the incorporation of irrelevant, im
material, or evidential matter, shall be ground for a motion to expunge or
otherwise correct such pleading. Such motions shall be in writing, shall
specify the particular exceptions, and the action of the court thereon
shall, upon appeal after final judgment, be reviewable by the supreme
court of errors.

§ 617. All persons interested to be joined as plaintifffs. All
persons having an interest in the subject of the action, and in obtaining
the judgment demanded, may be joined as plaintifffs, except as other
wise expressly provided; and if one who ought to be joined as plaintifff
declines to join, he may be made a defendant, the reason therefore being
stated in the complaint.

§ 618. Who may be made defendants. Any person may be
made a defendant who has or claims an interest in the controversy, or
any part thereof, adverse to the plaintifff, or whom it is necessary, for a
complete determination or settlement of any question involved therein,
to make a party.

§ 619. When parties are numerous one may represent all.
When the persons who might be made parties are very numerous, so
that it would be impracticable or unreasonably expensive to make them
all parties, one or more may sue or be sued or may be authorized by the
court to defend for the benefit of all.

§ 620. Trustee of express trust may sue or be sued alone.
An executor, administrator, or trustee of an express trust, may sue or be
sued, without joining the persons represented by him and beneficially
interested in the suit.

§ 621. Additional parties may be summoned in. The court
may determine the controversy as between the parties before it, where it
can do so without prejudice to the rights of others ; but where a complete
determination cannot be bad without the presence of other parties, the
court may direct them to be brought in. Where a person, not a party,
has an interest or title which the judgment will affect, the court, on his
application, shall direct him to be made a party.

§ 622. Nonjoinder and misjoinder of parties. No action shall
be defeated by the nonjoinder or misjoinder of parties. New parties
may be added and summoned in, and parties misjoined may be dropped,
by order of the court, at any stage of the cause, as it may deem the
interests of justice to require.

§ 623. Substituted plaintifff. When any action has been com
menced in the name of the wrong person as plaintifff, the court may, if
satisfied that it has been so commenced through mistake, and that it is
necessary for the determination of the real matter in dispute so to do,
allow any other person to be substituted or added as plaintifff.

§ 624. Counterclaim; third parties. When a counterclaim raises
questions affecting the interests of third parties, the defendant may, and
if required by the court shall, cause such parties to be summoned in as
parties to said suit.

§ 625. Effect Of Change Of parties. No change in parties, made
by order of court, shall impair any previous attachment of the estate or
body of any person remaining a defendant in the action, nor impair
bonds or recognizances of any person remaining a party, either as against
himself or his sureties, nor impair receipts to the officer for property at
tached ; and, when parties are changed, the court may order new bonds, if
such new bonds are deemed necessary. Orders of court concerning change
in parties may be upon terms, as to costs or otherwise, at the discretion of
the court.

§ 626. Names of partners; amendment, in mesne process by
or against a partnership, it shall not be necessary to insert the names
of the partners, provided the partnership name is stated ; and the plain
tiff shall have the right, within the first three days of the court to which

the process is returnable, to amend it, without costs, by inserting the
names of the partners; and writs returnable before a justice of the peace
may be amended in the same manner, at any time before the pleadings are
closed. No attachment in any civil action against a partnership, of the
private estate of any of its members, shall be valid, unless his name
shall be set forth in the process, at the time of the attachment.

§ 627. Common counts; bill of particulars. The form of com
plaint denominated " the common counts " in the rules under the practice
act, may be used for the commencement of an action in all cases where
any of these counts is a general statement of the cause of action; and
may also be used in the same complaint in connection with special counts,
whenever the said action is brought to recover for work and labor done,
when the contract is claimed to have been fully performed, for materials
furnished, goods sold and delivered, and for money had and received.
Before any default shall be entered, or judgment shall be rendered
thereon, the plaintifff shall furnish a bill of particulars of the item or
items of his claim, and, when filed in court, all paragraphs not appro
priate to said bill of particulars shall, by the filing thereof, be deemed to
be stricken out of the complaint.

§ 628. Pleading Charters. All acts of incorporation passed by
the general assembly may be declared on or pleaded as public acts.
§ 629. Action on bond to municipal officer. When any bond,
note, or other security is taken to any officer of a community or cor
poration in this state, wherein the beneficial interest belongs, or, on the
face of such security, appears to belong, to such community or corpora
tion, any action to recover or enforce the same may be maintained by
such community or corporation in its own corporate name.
§ 630. Actions On probate bonds. In all actions upon bonds
taken in a court of probate, the plaintifff shall aver in his complaint or
reply for whose special benefit the action is prosecuted, and how such
persons are interested in the same, and how the act or neglect of the
defendant has injured their rights or affected their interests; and the
judgment which shall be rendered in any such case shall not, in any
future proceedings, by scire facias or otherwise, bar or conclude the rights
of other persons interested in the bond.
§ 631. Action by assignee of chose in action. The assignee
and equitable and bona fide owner of any chose in action, not negotiable,
may sue thereon in his own name; but he shall, in his complaint, allege
that he is the actual, bona fide owner thereof, and set forth when and
how he acquired title thereto.

§ 632. Pleading; rules and orders of court. Parties failing to
plead according to the rules and orders of the court may be nonsuited or
defaulted, as the case may be.

§ 633. Procedure in certain actions not changed. Sections
532, 605, 606, 607, 609, 610, 612, 613, 640, 826 and 848, shall not
affect flowage petitions, or proceedings in bastardy, replevin, summary
process, habeas corpus, mandamus, prohibition, ne exeat, quo warranto,
forcible entry and detainer, peaceable entry and forcible detainer, or for
paying rewards.

§ 634. Circumstantial defects not to abate pleadings. No
writ, pleading, judgment, or any kind of proceeding in court or course
of justice, shall be abated, suspended, set aside, or reversed for any kind
of circumstantial errors, mistakes, or defects, if the person and the
cause may be rightly understood and intended by the court.

§ 635. Plea in abatement; issue of fact; answer over. Upon
the trial of any issue in fact joined upon a plea in abatement in a civil
action, the verdict or finding of the court shall not preclude the parties
from contesting the cause upon its merits ; and, if in favor of the plaintifff,
the defendant may answer over to the action, or plead any legal plea
which. he may deem necessary for his defense.

§ 636. Amendment after plea in abatement, if any plea in
abatement of any process be ruled in favor of the defendant, the plain
tiff may amend the defect on paying to the defendant his costs to that
time; and in case the defendant appeal from a judgment rendered by a
justice of the peace on a plea in abatement, and shall not make good
his plea by the judgment of the appellate court, he shall pay costs, and
execution shall issue against him for the same, although the cause shall
finally be decided in his favor.

§ 637. Marriage of feme sole plaintifff not to abate action.
No action commenced by a single woman shall abate on account of her
marriage, but the husband shall appear in court and cause such marriage
to be suggested on the record, and the action may then proceed in the
same manner as if the suit was commenced after such intermarriage.

§ 638. Process not to be drawn or filled up by officer. Every
process or complaint drawn or filled up by a sheriff, deputy-sheriff, or
constable, except in his own cause, shall abate; but no process shall
abate on account of any alteration thereof between the signing and the
service of the same.

§ 639. Amendpient of pleadings by plaintifff; costs. The
plaintifff may amend any defect, mistake, or informality in the writ,
complaint, declaration, or petition, and insert new counts in the com
plaint or declaration, which might have been originally inserted therein,
without costs, within the first thirty days of the court to which the action
is returnable, and at ariy time afterwards on the payment of costs at the
discretion of the court; but after any such amendment, the defendant
shall have a reasonable time to answer the same.

§ 640. Amendment of pleadings in appeals from justices, in
civil actions appealed from the judgment of a justice of the peace, either
party may, during the first term of the appellate court, amend his plead
ings by introducing any equitable right, cause of action, defense, set-off,
or counterclaim, as the case may be, and the same shall be considered in
determining the appeal, subject, however, to the rules as to joinder of
causes of action, prescribed in § 613.


§ 641. Amendment of defects, mistakes, or informalities.
Parties may amend any defect, mistake, or informality in the pleadings
or other parts of the record or proceedings. When either party shall
suppose that in any part of the pleadings he has missed the ground of
his plea, and that he can plead a different plea that will save him in his
cause, he may change his plea, answer, replication, or rejoinder, as the
case may be, and plead anew, and the other party shall have reasonable
time to answer the same ; and in all cases when a party amends or alters
any part of the pleadings or pleads anew, if it shall occasion any delay
in the trial, or inconvenience to the other party, he shall be liable to pay
costs at the discretion of the court. All courts may restrain the amend
ment and alteration of the pleadings, so far as may be necessary to
compel the parties to join issue in a reasonable time for trial.

§ 642. Amendment of claim against insolvent estate. in all
hearings before commissioners on estates of insolvent debtors or deceased
persons, or before the superior or other proper court on appeal from
the doings of such commissioners, the claimants shall have liberty to
amend any defect, mistake, or informality in the statement of the claim,
not changing the ground of action ; such amendment in the superior or
other court to be upon such terms as to costs as such court shall direct.

§ 643. Amendment of ad damnum clause. Whenever in any
civil action the claim for damages, or the value of the matter in de
mand, as alleged in the writ, shall by mistake be so stated that the court
to which the suit is brought has no jurisdiction of the cause, such court
may allow the writ to be amended as to such claim for damages, or
value, so as to bring the cause within the jurisdiction of the court;
provided, the writ might have been drawn originally as so amended.

§ 644. Amendment raising damages after appeal from justice.
The plaintifff in any action appealed from the judgment of a justice of
the peace, may amend his writ and complaint, after the entry of the
cause in the docket of the appellate court, by raising the damages al
leged or demanded to not over five hundred dollars.

§ 645. Amendment of pleadings after default; costs. The
plaintifff in any cause of action for unliquidated damages in which a
default shall have been entered, or in which a judgment shall have
been rendered upon a demurrer to the complaint overruled, may, at any
time before final judgment, amend his complaint on the payment of
costs, at the discretion of the court; but after any such amendment
the defendant shall have a reasonable time to file an answer to the same.
§ 646. Amendment from contract to tort and vice versa.
Complaints in actions brought for breach of contract may be amended
so as to set forth, instead, a cause of action founded on a tort, arising
from the same transaction or subject of action ; and complaints founded
on a tort may be amended so as to set forth, instead, a cause of action
for a breach of contract arising out of the same transaction or subject
of action.

§ 647. Amendment to correspond with facts proven, if, on
the trial, whether upon an issue of fact or of law, of a cause wherein
equitable relief is demanded, it appears that the plaintifff is not en
titled to such relief, but may be entitled to legal relief, the court may
allow the complaint to be amended so as to present a proper case for the
latter relief; and, in like manner, a complaint demanding legal relief
may be so amended as to entitle the plaintifff to equitable relief.

§ 648. Amendment calling for legal relief; jury trial, if any
complaint be so amended as to call for legal instead of equitable relief,
the court shall not proceed to judgment until the defendant has had a
reasonable opportunity to put the issue or issues, on which the new claim
for relief may be based, on the jury docket.
§ 649. Set-off of mutual debts; procedure. In all actions
brought for the recovery of a debt, if there shall be mutual debts be
tween the plaintifff or plaintifffs, or either of them, and the defendant or
defendants,' or either of them, one debt may be set off against the
other; but no debt claimed by assignment shall be set off, unless the
plaintifff had notice, at the commencement of the action, that such debt
was due to the defendant. If it shall appear upon the trial that the
plaintifff is indebted to the defendant, the court shall give judgment
for the defendant to recover the balance of the plaintifff, with his costs;
but no judgment shall be given against the plaintifff to recover the
balance of a debt due to only a part of the defendants, and no justice of
the peace shall give a judgment in favor of the defendant for any bal
ance which shall exceed one hundred dollars.

§ 650. Set-off by defendant in suit by assignee. in actions
brought by the assignee of a chose in action not negotiable, in his
own name, the defendant, or any of the defendants, may set off, in the
manner and to the extent provided in § 649, any mutual debt between
him and the plaintifff or any of the plaintifffs, or between him and the
assignors of such chose in action, or any of them.

§ 651. Set-off beyond jurisdiction; transfer to higher court.
If any answer shall be filed in any action pending before a justice of
the peace, district court of Waterbury, or court of common picas, wherein
the defendant claims judgment in his favor for a sum exceeding that
fixed as the highest pecuniary limit of the jurisdiction of the court, and
a sufficient bond with surety is offered by him, conditioned for the tran&
fer of said action as hereinafter provided, the court shall, without pro
ceeding further in said action, take such bond, and thereupon copies of
the files and record in said action shall be by the defendant transmitted
to the next district court, court of common pleas, or superior court, as
the case may be, to be held in the district or county which would have
original cognizance of an action brought to recover the demand claimed
in said answer; and said copies being entered on the docket of said
court to which they may be transmitted, the same shall operate as a
transfer of said action to said court, which shall thereupon have full
jurisdiction to hear and determine it, in the same manner as if it were
or might have been brought there by original process ; nor shall any bond,
attachment, or other security in favor of either party be impaired by such
transfer. If the defendant does not offer and furnish such bond, nor
withdraw said answer, he shall be deemed to waive any claim under
such answer for any greater sum than the court has jurisdiction to
award; and the court may thereupon proceed to take cognizance of the
claim set up in said answer as in other cases, and may render judgment
in his favor, if the same be established, for a sum not exceeding that
fixed as the highest pecuniary limit of its jurisdiction; and such judg
ment shall be a bar to any future claim by him against the plaintifff for
the whole or any part of the demand specified in said answer.
§ 652. Docketing of case in higher court; costs, if the defend
ant, having given such a bond, shall fail to enter the cause in the docket
of the court to which it is removable, within three days after the next
return day of such court, the plaintifff may within ten days after the
expiration of said three days enter it in such docket, and it shall be
proceeded with and disposed of in the same manner as if it had been
brought there by appeal ; and if the defendant, having removed the cause
as aforesaid, shall not recover final judgment for a greater sum than
that which might have been awarded him in the court from which said
action was removed, he shall not be entitled to costs, and, if final judg
ment shall be rendered against him, he shall be subjected to double costs.
§ 653. Set-Off in actions for tortS. In all actions in the nature
of trespass to property, real or personal, other than such as are brought
for damages for taking property exempt from execution, and in all
actions for any tort unaccompanied with force and where the injury is
consequential, if judgment be rendered for the plaintifff, the defendant
or defendants may set off against such judgment any debt which he or
they may hold, either jointly or severally, against the plaintifff; which
right of set-off shall not be affected by any assignment of such judgment
by the plaintifff, but such assignment shall be taken subject to such right
of set-off; but no debts which the defendant or defendants shall have
acquired, by purchase or assignment after the accruing of the cause of
action upon which such judgment shall be rendered, shall be allowed as
a set-off under this section.

§ 654. Set-off in cases of tort; procedure. in all such cases,
the defendant or defendants shall file a complaint in the court where
such judgment shall be rendered, within twenty-four hours after final
judgment and before the rising of the court, claiming such set-off ; and
if such debts, so held by the defendant or defendants, are admitted by
the plaintifff, or are evidenced by judgment, said court shall thereupon
proceed forthwith to make such set-off; but if the debts so held by the
defendant or defendants, and claimed to be set off, are denied by the
plaintifff, such set-off shall not be alfowed. unless the defendant or de
fendants shall have instituted a suit or suits therefore previous to the
rendition of judgment in favor of the plaintifff, and in case such suit
or suits shall, at the time of the rendition of such judgment, be pending
in any of the courts of this state, the court rendering such judgment
shall stay execution thereon until the final termination of such suit or
suits, when, if the defendant or defendants shall recover judgment there
in, such judgment or judgments shall be set off against the judg
ment recovered as aforesaid by the plaintifff; but no set-off shall be al
lowed in cases where the defendant has the right of set-off on the trial
of the case.

§ 655. Joint debtors; discharge; set-off. a discharge to one
of several joint debtors, purporting to discharge him only, shall not
affect the claim of the creditor against the other joint debtors, but they
may be sued for the same, and may set off any demand which could
have been set off had such suit been brought against all the original joint
debtors.

§ 675. Subpoena how signed; delinquent witness fined;
Capias. Subpcenas for witnesses shall be signed by the clerk of the
court, a justice of the peace, or commissioner of the superior court, and
shall be served by an officer or indifferent person; and if any person
upon whom a subpoena shall be served to appear and testify in a cause
pending before any court, and to whom one day's attendance and fees
for traveling to court have been tendered, shall fail to appear and testify,
without reasonable excuse, he shall be fined five dollars and pay all
damages to the party aggrieved; and the court, on due proof of the
service of the subpoena and the tender of said fees, may issue a capias
directed to some proper officer to arrest such witness and bring him be
fore the court to testify.
§ 676. Form 6f Subpoena. The form of a subpoena may be as
follows: i , ; :
To A. B. and C. D. of :
By authority of the state of Connecticut, you are hereby com
manded to appear before the court, to be holden at F.
on the Tuesday of to testify what you
know in a certain action pending in said court, between E. F. of H.,
plaintifff, and G. A. of M., defendant, in a civil action.
Hereof fail not, under penalty of the law.
To any proper officer or indifferent person to serve and return.
Dated at H., etc. J. K., Justice of the Peace.
§ 677. Interested witness not disqualified; credibility. No
person shall be disqualified as a witness in any action by reason of his
interest in the event of the same as a party or otherwise, or of his dis
belief in the existence of a supreme being, or of his conviction of crime ;
but such interest or conviction may be shown for the purpose of affecting
his credit.

§ 678. Wife as a witness against her husband, a wife may
be compelled to testify in any action brought against her husband for
necessaries furnished her while living apart from him.
§ 679. Depositions when and how taken. When any witness
in a civil action lives out of the state, or more than twenty miles from
the place of trial, is going to sea, or out of the state, or by age or in
firmity is unable to travel to court, or is confined in jail, his deposition
may be taken by a judge or clerk of any court, justice of the peace, notary
public, or commissioner of the superior court; but reasonable notice shall
be given to the adverse party or his known agent or attorney, or left at his
usual place of abode, to be present at the time of taking such deposition ;
and depositions may be taken in any other state or country by a notary
public, commissioner appointed by the governor of this state, or any
magistrate having power to administer oaths; and if taken out of the
United States, before any foreign minister, secretary of legation, con
sul, or vice-consul, appointed by the United States, and residing in the,
country where the deposition is taken; and the official character of
any such person may be proved by a certificate from the secretary of
state of the United States. All witnesses giving depositions shall be
cautioned to speak the whole truth, and carefully examined, and shall
subscribe their depositions, and make oath before the authority taking
the same, who shall attest the same and certify whether or not the ad
verse party or his agent was present, and whether or not he was notified,
and shall also certify the reason of taking such deposition, seal it up,
direct it to the court where it is to be used, and deliver it, if desired,
to the party at whose request it was taken.
§ 680. Depositions of persons sixty years old. The deposition
of any person of the age of sixty years may be taken in behalf of either
party to any civil action, on due notice to the adverse party or his at
torney, as in other cases; and shall be received in evidence on the trial
if such deponent is unable to attend and testify at such trial.
§ 681. Interested persons not to write depositions. Any
deposition written, drawn up, or dictated, by the party, his attorney, or
any person interested, or that shall be returned to court unsealed, or
with the seal broken, may be rejected by the court.

§ 682. Custody Of depositions. Depositions returned to the
court shall remain in the custody of its clerk, unless suppressed by order
of court, until final judgment is rendered in the ease.

§ 683. Opening Of depositions. Depositions directed to any
court may be opened by any clerk of said court at any time, and in any
county, he certifying thereon the time and place of opening the same.
§ 684. Depositions of soldiers or sailors. The court in which
any suit is pending, and any judge of said court in vacation, may issue
a commission to any person in the military or naval service of the
United States, authorizing him to take the deposition of any person in
said service, to be used as testimony in such suit, and such commissioner
may administer the requisite oath. Such deposition shall be taken by
interrogatories on the part of the party taking the same, of which
reasonable notice shall be given to the adverse party, and cross-inter
rogatories by such adverse party, with like notice to the other side. The
commission, with the interrogatories and cross-interrogatories, shall be
forwarded to the commissioner, who shall make return of his proceeding*
to the court, under seal, addressed to the clerk of said court, if there be
one, otherwise to the judge.
§ 685. Subpoena to deponent; commitment. Every judge or
clerk of any court, justice of the peace, notary public, or commissioner
of the superior court, in this state, may issue a subpwna, upon request,
for the appearance of any witness before him to give his deposition in a
civil action, when such witness is going to sea, or out of the state, is
sixty years of age, or lives more than twenty miles from the place of
trial, and may take his deposition, the adverse party or his agent being
present or duly notified ; and if such witness shall refuse to appear, such
magistrate may issue a capias and cause him to be brought before him,
and if the witness shall refuse to give his deposition, said magistrate
may commit him to prison till he shall comply ; and depositions of wit
nesses living in this state may be taken, in like manner, to be used as
evidence in a suit pending in any court of the United States, or of any
other state of the United States, on application of any party to such suit.
§ 686. Commission to take deposition of nonresident. The
superior court, the court of common pleas, and the district court of
Waterbury, and, when not actually in session, any judge thereof, may,
when necessary, issue a commission to take the deposition of any person
resident out of this state, to be used in a cause pending before such court,
notice being first given to the adverse party to appear before such court
or judge; and whenever the whereabouts of the adverse party is unknown,
it shall be lawful to take the deposition of any witness resident out of
this state, or of any witness who is going out of the state, or who is more
than sixty years of age, or who is sick and unable to attend court, after
such notice as the court before which said cause may be pending, or either
judge thereof, when said court is not actually in session, may direct.
§ 687. Depositions; compulsory process for witnesses. Every
commissioner appointed according to the laws or usages of any other
state or government, or by any court of the United States, or of any
other state or government, to take testimony in this state to be used in
any such court, may apply to the judge of any court of record, or to any
justice of the peace, notary public, or commissioner of the superior court,
for a subpwna, or capias, to compel the appearance of any witness before
such commissioner; and upon due proof of his authority, and that the
testimony of the witness is material, such judge, justice, notary public,
or commissioner of the superior court, shall issue such subpeena or capias;
and if any person, duly summoned as a witness to testify before such
commissioner, shall refuse to appear and testify, such judge, justice,
notary public, or commissioner of the superior court may commit such
person to prison until he will comply.

SEC. 87. An act concerning wit
nesses in criminal cases in other New England States.
Section 1. Any justice of the peace, upon receipt of a certificate
of the clerk of a court of record in any other New England state that a
criminal prosecution is pending in such court and that a resident of
this state is supposed to be a material witness therein, shall issue a
summons requiring such witness to appear and testify at the court in.
which such case is pending.
Sec. 2. If the person on whom such summons is served is paid or
tendered ten cents a mile to and from such court by the ordinary
traveled route and two dollars for each day's attendance required, he
shall, if he neglects without good cause to attend as a witness at the
court named in such summons, forfeit not more than three hundred
dollars to any prosecutor suing therefore.*
§ 688. Depositions; tender of fees to witness; capias. Before
any compulsory process shall issue to cause any witness to attend and
give his deposition, it shall appear to the officer who was to take the
deposition, or, in the case of a commissioner, to the officer issuing the
summons, that such witness has been duly summoned and the amount of
his fees tendered to him by the officer serving the same.

§ 689. Depositions; perpetuation of testimony. Any person
desirous of perpetuating the testimony of any witness, concerning any
matter which is or may be the subject of a suit, may present a petition
in writing to any judge of the superior court, setting forth the reasons
of his application, the name of the witness, the subject-matter of the
controversy, and the names of all persons interested therein, and praying
that the deposition of the witness may he taken; and thereupon said
judge shall appoint a time and place for the respondents to appear before
him and show cause why the prayer of the petition should not be granted,
and order such notice thereof to the parties, whether resident in this state
or not, as he may think reasonable. If at the time appointed he shall
find that such notice has been given, he shall further direct, if no
sufficient cause be shown to the contrary, that said depositions shall be
taken at such times and places as he may prescribe, either by himself
or by some other person or persons whom he may appoint for that pur
pose, who shall receive therefore from the petitioner three dollars a day.

§ 690. Depositions in perpetuam when and how kept. Deposi
tions for perpetuating testimony shall be sealed up and directed to the
clerk of the superior court in the county where the petitioners, or some
of them, reside, or, if none of the petitioners reside within this state,
to the clerk of the superior court in the county in which the respondents,
or some of them, reside; and he shall open and lodge the same on file,
together with the petition and all the proceedings thereon.
§691. Copy of such deposition receivable in evidence. Copies
of depositions taken in the manner prescribed in § 689, and certified by
the clerk of the court, shall be received in evidence in the cause for
which they were taken, and in all other causes in which the same sub
ject-matter is in suit between the same parties, or between the heirs or
personal representatives of the petitioners for the taking of such de
positions and the other parties thereto.
§ 692. Magistrate taking deposition may adjourn. The
authority before whom a deposition is taken may adjourn from time to
time, as necessity or convenience may require, giving notice thereof to
the parties present.
§ 693. Deposition may be used in appellate court. Any deposi
tion legally taken to be used upon the hearing or trial of any cause, and
legally admissible therein, may be used by either party in any appellate
court or tribunal where such evidence is competent.
§ 694. Stenographer's notes admissible in evidence. When
ever any witness in a civil action is beyond the reach of the process of
the courts of this state, or cannot be found, and his testimony has been
taken by the court stenographer upon a former trial of said action, a
certified copy of said notes by said stenographer, verified by his oath,
shall be admissible in evidence, in the discretion of the court, upon any
subsequent trial of said case, in the same manner and to the same ex
tent as a deposition of said witness would be if legally taken.
§ 695. Transcript of stenographer's notes part of record. An
exemplified transcript of the shorthand notes of any official stenographer
shall be prima facie a correct statement of the testimony and proceed
ings, and shall constitute a part of the official record in the cause or
matter in which such notes are made.

§ 696. Exemplification of laws of other states. An exempli
fication by the secretary of this state of the laws of the several states in
the United States, which have been, or hereafter shall be, transmitted
by order of their executives or legislatures to the governor of this state,
and by him deposited in the office of said secretary, or the state library,
shall be admissible in evidence in any court.
§ 697. Printed statutes of other states. The public statutes
of the several states and territories in the United States, as printed by
authority of the state or territory enacting the same, and the private or
special acts of this state, shall be legal evidence, and the courts shall
take judicial notice of them.

§ 698. Reports of judicial decisions of other states. The
reports of the judicial decisions of other states and countries may be
judicially noticed by the courts of this state as evidence of the common
law of such states or countries, and of the judicial construction of the
statutes or other laws thereof.

§ 699. Records of public offices and corporations. The entries
or records of all corporations and all public offices, where entries or
records are made of their acts, votes, and proceedings, by some officer
appointed for that purpose, may be proved by a copy certified under the
hand of such officer, and the seal of such corporation or office (if there
be any) ; and if any such officer shall knowingly make a false certifi
cate, he shall be punished in the same manner as if guilty of perjury.

§ 700. Corporation certificates; copies as prima facie
evidence. A copy of any certificate filed by any corporation for record
in the office of the secretary of state in compliance with the require
ments of law shall, when attested by said secretary under his hand and
the seal of the state, be prima facie evidence of the facts set forth
therein.

§ 65. When corporate
existence begins. Certificate as evidence. Upon the approval of
the certificate of incorporation by the secretary of the state, corporate
existence shall begin. A copy of such certificate and approval, duly
certified by the secretary of the state under his hand and the seal of the
state, shall be prima facie evidence of the legal existence of any such
corporation.

§ 701. U. S. revenue stamps on recorded documents. Certi
fied copies of any memorandum made by a recording officer, showing
the amount of the United States internal revenue stamps affixed to any
document lodged for record in his office, and of their cancellation, shall
be admissible in evidence.

§ 702. Protests Of bills and notes. Protests of inland bills of
exchange and promissory notes, protested without this state, shall be
prima facie evidence of the facts therein stated.

§ 703. Records of health officers and others. The records
of the proceedings of health officers of towns, proprietors of common and
undivided lands or of any ecclesiastical society, or religious congrega
tion, or copies thereof, certified by their respective clerks, shall be ad
missible evidence in all courts of such proceedings.

§ 704. Sworn copies of files and records. The files, records,
votes, and proceedings of any court, community, corporation, society, or
public board, having a clerk, may, when he is absent or unable to perform
the duties of his office, be proved in any court by copies examined and
sworn to by credible witnesses.

§ 705. Declarations and memoranda of deceased persons.
In actions by or against the representatives of deceased persons, the
entries, memoranda,' and declarations of the deceased, relevant to the
matter in issue, may be received as evidence; and in actions by or against,
the representatives of deceased persons, in which any trustee or receiver
is an adverse party, the testimony of the deceased, relevant to the matter
in issue, given at his examination, upon the application of said trustee
or receiver, shall be received in evidence.

§ 706. Entries admissible for those claiming title from
decedent. Whenever the entries and written memoranda of a deceased
person would be admissible in favor of his representatives, such entries
and memoranda may be admitted in favor of any person claiming title
under or from the decedent.

§ 707. Promise to pay barred debt must be in writing, in
actions against the representatives of deceased persons, no acknowledg
ment or promise shall be sufficient evidence of a new or continuing con
tract to take the case out of the statute of limitations, unless the same
be contained in some writing made or signed by the party to be charged
thereby; but this provision shall not alter the effect of any payment of
principal or interest.

§ 708. Fire communicated by railway engine. in all actions
to recover for any injury occasioned by fire communicated by any rail
road locomotive engine in this state, the fact that such fire was so com
municated shall be prima facie evidence of negligence on the part of the
person or corporation who shall, at the time of such injury by fire, be in
the use and occupation of such railroad, either as owner, lessee, or mort
gagee, and of those who shall at such time have the care' and manage
ment of such engine.

§ 709. Action on bond; value of principal's interest. When
ever, in any action brought upon a bond given in accordance with the
provisions of § 853, the defendant shall set up in his answer, or shall
claim, that the interest of the principal in the bond in the property at
tached in the suit in which the bond was given, was, at the time of the
giving of the bond, of less value than the amount ordered by the process
in such suit to be attached, the burden of proving the actual value of
such interest shall be upon the defendant.

§ 710. Adverse parties may be compelled to testify. Any
party to a civil action may compel any adverse party, or any person for
whose immediate and adverse benefit such action or proceeding is in
stituted, prosecuted, or defended, to testify as a witness in his behalf, in
the same manner and subject to the same rules as other witnesses.

§ 711. Seal and its equivalent. All instruments in writing
executed by any person or corporation not having an official or corporate
seal, purporting and intended to be a specialty or under seal, and not
otherwise sealed than by the addition of the word seal or the letters
L. S., or, in the case of an official or corporate seal, by an impression of
such seal upon the paper or other material employed, shall be deemed
in all respects sealed instruments, and received in evidence as such.

§ 502. Courts deemed to be Open When. On every week day,
except in July and August and on legal holidays, the superior court in
each county and the court of common pleas in the counties of Hartford
and Fairfield, and said last-mentioned court in the county of New Haven
on every week day except legal holidays, shall be deemed to be open,
whether any judge be in attendance or not, for the purpose of entering
appearances, judgments of nonsuit or default for want of appearance,
and filing pleadings, amendments to pleadings, and written motions;
and all such proceedings shall be had between ten o'clock in the forenoon
and four o'clock in the afternoon, at the clerk's office. No clerk of any
court shall enter any judgment of default, or nonsuit, unless directed by
the court, except where the parties fail to appear.

§ 712. Rules and practice. The rules and course of practice in
the district court of Waterbury and in the court of common pleas shall
conform as nearly as practicable to those of the superior court.
§ 458. Court may admit attorneys. The superior court may
admit and cause to be sworn as attorneys such persons as are qualified
therefore, agreeably to the rules established by the judges of said court;
and no other person than an attorney, so admitted, shall plead at the bar
of any court of this state, except in his own cause; and said judges may
establish rules relative to the admission, qualifications, practice, and
removal of attorneys.

§ 459. Attorneys Subject tO rules. Attorneys admitted by the
superior court shall be attorneys of all courts, and shall be subject to the
rules and orders of the courts before which they act, which may fine them
for transgressing such rules and orders, not exceeding one hundred dol
lars for any offense, and may suspend or displace them for just cause.

§ 460. Superior court may reinstate attorneys. The superior
court in any county may upon hearing, after written application and
such notice as the court may prescribe, reinstate as an attorney-at-law
any person resident of such county who has been suspended or displaced.
SEC. 120. An act concerning the
appointment and powers of grievance committees.
Section 1. At the first regular session or term of the superior
court held in each county after the month of July in each year, such
court shall appoint three members of the bar of such county, engaged
in practice, to be a grievance committee of such county, to remain in
office until their successors shall in like manner be appointed, whose duty
it shall be to inquire after, investigate, and present to such court, of
fenses not occurring in the actual presence of the court, involving the
character, integrity, professional standing, and conduct of members of
the bar residing or practicing in such county.
Sec. 2. Any person may be compelled, by subpoena signed by com
petent authority, to appear before such grievance committee to testify
in relation to any matter deemed by said committee to be relevant to any
inquiry or investigation by said committee, and also to produce before
said committee, for examination, any books or papers which, in the
judgment of said committee, may be relevant to such inquiry or investi
gation. Any such grievance committee, while engaged in the discharge
of its duties, shall have the same power and authority over witnesses,
and the same power and authority to commit for contempt, that justices
of the peace have.
Sec. 3. Any such grievance committee, in the conduct of any such
inquiry or investigation, may, in its discretion, employ a competent
stenographer to make a shorthand report of the testimony of any witness,
and cause the same to be transcribed and furnished to the state's attorney
for the county; and such committee may, in the conduct of any such
inquiry or investigation, require the assistance of any officer, who shall
be allowed such compensation as such committee shall deem reasonable.
Sec. 4. Every such grievance committee shall return to the clerk
of the superior court for the county an account of all expenses incurred
by it in the .discharge of its duties, including fees of witnesses and officers,
the reasonable charges of any person employed by it, and the personal
expenses of the committee, or any member thereof, which account shall
be submitted by such clerk to the state's attorney for such county, who
shall examine such account and certify the same, if reasonable and just,
•or such items as are by him deemed reasonable and just, and the sums
£0 certified shall be paid by the state on an order therefore by such clerk
SEC. 192. An act concerning evi
dence in proceedings to suspend or displace attorneys-at-law.*
In any proceeding for the suspension, displacement, or removal of an
attorney-at-law, or to investigate the character, integrity, or professional
standing of such attorney, evidence tending to show the general char
acter, reputation, and professional standing of such attorney shall be
admissible.
§ 713. Motion to Continue Or postpone. Whenever in any
action pending in the superior court, court of common pleas, city court,
or district court of Waterbury, a motion for a postponement or con
tinuance shall be made by either party, and such motion shall be granted,
the court may require the party making the same to pay to the adverse
party such sum by way of indemnity as it shall deem reasonable.
§ 714. Bond for prosecution. If the plaintifff in any civil action
be not an inhabitant of this state, or if it do not appear to the authority
signing the process that he is able to pay the costs of the action, should
judgment be rendered against him, he shall, before such process is
signed, enter into a recognizance to the adverse party with some sub
stantial inhabitant of this state as surety, or some substantial inhabitant
of this state shall enter into a recognizance to the adverse party, that
the plaintifff shall prosecute his action to effect, and answer all damages
in case he make not his plea good; and no such recognizance shall be
discharged by any amendment or alteration of the process between the
time of signing and serving it. Such recognizance may be taken in the
following form :
You, C. S., as principal, and E. €., as surety, acknowledge your
selves jointly and severally bound to J. L., in a recognizance (or,
as the case may be, You, E. C, acknowledge yourself bound to
J. L., in a recognizance) of dollars, that the said
C. S. shall prosecute the action which he has now commenced against
the said J. L. at the court to be holden at H. in and
for the county of H., on the Tuesday of ,
A. D. 19— (or, as the case may be, before J. W., a justice of the
peace for county, returnable on the •
day of 19—,) to full effect, and that he shall pay
any costs for which judgment may be rendered against him thereon.
Taken and acknowledged at H. on the day of ,
A. D. 19—, before me. J. W., Justice of the Peace.

§ 715. How bond may be noted in writ. Where a bond or
recognizance is required on any writ of summons or attachment, it may
be noted in the writ in the following manner:
E. C. of is recognized in $ to prosecute, etc.,
or words to that effect.

§ 716. When bond may be ordered by court. When the court
in which any action is pending shall find that any bond taken therein

for prosecution, or on appeal, is insufficient, or that the plaintifff has
given no bond for prosecution and is not able to pay the costs, it shall
order a sufficient bond to be given before trial, unless the trial will
thereby necessarily be delayed ; and the party failing to comply with such
order may be nonsuited or defaulted, as the case may be. Bonds for
the prosecution of any civil action or appeal, pending in any court, may
be taken in vacation by its clerk.

§ 717. Action on probate bond; indorsement of writ. The writ
in every action brought upon a probate bond, or bond taken to a judge
of probate and his successors in office, shall be abatable unless, before its
issue, some responsible inhabitant of the state sign a written indorse
ment upon it, substantially as follows : " I agree to be responsible for
the costs of this suit." The indorser shall be liable for the costs of suit
in case of judgment for the defendant, and such judgment shall be
rendered against the indorser, and not against the plaintifff. If the in
dorser shall die or remove from this state, a new indorser on such writ
shall be substituted ; and the court before which the suit is pending may
at any time order the substitution of a new indorser, to be approved by
it, who shall indorse the writ and be liable for the costs from the com
mencement of the suit in the same manner as the original indorser. For
any failure to comply with such an order the plaintifff may be nonsuited.

§ 718. Member of community defending to give bond. When, ,
in any action against a community, any individual member of it shall
appear to defend, he shall procure bond with surety to the acceptance of
the court in which the action is pending, to save such community harm
less from all costs which may arise by reason of such appearance; which
bond shall be payable to such community, and be filed in said court;
and if such individual shall successfully defend against such action, he
shall be entitled to the costs recoverable from the plaintifff, unless the
community likewise appeared and incurred the costs of such defense.

§719. Surety company bond acceptable. Any surety company
chartered by this state or authorized to do business therein may be
accepted as surety or recognizor upon any and all bonds or recognizances
required by law in civil actions or in any proceedings instituted under
the statutes of this state, and in any case where a bond or recognizance
is by law required, the bond of such company, duly executed and con
ditioned for the performance of the obligations expressed in such
bond or recognizance, may be accepted by the person having authority
thereto, and shall be filed by him in the court to which such action or pro
ceeding is returnable or pending.

§ 720. Jury docket and jury trials. In the superior court, court
of common pleas, district court of Waterbury, and city courts, dockets
shall be kept of all cases, and in such dockets immediately following the
names of the parties and their attorneys in all jury cases there shall be
entered the word " jury." The following-named classes of eases shall
be so entered in the docket as jury cases upon the written request of
either party made to the clerk within thirty days after the return day,
to wit : Appeals from probate involving the validity of a will, or paper
purporting to be such; appeals from the doings of commissioners on
insolvent estates, and, except as hereinafter provided, civil actions in
volving such an issue of fact as, prior to January first. 1880, would not
present a question properly cognizable in equity. When in any of the
above-named cases an issue of fact is joined, after said period, the case
may, within ten days after such issue of fact is joined, be entered in
the docket as a jury case upon the request of either party made to the
clerk; and any of such cases may, at any time, be entered in the docket
as a jury case by the clerk, upon written consent of all parties, or by
order of court. All cases not entered in the docket as jury cases under
the foregoing provisions, including actions wherein the plaintifff sues
for a debt due by book to balance book accounts, actions wherein an
account is demanded and judgment rendered that the defendant do
account, writs of habeas corpus, prohibition, and ne exeat, complaints
for divorce, and all other special statutory proceedings, which, prior to
January first, 1880, were not triable by jury, shall be entered on the
docket as court cases, and shall, together with all issues of law and issues
of fact, other than those above specified, which may be joined in actions
entered on the docket as jury cases, be disposed of as court cases.

§ 721. Damages and equitable relief both claimed; separate
trials. Whenever an action brought to recover damages and also to
obtain equitable relief, is duly placed upon the docket as a jury case, no
determination of the equitable issues raised by the pleadings shall pre
vent *a jury trial of the claim for damages, unless both parties agree in
writing to waive a jury, or unless the determination of the equitable
issues has necessarily adjudicated all the facts upon which the claims for
damages rest.

§ 722. More than One iSSUe Of fact. If more than one issue
of fact be joined in a cause upon the docket as a jury case, either party
may, and the party placing it upon the docket as a jury case shall, within
three weeks after the issues are joined, file with the clerk a written notice,
stating whether he desires all such issues to be tried to the jury, and, if
not, which of them he desires to be so tried. All issues which either party
desires tried to the jury, and which are specified in such notice or notices,
shall be so tried; provided they are such as, under the foregoing provi
sions, are properly triable by jury ; but any other issues in the cause shall
be tried as the court may direct, by the court, the jury, or by a committee.

SEC. 236. An act concerning trial
by jury in Civil actions. Upon the application of either party, the court
may order any issue or issues of fact which may have been or may here
after be joined in any action demanding equitable relief to be tried by a
jury.*
§ 723. Orders as to priority of trial of issues, in all cases,
whether entered upon the docket as jury cases or court cases, the court
may order that one or more of the issues joined be tried before the others.
I 723. This section took its present shape by Public Acts of 1905, p. 263, chap. 56.
See 63 C. 560.
§ 724. Jury fee to be paid before trial. The party in a civil
action at whose request the cause is entered upon the docket as a jury
case, shall pay to the clerk, before the commencement of the trial thereof,
the jury fee legally payable for such trial; and such fee shall be taxed
in favor of the party paying the same in the bill of costs in such action,
if final judgment thereon shall be rendered in his favor.

§ 725. Jury in suit before justice of the peace. when any
action is pending before a justice of the peace, in which the matter in
demand exceeds twenty dollars in amount or value, a jury of six shall be
summoned to try the same, on motion of either party, made either before
the return day, in which case it must be supported by filing a written
statement, signed by the adverse party or his attorney, that an issue of fact
will be joined, or after an issue of fact has been joined; provided the
party moving for a jury shall enter into a recognizance with surety to
the adverse party, in such sum as the court shall order, conditioned for
the payment of all costs in case final judgment is rendered against him.

§ 726. Transfer of causes by agreement of parties. Any
cause or the trial of any issue or issues therein may be transferred, by
agreement of the parties, from the superior court in one county to the
superior court in any other county, upon their filing a stipulation to
that effect in the cause, signed by them or their attorneys; and on the
filing of such stipulation the clerk of the court shall transfer the files
in the cause to the clerk of the court in such other county, and if simply
the trial of an issue or issues in said cause are transferred, the files,
after such issues are disposed of, shall be returned to the clerk of the
court in the original county, and judgment may be entered in said court.

§ 727. Offer Of judgment. In all actions on contract, or for the
recovery of money only, the defendant may before trial file with the
justice of the peace or with the clerk of the court, as the case may be,
a written notice signed by him or his attorney, directed to the plaintifff
or his attorney, offering to allow the plaintifff to take judgment for the
sum named in such notice.

§ 728. Acceptance of offer of judgment, in all actions except
those before a justice of the peace, the plaintifff may, within ten days after
being notified by the defendant of the filing of such offer, and in actions
before a justice of the peace within forty-eight hours after such notifica
tion, file with the clerk of the court or justice of the peace, as the case
may be, a written acceptance of said offer signed by himself or his at
torney; and such written acceptance being filed, the court or justice of
the peace shall render judgment against the defendant, as upon default,
for the sum so named, and for the costs accrued at the time of the de
fendant's giving the plaintifff notice of said offer. No trial shall be
postponed because the period within which the plaintifff may accept such
offer shall not have expired, except at the discretion of said court or
justice.

§ 729. Offer not accepted; withdrawal; costs, if the plaintifff
shall not, within said time and before the commencement of the trial,
file his notice of acceptance, such offer shall be deemed to be withdrawn,
and shall not be given in evidence; and the plaintifff, unless he shall
recover more than the sum named in such offer, with interest from its
date, shall recover no costs accruing after he received notice of the filing
of such offer, but shall pay the defendant's costs accruing after said time.
The provisions of this section shall not apply to cases in which nominal
damages are assessed upon a hearing after a default or a demurrer over
ruled.
§ 4052. Ejectment. Set-off of defendant's improvements.
Final judgment shall not be rendered, in any action to recover the pos
session of land, against any defendant who has, in good faith, believing
his title to the land in question absolute, made improvements thereon
before the commencement of the action, or whose grantors or ancestors
have so made such improvements, until the court shall have ascertained
the present value of such improvements and the amount reasonably due
to the plaintifff from the defendant for the use and occupation of said
land ; and if such value of such improvements exceeds such amount due
for use and occupation, execution shall not be issued until the plaintifff
has paid said balance to the defendant or into court for his benefit; but
if the plaintifff shall elect to have the title confirmed in the defendant,
and shall, upon the rendition of the verdict, file notice of such election
with the clerk of the court, the court shall ascertain what sum ought in
equity to be paid to the plaintifff by the defendant or other parties in
interest, and on payment thereof may confirm the title to said land in
the parties paying it.

§ 730. Precedence of actions in favor of the state. All civil
actions brought by or on behalf of the state, including informations on
the relation of a private individual, shall have precedence of all others
in respect to the order of trial, except actions upon probate bonds.

§ 731. Precedence of other cases in the order of trial. Writs
of error in cases of summary process, and any objections made to the
acceptance of the report of a committee or auditor, or award of an ar
bitrator, shall be heard and determined at the term or session to which
such writs or reports may be returned, unless a continuance be granted
for cause; and appeals from probate, and from the doings of commis
sioners appointed by courts of probate, and actions brought by receivers
of insolvent corporations by order of the court by which such receivers
were appointed, shall have precedence of all other civil actions in respect
to the order of trial, except as provided in § 730.

§ 732. Motion for disclosure. In any civil action in the superior
court, court of common pleas, district court of Waterbury, or city court,
the plaintifff at any time after entry of action, and the defendant at any
time after answer, may file a motion praying for a disclosure of facts,
or production of papers, books, or documents material to the support or
defense of the suit, within the knowledge, possession, or power of the
adverse party, and such facts, papers, books, or documents, being dis
closed or produced, may be given in evidence by the party filing such
motion.

§ 733. Procedure; affidavit and interrogatories. Upon affi
davit being made by the person filing such motion, that he verily believes
all the matters therein set forth to be true, the person of whom such
disclosure or production is sought shall plead, answer, or demur, in such
time as the court shall prescribe. If interrogatories are filed with such
motion, each interrogatory shall be answered separately and fully, and
the answers shall be in writing signed by the party, and upon his oath.

§ 734. Disclosure; examination of officer of corporation, if
a corporation is party to an action, the opposite party may examine the
president, treasurer, secretary, clerk, or any director or other officer
thereof, in the same manner as if he were a party to the suit.
§ 735. What questions need not be answered. The party
interrogated shall not be obliged to answer a question or produce a docu
ment, the answering or producing of which would tend to criminate
himself, or to disclose his title to any property, the title whereof is not
material to the trial of the action in the course of which he is inter
rogated.
§ 736. Nonsuit or default on failure to comply, if a party
fails to comply with such order of disclosure or production he shall be
nonsuited or defaulted; and upon motion to set aside such nonsuit or
default, the court may grant the motion upon compliance with such
terms as the court may impose.

§ 737. Disclosure not Conclusive. When either party in any
action shall have obtained of the other party a disclosure on oath, respect
ing the matters alleged in any pleading, the disclosure shall not be
deemed conclusive, but may be contradicted like any other testimony.
§ 738. Action on bond; defense; assignment. When in any
action for legal relief on a bond, note, or other chose in action not nego
tiable, the defendant shall plead or prove any matter of defense, the
plaintifff may reply or prove an assignment of such bond, note, or other
chose in action, to a third party and notice thereof given to the de
fendant before said action was commenced.

§ 739. Action against executor or administrator as such, in
all cases in which any person shall have a legal claim against any
executor, administrator, guardian, or trustee, growing out of monies
paid or services rendered for the estate in the hands of such executor,
administrator, guardian, or- trustee, and which should, justly, be paid
out of such estate, a civil action may be brought by such claimant against
such executor, administrator, guardian, or trustee, while in office, or
against the successor of any of them, if he shall have ceased to hold such
office, and if such claim shall be found to be a just one, and one which
ought to be equitably paid out of such estate, judgment may be rendered
in favor of such claimant, to be paid wholly out of the estate so held by
such executor, administrator, guardian, or trustee; provided, always,
that if there shall not be sufficient estate to satisfy said claim or claims
in the hands of such executor, administrator, guardian, or trustee, this
section shall not be so construed as to prevent any claimant from pur
suing his legal remedy against such executor, administrator, guardian,
or trustee, at his election, for the balance that may be due him, nor from
electing to hold any such official liable to his personal responsibility for
any debt contracted in the execution of his said trust.


§ 740. Demand for receipt not to vitiate a legal tender. The
requirement or demand of a receipt for such amount of lawful money
as may be offered or tendered on account, or in payment or in part pay
ment of any indebtedness, shall not prevent such offer or tender from
being regarded or held to be a legal tender.
§ 741. Hearing in damages before jury. In every action at
law in which the defendant suffers a default, or in which judgment is
rendered for the plaintifff upon a demurrer to the complaint overruled,
and there is a hearing in damages, said hearing in damages shall be to
the jury if either party to said action shall, within thirty days after such
default entered or demurrer overruled, file with the clerk of the court in
which such action is pending a request in writing that such hearing in
damages be so held.

SEC. 175. Entry of judgment by
default. In any civil action wherein a notice of intention to suffer a
default has been filed, the clerk of the court in which the action is pend
ing shall, upon request of either party, enter up judgment of default.
§ 742. Hearing in damages; notice; evidence; contradiction.
In any hearing in damages upon default suffered or after demurrer
overruled, the defendant shall not be permitted to offer evidence to
contradict any allegations in the plaintifff's complaint, except such as
relate to the amount of damage, unless he shall have given written notice
to the plaintifff of his intention to contradict such allegations and of the
subject-matter which he intends to contradict, nor shall the defendant be
permitted to deny the right of the plaintifff to maintain such action, nor
shall he be permitted to prove any matter of defense, unless he shall have
given written notice to the plaintifff of his intention to deny such right
or to prove such matter of defense.

§ 743. Judges of superior court to make rules. The judges
of the superior court shall make such rules as to the manner of filing
such notices and as to the form thereof as they may deem proper.
§ 744. Writings; admission of their execution. Either party
to a civil action may, by a written notice, call upon the other to admit
the existence and due execution of any document, material to the issue,
saving all just exceptions ; and in case of refusal or neglect to make such
admission, within a reasonable time after the receipt of such notice, the
costs of proving such document shall be paid by the party so neglecting
or refusing, whatever may be the result of the action; unless the court
find that such neglect or refusal was reasonable.
§ 745. Reception of evidence objected to as inadmissible.
Whenever evidence offered upon the trial of any civil action is objected
to as inadmissible, the court or committee trying such action shall not
admit such evidence subject to the objection, unless both parties agree
that it be so admitted ; but if either party shall request a decision, such
court or committee shall pass upon such objection and admit or reject
the testimony.

§ 746. Judgment too large; remittitur; correction, if any
judgment has been or shall be rendered by mistake or clerical error, for
a larger sum than is due, the excess may be remitted by the party re
covering the judgment, at the same or any subsequent term or session of
the court in which it was rendered, reasonable notice being first given
to the adverse party or his attorney ; and the court may thereupon order
the record of said judgment to be corrected, and affirm the same for the
amount to' which it has been remitted.

§ 747. Argument of counsel; time limit, in all trials on appeals
from judgments of justices of the peace, only one counsel shall be heard
on each side, except by special leave of the court ; and in no trial before
the superior court, court of common pleas, or district court of Waterbury,
shall counsel occupy more than one hour in argument, unless the
court shall, on motion for special cause, before the commencement of such
argument, allow a longer time; and in no case shall interlocutory ques
tions, arising during the trial of a cause, be argued by counsel, unless the
court shall request it.

§ 748. Opening defaults. Any judgment rendered or decree
passed upon a default, in the superior court, court of common pleas, the
district court of Waterbury, or in any city court, may be set aside at the
term succeeding that in which it was rendered or passed, and the cause
reinstated on the docket, on such terms, as respects costs, as the court
may deem reasonable, upon the complaint of any person prejudiced
thereby, showing that a good defense in whole or part existed at the
time of the rendition of said judgment or the passage of such decree,
and that the defendant was prevented by mistake, accident, or other
reasonable cause, from appearing to make the. same.

§ 749. Contents Of Complaint. Such complaint shall be verified
by the oath of the complainant or his attorney, and shall state in general

terms the nature of the defense, and particularly set forth the reason why
the defendant failed to appear. The court shall order reasonable notice
of the pendency of such complaint to be given to the adverse party, and
may enjoin him against enforcing said judgment or decree until the
decision upon said complaint.

§ 750. Justice appeals when to be entered. All appeals from
judgments of justices of the peace may be entered by the appellant in
the appellate court before two o'clock in the afternoon of the day next
following the return day to which appeals are taken, without costs, and
at any time afterwards during the same term or session but before the
next return day, unless previously entered by the appellee, on paying to
the appellee his costs up to such time, including the expense of a copy if
procured for the purpose of entering the appeal, which shall not be re
funded however the cause may be eventually determined. The appellee
may after two o'clock in the afternoon of the day next following the re
turn day of the court to which the appeal is taken and during the same
term or session, but before the next return day, enter said appeal if not
previously entered by the appellant, and have the judgment of the court
from which the appeal was taken, affirmed, with additional costs. Such
judgment may, at the discretion of the court, be set aside, on motion of
the appellant at any time during the same term or session, on payment
to the appellee of all his costs up to that time, including the expense
of the copy; and the appellant may, on making such payment, prosecute
such appeal as if he had entered it himself.

§ 751. Reservation Of questions Of law. Questions of law may
be reserved for the advice of the supreme court of errors in all cases in
which an appeal could lawfully have been taken to said court had
judgment been rendered therein ; but no such questions shall be reserved
without the consent of all parties to the record. The court or judge
making such reservation shall, in the judgment, decree, or decision made
or rendered in such cases, conform to the advice of the supreme court of
errors.

§ 753. Questions of law and of fact how decided. The court
shall decide all issues of law, and all questions of law arising in the
trial of any issue of fact; and in committing the cause to the jury shall
direct them to find accordingly, and shall submit all questions of fact to
the jury, with such observations on the evidence, for their information,
as it may think proper, without any direction how they shall find the
facts. After the cause is committed to the jury, no pleas, arguments, or
evidence shall be received before the verdict is returned into court and
recorded.

§ 755. Verdict by nine jurors. A legal verdict may be rendered
by any number of jurors not less than nine, in any civil cause in which
the parties shall agree in writing, before the rendition of such verdict,
that such portion of the jury may render it.

§ 756. Jury may be twice returned to consider verdict. The
court may, if it judges the jury have mistaken the evidence in the cause
and have brought in a verdict contrary to it, or have brought in a verdict
contrary to the direction of the court in a matter of law, return them to
a second consideration, and for like reason may return them to a third
consideration, and no more.

§ 757. Special Verdicts. The court shall determine questions
of law referred to it by the jury in a special verdict, which they may
give when they entertain doubts respecting points of law arising in the
cause, or when the parties request it; in which verdict they shall find the
facts, and state the questions of law thus :
If the law be so in such a point, then we find for the plaintifff; but if
the law be otherwise, then we find for the defendant.
And when the jury find a verdict in favor of the plaintifff, it shall
assess the damages which he shall be entitled to recover.

§ 758. Judgment on verdict; assessment of damages. The
court shall render judgment on all verdicts of the jury, according to their
finding, with costs, unless the verdict shall be set aside; and in all cases
where judgment is rendered otherwise than on a verdict, in favor of the
plaintifff, the court shall assess the damages which he shall recover.

§ 759. Trial to the court; special finding, in all actions for
legal relief, when the parties shall join in an issue of fact and put them
selves on the court for trial, the judge of such court may hear and try the
same without a jury, and award damages and costs, and grant execution,
in the same manner and on the same principles as in trials by jury;
but in all such trials, if not before a justice of the peace, the court shall
find, upon motion of either party, the facts upon which its judgment is
founded, and cause such finding to become a part of the record.

§ 760. Judgment for or against some of the parties only. In
all civil actions, where a cause of action shall be sustained in favor of or
against only a part of the parties thereto, judgment may be rendered in
favor of or against such parties only; but any defendant against whom
no recovery shall be obtained shall be entitled to costs.
§ 761. Motion for nonsuit. When on the trial of any issue in
fact, in a civil action, the plaintifff shall have produced his evidence and
rested his cause, the defendant may move for judgment as in case of non
suit, and the court may grant such motion, if in its opinion the plaintifff
shall have failed to make out a prima facie case.
§ 762. Refusal to set aside nonsuit; appeal. When a nonsuit
shall have been so granted in the superior court, court of common pleas,
or district court of Waterbury, the plaintifff may, during the same term
or session of the court and before its next return day, file a written
motion to set aside such judgment; and, if such motion shall be denied,
may appeal as in other cases; and to enable him so to do, the court shall
state the whole evidence so produced as aforesaid, that it may become a
part of the record. If such judgment shall be set aside, either on motion,
or appeal, the cause shall be proceeded with as though no nonsuit had
been granted.
§ 763. Facts found to appear of record. All courts shall keep
a record of their proceedings, and cause the facts on which they found
their final judgments and decrees to appear on the record; and such
finding, if requested by any party, shall specially set forth such facts.
§ 765. Judge to file memorandum of decision on demurrer.
Whenever a demurrer to any pleading is filed and argUed before the judge
of any court, and more than one ground of demurrer is set up therein,
the judge, in rendering his decision thereon, shall specify in writing the
grounds upon which said decision is based.

§ 510. Continuance of trial after expiration of term. Any
judge of the superior court or of the court of common pleas, who shall
have commenced the trial of any civil cause, shall have power to continue
such trial and render judgment after the expiration of the term or session
of the court at which such trial commenced ; but such trial shall be
ended and judgment rendered before the close of the next term or
session.

§ 766. Actions on contract; evidence of damages since suit.
In any action founded in contract, for the recovery of damages, the
plaintifff may offer evidence of any damages that may have accrued from
the same cause of action subsequent to the bringing of the suit, provided
he shall have given reasonable notice to the defendant of the damages so
designed to be proved, and may recover judgment for the full amount of
damages he may prove that he has sustained. The plaintifff, upon giving
such notice, may, by leave of the court, increase the amount of his de
mand in the writ, without costs; but no increase shall be made which
shall carry the demand beyond the jurisdiction of the court.

§ 767. Damages in actions for libel, in every action for a
libel the defendant may give proof of intention ; and unless the plaintifff
shall prove either malice in fact, or that the defendant, after having
been requested by him in writing to retract the libelous charge, in as
public a manner as that in which it was made, failed to do so within a
reasonable time, he shall recover nothing but such actual damage as he
may have specially alleged and proved.

§ 768. Damages in actions on penal bonds. In actions on
penal bonds, containing conditions which have been broken, such damages
only shall be assessed as are equitably due, and judgment shall not be
rendered for the whole penalty, unless it appears to be due ; and if upon
a bond with conditions, the breach of which may happen at different
times, a suit be brought upon the first breach, the court, upon the for
feiture of such bond found, shall render judgment for what is due in
equity at the time, with costs, and award execution ; and upon any further
or other breach of condition, the obligee, his executors, or administrators,
may take out a scire facias against the obligor, his executors, or ad
ministrators, from the clerk of the court in which the judgment was
given, to show cause why execution should not be awarded for the money
then due, or damages then sustained; and the court shall render judg
ment for what shall appear to be due in equity, and grant execution
thereon, and so, from time to time, till the condition is fully performed ;
but the whole amount of such judgment shall not exceed the penalty
of the bond with interest.

§ 769. Costs how affected by damages, in all actions
founded on tort, tried in the superior court, court of common pleas, or
the district court of Waterbury, or any city court, and not brought to
such court by appeal, if the damages found do not exceed fifty dollars, the
plaintifff shall recover no more costs than damages, unless the title to
property, or a right of way, or to the use of water, is in question, or un
less the damages were reduced below said amount, by reason of some act of
the defendant pending the suit; in either of which cases the plaintifff shall
recover full costs. Judgment for nominal damages upon a hearing after
a default or a demurrer overruled, shall entitle the party in whose favor
they are given to the full taxable costs of the suit.

§ 770. Costs on appeal from judgment of a justice. When,
on an appeal in any civil action from the judgment of a justice of the
peace, or from a judgment of any city, borough, or town court, or from
the doings of commissioners on any insolvent estate, a more favorable
judgment shall not be obtained by the appellant in the appellate court,
he shall recover no costs on such appeal; and the court may at its dis
cretion allow double costs to the appellee. If the appellant shall obtain
a more favorable judgment, the court may, at its discretion, tax costs
on the appeal in his favor, and tax no costs on the appeal in favor of the
appellee, although the appellee shall obtain judgment in the appellate
court.

§ 771. Costs when plaintifff is partly successful; double
pleading. If a verdict shall be found on any issue joined in the cause
in favor of the plaintifff, costs shall be allowed to him, though on some
other issue the defendant should be entitled to judgment, unless the
court which tried such issue shall be of opinion that the defendant had
probable cause to plead such matter which has been so found against him ;
and in actions of replevin, where the defendant makes avowry, the plain
tiff may plead double.

§ 772. Plaintiff not to recover costs when. No costs shall be
recovered by the plaintifff in any case when he has begun an action with
counts in fraud only and afterwards amends his complaint. by substitut
ing or adding counts in contract; but in such cases the defendant shall
recover his taxable costs, and the court may, in its discretion, tax double
costs in favor of the defendant.

§ 773. False affidavit or statement of merits; costs, in all
cases in which an affidavit of merits has been filed by the defendant, or
a statement that he has a bona fide defense has been made to the court
by his attorney, and the. plaintifff recovers judgment, if the court shall be
of opinion that such affidavit was filed or statement made without just
cause, and for the purpose of delay, it may allow to the plaintifff, at its
discretion, double, triple, or quadruple costs.
§ 774. Costs where wages only are attached, in any action
in which wages only are attached, no costs shall be taxed in favor of the
plaintifff, unless it shall appear to the court or justice of the peace before

which or whom such action is brought, that demand was made upon the
defendant for the payment of the claim sued for, not more than thirty
days nor less than three days prior to the bringing of such action.
§ 775. Costs for service by indifferent person. No costs shall
be taxed without the written consent of the defendant, for service of
mesne process in any civil action by an indifferent person, if the court
before which it is returnable shall find that no sufficient reason existed
for the deputation of such person to serve the same.
§ 776. Officer's fees when garnishee is not cited in. in all
actions commenced by process of foreign attachment in which any
garnishee is not cited in to disclose, the court may tax and allow, or
disallow, all or any part of the fees of the officer for service of the writ
upon such garnishee; and such fees, if disallowed by the court, shall be
paid to the officer by the plaintifff.
§ 777. Costs on attachment of debt for personal services.
In any action in which, upon the service of process, monies due to the
defendant by reason of personal services are attached, the plaintifff shall
not recover of the defendant, as costs, a sum exceeding one-half of the
amount of damages recovered in the action.
§ 778. Costs where there are more suits than necessary.
When two or more suits shall be pending in the same court at the same
time for the recovery of the same demand, or against two or more officers,
upon receipts for executions arising from the same original judgment,
the court shall not allow any costs in any such suit, unless it be of
opinion that the commencement of said several suits was necessary to
secure said demand.
§ 779. Costs in actions for foreclosure. The plaintifff in every
action of foreclosure of any mortgage or lien, upon obtaining judgment
of foreclosure, when there has been a hearing as to the form of judgment
or the limitation of time for redemption, shall be allowed the same
costs as if there had been a hearing on an issue of fact.
§ 780. Costs of application to dissolve injunction. The costs
of an application to dissolve an injunction may be allowed and taxed
by the court, according to its discretion, in making the final decree. In
all cases where a motion for the dissolution of a temporary injunction
shall be heard before any judge in vacation, such judge shall be entitled
to be paid a reasonable sum for his time and expenses, by the party
moving for such dissolution, which shall be taxed in the bill of costs like
other costs in actions for equitable relief.

§ 781. Expenses and counsel fees in actions to construe will.
In any action brought to a court of equitable jurisdiction for the construc
tion of a will, by any person acting in a fiduciary capacity thereunder,
there shall be allowed to each of the parties to such proceeding such
reasonable sum for expenses and counsel fees as said court, in its
discretion, shall deem proper; which allowance shall be taxed as costs
in the cause, to he paid out of said estate.

§ 782. Deposition; failure to attend; costs, when a notice
shall be given to an adverse party or his known agent or attorney, or
left at his usual place of abode, that a deposition will be taken at a
certain time and place, and such adverse party, or his agent or attorney,
shall appear at such time and place for that purpose and the party
giving such notice shall not appear, or, for any reason, shall not take
such deposition at such time and place, costs shall be allowed to the
adverse party at the discretion of the court before which the action is
pending.
§ 783. Costs in suit against manufacturer for nuisance.
Costs upon a complaint against a manufacturer under § 1014, to abate
or discontinue a nuisance, may be taxed at the discretion of the court.
§ 784. Costs in amicable SUitS. All costs incurred in any
amicable suit, under § 955, 956, shall be borne equally by the contesting
parties.
§ 785. Costs On motion tO expunge. Costs upon a motion to
expunge or correct pleadings, under § 616, may be taxed at the discretion
of the court, whether such motion be granted or not.
§ 786. Unliquidated damages; tender. Any party upon whom
a claim for unliquidated damages is made may tender to the claimant
a sum of money in payment thereof, which tender may be pleaded and
in all respects be as effectual as a tender in case of a claim for debt.

§ 787. Record fee in supreme court must be prepaid. No
appeal nor writ of error to the supreme court of errors shall be allowed,
nor shall any cause be reserved for the advice of said court, until the
party appealing, the plaintifff in error, or the plaintifff in the cause re
served, shall have paid to the clerk of the court or the judge allowing
or reserving the same a record fee of twenty-five dollars, which amount
shall be taxed in favor of the appellant, or of the plaintifff, provided
judgment is finally rendered in his favor. If the appeal or reservation
or writ of error is withdrawn before the printing of the record is com
menced, the record fee shall be refunded to the party paying the same,
otherwise it shall be paid over to the state by such clerk or judge.

§ 788. Appeals to supreme court of errors. Upon the trial
of all matters of fact in any cause or action, except summary process,
in the superior court, court of common pleas, district court of Waterbury,
or any city court, whether to the court or jury, if either party
thinks himself aggrieved by the decision of the court upon any ques
tion or questions of law arising in the trial, he may appeal from the
judgment of the court in such cause or action, and remove the said
question or questions, for revision, to the supreme court of errors next
to be held after the filing of the appeal, in the judicial district where
the judgment was rendered; and when a final judgment is rendered in
any cause in which a party may be entitled to a writ of error to the
supreme court of errors, he may appeal from such judgment to the
next term of said court which would have cognizance of a writ of error
in the cause; and if the court rendering such judgment shall be of
opinion that the appeal is not intended for delay, but that the questions
arising on the' record are such as entitle the party to a revision thereof,
it may allow said appeal upon the conditions hereinafter prescribed;
provided, that all appeals authorized by this section from the judgments
of the district court of Waterbury may be taken to the supreme court of
errors sitting in the third or in the first judicial district, at the election
of the appellant.

§ 789. Appeals in actions demanding an accounting. When,
in any action demanding an accounting, a judgment shall be rendered
ordering such accounting, appeal may be had from such judgment to
the supreme court of errors, as if it were a final judgment. The court
rendering such judgment may, in its discretion, order such appeal to
be taken to the next session of the supreme court of errors holden in
any district other than the district where said court shall be sitting, and
such appeal shall have precedence in the supreme court of errors. 

§ 790. Notice Of appeal. Every party to E cause desiring to
take an appeal under the provisions of this chapter shall, within one
week after the rendition of the judgment in such cause, file with the
clerk of the court in which such judgment was rendered a written notice
signed by such party or his attorney, containing the name of the cause
or action and of the court, and stating that said party appeals from said
judgment.

§ 791. Time within which appeals may be taken, if no find
ing of facts or further action of the judge be necessary to present
properly the questions in the cause, the party appealing shall, within
ten days from the rendition of such judgment, file with the clerk of the
court where such judgment is rendered an appeal in writing, substantially
in the form hereinafter provided, and shall at the time of filing said
appeal give sufficient security to the adverse party by bond or recogniz
ance, conditioned that he will prosecute said appeal to effect and will
pay all costs if he shall fail so to do; and unless said bond be so given
said appeal shall be void and of no effect; but the judge of said court
may, for due cause shown, extend the time for giving such security, or
for filing such appeal, or for filing such notice of appeal, and such appeal
when so made effectual shall be allowed by said clerk. Additional
security may be ordered by such judge or by the court to which such
appeal is taken.

§ 792. Finding Of facts. If it becomes necessary for the proper
presentation of questions of law arising in the cause that there should be
a finding of all the facts therein, or of sufficient facts to present, prop
erly, objections to testimony, or errors claimed to exist in the charge or
rulings of the judge, such judge shall, upon request of the party so
giving notice of appeal, make such necessary finding; and, in such
cases, said appeal need not be filed until ten days after such finding has
been filed with the clerk by said judge, and the party giving notice of ap
peal has been notified thereof by the clerk; and in case said judge shall
refuse or neglect to make such finding, the supreme court of errors shall
upon application of any party to said action made in any judicial dis
trict in which said court may be in session, order said judge to make and
file said finding within such time as said court shall fix.

§ 793. Request, finding and counter-finding. The request to
a judge by a party for a finding under the provisions of this chapter must
be in writing, and must contain a draft of said proposed finding, and a
statement of the questions of law arising thereon which it is desired
to have reviewed; and such request must, within two weeks after the
rendition of the judgment, be filed in duplicate with the clerk, who
shall forthwith notify the judge, and also the counsel on the opposite
side, who may, if they desire, within one week thereafter, make and
file with such clerk a counter-finding, which counter-finding shall be
filed in duplicate; but the judge may, for cause shown, extend the time
for so filing such request and finding, or such counter-finding, for a
further period of not more than ten days; provided, that in all cases
in which notice of an appeal to the supreme court of errors has been
filed, all proceedings to make or complete the record on such appeal
shall be suspended during the months of July and August.

§ 794. Notice Of finding. When any finding is filed by the judge,
the clerk shall notify the counsel' on each side, in writing, and if either
desire any correction in, or addition to the same, he shall, within one
week after receiving such notice, file, in writing, his motion therefore,
specifying particularly what he desires, together with his reasons and
grounds for the same. Counsel will not be entitled to argue such motions
orally.

§ 795. Contents and form of finding; exceptions, in any draft
of a proposed finding or counter-finding, in a civil action tried to the
court without a jury, in which a right of appeal exists under the
provisions of § 788, the party may incorporate such facts as he claims to
have proven on the trial and to be material for the presentation of any
errors of law on which he relies as grounds of appeal. In such case the
draft, and also the finding of the judge, when made, shall be divided into
paragraphs, numbered consecutively, and each containing, as nearly as
may be, a separate allegation. When such finding is filed, if either
party files a motion to correct or add to it, he may annex thereto written
exceptions to any finding of a fact therein or to any refusal to find a
fact as requested by him, and all evidence claimed by either party to be
material in determining as to the existence of the facts to which such
exceptions relate, so far as the judge shall find such evidence to have
been given, and any other evidence deemed by the judge to be material,
together with the request for and draft of finding submitted to the
court, shall be made part of tho record. Such exceptions may be in the
following form:
A. B. . County,
vs. Court,
C. D. day of — 19—.
1st. The plaintifff (or defendant) excepts to the finding of the
court as stated in paragraph No. —, and requests that the following
evidence, which he claims is material, may be certified by the court,
as appears by Exhibit " A," hereunto annexed. 2d. The plaintifff
(or defendant) excepts to the refusal of the court to find as re
quested in paragraph No. of his request, and requests that the
following evidence, which he claims is material, may be certified by
the court, as appears by Exhibit " B," hereunto annexed.
Either party may appeal from any finding of fact, or refusal to find
any fact as requested, to the supreme court of errors, and upon such
appeal the request of the party for a finding and all the evidence allowed
by the court shall become part of the record of the case.

§ 796. Facts how far reviewable on appeal. Every such ex
ception may be assigned as a reason of appeal, and if it appears that
the finding does not present the questions of law decided by the trial
court, the supreme court of errors shall correct said finding accordingly ;
and if it shall appear to said court that material facts have been found
without evidence, or that material facts have been proved and not found,
it shall grant a new trial. The expense of printing any evidence so made
part of the record shall be paid by the party taking the exceptions to
which it relates, at the actual expense thereof, not to exceed one dollar
for each legal page for one copy, and such expense, not exceeding fifty
dollars, may be taxed in favor of the prevailing party.

§ 797. Evidence and rulings may be made part of record.
When a finding of facts shall have been filed by the trial judge, either
party, in lieu of the method to correct the finding provided in § 794,
795, and 796, may, within one week after he shall have received notice
of the filing of such finding, file with the clerk of the court a copy of the
evidence and rulings in the case, duly certified by the stenographer, to
gether with a motion that such evidence and rulings be made a part of
the record on appeal, and it shall thereupon be the duty of the court
to certify a statement of the evidence and rulings, and cause the same
to be made and printed as a part of the record on appeal. The supreme
court of errors shall examine the whole record, so printed on appeal,
and decide any question that may arise thereon; and if it shall appear
from an examination of the entire record that the finding of the judge
does not properly present the facts and rulings, it shall correct such
finding, so that the same shall properly present such facts and such
rulings ; and for the purpose of such correction it shall not be necessary
to make any special motion, but the claim of the appellant for such cor
rection may be presented in the assignment of errors, in the same way as
questions of law are now presented. The clerk need not print as a part
of said record any portion of the stenographer's minutes which the
parties to the case shall agree in writing is not necessary to be printed,
or which the court shall direct not to be printed, and the expense of
printing the evidence shall be paid and taxed as provided in § 796. Said
judge may for due-cause shown extend the time for filing said copies and
motion. The method herein provided for a correction of the record shall
be treated as an extension of and an addition to the other methods
prescribed in this chapter.

§ 798. Form Of appeal. Every appeal shall be substantially in
accordance with the following form :
A. B. County,
vs. Court,
C. D. day of , 19—
Plaintiff's (or Defendant's) Appeal.
In the above-entitled cause the plaintifff (or defendant) appeals
from the judgment of said court to the (state the court, and the
time and place of holding it), for the revision of the errors which
he claims to have occurred in the trial thereof; and for reasons of
said appeal he assigns the following:
1. (State the special errors complained of distinctly.)
He thereforee prays for such relief as is provided by law in the
premises.
A. B., by E. P., his attorney.
I certify that the foregoing appeal was filed on the
day of , A. D. 19— ; and G. H. of H. is recognized in
the sum of dollars, conditioned that the said A. B.
shall prosecute said appeal to effect, and pay all costs therein if he
shall fail to do so ; and said appeal is hereby allowed.
Clerk.

§ 799. Stay Of execution. In all such cases execution shall be
stayed for one week after final judgment; if a notice of appeal be filed
within said time, execution shall be further stayed until the expiration
of the time hereinbefore fixed for filing the appeal, and if such appeal
be so filed, then execution shall be stayed until the final determination
of said cause; but in any case where the judge trying the same is of
opinion that the appeal is taken only for delay, or that the due administra
tion of justice requires it, such judge may order execution to issue at
any time upon motion and hearing.

§ 800. Correction of appeal by supreme court, if any appeal
to the supreme court of errors shall not present the question or questions
of law decided by the court below, the party aggrieved thereby may apply
to said supreme court of errors to rectify the same ; and if, upon inquiry
by said court, it shall appear that said appeal does not present said
question or questions, said court shall correct it, and shall then proceed
with it as corrected.

§ 801. Application to rectify appeal; depositions, whenever a
party wishes to apply to the supreme court of errors to rectify an appeal
in any case not presented upon exceptions taken under the provisions
of § 795, it shall be his duty to give notice in writing to the adverse
party or his counsel, twelve days before the sitting of said court, that
such application will be made, stating the alteration intended to be
made; and such application shall be made at the opening of the court
on the first day of the term. Unless such notice be given the right to
make such application will be considered as waived. The court or
judge allowing such appeal may at any time before or during the
argument upon said appeal rectify any mistake or omission in the same,
giving timely notice thereof to the counsel. Such applications to the
supreme court of errors will not be heard upon testimony taken in
court, but only on depositions taken by the party offering the same, after
having given reasonable notice to the opposite party or his counsel of
the time and place of taking the same, that the latter may have an
opportunity of cross-examination; nor shall such an application be
entertained unless the party making it has, previous to the notice thereof
to the opposite party, requested the court or judge allowing the appeal
to make the correction applied for. None but a printed or written
argument shall be received from either party on such an application to
said court.

SEC. 95. An act concerning records
in the Supreme COUrt Of errors. The records in any case pending
before the supreme court of errors shall be printed and delivered, to the
respective attorneys of record in such case at least two weeks before
the opening of the term of said court in the judicial district in which
said case is to be heard ; and if said record shall not have been so printed
and delivered, said case shall, upon the written request of either party

thereto, be continued to the next term of said court to be held in said
judicial district.
§ 802. Action of supreme court on appeals, if the supreme
court of errors shall find errors in the rulings or decisions of the court
below, it shall reverse the judgment or order a new trial, unless such
errors are immaterial or such as have not injuriously affected the ap
pellant; but the court shall not be bound to consider any errors on an
appeal, unless they are specifically stated in the reasons of appeal, and
unless it also appears on the record that the question was distinctly
raised at the trial and was decided by the court adversely to the appel
lant's claim, or that it arose subsequent to the trial.

§ 803. Several issues; new trial to be limited, if several issues
are presented by the pleadings, and on the trial of one or more of said
issues an error or ground for a new trial intervenes, which does not affect
the legality of the trial or disposition of the other issue or issues, judg
ment shall not be arrested or reversed, nor a new trial granted, except
so far as relates to the particular issue or issues in the trial of which
such error or ground for a new trial intervened.

§ 804. Appellee may file bill of exceptions when. Within five
days after the allowance of an appeal, the adverse party may file his bill
of exceptions to any decisions of the court in the course of the trial, or
in the charge to the jury, which were against him; and if the trial
court shall be of opinion that the same questions will arise again if a
new trial should be had, such bill of exceptions may be allowed, and the
questions arising thereon shall be considered by the supreme court of
errors in connection with those presented by the appeal, and the opinion
of said court expressed thereon, in case a new trial is advised.

§ 805. Verdict against evidence; new trial denied; appeal.
If a motion for a new trial in any civil cause tried to the jury in the
superior court, court of common pleas, district court of Waterbury, or
any city court, is made on the ground that the verdict was against the
evidence, and denied, the party making said motion may, within six days
after the entry of judgment on the verdict, appeal from the denial of
such motion to the supreme court of errors, and the trial court shall
thereupon certify to the supreme court of errors all the evidence in
said cause, and make it a part of the record ; and if said court shall be
of opinion that the verdict was against such evidence, it shall grant a
new trial. The provisions of § 79G as to the expense of printing evi
dence, and as to the taxing of such expense in whole or in part in the
costs, shall apply to appeals taken under this section.

§ 806. Setting aside verdict; appeal. Whenever any court
shall set aside a verdict of a jury in a civil cause, upon the ground that
it is against the evidence, the party in whose favor said verdict was
rendered may appeal from the decision setting aside such verdict to the
supreme court of errors, in the manner prescribed in this chapter, and
the court shall report all the evidence in said cause to the supreme court
of errors, and make it a part of the record without expense to the ap
pellant for printing the evidence, and if said court shall be of opinion
that such decision setting aside the verdict was erroneous, it shall re
verse such decision and order judgment to be entered upon said verdict
in the lower court in favor of the party for whom said verdict was
rendered; and all further proceedings in the cause shall be stayed until
the decision of said supreme court of errors on such appeal. The pro
visions of § 804 shall apply to an appeal taken under this section, and
if material error is found upon the appellee's bill of exceptions, the
supreme court of errors shall not order judgment to be entered on the
verdict, but in lieu thereof shall order a new trial of the cause. If no
bill of exceptions is filed, the appellee will be deemed to have waived all
objection to any rulings and instructions of the trial court which were
adverse to him, and will not be permitted to appeal, upon that ground,
from the judgment that may subsequently be entered upon the original
verdict.

§ 807. Appeal from decision of judge; stay of execution.
When the jurisdiction of any matter or proceeding is or shall be vested
in a judge of the superior court, or in a judge of any court of common
pleas, or of the district court of Waterbury, any party to such matter or
proceeding who feels aggrieved by any of the decisions or rulings of such
judge upon any questions of law arising therein, may appeal from the
final judgment of said judge in such matter or proceeding, in the man
ner hereinbefore provided for an appeal from the judgments of said
courts respectively, to the supreme court of errors next to be held in the
judicial district where the parties or any of them reside; but in cases
of appeal from the appraisal of damages in laying out any street, or in
making any improvement or public work in any city, village, or borough,
upon paying to the person or persons entitled thereto damages appraised
therefore, or upon depositing the same in the manner provided by law,
and in cases where no damages shall be appraised, such city, village, or
borough may immediately proceed to lay out and open such street, or
make and complete such improvement or public work in the same man
ner as if no appeal had been taken; and in proceedings on writs of
habeas corpus the judge may, at his discretion, decline to order stay of
execution.

§ 808. Appeal from decision of a judge of superior court.
In all trials before a judge of the superior court of matters that might
have been brought to such court, if either party shall desire to appeal
from the decision of such judge, and the cause be by law appealable,
notice of appeal shall be filed with the clerk of the court with whom the
decision of said judge is filed, and said appeal shall be proceeded with in
the same manner as if it were an appeal from a decision of the superior
court, and said appeal when made effectual shall be allowed by said
clerk.

§ 809. Remanding Cause; COStS. The supreme court of errors,
after deciding an appeal taken under § 807, or in case of its abandon
ment, shall remand the cause to such judge, to be proceeded with by
him to final judgment; and the whole costs of such proceeding shall
be taxed in favor of the prevailing party, and said judge may issue exe
cution therefore; provided, however, that if, at the time of the decision
upon said appeal, the judge from whose decision said appeal was taken
shall have died, ceased to hold office, or become incapable of performing
his duties as such judge, said court shall remand said cause to the court
wherein the decision of said judge was filed, and said court shall pro
ceed to final judgment thereon and issue execution for the costs thereof
in the same manner as if said cause had been tried and decided by said
court.

§ 810. Release of stay of execution, if the supreme court of
errors shall, upon any appeal, advise that no new trial be granted, or
decide that there has been no error, any judge of said court may release
any stay of execution which may have been granted by the court below,
by giving to its clerk a written order to that effect, who shall file it with
the papers in said cause, and thereupon issue such execution.
§ 81 1. Judgment on reversal by supreme court; costs. When
a judgment shall be reversed by the supreme court of errors on a writ
of error or appeal, it may render judgment in favor of the plaintifff in
error, or appellant, to recover of the defendant the damages he has
sustained by such erroneous judgment, together with his costs on the
writ of error or appeal; or may remand the cause to the court below to
be proceeded with by said court to final judgment; in which case the
whole costs, except the costs on the writ of error, or appeal, shall be
taxed in favor of the prevailing party; and the costs in the supreme
•court of errors shall be taxed in favor of the plaintifff in error, or ap
pellant. When the judgment is affirmed, or the appellant or plaintifff in
error suffers a nonsuit, or withdraws the cause, costs shall be adjudged
to the defendant in error or appellee; provided, that the fee of twenty
dollars to the prevailing party, and that for printing briefs, shall be in
the discretion of the court, upon the reservation of a cause for its ad
vice,, or when a new trial is granted, and that all costs shall be taxed at
its discretion in cases brought for equitable relief.

§ 812. Retiring judge; unfinished matters. Any judge of the
superior court or of any court of common pleas, district court of Waterbury,
or city court, may, after ceasing to hold office as such judge, settle
and dispose of all matters relating to appealed cases, including findings
on appeals and making up, certifying and correcting records in appealed
cases, as well as any other unfinished matters pertaining to causes there
tofore tried by him, in as full a manner as if he were still such judge.

§ 813. Cases to remain on docket; notice of judgment, ah
cases appealed, as hereinbefore provided, shall remain on the docket of
the court where they were tried until the appeal be decided. Whenever
judgment is rendered, the clerk shall forthwith notify the counsel on
both sides.


§ 814. Pleas in abatement in the supreme court. All pleas
in abatement in the supreme court of errors must be filed in duplicate
with the clerk of such court not later than the Friday preceding the
first day of the term, one copy of which the clerk shall forthwith transmit
by mail to the opposite party or his counsel of record.

§ 815. Causes for which new trials may be granted. The
superior court, court of common pleas, district court of Waterbury, and
any city court, may grant new trials of causes that may come before them
respectively, for mispleading, the discovery of new evidence, want of
actual notice of the suit to any defendant, or of a reasonable opportunity
to appear and defend, when a just defense in whole or part existed; or
for other reasonable cause, according to the usual rules in such cases.

§ 816. New trial Of justice SUit. When a judgment shall be
rendered by a justice of the peace against a defendant who is absent from
the state till after the time of trial, and has no notice of the suit, he may,
within six months after his return to the state, bring a complaint to
the court in the county where the judgment is rendered, to which an
appeal from such judgment might have been taken, for a new trial ; which
court may grant the same, and proceed to final judgment therein, if the

defendant shall make it appear that the. judgment was wrongfully ob
tained against him, and that he had good ground of defense.
SEC. 62. An act concerning new
trials in civil actions. Death of judge before making finding.
Whenever final judgment has been rendered in any cause in the superior
court, court of common pleas, or district court of Waterbury, or in
any city court, an appeal from which lies to the supreme court of
errors, and a notice of appeal from such judgment has been filed, if
the judge who heard such cause shall die or become incapable of mak
ing a finding for the purpose of an appeal, any party to such cause
against whom the judgment has been rendered may make a motion
in writing, in said court, for a new trial. Said motion may be filed
either at the term in which judgment may have been rendered or in
any subsequent term, and shall be filed in said court within ten days
after the death or incapacity of the judge shall have become known to
the party appealing from said judgment. A statement of the errors
which it is claimed occurred in the trial of said case shall be made
as a part of said motion. Upon the filing of said motion the court
shall hear the same, and if in its opinion the errors claimed to have
been committed are of such a nature as fairly entitle the party appeal
ing to a review of said assignment of errors by the supreme court, a
new trial shall be granted.*
§ 817. Writs of error from judgments of a justice. Writs of
error may be brought from judgments of justices of the peace, rendered
in the towns of Waterbury, Cheshire, Middlebury, Naugatuck, Plymouth,
Prospect, Southbury, Thomaston, Watertown, Wolcott, and Woodbury,
to the district court of Waterbury, or to the court of common pleas in
the county in which those towns respectively are situated, and from judg
ments of justices of the peace rendered in any other town, to the court of
common pleas in the county in which such town is situated, or if there
be no such court, to the superior court in that county.
§ 818. Writs of error for errors in fact, or fact and law.
Writs of error for errors in matters of fact, or in which errors in matters
of fact and in matters of law are joined, may be brought from the judg-ments and decrees of the superior court, court of common pleas, and of
any city court, to the superior court in the county in which such judg
ments are rendered or decrees passed, and from the judgments and
decrees of the district court of Waterbury, to the superior court in the
county of New Haven, sitting at New Haven or Waterbury.
§ 819. Writs of error in matters of law only. Writs of error
for errors in matters of law only may be brought from the judgments
of the superior court, court of common pleas, and any city court, to the
supreme court of errors in the judicial district or county where the judg
ments are rendered, and from the judgments of the district court of
Waterbury, to the supreme court of errors sitting in the third or in the
first judicial district, at the election of the plaintifff in error.
§ 820. Writs of error; joinder of law and fact. Matters of
fact and matters of law may be joined in any writ of error which is re
turnable to a court having jurisdiction of both errors of fact and law.
§ 821. Writs of error, how signed and allowed, ah writs of
error shall be allowed and signed by a judge of the superior court, court
of common pleas, or district court of Waterbury, or by a judge or clerk
of the court to which, or from the judgment or decree of which, the same
shall be brought; and the authority signing such writ shall, before its
issue, take good and sufficient bond, with surety, that the plaintifff in
error shall prosecute his suit to effect, and answer all damages if he
fail to make his plea good.

§ 822. Service and return of writs of error. Writs of error
shall be served and returned as other civil process, except that if any
defendant in error live out of the state it shall be sufficient service upon
him to leave a true and attested copy of the writ with, or at the usual
place of abode of, the attorney who appeared for him in the original
cause; on writs of error brought to reverse a decree in favor of several
petitioners for a highway, it shall be sufficient to make service by read
ing or copy, upon any one of the first three signing petitioners, without
any further service on any other defendant in error.

§ 823. Reversal on writ of error; re-entry of action; costs.
If a judgment or decree shall be reversed by the superior court, court
of common pleas, or district court of Waterbury, on a writ of error,
either party may, unless the judgment shall be reversed on a principle
which shows that the action cannot be sustained, enter the action in
said court, where it shall be proceeded with and tried in the same man
ner as in the tribunal whose judgment is reversed, and when any judg
ment is reversed on account of any defect or informality in the writ or
pleadings, such defect or informality may be amended at the discretion
of said court, and the whole costs in said action, excepting the costs on
the writ of error, shall be taxed in favor of him who shall recover final
judgment; and the costs on the writ of error shall be taxed in favor of
the plaintifff in error. If the action shall not be so entered by either
party, the plaintifff in error shall recover judgment for his damages by
said erroneous judgment or decree, together with hie costs on said writ
of error.

§ 824. Judgment on affirmance or withdrawal of writ of error.
When a judgment or decree shall be affirmed, on a writ of error, or if the
plaintifff in error shall suffer a nonsuit, or withdraw the cause, the court
having cognizance of the same shall render judgment in favor of the
defendant in error to recover his costs.

§ 825. Execution pending writ of error, if, on application,
during the pendency, of any writ of error, by the defendant in error, to
a judge of the supreme court of errors, and reasonable notice thereof to
the plaintifff in error, it shall appear to such judge that there is no
reasonable or probable cause for the allowance of such writ, he may
order, upon such terms as he shall consider reasonable, that the levy of
the execution on the judgment upon which such writ is brought shall
not be further suspended by reason of the pendency of the writ.

§ 826. Attachments when granted. Attachments may be
granted upon all complaints containing a money demand, against the
estate of the defendant, both real and personal, and for want thereof
against his body when not exempt from imprisonment on the execution
in the suit; but no attachment shall be granted against the body, unless
each cause of action in the complaint be such that execution may issue
against the body of the defendant upon a judgment founded thereon.

§ 827. Service of writ of attachment, a writ of attachment
shall" be served by attaching the estate of the defendant, personal or
real, or both, and, if none can be found, by attaching his person when
liable to attachment. When the body of the defendant is attached, the
officer shall read the writ and complaint in his hearing; and, in every
case of attachment, the officer serving the process shall leave with the
person whose estate or body is attached, or at the place of his usual abode,
if within the state, a true and attested copy of the process and of the
accompanying declaration, and of his return thereon, describing any
estate attached.


§ 828. Attachment against nonresidents. When the defendant
is not a resident or inhabitant of this state, and has estate within the
same which is attached, a copy of the process and complaint, with a
return describing the estate attached, shall be left by the officer with the
agent or attorney of the defendant in this state; and when land is
attached, a like copy shall be left in the office of the town clerk of the
town where the land lies; and if the defendant has no agent or attorney
within this state, a like copy shall be left with him who has charge or
possession of the estate attached.

§ 829. Attachment Of real estate. Real estate shall be attached
by the officer by lodging in the office of the town clerk of the town in
which it is situated a certificate that he has made such attachment, which
shall be indorsed by the town clerk with a note of the precise time of
its reception, and kept on file, open to public inspection, in the office of
said town clerk; and said attachment, if completed as hereinafter pro
vided, shall be considered as made when such certificate is so lodged.
The certificate shall be signed by such officer, shall describe the land
attached with reasonable certainty, and shall specify the parties to the
suit, the authority issuing the writ, the court to which the process is
returnable, and the amount of damages claimed; and the officer shall,
within four days thereafter, leave in the office of such town clerk a
certified copy of the process under which the attachment was made,
with an indorsement of his doings thereon ; and unless the service shall
be so completed, such estate shall not be holden against any other creditor
or bona fide purchaser.

§ 1852. Attachment Of real estate. When any real estate shall
be attached, the town clerk in whose office the certificate of attachment
is left, shall record it, or the names of each party to the suit, the amount
of damages claimed in the complaint, with the description of said at
tached estate as set forth in said certificate of attachment, in a book
kept for that purpose; and his fees for this service shall be paid to him
by the plaintifff in the suit and be included and taxed with the officer's
fees in said suit.
§ 830. Attachment of leasehold interests. Leasehold interests
in real estate, oyster lots or beds, franchises issuing out of real estate,
and any interest in buildings owned by one person on the land of another,
may be attached in the same manner as real estate.
§ 831. Attachment effective without removal of property,
When. Attachments of machinery, engines, or implements, situated and
* used in any manufacturing or mechanical establishment, or of the house
hold furniture of any person having a family, and used by him in
housekeeping, or of hay or unthreshed grain deposited in any building,
or of any crop deposited in any building, or of brick in kilns, or of wood,
sawed lumber, railroad ties, or logs when gathered together in piles which
cannot, in the opinion of the officer levying upon the same, be moved
without manifest injury, shall be effectual to hold the same, without any
removal thereof; provided the service of such attachment shall be com
pleted and a copy of the process and of the accompanying complaint,
with the officer's return endorsed thereon, particularly describing the
property attached, shall be filed in the office of the town clerk of the town
in which such property shall be situated, within twenty-four hours after
such attachment shall have been made; and when the levy is upon any
such hay, unthreshed grain, crops, or brick, the officer shall also post a
notice of his attachment on the outer door, or other conspicuous place,
of the building in which such property is situated.

§ 832. Attachment of fixtures of telegraph or electric com
panies. The fixtures of every telegraph, telephone, or electric light or
power company, or association engaged in distributing electricity by wires
or similar conductors, including its wires, posts, cross-bars, lamps,
switch-boards, piers and abutments, may be attached in the same manner
and with the same legal effect as real estate in civil actions, by the officer
lodging in the office of the secretary of this state a certificate that he has
made such attachment, which shall be indorsed by the said secretary
with a note of the precise time of its reception, and kept on file, open
to public inspection, in said office; and said attachment, if completed
as hereinafter provided, shall be considered as made when such certificate
is so lodged. The certificate shall be signed by such officer, shall describe
the termini of the line or lines, and the location of the switch-boards
attached, with reasonable certainty, and shall specify the parties to the
suit, the court to which the process is returnable, and the amount of
damages claimed; and such officer shall, within four days thereafter,
leave in the office of the said secretary a certified copy of the process
under which the attachment was made, with an indorsement of his
doings thereon ; and unless the service shall be 'so completed, the property
shall not he holden against any other creditor or bona fide purchaser.
§ 833. Attachment of corporate rights or shares. Rights or^
shares in the stock of any corporation, together with the dividends and
profits due and growing due thereon, may be attached, and taken on
execution. Such attachment shall be made by leaving a true and at
tested copy of the process, and of the accompanying complaint or declara
tion, with the proper indorsement thereon, of the officer serving the same,
as in other cases, with the defendant, or at his usual place of abode, if
within this state, and with the secretary, clerk, or cashier of such cor
poration, or if such corporation has no secretary, clerk, or cashier, or
if he is absent from this state, then at the principal place in this state
where such corporation transacts its business or exercises its corporate
powers; and such rights or shares, together with the dividends and
profits, shall be holden to respond to the judgment which may be re
covered in said action, for sixty days only after its rendition; and when
an officer with a writ of attachment shall apply to such secretary, clerk,
or cashier, for the purpose of attaching such rights or shares, the secre
tary, clerk, or cashier shall furnish him with a certificate, under his
hand, in his official capacity, specifying the number of rights or shares
which the defendant holds in the stock of such corporation, with the
encumbrances thereon, if any, and the amount of dividends thereon due.

§ 834. Attachment of property purchased on condition. Any
property sold upon condition and put by the vendor into the visible pos
session of the vendee, unless otherwise exempt from execution, may be
attached and levied upon and sold or set out on execution in any suit
against such vendee, subject to the rights of the vendor to its possession
or ownership. The party attaching or levying shall have the same
rights which the vendee would otherwise have had to tender to the vendor
performance of the conditions of sale ; and all parties deriving title under
the execution shall succeed to all the rights of the vendee in relation to
such property.
§ 835. Disclosure by vendor of claim on the property. Such
attaching or levying creditor may summon said vendor to appear before
the judge of the court or justice of the peace before whom the suit shall be
or may have been pending, to disclose fully on oath what claim he has
on said property, which summons shall be signed by such judge or justice,
be returnable at such time and place as he may appoint, and be served
as other civil process, at least six days before such time. If such vendor
shall be absent from the state when such summons shall be served, such
judge or justice shall make a reasonable order of notice to him; and
if such summons shall have been duly served, and such order, if any,
duly complied with, and such vendor shall fail to disclose as aforesaid,
such neglect shall be prima facie evidence that he has no interest in said
property.

§ 836. An act concerning assignment of wages and salaries.
Section 1. No assignment of future earnings made as security for
a loan or other indebtedness shall be valid unless the amount of such
indebtedness shall be stated therein, together with the rate of interest
to be charged thereon, nor unless the term for which such earnings are
assigned shall be definitely limited in the assignment, nor unless such
assignment shall bear a dated certificate of acknowledgment of the as
signor made before a proper authority.
Sec. 2. No such assignment shall be valid against an attaching
creditor of the assignor unless, in addition to the provisions of the
preceding section, such assignment shall be recorded before such at
tachment in the town clerk's office in the town where the assignor resides,
or, if he resides without the State, in the town where the employer resides,
and a copy thereof left with the employer from whom the wages are to
become due.
Sec. 3. All certificates of acknowledgment required under section one
of this act shall bear date of the day such acknowledgment is made,
and any person who shall intentionally date such a certificate of acknowl
edgment as of a date other than the actual date such acknowledgment is
made, shall be fined not more than twenty-five dollars, or imprisoned
for not more than thirty days, or both.
§ 837. Income of trust fund liable to creditors. Whenever
property is given to trustees to pay over the income to any person, and
there is no provision for accumulation, and the trustees are not expressly
authorized to withhold such income, and the income is not expressly
given for the support of the beneficiary or his family, such income shall
be liable in equity to the claims of all creditors of such beneficiary.
§ 838. Trustees to pay over net income when. Any creditor
of such beneficiary may bring an action against him, and any court having
jurisdiction may direct such trustees to pay over the net income derived
from such trust estate to such creditor, as the same may accrue, until
his debt is satisfied.
§ 839. Fund for support; surplus how reached. When any
such trust is expressly provided to be for the support of the beneficiary
or his family, a court of equity having jurisdiction may make such^order
regarding the surplus, if any, not required for the support of the bene
ficiary or his family, as justice and equity may require.
§ 840. Expenses of trustee to be allowed him. The defendant
trustee in any such action shall be entitled to charge, in the administra
tion account of said trust, such expenses and disbursements as the court
to which said action shall be brought shall determine to be reasonable
and proper.
§ 841. Attachment of property of voluntary association.
The property of a voluntary association, whether held by it or by trustees
for its benefit, may be attached and held to respond to any judgment
that may be recovered against it; but the individual property of its
members shall not be liable to attachment or levy of execution in actions
against such associations.
§ 842. Attachment of live stock and perishable property.
When any live stock, or other personal property in its nature perishable,
or liable to depreciation, or the custody and proper preservation of
which would be difficult or expensive, shall be attached, either party to
the suit may apply to any judge of the superior court, court of common
pleas, or district court of Waterbury, or to a judge of any city court in
actions brought before it, or to a county commissioner residing in the
county where such property was attached, for an order to sell the same,
and thereupon, after such reasonable notice to the adverse party as said
judge or commissioner shall direct, and upon satisfactory proof that
such sale is necessary and proper, and payment of his fees by the party
making said application, he may order such property to be sold by the
officer who attached the same, or, in case of his inability, by the sheriff
of the county, or by any of his deputies, or any indifferent person who
may be requested in writing so to do by said attaching officer, at public
auction, at such time and place, and upon such notice, as said judge or
commissioner shall deem reasonable; and he may, at his discretion,
order the officer making such sale to deposit the avails with the justice
before whom or the clerk of the court to which said process is returnable,
subject to the order of the court having final jurisdiction of said cause.
§ 843. Procedure on sale of attached property, when the
plaintifff intends to make application for such a sale, the property shall
be appraised by three disinterested freeholders of the town where it was
taken, to be chosen, appointed and sworn, and to make their return to
the officer, in the same manner as appraisers of real estate taken by
execution; a certificate of which appraisement, signed by at least two
of them, shall be presented to the judge or commissioner to whom the
plaintifff shall apply for such order of sale; and before any order shall
be made upon application of the plaintifff, he shall give bond, with
surety, to the adverse party, to the acceptance of said judge or commis
sioner, in double the amount of the value of said property, conditioned
that he shall prosecute his action to effect and pay all damages which
the adverse party may sustain by the sale of said property at less than
its appraised value, with interest thereon.

§ 844. Costs and expenses of appraisal. The costs of the ap
praisal shall be paid by the officer, and charged in his fees; and the
expenses, thus incurred by either party, shall be taxed as part of the costs
in the cause; and the officer who serves said writ shall make return of
what has been done in the premises, to the court to which said writ is
returnable.
§ 845. Disposition of avails of attachment sale. if the suit
upon which such property was attached shall be decided in favor of the
defendant, the money accruing from the sale of such property shall be
paid to him; but if decided in favor of the plaintifff, said money, or so
much thereof as will satisfy his claim, shall be paid to him; and if the
property attached shall have been subject to more than one attachment,
the money shall be paid to the several attaching creditors, in like order
and proportion as the proceeds would have been payable in case of sale
on execution; and the court which renders final judgment in the suit
may make the necessary orders therefore.
§ 846. Avails of attachment sale may be attached. After the
money accruing from tho sale of the property attached has been paid to
the clerk of the court or justice of the peace, any creditor may attach
it, by leaving a copy of his attachment, with an indorsement of the
service thereon, with such clerk or justice of the peace, and a like copy
with the defendant, if within this state; in which case, the sum which
such creditor shall recover shall be paid to him, under the order of the
court, out of the surplus which shall be left after deducting all previous
attachments, in the same manner as if he had attached said property
before the sale.
§ 847. Defendant may take avails of sale on giving bond.
The defendant may, at any time during the pendency of the suit, .take
to his own use the money raised by such sale, upon giving bond to the
plaintifff, with surety, to the satisfaction of the judge or commissioner
who ordered such sale, or of the justice of the peace or court before
which the action shall be pending, if then in session, to refund the
same in the event of final judgment rendered against him, to be
disposed of in satisfaction of such judgment as hereinbefore provided.
§ 848. Discharge from arrest on mesne process. Any defend
ant whose body has been attached on mesne process may apply to any
judge of the court to which the attachment writ is returnable, giving
reasonable notice of the time and place of the application to the plaintifff
or his attorney, for a dissolution thereof; and said judge may, if he is
satisfied that such attachment of the defendant's body is unjustifiable,
dissolve such attachment and discharge him from custody.
§ 849. Dissolution of attachment by substituting bond. When
any estate shall be attached, or any debt or effects taken by process of
foreign attachment, the defendant, if the debt or damages demanded do
not exceed three hundred dollars, may apply in writing to any justice
of the peace in the county where such attachment is made, or, if such
debt or damages exceed three hundred dollars, to a judge of the court
in which such action may be pending, to dissolve the attachment lien
upon the substitution of a bond with surety.
§ 850. Form of application for the dissolution. The applica
tion may be in the following form :
To , a justice of the peace for the county of
(or judge, as the case may be) :
The application of C. D. of , in the county of .
shows that he is defendant in a certain action demanding
dollars, debt (or damages), wherein A. B. of is plain
tiff; in which action, the following estate has been attached, to wit :
by E. F. of (insert the name of the officer),
and that he is desirous that said attachment should be dissolved upon
the substitution of a bond, with surety, according to the statute.
Dated at the dav , 19—.
C. D.
§ 851. Notice of application to dissolve attachment. No at
tachment shall be dissolved until reasonable notice of the application, in
writing, signed by the defendant, or his attorney, shall have been served
upon the plaintifff, or his attorney, and the officer serving the attachment;
and such notice may be in the following form:
To of and of
A. B.) Civil action (or, as the case may be,) Action of
vs. ) returnable to Court, , ,
C. D.) 19—,
Take notice that the defendant will apply to , a jus
tice of the peace of the county of (or judge, etc.) at
on the day of , 19—, at
o'clock in the noon, to dissolve the attachment in this cause,
upon the substitution of a bond, with surety, according to the statute.
Dated at the dav of , 19—.
CD.

§ 852. Amount of attachment bond; hearing as to its suf
ficiency. All persons interested may be heard in relation to the amount
and sufficiency of the bond offered by the defendant. Such amount shall
equal the value of the estate which the process directed to be attached,
unless the action be founded in tort for the recovery of unliquidated
damages, and it shall appear to the authority to whom the application is
made that the amount so required to be attached is excessive, in which
case he may take a bond for such sum as he may deem reasonable.
§ 853. Form Of attachment bond. The bond shall be taken to
the plaintifff, and be substantially in the following form :
Know all men by these presents : That — of
as principal, and of as surety, are
holden and firmly bound jointly and severally unto of
in the penal sum of dollars, to which pay
ment well and truly to be made, we hereby bind ourselves, our heirs,
executors and administrators, firmly by these presents. The con
dition of this obligation is such that, whereas the said
has brought an action against the said , said action being
returnable to the court for county on the
first Tuesday of 190—, demanding dollars
damages, the writ being dated at on the ;—
day of A. D. 190—, and signed by as
, and by direction of said writ an attachment has been
placed upon property of the said as follows:
Now. Therefore, if the said shall pay any judgment
that may be recovered against him in such action, not exceeding
the amount of dollars (the amount of damages de
manded by said writ), or in default of such payment, shall pay to
the officer having the execution issued on such judgment, on demand,
the actual value of the interest of the said in said at
tached property at the time of said attachment, not exceeding said
amount of dollars, then this bond shall be void, but
otherwise in full force and effect.
Dated at this day of 190—.
Seal.

§ 854. Return of application and proceedings. The authority
dissolving the attachment shall certify his doings upon the application,
and forthwith return the application, bond, and other proceedings, to
the court to which the writ is returnable, where they shall be kept on
file.

§ 855. Certificate of dissolution of attachment. The de
fendant, if the attachment dissolved be of real estate, may file with the
town clerk of the town where the real estate is situated, a certificate of
such dissolution signed by the authority making the same; if the at
tachment be of shares in any corporation, he may leave a like certificate
with the officer of the corporation with whom a copy of the attachment
was left in service ; and if the attachment be of debts or effects in the
hands of a garnishee, he may leave a like certificate with the garnishee;
and no such corporation shall be held liable to the defendant for re
fusing to transfer the shares attached, or to pay the dividends due
thereon, and no such garnishee shall be held liable to the defendant for
refusing to pay the debt, or return the effects attached in his hands,
until such certificate shall have been so left.
§ 856. Attachment; new bond may be required. The court
before which any action may be pending, in which such a bond has been
given, may, on application of either party, and due notice to the other,
order that a new bond of some responsible inhabitant of this state be
substituted in lieu and discharge of the original one; and, if said order
be made on application of the plaintifff, may render judgment in his
favor by default, if such substitution be not made within such time as
the court may appoint.

§ 857. Attachment; statement of plaintifff's claim, in every
civil action brought to the superior court, court of common pleas, or
district court of Waterbury, in which the body or estate of a defendant
is attached, any judge of the court in which said action is pending shall,
on application of such defendant or his attorney, cite the plaintifff or
his attorney to appear before said judge at a specified time and place, of
which reasonable notice shall be given in and by said citation, then and
there to state under oath the amount of the plaintifff's claim, and
whether he verily believes the same is justly due, and, if required by
said judge, to furnish a bill of particulars or give a circumstantial
statement thereof. The citation shall be in writing, signed by said
judge, and served by leaving a copy with, or at the usual place of abode
of, the plaintifff or his attorney, such number of hours before the time
named for appearance as said judge shall prescribe.
§ 858. Discharge of excessive attachment. If said judge
shall find that the value of the property attached, or the amount for
which the body is attached, so far exceeds the apparent claim of the
plaintifff as to render the attachment excessive, he shall order the re
lease of so much of the property as is not required to secure the pay
ment of the claim and costs, or the reduction to the same extent of the
amount for which the body is attached. If the plaintifff or his at
torney fails to appear when cited as aforesaid, and the judge is satisfied
that he has had actual notice and does not intend to appear, said attach
ment may be dissolved.
§ 859. Dissolution of attachment; costs of proceeding, if
said attachment is reduced or dissolved, the plaintifff shall, at the dis
cretion of the judge pay the costs of the proceeding , for which costs,
unless the said judge otherwise orders, execution shall forthwith issue,
and if said execution is not paid within ten days after demand, the suit
shall abate. If said attachment is not reduced or dissolved, the de
fendant shall pay like costs to the plaintifff, to be added to the final
judgment, if in his favor, and collected only as a portion thereof.
§ 860. Discharge of attachment; filing of certificate. When
the estate of any person shall have been attached in any proceeding
wherein a certificate of such attachment or a copy of the writ or pro
ceeding is required by law to be filed in the office of the town clerk, and
the plaintifff therein shall have received satisfaction for his claim, or
final judgment shall have been rendered against him thereon, or where
for any reason such attachment shall have become of no effect, said
plaintifff or his attorney, at the request of any person interested in the
estate attached or in having the attachment lien removed, shall lodge a
certificate with such town clerk that said attachment is dissolved and
said lien removed.
§ 861. Penalty for not filing certificate. if any such person so
requested in writing shall willfully neglect or refuse to lodge such
certificate with the town clerk within thirty days thereafter, and after
the necessary expense of filing such certificate shall have been tendered
to him, he shall pay to the person aggrieved ten dollars for each week
of such refusal or neglect, but not exceeding in the whole the sum of one
hundred dollars.
§ 862. Certificate of dissolution on withdrawal of suit. Where
an attachment, such as is set forth in § 860, shall have been made and
the plaintifff shall have withdrawn his suit, or shall have been nonsuited,
or final judgment shall have been rendered against him, or in case said
suit shall not have been returned, or when for any reason said attachment
shall have become of no effect, the clerk of the court to which or the
justice of the peace to whom said suit shall have been made returnable
shall, upon the request of an}' person interested, issue a certificate in
accordance with the facts, which certificate may be filed in the office of
the town clerk, and shall by such town clerk be noted on the margin of
the record where such attachment is recorded.
§ 863. Notice of pendency of action affecting real estate.
The plaintifff in any action in which an attachment is not made on mesne
process, or his attorney, at the time the action is commenced, or
afterwards, or a defendant, when he sets up an affirmative cause of action
in his answer and demands substantive relief at the time the answer is
filed, if the same be intended to affect real estate, may cause to be
recorded in the office of the town clerk of each town in which the property
is situated, a notice of the pendency of the action, containing the names
of the parties, the nature and object of the action, the court to which it
is returnable, and the term, session, or return day thereof, the date of
the process, and the description of the property in such town affected
thereby. From the time of the recording only, shall the pendency of
the action be notice to a purchaser or encumbrancer of the property ; and
every person whose conveyance or encumbrance is subsequently executed
or subsequently recorded shall be deemed to be a subsequent purchaser
or encumbrancer, and shall be bound by all proceedings taken after the
recording of such notice, to the same extent as if he were made a party
to the action. For the purpose of this section an action shall be deemed
to be pending from the time of the recording of such notice; provided,
however, that such notice shall bo of no avail unless service of the process
shall be completed within the time provided by law.

§ 864. Discharge of lis pendens; certificate to be filed. When
the plaintifff in any such action shall have received satisfaction of his
claim, or when final judgment or decree shall have been rendered against
him in said action on such claim, he, or his attorney, shall, at the request
of any person interested in the estate described in the notice, lodge a
certificate with the said town clerk that such action is ended; and such
town clerk shall note said certificate as a discharge of such notice on the
page of the record where the same was recorded. If any person so
requested in writing shall willfully neglect or refuse to lodge such
certificate with the town clerk within thirty days after such request, and
after sufficient proof of such satisfaction shall have been furnished to
him, and the necessary expense of filing such certificate tendered to him,
he shall pay to the person aggrieved ten dollars for each week of such
refusal or neglect.
§ 865. Foreclosure of mortgage or lien on personalty; notice.
The pendency of an action for the foreclosure of any mortgage of, or
lien upon, any personal estate, shall not be notice thereof to any person
who shall acquire an interest in such estate during the pendency of such
action, unless the officer serving the process and complaint therein shall
leave a true and attested copy thereof at the office of the town clerk of
the town in which such mortgage or lien is recorded, at least twelve days
before the return day of such process; and no judgment or decree of
foreclosure obtained in such action, upon any process and complaint of
which a copy shall not be so left at such town clerk's office, shall affect
the rights of any person acquiring an interest in said estate during the
pendency of said action.
§ 866. Duty of officer serving process in such action. The
officer serving the process and complaint in such action shall leave a true
and attested copy thereof at the said town clerk's office at least twelve
days before the return day of said process ; for which he shall be allowed
the same fees as for other copies, and the same shall be taxed with the
other fees in said cause ; and the town clerk at whose office any such copy
may be left shall keep the same on file for the inspection of all persons
having any interest in the estate therein described. The town clerk
shall indorse on all such copies the date of their reception, and shall
plainly number them as they are received, consecutively. He shall also
keep a book in which he shall index said copies, referring to their
numbers, under the plaintifff's name as grantee and the defendant's name
as grantor.
§ 867. Bail when person is arrested on civil process. All
officers and indifferent persons serving writs of attachment shall take
sufficient bail, when offered by any person arrested or held in custody by
them on such process ; which bail shall be one or more inhabitants of thiB
state, of sufficient ability to pay the judgment that may be recovered in
the action, who shall become bound to such officer in a sufficient sum,
conditioned for the appearance of the person so arrested before the court
to which the writ is returnable ; and the person arrested shall theseupon
be liberated from arrest; and when the person so arrested shall be com
mitted to jail, on mesne process, for want of bail, the sheriff having
charge of the jail, at any time before the session of the court to which
the writ is returnable, shall take sufficient bail as aforesaid, when offered,
for the appearance of such person before such court ; and such bail being
given, he shall be released from confinement.

§ 868. Special bail required in order to plead. No defendant
who has so given bail shall, while at large on bail, be admitted to appear
and plead or defend, in such action, until he has in said court, or before
its clerk either in term time or in vacation, given special bail, with
sufficient surety as aforesaid, for his abiding final judgment in the
cause, if the plaintifff require the same.

§ 869. Sheriff tO take bail When. When any defendant, com
mitted to jail for want of bail to the officer, shall remain confined therein
after the term to which the writ is returnable, or when a defendant, com
mitted to jail for want of special bail, shall remain confined therein
after the session of the court, and the action shall be continued, the
sheriff having charge of the jail shall take bail when offered, with suf
ficient surety as aforesaid, for his abiding the final judgment that shall
be rendered in the cause; and thereupon such defendant shall be released
from imprisonment.
§ 870. Liability Of Surety On bail bond. Every surety on any
such bail bond shall be obliged to satisfy the judgment in case of the
principal's avoidance and a return of non est inventus on the execution,
unless on or before the time of entering up final judgment he shall bring
the principal into court and move to be discharged; upon which the
court shall order the keeper of the jail to receive such principal into
custody, that his body may be taken on execution. No security to
prosecute an appeal sball exonerate the special bail in the cause.

§ 871. Actions On bail bond. The party in whose favor the
judgment is given may have a writ of scire facias or other proper action
on the bond against such surety, to recover the sum for which judgment
shall be rendered against the principal, with additional cost; and the
surety shall have his proper action for indemnity against the principal.
§ 872. Assignment Of bail bond. The officer shall assign the
bail bond to the plaintifff on his request, and no action shall be main
tained against the officer who took the bail, unless he shall have taken
insufficient bail, or shall refuse to assign the bail bond to the plaintifff on
request.
§ 873. Rights Of bail or Surety. Any bail or surety who has
entered into a recognizance for the personal appearance of another, and
shall afterwards believe that his principal intends to abscond, may apply
to a justice of the peace in the county in which such principal resides,
produce his bail bond, or evidence of his being bail or surety, and verify
the reason of his application by oath or otherwise, and thereupon such
justice shall forthwith grant a mittimus, directed to a proper officer or
indifferent person of such county, commanding him forthwith to arrest
such principal, and commit him to the jail of such county; and the
keeper of such jail shall receive such principal and retain him in jail
until discharged by due order of law. Such surrender of the principal
shall be a full discharge of the surety upon his bond or recognizance.

§ 874* Recognizance of surety in absence of principal. The
recognizance of any surety, as either common or special bail, shall be
binding upon him, though takon when the principal is not personally
present.
§ 875. Order for attachment on plaintifff's application. The
plaintifff in any action which was or might have been commenced by
attachment, may at any time during its pendency apply in writing to the
court to which, or the justice of the peace before whom, it was brought,
or when such court is not in session, to any judge thereof, for an order
for the attachment or further attachment of the estate of the defendant;
and the court, judge, or justice of the peace, may at its or his discretion
issue such an order, directed to a proper officer, stating the amount to be
attached, and the time of return, which shall not be later than during the
next term or session of such court, or, in case the order be issued by a
justice of the peace, not later than thirty days after, the issuing of the
same; which order shall be served and returned in the same manner as
an original writ of attachment, and, when returned, shall become a
part of the files and record in the action. The estate attached under such
order shall be held to respond to the final judgment or decree, in the same
manner as if attached at the commencement of the action.
§ 876. Order for attachment on application of defendant.
The defendant in any civil action, upon filing a set-off or counterclaim
containing a claim for money damages, may, at any time thereafter dur
ing the pendency of such action, apply in writing to the court or justice
of the peace before whom such action is pending, or when such court
is not in session to any judge thereof, for an order for the attachment of
the estate of the party or parties against whom such claim is made;
and such court, judge, or justice of the peace, may at its or his discretion,
upon such defendant giving bond with surety to prosecute his claim to
effect and answer all damages in case he make not his plea good, issue
such an order, directed to any proper officer, stating the amount to be
attached and the time of return, which order shall be served and re
turned in the same manner as an original writ of attachment, and when
returned shall become a part of the files and records in the action. The
estate attached shall be held to respond to the final judgment in the
same manner as if it had been attached in an action originally brought
for the recovery of the amount claimed in such set-off or counterclaim.
§ 877. Attachment of partnership property for partner's debt.
When any action shall be brought to or pending in the superior court,
court of common pleas, or district court of Waterbury, in which partner
ship property, or any interest therein, shall be attached, to secure a claim
against an individual partner only, any party to the action, or any
member or members of such partnership may file a complaint in the
nature of a bill in equity in such court, and said court may, from time
to time, make such order in the premises, either by granting an in
junction, appointing a receiver, directing as to the disposition of the
partnership property, the collection of the partnership debts, and the
application of the partnership funds, or otherwise, as to equity shall
appertain.
§ 878. Discontinuance of attachment proceedings; security.
Any court or judge.before whom any proceedings relative to the attach
ment of partnership property in a suit against one of the partners may be
pending, may order the same to be discontinued, when security shall be
given to the plaintifff in the original action, satisfactory to such court or
judge, for the payment of the judgment that may be recovered in such
original action, or for the application thereto of an amount not exceed
ing the debtor's interest in the whole partnership property.
§ 879. Duration of attachment liens. No estate which has
been attached shall be held to respond to the judgment obtained in the
suit, either against the debtor or any other creditor, unless the judg
ment creditor shall take out an execution and have it levied on the
personal estate attached, or demand made on the garnishee in cases of
foreign attachment, within sixty days after final judgment, or levied
on the real estate attached, and the same appraised, and the execution
and proceedings thereon recorded, within four months after such, judg
ment; or, if said goods or estate are encumbered by any prior attach
ment, unless the execution shall be so levied within the respective times
aforesaid after such encumbrance is removed ; excepting only in case of
a foreign attachment against an executor, administrator, or trustee in
insolvency, upon whom demand shall be made within the times limited
in § 939, 940, and 941. In reckoning said periods within which the
attaching creditor is so required to take out and levy execution, any time
during which the issue or levy of an execution may be prevented or
stayed by the pendency of a writ of error, or by an injunction or other
legal stay of execution, shall be excluded from the computation.

§ 880. Process of foreign attachment. When the effects of
the defendant in any civil action in which a judgment or decree for the
payment of money may be rendered, are concealed in the hands of his
agent or trustee so that they cannot be found or attached, or where a
debt is due from any person to such defendant, or where any debt,
legacy, or distributive share, is or may become due to such defendant
from the estate of any deceased person or insolvent debtor, the plaintifff
may insert in his writ a direction to the officer to leave a true and at
tested copy thereof and of the accompanying complaint, at least twelve
days before the session of the court to which it is returnable, with such
agent, trustee, or debtor of the defendant, or, as the case may be, with
the executor, administrator, or trustee of such estate, or at the usual
place of abode of such garnishee; and from the time of leaving such
copy, all the effects of the defendant in the hands of any such garnishee,
and any debt due from any such garnishee to the defendant, and any
debt, legacy, or distributive share, due or that may become due to him
from such executor, administrator, or trustee in insolvency, not exempt
from execution, shall be secured in the hands of such garnishee to pay
such judgment as the plaintifff may recover.

§ 881. Citing garnishee to disclose. The plaintifff may insert
in the writ a direction to the garnishee —.except he be described as an
executor, administrator, or trustee in insolvency, in which case he shall
not be so cited in — to appear before the court to which the process is
returnable and there disclose on oath whether he has in his hands the
goods or effects of the defendant, or is indebted to him; and at any
time during the pendency of a foreign attachment suit any garnishee who
might have been so cited in but was not. may be cited by the court to
appear before it, at a time appointed, to make such disclosure.

§ 882. Disclosure by garnishee to officer. The officer serving
process upon any person or corporation named as garnishee shall, at the
time of service, make inquiry as to the amount then owed by said
garnishee to the defendant in &aid action; and if said garnishee shall
thereupon disclose to the said officer whether anything is then owed to
said defendant, and if so, how much, said officer shall then and there in
dorse such disclosure on said process as a part of his return thereon ; and
such disclosure shall excuse said garnishee from appearing, unless there
after summoned as a witness, before the court to which said process is re
turnable, and said court may without further proof find the fact to bo
as shown by such disclosure.

 883. Corporation as garnishee; disclosure; nonappear
ance. If any corporation made a garnishee and cited in to disclose,
was not indebted to, and had no effects of, the defendant in its posses
sion when the complaint was served upon it, it need not appear before
the court to disclose, if it shall cause the affidavit of its treasurer or its
paymaster stating such fact to be filed in said court, on the return day
of the complaint. If such affidavit shall be so filed and the plaintifff
shall bring a scire facias against such corporation upon a judgment
rendered against the defendant in the complaint, and it shall be found
on the trial that the corporation was not indebted to the defendant and
that it did not have his effects in its possession at the time of the service
of the complaint, judgment shall be for the corporation to recover its
costs.
§ 884. Liability of garnishee for not appearing, if any gar
nishee, cited in to disclose before a court held in a town other than that
in which he resides, was not indebted to the defendant, and had no
effects of the defendant in his possession when the writ was served upon
him, it shall be a sufficient excuse for his not appearing before said
court if he file therein on the return day of the writ his affidavit stating
such facts; but if any garnishee, when duly cited in to disclose, shall
fail to appear without reasonable excuse, or shall refuse to disclose on
oath whether he has any effects of the defendant in his possession, or is
indebted to him, then, if the plaintifff shall bring a scire facias against
him on a judgment recovered against the defendant in the suit, judg
ment shall be rendered against such garnishee personally for the costs
accrued on the scire facias, though it shall appear that he had no effects
of the debtor in his possession and was not indebted to him.
§ 885. Disclosure by garnishee. The court may examine upon
oath any garnishee cited in to disclose as to whether, at the time of the
service of the foreign attachment, he had effects of the defendant in his
hands, or was indebted to him, and may hear any' other proper evidence
respecting the same; and if it appear that such garnishee had not
effects of the defendant in his possession, or was not indebted to him, he
shall recover judgment for his costs ; but if it appear that such garnishee
had in his possession effects of the defendant, or was indebted to him,
the court shall ascertain the amount, and the same shall, if the plaintifff
recovers judgment and brings a scire facias against the garnishee, be
prima facie evidence of the facts so found; but the defendant shall
then have a right again to disclose on oath, and the parties may intro
duce any other proper testimony regarding such facts. If the plaintifff,
in such action by foreign attachment, withdraws his suit, or fails to re
cover judgment against the defendant, such garnishee shall be entitled
to judgment for his costs.
§ 886. Service of garnishee process on corporation, when
any corporation engaged in transacting business in any other town than
that in which its secretary or clerk resides, shall be named as agent,
trustee, or debtor, of the defendant, in any action commenced by process
of foreign attachment, service may be made upon such corporation by
some proper officer, by leaving a true and attested copy thereof, at least
twelve days before the process is returnable, with, or at the usual place
of abode of, its secretary or clerk, or any agent or clerk employed by
said corporation to keep its accounts, or pay its employees in the town
where it . transacts business, and where any monies, which may be owing
to the defendant, are due and payable. When the plaintifff shall re
cover judgment in any action so brought and obtain execution for the
same, a demand by the officer serving such execution on, or at the usual
place of abode of, the secretary, agent, or clerk of said corporation with
whom service was originally made, shall be a sufficient demand of said
corporation. 
§ 887. Service on disbursing agent or paymaster of gar
nishee. When any corporation having a disbursing agent or paymaster,
with an office or place of business in this state, shall be named as gar
nishee, service may be made on it by leaving with such agent or pay
master, or at his said office or place of business, or at his usual place of
abode, a duly attested copy of the process in said action, at least twelve
days before the return day thereof.
§ 888. Service on bank or trust company as garnishee.
Whenever a bank, savings bank, or trust company, is named as garnishee,
process shall be served by leaving a copy thereof at the garnishee's prin
cipal office during its regular hours of business, or by leaving such copy
with its treasurer, cashier, or teller.
§ 889. Service on nonresident garnishee. When the garnishee
does not reside in this state, but is engaged in the transaction of business
therein by an agent or agents, process may be served on such garnishee
by leaving a true and attested copy thereof with such agent or agents.
§ 890. Service on partnership garnishees. When a partner
ship, the business of which is transacted by one or more of the partners
exclusively, or by an agent or agents, is named as garnishee, service
may be made upon such partnership by leaving a true and attested copy
of the process with, or at the usual place of abode of, the members of
such partnership, or such acting partner or partners, agent or agents;
and the plaintifff, at any time before final judgment in said suit, may
amend said process, without costs, by inserting the names of the persons
composing said partnership.
§ 891. Subrogation of factorizing creditor, in actions by
foreign attachment the plaintifff shall be entitled to all the security which
his debtor had for the debt or property attached.

§ 892. Attachment of debt evidenced by negotiable note.
When a debt evidenced by a negotiable promissory note shall have been at
tached by process of foreign attachment and the defendant shall have had
actual notice thereof, he shall not negotiate or transfer such note during
the continuance of the attachment lien; and, if he do so, shall be guilty
of fraud upon the attaching creditor, who, if he shall recover judgment
in his original suit, may, within one year after its rendition, institute a
civil action against the defendant for such fraud; but the title of any
bona fide purchaser of such note for valuable consideration, without
notice and before maturity, shall not be affected by this section.
§ 893. Presentation of debt by attaching creditor, when any
debt due or to become due to any person from an estate of a deceased
person in settlement as a solvent estate, shall be attached, the attaching
creditor may, within the time limited for presenting claims • against
such estate, present the debt so by him attached, to the executor x>r
administrator, which shall be a sufficient presentation thereof. When
any debt due or to become due to any person from the estate of a de
ceased person represented insolvent, or from the estate of an insolvent
debtor, shall be attached, the attaching creditor may, within the time
limited for the presentment of claims against such estate, present the
debt, so by him attached, to the commissioners on such estate, and may
appear and be heard in relation thereto, and shall have the same right of
appeal as the defendant; but such presentment and proof of any debt
by an attaching creditor shall inure to his benefit alone, and shall not
prevent such debt from being barred as against the original owner
thereof, if not presented by him.
§ 894. Death of garnishee pending attachment. If any
executor, administrator, or trustee, in whose hands any debt, legacy, or
distributive share, shall have been so attached, shall die or be removed
pending the proceedings either on the original writ or on the scire facias.
upon proper suggestion being made upon the record such proceedings
may be continued against the survivor, or his successor in such trust,
as the case may be, in the same manner as they might otherwise have been
against the original garnishee or garnishees.
§ 895. Levy of execution as a discharge of garnishee. The
taking of any effects or debt by judgment of law out of the hands of an
agent, trustee, or debtor of the owner thereof, by process of foreign at
tachment, shall forever discharge such garnishee.
§ 896. Judgment debt attached; stay of execution, if any
judgment debt be taken by foreign attachment, the issue of the execution
on such judgment, or its levy, if already issued, shall be stayed during
the continuance of the lien of such attachment; and the time during
which such stay is continued shall be excluded in computing the time
within which such execution must be levied in order to preserve any
attachment lien created by or in the original suit.
§ 897. Interest On judgment. Legal interest on the amount of
the judgment shall be collected on the execution issued thereon.
§ 898. Form Of execution. Executions may be of the form fol
lowing :
To the sheriff of the county of , his deputy, or either
of the constables of the town of , within said county,
Greeting: Whereas A. B. of on the day
of , 19—, recovered judgment against C. D. of
, before the superior court holden at within and
for the county of on the Tuesday of
, A. D. 19— (or before E. F., a justice of the peace for
the county of ), for the sum of dollars and
cents debt (or damages), and dollars and
cents, costs of suit, as appears of record, whereof execu
tion remains to be done:
These are, thereforee, by authority of the state of Connecticut, to
command you, that of the goods, or lands of the said C. D., within
your precincts, you cause to be levied (the same being disposed of,
or appraised, as the' law directs), paid, and satisfied unto the said
A. B., the aforesaid sums, being dollars and
cents, in the whole, with interest on the amount of said judgment
from its date, namely, the day of , 19-^-, to
the time when this execution shall be satisfied, with twenty-five cents
more for this writ, and thereof also to satisfy yourself for your own
fees.
(And for want of such goods of the said C. D., to be by him
shown unto you, or found within your precincts, to the acceptance
of the said A. B., for satisfying said sums, you are hereby com
manded to take the body of the said C. D., and him commit unto the
keeper of the jail in , in said county, within said prison ;
who is likewise hereby commanded to receive the said C. D., and him
safely keep, until he pay unto the said A. B. the full sums above
mentioned, and be by him released, and also satisfy your fees.)
Hereof fail not, and make due return of this writ, with your
doings therein. Dated at , this day of
, 19-.
G. H., Clerk (or E. F., Justice of the Peace.)
§ 899. Executions how directed; when returnable. Executions
may be directed to any proper officer, who shall serve and return them
according to the directions therein given ; and, being returned, they shall
be kept on file in the office out of which they issued. All executions shall
be made returnable within sixty days, or to the next court, in case sixty
days are remaining between the next court and the date of the execution,
at the election of him who prays out the same; and all executions
granted by justices of the peace shall be made returnable in sixty days.
All sheriffs and constables may levy any execution to them directed,
within their own precincts.
§ 900. Execution upon unsatisfied judgment of justice. Ex
ecutions may be issued upon any unsatisfied judgment rendered by a
justice of the peace who has ceased to hold office, by any other justice of
the peace residing in the town wherein such judgment was rendered,
for the amount due thereon; but no such execution shall issue unless
the person applying for the same shall exhibit to such justice of the
peace the original files and records in the cause showing the amount of
such judgment and costs.
§ 901 . Levy of execution on personal estate. Executions shall
be granted against the goods, lands, and, when the defendant is liable to
imprisonment on the same, against the body of the debtor; and when any
execution is taken out and delivered to the officer to whom it is directed,
to serve, he shall repair to the debtor's usual place of abode, if within
his precincts, unless he finds him at some other place, and make demand
of the sum due on such execution, with his lawful fees; and, upon re
fusal or neglect of payment, he shall indorse on the execution when
and where he made such demand, and levy the same on the personal
estate of the debtor, not exempted from execution; and on such estate
also, if presented by the debtor. The officer shall advertise and post
such estate, with a particular account thereof, on a signpost in the
town and near the place where taken, to be there sold (unless some other
place is designated by law), at the end of fourteen days, or where the
property levied on is in its nature perishable, or live stock, the custody
and preservation of which would be expensive, at the end of seven days,
specifying the day of the month and the hour when the sale is to take
place; and in computing said time, the day on which the property is
posted shall be included and the day specified for the sale shall be ex
cluded. If the property exceeds one hundred dollars in value, and is
not in its nature perishable, nor live stock, he shall also advertise such
sale in a newspaper published in such town, if any there be, otherwise
in the county in which such town is, not over three times, the first time
to be at least seven days before the day of sale, as computed as aforesaid;
and in case the debtor shall not, within fourteen days, or seven days, as
the case may be, pay the judgment with the interest and all the costs
that have arisen, the officer shall sell, to the highest bidder, such prop
erty, or so much thereof as may be necessary to pay the execution, and
the lawful fees and expenses, and shall return the overplus, if any there
be. to the owner.
§ 902. Levy of execution on intoxicating liquors. Spirituous
and intoxicating liquors may be levied upon and sold on execution in the
same manner as other personal property, without a license; but no
such sales shall be in quantities of less than five gallons.
§ 903. Demand on execution when defendant has left the
State. When execution shall be issued upon a judgment rendered by
the superior court, court of common pleas, or district court of Waterbury,
against a defendant who shall have removed from this state before the
service of such execution, the officer serving the same shall make demand
of payment, and for the goods of the defendant, at the last usual place of
abode of such defendant in this state, if within the precincts of such
officer, and shall also make such demand of his agent or attorney within
his precincts, if such defendant shall have filed or caused to be filed with
the clerk of said court, before the issuing of such execution, a written
notice of the appointment by him of such agent or attorney in that behalf.
§ 904. Sale on execution at other place than signpost. When
an officer shall advertise for sale property taken on warrant or execution,
which cannot be removed to the public signpost without great injury or
expense, or which cannot be there sold without great inconvenience or
injury from exposure to the weather, he may, in his advertisement,
designate some other convenient place, within the town where the prop
erty is taken, at which it may be sold.

§ 905. Adjournment of execution sale. When, at the time and
place advertised for the sale of any property on execution, the officer
who is to sell it is of opinion that it can be more advantageously sold at
some other time or place, he may publicly adjourn the sale to any other
suitable place in the town within which the property was taken, and to
any time not more than ten days distant; and at any such adjourned
time of sale, he may again, and from time to time,» adjourn such sale,
in like manner, if he deem it necessary in order to obtain a fair price for
the property.

§ 906. When indifferent person may conduct execution sale.
Any officer who has advertised property for sale on execution but is
unable to be present at the time and place of sale, may depute any other
proper officer or indifferent person, by an indorsement upon the execu
tion, to act in his stead; and the person so deputed shall have the same
power as to conducting or adjourning such sale, and making return
thereof, as the officer who deputed him.
§ 907. Property exempt from attachment and execution. The
following property shall be exempted, and not liable to be taken by
warrant, attachment, or execution, namely: of the property of any one
person, his necessary apparel, bedding, and household furniture,1 the
arms and military equipments, uniforms or musical instruments owned
by any member of the militia for military purposes, any pension
monies* received from the United States while in the hands of the
pensioner, implements of the debtor's trade,' his library not exceeding
five hundred dollars in value, one cow not exceeding one hundred and
fifty dollars in value, any number of sheep not exceeding ten nor
exceeding in all one hundred and fifty dollars in value, two swine and
two hundred pounds of pork, and poultry not exceeding twenty-five
dollars in value; of the property of any one person having a wife or
family, twenty-five bushels of charcoal, two tons of other coal, two
hundred pounds of wheat flour, two cords of wood, two tons of hay, two
hundred pounds each of beef and fish, five bushels each of potatoes and
turnips, ten bushels each of indian corn and rye, or the meal or flour
manufactured therefrom, twenty pounds each of wool and flax, or the
yarn or cloth made therefrom; the horse of any practicing physician
or surgeon, of a value not exceeding two hundred dollars, and his saddle,
bridle, harness, buggy, and bicycle; one boat,4 owned by one person, and
used by him in the business of planting or taking oysters or clams, or
taking shad, together with the sails, tackle, rigging, and implements
used in said business, not exceeding in value two hundred dollars; one
sewing machine, being the property of any one person using it, or having
a family; one pew, being the property of any person having a family
who ordinarily occupy it; and lots in any burying ground, appropriated
by its proprietors for the burial place of any person or family.

§ 908. Husband's interest in wife's estate exempt when. No
interest of a husband in his wife's property shall be taken by attachment
or execution against him, during the life of the wife or of any child
that is the issue of their marriage, except for debts contracted by him
for the support of herself or of such issue, after his acquiring such
interest.
§ 909.
Exemption of wages, benefits, and insurance monies. So much
of any debt which has accrued by reason of the personal services of
the defendant as. shall not exceed twenty-five dollars, including wages
due for the personal services of any minor child, shall be exempted and
not liable to be taken by foreign attachment or execution ; but there shall
be no exemption of any debt accrued by reason of the personal services
of the defendant against a claim for the defendant's personal board;
provided that in any action founded upon such claim, in which such
debt is sought to be attached by foreign attachment, the complaint shall
set forth only the true cause of action and the amount due thereunder,
so that the garnishee may be informed, from the allegations of the com
plaint, of the real nature and amount of the demand. All benefits al
lowed by any association of persons in this state towards the support of
any of its members incapacitated by sickness or infirmity from attending
to his usual business shall also be exempted and not liable to be taken by
foreign attachment or execution ; and all monies due the debtor from any
insurance company upon policies issued for insurance upon property,
either real or personal, which is exempt from attachment and execution,
shall in like manner be exempted to the same extent as the property so
insured.

§ 910. Levy on goods exempt to a certain amount, when an
execution debtor owns any goods which, if not exceeding a certain amount
in value, are exempt from execution, and the officer levying the execution
believes that their value exceeds the limit of exemption, he may levy
upon and post them for sale in the same manner as any other property.
If, at the sale, such property brings an amount exceeding the limit of
exemption, he shall forthwith, on receipt of the purchase money, pay
over the amount of the exemption to the execution debtor, and apply
the balance only on the execution; but if a sum equal to the amount of
the exemption is not bid for such property, he shall forthwith return the
property to the execution debtor. No money or property belonging or
coming to any execution debtor, under such a levy as is provided for
in this section, shall be liable to attachment.
§ 911. Levy on machinery, furniture, and crops; removal.
When an execution shall be levied upon the machinery, engines, or other
implements, situated in and used by any manufacturing or mechanical
establishment, or upon the household furniture of any persoi having a
family and used by him in housekeeping, or upon the hay or crops de
posited in any building, if there be no mortgage on said property so
levied on, and it cannot, in the opinion of the officer levying upon the
same, be removed without manifest injury, he shall not remove it, but
shall give notice of such levy by posting a notice thereof on the outer
door of the building in which such property is situated; and, in such
case, such property shall be holden by such levy as effectually as if
it had been removed by him.

§ 912. Levy of execution against partnership. No execution
upon a judgment rendered against copartners shall be levied upon any
other than the partnership property, or the individual property of such
defendants as are particularly named in the complaint.

§ 913. Demand on execution against voluntary association.
Demand on execution, upon a judgment rendered against a voluntary
association, may be made on its presiding officer, secretary, or treasurer.

§ 914. Execution against oyster-bed association how levied.
Executions on judgments against a voluntary association of individuals, associated for the purpose of cultivating, improving, and protecting
oysters, may be levied upon any oyster lots or beds owned by any
member or members of any such association, after demand made on such
owner or owners ; and said levy shall be proceeded with in all respects as
though said lot or lots, bed or beds, were personal property.
§ 915. Levy of execution on corporate stock. The levy of an
execution on the rights or shares which any person owns in the stock
of any corporation, together with the interest, dividends, and profits, due
and growing due thereon, shall be by leaving a true and attested copy
thereof with the secretary, clerk, or cashier, with an attested certificate,
by the officer making such levy, that he levies upon such rights or shares
to satisfy such execution; and thereupon such officer shall, as in other
cases, post and sell the same, together with such interest, dividends, and
profits, or such part thereof as shall be sufficient to satisfy such execu
tion; and shall give to the purchaser a written conveyance1 of such rights
or shares; and shall also leave with such secretary, clerk, or cashier, a
true and attested copy of the execution and of his return thereon; and
the purchaser shall thereupon be entitled to all dividends and stock, and
to the same privileges as a member of such corporation as such debtor
was entitled to. When any proper officer shall, with a writ of execution,
apply to such secretary, clerk, or cashier, for the purpose of so levying
upon such rights or shares, the secretary, clerk, or cashier, shall furnish
him with a certificate under his hand, in his official capacity, stating
the number of rights or shares the defendant holds in the stock of such
corporation, with the encumbrances thereon, if any, and the amount of
dividends thereon due ; but when any bank incorporated by this state, or
any banking association located and transacting business in this state,
has no cashier, or the cashier is absent therefrom, or any other corpora
tion incorporated under the laws of this state has no secretary or clerk
therein, then the rights or shares in the stock of any such corporation
may be taken by execution by leaving the copy of the execution and the
certificates, in this section prescribed, at the principal house or place
in this state where such corporation transacts its business or exercises
its corporate powers.

§ 916. Receiver of toll bridge company, if any toll bridge
company incorporated in this state shall neglect or refuse to pay the
amount of a lawful judgment rendered against it, for the period of twenty
days after due demand on execution, the superior court or any judge
thereof shall, upon the written application of the judgment creditor,'
appoint a receiver or receivers for such company, who shall thereupon
take possession of the toll gate or gates of such company and collect the
tolls prescribed by law until the amount thereof shall be sufficient to pay
said judgment and costs, and such further sum for the receiver's services
and disbursements as said court or judge may determine. Said court
or judge shall adjust and settle the receivership accounts and may
direct the receiver to pay over to the judgment creditor the amount of his
judgment and costs; and may make any other order or decree in the
premises as the exigencies of the case may require.
§ 91 7. Levy on interest of one railroad in another's property.
The levy of executions on the equitable right or interest which any
railroad corporation may have in the whole, or any part of the real
estate, right of way, or road bed, of any other railroad corporation, to
gether with the income, rents, and profits which may be due or coming
due thereon, shall be by leaving a true and attested copy thereof with the
treasurer, secretary, or clerk, of said last-named corporation, with an at
tested certificate by the officer making such levy," that he levies upon such
right or interest to satisfy such execution; and thereupon he shall post
the same upon some signpost in the town where such last-named corpora
tion has its office or principal place of business in this state, and, as in
cases of personal property, shall, at vendue, sell the same, together with
such income, rents and profits, or so much of them as shall be sufficient
to satisfy said execution, and shall give to the purchaser a written convey
ance of such right and interest, and shall also leave with such treasurer,
secretary, or clerk, a true and attested copy of such execution, and of his
return thereon ; and the purchaser shall thereupon become entitled to said
right and interest, and to all rents, profits and income thereon, to which
such debtor was entitled.
§ 918. Execution may be levied on the body, when, if personal
estate of the debtor sufficient to satisfy the debt and charges cannot be
found, and the creditor shall not agree to take the debtor's lands, the
officer shall levy the execution on the body of the debtor, unless exempted
by law from imprisonment on said execution, and commit him to the
jail of the county in which the execution is levied, where he shall remain
till he pay the debt and the lawful fees and charges, or be discharged in
due course of law; and every officer who shall commit any person to

prison by virtue of distress or execution, shall deliver an attested copy
of the writ or execution to the keeper of the jail, which shall be a sufficient
warrant to him to hold such person in safe custody until he be delivered
in due course of law. If the debtor, after such levy of execution upon his
body, shall be discharged or released from such imprisonment, or released
by the officer serving the execution, by direction of the creditor, he shall
not be liable to imprisonment again on the judgment upon which such
execution issued, but the same may be collected out of his property.

§ 919. Levy of execution on body for want of bail. When the
body of any person is attached, and for want of bail committed to prison,
he shall not be held in prison by virtue of such commitment longer than
five days after the rising of the court in which final judgment shall be
rendered ; and in case no execution shall be levied upon his person within
said five days, the keeper of the jail, upon his fees being paid, may not
hold such prisoner any longer by virtue of such commitment.

§ 920. Exemption of body from execution. No execution issued
in an action founded on contract merely, express or implied, shall be
levied on the body of the debtor, except in actions founded on promises
to marry, or misconduct or neglect in any office or professional employ
ment, or in actions instituted against a public officer, trustee, or person
acting in a fiduciary capacity, to recover monies received by him; nor
shall any execution issued for costs in an action by summary process be
levied on the body of the defendant.

§ 921. Levy of execution on real estate. when personal estate
sufficient to pay the sum mentioned in the execution and the lawful fees
and charges cannot be found by the officer, or shall not be tendered by the
debtor or his attorney, to be taken on such execution, such officer, by the
direction of the creditor or his attorney, may levy the same on the real
estate of the debtor holden in his own right ; which shall be appraised by
three indifferent freeholders of the town where it lies, or if that town
be a party, then of the next adjoining town, one of whom shall be ap
pointed by the creditor, and another by the debtor, and if they do not
agree in appointing a third, or if either party shall neglect to appoint,
the officer may apply to any justice of the peace in the town who by law
may judge between them in civil causes, who shall appoint one or more
appraisers, as the case may require : which appraisers, being duly sworn,
shall make an estimate of such real estate, according to its true value,
in writing tinder their hands, or the hands of either two of them, and the
same deliver to such officer, who shall thereupon set out to the creditor,
by metes and bounds, so much of the lands as may be sufficient, at the
appraisal, to pay the debt on the execution and the lawful charges, if
sufficient, if not, so much as there may be, to be indorsed in part pay
ment of the execution, according to its value at the appraisal.

§ 922. Levy on real estate of voluntary association. When
an execution shall be levied on real estate owned by a voluntary as
sociation not incorporated, a neglect by its presiding officer or secretary,
or treasurer, to appoint an appraiser, on application of the officer, shall
be deemed the neglect of the association.
§ 923. Return and record of levy on real estate. The officer
levying an execution on real estate shall cause it, with his indorsement
thereon of such appraisal and his proceedings,' to be recorded at length
in the records of the town where the estate lies, and shall then return
such execution into the office of the clerk of the court from whence it
issued, there to be kept on file ; and all executions served, returned and
Tc.corded, as aforesaid, shall vest all the title of the debtor in the
.creditor, his heirs and assigns.

§ 924. Levy on equity in real and personal estate. when an
execution debtor shall own the whole or part of an equity of redemption
in a mortgage of both real and personal estate, the execution creditor may
cause the execution to be levied upon the interest pf the debtor therein ;
and such interest shall be appraised, and the whole or any part thereof
may be set off to the creditor ; and appraisers shall be appointed and all
other proceedings shall be had in the same manner as is by law pro
vided for the levy of executions upon real estate.
§ 925. Levy of execution on lands in different towns. When
any real estate in different towns or counties is owned by tenants in
common or joint tenants, their interest may be levied upon on execution,
by any proper officer who may legally serve civil process in any town in
which a part of said estate is situated, and set out in the same manner as
if the whole of said estate were situated in one town; and such interest
may be appraised by three indifferent freeholders of such towns or
either of such towns, to be chosen and appointed in the same manner as
is provided by § 921.
§ 926. Interested party; appointment of appraisers. When
an execution is levied on real estate, and the town in which such estate
is situated is interested in such execution, if the parties or either of
them shall neglect to appoint or agree upon any appraiser or appraisers,
the officer making the levy may apply to any justice of the peace in the
next adjoining town who may by law judge between the parties in
.ci v i I causes, and he shall appoint one or more appraisers, as the case
may require.
§ 927. Levy on equity of redemption in different towns. When
any real estate in different towns or counties is included in the same
mortgage deed, the equity of redemption in the whole of the mortgaged
premises may be levied upon on execution, by any proper officer who may
legally serve civil process in any town in which a part of said real estate
is situated, in the same manner as if the whole of said mortgaged
premises were situated in one town; and such equity of redemption may
be appraised by three indifferent freeholders of such towns or either of
such towns, to be chosen and appointed in the same manner as is pro
vided by § 921.

§ 928. Charge of illegal fees not to vitiate levy, when an
execution is levied on real estate according to law, except that the officer
has indorsed on said execution and embraced in his levy other and greater
fees than he is entitled to, such levy shall not on that account be rendered
void.
§ 929. Levy Of execution On Oyster-beds. Executions may be
levied on oyster lots or beds, designated and allotted to any person pur
suant to law, in the same manner as upon real estate.
§ 930. Levy On leases and franchises. Leasehold interests in
real estate, franchises issuing out of real estate, and any interest in
buildings owned by one person on the land of another, may be taken
and sold on execution in the same manner as any personal property.

§ 931. Liability of garnishee; scire facias, if judgment be
rendered in favor of the plaintifff in any action by foreign attachment,
all the effects in the hands of the garnishee at the time of the attachment,
or debts then due from him to the defendant, and any debt, legacy, or
distributive share, due or to become due to the defendant from any
garnishee as an executor, administrator, or trustee, shall be liable for
the payment of such judgment; and the plaintifff, on praying out an
execution, may direct the officer serving the same to make demand of
such garnishee for the effects of the defendant in his hands, and for the
payment of any debt clue to the defendant, and such garnishee shall
pay said debt or produce said effects, to be taken and applied on said
execution ; and if he shall have, in any manner, disposed of the effects
of the principal in his hands when the copy of the writ was left with him.
or shall not expose and subject them to be taken on the execution, or shall
not pay to the officer, when demanded, the debt due to the defendant at
the time the copy of the writ was left with him, such garnishee shall
be liable to satisfy such judgment out of his own estate, as his proper
debt, if the effects, or debt, be of sufficient value or amount ; if not, then
to the value of such effectB, or to the amount of such debt. A scire
facias may be taken out from the clerk of the court where the judgment
was rendered, to be served upon such garnishee, requiring him to
appear before such court and show cause, if any he have, to the contrary ;
and the plaintifff may require the defendant, and the defendant shall
have the right, to disclose, on oath, whether he has any of the effects of
the debtor in his hands, or is indebted to him ; and the parties may intro
duce any other proper testimony respecting such facts. If it be found
that the defendant has the effects of such debtor in his hands, or is
indebted to him, or if he makes default of appearance, or refuses to dis
close on oath, judgment shall be rendered against him, as for his own
debt, to be paid out of his own estate with costs; but if it appear on
the trial that the effects are of less value, or the debt of less amount
than the judgment recovered against the debtor, judgment shall be
rendered to the value of the goods, or to the amount of the debt; and if
it appear that the defendant has no effects of such debtor in his hands,
or is not indebted to him, he shall recover costs.

§ 932. Levy of execution on nonresident garnishee. in actions
by foreign attachment in which the garnishee is described as a non
resident, and service is made upon his agent transacting business in his
behalf in this state, the plaintifff, on taking out an execution, may direct
the officer serving the same to make demand of such agent or of said
garnishee, for the effects of the defendant in said agent's hands at the
time of the attachment, and for the payment of any debt then due from
said garnishee to the defendant, and the person upon whom such demand
is made shall produce or pay the same, to be taken and applied on said
execution. If such agent of such garnishee shall have disposed of the
effects of the principal which were in his hands when the copy of the
writ was* left with him, or shall not expose them to be taken on the
execution, or shall not pay the officer, when demanded, the debt due to
the defendant at the time the copy of the writ was left with him, such
judgment may be satisfied out of the estate of said garnishee which he
may own in this state, as his proper debt, if the effects or debt be of
sufficient value or amount, if not, then to the value of such effects or
to the amount of such debt; and a scire facias may be taken out from the
court where the judgment was rendered, as in other cases, on which the
estate of the garnishee may be attached, and which shall be served on the
agent of such garnishee, requiring such garnishee to appear personally
or by his agent, before such court, and show cause, if any he have, to the
contrary ; and the plaintifff may require the defendant, who shall have the
right by himself or his agent, to disclose on oath, whether he has any of
the goods of the debtor in his hands, or in the hands of such agent, or
whether he is indebted to him ; and the parties may introduce any other
proper testimony respecting such facts. If it be found that the. de
fendant has the effects of such debtor in the hands of his said agent, or
is indebted to him, or if he make default of appearance, or refuse to
disclose on oath, judgment may be rendered against him, as for his own
debt, to be paid out of his own estate, with costs, and execution shall be
granted accordingly; if it appears on the trial, that the effects are of
less value, or the debt of less amount, than the judgment recovered
against the debtor, judgment shall be rendered to the value of the goods,
or to the amount of the debt; and if it appears that the defendant has
no effects of such agent, or is not indebted to him, be shall recover costs.
§ 933. Levy of execution when garnishee has left the state.
When the garnishee in any action of foreign attachment shall have re
moved from this state prior to the issuing of the execution in such action,
so that no demand can be made of him in person by the officer serving the
same, the clerk of the court issuing such execution may, at the request
of the creditor or his attorney, indorse thereon an order signed by such
clerk, requiring the officer to whom such execution is directed to make
said demand by letter forwarded by mail, postage paid, addressed to such
garnishee, or in such other manner as said clerk shall direct; and such
demand, when so made, shall be as effectual as if made of the garnishee
personally : but if such garnishee shall have lodged with the clerk of
said court a written notice, under his hand, of the appointment of an
agent or attorney on whom such demand may be made, such officer shall
make the like demand of such agent or attorney, if within his precincts,
and make return thereof on such execution. 

§ 934. Scire facias against nonresident garnishee. if, after
demand made as provided in § 933, a writ of scire facias be issued against
such garnishee, and he still remains without this state, service of said
writ shall be made in such manner as the judge or clerk of the court
rendering judgment in the original suit shall, by a written order thereon
by him subscribed, direct; and by leaving with his agent or attorney,
if any has been appointed by him in the manner provided in §933, a
true and attested copy of the writ; and process so issued and served
shall be as effectual against such garnishee as if served upon him
personally.
§ 935. Scire facias founded on justice judgment, when a
writ of scire facias shall be brought against a garnishee, founded on a
judgment rendered by a justice of the peace, it shall be signed by and be
returnable before said justice, and shall be heard and determined by him,
subject to the right of appeal ; and if he shaU. be removed from office by
death or otherwise before any such scire facias is taken out and returned,
such writ may be signed by and made returnable before any other justice
of the peace, as in other cases.
§ 936. Stay of execution when debt is not payable. When it
shall appear on the hearing of any scire facias, founded on a foreign at
tachment, that the debt due to the principal is not yet payable, the
court shall direct the execution to be stayed until the time the debt would
have become payable ; and when the debt was not payable at the time the
demand was made on the execution, the court shall allow the garnishee
his reasonable costs for defending against such scire facias, to be deducted
out of the debt so due.
§ 937. Scire facias; defense by assignee or claimant. When
a scire facias shall be brought to recover a debt or effects taken by a
foreign attachment, if any person or persons, either jointly or severally,
claim such debt as assignee or assignees thereof, or such effects as owner
or owners thereof, the defendant in such scire facias, having notice or
knowledge of such assignment, ownership, or claim, may give notice in
writing, signed by proper authority, and duly served, to such claimant or
claimants, or his or their attorney, that such scire facias is pending, and
that he or they may appear, if they see cause, and defend against it;
which notice, when the claimant or claimants shall reside out of the
state shall be given in such time and manner as the court, before which
such action is pending, shall direct ; and thereupon, unless such claimant
or claimants shall, within such time as such court may direct, give to
such defendant sufficient security, to the approval of the court, to
indemnify him against all costs, he may suffer judgment to be given
against him on such scire facias, which shall be a bar to the claim of the
assignee or assignees of the debt, or the owner or owners of the effects,
against him for the same. In case such assignee or assignees, owner or
owners, shall give such security, and make effectual defense against the
scire facias, he or they shall be entitled to the costs that shall be re
covered against the plaintifff; but if he or they fail to make an effectual
defense, the judgment rendered on the scire facias against the defendant
shall be a bar to any claim against him by them for such debt or effects.
If, after such security has been given, the defendant, on due notice given
him, shall neglect to appear and disclose on oath, if required, on the trial
of such scire facias, or, in case a commission shall be issued, shall
neglect to make disclosure before the commissioners, he shall take no
benefit by the provisions of this section, nor of such security.

§ 938. Commission to take disclosure of garnishee. The court
before which any scire facias shall be pending may issue a commission to
take the disclosure of the defendant on oath, when, on account of his
living, or being about to go, out of the state, or being unable to travel
through age or infirmity, the court shall judge it to be reasonable.
§ 939. Attachment lien on debt due from solvent estate.
When any debt due or which may become due from the estate of a deceased
person which is settled as a solvent estate, shall be attached, the lien
created by such attachment shall not continue, unless demand is made
of the garnishee upon the execution within sixty days after the rendition
of the judgment, or within sixty days after the expiration of the time
limited for the defendant to present his claim against the estate.

§ 940. Execution; demand for legacy or distributive share.
When any legacy or distributive share due or which may become due from
the estate of a deceased person, shall be attached, the attachment shall
not continue, unless demand is made of the garnishee upon the execution
within sixty days after the rendition of the judgment, or within sixty
days after the time when, if such attachment had not been made, it would
have become the duty of the executor or administrator, in the settlement
of the estate, to deliver to the defendant the legacy or distributive share
to which he is entitled.
§ 941. Execution; demand for debt due from insolvent estate.
When any debt due or which may become due from the estate of a
deceased person which is settled as an insolvent estate, or from the estate
of any insolvent debtor, is attached, the attachment lien shall not
continue, unless demand is made of the garnishee upon the execution
within sixty days after the rendition of the judgment, or within sixty
days after the report of the commissioners allowing the claim of the
defendant shall have been returned to and accepted by the court of
probate; or, if an appeal is allowed on such claim, within sixty days after
the final allowance of such claim.
§ 942. Execution; payment by executor, administrator, or
trustee. When demand shall be made of the garnishee upon the execu
tion, in either of the cases mentioned in § 939, 940, and 941, within the
periods therein specified, the garnishee may pay the debt, or deliver the
legacy, or distributive share, so attached, to the officer making the de
mand, to be applied on such execution; and if at the time of such pay
ment or delivery the garnishee would have been required by law to make
such payment or delivery to the defendant, if there had been no attach
ment, or would have been justified in so doing, he shall be credited for
such payment or delivery to the officer, in his administration account.
§ 943. Scire facias against executor, administrator, or
trustee. If, upon demand so made, the garnishee shall neglect or refuse
to make such payment or delivery, the plaintifff in the foreign attachment
may maintain a scire facias against him as executor, administrator, or
trustee, as aforesaid ; and if the plaintifff recover judgment, no execution
shall be issued, but the defendant may pay upon the same the whole,, or
so much of the monies, or of the value of the effects attached, and for
which he would otherwise have been liable to the original defendant, as
may be necessary to satisfy the judgment; which payment shall be
credited to such executor, administrator, or trustee, in his administration
account; but he shall not be credited with the costs recovered on such
scire facias, unless the court of probate shall be of opinion that he was
justified in incurring the same. If he shall not so pay such judgment,
60 much of the same, including interest thereon from the date when said
judgment is rendered, as shall not exceed the whole of the monies, or
of the value of the effects attached, and for which he would otherwise
nave been liable to the original defendant, and no more, may be recovered
by the attaching creditor in an action on the probate bond, and not
'otherwise.

§ 944. Officer to give items of fees to execution debtor.
Every officer, at any time before the return of an execution collected by
iim, shall sign and give the debtor, on demand and without a fee, a
statement of the items of his fees, the name of the creditor, the date
and amount of the execution, and the court from which it issued ; and in
case he neglects or refuses so to do, he shall forfeit to said debtor three
fold the amount of his fees.
m
§ 945. Completion of levy by officer not re-elected. When any
officer shall not be re-elected or reappointed, all levies of execution which
shall have been begun by him before the expiration of his term of office
may be completed by him in the same manner as though he had remained
in office.
§ 946. Satisfaction of judgment to be entered on record. All
clerks of court to whom an execution may be returned after service shall,
on receipt thereof, note on the margin or immediately after the record
of the judgment upon which it was issued, whether such execution was
satisfied, and, if satisfied in part, to what extent.
§ 947. Examination of judgment debtor. Any judgment debtor,
an execution against whom shall have been returned unsatisfied in whole
or in part, may be examined on oath, within the county wherein he
resides, touching his property and means of paying such judgment, be
fore any judge of the superior court, court of common pleas, or district
court of Waterbury, or before the judge of any town, city, or borough
court, which would have jurisdiction of an action on said judgment,
or before a committee appointed by such judge. Such examination shall
be on questions put by the judgment creditor or his attorney, and may
be ordered on the application of the judgment creditor, by any such
judge, to be had before himself, or some other such judge, or such a
committee, at such time and place as such judge shall appoint, and on
such reasonable notice to the debtor as said judge shall prescribe.
§ 948. Scope of inquiry; debtor not excused from answering.
The debtor shall not be excused from answering any question on the
ground that his answer might tend to convict him of fraud, or show that
he has been party to any fraudulent or illegal conveyance, but his answers
shall not be used against him in any criminal proceeding except in
prosecutions for perjury.
§ 949. Commitment of debtor for contempt. Any judge before
whom any such examination is ordered may commit the judgment debtor
for contempt in case of his neglect or refusal to attend or be sworn at
the examination, or to answer any question put to him during the ex
amination, and any such neglect or refusal, if the examination is ordered
or had before a committee, may be by said committee reported to the
judge by whom he was appointed, which judge may thereupon proceed
for the contempt as fully as if the examination had been ordered or had
before himself.
§ 950. COStS Of examination. The costs of such examination
shall be taxed by the judge ordering the same, and may include an
attorney fee of not exceeding ten dollars, and the fees of the committee,
not exceeding eight dollars a day, if the judge shall be of opinion that
such fees or either of them should be taxed, or, if the examination be
before a judge, his necessary traveling expenses. If the examination
results in the discovery of property, or means of paying the judgment
in full, or to the extent of fifty dollars, then said judge may order said
costs to be added to and become a part of the sums collectible in said
execution.

§ 960. Appointment of a committee in civil actions, in any
civil action pendingln the superior court, court of common pleas, the
district court of Waterbury, or in any city court, in which an issue in fact
has been closed to the court, it may, upon motion of any party to the
record, appoint a committee of one, two, or three disinterested persons
to hear the evidence and report the facts to the court ; but no such com
mittee shall be appointed without the consent of all parties appearing,
unless the court shall, after hearing upon said motion, be of opinion
that the questions involved are such as clearly ought to be sent to a com
mittee. If such action is brought solely for the recovery of a money
demand, such committee may report simply that it finds the issue in
favor of the plaintifff and that he recover a certain sum, or that it
finds the issue in favor of the defendant, as the case may be ; or the com
mittee may, and in all other actions shall, report specifically the facts
relevant to the issue and established by the evidence, and upon the
acceptance of any report judgment shall be rendered thereon according
to law and the facts found.

§ 961. Auditor or committee may be appointed in vacation.
Any judge of the superior court, the court of common pleas, the district
court of Waterbury, or of any city court, may, in vacation, in any cause
pending before said courts, respectively, wherein a reference is proper,
upon the written application of either party, with notice of at least six
days to the opposite party, appoint auditors or a committee in such
cause, and such judge shall forthwith certify such appointment to the
clerk of such court.
§ 962. Auditors in actions involving matters of account.
When in any action not brought before a justice of Jhe peace, it shall be
necessary, by reason of its being brought upon a bond with conditions,
or of any special plea or claim of set-off, to settle any matter of account
which might be the subject of an action for an account, the court may
appoint one or more auditors to adjust and settle such matter of account,
and report their award to the court; but any other issue joined in such
action shall be heard and decided as in other cases.

§ 963. Powers of auditors and committees over witnesses.
Auditors and committees appointed by any court, while engaged in the
trial of the cases which they are appointed to hear, shall have the same
power and authority over witnesses, and the same power and authority
to commit for contempt, that justices of the peace have.
§ 964. Committee vacancies how filled in vacation, if any
auditor, committee, or member of a committee, appointed by any court,
dies, or declines or is unable to act, at any time when the court is not in
session, the parties, or their attorneys, may agree in writing to the ap
pointment of any person to act in his stead; and if they cannot agree,
any judge of said court, upon application of either party, and reasonable
notice to the other, may fill the vacancy ; and upon filing with the clerk
of said court such agreement signed by the parties, or such appointment
signed by the judge, the appointment of the person therein designated
shall be as effectual as if made by said court.
§ 965. Recommittal of incomplete report. Whenever a finding
of facts made and returned to any court by an auditor or a committee
shall, in the judgment of such court or of the supreme court of errors,
be incomplete or insufficient, such court may thereupon, unless objection
is made by all the parties to the action, recommit the cause of action
and the report to the same auditor or committee to complete and perfect
such report and to return the same to the court for acceptance.
§ 966. Judge not to be auditor or committee. No judge whose
salary is paid by the state shall be appointed as an auditor or committee
in any civil action.
§ 967. Auditor or committee elected judge may finish case.
Any auditor or committee who shall be elected judge of any court shall
complete his duties as such auditor or committee in the same manner and
with the same effect as if such election had not been made.

§ 968. An act concerning state referees.
Section 1. It shall be the duty of each state referee to hear and
report to the superior court the facts in such cases as the court, with
the written consent of the parties or their attorneys, may refer to any
one or more of them.
See. 2. No state referee shall receive for hereafter acting as an auditor or committee of any court of this state any fee or compensa
tion other than the salary now allowed by law.

§ 980. Oyer Of defendant's bOOk; COStS. When the defendant,
in an action for a debt due by book to balance book accounts, shall have
made an answer under which any book account in his favor against
the plaintifff may be given in evidence, the court, on motion of the
plaintifff, made in reasonable time, may order that oyer shall be given
to the plaintifff of the book of the defendant, either forthwith, or within
such time as the court may prescribe. If the defendant shall neglect
to exhibit his account, to be adjusted on the trial, and shall afterwards
sue the plaintifff for the recovery of such articles of book debt as might
have been adjusted and settled on said former trial, he shall not be
allowed any costs, unless he make it appear that he had no knowledge
of the former suit before the time of trial, or was inevitably hindered
from exhibiting his account on said trial.
§ 981. Book entries admissible; inspection of plaintifff's
book. In all actions for a book debt, the entries of the parties in their
respective books shall be admissible in evidence. The court in any
such action shall, on motion of the defendant for oyer of the plaintifff's
book showing the transactions upon which such action is based, order
that the defendant, before he shall be required to plead, have such
reasonable opportunity to examine the same as the court shall deem
proper.

§ 4551. Divorces, When granted. The superior court shall have
exclusive jurisdiction of all complaints for divorce, and may grant
divorces to any man or woman for the following offenses committed by
the other party, to wit: adultery; fraixdulent contract; willful desertion
for three years with total neglect of duty; seven years' absence, during
all which period the absent party has not been heard from; habitual
intemperance; intolerable cruelty; sentence to imprisonment for life;
or any infamous crime involving a violation of conjugal duty and punish
able by imprisonment in the state prison.

§ 4552. Mode Of proceeding. The party aggrieved may make
complaint to the superior court in the form prescribed for civil actions,
which shall be duly served on the other party, and whenever alimony
is claimed, attachments to secure the same may be made by direction in
the writ, or by an order pending suit in the same manner as in other
civil actions, and on proof of the allegations, said court may grant a
divorce, and declare the complainant to be single and unmarried; and
the parties divorced may then marry again.

§ 4553. Order of notice. When complaint may be continued.
On all such complaints where the adverse party resides out of or is absent
from the state, or the whereabouts of the adverse party is unknown to
the plaintifff, any judge or clerk of the supreme court of errors, or of the
superior court, or any county commissioner, may make such order of
notice as he may deem reasonable ; and such notice having been given and
duly proved to the court, it may hear such complaint if it finds that the
defendant has actually received notice that the complaint is pending,
and if it shall not appear that the defendant has had such notice, the
court may hear such case, or, if it see cause, order such further notice
to be given as it may deem reasonable, and continue the complaint until
the order is complied with.

§ 4554. Case to stand on docket ninety days if no defense
made. No complaint claiming a divorce shall be heard, or any decree
granted thereon, until after the expiration of ninety days from the day
on which such complaint is made returnable, except when the defendant
shall appear in court to defend against such complaint, either in person
or by counsel, in which case such complaint shall be treated as privileged,
and shall be assigned for trial and tried as soon -as may be.
§ 4555. What residence necessary to give jurisdiction, if
the plaintifff shall not have continuously resided in this state three
years next before the date of the complaint, it shall be dismissed unless
the cause of divorce shall have arisen subsequently to the removal into
this state, or unless the defendant shall have continuously resided in
this state three years next before the date of the complaint, and actual
service shall have been made upon him, or unless the alleged cause is
habitual intemperance, or intolerable cruelty, and the plaintifff was
domiciled in this state at the time of the marriage, and before bringing
the complaint has returned to this state with the intention of permanently
remaining.

§ 4556. Alimony and change of name. The superior court may
assign to any woman so divorced part of the estate of her husband, not
exceeding one-third, may change her name, and may order- alimony
pendente lite to be paid to the wife in any complaint or cross bill for
divorce pending in such court upon such terms and conditions as it shall
deem advisable.

§ 4557. When estate reverts to husband. When any married
woman shall have derived any estate from her husband in consideration
of their marriage, or of love and affection, and her husband shall there
after be divorced from her on the ground of her misconduct, the court
may decree that such personal estate remaining in her possession, and
such real estate standing in her name, shall thereafter belong to him.
§ 4557. Discharge by wife after her divorce no bar to prosecution on note originally
instituted by assignee of husband. 22 C. 67. Divorce as matter of law does not revoke
testamentary gift. 48 C. 503.
§ 4558. Order as to custody of children. On any complaint for
a divorce, the court may at any time make any proper order as to the
custody, care, and education of the children, and may at any time
thereafter annul or vary such order.

§ 4559. When sole custody of children given to mother, in
all cases in which a divorce is granted on the complaint of a woman,
without any order being made at the time of granting such divorce,
relative to the custody of the children, and in all cases in which any
husband and wife having minor children, shall, by reason of the aban
donment or cruelty of the husband, live separately, the superior court
in the county where the parties, or one of them, reside, may, on the
complaint of the mother, and due notice given to the husband, award
the custody of the children to the mother, for such time, and under
such regulations, as it may deem proper.

§ 4560. Court may assign custody of children to either party.
In all controversies before the superior court between husband and wife
as to the custody of minor children of the marriage, the court may
assign the custody of such children to either parent according to its best
judgment upon the facts of the case, and upon such conditions and
limitations as it shall deem proper ; and when such court is not actually
in session, any judge thereof may, prior to any action in the premises
by the superior court, make any order which he may deem reasonable
as to the care, custody, and maintenance of any such minor children
during the pendency of the cause, and make any proper order in the
cause, including orders of injunction, and any such orders may after
wards be set aside or altered by such court, or by such judge when such
court is not actually in session.

§ 4561 . Children how Supported. Upon the dissolution of any
marriage by divorce, the parents of a minor child of such marriage, who
is in need of maintenance, shall maintain it according to their respec
tive abilities, and upon the complaint of either parent, then or there
after made to the superior court, it shall inquire into their pecuniary
ability, and may make and enforce such decree against either or both
of them, for the maintenance of such child as it shall consider just,
and may direct any proper security to be given therefore.

§ 4562. Orders relative to children and alimony; void mar
riages. Whenever from any cause any marriage is void, the superior
court may, upon complaint, pass a decree declaring such marriage void,
and may thereupon make such order in relation to any children of such
marriage, if such there be, and concerning alimony, as it might make
in a proceeding for a divorce between such parties if married; and the
provisions of this chapter shall apply to such complaint in the same
manner as to complaints for divorce.

§ 545. Jurisdiction Of foreclosure SUitS. Suits to foreclose or
redeem mortgages or liens upon real estate shall be brought and de
termined in the county or district in which the land is situated.

§ 546. Property subject to two or more mortgages, in case
of two or more mortgages or liens between the same parties, actions
thereon may be brought to the superior court when the amount of the
debt or liability secured by the larger of such mortgages or liens as
therein described shall be sufficient to bring it within the jurisdiction of
said court.

§ 4123. When foreclosure a bar to further action on debt.
The foreclosure of a mortgage shall be a bar to any further action upon
the mortgage debt, note or obligation, unless the person or persons who
are liable for the payment thereof are made parties to such foreclosure.

§ 4124. Appraisal of mortgaged property after foreclosure.
Upon the motion of any party to a foreclosure, the court shall appoint
three disinterested appraisers, who shall, under oath, appraise the mort
gaged property within ten days after the time limited for redemption
shall have expired, and shall make written report of their appraisal to
the clerk of the court where said foreclosure was had. Such report
shall be a part of the files of such foreclosure suit, and such appraisal
shall be final and conclusive as to the value of such mortgaged property.
The mortgage creditor in any further action upon the mortgage debt,
note or obligation, shall recover only the difference between the value of
the mortgaged property as fixed by such appraisal and the amount of his
claim; and the court in which such action shall be pending may, by its
supplementary judgment, at any time within ninety days after the time
limited for redemption has expired, if the aforesaid appraisal and report
thereof shall have been made, render judgment for the plaintifff for the
difference between such appraisal and the plaintifff's claim. In reckon
ing such period of ninety days, the months of July and August shall
be excluded; and any attachment made in such action shall continue in
full force until the expiration of such period of ninety days.


§ 4127. Foreclosure by owner of debt without legal title.
When any mortgage shall be foreclosed by the person entitled to re
ceive the money secured thereby, but to whom the legal title to the
mortgaged premises has never been conveyed, the title to such premises
shall, upon the expiration of the time limited for redemption, and on
failure of redemption, vest in him in the same manner, and to the same
extent, as such title would have vested in the mortgagee if he had fore
closed, provided the person so foreclosing shall forthwith cause the
decree of foreclosure to be recorded in the land records in the town in
which the land lies.
§ 4128. Foreclosure by executor, administrator or trustee.
When any executor, administrator, or trustee shall obtain a decree of
foreclosure, the premises foreclosed, or the avails thereof, if sold by
him, shall be held by him in the same manner, and for the benefit of
the same persons, and to be used for the same purposes, and subject to
the same rules, as the money secured by the mortgage would have been
if collected without foreclosure; and in case such premises shall not
be sold by him, the same shall be distributed, or otherwise disposed of,
to the persons who would have been entitled to the money if collected.

§ 4129. Title to vest in encumbrancer paying debt and costs.
In actions of foreclosure when a judgment of strict foreclosure is ren
dered, and there are subsequent encumbrances, the judgment may pro
vide that upon the payment of the debt and costs by any encumbrancer,
after all subsequent parties in interest have been foreclosed, the title to
the property shall vest absolutely in such encumbrancer making such
payment, subject to such unpaid encumbrances, if any, as precede him.
§ 4130. Execution of ejectment on foreclosure judgment.
When an action shall be brought for the foreclosure of a mortgage or
lien upon land, or for any equitable relief in relation to land, the
plaintifff may, in his complaint, demand possession of such land, and

the court may, if it render judgment in his favor, and find that he is
entitled to the possession of such land, issue its execution of ejectment,
commanding the officer to eject the person or persons in possession of
such land and to put the plaintifff in possession thereof; and such
officer shall execute the same; provided, that no execution shall issue
against any person or persons in possession, who are not made parties
to the action in which the judgment is rendered.

§ 4131. Ejectment by mortgagee barred by tender of debt
and COStS. In any action brought by a mortgagee of real estate, or
any person holding title under him, to obtain possession of such estate
by virtue of title derived by mortgage, against the mortgagor, or any
person holding title to said estate under him, a tender by the defendant
of the amount of the debt, with interest and the costs of the suit, shall
be a bar to its further prosecution.
§ 4142. Appointment of seller and direction of sale. Ap
praisal. When the court in any such proceeding is of opinion that a
foreclosure by sale should be decreed, it shall, in its decree, appoint a
person to make such sale and fix a day therefore, and shall direct whether
the property shall be sold as a whole or in parcels, and how such sale
shall be made and advertised; but in all cases in which such a sale is
ordered, the court shall appoint three disinterested persons who shall,
under oath, appraise the property to be sold and make return of their
appraisal to the clerk of the court; and the expense of such appraisal
shall be paid by the plaintifff and be taxed with the costs of the case.
§ 4143. Payment in full to stay proceedings, if after the
judgment provided for in § 4142 has been rendered, the amount found to
be due and for which foreclosure is decreed, together with the interest
and the costs, shall be paid to the plaintifff before the sale, all further
proceedings in the suit shall be stayed.
§ 4144. Conveyance and title of purchaser, when a sale has
been made pursuant to a judgment therefore, and ratified by the court,
a conveyance of the property sold shall be executed by the person ap
pointed to make the sale, which conveyance shall vest in the purchaser
the same estate that would have vested in the mortgagee or lien-holder
if the mortgage or lien had been foreclosed by strict foreclosure, and to
this extent said conveyance shall be valid against all parties to the cause
and their privies, but against no other persons, and the court may order
possession of the property sold to be delivered to the purchaser.
§ 4145. Disposal Of proceeds Of Sale. The proceeds of every
such sale shall be brought into court, there to be applied if the sale be
ratified, in accordance with the provisions of a supplemental judgment
then to be rendered in said cause specifying the parties who are en
titled to the same and the amount to which each is entitled ; and if any
part of the debt or obligation secured by the mortgage or lien fore
closed, or by any subsequent mortgage or lien, was not payable at the
date of the judgment of foreclosure, it shall nevertheless be paid as far
as may be out of the proceeds aforesaid as if due and payable, with
rebate of interest, however, where such debt was payable without interest.
§ 4146. When proceeds of sale will not pay in full, if the
proceeds of such a sale are not sufficient to pay in full the amount secured
by any mortgage or lien thereby foreclosed, the deficiency shall be de
termined, and thereupon judgment may be rendered in said cause for
such deficiency against any party liable to pay the same who is a party
to the cause and has been duly served with process or appeared therein,
and all persons liable to pay the debt secured by such mortgage or lien
may be made parties; but all other proceedings theretofore or meanwhile
begun for the collection of the debt shall be stayed during the pendency
of the foreclosure suit, and if a deficiency judgment is finally rendered
therein, such other proceedings shall forthwith abate. If the property
shall have sold for less than the appraisal provided for in § 4142, no
judgment shall be rendered in that suit or* in any other for the unpaid
portion of the debt or debts of the party or parties upon whose motion
the sale was ordered, nor shall the same be collected by any other means
until one-half of the difference between said appraised value and said
selling price has been credited upon such debt or debts as of the date
of sale ; and when there are two or more debts to which it is to be ap
plied it shall be apportioned between them.
§ 4147. Expenses Of Sale and COStS. The court shall order
the expenses of the sale to be first paid out of the proceeds thereof, and
shall allow to such of the parties as receive the balance of said pro
ceeds the costs usually allowed to successful parties, which cost shall
be paid in addition to their respective claims and in the same order.
§ 541. Redemption; foreclosure; matter in demand, in
actions for the redemption or foreclosure of title of property claimed to
be subject to a mortgage or lien, the amount of the debt or liability
secured by such mortgage or lien, as described in the mortgage or certifi
cate of lien, shall be deemed to be the amount of the matter in demand.
§ 865. Foreclosure of mortgage or lien on personalty;
notice. The pendency of an action for the foreclosure of any mort
gage of, or lien upon, any personal estate, shall not be notice thereof to
any person who shall acquire an interest in such estate during the
pendency of such action, unless the officer serving the process and com
plaint therein shall leave a true and attested copy thereof at the office
of the town clerk of the town in which such mortgage or lien is re
corded, at least twelve days before the return day of such process; and
no judgment or decree of foreclosure obtained in such action, upon any
process and complaint of which a copy shall not be so left at such
town clerk's office, shall affect the rights of any person acquiring an
interest in said estate during the pendency of said action.
§ 866. Duty of officer serving process in such action. The
officer serving the process and complaint in such action shall leave a
true and attested copy thereof at the said town clerk's office at least
twelve days before the return day of said process; for which he shall
be allowed the same fees as for other copies, and the same shall be
taxed with the other fees in said cause; and the town clerk at whose
office any such copy may be left shall keep the same on file for the in
spection of all person's having any interest in the estate therein de
scribed. The town clerk shall indorse on all such copies the date of
their reception, and shall plainly number them as they are received,
consecutively. He shall also keep a book in which he shall index said
copies, referring to their numbers, under the plaintifff's name as grantee
and the defendant's name as grantor.
§ 1954. Assessment a lien; foreclosure. Whenever assess
ments of benefits for any public work or improvement have been law
fully made by any city, or borough, and such public work or improve
ment has been completed and certificates of liens have been signed by
the duly constituted authorities, describing the premises upon which
such liens are claimed, and stating the amount claimed, as a lien thereon,
and shall have been lodged with the town clerk, such assessments of
benefits shall be and remain a lien upon the land upon which the same
have been made, and such cities and boroughs shall not be required to
lodge for record any further certificates of said Hens. Such liens may
be foreclosed in the manner provided by law for the foreclosure of tax
liens.
§ 2396. Tax lien. Its degree of precedence. How enforced.
The interest of any person in any item of real estate, which is legally
set in his tax list, shall be subject to a lien for that part of his
taxes which is laid upon the valuation of said interest, as found in
said list when finally completed. Said lien shall exist from the
first day of October in the year previous to that in which said taxes
become due until one year after said taxes become due, and, during
such existence, shall take precedence of all transfers and encumbrances,
in any wise affecting said interest in said item, or any part of it.
which become matters of record after said first day of October. As
to mortgages, attachments, and liens, which become matters of record
before said first day of October, said tax lien shall take precedence
only of those which purport to cover or affect said interest in the
whole of said item. Said lien, while it exists as above and before
it is continued by certificate, may be enforced by levy and sale com
pleted before its expiration. No sale of real estate for taxes, or fore
closure of any tax lien, shall divest the estate sold of any existing lien
for other taxes.

§ 2397. Foreclosure of tax liens. Jurisdiction. The tax col
lector of any town, city, borough, or school district, and the chairman
of other communities, may bring suit for the foreclosure of tax liens in
the name of the community by which the tax was laid, and all com
munities having tax liens upon the same piece of land may join in one
complaint for the foreclosure of the same, in which case tyie amount of
the largest tax shall determine the jurisdiction of the court, and the
court having jurisdiction may limit a time for redemption, or order the
sale of the property, or pass such other decree as it shall judge proper.
§ 41 60. Lien on vessel for materials or services. Every ves
sel, in the construction or repairs of which, or of any of whose appur
tenances, any person shall have a claim for more than twenty dollars,
for materials furnished or services rendered, shall be subject to lien
for the amount of such claim ; and such lien shall be on such vessel and
*' its appurtenances, and shall take precedence of any other encumbrance
(except a lien for mariners' wages), originating subsequent to the com
mencement of such services, or the furnishing of such materials, sub
ject to apportionment as provided by § 4163, and may be foreclosed
like a mortgage of personal property.

§ 997. Writ to be granted on application; service and return.
Upon application to the superior court, court of common pleas, or to the
district court of Waterbury, or, when such court is not actually in session,
to any judge thereof, for a writ of habeas corpus, verified by the affidavit
of any person, alleging that he verily believes the person on whose
account such writ is prayed for to be illegally confined or deprived of
his liberty, such court or judge shall grant the writ, returnable before
such court or judge, and directed to some proper officer, to serve and
return ; who shall serve it by putting a true and attested copy of it into
the hands of the person who has the custody of the body of him who is
directed to be brought up on said writ; and if said officer fail to make
immediate return of said writ, with his doings thereon, he shall pay
fifty dollars to the person so held in custody.

§ 998. Punishment for refusal to obey writ or accept copy.
If any person having the custody of the body of any one directed to be
brought up on a'writ of habeas corpus duly served, shall fail to bring up
the body according to the command in the writ, or refuse to accept the
copy of it offered in service, or in any way fraudulently avoid bringing
up the body according to such command, or, having brought up the body,
shall not make return of the cause of detaining such person so held in
custody, he shall be guilty of a contempt of court, and may be punished
therefore by said court or judge by commitment, and shall pay to the
person so held in custody two hundred dollars.
§ 999. Commitment for contempt; application for discharge. *
The court or judge may commit to prison, for any contempt of which
the respondent is guilty in this proceeding, for a period not exceeding
sixty days; and the respondent may, at any time within such time of
imprisonment, appear before such court when in session, or the judge
who held the same, or the judge who in vacation made the order of
commitment, and apply for a discharge from imprisonment, which such
court or judge may, for sufficient cause shown, direct.
§ 1000. Averments of return may be denied or other facts
alleged. In every writ of habeas corpus where the return of the defend
ant sets forth as a cause for the imprisonment of the petitioner any
mittimus or warrant of commitment signed by a justice of the peace,
such petitioner or the party imprisoned or restrained may deny any of
the facts set forth in the return, or may reply to such return, alleging
any other facts that may be material in the case. The return and all
pleadings subsequent thereto may be amended by leave of court or judge
hearing the same, so that the material facts may be ascertained.

§ 1001. Summary disposal of the case. The court or judge
hearing any habeas corpus shall proceed in a summary way to determine
the facts and issues of the case, by hearing the testimony and arguments
therein, inquire fully into the cause of imprisonment, and shall thereupon
dispose of the case as law and justice require.

§ 1002. Injunction when and by whom granted. Any judge
of any court of equitable jurisdiction may, on motion, grant and en
force writs of injunction, according to the course of proceedings in
equity, in all actions for equitable relief where such relief is properly
demandable, returnable to any court, when such court is not actually in
session, whether in term time or vacation ; which writs shall be of force
until the sitting of such court and its further order thereon, unless they
be sooner dissolved as hereinafter provided.
§ 1003. Application to be verified by oath. No injunction
shall be issued, unless the facts stated in the application therefore shall
be verified by the oath of the plaintifff or of some competent witness.
§ 1004. Bond on issue of temporary injunction. No tem
porary injunction shall issue in any case, except in favor of the state
or of a public officer thereof in respect to any matter of a public nature,
until the party making application therefore shall give bond, with
surety satisfactory to the court or judge granting the injunction, to
the opposite party, to answer all damages in case the plaintifff in the
action in which the injunction is applied for shall fail to prosecute the
action to effect; provided that a bond need not be required when, for
good cause shown, the court or judge shall be of opinion that a tem
porary injunction ought to issue without bond.
§ 1005. Injunctions may be granted forthwith or after notice.
Injunctions may be granted forthwith, if the circumstances of the case
demand it; or the court or judge may cause immediate notice of the
application to be given to the adverse party, that he may show cause
why such injunction should not be granted; and it shall be sufficient,
on such application for a temporary injunction, to present to the court
or judge the original complaint containing the demand for an injunc
tion, duly verified, without further complaint, application, or motion
in writing.
§ 1006. Interested persons may appear and be heard. Any
person who may be directly or indirectly interested in, or affected by,
the granting of any temporary or permanent injunction, may appear
and be heard with regard to granting or dissolving the same.
§ 1007. Dissolution of temporary injunction. Whenever a
temporary injunction is granted in any cause before the return day
thereof, it may be dissolved or modified by the court or judge who is
sued it, by any judge of the court to which the action is returnable, or
by any judge of the superior court; provided a written motion for such
dissolution shall be preferred before the return day. After the return
day such motion must be addressed to the court in which the action is
pending, or, if such court is not actually in session, to a judge thereof;
but in case of the inability of such court or judge, from any cause, to
hear such motion, it shall be heard and determined by the superior court
or by any judge thereof.
§ 1008. Action on motion to dissolve to be certified. Any
action taken by a court to which the cause is not returnable, or by a
judge thereof, upon a motion to dissolve a temporary injunction, shall
be immediately certified to the court to which the complaint in the action
is returnable, or in which it is pending.
§ 1009. Continuance of injunction pending appeal. When a
temporary injunction is granted and upon final hearing judgment is
rendered adverse to its continuance, either party may apply to the
court rendering such judgment, representing that he is desirous of
taking the case to the supreme court of errors, and praying that said
temporary injunction may be continued until the final decision therein;
and, unless said court shall be of opinion that great and. irreparable
injury will be done by the further continuance of said injunction, or
that said application is made only for delay and not in good faith, the
court shall continue said injunction until a final decision be rendered
in the supreme court of errors.
§ 1010. Mandatory injunction; stay pending appeal, when
judgment shall be rendered for a permanent injunction ordering either
party to perform any act, the court, upon an application similar to that
mentioned in § 1009, shall stay the operation of such injunction until
a final decision in the supreme court of errors, unless the court shall be
of opinion that great and irreparable injury will be done by such stay, or
that such application is made only for delay and not in good faith.
§ 1011. Removal of stay, or dissolution of injunction. The
court in which such case is pending may, however, if in its opinion the
cause of justice shall so require, dissolve said temporary injunction, or
remove the stay of said permanent injunction, while said cause is so
pending in the supreme court of errors.
§ 1012. Reservation for advice; dissolution of injunction.
When an injunction shall be granted by a judge in vacation, and the
court to which the original complaint is returnable shall reserve the
questions arising thereon for the advice of the supreme court of errors,
and said court shall advise that said complaint be dismissed and the
injunction dissolved, such injunction shall be deemed to be dissolved
from the day such notice of advice is filed in the office of the clerk of
the court making such reservation.
§ 1013. Injunction against malicious erection of structure.
An injunction may be granted against the malicious erection by or with
the consent of an owner, or lessee, or person entitled to the possession of
land, of any structure upon it, intended to annoy and injure any owner
or lessee of adjacent land in respect to his use or disposition of the same.
§ 1014. Injunction against nuisance by manufacturer, if any
manufacturer shall so carry on his business, or so expose the material
used therein, or refuse produced thereby, as to constitute a nuisance to
the public or to individuals, any persons aggrieved thereby may unite
in a complaint to the superior court in the county where the nuisance
exists, for the discontinuance or abatement of such nuisance, making
such manufacturer, if known to them, the defendant, otherwise the
person in charge of such manufactory ; and service on the latter shall be
sufficient notice to any defendant living out of this state. All such com
plaints shall be heard at the first term or session, unless continued for
cause, which continuance may be granted upon such conditions and with
such provision for relief in the mean time as the court shall order.

§ 1015. Abatement of nuisance; regulation of business, if,
upon such hearing,, the court shall be of opinion that the plaintifffs are
entitled to a decree, it may make such order for the discontinuance or
abatement of such nuisance, or for regulating the manner of conducting
such business, as it shall find to be necessary ; and if it shall appear that
any such order is ineffectual to abate such nuisance, or is disobeyed or
evaded, said court, at the same or any subsequent term or session, upon
such notice as it shall direct, may make such further order and provision
for the enforcement of such original order or decree as may be deemed
necessary.
§ 1016. Temporary injunction against manufacturer's nui
sance. The superior court, or any judge thereof in vacation, may,
upon such complaint, issue a temporary injunction against the con
tinuance of any such nuisance, until a final hearing can be had ; and if
it shall be impracticable to stay the continuance thereof by a temporary
injunction, or if such injunction shall be disobeyed or evaded, such court
or judge may make and enforce such temporary order for the discon
tinuance of such nuisance until a final hearing, as may be deemed
necessary; but at least twenty-four hours' notice in writing of the time
and place of making such motion shall be given to the defendants or some
of them, if they are known and can be found in this state, and if not,
shall be left with the person in charge of the premises, if such person
can be found.
§ 1017. Injunction against manufacturing fish oil or manure.
No temporary injunction shall be issued against any person or corpora
tion engaged in the business of manufacturing oil, manure, or phosphate
from fish to restrain or prevent the further prosecution of said business,
unless written notice of the petitioner's intention to move for such an in
junction, stating particularly the time and place at which and the court or
judge before whom such motion will be made, shall have been left with or
at the usual place of abode of the respondent, or, if he be not an in
habitant of this state, then with or at the usual place of abode of the
person in charge of such manufacturing business, at least twenty-four
hours before the hour designated in said notice for making said motion.

§ 1018. Injunction against sale on execution; adjournment of
Sale. When any temporary injunction shall be granted to restrain a sale
on execution or tax warrant, the injunction order may direct the levying
officer to adjourn the sale in such manner and for such time as the order
may prescribe; and if no such direction be given, said officer, neverthe
less, may adjourn the sale, from time to time, while the injunction
remains in force; and while such sale shall be so adjourned, the lien
created by the levy shall remain in force.
§ 1019. Action in nature Of interpleader. Whenever any person
has, or is alleged to have, any money or other property in his possession
which is claimed by two or more persons, either he, or any of the
persons claiming the same, may bring a complaint in equity, in the
nature of a bill of interpleader, to any court which by law has equitable
jurisdiction of the parties and amount in controversy, making all per
sons parties who claim to be entitled to or interested in such money
or other property. Said court shall hear and determine all questions
which may arise in the case, may tax costs at its discretion, and, under
the rules applicable to an action of interpleader, may allow to one or
more of the parties a reasonable sum or sums for counsel fees and dis
bursements, payable out of the said fund or property; but no such al
lowance shall be made unless it is claimed by the party in his complaint
or answer.
§ 1020. Issue of writs of mandamus; procedure; return.
The superior court, court of common pleas, and the district court of
Waterbury, may issue writs of mandamus in cases within their jurisdic
tion, respectively, in which such writs may by law be granted, and may
proceed therein and render judgment according to the course of the
common law; and when any such writ is issued, requiring the party to
whom it is directed to make a return, if such party shall fail so to do,
the court may issue a peremptory mandamus.
§ 1021. Mandamus; return, hearing, and judgment. When
the party to whom such writ is directed shall make a return sufficient
on its face, if it shall be denied by the other party the court shall in
quire into the truth of it, and, if found untrue, may issue a peremptory
mandamus in the same manner and on the same principles as if the
return were insufficient, and may render judgment for the complainant
to recover his costs, and grant execution for the same; but if the re
turn shall be found to be true and sufficient, said court may render
judgment for costs in favor of the party complained of.
§ 1022. Enforcement of corporation laws. Any stockholder
of a corporation may apply for a writ of mandamus against such cor
poration, to compel it to obey the statute laws of this state.

§ 1023. Mandamus against corporation to repair highway.
Any town may apply for a writ of mandamus against any corporation
bound to restore or repair any highway or bridge situated in whole or
part within such town, which has neglected or refused to restore or
repair such highway or bridge for thirty days after being notified to do
so by its selectmen.
§ 1024. ISSUe Of Writ Of ne exeat. The superior court in any
county, and, when such court is not actually in session, any judge
thereof, may grant and enforce writs of ne exeat, according to the
course of the common law.
§ 1025. Writ of prohibition when and how issued. When any
person shall make complaint to the superior court, or, when such court
is not actually in session, to any judge thereof, that any inferior court
or tribunal exceeds its jurisdiction, or holds plea of any matter or cause
whereof by law it has no cognizance, by which the complainant is ag
grieved, such court or judge may grant a rule, subscribed by the clerk
of the court, or by such judge, directed to the party prosecuting, as
well as to the judge or judges of such inferior court or tribunal, to
appear before the superior court, or such judge, in such reasonable time
as such court or judge shall appoint, to show cause why a writ of pro
hibition should not be issued against them. If the party complained
of shall neglect or refuse to appear, said court or judge shall issue a writ
of prohibition, as prayed for; but if such party shall appear, he may
plead any proper matter of defense, and said court or judge may ex
amine and decide upon the .truth, as well as the sufficiency of the facts
arising in the cause, and if sufficient ground is found, shall issue a writ
of prohibition to the party prosecuting the cause, and to the judge or
judges of said inferior court or tribunal, commanding them to proceed
no further in the trial of the cause, and shall tax costs in favor of the
complainant. If the party in the court below, or the judge or judges
of such court or tribunal, disobey such writ, such superior court or
judge may punish them for the contempt, according to the rules of the
common law, and the party aggrieved shall have his action to recover all
the damages he may sustain; but if no sufficient reason appear for
granting a writ of prohibition, costs shall be taxed in favor of the party
complained of.
§ 1026. Information in the nature of quo warranto, when
any person or corporation shall usurp the exercise of any office, fran
chise, or jurisdiction, the superior court may proceed, by information
in the nature of a quo warranto, to punish such person or corporation
for such usurpation, according to the course of the common law; and
may also permit such an information to be filed in the name of the
state's attorney in the county where the cause of action arises, at the
relation of any person desiring to prosecute the same, against any per
son usurping any corporate franchise or office, and may proceed therein
and render judgment according to the course of the common law.
§ 1027. Quo warranto; costs to prevailing party. Whenever
an information in the nature of a quo warranto is brought at the re
lation of a private individual in the name of the state or its attorney,
the court shall award costs to the prevailing party, whether relator or
respondent, against the other as in civil cases.
§ 1028. QUO Warranto; bond for COStS. The relator who prays
out such information shall, in all cases, give bond to the other party for
costs, as by law required in civil actions.
§ 1029. Order in the nature of prerogative writs. Any court
having cognizance of writs of habeas corpus, mandamus, quo warranto,
prohibition, or ne exeat, may, in any action pending before it, make any
order, interlocutory or final, in the nature of such writs, or any of them,
to the extent of its jurisdiction, so far as it may appear to be an ap
propriate form of relief.
§ 1030. Notice Of rules and WritS. All notices of rules and
writs issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be directed to a
proper officer, and served by leaving a true and attested copy with the
defendant at such time as the court or judge' shall direct; and such court
or judge may prescribe a reasonable time for the appearance of the
parties.

§ 1044. Application for receiver; orders of judge. When any
action shall be brought to, or pending in, any court of equitable juris
diction, in which an application shall be made for the appointment of a
receiver, either judge of such court or of the superior court, when such
court is not actually in session, after due notice given, may make such
order in the premises as the exigencies of the case may require, and may
from time to time rescind and modify the same, and shall cause his
proceedings to be certified to the court in which the action may be
pending, at its next session, and shall be entitled to receive for the same
the fees allowed by law for copies to clerks of courts.

§ 1045. Receiver to give bond. All receivers, before assuming
to act as such, shall file with the clerk of the court by which, or by a
judge of which, they are appointed, a bond with such surety or sureties,
and for such an amount, as such court or judge may order and approve,
payable to the state, and conditioned for the faithful performance of their
official duties.
§ 1046. Authority Of receiver. Receivers of a corporation, ap
pointed by judicial authority, shall have the right to the possession of all
its books, papers, and property, and power in their own names, or in
its name, to commence and prosecute suits for and on behalf of said
corporation ; to defend all suits brought against it or them ; to demand
and receive all evidences of debt and property belonging to it, and to do
and execute in its name, or in their names as such receivers, all other
acts and things which shall be necessary or proper in the execution of
their trust; and shall have all the powers for any of said purposes pos
sessed by said corporation. They shall, under the order of the court,
have the same power as the directors of such corporation to call in the
subscriptions to its capital stock, in such proportions and at such times
and places as they shall think necessary for the purpose of paying all
the debts of said corporation and all the expenses of the receivership.

§ 1047. Receiver to file semi-annual statements. Every
such receiver shall, during the first week in April and in October in
each year, sign, swear to, and file with the clerk of the court by which
he was appointed, a full and detailed account of his doings as such re
ceiver for the six months next preceding, together with a statement of all
orders of court passed during said six months and the present condition
and prospects of the estate in his charge, and cause a motion for a hearing
and approval of the same to be placed on the short calendar.
§ 1048. Receiver of partnership when and how appointed.
When any partnership shall be dissolved, and the partners cannot agree
upon the disposition of the partnership effects and the settlement of
the affairs of such partnership, either of them may apply to the superior
court for the county in which either of said partners resides, or in
which the property of such partnership is situated, and in case said
court is not actually In session, then to any judge of the superior court,
for the appointment of a receiver to hold the business and all of the
estate, both real and personal, belonging to such partnership, and dis
pose of, manage, and apply the same as the said court or judge may
direct. Upon receiving such application said court or judge shall
forthwith appoint a day for the hearing upon the same, and shall make
such order relative to notice of such application and of the hearing to
the other partners, as may be deemed proper; provided the hearing
shall be at least six days from the service of such order of notice; and
such court or judge, upon said hearing, may appoint a receiver for said
partnership, who shall be subject to the orders of said court.

§ 1049. Power of court over the partnership property. The
said court, and in vacation any judge thereof, shall have the power
to make such orders relative to the management or closing up of the
business of such partnership, and to the sale, division, or other disposal
of its real and personal estate, as may be necessary to protect the
rights and interests of each partner and of the creditors of such partner
ship.
§ 1050. Receiver entitled to control of partnership property.
Upon the appointment of a receiver for a partnership, he shall be en
titled to the immediate possession and control of all of its property,
both real and personal, subject to the order of said court ; but any such
appointment, or any order of said court, may be modified or vacated on
the application to said court of any party to such proceedings, reason
able notice of such application and of the time and place of the hearing
thereon having first been given to every other party.

§ 1051. Receivership; wages to be preferred claims. Every
debt due to any laborer or mechanic for personal wages, from any cor
poration or partnership for which a receiver shall be appointed, for any
labor performed for such corporation or partnership within three months
next preceding the service of the application for the appointment of
a receiver, shall be paid in full by the receiver, to the amount of one
hundred dollars, before the general liabilities of such corporation or
partnership are paid.
§ 1052. Court may remove receiver at pleasure, and fill
Vacancy. Receivers may be removed at any time, at the pleasure of
the court by which they were appointed, or, if such court is not actually
in session, by a judge thereof; and if any receiver is removed, or de
clines to act, or dies, the court that appointed him, or, if such court is
not actually in session, a judge thereof, may fill the vacancy.

§ 1053. Receivership; dissolution of attachment; costs.
The commencement of proceedings for the appointment of a receiver of
a corporation or a partnership shall dissolve all attachments, and all
levies of executions not completed, made within sixty days next pre
ceding, on the property of such corporation or partnership; but if the
property is subsequently taken from the receiver, so that it cannot be
made subject to the orders of the court in the settlement of the affairs
of said corporation or partnership, or if the receivership shall be termi
nated by order of the court pending the settlement of the affairs of the
corporation or partnership, said attachments and levies of execution shall
revive, and the time from the commencement of such proceedings to the
time when the receiver shall be dispossessed of the property, or the finding
of the court that said property is not subject to the orders of said court,
or when said trust shall be terminated, shall be excluded from the com
putation in determining the continuance of the lien created by such at
tachment; but the attaching or levying creditors shall be allowed the
amount of their legal costs, accruing before the time of the appoint
ment of a receiver, as a preferred claim against the estate of said cor
poration or partnership, if their respective claims upon which the
attachments are founded shall, in whole or in part, be allowed.
§ 1054. Replevin when maintainable. The action of replevin
may be maintained to recover any goods or chattels in which the plaintifff
has a general or special property with a right to their immediate pos
session, and which are wrongfully detained from him in any manner;
together with the damages for such wrongful detention.
§ 1055. Mesne process in replevin. Mesne process in this action
shall be a writ of summons or attachment, describing the parties, the
court to which it is returnable, and the time and place of appearance,
and shall be signed as writs are required to be in other civil actions,
and may run into any county.

§ 1056. Replevin for property attached, where the property
is held by an officer by virtue of a writ of attachment, any person other
than the defendant, and in cases where the property so held is claimed
by the defendant to be exempt from execution, the defendant, having
a general or special property therein with a right to the immediate
possession thereof, may bring an action of replevin against such officer
alone, or against the plaintifff in said writ of attachment, or against
both, to recover such property.

§ 1057. Replevin writ; bond and affidavit essential. No writ
of replevin shall be issued until the plaintifff, or some other credible
person, shall subscribe an affidavit, stating the true and just value of the
goods which it is desired to replevy, and that the affiant believes that
the plaintifff is entitled to the immediate possession of the same, which
affidavit shall be annexed to the writ; nor until some person, known
to the authority signing the writ to be of sufficient responsibility,
has entered into a recognizance before him, with at least one sufficient
surety, in a sum at least double said sworn value of said property,
or if said property be held by virtue of a writ of attachment, in a
sum at least double the amount directed to be attached by the writ under
which it is so held, conditioned that the plaintifff shall prosecute his suit
to effect, and for the payment of any judgment that may be recovered
by the defendant in the suit, and for the return of the property to him,
and payment to him of all damages sustained by the replevy thereof,
if the plaintifff fail to establish his right to its possession, and said recog
nizance shall be signed by the obligors in the presence of at least one
witness other than the authority taking the recognizance. A record of
such recognizance shall be entered at the foot of the writ, before the same
is issued; and copies of the process left in service shall contain said
affidavit and said recognizance.
§ 1058. Form Of Writ, affidavit, and bond. The writ and dec
laration in actions of replevin, and the accompanying affidavit and recog
nizance, may be in the form following :
To the sheriff of (etc., as in other forms of writs).
By authority of the state of Connecticut, you are hereby com
ertain goods and chattels, to wit: of the value
of (here insert the value as stated in the affidavit) dollars, now in
the possession of C. D. of at and by him
wrongfully detained, and (to attach the goods or estate of said
C. D., to the value of dollars and) him summon to
appear before the superior court to be held at within
and for the county of on the Tuesday of
19— ; then and there to answer unto said A. B., in a
plea of replevin, wherein the plaintifff declares and says: that
ever since the day of 19—, the defendant
has wrongfully detained, and still wrongfully detains, from the
plaintifff, said goods and chattels, being the property of the plaintifff ;
and that the plaintifff on said day was and ever since has been law
fully entitled to the immediate possession thereof; to his damage
in the sum of dollars; to recover which damage with
costs, as well as the possession of said goods and chattels, he brings
this suit.
Hereof fail not, but make due service and return.
Dated at this day of 19—.
E. F., Justice of the Peace.
County of ss. Town of 19 —.
J. S. of , being duly sworn, deposes and says that he
believes that A. B. of is entitled to the immediate pos
session of the following described goods and chattels, namely:
; that said deponent knows the nature and value of said
goods and chattels; and that their true and just value, as nearly as
the deponent can estimate it, is dollars. J. S.
Subscribed and sworn to before me,
E. F., Justice of the Peace.
Be it remembered that at the town of in
county, on the day of 19—, there
personally appeared before me, G. H. of , as principal,
and I. J. of , as surety, which surety is known to me
to be of sufficient pecuniary responsibility to respond to the amount
of this recognizance, and acknowledged themselves jointly and
severally bound unto C. D. of , in a recognizance of
dollars, that A. B. of , who prayed out the
foregoing writ of replevin against C. D.. shall prosecute his suit to
effect and shall pay to said C. D. any judgment that said C. D. may
recover in said suit, and return to said C. D. the goods and chattels
that may be replevied under said writ, and pay to him all damages
that he may sustain by the replevying thereof, if said A. B. fail to
establish his right to the possession of the same, in said suit.
E. F., Justice of the Peace.
Similar forms may be used in writs returnable before other courts.

§ 1059. Replevin; jurisdiction of court how determhed. in
determining the jurisdiction of the court to which writs of replevin may
be made returnable, the value of the matter in demand shall be de
termined by adding to the value of the goods and chattels which it
commands to be replevied, as stated in the writ, the amount of the
alleged damages for their wrongful detention, except in cases where the
action is brought by any person to recover his cattle or other animals
when impounded, in which cases the jurisdiction of the court shall be
determined by the amount of damages alleged in the plaintifff's declara
tion to have been done by such detention.

§ 1060. Replevin; service; new bond; process void, when.
The officer who replevies property shall leave a true and attested copy
of the process with the defendant, or at his usual place of abode, within
three days after such replevy, and shall retain the property replevied in
his custody for twenty-four hours after leaving such copy, unless the
defendant indorses on the writ that he is satisfied with the amount and
sufficiency of the recognizance taken on issuing the same. If the de
fendant is not satisfied with such recognizance, he may, at any time
before the return day of the writ, cite the plaintifff or his attorney, or the
officer serving the writ, if the property still remains in his custody, to
appear at once before a judge of the superior court, court of common
pleas, or district court of Waterbury, or a county commissioner or justice
of the peace residing in the county where the replevin was effected, to
respond to a motion for a new bond; and the said judge, county com
missioner, or justice of the peace, may hear such motion, and at his
discretion order a new or further bond, conditioned like the recognizance
taken on issuing the writ, signed by the obligors, and delivered to the
defendant, by whom it shall be transmitted to the court to which the writ
was made returnable; and if such order be made while the property
replevied remains in the hands of the officer, he shall not deliver said
property to the plaintifff until such bond be given. If such order for a
new bond shall not be complied with, or if the officer shall fail to leave
with, or at the usual place of abode of, the defendant, a true and attested
copy of the writ, or to retain the property in his custody, as hereinbefore
provided, then such writ of replevin shall be null and void. Whenever
it shall appear to the court before which an action of replevin is pending,
that the replevin bond attached to the writ is insufficient, such court may,
at its discretion, order a new or further replevin bond to be given by
the plaintifff, conditioned like the recognizance taken on issuing the writ,
and if he shall fail to comply with such order, he shall be nonsuited.
§ 1061. Replevin; how parties may plead. (The defendant
may plead the general issue, with or without notice, as may be necessary,
or any special plea, or make an avowry of a taking for lawful cause of the
goods and chattels replevied; but if, under a plea of the general issue,
he intends to deny that he detained the same, he shall file with his plea
a notice that he disclaims all right to the property; in which case, if
final judgment shall be rendered in his favor, he shall not be entitled to
any judgment of return.)
Sec. 47, An act concerning pleadings in
actions of replevin.
Section 1. All pleadings in actions of replevin brought after the
first day of January, 1908, shall be in such form as the judges of the
superior court shall from time to time order.
Sec. 2. So much of chapter 73 and of section 633 of the general
statutes as is inconsistent herewith is hereby repealed.

§ 1062. Replevin; jurisdiction; transfer of cause to higher
COUrt. If the defendant by avowry or special plea sets up a title or
right of possession in himself, and that the value of the goods and chattels
replevied, or the amount of any claim for the security of which he may
be entitled to their possession, exceeds the amount up to which the court
to which the action is brought has jurisdiction, and, at the time of plead
ing, moves that the cause be transferred to such higher court holden
in the same county as would have original jurisdiction of a suit for a
matter in demand of the value so alleged by him to be involved in the
cause, the court shall inquire into the question of value thus raised,
and if his said allegations respecting the same are found true, and he
offers to give a bond with a sufficient surety, in such a sum, not exceed
ing one hundred and forty dollars, as the court may order, conditioned
that he will enter a copy of the record of said cause in such higher
court at or within ten days after its next return day, and prosecute his
plea or avowry to effect, the court shall grant said motion and proceed
no further in said cause; but, upon the copy of the record being entered
as aforesaid in the docket of the proper court, the cause shall be effect
ually removed to such higher court, and shall be there proceeded with as
if originally brought to it; nor shall any bond, attachment, or other
security existing in favor of either party be impaired or invalidated by
such removal. If the court to which such motion for a removal of the
cause is addressed finds on inquiry that said allegations to the effect that
the value or amount of the matter in controversy exceeds its jurisdiction,
are not true, or if the defendant shall fail to give a bond as above pro
vided, such motion shall be denied ; and in such case, or if such a bond
be given but its condition be broken, the court shall proceed with said
cause to a final adjudication.
§ 1063. Replevin; procedure on withdrawal or nonsuit of
plaintifff. If the plaintifff in any action of replevin shall fail to appear,
or shall withdraw, or be nonsuited, before or after issue joined, the de
fendant may make a suggestion in the nature of an avowry, stating
the injury he has sustained, and his claim for damages; and the court
shall render judgment for the defendant to recover such damages as he
has sustained, and his costs, and for a return of the property replevied.
 1064. Replevin; pleading; evidence; damages. If the
plaintifff's right to the possession of the property described in the writ
is put in issue, without any disclaimer of title by the defendant, the
plaintifff shall be bound to prove the same, and may also show the dam
ages sustained by him by reason of the detention of the property by the
defendant; and if the defendant, at or before the time of joining issue,
file a written notice that he claims damages for the replevin, he may give
evidence of such damages; and judgment, if for the plaintifff, whether
upon default or trial, shall be for his damages and costs, and, if for the
defendant, shall be for a return of the property, and for his damages
and costs.

§ 1065. Damages for property not replevied, if any of the
property described in the writ is not replevied, but the plaintifff proves
a general or special property therein with a right to its immediate
possession, and that it is wrongfully detained by the defendant, and
claims full damages therefore, the value of such property with damages
for its detention, may be included in any judgment which the plaintifff
may recover, and it shall be so stated upon the record. No costs shall
be taxed against a common carrier, defendant in any action of replevin
for recovery of goods, wares, merchandise, baggage, or freight, in the
possession of a common carrier, where such common carrier upon de
mand surrenders such property to the officer serving the writ and makes
no defense to the action.
§ 1066. Replevin; nonresident defendant; security for costs.
In actions of replevin brought against persons not inhabitants of this
state, the court before which the action may be pending may make such
order as to security to be given by the defendants for costs that may be
recovered by the plaintifffs, as it may deem just.
§ 1078. When a lease of any land or building or of any apartment
in any building, whether in writing or by parol, shall terminate by lapse
of time, or by reason of any express stipulation thereof, or under the
provisions of § 4044, and the owner or lessor, or his legal representa
tives, shall desire to obtain possession of the same at the termination of
the lease, or at any subsequent time, he or they shall give notice to the
lessee to quit possession of said land, building, or apartment, at least ten
days before the termination of the lease, or before the time specified in
the notice for the lessee to quit possession, except when such lease is
terminated by reason of non-payment of rent, in which case said notice
shall be given at least five days before the time specified in the notice
for the lessee to quit possession, which notice shall be in writing, sub
stantially in the following form :
I (or we) hereby give you notice that you are to quit possession
of the (land, building, or apartment, as the case may be), now
occupied by you, on or before the (here insert the day, place, and
date). A. B.
Duplicate copies of such notice shall be made, one of which shall be
delivered to the lessee, or left at his place of residence, by a proper
officer or indifferent person. If, at the expiration of the ten days or the
five days, as the case may be, the lessee shall neglect or refuse to quit
possession of the premises, any justice of the peace or commissioner of
the superior court residing in the town in which said premises are sit
uated, may, on complaint of the lessor or owner, and on his giving bond
to prosecute to effect, issue a summons to the lessee, which shall be
served at least six days inclusive before the time of trial, to appear
before a justice of the peace in said town, to answer to said complaint ;
provided, that when there is no justice of the peace in the town in
which the premises are situated before whom the same can lawfully be
tried, the complaint may in like manner be brought and tried before a
justice of the peace of an adjoining town in the same county in which
the premises are situated, and in such case may be tried before a jury
from said adjoining town, when a jury shall be demanded by either
party.
§ 1079. Summary process; waiver of notice to quit. When
in any written lease of any land, building, or apartment, notice to quit
possession is expressly waived by the lessee, the ten days' notice here
inbefore prescribed shall not be necessary; and complaint and summons
may issue in the same manner as if such notice to quit had been previ
ously given.
§ 1080. Summary process; either party may move for jury
trial. Either party may move for a jury to try said complaint, and
on such motion the court shall cause a jury of six to be drawn from
the jury box of said town and summoned to try the same; provided the
party moving for a jury shall enter into a bond, with surety, to the
adverse party, in such sum as the court shall order, conditioned for
the payment of all costs in case final judgment is rendered against him.
§ 1081. Summary process; issue; finding; judgment; no
appeal. If on the trial of such complaint, on an issue closed either to
the court or jury, it shall be found that the defendant is the lessee of
the complainant and holds over after the termination of the lease, and
that due notice to quit has been given as above provided, yet that the
defendant holds possession after the expiration of the time therein
specified, and the defendant does not show a title in himself which
accrued after the giving of the lease, or if the defendant does not ap
pear, judgment shall be rendered for the complainant that he recover
possession of the premises with his costs, and execution shall issue ac
cordingly; and no appeal shall be allowed from any judgment rendered
in any such action.
§ 1082. Summary process by assignee and mortgagee. The
remedy provided by this chapter in favor of lessors shall extend to all
persons deriving title from the lessor or lessee of any land, building, or
apartment; and to the mortgagee of any land, building, or apartment,
after his title has become absolute by foreclosure, and to all persons
deriving title from him, or from the mortgagor. On a complaint by
the mortgagee or his assigns, it shall be sufficient for him to prove the
mortgage and his title thereunder, the foreclosure and the failure to
redeem, that notice to quit at or after the expiration of the time limited
for redemption has been duly served on the defendant, and that he
is the mortgagor, or one holding under him, and holds possession after
the expiration of the term specified in said notice, unless the defendant
can show a superior title in himself.
§ 1083. Summary process by county commissioners or
Selectmen. An action of summary process may be maintained by the
county commissioners in the name of the county, and by the selectmen
of a town in its name, to gain possession of any land or building belong
ing to such county or town, as the case may be, which is held under a
lease. Such an action by the selectmen shall be brought to and tried
before a justice of the peace of an adjoining town, and by a jury from
such town, when a jury trial is demanded by the defendant.
§ 1084. Summary process lies by reversioner or remainder
man. When any lessee shall occupy any land, building, or apartment,
under a lease from a tenant for life, any person entitled to the reversion
or remainder may, upon the death of such tenant, proceed against such
lessee by summary process, in the manner hereinbefore prescribed; and
all proceedings commenced by such tenant for the recovery of such
leased premises may, upon his death, be prosecuted in the name of the
reversioner or remainderman, in the same manner as the lessor might
have prosecuted the same if living
§ 1085. Summary process; illegal use of premises; lease
Void. When the lessee or tenant of any house, room, or tenement shall
be convicted of keeping a house of ill-fame therein, resorted to for the
purpose of prostitution or lewdness, or of a violation therein of any law
against gaming, the lease or contract for letting such house, room, or
tenement shall thereupon be void ; and the lessor may recover possession
of the premises in the manner hereinbefore prescribed, but no notice to
quit possession shall be required.
§ 1086. Summary process; other legal remedies not affected.
All persons claiming title to premises concerning which any proceedings
under this chapter have been had, shall, notwithstanding, be entitled to
any other legal remedy in the same manner as if such proceedings had
not been had.
§ 1087. Summary process; bond on writ of error; stay of
execution. When any writ of error shall be procured by the defendant
in an action by summary process, he shall give a sufficient bond, with
surety, to the adverse party, to answer for all rents that may accrue
during the pendency of such writ of error, or which may be due at the
time of its final disposal; and the defendant shall have forty-eight
hours after judgment has been rendered for filing his bill of exceptions
and procuring his writ of error ; but any Sunday or legal holiday inter
vening shall be excluded in computing said forty-eight hours; and
execution shall be stayed during that time, if it shall appear to the
justice who renders the judgment that such proceedings are not made
for the purpose of delay.
§ 1088. Ejected tenant; sale of personal effects. Whenever
a tenant is ejected by legal process, and his personal effects are set out
on the sidewalk, street, or highway, and are not removed by the owner
or said tenant within twenty-four hours thereafter, the selectmen of the
town shall remove and store the same at the expense of the owner or
said tenant; and if said effects are not called for by the owner or said
tenant, and the expense of such removal and storage is not paid to said
selectmen, within fifteen days after said ejectment, the selectmen shall
ell the same at public auction, after posting notice of such sale for one
week on the public signpost nearest to the place where the ejectment
was made, and shall pay over, to said owner or tenant, on demand, the
net proceeds of such sale, if any, after deducting a reasonable charge
for removal and storage of said effects; and if not so demanded within
thirty days, shall pay over said net proceeds to the town treasury.
§ 1089. Statute of frauds; written agreement or memoran
dum. No civil action shall be maintained upon any agreement, whereby
to charge any executor or administrator, upon a special promise to
answer damages out of his own estate, or against any person upon any
special promise, to answer for the debt, default, or miscarriage, of an
other; or upon any agreement made upon consideration of marriage;
or upon any agreement for the sale of real estate, or any interest in or
concerning it, or upon any agreement that is not to be performed within
one year from the making thereof, unless such agreement, or some
memorandum thereof, be made in writing, and signed by the party to
be charged therewith, or his agent; but this section shall not apply to
parol agreements for hiring or leasing real estate, or any interest therein,
for one year or less, in pursuance of which the leased premises have
been, or shall be actually occupied by the lessee, or any person claiming
under him, during any part of such term.

§ 1090. A contract to sell or a sale of any goods or choses in action
of the value of one hundred dollars or upwards shall not be enforcible
by action unless the buyer shall accept part of the goods or choses in
action so contracted to be sold or sold, and actually receive the same, or
give something in earnest to bind the contract, or in part payment, or
unless some note or memorandum in writing of the contract or sale.be
signed by the party to be charged or his agent in that behalf. The pro
visions of this section apply to every such contract or sale, notwith
standing that the goods may be intended to be delivered at some future
time, or may not at the time of such contract or sale be actually made,
procured, or provided, or fit or ready for delivery, or some act may be
requisite for the making or completing thereof, or rendering the same
St for delivery; but if the goods are to be manufactured by the seller
especially for the buyer and are not suitable for sale to others in the
ordinary course of the seller's business, the provisions of this section
shall not apply. There is an acceptance of goods within the meaning of
this section when the buyer, either before or after delivery of the goods,
expresses by words or conduct his assent to becoming the owner of those
specific goods.

§ 1091. Fraudulent conveyances when void, ah fraudulent
conveyances, suits, judgments, executions, or contracts, made or contrived
with intent to avoid any debt or duty belonging to others, shall notwith
standing any pretended consideration therefore, be void as against those
persons only, their heirs, executors, administrators, or assigns, to whom
such debt or duty belongs.
§ 1092. Forfeiture by party to such conveyance. Any party
to any such fraudulent proceeding, who shall wittingly justify the same
as being made in good faith, and on good consideration, shall forfeit
one year's value of any real estate, and the whole value of any personal
estate conveyed, changed, or contracted for thereby; half to the party
aggrieved who shall sue for the same, and half to the state.
§ 1093. Civil actions Upon Statutes. Civil actions may be
maintained upon the several sections contained in this chapter.

§ 1095. Liability for placing obstructions in highway, when
any person shall place or keep building materials, or any obstacle, in
any highway, either with or without a license therefore from the city,
town, or borough, in which such highway may be situated, he shall pay
to said city, town, or borough, all costs and damages which it shall
sustain or be compelled to pay by reason thereof.
§ 1096. Damage for spreading fire. Every person who shall
set fire on any land, that shall run upon the land of any other person,
shall pay to the owner all damages done by such fire.
§ 1097. Damages for cutting trees or timber. Every person
who shall cut, destroy, or carry away any trees, timber, or underwood,
standing or lying on the land of another, or on town commons, or on
any common and undivided land, without license of the owner, and all
who shall aid therein, shall pay to the party injured one dollar for
every tree or pole under one foot diameter; and for all trees of a
diameter of one foot or more three times their value ; but when the court
shall be satisfied that the defendant was guilty through mistake, and be
lieved that the timber was growing on his own land, it shall render judg
ment for no more than its true value. When the trespass is committed
on common and undivided lands, the action shall be brought in the
name of the proprietors, and when on town commons, in the name of the
town.
§ 1098. Trespass to lands without color of right. When any
person shall willfully, and without color of right, commit a trespass on
the lands of another, by cutting or destroying any trees, carrying away
any wood or rails, or destroying or taking away any growing crops or
fruits, and a judgment, rendered against him in an action in the nature
of trespass therefore, shall remain unpaid for thirty days, he shall be
committed to the county workhouse or jail, there to be kept at hard labor
not exceeding sixty days ; and the court shall issue execution accordingly ;
but if any person thus committed shall be unable to pay the expense of
his support in the workhouse or jail, it shall be paid by the plaintifff ;
and if such person shall pay such execution, costs, and expenses, he shall
be thereupon released from the workhouse or jail.
§ 1099. Liability for fraud in contracting debt; concealing
property. When any person shall be guilty of fraud in contracting a
debt, or conceal, remove, or convey away, any part of his estate, with
intent to prevent it from being taken by legal process, or refuse to pay
any debt admitted by him, or established by a valid judgment, while
having estate, not exempt from execution, sufficient to discharge the
same, concealed or withheld by him so that the same cannot be taken by
legal process, or refuse to disclose his rights of action, with intent to
prevent the same from being taken by foreign attachment, any creditor
aggrieved thereby may institute an action against him, setting forth
his debt and such fraudulent act or acts particularly in the complaint,
and have process of attachment and execution against the body of the
defendant, to be proceeded with in all respects as in actions founded
upon a tort.
§ 11 00. Waste by tenant for life or years. Every person who,
having no greater interest in real estate than an estate for years, or for
life, created by the act of the parties and not by the act of the law, shall
commit waste upon the premises, beyond what tenants for years or life
created by operation of law may do, shall be liable to the party injured
in an action on this section, unless he were expressly authorized,
by the contract under which such interest is created, to do the acts com
plained of ; but no Vested rights in any tenant for years, or for life, on
the first day of January, 1849, shall be affected by this section.
§ 1101. Treble damages for theft. Every person who steals
any property of another, or knowingly receives and conceals stolen prop
erty, shall pay the owner treble its value.
§ 1102. Double damages for forgery. Every person who
falsely makes, alters, forges, or counterfeits any document, or knowingly
utters, as true, any document falsely made, altered, forged, or counter
feited, shall pay double damages to any party injured thereby.
§ 11 03. Treble damages for willful removal of bridge. Every
person who shall willfully remove or destroy any part of any bridge, or
of its approaches, shall pay treble damages to the owner thereof, or party
bound to maintain the same.
§ 1 1 04. Treble damages for injury to mile-stone or guidepost.
Every person who shall pull down or injure any milestone, guide post,
or other monument for the direction of travelers, or any railing lawfully
erected on any causeway or public road for safety of travelers, shall pay
to the owner thereof treble damages.
§ 1105. Treble damages for vexatious suit, if any person shall
commence and prosecute any suit, or complaint, against another, in his
own name, or the name of others, without probable cause, and with a
malicious intent unjustly to vex and trouble him, he shall pay him
treble damages.

§ 1106. Damages for leaving open bars, gate, or fence.
Every person who shall wittingly and unlawfully throw down or leave
open any bars, gate, or fence, belonging to any particular enclosure or
common field, shall pay to the party injured double damages, and a sum
not exceeding five dollars, according to the nature and aggravation of
the trespass.

§ 1107. Action for malicious erection of structure. An action
may be maintained by the proprietor of any land against the owner or
lessee of land adjacent, who shall maliciously erect any structure thereon,
with intent to annoy or injure the plaintifff in his use or disposition of
his land.

§ 4053. Action tO Settle title tO land. An action may be brought
by any person claiming title to, or any interest in, real property, against
any person or persons who claim to own the same, or any part thereof,
or to have any estate in the same, either in fee, for years, for life, in
reversion, or remainder, or to have any interest in the same, or any lien
or encumbrance thereon, , adverse to the plaintifff, for the purpose of
determining such adverse estate, interest, or claim, and to clear up all
doubts and disputes, and to quiet and settle the title to the same. The
complaint in such action shall describe the property in question and
state the plaintifff's claim, interest, or title, and shall name the person
or persons who claim such adverse estate or interest. Each defendant
shall, in his answer, state whether or not he claims any estate or interest
in, or encumbrance on, said property, or any part thereof, and, if so,
the nature and extent of the estate, interest, or encumbrance, which he
claims, and he shall set out the manner in which, and the sources through
which such estate, interest, or encumbrance, is claimed to be derived.
No judgment for costs shall be rendered in such action against any de
fendant who, by his answer, disclaims all estate or interest in, or in
cumbrance on, said property, but costs shall be taxed in his favor at the
discretion of the court; and the court shall, in such cases, without
further proof, render judgment that such defendant has no estate, in
terest in, or encumbrance on said property, or any part thereof. The
court shall hear the several claims and determine the rights of the parties,
whether derived from deeds, wills, or other instruments, or sources of
title, and may determine the construction of the same, and render
judgment determining the questions and disputes, and quieting and
settling the title to said property.

§ 4055. Bounds between proprietors re-established by su
perior COUrt. When the boundaries of lands between adjoining pro
prietors shall have been lost, or become uncertain, and they cannot
agree to establish the same, one or more of them may bring a complaint
to the superior court for the county in which such lands, or a portion of
them, are situated; and such court may, upon such complaint, order
such lost and uncertain bounds to be erected and established; and may
appoint a committee of not more than three disinterested freeholders,
who shall give notice to all parties interested in said lands to appear
before them, and, having been duly sworn, shall inquire into the facts,
and erect and establish such lost and uncertain bounds, and may employ
a surveyor to assist therein ; and shall report the facts and their doings
to the court ; and, if said court shall find said parties were duly notified,
it may confirm said doings; and certified copies of said report and de
cree shall be recorded in the records of the town in which said lands
are, and the bounds, so erected and established, shall be the bounds be
tween said proprietors.
§ 4532. Recovery of money lost in gaming. Any person who
shall, by playing at any game, or betting on the sides or hands of such
as play at any game, lose the sum or value of one dollar in the whole
and pay or deliver the same, or any part thereof, may, within three
months next following, recover from the winner the money, or the value
of the goods, so lost and paid or delivered, with costs of suit, in a civil
action, without setting forth the special matter in his complaint; and
if the defendant shall refuse to testify, if called upon in such action,
relative to the discovery of the property so won, he shall be defaulted;
but no evidence so given by him shall be offered against him in any
criminal prosecution. 
§ 4533. Recovery by party other than loser, if the party
losing such money, or other thing, shall not within said time sue for the
same, and prosecute to effect, any other person may recover treble its
value of such winner or winners, with costs.

§ 3911. Stockholders liable for debts. The stockholders of
every telegraph, telephone, or electric light or power company, organized
under the laws of this state, shall be jointly and severally liable to any
creditor of such company for the payment of any debt due to him con
tracted or due during the time of their holding stock therein, to the ex
tent of twenty-five per cent, of the amount of stock held by them re
spectively; provided, that such creditor shall first obtain a judgment
against the company, and an execution thereon shall be returned un
satisfied, and suit shall be brought against such stockholder or stock
holders, while they respectively continue to hold any of such stock, or
within two years after they cease to hold it.

