Section 1. Every writ used for the commencement of an action,
shall bear date on the day it was issued, and shall be returnable On
the first day of the term next thereafter.
Sec. 2. A writ of summons may be served on the defendant by
stating the substance of it to him personally, or by leaving a copy
of it at his usual place of abode, in the presence of some white adult
person, six days before the return thereof.
The officer serving a summons shall state in his return the timeRe
and manner of service.
Sec. 3. If the defendant in a writ of summons shall not appear
at the return day thereof, and it shall appear by the return that he
was duly summoned, it shall be lawful for the plaintifff, having filed
his declaration, to take judgment thereon for default of appearance,
according to the rules and practice of the court.
But if the defendant shall, at or before the next term after such
judgment, by affidavit deny notice, or knowledge, of such suit be
fore the judgment was rendered, and shall allege that there is a just
or legal defense to the action, or some part thereof, such judgment
shall be taken off and he shall be permitted to appear; any execu
tion which may have been issued thereon to remain cautionary.
Sec. 4. In every case in which a writ of scire facias may by law
be issued, it shall be served and returned in the same manner as is
provided in case of an original summons ; and judgment for default
of appearance may be taken in like manner, unless it be otherwise
specially provided.
Sec. 5. A writ of capias ad respondendum is served by arresting
the defendaut, but he shall be discharged upon giving sufficient
bail.
Sec. 6. It shall be lawful for any persons willing to become partJea
t0 an amicable action, to enter into au agreement in writing for
that purpose, either personally or by their agents, or attornies; and
on filing such agreement with the prothonotary, he shall docket the
suit, and from the time of such entry the action shall be deemed to
be depending in the same manner as if the defendant had appeared
to a summons issued against him by the plaintifff.
Sec. 7. Action may be brought in the name of the State against
auy officer f°r money received by, or legally chargeable to him, for
fines, forfeitures, or fees, appertaining either to the funds of the
State, or to the school fund.
CHAPTER 192, Vol. 11, Laws op Delaware.
AN ACT MAKING ADDITIONAL PROVISION FOR THE SERVICE OF
ORIGINAL PROCESS.
SECTION I. That whenever suit shall be brought against any person or persons not
residing in this State, but doing business therein either by a branch establishment or
agenc>'> shall be sufficient service of a writ of summons to leave a copy thereof with
any agent, or at the usual place of business of such person or persons, or his or her. or
their, agent ten days before the return thereof.
Passed ot Dai'cr, February 10, /Sjj.
CHAPTER 270, Vol. 11, Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT IN RELATION TO THE TRIAL OF ISSUE OF FACT IN THE
SUPERIOR COURT.
Section I. That in all civil causes where matters of fact are at issue, if the parties
agree, such matters of fact shall be tried by the court, and judgment rendered upon
^ ' ' J r
their decision thereon, as in cases tried bv a jury under the present practice,
' ' 1 e
Passed at Dover, March I, r8jj.
SECTION I . That from and after the passage of this act, it shall not be lawful, at the
suit of any non-resident, to arrest and hold to bail on mesne process any person who
mav be a non-resident of this State at the time of issuing such process against such
,,...,.„
person or persons, for any debt contracted without the limits of this State. If any such
non-resident shall be so arrested, he may apply by petition in writing to any Judge of
this State, setting forth his residence and the State in which said debt was contracted,
and it shall be the duty of said Judge, on the production of satisfactory proof that the
plaintifff was a non-resident at the time of issuing the process, and also that the petitioner
is a non-resident of this State, and that the debt on which said petitioner
was arrested was not contracted in this State, to discharge said petitioner from custody;
but this act shall not be construed as affecting in any degree the law 6f attachment.
Sec. 2. That " An act relating to arrests in civil cases in the State of Delaware,"
passed at Dover, March 3d, 1853, be, and the same is hereby, repealed, made null
, ._,
and void.
Passed at Dover, February 4, /S62.
CHAPTER 179, Vol. 15, Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT IN RELATION TO THE SERVICE OF PROCESS ON FOREIGN
INSURANCE COMPANIES.
Section i. That in any case where any insurance company, not incorporated by
this State, shall have an agency, transact any business, or issue policies of insurance
° J J r
upon anv property or life, within any county in this State, it shall and may be lawful
. .... . .
to institute and commence an action against such insurance company in such county,
and the original writ may be served upon the president, agent, chief or other clerk, or
upon any director or agent of such company, within such county, and such service shall
be good and valid in law, to all intents and purposes. For the purpose of this act the
receiving of a premium of insurance for transmission to such company, or otherwise,
constitute the receiver thereof their agent.
Passed at Dover, February 25, i8yj.
CHAPTER 180, Vol. 15, Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT RELATING TO ARRESTS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.
SECTION I. That hereafter, no writ of capias ad respondendum shall be issued
against anv citizen of this State, in any civil action unless the plaintifff therein, or \i
^* J J *
there be more than one, some one or more of the plaintifff's, shall have made a
written affidavit, and filed the same in the office of the prolhonotary of the Superior
Court of the county out of which the writ is to issue, stating, that to the best of his or
their belief, the defendant has absconded, or is about to abscond from the place of his
usual abode ; or that the defendant is justly indebted to the plaintifff, in a sum exceed
ing fifty dollars, and that he verily believes the said defendant has secreted, conveyed
away, assigned, settled or disposed of, either money, goods, chattels, stock, securities
for money, or other personal estate or real estate of the value of more than one hundred
dollars, with intent to defraud his creditors, and shall, moreover, in such affidavit,
specify and set forth the supposed fradulent transactions. Provided that this act shall
not apply where the action shall be for libel, slander or injury to the person or prop
erty, accompanied by violence, if any affidavit of the cause of action be filed with the
praecipe.
[Sec. 2. That the Superior Court in term time or any judge in vacation, upon the
petition of any person arrested, and reasonable notice in writing to the party
m wnose favor the process issued, his attorney or agent, shall investigate the allegations
contained in any affidavit made and filed under the foregoing section, that the de
fendant has absconded or is about to abscond from the place of his usual abode, and
t'le allegations and specifications of fraud contained in such affidavit, and if upon
such investigation, the court or judge shall consider that there was not or is not suffi
cient cause for the arrest, the person arrested shall be discharged, and the plaintifff
shall pay the costs. The court or judge shall have power to make and enforce all
. , . ,
necessary and proper orders in the premises.]
Passed at Dover, March 3, 1875.
Ssc, i. How taken.
2. Amount of bail; how fixed.
Appearance on common bail.
On special bail.
CHAPTER CIII.
OF BAIL.
Plaintiff's affidavit to show cause of
bail.
3. Bail bond shall be assigned ; when ;
how.
4. Persons under attachment of contempt,
bailable, except, when, &c.
If no sum be indorsed, how Axed.
S Actions on bail bonds, where brought,
and how.
Relief of bail.
6. Proceedings in chancery against bail.
7. Liability of sheriff for insufficient bail.
8. Rule to bring the body into court.
9. Persons committed may give bail;
when.
Sbc.io. Special bail required in actions for pen
alties
xi. Power of bail over his principal Bailpiece.
is. Bail entitled to assignment of judgI
ment.
I
OF BAIL.
So, one of several, paying it.
13. Proceedings by assignee against prinpal.
And for contribution.
14. Proceeding against an absconding
debtor.
Affidavit, capias, order for security.
If not given, attachment may issue.
If arrest improper, judgment for de
fendant.
Act in relation to arrests for debts not
due.
Section 1. Bail shall be taken by the joint and several bond
of the defendant and his bail to the sheriff, or officer to whom
the writ is directed, and his assigns, in the sum indorsed on such
writ, with condition, in substance —that if the defendant shall ap
pear before the court mentioned in such writ, at the place and time
oi the return thereof, to answer as therein required, the said bond
shall be void.
^EC* ^* sum m wn*cn kail 's demanded shall be indorsed on
the writ. The Superior Court, or any judge thereof, may, on com
plaint, fix the amount of bail, or discharge the defendant on com
mon bail.
The plaintifff, or his agent, or attorney, if residing in the county,
shall have notice of the time and place of hearing such complaint,
and the plaintifff's affidavit shall be received to show cause of bail.
When a defendant is discharged on common bail, his appearance
shall be entered on the return of the process. When a bail bond is
given, the defendant cannot appear without giving special bail to the
action, unless by order of court, or with the plaintifff 's consent.
Sec. 3. The sheriff or officer to whom a bail bond is given, or
his executors, or administrators, shall, upon request, assign it to the
plaintifff, or his executors or administrators, by indorsement under
seal, attested by one or more witnesses.
By special order of court the assignment may be to a person
for whose use the action is brought, or his executors, or administra
tors.
Sec. 4. A person arrested by virtue of any attachment for contempt (except attachments for non-performance of decrees, or noupayment
of money, or returnable forthwith,) shall be admitted to
give bail, and all the foregoing provisions shall apply to the case.
Any judge of the court awarding the attachment may fix the amount
of bail.
If no sum be indorsed on the writ, the officer executing it shall
set down a reasonable sum.
Sec. 5. Action upon a bail bond must be brought in the same
court as the original action ; and when the bond is duly assigned,
the action shall be in the name of the assignee, or his executors, or
administrators. The court may grant to the bail and to the parties
respectively in the original action, such relief, upon such terms, and
in such manner as shall be just and equitable.
Sec. 6. Proceedings against bail, on a bail bond taken on an attachment
issued out of the Court of Chancery, shall be by petition
to the said court, which shall decree thereon according to equity.
Sec. 7. Insufficient bail shall be regarded as no bail. A sheriff,
or officer, taking insufficient bail, shall be deemed to have volun-»uf
tarily permitted the defendant to escape, and shall be liable accord
ingly. One or more citizens of the county, of ability to answer the
sum in which bail is required, shall be sufficient bail.
Sec. 8. Although bail be taken, the court shall, upon application,
grant a rule upon the sheriff, or officer, to bring the body of the defendant into court, in the same manner as if no bail were taken ; but
if the bail be sufficient, and the sheriff, or officer, will assign the bail
bond, no further proceeding shall be had against him, if he cannot
find the defendant so as to comply with the rule.
Sec. 9. It shall be lawful for any defendant, committed to prison
by virtue of a capia* ad respondendum, * * * toS
enter special bail to the action at any time before final judgment is
obtained against him.
[And also for any person who is now or may hereafter be im-ch
prisoned, having been surrendered by his bail, to enter special bail
anew at any time before he shall be charged in execution by a writ
of caputs ad satisfaciendum delivered to the sheriff.]
Sec. 10. In every action for a penalty imposed by law, special
bail may be required in the amount of the penalty sued for, upon
affidavit that the offense has been committed.
Sec. 11. Special bail shall have the right to take and render his
principal in his own discharge, and to commit him to jail, at any
time before the end of the term to which the scire facias, or other
lawful process, is returnable ; and a copy of the entry of special
bail shall be his sufficient warrant. If the first scire facias be re
turned "nihil," a second shall be issued and returned before the
liability of the bail is fixed.
Sec. 12. Bail may satisfy any judgment rendered against his
principal; and the plaintifff, or party having the interest tnerein,
sna|i assjgD the same to the bail, or his executors, or administra
tors, at the risk of the assignee, whenever it is so satisfied.
If several persons be bail, one or more, satisfying the judgment,
shall be entitled to the assignment.
Sec. 13. The assignee may proceed in the name of the plaintifff,
or his executors, or administrators, for his own use, to execute the
judgment against the principal, or his executors, or administrators,
or to recover from other bail his proportionable share, or may make
himself a party to the judgment by scire facias and proceed in his
own name, as assignee.
Sec. 14. If any person he indebted to an inhabitant of this State,
and the day of payment is not arrived, the creditor, or any one for
him, on filing with the prothonotary an affidavit that the defendant
is indebted to him in a sum exceeding fifty dollars, the time for
payment of which is not yet come, and that he, on good grounds,
believes that said defendant is about to leave the State, and to re
move his effects, and has refused to give better security for the debt,
may issue a capias against such debtor, and have him arrested; ami
such debtor, shall, on the return of the writ, be obliged to give bet
ter security for the payment of such debt, if the court, on hearing,
shall see fit so to order, and he shall pay the costs.
If he fail to give such security, a domestic attachment may be
issued against him without the affidavit required by chapter 104.
But if the court shall consider that there was not sufficient cause
for the arrest, judgment shall be given that the plaintifff pay to the
defendant such costs and charges as the court shall think fit to
allow.
CHAPTER 531, Vol. 16, Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT IN RELATION TO ARRESTS FOR DEBTS NOT DUE
Section i . That the Superior Court in term time, or any judge in vacation, upon
the petition of the person arrested under any writ of capias, issued under Section 14,
of Chapter 103, of the Revised Statutes, of this State, or under Section 58, of Chapter
120, of said Revised Statutes shall investigate the allegations contained in any affidavit
required by either of said Sections to be made and filed before the issuing of such
«-rit, except such allegations as relate to the indebtedness of the defendant to the
plaintifff and the time for payment of the same, or the rent which the tenant is to pay
or render and when it will be due.
Sec. 2. Reasonable notice in writing of the hearing upon such petition shall be given
to the party in whose favor such writ issued, his attorney or agent.
Sec. 3. If upon such investigation, the court or judge shall consider that there was
not sufficient cause for the arrest, the person arrested shall be discharged and the plaintifff
or landlord shall pay the costs. The court or judge shall have power to make and
enforce all necessary and proper order in the premises.
Passed at Dover, March 13, jSSi.
^ Ei
CHAPTER CIV.
OF ATTACHMENTS.
1. Domestic attachments; when isSUdd.
2. Form.
Act about garnishees,
j. I>issolvcd by special bail.
4. Duty of officer executing it.
5. Return ; appraisement ; garnishees.
6. Sale of perishable goods.
7. Garnishee compelled to appear.
When discharged
Special answer ; plea; verdict.
Judgment; distribution.
8. May be pleaded by garnishee.
9. Capias against garnishee ; when.
10 Auditors to be appointed
11. Oath; notice; audit ; apportionment.
Report ; payment.
Sec. 12. Exceptions to report13.
Refunding recognizance ; trial.
14. Creditors neglecting to prove claims,
barred.
15. Judgment at second term, unless, &c.
Order for sale of property.
16. Balance - surplus.
17. Surety ot defendant may prove claim.
18. No second writ, unless, SC.
Proceedings not stayed by death or
payment
19. Foreign attachment; when is
sued.
20. Proceedings upon.
21 Force of sale.
Evidence under general issue.
Additional acts.
OF ATTACHMENTS.
Section 1. A writ of domestic attachment may be issued against
an inhabitant of this State after a return to a summons, or capias,
issued and delivered to the sheriff, or coroner, ten days before the
return thereof, showing that the defendant cannot be found, and
proof satisfactory to the court, of the cause of action ; or upon
affidavit made by the plaintifff, or some other credible person, and
filed with the prothonotary, that the defendant is justly indebted to
the plaintifff in a sum exceeding fifty dollars, and has absconded
from the place of his usual abode, or .gone out of the State, with
intent to defraud his creditors, or to elude process, as is believed.
Sec. 2. The writ of attachment shall be directed as other writs
are, and shall command the officer to attach the defendant by all
his goods and chattels, rights and credits, lands and tenements, in
whose hands, or possession, soever, the same may be found in his
bailiwick, so that he be and appear at the next Superior Court, to
answer the plaintifff's demand ; and that he summon the defendant's
garnishees to appear at the said court to declare what goods, chat
tels, rights, credits, money, or effects of the defendant, they have
in their hands respectively.
CHAPTER 607, Vol. 11, Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT ABOUT GARNISHEES.
Section I. That a garnishee being summoned under any process of attachment ; to
appear and answer in any court or before a justice of the peace, shall, for attendance
in such court or before such justice, in obedience to said summons, be allowed a fee of
fifty cents per day and three cents per mile, going and returning ; the same to be paid
by the plaintifff in the attachment, and to be recovered by him as part of his judgment
against the defendant in the attachment if judgment shall be obtained against the
garnishee. The feejierein provided for shall be paid or tendered to the garnishee be
fore he shall be obliged to attend in obedience to the summons.
PasseJ at Dover, February 21 , 18jt).
[Sec. 3. If the defendant in the attachment, or any sufficient person
for him, will, at any time before judgment, appear and give security
to the satisfaction of the plaintifff in such cause, or to the satisfac
tion of the court and to all actions brought against such defendant,
to the value of the property, rights, credits and monies attached,
and the costs, then the garnishees and all property attached shall
be discharged. The security may be taken thus : " On the
day of 18 — A. B. becomes security in the sura of
that C. D. shall answer the demand of E. F. in this suit,
and shall satisfy any judgment to the extent of the value of the
property attached, that may be recovered against him therein,"
which entry, on the appearance docket, shall be signed by the se
curity, and shall be an obligation of record of the same force and
effect, and subject to the same remedy by an action of debt, as any
other obligation for the payment of money may be.]
Sec. 4. The sheriff, or other officer, shall, under such writ, attach
all the defendant's property real and personal, and his rights and
credits that can be found ; and shall take possession of the said
personal property, rights and credits, and have them inventoried ami
appraised, and shall be answerable therefore; but if he cannot have
actual possession thereof, he shall notify the person in whose hand?,
or possession, they are supposed to be, that he attaches the same at
the plaintifff's suit, for the use of all the defendant's creditors, and
that he doth summon him, as a garnishee, to appear and answer as
commanded by the writ ; from and after which answer, the per
sonal property, chattels and effects, so attached, shall be delivered to
the sheriff, unless the garnishee will give security for the same.
Sec. 5. The sheriff, or other officer, shall return a particular ac
count of all property, rights, or credits, attached, and the appraised
value thereof, and the names of all garnishees summoned.
Sec. 6. If any property, so attached, is of a perishable nature,
or will cause expense in its keeping, the court, or any judge thereof,
may order the said officer, on due notice, to sell the same, and re
tain the money, subject to the order of court.
Sec 7. If any garnishee, duly summoned shall not appear as
required, he may be compelled, by attachment, to appearand answer, or plead ; and he shall be so compelled within two terms, or
the attachment shall, as to him, be dissolved.
If he appear, and at the request of the plaintifff, or other creditor,
answers under oath that he had no money, goods, chattels, rights,
credits, or effects of the defendant, liable to attachment, in his
hands, or possession, at the time he was notified of the attachment,
or at any time after, he shall be discharged.
He may also, at the election of the plaintifff, or other creditor,
make a special declaration ; upon which judgment shall be rendered
by the court according to law.
But if any creditor of the defendant shall require him to plead,
he shall not be permitted to answer, but shall plead " nulla bona,"
on which the plaintifff, or any other creditor, may take issue and
go to trial.
And if it be found that the garnishee had, at the time he was
notified of the attachment, or at any time after and before his plea
pleaded, any money, goods, chattels, or effects, of the defendant in
his hands, or possession, the jury shall render a verdict for the
plaintifff, or such other creditor, and assess damages to the value of
such property, and judgment shall be entered against such garnishee
therefore, with costs ; but the money, levied thereon, shall be distributed among all the defendant's creditors as is hereinafter di
rected.
Sec. 8. Any judgment against a garnishee as aforesaid, shall be
pleadable in bar to any action at the suit of the defendant.
Sec. 9. If the plaintifff, in any writ of attachment, or any creditor
of the defendant therein, or any credible person in behalf of
such plaintifff, or creditor, will make affidavit that any garnishee,
summoned or to be summoned thereon, is not an inhabitant of the
county where the attachment is depending, or that he believes such
garnishee is about to leave the said county, and that he also be
lieves that such garnishee has property of the defendant in his hands,
or owes the defendant money, whether it is due or not, then the said
plaintifff, or creditor, may issue a capias against such garnishee and
hold him to bail for his appearance at court to answer, or plead, as
aforesaid.
Sec. 10. On the return of a writ of attachment, the court shall
appoint three suitable persons to audit the claims of the defendant's
creditors (except such of them as have sued out attachments before
a justice of the peace, aixl attached any property, rights or credits of
the defendant, who shall be barred from any dividend or benefit
under this proceeding,) and shall adjust and ascertain all their de
mands, including that of the plaintifff in the attachment.
Sec 11. The auditors shall severally be sworn faithfully to dis
charge their duty according to the best of their skill and knowl
edge.
They shall give thirty days' notice to the creditors of the time
and place of their first meeting, by advertisements posted at the
court-house door, and at least five other public places of the county;
and their subsequent sittings shall be by adjournment duly made
and publicly announced.
They may investigate any claim presented, in any form they
judge best, and may examine any of the creditors upon oath.
On the receipt of the proceeds of sale of the property attached,
or any part thereof, the auditors shall calculate and settle the pro
portions, and dividends due the several creditors, allowing to the
creditors attaching and prosecuting the same to judgment, a double
share, or dividend, if such shall not exceed their debt ; and they
shall make report to the next term of the court after such appor
tionment, and on confirmation of the report, shall forthwith, on
pain of attachment, pay over to the several creditors their respec
tive shares of such proceeds according to such apportionment.
Sec. 12. The court may hear exceptions to, and correct such ac
count and report, either in the allowance, or regulation of claims,
in the calculations, dividends, or apportionment or otherwise.
Sec. 13. Provided that before any creditor shall receive any div
idend, or share, so distributed, he shall, with sufficient surety, enter
into recognizance to the debtor, before the prothonotary, in a suffi
cient sum, to secure the payment of the same or any part thereof, if
the said debtor shall, within one year thereafter, appear in the said
court and disprove or avoid such debt or such part thereof.
The proceeding for this purpose may be by motion to the court,
and an issue framed and tried before the same.
Sec. 14. Every creditor who shall neglect duly to present his
claim, in person or by attorney, to said auditors, according to
notice, or to make proof thereof, as required, shall be debarred from
receiving any share, or dividends in the distribution to be made by
the auditors.
Sec. 15. Judgment shall be given for the plaintifff in the attach
ment the second term after issuing the writ, unless the defendant
shall enter special bail as aforesaid ; whereupon, the court shall
make an order that the sheriff shall sell the property attached, on
due notice, and pay the proceeds (deducting legal costs and charges)
to the auditors for distribution.
Sec. 16. Any balance remaining due to the creditors, after such
distribution of the proceeds, may be collected as other debts; and
any overplus, after paying all the claims allowed and costs, shall be
returned to the defendant, or his executors, administrators, or as
signs.
Sec. 17. Any surety of the defendant by recognizance, bond, bill,
assumption or otherwise, shall be entitled to prove the claim, arising
on such liability, before the auditors, and to share in the distri
bution.
Sec. 18. No second writ of domestic attachment shall issue
against the defendant, unless the first shall not be executed, or
shall be quashed, or dissolved by the court, or discontinued by the
plaintifff with consent of a majority of the creditors: and if the
plaintifff shall die, or be satisfied of his debts, it shall not stop the
proceedings ; but the name of his executor, or administrator, or of
any other creditor, may, on suggestion of the fact, be substituted in
his stead.
Sec. 19. A writ of foreign attachment may be issued against any
*
person not an inhabitant of this State, after a return to a summons,
or capias, issued and delivered to the sheriff, or coroner, ten days
before the return thereof, showing that the defendant cannot be
found, and proof, satisfactory to the court, of the cause of action;
or upon affidavit made by the plaintifff, or some other credible per
son, and filed with the prothonotary, that the defendant resides out
of the State, and is justly indebted to the said plaintifff in a sum ex
ceeding fifty dollars. [And where there are two or more defendants,
one a resident of the State but without available means to
pay the plaintifff's claim, the fact may be so stated in such
affidavit, and the attachment thereon may issue against the
non-resident defendant or defendants with the same effect as if such
non-resident defendant or defendants was or were the only defend
ant or defendants in the cause.]
Sec. 20. The said writ shall be framed, directed, executed and
returned, and like proceedings had, as in the case of a domestic attachinent except as to the appointment of auditors and distribution among
creditors ; for every plaintifff in a foreign attachment shall have the
benefit of his own discovery, and, after judgment, may proceed, by
order of sale, fieri facias, capias ad satisfaciendum or otherwise, as
on other judgments.
Provided, that before receiving any sum under such judgment,
the plaintifff shall enter into recognizance as required by section 13
preceding.
Sec. 21. All sales under this chapter shall be good against the
defendant, his executors, administrators and assigns ; and if action
be brought against any officer, or other person, acting under the
authority of this chapter, he may, under the general issue, give this
chapter in evidence in his justification.
Section i. A writ of foreign attachment may be issued out of the Superior Court of
this State against any corporation, aggregate or sole, not created by or existing under
the laws of this State, upon affidavit made by the plaintifff or any other credible person,
and filed with the prothonotary of said court, that the defendant is a corporation not
created by, or existing under the laws of this State, and is justly indebted to the said
plaintifff in a sum of money, to be specified in said affidavit, and which shall exceed
fifty dollars.
Sec. 2. The said writ shall be framed, directed, executed and returned, and like
proceedings had as in the case of a foreign attachment issued under the chapter to
which this act is a supplement, except that attachments to be issued under this act shall
be dissolved only in the manner hereinafter provided.
Sec. 3. In any attachments to be issued under this act, judgment shall be given for
the plaintifff at the second term after the issuing of the writ, unless the defendant shall
have caused an appearance by attorney to be entered, in which case the like proceed
ings shall be had, as in suits commenced against a corporation by summons : Pro
vided, however, if the defendant in the attachment, or any sufficient person for him,
shall, at any time before judgment, give security for the payment of any judgment thai
may be recovered in said proceedings with costs, then the garnishees and all the prop
erty attached, shall be discharged, and the attachment dissolved, and like proceedings
be had as in other cases of foreign attachment under the act to which this is a sup
plement, in which the attachment has been dissolved by special bail. Such security
shall be approved, and the form and amount thereof determined by the court in term
time, or by any judge thereof, in vacation : but the court may prescribe the form of
such security by general rule in that behalf.
Passed at Dover, March 2, /S37.
Amended March 17, iSySCHAPTER 532, Vol. 16, Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT IN RELATION TO ATTACHMENTS OF PROPERTY UNDER
MESNE PROCESS.
Section I. The Superior Court, in term time, or any judge in vacation, upon the
petition of any defendant or tenant whose property, rights or credits may be attached
under any mesne process of attachment issued out of said court or by a justice of the
peace, shall investigate the allegations contained in any affidavit required by law to be
made and filed before the issuing of such process except such allegations as relate to
the indebtedness of the defendants to the plaintifff, or the rent which the tenant is lo
pay or render, and when the same will be due.
Sec. 2. Reasonable notice in writing of the hearing upon such petition shall be
given to the party in whose favor such process issued, his attorney or agent.
Sec 3. If upon such investigation the court or judge shall consider that there was
not suffiicient ground for the attachment, the property, rights and credits attached shall
be discharged and the plaintifff or landlord shall pay the costs. The court or judg
shall have power to make and enforce all necessary and proper order in the premises.
Passed at Dover, March /j, iSSl.
CHAPTER CV.
OF THE SURVIVENCY OF ACTIONS.
Sec. x. Action does not abate on the death of
oneot several plaintifffs or defend
ants.
2. When the cause of action survives.
3. No abatement on death of an adminis
trator.
4. These provisions apply to writs of
error.
Sue, 5. Judgment may be executed by o
against a succeeding administrator.
He may be made a party on motion.
6. Statutory rights of action survive.
7. Administrator admitted party plaintifff
Act in relation to injuries or death by
unlawful violence, &c.
Section 1. Upon the death of one, or more, of several plaintifffs,
or defendants, in action, wherein the cause of action survives, such
action shall not abate, but may be prosecuted by, or against the eurviving
plaintifff, or defendant.
Sec. 2. In all personal actions, except actions for assault and
i -i . r . . ' . r . . ■
battery, defamation, malicious prosecution, or any injury to the person,
or upon penal statutes, the cause of action shall survive to and
against the executors, or administrators, of the person to, or against
whom the cause of action accrued. Accordingly, all actions, so sur
viving, may be instituted, or prosecuted, by, or against, the execu
tors, or administrators, of the original party. But this prOVlSIOn
shall not affect the survivorship among the original parties to a
joint cause of action.
Sec. 3. An action commenced by, or against, an executor, or administrator,
shall not be abated by his death, or removal from ofnee ; but a succeeding executor, or administrator, may be admitted
a party plaintifff, or made a party defendant, to such action.
Sec. 4. Writs of error are within the foregoing provisions.
Sec. 5. The benefit of a judgment for, or against, an executor, or
administrator, shall not be lost by his death, or removal from office ;
but proceedings may be had upon such judgment either at the suit*
of, or against a succeeding executor, or administrator.
An executor, or administrator, may be admitted a party plaintifff
to a judgment, on motion, without scire facias.
[He may also be admitted a party plaintifff by suggesting on thec
record the death of his testator, or intestate, in the same manner as
' »
m cases of suits pending.]
Sec. 6. A statutory right of action, or remedy, against any officer,
or person, in favor of any person, shall survive to, or against the0
executor, or administrator, of such officer, or person, unless it be
specially restricted in the statute.
Sec. 7. [That an executor or administrator, may be admitted a
a party plaintifff to a judgment in vacation, without scire facias, on
application to the prothonotary, by suggesting on the record the
death of his testator or intestate.]
CHAPTER 31, Vol. 13, Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT IN RELATION TO INJURIES OR DEATH OCCASIONED BY
UNLAWFUL VIOLENCE OR NEGLIGENCE.
Section i. That no action hereatter brought to recover damages for injuries to the
person by negligence or default, shall abate by reason of the death of the plaintifff ; but
the personal representatives of the deceased may be substituted as plaintifff and prose
cute the suit to final judgment and satisfaction.
Sec. 2. Whenever death shall be occasioned by unlawful violence or negligence,
and no suit be brought by the party injured to recover damages during his or her life,
the widow of any such deceased person, or if there be no widow, the personal repre
sentatives may maintain an action for and recover damages for the death thus occa
sioned.
Section 1. The judges of the Superior Court, or any three of
them, shall have power, by any rules to be, from time to time, by
them made, in term or vacation, to make such alterations in the
mode of pleading in said court, and in the mode of entering and
transcribing pleadings, judgments, and other proceeedings in actions
of law, and such regulations as to the payment of costs, and other
wise for carrying into effect the said alterations, as to them may
seem expedient : provided, that no such rule shall have the effect of
depriving any person of the power of pleading the general issue,
and of giving the special matter in evidence, in any case where such
power is, or shall be given by act of the general assembly.
Sec. 2. Such rules shall be so framed as to promote and require
conciseness, brevity and plainness in pleading, without regarding
form, further than it is necessary, or conducive to these objects.
Sec. 3. The said judges, shall also have power, by such rules, to
regulate the taking depositions, or excepting thereto, the distribuHon
of money in court, the order and manner of trying causes
and of pleading, of notices, and all other matters regulating the
practice and mode of conducting the business of said court, in all
cases not expressly provided for by lavv.
They shall, before the next fall term, revise the rules of said
court with a view to the attainment, as far as practicable, of thet
following improvements in practice :
First, simplifying and shortening the pleadings and other pro
ceedings ;
Second, presenting more distinctly the questions to be tried by a
jury, particularly in some of the actions on promises, by a more full
and precise statement in the declaration, or by a bill of particulars,
and by a more definite statement of the ground of defense ;
Third, excluding unnecessary and immaterial averments and
recitals, and prohibiting useless repetitions ;
Fourth, the expediting the decision of causes ;
Fifth, the diminishing of costs; and
Sixth, the remedying of all abuses and imperfections that may
be found to exist in the practice.
Sec. 4. (In all actions in the Superior Court upon bills, uotes,
bonds, or other instruments of writing for the payment of money,
or for the recovery of book accounts, on foreign judgments, and in
all actions (of) scire facias on recognizances in the Orphans' Court
and Court of Chancery, judgments or mortgages, judgment by de
fault shall be entered upon motion by the plaintifff or his attorney
on the last day of the regular term to which the original process is
returnable, notwithstanding appearance by the defendant, unless the
defendant, or if there be more than one, one or more of them shall
have previously filed in the cause an affidavit stating that he or
they verily believes or believe there is a legal defense to the whole
or part of such cause of action, and setting forth the nature and
character of the same ; if the defense be to a part only of the cause
of action, the defendant, or if there be more than one, any one or
more of them shall, in such affidavit, specify the sum which he or
they admits or admit to be due, and judgment shall be entered for
the plaintifff at his election for the sum acknowledged to be due ;
Provided, that no judgment shall be entered by virtue of this sec
tion unless the plaintifff, or if there be more than one, some one or
more of the plaintifffs shall, on or before the first day of the terra
to which the original process is returnable, file in the office of the
prothonotary a copy of the instrument of writing, book entries, or
claims, or in case of a scire facias, a certified abstract or transcript
„ . ' . , . , . r
of the judgment, or mortgage, or recognizance, and in case of a
suit on a foreign judgment a copy of said judgment, certified to un
der the act of Congress passed May 26, 1790, with an affidavit
stating the sum demanded, and that he or they verily believe that
the same is justly and truly due: And provided also, that upon
any judgment under this section a stay of execution for six months
gna|i granted on security being given by the defendant for the
payment of such judgment, with interest and costs, in such
form as by the rules of the court shall be prescribed. In case of
a suit by or against a corporation, the affidavit by the cashier or
treasurer shall be sufficient in this section. In case of security be
ing given as aforesaid by the defendant, the entry of such security
shall have all the force and effect of a judgment, and at the expi
ration of the stay given, the said judgments, with costs, may be
collected by execution process sued out jointly or severally against
said principal and surety. Any affidavit authorized under the pro
visions of this chapter may be taken out of this State before anv
.in /> 1 1 I • /> . « *
judge of any court of record, the mayor or chief magistrate of any
city or borough, a commissioner of deeds for this State, or any conbuI
or vice-consul of the United States, £or before any notary public
of any State or Territory within the United States or of the District
of Columbia,] such affidavit being certified under the hand and
official seal or seals of court, city or borough, as the case may be,
of the person taking the same.)
Upon sufficient cause shown, the court may open such judgment
and let the defendant into a trial, security being first given, in manner an(j form ^ aforesaid, for the payment of such judgment, with
interest and costs, as the plaintifff may recover in such action,
^n act;ions commenced by a capias ad respondendum, if special
bail be not given at the term to which the process is returnable, the
plaintifff may, at his election, on the last day of the terra, cause a
common appearance to be entered for the defendant, and move for
judgment under the provisions of this section, in like manner as if
special bail had been given as aforesaid.
The amount of a judgment by virtue of this section, shall be ascertained
under the order of the court, and shall not exceed the sum
demanded in the affidavit to be filed by the plaintifff as aforesaid
but if such judgment be not entered, any affidavit filed, under thi
section, by either party to the action, shall not be used in such
action for any purpose whatever.
[In any affidavit to be made under this section by the plaintifff in
any suit it shall be sufficient that such affidavit be made by the
party for whose use such suit was brought, or if there be more than
one by any one of such parties ]
Sec. 5. In any action brought upon any deed, bond, bill, note, or
other instrument of writing, a copy of which shall have been filed
with the declaration, the defendant not being an executor, or administrator,
shall not, on the trial, be allowed to deny his signature or that of any other party to the instrument, and the execution
of such instrument shall be taken to be admitted, unless the defendant shall have filed an affidavit, denying the signature, at the time
of filing his plea, or within such further time as the court shall, on
motion, allow.
Sec. 6. In any action by, or against partners, it shall notbenec-Pr
essary for the plaintifff, on the trial, to prove the partnership, but
the same shall be taken to be admitted as alleged on the record, unless
some one of the defendants shall, at or before the time of filing
his plea, file an affidavit, denying the existence of the partnership
as alleged, and stating, to the best of his knowledge and belief,
whether there is any partnership in relation to the subject matter
of the action, and who are the partners therein.
[And in any action by or against any corporation, it shall not be
necessary for the plaintifff or the trial to prove the incorporation and
r 1 • ■ 1 1111 1 1 1
existence 01 such corporation, but the same shall be taken to be admitted as alleged on the record unless the defendant, or when there
is more than one defendant, some one of the defendants shall have
filed, at or before the time of filing the plea in such action, an affidavit
denying the existence of the corporation as alleged. Such affidavit
may be made by the president, secretary, treasurer, cashier or any
director of any corporation defendant.]
Sec. 7. In any action ou a forfeited recognizance, or bond, to
keep the peace, or for the appearance of a defendant, or of a witness,
in the Court of General Sessions of the Peace and Jail Delivery,
or in the Court of Oyer and Terminer, if a copy of the bond,
or recognizance, shall have been filed on or before the return day of
the writ, and the service of such writ be duly verified, the attorney
general or other attorney on behalf of the State, or plaintifff, shall
beat liberty to move for judgment in open court ou the last day
of the term to which such writ is returnable, unless the defendant,
or some one for him, shall have filed an affidavit of defense, stat
ing therein the nature and character of the same.
Sec. 8. [In all actions at law wherein the plaintifff is a non-resi-cha
dent in qui tarn actions, in actions upon administration or official
bonds, and also in actions wherein the plaintifff, after suit brought,
has been discharged under any bankrupt or insolvent law, the
defendant, upon motion, and affidavit filed, that he has a legal and
just defeuce to the whole of the plaintifff's demand therein, and stat
ing the nature and character of such defense, the sufficiency whereof
shall be determined by the court, may have a rule for security for
cost by a certain day, or that non suit be entered. Such security,
where ordered, may bby bond, recognizance or deposit of money
with the prothonotary, to be approved by the court when in session,
or by the prothonotary or any judge in vacation. And the said court,
prothonotary or judge may at any time thereafter, forcause shown,
change or increase such security.]
Sec. 9. No cause, at issue and advertised for trial by jury, shall
be continued without an affidavit that the defendant has a just, or
legal defense to the action, or some part of it ; and for want of such
affidavit, judgment shall be rendered for the plaintifff.
Sec. 10. In actions of trespass quare clausum /regit, the close, ur
place of the alleged trespass shall be designated in the declaration
by name, or abuttals, or other proper description.
Sec. 11. In all actions on the case, it shall be no objection to
maintaining such actions that, but for this section, the form thereof
should have been trespass ; and in all actions of trespass it shall be
no objection to maintaining such actions that, but for this section,
the form thereof should have been case.
Sec. 1 2. It shall not be deemed necessary, in any declaration, or
other pleading, to lay the venue in the county in which the action
is brought, nor to set forth in any manner the place in which an
act is alleged to have been done, unless when, from the nature of
the case, the place may be material, or traversable.
Sec. 13. When any deed, note, or other iustrument, bears date
at any place, it may be alleged to have been made at that place,
without any averment, or suggestion, that it was within the county
in which the action is brought.
Sec. 14. All allegations heretofore usually inserted in declarations
and other pleadings, which are not material, or traversable, and
which the party could not be required to prove, may be omitted ;
unless when they are required for the right understanding of alle
gations that are material.
Sec. 15. On the issuing of a writ of certiorari to a justice of the
peace, the party applying therefore, shall enter into a recognizance
to the defendant in a reasonable penalty, and with sufficient surety
to be approved by the prothonotary, with condition to be void it
the plaintifff therein shall prosecute said writ to effect and pay the
condemnation money and all costs, or otherwise abide the judgment
of the Superior Court in the case, if he fail to make his plea good.
The recognizance shall be entered by the prothonotary in the
docket where the certiorari is entered, and a note of the recogni
zance having been taken, shall be indorsed on the writ, or the jus
tice shall not obey it.
No further surety shall be required, although other writs may
be issued to complete the record ; but the court may order better
security.
Sec. 16. When an appeal is taken from the Orphans' Court to
the Superior Court, one of the judges of the Orphans' Court shall,
at the request of the party appealing, sign a paper, in the nature of
a bill of exceptions, presenting fairly and fully the points decided,
for which the exception is taken.
Sec. 17. On a writ of error to the Superior Court, or an appeal
ii l ii i • i r *
grom the chancery, security shall be given as heretofore.*
Sec. 18. On the hearing of a petition for freedom, the testimony
may, in the election of the defendant, be reduced to writing by a^
judge, or other person named by the court, to be read in the Court
of Errors and Appeals in case of an appeal ; or the same witnesses
may be heard in the appellate court.
Sec. 19. Whenany goods, or chattels, shall beunlawfully detained
*
from the owner, or the person entitled to the possession thereof,
such owner, or person, may have remedy by action of replevin.
Sec. 20. An action of replevin shall lie to recover goods and
chattels seized by virtue of any process of execution, or attachment,
with damages and costs for the taking and detention thereof, against
the officer seizing the same, at the suit of the owner of such goods
and chattels not being the defendant in the execution, or attach
ment, the proper pledges and security being given, as in other cases,
by the plaintifff in the replevin, before delivery to him of the goods
and chattels replevied.
CHAPTER 220, Vol. 18, Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT IX RELATION TO THE ACTION OF REPLEVIN.
Whereas, It often happens that the benefit of the action of replevin is lost by the
necessity of a formal demand before suit brought, whereby the property is eloigned
before process can be served on the defendant, thereforee for the remedy thereof.
Section I. That in all actions of replevin now pending or hereafter to be brought,
no proof of demand shall be necessary, but the bringing of the suit shall be considered
a sufficient demand for all purposes, and the failure at the trial to prove any demand
shall not be a cause for non-suit, nor shall such failure inure in anywise whatsoever
to the benefit or advantage of the defendant or defendants in the suit.
Passed at Dover, April 21, 1887.
Sec. 21. Mutual debts between parties to an action, due, at the
time of action brought, in the same right, and being for asurab
liquidated, or which can be ascertained by calculation, may be the
subject of set-off in such action.
Sec. 22. If either party sue, or be sued, as an executor, or ad
ministrator, and there are mutual debts between the testator, intes
tate, and the other party, one debt may be set off against the other,
^EC- ^ tne defendant in an action, having a demand against
the plaintifff which is the subject of the set-off to the plaintifff's cause
of action, shall, before suit brought, have tendered to the plaintifff
' a statement of such demand, or the written evidence of it where it
is evidenced by writing, as in case of a note, bill, bond, &c, and
shall also have tendered to the plaintifff as much money as upon
trial shall be found due to him over and above the set-off, such
plaintifff shall suffer non-suit and pay the costs.
Sec. 24. An action brought by, or in the name of any public
officer, shall not abate by his death, resignation, removal from office,
or the expiration of his term, but may be prosecuted by his succes
sor, if there be a successor who might have originally commenced
and prosecuted the like action,
^EC" ^ jurJ may> 10 anv case> a general or special verdiet.
Sec. 26. Papers read
-, r . .
in evidence to the jury, although not under
be carried from the bar by the jury.
seal, except depositions,- may
Sec. 27. Payment of money contained in the condition of an
obligation, or any part thereof, and also payment of money due by
judgment, single bill, or other specialty, or any part thereof, is and
shall be pleadable in an action on such obligation, judgment, bill or
specialty, although such payment may not be evidenced by instru
ment under seal, or may not have been made strictly according to
the condition of the obligation.
Sec. 28. The marriage of a female plaintifff shall not abate the
action.
Her husband may be made a party, on motion ; and, on the de
fendant's motion, proceedings shall be stayed until he become a
party, unless there be another responsible plaintifff.
Sec 29. A guardian shall be admitted to sue and defend for his
ward. An infant may also sue by his next friend. In no suit at
law, or in equity, shall the parol demur, or proceedings be deferred,
because of the infancy of a party plaintifff, or defendant.
Sec. 30. If, pending an action, either party shall become insane,
the action may be prosecuted, or defended, by his trustee, or the
court may appoint a guardian (id litem as the case may appear.
[Sec. 31. That whenever any business is transacted in this State
by an unincorporated association of persons using a common name,
(ordinary partnerships excepted,) suits may be brought and the
pleadings conducted against the individuals composing such assoeiat'on
by such common name, and judgment recovered therein shall
l)e a lien like other judgments, and may be executed by levy, seiz
ure and sale of the personal and real estate of such association, and
also that of the said persons in the same manner with respect to
them as if they had been made parties defendant by their individual
name^; satisfaction thereof may also be obtained by attachment
process. And after the first day of Julv next, no unincorporated
association of persons (partnerships as aforesaid excepted,) shall
transact business in this State unless the individual names of all
concerned therein shall be first certified by an officer of such asso
ciation to the prothonotary of each county, to be filed in his oflfice ;
any person violating this provision shall forfeit and pay five hundred
dollars to any person who will sue for the same.
Sec. 32. No declaration shall be necessary, nor shall any cognovit
be required for the confession of any judgment; and every warrant of attorney authorizing the confession of judgment, whether
after declaration filed or otherwise, shall be taken to authorize such
confessions without the filing of any such declarations.
Sec. 33. No judgment D. S. B., heretofore entered, shall be taken
to be invalid because it does not appear that any declaration or cognovit
was filed prior to the entering of the same, but whenever
such declaration is required by the bond on which such judgment
was entered, the court before whom any question shall be raised
about the validity of such judgment for want of such declaration
shall allow such declaration to be filed, nunc pro tunc, and the filing
thereof, by virtue of such allowance, shall have the same effect as
if it had been filed as the authority for the entering of such judg
ment.]
[Sec. 34. The defendant in any action now pending, or which
shall be brought in the Superior Court for the recovery of money,
or of any goods, chattels, or the value thereof in damages, which
» a
shall have come lawfully to his hands or possession, may, at any
time after the declaration filed, and before plea pleaded, by a suggestion
to be filed of record, disclaim all interest in the subject matter of such action, and offer to bring the same into court, or to pay
or dispose thereof as the court shall order ; and if he shall also al
lege, under oath or affirmation, that the right thereto is claimed by
or supposed to belong to some person not party to the action (naming him or them), who has sued or is expected to sue for the same,
or shall show some probable matter to the court to believe thatj
such suggestion is true, the said court may, thereupon, order the
plaintifff to interplead with such third person, and make such rules
and orders in the cause, and issue such process for the purpose of
making such third person party to the action, and for carrying such
proceeding to interplead into full and complete effect, and may
render such judgment or judgments thereon as shall be agreeable to
the rules and practice of the law in like cases.
Sec. 35. If the process issued upou an order to interplead as
aforesaid shall not be actually served, or personal notice thereof
shall not be given to such third person, the said court shall have
power, upon giving judgment for the plaintifff, to require him to
enter into a recognizance, and if they shall think it necessary with
sufficient surety, to interplead with such third person if afterwards
and before the expiration of the time which would be allowed to
him to prosecute his claim against the defendant such third person
should appear in the said court and claim such money, or such
goods or chattels, or the value thereof.]
CHAPTER 219, Vol. 17, Laws of Delaware..
AN ACT IN REGARD TO PLEADING IN CIVIL AND CRIMINAL CASES.
Section I. That in all cases, civil and criminal, in which any or either party shall
demur to any indictment, declaration, plea, replication, rejoinder, surrejoinder, or
other plea of any description of the opposite party, and the said demurrer shall be over
ruled, the party demurring shall have the right to plead over to the facts of the case by
way of traverse or otherwise without withdrawing his demurrer ; and upon appeal or writ
of error shall have the questions of law arising upon the demurrer decided and deter
mined as fully to every intent as if the party demurring had not pleaded over. Pro
vided that at the time of filing such demurrer the same shall be accompanied by a cer
tificate of the counsel filing the same that the said demurrer, in his opinion, is good in
law and is not filed for purposes of delay.
Sec. 2. That all laws or parts of laws inconsistent with this act be and the same are
hereby repealed.
Passed at Dover, March 14, iSSj.
CHAPTER CVIL
OF WITNESSES AND EVIDENCE.*
i. Witnesses liable to party for not at
tending.
2. Competency of corporators,
j Special bail ; how made competent.
4. Free negroes and mulattoes ; when
competent.
Act in reference to competency of cer
tain persons.
Accused to testify in their own behalf
5. Acts of assembly ; how proved.
6. Acts of other States.
7 Common law of other States ; how
proved.
B. Proof of foreign laws,
Sec, 9. Certain Maryland land records, evi
dence.
10. On being recorded here, copy of re
cord, evidence.
Act providing for proof of ordinances
of Wilmington.
11. Book of original entries evidence
with party's oath .
Subject to cross examination.
12. Evidence of the incorporation or i
bank.
13. Party may be required to produce his
books in evidence.
14. Copies of records, evidence.
Additional acts.
DEFAULT OF WITNESSES.
Section 1. If any person, duly summoned by process to attend
a w'tness before any court, magistrate, or other officer, lawfully
authorized to issue the same, shall, without reasonable excuse, fail
to attend, according to the direction of such process ; or attending
shall refuse to testify when required by such court, magistrate, or
other officer, he shall be liable to the aggrieved party for all dam
ages occasioned by such failure, or refusal, to be recovered in an
action on the case.
COMPETENCY OF CERTAIN WITNESSES.
Sec. 2. When any corporation shall be a party to, or interested
in an action, or proceeding, whether of a civil, or criminal nature,
a person shall not, by being a member of such corporation, be ren
dered incompetent to testify in such action or proceeding.
Sec. 3. A person who is disqualified to testify in an action, by s
reason of having become the special bail of a defendant, or surety ^
in a replevin bond, or in an appeal from a justice of the
peace, or for costs, may be discharged by order of the court, so as to
be sworn as a witness : provided another sufficient bail, or surety, be
first substituted in his stead, to be liable in like manner and to the
same extent as he would have been. Such substituted security shall
be taken in such form as the court may order.
Sec. 4. In criminal prosecutions, a free negro, or free mulatto, if
otherwise competent, may testify, if it shall appear to the court that
no competent white witness was present at the time the fact charged
is alleged to have been committed ; or that a white witness, being so
present, has since died, or is absent from the State and cannot be
produced : provided, that no free negro, or free mulatto, shall be admittedas
a witness, to charge a white man with being the father of
a bastard child.
CHAPTER 598, Vol. 11, Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT IN REFERENCE TO- THE COMPETENCY OF CERTAIN PER
SONS AS WITNESSES.
Section I. That a party to the record in any action or judicial proceeding, or a
person for whose immediate benefit such proceeding is prosecuted or defended, may be
examined as if under cross-examination, at the instance of the adverse party, or any of
them, and for that purpose may be compelled in the same manner, and subject to the
same rules of examination, as any other witness to testify ; but the party calling for
such examination shall not be excluded thereby, but may rebut his testimony by other
evidence.
Sec. 2. That a party proposing to examine a party adverse in interest may have the
same process and means of compelling attendance and response, as the law provides in
the case of ordinary witnesses.
SEC. 3. That no person shall be excluded from testifying as a witness by reason of
his having been convicted of a felony, but evidence of the fact may be given to affect his
_
credibility.
Section I . No person shall be incompetent to testify in any civil action or proceed m„
whe(her at law or in equity, because he is a party to the record or interested in the
° * J 1 r ■
event of the suit or matter to be determined : Provided, that in actions or proceedings
or "g"'"8'' executors, administrators or guardians in which judgment or decree may
be rendered for or against them, neither party shall be allowed to testify against the
other as to any transaction with or statement by the testator, intestate or ward unless
called to testify thereto by the opposite party.
Sec 2 ♦#»■**»#
Passed at Dover, April 6, 1881.
CHAPTER 777, Vol. 19, Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT PERMITTING PERSON8 ACCUSED OF CRIME TO TESTIFY IN
THEIR OWN BEHALF.
Section I. That from and after the passage of this act each and every person accused or who shall be accused of any felony, misdemeanor or offense whatsoever, punishable
by the laws of this State now or hereafter in force shall, upon his or her trial
before any tribunal established by the constitution or laws of this State, have the right
to testify in his or her own behalf, and shall also have the right to testify for or against
, J . . , , , ,
any other person or persons jointly tried with mm or her ; provided, however, that a
remsal or failure to testify shall not be construed or commented upon as an indication
of guilt.
Passed at Dover, May 4, 18Q3.
PROOF OF LAWS, &C.
Sec. 5. The printed copies of the acts and resolutions of the
. 1111/. it . 11.11
general assembly, whether of a public or private nature, published
by authority of the State, shall be admitted as evidence thereof in
ail courts of law, or equity, and on all occasions whatever.
Sec. 6. Printed copies of statutes of any other of the United
States, if purporting to be published under the authority of their
respective governments, or if commonly admitted and read as evi
dence in their courts, shall be prima facie evidence of such law.
Sec. 7. The common, or unwritten, law of any other of the
United States, may be proved as facts by parol evidence ; and the
reports of cases adjudged in their courts, and published by authority,
may also be admitted as evidence of such law.
^EC- ^- ^e ex'stencei aQd the tenor, or effect, of all foreign laws,
may be proved as facts by parol evidence ; but if it shall appear
that the law in question is contained in a written statute, or code,
the court may, in its discretion, reject any evidence of such law,
that is not accompanied by a copy thereof.
Sec. 9. All records, surveys, patents, deeds, or other instruments
of writing, or exemplifications of office books, touching the
title to any lands and tenements in this State, which are kept in any
public office in the State of Maryland, may be proved by copies
thereof, attested by the officer having legal custody of the same and
the seal of his office ; and being so proved shall have such faith
and credit given to them in all courts of law, or equity, in this
State, as they have in the courts of the State of Maryland.
Sec. 10. Any copy, authenticated as before provided, of such
records, surveys, patents, deeds, or other instruments of writing,
and exemplifications of office books, touching the title to lands and
tenements in any county of this State, being recorded in the office
of the recorder of such county, such record, or a duly certified copy
thereof, shall be evidence in all courts of law, or equity, in this
State.
CHAPTER 30, Vol. 13, Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT PROVIDING FOR THE PROOF OF THE ORDINANCES AND
RESOLUTIONS OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF WILMINGTON.
Section i. The printed copies of the Ordinances and Resolutions of the City Council
of Wilmington, whether of a public or private nature, published by authority of " the
City Council," shall be admitted as evidence thereof in all courts of law or equity,
and on all occasions whatever, and in pleading it shall not be necessary to recite or
draw them out at large.
Passed at Dover, January 25, /S66.
OTHER MATTERS.
Sec. 11. A book of original entries, regularly and fairly kept,
shall, together with the oath, or affirmation, of the plaintifff, be admitted in evidence to charge the defendant with the sums therein
contained for goods sold and delivered, and other matters properly
chargeable in an account. Cash items are not properly so chargea
ble. Such book may, in like manner, be admitted, with the oath,
or affirmation, of a defendant, to establish a set-off.
Provided, that the party p roving his book of original entries
shall be subject to cross-examination touching the same, and theen-eM
tries therein, and the transactions to which such entries relate.
Sec. 12. In criminal proceedings, it shall be prima facia evidence of the incorporation of a bank, that it has been reputed to
be an incorporated bank, or has issued notes as a bank.
Sec. 13- In the trial of actions at law, the court on motion and
due notice thereof , may order a party to produce books, or writings,
in his posession or control, which contain evidence pertinent to the
issue, under circumstances in which the production of the same
might be compelled by a Court of Chancery ; and the court
making such order, shall have the same power for enforcing it
which is exercised by a Court of Chancery in like cases. Upon
failure of a plaintifff to comply with such order, the court, on
motion, may render judgment against him as in cases of non-suit ;
and upon a like failure of a defendant, the court, on motion, may
render judgment against him by default,
Sec. 14. A copy of any record, or paper, belonging to a public
0^ce> or legally in the custody of a public officer, being made under
the hand of the officer and his seal of office, if there be such seal,
shall be deemed to be duly certified, and shall be competent evi
dence.
CHAPTER 449, Vol. 11, Laws of Delawake.
AN ACT TO ADMIT TESTIMONY ON TRIAL OF INDICTMENT FOR
LIBEL.
Section I . That from and after the passage of this act, on the trial of indictments
for writing or publishing a libel, the truth of the matter charged as libelous may be
given in evidence ; and if the jury, in any such case, shall find that the act was induced
by good motives, and with no malicious intent, and that the matter so charged is true, it
shall operate to the acquittal of defendant or defendants.
Sec. 2. That in actions for damages for the writing or publishing a libel, where the
truth is pleaded and given in evidence, if it be found that the same was written or pub
lished properly for public information, and with no malicious or mischievous motives,
the jury may find for the defendant or defendants.
Passed at Dover, March 4, 1857.
CHAPTER 536, Vot. 16, Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT RELATING TO THE PROOF OF THE GENUINENESS OF DIS
PUTED WRITINGS.
Section I. Comparison of a disputed writing with any writing proved to the satis
faction of the court to be genuine, shall be permitted to be made by witness in all trials
and proceedings ; and such writings and the evidence of witnesses respecting the same
may be submitted to the court and jury as evidence of the genuineness or otherwise of
the writing in dispute.
Passed at Dover. March 32, rSSi.
CHAPTER CVIIL
OF OATHS.
Sec. x. Who may administer oaths generally.
3. To members of the legislature.
3. To witnesses before legislature
4. Commissioners under order of court.
Surveyors; chain carriers.
Forma to be supplied.
5. Oath on the Evangels,
fi With uplifted hands.
. 7.
8. Oath of Heathens.
9. Who may administer oath out of the
State.
Act authorizing deputy sheriffs to ad
minister.
Act authorizing the clerks of the United
States Courts to administer.
Section 1. The chancellor, any judge, justice of the peace, or
notary public, shall have authority, in any case in which an oath,
or affirmation, is necessary, or proper, to administer such oath, or
affirmation.
Sec. 2. The proper oaths of office may be administered to members
of* either house of the general assembly by any other member
of the same branch ; and to the clerk and sergeant-at-arms of
either house, by the speaker thereof.
Sec. 3. Witnesses to be examined before either house, may be
sworn, or affirmed, by the speaker thereof, or if to be examined be-b
fore a committee, then by any member of such committee.
Sec. 4. The persons appointed, or authorized, by any decree,
order, rule, or commission, made in, or issued out of the Court of
Errors and Appeals, the Court of Chancery, the Superior Court, the
Court of General Sessions of the Peace and Jail Delivery, or the
Orphans' Court, to perform any duty, or for any purpose, shall
severally have authority to administer to each other and to any sur
veyor, or person, by them employed, and to any witness produced
before them, any oath, or affirmation, required or proper to be taken
in the case.
Every surveyor shall have authority to administer the proper
oath, or affirmation, to chain carriers acting under him.
The form of oath, or affirmation, required to be taken by persons
appointed, or authorized, as aforesaid, with directions for adminis-su
tering the same, shall accompany every commission, rule, or order,
issued out of any court as aforesaid.
Sec. 5. The usual oath in this State, shall be by swearing upon
the Holy Evangels of Almighty God ; the person to whom it is
administered laying his right hand upon the book, and kissing it.
Sec. 6. A person may be permitted to swear with the uplifted
hand ; that is to say, he shall lift up his right hand and swear by
the ever living God, the searcher of all hearts, that, &c, and at the
end of the oath shall say, "as I shall answer to God at the Great
Day."
Sec. 7. A person conscientiously scrupulous of taking an oath,
may be permitted, instead of swearing, solemnly, sincerely and
truly to declare and affirm to the truth of the matters to be testified.
Sec. 8. A person believing in any other than the Christian religion, may be sworn according to the peculiar ceremonies of his reli
gion, if there be any such.
[Sec. 9. In all legal proceedings in this State wherein an oath or
affidavit is required to be made by any person not residing in this
State, such oath or affidavit may be administered and certified in
the same manner and by the same persons as the laws of this State
prescribe for taking the acknowledgment of deeds or the probate of
accounts against a deceased person's estate where the said acknowl
edgement or probate is made out of this State.]
Section i. That it shall and may be lawful for the respective sheriffs of the several
counties of this State now holding office, or hereafter to be elected, to appoint depu
ties, who shall have full power and authority to administer oaths in all cases in which,
by the laws of this State, an oath is authorized and required to be administered by the
sheriff, and that, in all cases in which the oath is administered by a deputy now ap
pointed, whose appointment is recorded in the recorder's office in and for the county
in which the sheriff and deputy reside, and in all cases in which the oath shall be ad
ministered by an appointed deputy hereafter made and recorded as aforesaid, the oath
so administered, or to be administered shall be as effectual in law as though it had
been done by the sheriff himself from whom the appointment issued.
Passed at Dover, January jo, 1862.
CHAPTER 14, Vol. 13, Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT AUTHORIZING THE CLERKS OF THE UNITED STATES
COURT FOR THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE TO ADMINISTER
OATHS AND AFFIRMATIONS AND TAKE ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF
WRITINGS.
SECTION I. That the Clerk of the Circuit Court of the United States, and the Clerk
of the District Court of the United States, for the District of Delaware, shall be and
they are hereby authorized to administer oaths and affirmations and to take acknowl
edgment of the execution of instruments of writing in this State which are to be used
in their respective courts or in any District or Circuit Court in the United States.
Section 1. All persons qualified to vote at the general election,
shall be liable to serve as jurors ; except public officers of this State,
or of the United States, counsellors and attorneys at law, ordained
ministers of the gospel, officers of colleges and teachers in public
schools, practising physicians and surgeons regularly licensed,
cashiers of incorporated banks, and all persons who are more than
seventy years of age.
[Sec. 2. The levy court for each counly shall, at its annual
session in March, select from the list of taxable citizens of such
county, in such proportion for each hundred as may be deemed
proper, the names of one hundred sober and judicious persons, to
serve (if summoned) as Grand Jurors at the several courts to be
holden in that year; and also the names of one hundred and fifty
other sober a^l judicious persons, to serve (if summoned) as Petit
Jurors at the several courts, other than the Courts of Quarter Sesill /» 1
sicus,* to be holden in that year ; and also the names 01 one huudred and twenty other sober and judicious persons to serve (if sum
moned) as jurors to the Court of Quarter Sessions to be holden in
that year. There shall be provided for each hundred, three boxes,
one of which shall be marked or labelled " Grand Jurors," another,
"Petit Jurors," and the other "Quarter Sessions Jurors,"* and
each with the names of the hundred. The names of the persons
selected as aforesaid, shall be written each on a separate ballot, all
the ballots being of the same color, size and shape, aud the ballots
shall be folded so as to conceal the names written upon them.
Those containing the names of persons selected for Grand Jurors
shall be deposited in the boxes marked "Grand Jurors," the names
selected from each hundred being placed in the box of that hundred
; in like manner the names of persons selected for Petit
Jurors shall be deposited in the boxes marked "Petit Jurors," the
names selected from each hundred l>eing placed in the box of that
hundred; in like manner the names of persons selected for Quarter
Sessions Jurors* shall be deposited in the boxes marked " Quarter
Sessions Jurors," the names selected from each hundred being
placed in the box of that hundred*; after which the boxes shall be
locked and delivered to the prothonotary, and the keys shall bel
kept by the clerk of the peace. The levy court shall preserve
lists of the persons so selected for jurors, and shall deliver to theo
said prothonotary, with the boxes aforesaid, copies of said lists
signed by the chairman of the court, and countersigned by the
clerk thereof, showing the number selected from each hundred.]
CHAPTER 558, Vol. 14, Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT RELATING TO PETIT JURORS OF NEW CASTLE COUNTY.
Section i. That the number of petit jurors now provided for and required by law
in each county be increased in and for New Castle county, to double such number, and
^e ^rSt '^fty persons drawn according to law shall constitute and be denominated the
first panel of petit jurors, who shall, if summoned, attend at the then next term of the
Superior Court or Court of General Sessions, and shall, unless previously discharged.
serve as petit jurors thereof for the first [sixteen] secular days of the said term, when
they shall be discharged, unless they, or any one of them, are empaneled for the trial
of a cause, in which case the jurors so empaneled shall continue to serve until the
rendition of the verdict in such cause or a discharge from the court. And the remain
ing thirty petit jurors provided for and selected as aforesaid shall constitute and be denominated the [third] panel of petit jurors, and shall be summoned to attend the said
courts 0n the second Friday of the term aforesaid and they shall, if summoned, attend
J '
the courts aforesaid, on the day last aforesaid and serve as petit jurors thereof for the
remainder of the term aforesaid. And all the petit jurors aforesaid shall be subject to
t r * t'
all the provisions of law respecting petit jurors that are not inconsistent herewith.
Passed al Dover, March icf, 1873.
Sec. 3. The levy court, in selecting the names of persons to be
drawn for jurors in any year, shall omit the names of any who niav
J J J »
have served as grand jurors tor the next previous year.
Sec. 4. The prothonotary and clerk of the peace shall, within
ten days after the delivery of the said boxes to the prothonotary as
above provided, meet in the prothonotary's office, and first shaking
the boxes so as to intermix the ballots, shall, in the presence of
such persons as may choose to be present, draw from the box
marked " Grand Jurors," in the same proportion for each hundred
in which they were selected by the levy court, the names of twentyfour persons to be summoned as grand jurors for that year.
Sec. 5. The prothonotary and clerk of the peace shall, at least
twenty days before the commencement of each term of the Superior
Court, and Court of General Sessions for the county, in like man
ner draw from the boxes marked " Petit Jurors," in the same pro
portion for each hundred in which they were selected by the levy
court, the names of thirty persons to serve as petit jurors at the en
suing term of said courts.
Sec. 6. If, at the drawing of jurors under the two foregoing seetions,
the name of any person exempt by law from serving as a
juror, or who is absent from the State, be drawn ; or if at the draw
ing for petit jurors, the name of a person- who shall have served a?
a petit juror at the next preceding term of the said courts, or who
shall have any matter of fact at issue pending for trial at the en
suing term of said court, be drawn, such name shall be returned to
the box, and another drawn in its stead. If a person having any
matter of fact at issue as aforesaid, be drawn and summoned con
trary to the foregoing provision, he shall be subject to be chal
lenged.
Sec. 7. If, at any drawing for petit jurors, the prothonotary, or
clerk of the peace, be a party to any issue of fact for trial at the
, /• • i • •
ensuing term of said courts, or if, at any drawing for grand or petit
jurors, either of the said officers be absent, his place shall be sup
plied by the recorder of deeds for the county, who shall receive for
his service the same compensation and be subject to the same penal
ties for default as by law is provided in the case of the prothonotary,
or clerk of the peace.
Sec. 8. The officers drawing for grand and petit jurors as aforesaid,
shall, immediately thereafter, deliver to the sheriff of the
county a correct list of names of the persons so drawn, with the
date of the drawing indorsed thereon.
Sec. 9. The said boxes shall, immediately after any drawing for
jurors, be locked and kept by the prothonotary, the keys being deliveretl into the custody of the clerk of the peace.
Sec. 10. The sheriff of the county, upon receiving a list of thes
persons drawn for grand jurors as aforesaid, shall, at least ten
days before the next ensuing term of the Court of General Sessions
for his county, summon in writing each of the said persons to serve
as the standing grand jurors for that year at the said court. He
shall, in like manner, upon receiving a list of persons drawn for
petit jurors as aforesaid, at least ten days before the next ensuing
term of the Superior Court, and Court of General Sessions, sum
mon in writing each of the said persons to serve as petit jurors at
the then next term of the said courts respectively.
The sheriff shall, within one hour after the opening of said courts
respectively, on the first day of every term, return to each of sjiid
courts a separate and distinct panel of persons summoned to attend
thereat as grand, or petit jurors, showing the christian and sur
names, and places of abode of such jurors.
Sec. 11. The grand jurors for the year, drawn as aforesaid, shall
be summoned and returned to attend, as grand jurors, at any Court
of Oyer and Terminer, when the precept for holding such court di
rects a grand jury to be summoned.
For any Court of Oyer and Terminer, [fifty-four] petit jurors shall,
upon notice from the sheriff to the prothonotary and clerk of the
peace that such court is to be held, be drawn, summoned and returned according to the foregoing provisions for drawing, summon
ing and returning petit jurors for the Superior Court and Court of
General Session : provided, that if the day assigned for holding
a Court of Oyer and Terminer, shall be at a time when a petit jury
is in attendance upon the Superior Court [or] Court of General Sessions,
such jury shall constitute a part of the panel of the petit
jurors to be summoned to attend the said Court of Oyer and Ter
miner, and only the residue of the said number of [fifty-four] jurors
shall be drawn according to the foregoing provisions.
Sec. 1 2. The grand jurors shall, at every term of any court which
they shall attend during the year for which they are drawn, be severally sworn, or affirmed, to the faithful discharge of their duty and
trust.
Sec. 13. If at any court, a sufficient number of grand, or petit
jurors, drawn aud summoned as aforesaid, do not appear ; or if the
panel returned by the sheriff be quashed by the court, the court
may award a tales de circunuttantibus, or make such other order
as it may deem expedient, for filling up the requisite number of
jurors to serve at such court.
In like manner, a deficiency of petit jurors may be supplied,
when by reason of challenges, or otherwise, a sufficient number are
not ready for the trial of a cause.
Sec. 14. The prothonotary, or clerk of the peace, shall, under
the direction of the judges presiding, write the name of each petit
juror, returned and empannelled as aforesaid, upon a distinct bal
lot, all the ballots being of the same color and size ; and shall roll
up the said ballots, all in the same manner, as near as may be, and
put them together in a box to be provided for the purpose.
When a cause is called for trial, an indifferent person shall, in
open court, draw out twelve of the said ballots successively ; and if
any of the jurors, whose names are so drawn, shall not appear, or
shall be challenged and set aside, then a further number shall be
drawn, until twelve jurors appear, and, upon challenge, are al
lowed.
The said twelve persons first drawn, appearing and allowed, their
names being marked in the panel, and they being sworn, or affirmed,
shall be the jury to try the cause.
The names of the persons so sworn, or affirmed, shall be kept
apart in another box to be provided for the purpose, until the ver
dict of such jury shall have been rendered and recorded, or until
the jury shall be discharged by the court; when the same names
shall be rolled up and returned to the first mentioned box, to be
kept with the other names remaining then undrawn ; and so totie?
quoties, as long as any cause remains for trial.
Sec. 15. If, before the discharge of a jury empanneled in a
cause, another cause shall be called for trial, a jury to try such other
cause may be drawn from the residue of the ballots not containing
the names of the jurors drawn.
SPECIAL juries.
Sec. 16. A special jury for the trial of a cause, shall be ordered
by the court upon the application of either party, and the mode of
striking the same shall be as follows, viz : The party applying for
the special jury shall give due notice to the opposite party, and to
the prothonotary, of the time and place of striking such jury; at
which time and place the prothonotary, or his deputy, or if the pro
thonotary be not indifferent between the parties, then two proper
persons indifferent between the parties, appointed by the court, or
any judge, shall attend with a list of forty-eight indifferent and
judicious citizens of the county, qualified to serve as jurors, show
ing their names and places of abode. The party applying for the
special jury, his agent, or attorney, shall first strike out one of said
names, and then the opposite party, his agent, or attorney, shall
strike out another; and so on, until each shall have struck out
twelve. If the opposite party shall not attend, nor any person on
his behalf, or shall refuse to strike, the prothonotary, or his deputy,
or the persons appointed to strike the jury, as the case may be, shall
strike for the party not attending, or refusing to strike. After each
party shall have struck twelve names, the remaining twenty-four
persons on said list shall be the jury to be r°turned for the cause ;
and the prothonotary, or his deputy, or the persons appointed to
strike the jury, as the case may be, shall thereupon deliver to the
sheriff a certified list of the names of such persons, with their places
of abode, as the jurors to be summoned for the cause, annexed to a
venire facias commanding him to summon them ; and the sheriff
shall, thereupon, summon the persons named, according to the com
mand of said writ, and shall return the said list with the venire.
Sec. 17. At the trial of the cause, a special jury shall be drawn
from the list, returned under the foregoing section, in the manner
provided for other cases.
Sec. 18. The party applying for a special jury, shall pay the expenses occasioned by the trial of the cause by such special jury, and
the same shall not be allowed to him as part of the cost in the case,
unless the court shall, immediately after the trial of the cause, cer
tify upon the record that the said cause was proper to be tried by a
special jury. The court, in its discretion, may order payment of
the costs of striking and summoning a special jury, or any part
thereof, before the trial of the cause wherein such jury shall be
summoned.
Sec. 19. In all civil suits each parLy may, by himself, or attorney, challenge, without cause, any juror, or jurors, drawn for the
trial of the cause, not exceeding three in uumber, and the deficiency,
so created, shall be supplied by drawing as many additional names
as are necessary to make up a full jury to try the cause. .
Sec. 20. Upon the motion of either party, the jury may be taken
to view the premises, or place, in question, or to which the controversy relates, when it shall appear to the court that such view is
necessary to a just decision: provided, the party making the appli
cation, shall advance a sum sufficient to defray the expenses of the jury
and the officers who attend them in taking the view; which ex penses shall be afterward taxed as part of the costs in the case, if the
party advancing them shall prevail in the action.
Sec. 21. The prothonotary, or clerk of the peace shall keep, in
a book provided for that purpose, the surnames alphabetically of
all persons summoned and returned to serve as grand jurors, or as
petit jurors, at the said courts respectively, together with their chris
tian names and places of abode ; and shall mark the attendance of
each juror and the default of each juror in not answering every call
of his name by order of the court,
Sec. 22. The prothonotary, or clerk of the peace, shall, at each
court, make a list of the jurors in attendance, showing the amount
due to each juror for his service at such court ; and the said list be
ing approved and signed by the judges present, the prothonotary,
or clerk, shall draw an order payable to each juror, or his order, for
the sum so allowed for his service, upon the treasurer of the county,
who is hereby required to pay the same.
After the drawing of such orders, the said lists shall be transmitted
by the prothonotary, or clerk, to the levy court.
Sec. 23. When, by a neglect of any of the duties enjoined by
this chapter upon any of the officers herein mentioned, a jury shall
not be duly drawn and summoned to attend any court to which
their attendance is by law required, every person, guilty of such
neglect, shall forfeit and pay a fine of fifty dollars to be imposed
by the court upon a summary investigation, as for a contempt of
court, and to be for the use of the county in which the offense is
committed.
Sec. 24. If any prothonotary, clerk of the peace, or recorder,
shall commit any fraud, either by practising on tbe jury boxes
previous to a draft, or in drawing a juror ; or in returning into
the box the name of any juror which had been lawfully drawn
out, and drawing or substituting another in his stead, or in any
other way in the drawing of jurors; or if a sheriff shall commit
any fraud in the summoning, or returning, of jurors, either in the
summoning, or returning, of persons who shall not have been drawn
as jurors, or in refusing to summon and return persons who shall
have been drawn as jurors, or otherwise; every officer so offending,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall forfeit and pay
a fine not exceeding two hundred dollars.
Sec. 25. If any person, summoned to attend, as a grand, or
petit juror, at any court, under any of the foregoing provisions,
shall fail to comply with such summons, or to answer to every call
of his name by order of the court, such defaulting juror shall forfeit
his fees for the day's attendance, or pay a fine not exceeding
ten dollars, at the discretion of the court; the fine when imposed,
to be for the use of the county in which the offense shall he com
mitted.
The court may, upon proper cause shown, remit a fine so im
posed.
CHAPTER 221, Vol. 17. Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT IN REFERENCE TO THE COMPETENCY OF JURORS IX
CAPITAL CASES.
Section I. When a juror is called in a capital case he shall be first sworn or affirmed
upon the voir dire and then asked, under the direction of the court, if he has
formed and expressed any opinion in regard to the guilt or innocence of the prisoner at
the bar. If his answer be in the negative, he shall be sworn as a juror in said case,
unless he has conscientious scruples against rinding a verdict of guilty in a case where
the punishment is death, even if the evidence should so warrant him, or unless he
shall be peremptorily challenged, challenged for cause, or excused by consent of coun
sel on both sides. If his answer to said question be in the affirmative, he shall be disqualified to sit in said case, unless he shall say, upon his said oath or affirmation, to the
1 1 1 r .
satisfaction of the court, that he feels able, notwithstanding such an opinion, to render
an impartial verdict upon the law and the evidence ; in which event he shall be a com
petent juror, if not otherwise disqualified, challenged, or excused.
Passed at Dover, January 34, 1883.
Sec. i. Judgments bind only from entry.
2. Judgments upon verdict; lien of.
CHAPTER CX.
OF JUDGMENTS.
3. Judgments ; amount to be ascer
tained.
4. Judgments entered the same day.
5. Judgments entered during the term.
6. These provisions not applicable to jus
tices' judgments.
7. Judgments of the Court of Errors; lien
of; proviso.
3. Duty of the clerk to file record and
make entry.
9. Force of such entry ; lien may be ex
tended.
10. Restriction.
11. Such judgments not to bind otherwise.
12. The true date of judgments to be en
tered.
13. Lien of judgments entered by the
clerk without attorney.
14. Judgments confessed by attorney;
written orders.
Sec, 15. Satisfaction of judgment to be entered
in sixty days.
16 Restrictions.
17. Entry to be signed
18. Liability for neglect
19. Duty of officer receiving payment on
execution.
Payments after return, to be certified
Restriction.
20. Penalty on clerk or sheriff for neglect.
21. Judgments against administrators, &c.
nut conclusive of assets, unless so
found.
22. When such judgments bind land of de
ceased.
23. Reference may be had on motion ;
when
34. Notice of meeting of referees.
25. Reference may be entered after judg
ment by default or on demurrer.
Additional acts.
LIEN OF JUDGMENTS.
Section 1. A judgment shall bind lands only from the time of
actually entering, or signing it, and not by relation from the first
day of the term in, or of which it is entered.
Sec, 2. A judgment upon a verdict, if entered before the end of
the term next after that in which it is given, shall be deemed to ber
entered at the same time as the verdict, and shall bind accordingly,
Sec. 3. A judgment given, amount to be ascertained by the prothonotary, or other person, shall bind from the time of its entry, if
the amount be ascertained and entered upon the docket before the
first day of the term next after that in which the judgment is given;
but otherwise only from the time of entering upon the docket the
ascertained amount.
Sec. 4. If several judgments be entered against ths same person,
on the same day, the first entered shall have the priority, ree
where there are several judgments against the same person, it does
not appear, by the entries, which was the first entered, they shall,
when given in suits previously commenced, have priority according
to the priority of the dates of the suits in which they are respec
tively given.
Sec. 5. A judgment entered during a term, if the day of enter
ing it does not appear by the docket, shall be postponed to a judg
ment entered during the period of the same term, the day of enter
ing which does appear by the docket. None of the foregoing reg
ulations shall contravene the provisions of the second section re
specting judgment upon a verdict.
Sec. 6. The foregoing provisions of this chapter do not extend
to judgments before a justice of the peace.
Sec. 7. A final judgment of the Court of Errors and Appeals,
given upon the reversal of a judgment of the Superior Court, shall
bind real estate in the county wherein were the proceedings in the
court below, from the date of entering it in the Court of Errors and
Appeals: provided, that the record being remanded, the said judg
ment be entered upon the docket of the court below within twenty
days after said date ; otherwise, the said judgment shall l>e a lien
only from the time of entering it upon the docket of the court be
low.
Sec. 8. The prothonotary of the court below to whom a record
remanded with a duly certified copy of the proceedings and judg
ment of the Court of Errors and Appeals is delivered, shall with
out delay, file it, and enter upon the docket of the court below, in
connection with the entries of the proceedings in the cause in said
court, the said proceedings and judgment of the Court of Errors
and Appeals, with the date of making such entry.
Sec. 9. The said entry, made under the foregoing section, shall
be a record, and the judgment, so entered, shall have the same fDrce
and effect as a judgment of the court below, and shall be executed
by the process of the said court in like manner as judgments of said
court ; and the lien thereof may be extended to lands and tene
ments in another county by means of a testatum fieri facias entered
of record in the office of the prothonotary of such county.
Sec. 10. The lien of a judgment shall not be extended, by affirm
ance, to real estate not bound by the original judgment.
Sec. 11. A judgment of the Court of Errors and Appeals shall
not bind real estate otherwise than as prescribed by the foregoing
provisions.
entry of judgments.
Sec. 12. The true date of entering, or signing, every judgment
shall be entered on the docket thereof, as also the date of ascertain
ing the amount of a judgment given, the amount to be ascertained
by the prothonotary, or other person ; and all judgments shall be
indexed according to the provisions of chapter 37.
Sec. 13. A judgment, entered by the prothonotary of the Superior
Court upon an obligation, without declaration filed, according b
to the provisions of chapter 37, section 5, shall have the same force °
and effect as if a declaration had been filed and judgment confessed
by an attorney, or judgment obtained in open court.
Sec. 14. When judgment is confessed by virtue of a warrant of
attorney for a penalty, the attorney confessing the judgment shall,
in a written direction to the officer entering the judgment, set down
the real debt, find the time from which interest is to be calculated ;
which shall be entered by the said officer upon the docket of the
judgment.
SATISFACTION OF JUDGMENTS.
Sec. 15. Every person, to whom a sum is due by judgment,
or decree, receiving satisfaction of the same, shall, within sixty
days thereafter, cause such satisfaction to be entered upon the record
of the judgment, or decree.
Sec. 1 6. The forgoing section does not extend to cases where a
sum due by judgment is received from the sheriff, or other officer,
on execution ; nor does it extend to a judgment of a justice of
the peace, unless a transcript thereof be entered in the Superior
Court, in which case satisfaction shall be there entered.
Sec. 17. Satisfaction, as aforesaid, shall be entered by the prothonotary,
or by his deputy, upon application of the party, or his attorney, who must sign the entry.
Sec. 18. Any person committing a default under section 15 of
this chapter, his executors, or administrators, shall be liable to then
defendant in the judgment, or decree, or the executors, or adminis
trators, of such defeudant, in damages, to be recovered by an action
on the case. The damages shall not be less than ten, nor more than
fifty dollars, except when special damages to a larger amount shall
be alleged in the declaration and proved.
Sec. 19. When the sheriff, or other officer, to whom an execution
is directed, levies, or receives the sum due thereon, or any part
thereof, or obtains a settlement of the execution, he shall make re-c
turn of such receipt, or settlement, under his hand, indorsed upon
the execution, with the sum and date of each payment, if the execution
be not fully satisfied. If the receipt or settlement, be after the
execution is returned, it shall be certified, within thirty days thereafter,
to the prothouotary in whose office the execution is. In such
latter case, the prothonotary shall annex the certificate to the exe
cution : and he shall enter every return of payment, or settlement,
as aforesaid, upon the docket of the execution. If the judgment is
thus satisfied he shall also note it on the record of such judgment.
[It shall be the duty of the sheriff, or other officer having sold real
estate by virtue of execution process, in his return to such process,
to show expressly to what lien or liens the money arising from the
sale thereof has been applied, and how much has been applied to
each lien. If, for any cause, the sheriff, or other officer, shall not
be able to make a proper return as aforesaid, by the return day fixed,
the court shall, upon application made by said officer, give further
time for making sucb return and when said return has been made,
it shall be the duty of the prothonotary to cause satisfaction to be
entered upon the record of such judgment or judgments as shall
have been paid by such proceeds of sale, and where the sum applic
able to any lien shall not be sufficient to pay the same, in that case
to note as a credit, on the record thereto, the amount applied thereto
by such return.]
[Whenever there is any judgment in any county of this State,
against any person or persons, upon which a testatum fi.fa. has been
issued and recorded in another county, or a transcript of the same
has been so made and recorded, and the judgment upon which the
testatum fi. fa. has been issued, or that of which a transcript has been
made and recorded as aforesaid, has been satisfied, it shall be the
duty of the prothonotary for the county where such original judg
ment is or shall be, within thirty days after such satisfaction, to
certify the fact of such satisfaction to the prothonotary of the
county where the testatum fi. fa., or transcript, shall have been re
corded, and upon the receipt of such certificate the prothonotary of
the county where the testatum fi. fa., or transcript, shall have been
recorded, shall write the fact of such satisfaction, within two days
thereafter, upon the record where the testatum fi. fa., or the tran
script is, or shall be, recorded. If any prothonotary shall refuse or
neglect to perform any of the duties enjoined upon him by this
section, he shall be liable in damages to any person injured by his
default in an action on the case ; such damages shall not be less
than ten nor more than fifty dollars, except when special damages
to a larger amount shall be alleged in the declaration and proved.]
This section does not extend to an execution issued by a justice
of the peace.
Skc. 20. If any prothonotary, or sheriff, shall refuse, or neglect,
to perform any of the duties enjoined upon him by the foregoing
section, he shall be liable in damages to any person, injured by his
default, in an action on the case; and such default shall also be a
breach of his official obligation, or recognizance, as the case mav
be.
CHAPTER 475, Vol. 15, Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT TO AMEND CHAPTER ONE HUNDRED AND TEN, (110,) OF
THE REVISED STATUTES OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE.
Section I. That chapter one hundred and ten of the Revised Statutes of the Stale
of Delaware, be and the same is hereby amended as follows : Any non-resident person
to whom a sum is due by judgment or decree, shall appear at the office where such
judgment or decree is recorded, within thirty days after a notice has been given to the
u i • j v i. • u l. • j -.
person to whom the sum is due, by the person owing such sum by judgment or decree,
to receive satisfaction, and at the same time enter satisfaction on the record of such
judgment or decree. Said non-resident neglecting or refusing to appear in person or
by power of attorney within the time specified, then the person owing the sum by such
judgment or decree, may deposit the amount due upon such judgment or decree, in the
Farmers Bank of the State of Delaware, subject to the order of such non-resident,
The cashier of said bank shall give to the depositor, a certificate, stating the amount
deposited in the name of said non-resident, and upon the presentation of this certificate, at the office where such judgment or decree is recorded, it shall be the duty of
the officer in charge of such office, to enter full satisfaction upon the said record, and
shall write upon the record the manner in which said judgment or decree is satisfied,
and shall retain the certificate or a duplicate of the same, in his office.
Sec. 2. A notice, by mail or by person, to a non-resident creditor shall be deemed
and taken as sufficient notice. This act, however, shall not bar any non-resident from
correcting any errors or omissions in any payments due him by suit or otherwise.
Sec. 3. And all statutes and parts and provisions of statutes heretofore enacted
which are inconsistent with, or superseded by, this act and this amendment, are hereby
repealed from and after the first Monday in May, A. D. 1877, on which day, and not
before, this act shall go into operation and effect.
Passed at Denier, March /J, 1877.
JUDGMENT AGAINST EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS.
Sec. 21. Judgment against an executor, or administrator, upon
the report of referees, shall not be conclusive that he has assets, un-°
less it be expressly found by the report that he has assets.
Sec. 22. The real estate of a deceased person shall not be liable
to be taken in execution upon, and shall not be bound by a judgnient
against his executor, or administrator, unless such judgment
be rendered upon a verdict, or an inquisition, or upon the report of
referees on a rule of reference entered, upon application of the
parties, by the prothonotary in vacation, or the Superior Court in
term time, referring all matters in controversy to three judicious and
impartial freeholders (or more if the parties so request) to be ap
pointed by the prothonotary, or court ; judgment to be rendered on
their report, or the report of a majority of them.
Sec. 23. If a defendant, being summoned, fail to appear, or
appearing, neglect or refuse so to plead as to put the cause at issue
in order for trial by a jury, a rule of reference under the foregoing
section may be made by the court upon the application of the plain
tiff only.
Sec. 24. When such rule of reference is entered by the court
upon the application of the plaintifff only, at least ten days' notice
of the meeting of the referees shall be required.
Sec. 25. Such rule of reference may be entered after a judgment
by default, or upon demurrer, as well as before judgment. Although
it be entered after judgment, nevertheless judgment shall be ren
dered on the report made pursuant thereto, and such judgment
on the report shall be regular, notwithstanding the previous judg
ment.
CHAPTER 778, Vol. 19, Laws op Delaware.
AN ACT LIMITING JUDGMENT LIENS UPON REAL ESTATE, AND FOR
OTHER PURPOSES.
SECTION I. No judgment for the recovery of money hereafter entered or recorded in
the Superior Court of this State in any county, whether rendered by said court or transferred thereto from the Court of Errors and Appeals-, or from the dockets of a justice of
the peace, or operative in said county by virtue of any writ of testatum fieri facias, or
otherwise, howsoever recorded in said court, shall continue a lien upon real estate for
a longer term than ten years next following the day of entry or recording of such judg
ment ; or in case the whole or any part of the money for which such judgment shall be
recovered or rendered shall not be due and payable at or before the time of its entry or
recording the day on which such money shall have become wholly due and payable,
unless within the said term of ten years, the lien of such judgment shall be renewed
and continued by a written agreement, signed by the plaintifff or plaintifffs therein, or
the assignee or assignees thereof, or the person or persons to whose use such judgment
shall have been marked, or his, her or their executors or administrators, and by the
defendant or defendants therein, or his, her or their executors or administrators, and
the terre tenant or terre tenants of the real estate bound by such lien, or, in
case of a judgment upon a mechanics' lien, the terre tenant or terre tenants
of such real estate, or by the attorneys of record of the respective parties to
such judgment, or of the persons interested therein as aforesaid, in substanlially
the following form, after stating the title of the cause, to wit: "It
is agreed that the lien of this jndgment shall be extended for the term of ten
years," filed in the office of the prothonotary and by him minuted and certified upon
the record of said judgment, or of the testatum fieri facias, as the case may be, or by
scire facias, in manner hereinafter set forth ; provided, kenvever, that if a writ of scire
facias shall be sued out of said court before the expiration of said term of ten years,
and said term shall expire during the pendency of the proceedings upon the said scire
facias, the lien of said judgment shall continue until final determination by said court
of the rights of the respective parties thereto, or until the discontinuance or dismissal of
such scire facias; and prtrvided further, that if final judgment in such scire facias
shall be rendered against the plaintifff or plaintifffs therein, and a writ of error shall be
taken and the Court of Errors and Appeals shall render final judgment thereon in favor
of the plaintifff or plaintifffs in error, the lien of such original judgment shall be restored
and continued, but such restoration or continuance of said lien by such final judgment
DJ' tne Court of Errors and Appeals shall not in any manner affect or be operative as
against any bona fide purchaser, mortgagee, or judgment creditor who shall become
such after the entry of such final judgment by the Superior Court upon such scire
facias and before the noting upon the record of such final judgment in such scire
facias of the taking of such writ of error.
Sec. 2. Immediately from and after the minuting and certifying upon the record of
..... ,, ,. . , . . , , .
such original judgment, or 01 such testatum fieri facias, as the case may be, of such
agreement for the extension of the lien thereof, or the entry of final judgment in the
Superior Court in favor of the plaintifff or plaintifffs in such writ of scire facias, or the
entry of final judgment in the Court of Errors and Appeals restoring and continuing
such lien, such lien shall continue for the further term of ten years next thereafter un
less sooner lost by final judgment by the Court of Errors and Appeals. And in like
manner and with like effect such lien so renewed or restored and continued may, by a
like agreement filed and minuted and certified upon the record of such original judg
ment, or of such testatum fieri facias, as the case may be, as aforesaid, before the ex
piration of the extended term or by final judgment in scire facias as aforesaid, be again
renewed or restored and continued for the further term of ten years, and so from time
to time as often as shall be found necessary.
Sec. j. After the first day of January, A. D. eighteen hundred and ninety-six, no
real estate shall be seized or taken by virtue of execution process upon any judgment
for the recovery of money entered or recorded in the Superior Court of this State in
, r i- - ,
any county prior to the first day of January, A. D. eighteen hundred and eighty-six,
and wholly due and payable on or before the day and year last aforesaid, and from and
after the said first day of January, A. D. eighteen hundred and ninety-six the lien of
such judgment upon real estate shall be lost unless prior to that time such lien shall be
renewed and continued by agreement filed or by scire facias sued out in manner as pro.
,
vided in the preceding sections of this act.
No real estate shall be seized or taken by virtue of execution process upon any other
' r 1 '
judgment for the recovery of money heretofore entered or recorded in said court after
the expiration of the term of ten years next following the day of entry or recording of
such judgment, or in case the whole or any part of the money for which such judgment
was recovered or rendered was not due and payable at or before the time of it
entry or recording the day on which such money became or shall become wholly due
and payable, and at the expiration of said term of ten years the lien of such judgment
upon real estate shall be lost unless within the said term of ten years such judgment
shall be renewed and continued by agreement filed or by scire facias sued out in manner as provided in the preceding sections of this act. All the provisions of the preceding
sections not inconsistent with the provisions of this section shall be applicable
,- , . . .
for the renewal or restoration and continuance and preservation of the lien of the judgments hereinbefore mentioned in this section and as to the force and effect and the loss
of such lien.
Sec. 4. In case the lien upon real estate of any judgment for the recovery of money
heretofore or hereafter entered or recorded in the Superior Court of this State in any
county shall l>e lost or interrupted under the provisions thereof and the said judgment
shall thereafter be revived by scire facias, the same when so revived shall be a lien upon
the real estate of the defendant or defendants in the original judgment, or, in case ot
judgment upon a mechanic's lien upon the real estate originally bound by such mechanic's
lien from the time of such revival, but such lien shall not relate back, nor
shall it in any manner affect any prior l)ona fide purchaser or mortgagee from or judgment
creditor of such defendant or defendants or terre tenant or terre tenants.
Sec. 5. A writ of scire facias for the renewal and continuance of the lien upon real
estate of a judgment under the provisions of this act may be sued out of the Superior
Court of this State in the county in which such original judgment has been or shall be
entered or recorded by the plaintifff or plaintifffs in such judgment, or the assignee or
assignees thereof, or the person or persons to whose use such judgment has been or
shall be marked, or his, her or their executors or administrators, against the defendant
or defendants in such judgment and the terre tenant or terre tenants of the real estate
bound by such lien, or, in case of a judgment on a mechanic's lien, the terre tenant or
terre tenants, directed to the sheriff of the county in which such writ shall issue, com
manding him to make known to the defendant or defendants therein that he, she or
they appear before said court and show cause, if any there be, why the lien of such
judgment should not be renewed and continued. And in all other respects the prac
tice, pleadings and procedure upon such scire facias shall conform as nearly as may be
to the practice, pleadings and procedure on other writs of scire facias sued out of said
court upon judgments under existing law. '
If final judgment be rendered for the plaintifff or plaintifffs in such writ, it shall be
that the lien of such original judgment shall stand renewed and continued for the term
of ten years next following the day of the entry of such judgment in the said action of
scire facias, and that the plaintifff or plaintifffs therein have execution thereon as in
other cases during said term of ten years.
Sec. 6. The provisions of the foregoing sections of this act shall not operate to de
feat the due enforcement of any writ of execution under any judgment for the recover)
of money heretofore or hereafter entered or recorded in the Superior Court of this
State, in any county, by virtue of which real estate shall be seized or taken, if such
writ of execution shall be issued before the first day of January, A. D. eighteen hun
dred and ninety-six, or before the expiration of the said term of ten years, as the case
may be, nor shall they apply to any judgment heretofore or hereafter entered by virtue
of a warrant of attorney, or otherwise, by confession in said court in any county upon
any bond or obligation of indemnity, or for the faithful discharge of duty, or with con
ditions other than for the payment of money, or to any judgment upon a mortgage or
recognizance, nor shall they in any manner apply to or affect the lien of any judgment
on a bond, accompanied by a mortgage, and to secure which bond such mortgage has
been or shall be given, except as to real estate not included in such mortgage.
Sec. 7. No judgment hereafter entered by virtue of a warrant of attorney in the Su
perior Court of this State, in any county, upon any bond or obligation with condition
other than for the payment of money, shall be or operate as a lien upon real estate
until said bond or obligation and warrant of attorney, or a copy thereof, certified under
tne hand of the prothonotary and the sea! of said court, shall be filed in the office of
v J
such prothonotary. It shall be the duty of the prothontary, at all times thereafter, to
safely keep such bond or obligation and warrant of attorney, or certified copy thereol,
in his office. The provisions of this section shall not apply to any official bond or ob
ligation given by a public officer.
Sec. 8. The fees of the prothonotary for services under the provisions of this act
shall, in so far as they are not provided for by existing law, be regulated by the Supe
rior Court of the State in the several counties.
Sec. 9. All acts or parts of acts in so far as inconsistent with the provisions of this
act are hereby repealed.
Passed at Dover, May 4, '893.
CHAPTER 164, Vol. 13, Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT RELATING TO LIENS.
Section I. In all cases in which commission merchants, factors, and all common
carxjers, or other persons, shall have a lien under existing laws upon any goods, wares,
' ,, t
merchandise, or other personal property, for or on account of the costs or expenses or
carriage, storage, or labor bestowed on such goods, wares, merchandise, or other per.
sonal property, if the owner or consignee of the same shall fail or neglect, or refuse to
pay the amount of charges upon any such property, goods, wares, or merchandise,
within sixty days after demand thereof, made personally upon such owner or consignee,
or at his last known place of residence, then in such case it shall and may be
lawful for any such commission merchant, factor, common carrier, orother person having
such lien as aforesaid, after the expiration of said period of sixty days, to expose such
goods, wares, merchandise, or other personal property to sale at public auction, and tog
sell the same, or so much thereof as shall be sufficient to discharge said lien, together
with costs of sale and advertising : Provided, that notice of such sale, together with
the name of the person or persons to whom such goods shall have been consigned,
shall have been first published, for three successive weeks, in a newspaper published
in the county, and by six written or printed handbills, put up in the most public and
conspicuous places in the vicinity of the depot where said goods may be.
Sec. 2. Upon the application of any of the persons or corporations having a lien
upon goods, wares, merchandise, or other property, as mentioned in the first section of
this act, verified by affidavit, to any judge of the Superior Court of this State, or to
the Chancellor, setting forth that the place of residence of the owner or consignee of
any such goods, wares, merchandise, or other property is unknown, or that such goods,
wares, merchandise or other property are of such a perishable nature, or so damaged,
or showing any other cause that shall render it impracticable to give the notice as re
quired in the first section of this act, then, in such case, it shall and may be lawful for
the Judge, or Chancellor, hearing such application, to make an order, to be by him
signed, authorizing the sale of such goods, wares, merchandise, or other property
upon such terms as to notice as the nature of the case may admit of and to such
Judge shall seem meet ; Provided, that in case of perishable property, the affidavit
and proceedings required by this section, may be had before a Justice of the Peace.
Sec. 3. The residue of monies arising from any such sales, either under the first or
second sections of this act, after deducting the amount of the lien as aforesaid, together
with costs of advertising and sales, shall be held subject to the order of the owner or
owners of such property.
Passed at Dover, Match j, 1867.
CHAPTER 147, Vol. 16, Laws of Delaware.
AS ACT TO PREFER WAGES OF EMPLOYEES IN CASE OF EXECU
TION AND ASSIGNMENT.
SECTION I. That from and after the passage of this act, all debts or claims that may
become due or growing due for labor or services rendered by any mechanic, laborer
' '
clerk or other employee of any person or persons, chartered company or association
employing laborers, clerks or mechanics in any manner whatsoever, shall be a first lien
on all the real and personal property of such employer or employers, and shall be the
first to be satisfied out of the proceeds of the sale of such property, whether made by
an officer or an assignee of such employer or employers or otherwise : Provided, however,
that the debt or claim secured to the mechanic, laborer, clerk or other emplovee
r J
under this act shall not exceed a sum equal to the wages of such mechanic, laborer,
clerk, or other employee for one month: And provided further, that in no event
shall such debt or claim exceed the sum of fifty dollars, though the wages for one
month may be a greater sum. Notice of such claim or debt shall be given to the coroner, sheriff, constable, assignee, or other person who shall make or conduct the sale o!
property subject to the lien or preference provided for by this act.
^EC. 2- ^nat no suc'1 c'a'm or debt for work, labor, or clerk hire as aforesaid shall
be a lien upon any real estate as is provided for in Section I of this act, unless a copy
f ^ cjaim or debt shall be filed in the prothonotary's office of the county in which
r *
such real estate is situated within one month after the same shall have become due and
owing or shall be growing due and owing. Any person presenting a copy of such
claim or debt to be filed in the prothonotary's office as aforesaid, shall accompany the
same with an affidavit stating that such debt or claim is just and true. The fee to the
prothonotary for such service shall be fifty cents.
Sec. 2. That no lien of a judgment, recognizance, or mortgage which may hereafter
created shall operate to impair or postpone the lien or preference given and secured
to debts or claims mentioned in the first section of this act.
Sec. 4. That nothing in this act shall be construed so as to aflect or impair any debts,
contracts, or liens made or entered into prior to the passage of this act.
Sec. 5. That any person who shall make an affidavit to any debt or claim which is
untrue shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall forfeit and pay a fine of fifty dollars.
^EC. °- That the parent, guardian, or next friend of any minors who shall render
such service as is mentioned in the first section of this act shall have the right to proceed
under the provisions of this act to secure the debt or claim arising from the service
, , , . . . . ,
or labor rendered by such minor as aloresaid.
gEC y That this act shall not apply to Kent and Sussex counties.
Passed at Dover, February 2J, /Syg.
CHAPTER 145, Vol. 16, Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT IN RELATION TO MECHANICS* LIENS.
Section I. It shall and may be lawful for any person or persons having performed
or furnished work and labor or material, or both, to an amount exceeding twenty-live
dollars in or for the erection, alteration, or repair of any house, building, or structure,
in pursuance of any contract, express or implied, with the owners of such house, build
ing, or stmcture, or with the agent of such owner, or with any contractor who shall
have contracted for the erection, alteration, or repair of the same, and for the furnish
ing of the whole or any part of the materials therefore, to obtain a lien u[x>n such build
ing, house, or structure, and upon the ground upon which the same may be situated
or erected, subject, however, to the following restrictions, limitations, and qualifica
tions. that is to say : That no contractor who shall have contracted for the erection of
.... . . , . , ,
any building, house or structure, in whole or in part, or for the repair or alteration ol
^e sarne) anri for the furnishing of the whole or any part of the materials therefore, shall
be allowed to file any statement of his claim, as is hereinafter provided, until after the
expiration of ninety days from the completion of such building, house, or structure so
contracted for by him ; but such contractor, in order to avail himself of the benefits of
this act, shall file his statement in the manner hereinafter provided within thirty days
after the expiration of the ninety days aforesaid, and all other persons embraced within
r . J ' r
the provisions of this act, and entitled to avail themselves of the liens herein provided
^ gjg g statement Qf their respective claims, in the manner hereinafter desig
nated, within ninety days from the completion of the work and labor performed orfroro
the last delivery of materials furnished by them respectively ; and every person or per
sons entitled to the benefits conferred by this act, and desiring to avail himself, herself,
or themselves of the lien herein provided for, shall, within the time hereinbefore specified,
file a statement of his, her, or their claims in the office of the prothonotary of the
Superior Court in and for the county wherein such building or structure is situated.
The said statement shall contain and set forth :
First. The names of the party, claimant and owner, or reputed owner of the buildr
" r
ing, house or structure, and also of the contractor, and whether the contract of the
claimant was made with such owner or his agent or with such contractor.
Second. The amount or sum claimed to be due, the nature and kind of the work and
labor done, or a bill of particulars of the kind and amount of materials furnished.
Third. The time when the said work and labor or the furnishing of said materials
was commenced and finished.
Fourth. The locality of the building, house or structure, with such description as
may be sufficient to identify the same.
Fifth. That the said work and labor were performed, or said materials were furnished,
on the credit of the said building, house or structure.
Sixth. That the amount of the said claim exceeds twenty-five dollars, and that the
same has not been paid to the claimant. The claimant shall make affidavit to the
truth and correctness of the said claim and of the facts stated therein. Any judgment obtained
upon such claim, as hereinafter provided, shall become a lien upon such building, house or structure, and upon the ground upon which the same is situated, erected
or constructed, and shall relate back to the day upon which said work and labor was
begun, or the furnishing of said material was commenced, and shall take priority accordingly.
In every case in which one claim for work and labor or materials shall be
filed by the same person or persons against two or more buildings, houses or structures
owned by the same person or persons, for building, altering or repairing two or more
buildings or structures owned by the same person or persons, the claimant shall, at the
time of filing such joint claim, designate the amount which he claims to be due to him
on each of such buildings, houses or structures.
Nothing herein contained shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect the right
of any person to whom any debt may be due for work and labor done, or materials furJ r ' nished,
to maintain any personal action against the owner or contractor of such building, house or structure, to recover the amount of such debt, nor shall anything herein
contained be so construed as to render property liable to liens under this act for repairs,
alterations or additions, when the same has been altered, added to or repaired by or at
the instance of any lessee or tenant, without the written consent of the owner or owners
or his, her or their duly authorized agent first had and obtained : Provided, that the
owner or owners of any building, house or structure built, repaired or altered by any
contractor who shall have contracted to build, erect, alter or repair the same, and furnish the materials therefore, shall be, and he is hereby authorized and empowered, in
case any liens shall be entered under this act upon the said building, house or struc
ture, upon any claim or claims for materials which, by the terms of his contract, the
said contractor was bound to furnish, by any person or persons other than such contrac
tor, to retain and withhold from such contractor so much of the monies to be paid to
him in pursuance of the contract made with such contractor, as may be necessary to
liquidate and discharge such liens ; and in case judgment be recovered by such
lien creditors, then, in that event, to apply the said monies, or such part thereof as
may be necessary to satisfy the said judgment, to the payment and satisfaction thereof
and such payment shall be considered and treated as a payment pro tanto to the said
contractor towards the monies provided to be paid by the said contractors : and froJ
vided further, that no person or persons embraced within the provisions of this act,
and entitled to avail themselves of the lien herein provided for, shall be considered as
waiving the same by granting a credit, or receiving notes or other secureties, unless the
same be received as payment, or the lien expressly waived, but the sole effect thereof
shall be to prevent such person or persons from availing themselves of the liens herein
provided for until the expiration of the time agreed upon.
Sec. 2. The proceedings to recover the amount of any claim as aforesaid shall be
by a writ of scire facias, in the following form, to-wit :
County, ss. The State of Delaware
To the Sheriff of said county, greeting :
Whereas hath filed a claim in our Superior Court for the county of
, against for the sum of , (for work and labor
done or materials furnished as the case may be) (to or for) a certain building, to-wit :
(describing it as in the claim :) And whereas it is alleged that the said sum still re
mains due and unpaid to the said ; now we command you that yon
make known to said , and to all such persons as may hold or occupy the
said building, that they be and appear before the judges of our said court at
1 ■, on the day of next, to show if anything they
should not be levied of the
know, or have to say, why the said sum of
said building to the use of the said according to the form and effect of
the act of Assembly in such case made and provided. And have you then there this
Witness (as in similar writs.)
No such Scire Facias shall be issued in any case within ten days previous to the re
turn day thereof. The said writ shall be served in the same manner as other writs of
Scire facias, upon the defendant therein named, if he can be found within the county;
and a copy thereof shall be left with some person residing in the building, if occupied
as a place of residence ; but if not so occupied, it shall be the duty of the sheriff to
affix a copy of such writ upon the door or other front part of such building. Judg
ment by default may be entered upon motion by the plaintifff on the last day of the
term to which said process is returnable, notwithstanding appearance by the defendant,
unless said defendant shall have previously filed in the cause an affidavit that he verily
believes there is a legal defense to the whole or part of such cause of action, and set
ting forth the nature and character of the same ; and if the defense be to a part only,
then specifying the sum really due and judgment may be entered for the plaintifff at
his election for the sum acknowledged to be due. If such claim be not filed ten days
before the return day of said writ, or if judgment be not so entered by default, then
like proceedings shall be had as in other cases of Scire Facias.
The execution of every judgment under the foregoing provisions shall be by writ of
Levari Facias, in the following form, to wit
County, ss. The State of Delaware.
To the Sheriff of said county, greeting :
We command you that without any other writ from us of the following described
building and lot of ground, to wit : (describing the same according to the record,) in
your bailiwick, you cause to be levied as well a certain debt of which
lately in our Superior Court for the county aforesaid, before the judges
thereof, recovered against to be levied of the said building and lot of
ground, as also the interest thereon from the day of . A
I).
and also the sum of for
the cost which accrued thereon,
according to the form and effect of an act of the General Assembly in such cases made
and provided, and have you there monies before our Judges at , , at our
Superior Court in and for the county of there to be held on the
day of next, to render unto the said for his debt, interest
and costs aforesaid, and have you then there this writ.
Witness (as in similar writs.)
Sec. 3. It shall be the duty of the prothonotary in each county of this State to pro
cure and keep a docket, to be called "The Mechanics' Lien Docket," in which he
shall make an entry of each claim so filed as aforesaid, setting down therein the names
of the parties, plaintifff and defendant, the amount claimed, the day upon which the
claim is filed, and of the issuing of the Scire Facias, a description of the property
1 , . , , ,. ,., .
against which the claim is sought to be charged, amount for which judgment is rendered, the day on which the same is rendered, the party for and against whom it is
rendered, and in case judgment (be) for the plaintifff, the time to which the judgment
relates back as a lien, and other entries necessary and proper to a full understanding
of the case. The time to which the judgment shall relate back as a lien shall be ascer
tained in the same manner as the amount of the judgment is ascertained.
Sec. 4. The provisions of this act are hereby declared to extend to work and labor
performed and furnished, or materials furnished in plumbing, gas-fitting, paper-hang
ing, paving, wharf building, and to iron works and machinery of every kind in mills
and factories, and to bridges, [and to the service rendered, and the work and labor
performed and furnished, by an architect,] and shall be as well by and against cor
porations as individuals.
Sec. 5. This act shall also extend to work and labor or materials performed or furnished in the construction, alteration, furnishing, rigging, launching or repairing of any
ship or vessel within this State : Provided, nevertheless, that no bill of particulars and
affidavit as aforesaid shall (be) filed more than four days after such ship or vessel has
been launched, rigged, furnished and ready for sea, or after such repairs have been
completed.' And the same shall contain the name of the ship or vessel, or a description
thereof sufficient for identification. Upon filing said bill of particulars and affidavit, under the provisions of this section, the prothonotary may issue a writ of attachment,
directed to the sheriff of the county in which the ship or vessel may be, commanding the sheriff to attach the defendant by such ship or vessel, together with the
tackle, apparel and furniture, wheresoever the same be found in his bailiwick, so that
he be and appear at the next term of the Superior Court to answer the plaintifff's de
mands. The sheriff shall, under such writ, seize and take possession of the said ship
or vessel, and have the same inventoried and appraised, and shall be answerable tnerefor. If the defendant in the attachment shall at any time before judgment appear and
enter into recognizance to the plaintifff in said writ of attachment in a reasonable
penalty, and with surety to be approved by the prothonotary, with condition to pay the
condemnation money, and all costs, or otherwise abide the judgment of the Superior
Court in the case, if he fail to make good his plea, then the attachment shall be dissolved,
the ship or vessel shall be discharged and the case shall proceed as in other
cases of assumpsit for work and labor or materials furnished.
Sec. 6. On the return of said writ of attachment or summons, the court may, upon
petition of any person or persons claiming to have performed or furnished work or
labor or materia], at the request of the plaintifff or plaintifffs in said attachment, appoint
three suitable persons to audit and determine the claim or claims of the said plaintifff or
r r
plaintifffs, and also the claim or claims of the petitioner or petitioners, who shall adjust
and ascertain all the demands, including that of the plaintifff in the writ. The audi
tors sj,a[] severallj- be sworn or affirmed to perform their duties according to the best of
their skill and knowledge. They shall give ten days notice to the parties of the time
an<^ P'ace °^ tne'r nrst mee"ng by advertisement, posted at the Court House door, and
at least five other public places in the county. Their subsequent sittings shall be by
adjournment duly made and publicly announced. They may investigate any claim
presented in any form they may judge best, and may examine any of the parties upon
oatn or affirmation. On receipt of the proceeds of the sale of the property attached
or against which judgment is obtained or any part thereof, the auditors shall calculate
and settle the proixirtions and dividends due to the several parties, and shall make re.
, j ,
port to the next term of the court after such appointment, and upon confirmation ol
tjje rep0r( pay over to the several parties their respective share of the proceeds accord... m , ,
mg to such apportionment. The court may hear exceptions to and correct such account
and report, either in the calculations, dividends, apportionment, or otherwise.
^EC' 1' ^ tne attachment shall not have been dissolved, as hereinbefore provided,
judgment may be given for the plaintifff in the attachment, at the second term after
issuing the writ, as in other cases of attachment, and thereupon the court may order
tnat tne snermr shall sell the property attached, on due notice, and pay the proceeds,
deducting legal costs and charges, to auditors for distribution ; any balance remaining
^ue ^rom defendant in the attachment to any of the parties after such distribution
of the proceeds, may be collected as other debts, and any surplus after paying costs.
shall be returned to the defendant or his executors, administrators or assigns. All sales
made under this act shall be good against the defendant, his executors, administrators
or assigns.
Sec. 8. Chapter 117, Volume 12, of the Laws of Delaware, entitled "An act se
curing to mechanics and others payment for labor and materials in erecting or repair
ing any building or structure within the State of Delaware," passed at Dover, March
7th, 1861 ; Chapter 464, Volume 11, of the Laws of Delaware, entitled "An act to
' ' > r -r—r> j> >
amend Chapter 1 17, Volume 12, of the Laws of Delaware," passed at Dover, Feb
ruary 24, 1869 ; Chapter 95, Volume 14, of the Laws of Delaware, entitled " An act
to amend an act entitled ' An act securing to mechanics and others payment for labor
and materials in erecting and repairing any building or structure within the State of
Delaware," passed at Dover, March 7th, 1861, as amended by the act entitled "An
act to amend Chapter 117, Volume 12, of the Laws of Delaware, passed at Dover,
February 24, 1869," passed at Dover, March 29th, 1871 ; Chapter 96, Volume 14, of
the Laws of Delaware, entitled " An act securing to mechanics and others payment for
labor and materials in erecting or repairing any building or structure within the State
of Delaware," passed at Dover, March 7th, 1861, amended February 24th, 1S69,
amended March 29th, 1871 ; Chapter 96, Volume 14th, of the Laws of Delaware, en
titled "An act securing to mechanics and others payment for labor and materials in
erecting or repairing any building or structure within the State of Delaware," as pub
lished in the Laws of Delaware, Revised Code 1852, as amended, &c, 1874, on
pages 668, 669, 670, 671 and 672 of said Revised Code; and Chapter 184, Volume
15, Laws of Delaware, entitled "An act to amend an act entitled ' An act securing
to mechanics and others payment for labor and materials in erecting or repairing any
building or structure within the State of Delaware,' " passed at Dover, March 26th,
1875, and all other act or parts of acts inconsistent with or supplied by the provisions
of this act are hereby repealed, made null and void : Provided, that no suit or suits
instituted and now pending, under any of the acts herein repealed, shall abate by rei
son of this act, but the said acts herein repealed shall be and the same are hereby maintained
and continued in force so far as may be necessary to preserve and maintain the
said suits, and to complete and carry into effect any proceedings commenced thereunder
as fully and completely as though this act had not been passed : And /''^'^^ce
also , that this act shall be treated and considered as applying to and embracing all
contracts heretofore made for work and labor performed or materials furnished in and
about the erection, alteration, or repair of any building, house or structure where suits
are not pending prior to the passage of this act : And provided farther, that nothing
in this section shall in any way invalidate or disturb any liens heretofore recovered
under the provisions of the acts herein repealed, but the said liens shall remain in force
with the same power of execution as though said acts had not been repealed.
[Sec. 9. That it shall and may be lawful for any person or persons, having performed
any work or labor to any amount less than one hundred dollars in or for the
, ,
erection, alteration or repair of any house, building, bridge, or structure, in pursuance
of any contract, expressed or implied, with the owner or reputed owner of such house,
building, bridge, or structure, or with any contractor who shall have contracted for the
erection, alteration or repair of any house, building, bridge, or structure, or any part
thereof, to obtain a lien upon such building, house, bridge, or structure, and upon the
ground upon which the same may be situated or erected, subject however to the follow
ing restrictions, limitations and qualifications, that is to say : that no person or persons
having done or performed any work or labor in or about the erection, alteration or
repair of any house, building, bridge, or structure, shall be allowed to file any statement
of his claim as hereinafter provided until after the expiration of twenty days from the
time of the last work or labor done or performed by him, but in order to avail himself
of the benefits of this section he shall file his claim within ten days after the expiration
of the twenty days aforesaid, and any person or persons entitled to the benefits of this
section shall file his claim under oath, within the time above specified, with any justice
of the peace of the county wherein such house, building, bridge, or structure shall be
situated. The said statement shall set forth the names of the party claimant, the owner
or reputed owner of the building, house, bridge, or structure, and also of the contractor
and the kind of work or labor done, and whether the contract was with
the owner or his agent, or with the contractor, the sum claimed to be due, the time
when said work was commenced and finished, the location of such house, building,
bridge, or structure, and the ground upon which the same is situated, and a description
sufficient to identify the same.
Immediately upon the filing of any such claim the justice of the peace with whom
the same is filed shall issue a summons, as in other civil cases, to the owner and con
tractor or owner, as the case may be, and directed to any constable of the county ; pro
vided that the time for the defendants' appearance shall not be more than three days
from the date of the summons, and not more than two adjournments shall be had, and
then only from day to day. If the defendant or defendants shall fail to appear at the
time appointed, or after a hearing the justice shall be satisfied of the correctness of the
claim, he shall give judgment as in other cases, and upon the payment of cost and a
demand for a transcript he shall furnish the same, which may be entered in the Superior
Court of the county in which the said house, building or structure is situated, and
when so entered, if within two days from the date of the [judgment], shall become a
lien on such house, building, bridge, or structure, and upon the ground upon which
the same is erected, and shall relate back to the day when such work or labor was commenced,
and shall take priority accordingly. Any and all transcripts taken and entered
in the Superior Court under this section shall contain a description of the property upon
which it is to become a lien, and shall conform to the description set forth in the plaintiff 's statement. All costs and charges shall follow the judgment and shall be the
same as are now authorized by law in civil cases before justices of the peace ; pro
vided, however, that it shall be the duty of every contractor, when so required, to give
ample security to the owner of any house, building, or structure being altered, erected
Qr jgpgjj^j by him t0 save such owner harmless from the provisions of this act.]
Passed at Dover, March so, /Syg.
CHAPTER 620, Vol. 17, Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT FOR THE PROTECTION OF KEEPERS OF LIVERY A5D
BOARDING STABLES.
Section I. That any hotel-keeper, inn-keeper, or other person who keeps a livery
or boarding stable, and for price or reward at such stable furnishes food or care for any
horse, or has the custody or care of any carriage, cart, wagon, sleigh or other vehicle,
or any harness, robes, or other equipments for the same, shall have a lien upon such
horse, carriage, cart, wagon, sleigh, vehicle, harness, robes or equipments, and the
right to detain the same to secure the payment of such price or reward, and may, snbject to the provisions of this act hereinafter contained, after the expiration of fifteen
days from the time the same or any part thereof became due and payable, the same remaining unpaid in whole or in part, sell the property upon which he has such lien at
public sale, at such livery or boarding stable, to the highest and best bidder or bidders
therefore, first giving at least ten days notice of such sale by handbills posted in five or
more public places in the county in which such sale is to be had and by advertisement
in a newspaper published in said county, describing the property to be sold and naming
the day, hour and place of sale thereof, and may apply the money arising from said sale
to the payment of the amount then remaining due, including therein compensation at
the same rate as such stipulated price or reward for food, care or custody furnished or
bestowed as aforesaid up to the time of sale, together with the costs and expenses of
sale ; provided, however, that in case either before or after such price or reward has become
due and payable, the keeper of such stable has parted with the possession or cus((K]y 0r (rie pr0per(y subject to such lien, he may (if the contract for food, care or cus
tody as aforesaid was made with the owner of the aforementioned property), at any
time within the space of ten days from the time of such parting with the possession or
custody thereof, make an affidavit, to be filed in the office of a justice of the peace of
the county in which such stable is situated, describing such property and stating the
amount of such price or reward then remaining due and payable, from whom owing,
an<^ t'lat tne same 's justly and truly due ; and it shall thereupon be the duty of such
justice of the peace forthwith to issue to a constable a warrant for the seizure of such
property and for the delivery thereof to the keeper of such stable, and such constable
shall forthwith, at any place within such county, seize and deliver such property pursuant
to sucn warrant, and thereafter the keeper of such stible shall have the righi,
unless there has been a previous execution and levy for an amount exceeding the
value of the property, or unless such property has been sold fairly for a valuable consideration and delivered to the purchaser after the keeper of such stable has parted with
its possession or custody and before such seizure thereof, to sell the same in manner
aforesaid, after giving notice as aforesaid, and may apply the money arising from such
jn manner aforesaid. The balance, if any, of the proceeds of sale shall be paid to
the owner or owners of the property sold ; but in case such owner or owners cannot be
found such balance shall be deposited in the Farmers' Bank of the State of Delaware,
for the county in which such sale has been had, to the credit of such owner or owners.
Provided, however, that if the owner or owners of the property subject to such lien,
and detained by or seized and delivered to the keeper of such stable, shall at any time
after such price or reward has in whole or in part become due and payable, and before
sale, demand such property from the keeper of such stable, such lien shall be los
unless the keeper of such stable shall, within the space of fifteen days from the making
of such demand upon him sell such property under and in accordance with the provis
ions hereinbefore contained.
Sec. 2. That an action of replevin shall lie to recover the property detained by or
seized and delivered to the keeper of a livery or boarding stable as aforesaid, with
damages and costs for the detention thereof, at any time before sale thereof as aforesaid,
against the keeper of such stable at the suit of the person or persons having the
right, aside from any lien under the provisions of this act, to the immediate possession
of such property, whether having the general or only a special property therein, the
plaintifff or plaintifffs in the action, or some substantial person for him, her, or them,
with sufficient surety satisfactory to the officer to whom the writ of replevin is directed,
entering into bond to such officer before service of such writ in a penalty double the
value of such property, to be estimated by such officer, with condition according to the
following form :
The condition of the above written obligation is such, that if , at whose suit
against a writ of replevin has been issued out of the Superior Court of the State
of Delaware for county, returnable to term next, or ex
ecutors or administrators, shall prosecute said suit with effect, and shall fully and with
out delay abide by and satisfy any judgment which shall be given against the said, or executors or administrators, in the said suit, then the said ob
ligation shall be void.
The defendant in the replevin may plead generally non cepit, non detinuit, property in a stranger, or an avowry of detention, in accordance with the provisions of fhis
act, stating the amount claimed to be due and payable to him at the time of the replevy
for food, care, or custody furnished or bestowed as aforesaid, which amount may inelude
not only the stipulated price or reward then due and payable for the same, but
also compensation at the same rate for food, care, or custody furnished or bestowed, as
aforesaid, up to the time of such replevy. Such defendant may plead any or all of the
above pleas ; provided, however, that an avowry shall always be accompanied by and
tried or considered in connection with the plea of property in a stranger ; andfurther,
that neither the plea of non cepit or non detinuit shall ever accompany or be tried or
r e r j
considered in connection with an avowry. He may also plead such other pleas, not
inconsistent with the provisions or purposes of this act, as the court, by general rule
or upon special application, shall allow.
Sec. 3. The plea of non cepit shall have the same effect as heretofore. Upon
the plea of non detinuit it shall be incumbent upon the plaintifff to prove a demand
upon the defendant before the commencement of the action for the deliver)' to him of
the property replevied, or a sufficient excuse for the omission of such demand. Upon
the plea of property in a stranger, it shall be incumbent upon the plaintifff to prove that
at the time of the commencement of the action he had the right, aside from any lien
under the provisions of this act, to the immediate possession of the goods and chattels
replevied, whether as having the general or only a special property therein.
Sec. 4. The judgment of the court if entered for the plaintifff upon the plea of non
.•pit or non detinuit, shall be against the defendant for costs and damages for the detention
until the time of the replevy, to be assessed by a jury, but if entered for the de
fendant upon either of said pleas, the judgment shall be against the plaintifff for costs.
Judgment, if entered for the plaintifff upon the plea of property in a stranger, shall be
against the defendant for costs and damages for detention as aforesaid, but if entered
for the defendant upon said plea the judgment shall be against the plaintifff for costs
and for a return of the property replevied within ten days, or the value thereof, to
gether with damages for the detention thereof from the time of replevy, such value
and damages to be separately assessed by a jury. Judgment, if entered for the plain
tiff upon an avowry, shall, if the issue upon the accompanying plea of property in a
stranger be determined in favor of the plaintifff, be against the defendant for costs and
damages for detention until the time of replevy, to be assessed as aforesaid ; but if the
issue upon such accompanying plea be determined in favor of the defendant, judgment
shall be against the plaintifff for costs and for a return of the property, or the value
thereof, with damages for detention from the time of replevy as aforesaid. Judgment,
if entered for the defendant upon an avowry, shall, if the issue upon the accompany
ing pica of property in a stranger be determined in favor of the defendant, be againii
the plaintifff for costs and for a return of the property or the value thereof, with dam
ages for detention from the time of replevy as aforesaid ; but if the issue upon such ac
companying plea be determined in favor of the plaintifff, the judgment shall be against
the plaintifff for costs and for the amount due to the defendant for food, care, or custody
furnished or bestowed, to be assessed as aforesaid.
Sec. 5. If there be judgment of non-suit, or by default, or upon demurrer, or other
wjSCj w ithout trial by jury, the value of the property replevied, or damages for detention thereof, or the amount due to the defendant lor food, care, or custody furnished or
bestowed as aforesaid, may be assessed and determined either by a jury at the bar, or
upon a writ of inquiry, or otherwise, as the court shall order ; and thereupon such
judgment may be entered as the court shall deem in furtherance of the provisions or
purpose of this act. The court shall also, subject to the provisions of this act, deter
mine the judgment to be entered where two or more pleas are tried or considered to
gether, and shall make such orders or rules for the disposition of the cause upon its
merits as it shall deem proper or necessary. It may also regulate the practice of is
suing writs for the enforcement of any judgment entered in accordance with the pro
visions of this act.
Sec. 6. If judgment be given for the defendant, or his executors or administrators,
the officer to whom the bond was given lrefore the service of the writ of replevin shall,
on request, assign the same, under his hand and seal, in the presence of at least one
credible witness, to the defendant in the writ, or his executors or administrators, and
the assignee or assignees may sue on the bond in his, her, or their own name or name.-.
Sec. 7. If, after a judgment for a return, the property replevied, or any part thereof,
be returned in an injured or depreciated condition, and such injury or depreciation ha.resulted
from the wrong or negligence, since the replevy, of any other person than the
defendant therein, his executors or administrators, the defendant, or his executors
or administrators, may recover upon the bond aforesaid, so assigned as aforesaid, in
addition to the monies which shall have been adjudged to him or them in such action
of replevin, damages to the extent of such injury or depreciation.
Section i. That from and after the passage of this act each and every colt in this
State shall be liable for the service of the stallion, its sire. Provided, however, that
in any and all cases where the pedigree or qualities of the stallion is misrepresented by
its owner or agent, then the foal shall not be liable for the service as aforesaid.
Sec. 2. And in order for the owner or owners of any stalion or stallions to avail themselves
of the benefits of this act, it shall be necessary for such owner or owners to have
printed and posted, at ten of the most public places in the county in which the said
stallion or stallions are to stand or travel, a full description and pedigree of his or their
stallion or stallions, and to exhibit a copy to the owner of any mare or mares about to
be served by such stallion or stallions. After sixty days from the day the foal was
dropped, and a refusal to pay by the then owner of the mare and colt, it shall be the
duty of the owner of the stallion, the sire of such cold, to bring his action for the ser
vice of the stallion, as per agreement. And if the justice of the peace shall be satislied
of the correctness of the claim and give judgment in favor of such owner, he may
at once take out execution on such judgment, and when so executed the lien shall re
vert back to the day of the foaling of such colt, and shall be a paramount and
prior lien on such colt to any other execution or mortgage.
Section 1. Lands, tenements and hereditaments, where no sufficient
personal estate can be found, may be seized and sold upon
judgment and execution obtained.
Sec. 2. The following goods and chattels, the property of white
citizens of this State, shall be exempt from execution process, to
wit: — 1st. The necessary wearing apparel of the debtor and his
wife and children; one bedstead, bed, and the necessary bedding for
every two persons of the family : one iron stove used for warming
the dwelling-house; and fuel, not exceeding the value of five
dollars, procured and designed for the use of the family.
2. The bibles and school books used in the family ;
3. One cow, one swine, and one ton of hay ;
4. The library, and tools, or implements, of the debtor, necessary
for carrying on his profession, or trade, not exceeding in value fifty
dollars ;
5. Rights of burial ; and tombs whilst in use as repositories for
the dead ;
6. Other household furniture necessary for the debtor and his
family, not exceeding in value twenty-five dollars ;
Provided always, that the value of the whole of the articles ex
empted, shall not exceed one hundred dollars: and provided further,
that if the debtor shall not, at the time of the execution of said
process, be in possession of all, or any, of the above specified arti
cles, then any other property which he shall have in his possession,
amounting in value to one hundred dollars, shall be exempt as
aforesaid, except in every case for taxes due in either of the coun
ties of this State, or in the city of Wilmington ; which said articles
and the value thereof shall be ascertained by two impartial citizens
of the county whereof the debtor is an inhabitant, to be appointed
and to be sworn, or affirmed, faithfully and justly to fulfill the
duties of said appointment, by any justice of the peace, constable,
or sheriff, of the said county.
This section shall not extend to, or affect, any contract, or debt,
made, or incurred, prior to the 4th day of July, A. D. 1861 ; nor
to an execution issued upon a judgment recovered in any action of
trespass vi et armin ; nor shall this section extend, or apply, to
execution process issued within Kent or [Sussex] county.
CHAPTER 562, Vol. 14, Laws of Delaware.
AIT ACT TO EXEMPT FROM EXECUTION PROCESS CERTAIN ARTI
CLES OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.
Section I. That every person residing within this State shall have exempt from execution or attachment process the following articles of personal property, to wit : The
family Bible, school books and family library, family pictures, a seat or pew
in any church or place of public worship, a lot in any burial ground, all the wearing
apparel of the debtor and his family, and in addition to the articles hereinbefore specifi
cally named shall have exempt the tools, implements and fixtures necessary for carry
ing on his or her trade or business, not exceeding in value seventy-five dollars.*
Sec. 2. That every person residing within this State, and being the head of a family, shall have exempt from execution or attachment process, in addition to the exemptions
made in the first section of this act, other personal property not exceeding in value
two hundred dollars,* the articles to be selected by the debtor. [Provided
that this exemption shall not apply to goods and chattels of a merchantable
r
character bought to be sold and trafficked in by the person or persons in the prosedition of his, her or their regular business or occupation. And provided furthcr
that no person shall have exempt from execution or attachment process any personal
property, excepting that which is expressly exempted by Section I of the act hereby
amended, when such exemption would prevent the collection according to law of any
debt or claim that may be due or growing due for labor or services (other than professional
services) rendered by any clerk, mechanic, laborer, or other employe of any person or persons against whom such execution or attachment process may have been or
may be issued.]
Sec. 3. That the property exempt and required to be valued by the provisions of
this act shall be valued by three judicious and impartial freeholders ; one of said freeholders shall be chosen by the creditor having the oldest execution in the hands of the
officer making the sale, one other of said freeholders shall be chosen by the debtor, and
the other of said freeholders shall be chosen by the officer, and in case the creditor and
debtor, or either of them shall neglect or refuse to name a freeholder, it shall be the
duty of the officer to choose for the person neglecting or refusing, and to give notice to
the freeholders thus chosen, in writing, under his hand, fixing the time and place in
said notice they will be required to meet.
Skc. 4. It shall be the duty of the freeholders, upon the receipt of the notice and
the tender of the fee hereinafter named for services in making the valuation, to meet at
the time and place mentioned in the notice, and before proceeding to make the valua
tion of property exempt under this act and requiring a valuation thereof, shall take
the following oath or affirmation, to wit: (I do solemnly swear or affirm, as the case
may be, that I will appraise the property of A. B., exempt from execution or attach
ment process under and by virtue of the laws of this State, at its true value in money,
and that I will true schedule make to the best of my knowledge and understanding,)
and shall then proceed to value the property designated and set apart by the debtor,
and to make two schedules, distinctly stating the respective articles and the value
thereof, with a certificate certifying that the articles mentioned in said schedule have
been appraised at their true value in money, and were designated and set apart by the
debtor and claimed by him or her as exempt from execution or attachment process.
Such certificate shall be signed by the freeholders or a majority of them. The articles
mentioned by name in Section I of this act, shall not be valued or included in said
schedule.
Sec. 5- Any freeholder chosen as aforesaid and due notice given, who shall neglect
or refuse to perform the duties required by this act, shall forfeit and pay a fine of five
dollars to the officer serving the notices, for the use of the county wherein the freehold
ers reside, and to be by such officer paid to the county treasurer, and if the freeholder
forfeiting as aforesaid shall refuse or neglect to pay said fine for five days, it shall be
the duty of the officer aforesaid to collect said fine and all proper costs thereon by levy
and sale of the goods and chattels of the freeholder so forfeiting. The cost of levy
and sale shall be the same as is provided by law for the levy and sale of property made
by a collector of county taxes.
Sec. 6. The fees for the service of the freeholders in making the valuation required
by this act shall be the same as are allowed by law to referees before justices of the
peace, and the fees to the officer serving the notices shall be the same as are allowed
by law for summoning referees before the justices of the peace, and shall form a part
of the costs of the case upon which the officer is proceeding to make the sale.
Sec. 7. The officer making the sale, and serving the notices required, shall have
authority to administer the oath required by this act, and it is hereby made the duty of
such officer.
Sec. 8. Nothing in this act shall apply to debts created or contracts entered into
prior to the passage of this act, and nothing herein contained shall be construed as ex
empting any personal property from taxation, or sale for taxes under the laws of this
State.
Sec. 9. That any husband and wife jointly may make any waiver of any of the pro
visions of this act.
Sec. 10. All acts or parts of acts inconsistent with this act be and the same are hereby
repealed.
Passed at Dover, April 10, 1873.
CHAPTER 479, Vol. 15, Laws of Delaware.
A SUPPLEMENT TO THE ACT ENTITLED "AN ACT TO EXEMPT
FROM EXECUTION PROCESS, CERTAIN ARTICLES OF PERSONAL
PROPERTY, PASSED AT DOVER, APRIL 10, EIGHTEEN HUNDRED
AND SEVENTY-THREE.
Section I. That the act entitled an act to exempt from execution process, certain
articles of personal property, be and the same is hereby amended so as to extend and
apply all the provisions of exemption of said act to every case of persons residing in this
State who die, leaving a widow, giving and securing to such widow the same benefit
of exemption that her husband would have under the said act, if living.
Sec. 2. That the appraisers appointed by the register upon the granting of letters ot
administration upon goods and chattels, rights and credits of every intestate person,
who dies insolvent, shall lay off, or set apart for the use of the widow of said deceased,
personal property of said deceased, to be by her selected, not exceeding in value, two
hundred dollars.
Passed at Dover, March 22, iSyy.
CHAPTER 146, Vol. 16, Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT IK RELATION TO THE EXEMPTION FROM EXECUTION PRO
CESS OF CERTAIN PERSONAL PROPERTY.
Section i. That from and after the passage of this act, the amount exempted from
execution process under the provisions of Section I, Chapter 562, Volume 14, Laws
of Delaware, be and the same is hereby reduced from the sum of seventy-five dollars
to the sum of fifty dollars in and for the county of Kent.
Sec. 2. That from and after the passage of this act, the amount exempted from execution process under the provisions of Section 2, Chapter 562, Volume 14, Laws of
Delaware, be and the same is hereby reduced from the sum of two hundred dollars to
the sum of one hundred and fifty dollars, in and for the county of Kent, and the personal
property exempted as therein provided, shall, in the said county of Kent, con• /v L 1 j a 1
sist of household goods only.
Sec. 3. That Section 2 of this act or the act to which it is supplemental, shall not
apply to the county of Sussex, but on the contrary the said county of Sussex is hereby
expressly excepted from the operation of the provisions of Section 2 of this act, and
the act to which it is a supplement.
Passed at Dover, March 28, i8jg.
CHAPER 538, Vol. 16, Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT EXEMPTING FROM EXECUTION OR ATTACHMENT PROCESS
AND FROM DISTRESS FOR RENT, SEWING MACHINES OF SEEMSTRESSES
AND PRIVATE FAMILIES.
SECTION I. That in addition to articles now exempt by law, all sewing machines
owned and used by seamstresses or private families, shall be exempt from levy and
sale on execution or attachment process and also from distress and sale for rent : Provided,
this act shall not apply to persons who keep sewing machines for sale or hire.
Passed at Dover, February g, 1881.
INQUISITION.
Sec. 3. When lands and tenements have been seized and taken in
execution by virtue of any writ of fieri facias, the sheriff in office,
or the person who shall have seized and taken in execution such
lands and tenements, shall, at the election of the plaintifff in the ex
ecution, inquire by two judicious and substantial freeholders duly
sworn, or affirmed, whether the yearly rents and profits, beyond all
reprises, of such lands and tenements will be sufficient, within seven
years, to satisfy the debt, or damages, and costs in such execution,
and shall certify and return such inquisition annexed to the writ
under which the same is made. Ten days' written notice of such
inquisition shall be served personally on the defendant, or left at
his usual place of abode, if he reside in the county. If he does not
reside in the county, such notice shall be served ou the tenant, or,
if there be no tenant, shall be left at the mansion-house, or, other
public place, on the premises.
Sec. 4. The plaintifff in an execution, his agent, or attorney,
may, upon motion to the court, or in vacation upon application to
the prothonotary, obtain a rule upon the sheriff in office, or the per
son who shall have seized and taken in execution lands and tene
ments by virtue of any writ of fieri facias to hold an inquisition
as aforesaid, upon such lands and tenements, and to return the same
within thirty days after the date of such rule.
Sec. 5. If such rule shall be laid upon a sheriff who did not take
in execution the lands and tenements to be inquired on, it shall
set forth the names of the parties, plaintifff and defendant, the term
to which the writ of fieri facias was made returnable, the amount
of the debt, damages and costs in said writ expressed, together with
the real debt and interest, if any be thereon indorsed, and a descrip
tion of the lands and tenements returned on said writ.
Sec. 6. A rule to hold an inquisition shall be served, in writing,
upon the person on whom it is laid, at least ten days before the ex
piration thereof.
Sec. 7. A neglect to hold an inquisition in obedience to a rule
issued and served as aforesaid, shall be deemed a contempt of the
court issuing such rule, and may be proceeded against accordingly.
Sec. 8. Nothing contained in the foregoing sections, shall dis
charge a sheriff from the liability incurred by a neglect, or refusal,
to make due return of a writ of fieri facias, as hereinafter provided.
Sec. 9. If, from the return of the sheriff, or person holding an
inquisition, as aforesaid, it shall appear that the rents and profits,
beyond reprises, of the lands and tenements taken in execution are
sufficient, within seven years, to satisfy the debt, or damages, and
costs in such execution, a writ of elegit may issue, under which the
lands and tenements inquired on shall be delivered to the plaintifff'
in the execution, to be held until the debt, or damages, and costs
are levied by a reasonable extent, in the same manner as lands are
delivered upon writs of elegit in England.
Sec. 10. If, upon inquisition as aforesaid, the rents and profits,
beyond reprises, of lands and tenements, taken in execution, are
found not suffioient, within seven years, to satisfy the debt, or dam
ages, and costs in such execution, or if, before an extent be out, any
other debt, or damages, shal 1 be recovered against the same defend
ant, his heirs, executors, or administrators, which, with what remains
due upon that extent, cannot all be satisfied within seven years out
of the rents and profits of the premises extended, the sheriff shall
return accordingly; and thereupon a writ, or writs, of venditioni
exponas may issue to sell such lands and tenements for the satisfac
tion of what shall so remain due upon such extent, and also towards
satisfaction of all the rest of the said debts, or damages, as in other
cases.
ELEGIT.
Sec. 11. If a sheriff, on entering upon lauds and tenements to D
execute a writ of elegit, shall find the same in possession of the r
defendant in the writ, his executors, or administrators, or of any
person holding under him, or them, or any of them, he shall remove
the person, or persons, so in possession, and deliver the premises to
the plaintifff, or his agent, without inquiring into the defendant's
title thereto.
Sec. 12. If the defendant in the elegit shall hold only an B
undivided share of the lands and tenements mentioned in the writ, h
the other owner, or owners, of a share, or shares, shall not be re
moved from the possession of the premises ; but only the shares of
the defendant shall be delivered, and only the defendant, or person
holding under him, shall be removed from the possession as afore
said.
Sec. 13. If the sheriff, upon executing a writ of elegit, shall not
find the defendant, nor any person holding under him, in possession s
of the lands and tenements mentioned in the writ, he shall, upon
inquiring the value of such lands and tenements, also inquire by the
same jury, upon oath, or affirmation, into the title of the defendant
in the elegit to the premises therein mentioned, and shall certify
and return such inquisition annexed to the writ under which it is
made.
Sec. 14. If, by such inquisition, it shall be found that the lands
and tenements, mentioned in the writ of elegit, are liable to be taken
in execution for the debt, or damages, and costs therein, the court
shall award a writ in the nature of a writ ot habere facias posses
sionem, under which the sheriff shall deliver to the plaintifff, or his
agent, the said premises, and remove from the possession of the
same the person, or persons, possessed thereof, and all persons who
may become possessed thereof at any time after said inquisition.
Sec. 15. The finding of the jury, upon an inquisition as aforesaid,
shall not be conclusive; but a person removed from lands
under an elegit, or any other person, may maintain an ejectment, or
any other proper legal remedy, for recovering possession of the
premises, notwithstanding such finding, if the same were not liable
to execution for said debt, or damages, and costs.
Sec. 16. If the jury, upon an inquisition as aforesaid, shall find
that the lands and tenements mentioned in the writ of elegit are notco
liable to execution for the debt, or damages, and costs therein, the
plaintifff shall not be thereby concluded, but may proceed in such
manner as he might do before the passing of this chapter.
Sec. 17. If a person holding lands under a writ of elegit, whether
the original tenant, his executors, administrators, or assigns, lie
evicted, by due course of law, from the same, or any part thereof,
before the amount to be levied by the said writ is satisfied, the
court, out of which the writ issued, shall, upon application, grant a
rule to show cause why the said writ and return thereupon shall
not be vacated and other execution awarded upon the judgment, or
other relief granted according to the circumstances of the case.
Upon this rule the court shall exercise equitable powers. They may
direct an account of rents and profits, and in such account may
allow for expenses in defending against the suit in which the evic
tion was determined, and all proper items.
VENDITIONI EXPONAS.
Sec. 18. A writ of venditioni exponas for the sale of any goods
and chattels, lands and tenements, taken in execution by virtue of
a writ of fieri facias, may be issued and directed either to the sheriff
in office, or his immediate predecessor (he having seized and taken
in execution such goods and chattels, lands and tenements,) at the
election of the plaintifff in execution ; and all proceedings had, by
virtue thereof, shall be valid in law.
Sec. 19. The person to whom such writ of venditioni exponas
may be directed, shall, for neglect, or failure, in the execution
thereof, or in making return thereon, be subject to all such rules of
court, suits, fines, and other process and proceedings, as any sheriff
is, or can be liable to in like cases.
LEVARI FACIAS.
Sec. 20. By a writ of levari Jaeias, the sheriff, or other officer,
^0 wnom the same is directed to be executed, may seize and sell, at
public sale, unimproved lands, and lands yielding no yeariy
profit, with or without a writ of venditioni exponas ; subject
to the same provisions representing notice of sale, application of
the proceeds thereof, the execution of a deed to the purchaser, the
issuing of a liberari facias for the delivery of lands which cannot
be sold, and the title under such sale, or delivery, as are hereinafter
contained for the sale of lands under execution process in other
cases.
SALE UNDER EXECUTION.
Sec. 21. Goods and chattels, taken in execution by a sheriff, or
coroner, shall not be sold until the expiration of thirtv davs after
the levy thereon and notice thereof to the defendant, unless the
court, issuing the execution, shall, in term time, or a judge thereof
shall, in vacation, upon application of the plaintifff, or of the officer
holding the execution, and on its being shown that the goods and
chattels are of a perishable nature, or will create a charge by keeporfjer ine game to be sold sooner. Such order shall direct reas
onable notice of the sale, according to the circumstances.
Sec. 22. Public notice of the sale of goods and chattels by •
sheriff, or coroner, under execution process, and of the day, hour,
and place thereof, shall be given by advertisements posted, at least
ten days before the day of sale, in five, or more, public and suitable
places in the county, two of which, at least, shall be in the hundred,
of the defendant's residence, if he reside in the county ; and one
such advertisement shall, ten days at least before the day of sale,
be delivered to the defendant, and one to each plaintifff" in the exe
cution, and also to each plaintifff" in any other execution, or execu
tions, at the time in the hands of the sheriff", or coroner, or shall be
left at the usual place of abode of such defendant and plaintifff's re
spectively, if there be such place of abode within the county ; and
if any plaintifff in any such execution as aforesaid, shall reside out
of the county, such advertisement shall be delivered to the attorney
of such plaintifff, if there be an attorney of record, and one such
advertisement shall be transmitted to such plaintifff by mail, being
inclosed and addressed to him at the post office nearest his place of
abode ; an advertisement shall also, at least ten days before the
day of sale, be delivered to the defendant's landlord, or his agent, i
there be such residing in the county. The provisions of this and
the next foregoing section do not apply to execution process issued
by justices of the peace.
Sec. 23. [Public notice of the sales of lands and tenements under
execution process, shall be given by advertisements posted, at least,
ten days before the day of sale, in ten of the most public places of
the county where the premises are situated, setting forth the day,
hour, and place of sale, and what lands and tenements are to be
sold, and where they lie. One of the said advertisements shall be
posted in the hundred in which the premises are located, and one,
at least, in each of the hundreds which immediately adjoin the said
hundred; a like advertisement shall be delivered, at least, ten days
before the day of sale to the defendant, or left at his usual place of
abode, if he have a known place of abode in the county ; if the
defendant do not reside in the county, notice shall be served on the
tenant, or if there be no tenant, shall be left at the mansion house
or other public place on the premises. The provisions of the next
foregoing section respecting the delivery of an advertisement of the
sale of goods and chattels under execution process, to each plaintifff
in the execution, and also to each plaintifff" in any other execution
or executions, at the time in the hands of the sheriff or coroner,
shall be in all respects applicable to the case of the sale of lands
and tenements under execution process. [Notice of such sale asc
aforesaid shall also be advertised for two weeks previous to the time
of said sale in two newspapers of the county wherein the said property is situated to be settled by the sheriff: Provided, that not
more than three insertions per week shall be made in any one news
paper : And provided further, that if there is only one newspaper
published in said county at said time, the sheriff may select a news
paper in one of the other counties, and if there shall be no news
paper in said county he may select two in the other counties : And
provided furtha-, that the publishers of said newspapers shall not
be paid for such advertising a higher rate than their ordinary
charges for transient advertisements.]]
Sec. 24. All sales of real estate, made by a sheriff by virtue of
. 1111 i i * J i ,
^exeeutiou process, shall be made on the premises to be sold, or at
some public house, either in the hundred in which the premises
are situated or in the adjoining hundred, at the discretion of the
sheriff selling the same. [The Court House in each county shall
^ considered a public house for the purpose of such sales,] [and
tne building situated in the town of Dover, Kent County, in which
tj]e county offices are kept, generally known as the County Building,
shall also be considered a public house for the purposes of such
sales.]
Sec. 25. A sheriff, constable, or other person making sale of
goods and chattels by virtue of any process, or order, shall not,
either directly, or by the agency of another, purchase any of such
goods or chattels ; and any person offending against this section,
shall forfeit and pay double the value of the goods, or chattels, so
purchased, to be recovered as debts of like amount are recoverable,
one-half for the use of the State, and the other half for the use of
the person sueing.
Sec. 26. Upon confirmation by the court of any sale of"
lands and tenements, made by virtue of execution process, the
sheriff, or officer making the sale, shall execute, acknowledge and
deliver to the purchaser a good and sufficient deed for the premises
so sold.
Sec. 27. The grantee in any deed, executed under the forego
ing section, shall hold the premises therein conveyed, with all their
appurtenances, as fully and amply, and for such estate and estates,
and under such rents and services, as he, or they, for whose debt, or
duty, the same shall be sold, might, or could, do at or before the
taking thereof in execution.
Sec. 28. In any case of sale as aforesaid, the purchaser shall be
entitled to rent for the premises sold from the day of sale. If such
premises be in possession of a tenant under rent, such rent shall be
apportioned, according to the time ; the proportion for the time the
rent has been growing due to the day of sale, being payable to the
lessor or his assigns, and the residue to the purchaser; and each party
shall have remedy by distress, or action, for his just porportion.
A purchaser may recover his proportion of rent, although such
rent be reserved by deed (as well as rent from the day of sale,
in case no rent has been reserved) by an action of assumpsit for use
and occupation.
In any action or proceeding, for such rent, any fair defense, which
would have availed against the person as whose property the pre
mises were sold, shall avail against the purchaser ; but if a rent re
served be not a lair rent for the premises, and the lease, or eontract,
be posterior to the order, or to the date of the judgment, in
execution, or by virtue whereof the sale shall be made, the pur
chaser shall not be limited by the rent reserved, but may demand
and recover a fair rent. If the crop be sold separately from them
soil, the demand of the purchaser shall proportionally abate.
Sec. 29. If a sale be made of lands and tenements by order of
the chancellor, or by virtue of an execution, and the officer making
such sale, or the purchaser, be dead ; or if such officer be out 0fh
office, and the purchase money be paid, without a deed being made
pursuant to such sale ; the purchaser, or other person having right
under him by descent, devise, assignment, or otherwise, may prefer
to the Superior Court, or Court of Chancery, at any term of* said
courts, respectively, in the county wherein the premises are situate,
a petition representing the facts, and praying for an order author
izing and requiring the sheriff, or if there be legal exception to
him, the coroner of the county for the time being, to execute and
acknowledge a deed conveying to the petitioner the premises so
sold, or a just proportion thereof; and thereupon the court, or
chancellor, may make such order touching the conveyance of the
premises as shall be according to justice and equity.
Sec. 30. A deed, executed pursuant to an order made under the
foregoing section, shall pass to the grantee therein all the title and
estate to and in the premises therein conveyed, which in pursuance
of the sale, and of the execution, or order by virtue whereof such
sale was made, can. or ought to be passed ; but if the person, to
whom such deed shall be executed, shall not be entitled to the
same, according to justice and equity, or if a greater estate be con
veyed to the grantee than he is justly entitled to, such deed, or
order, shall not prejudice any person having right, but such deed
may be decreed to be upon trust, or any person, having right, may
be otherwise relieved according to equity and good conscience.
Sec. 31. An order made upon such petition as aforesaid, being
duly certified, the petition and order shall be recorded in the office
of the recorder of deeds for the county wherein the premises are
situate ; and such record, or a certified copy thereof, shall be com
petent evidence of such petition and order.
Sec. 32. A deed for lands and tenements, sold by virtue of a
writ of venditioni exponas, directed to the predecessor of the sheriff
at the time in office, (such predecessor having seized and taken in
execution such lands and tenements), shall be valid in law, without
petition to, or order of, any court for making such deed.
Section I . That real estate sold by virtue of execution process shall be discharged
from all liens thereon against the defendant, or that one or more of the defendants (if
there be more than one) whose property such real estate is, except such liens as have
been created by mortgage or mortgages prior to any general liens ; and with respect
to sucn> tne sa^e sna" De a discharge to the extent to which the proceeds thereof may
be legally applicable to a judgment or judgments obtained for the debt to secure
the payment of which the mortgage or mortgages respectively (if there be more than
one) appear to have been given.
^EC' 2' That where there is any lien by mortgage, judgment or recognizance (not
being the first) against the defendant or some one or more of them (if there be more
... r . . . ... .
than one) in the process referred to in the first section of this act, with condition other
tnan f°r tne Pay™ent of money or for the payment of money as or in the nature of an
annuity, or for the payment of interest to one or more persons during their lifetime and
the principal at their death to some other person or persons, or otherwise, in all such
cases such part of the aforesaid proceeds of sale as shall be legally applicable to any
such lien shall be paid into the court out of which the said process issued and shall be
invested by said court [or by a majority of the judges in said court in vacation] or
otherwise disposed of for the benefit of the parties interested as shall be just and pro
per under the circumstances ; such payment into court shall discharge the officer selling
the property from all liability for the money so paid,
Passed at Dover, March 29, iSfi.
CHAPTER 680, Vol. 18, Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT IN RELATION TO THE ADVERTISEMENT OF SHERIFF'S
SALES.
Section I . That in advertisements of notice of sale of real estate in newspapers, by the
sheriff of any county in this State, under execution process, it shall be sufficient if the
property to be sold shall be described therein in such manner that the same may be
readily identified. It shall not be necessary to describe the same by metes and bounds,
or courses and distances. Nor shall it be necessary in any case to follow the descrip^ ^ property in the writ of execution under which it is sold.
Passed at Dover, April ig, 1889.
LIBERARI FACIAS.
Sec. 33. Jf lands and tenements, exposed to sale by virtue of exprocess, cannot be sold for want of buyers, the sheriff, or
officer, shall make return upon the writ accordingly. Such return
shall not make the officer liable for the debt or damages contained
in the writ ; but a writ of liberari facim shall be awarded and di
rected to the proper officer, commanding him to deliver to the
plaintifff such part, or parts, of the premises as shall satisfy his debt,
or damages, with interest and costs, according to the valuation of
twelve men, to hold to him as his free tenement, in satisfaction of
his debt, damages and costs, or so much thereof as the premises, by
the valuation of twelve men as aforesaid, will amount to.
Sec. 34. It lands delivered upon a liberari facias under the foregoing
section fall short, according to the valuation aforesaid, of satisfying the whole debt, damages and costs for which they are deliv
ered, the plaintifff may have execution for the residue as in other
cases.
Sec. 35. The execution and return of a writ of liberari facias
shall, without deed, or other act, pass to the party to whom the"
lands are delivered, the same title and estate therein which is taken
by a purchaser of lands sold under execution process, and conveyed
by deed from the sheriff, or officer selling the same.
WRIT OF POSSESSION.
Sec. 36. If lands and tenements be sold by order of the chancellor, [or by order of the Orphans' Court] or by virtue of execution
process, and the defendant, or one or more defendants, or anv
person holding as tenant under such defendant or defendants, by
lease, or contract, posterior to such order, or to the date of
the judgment whereon such execution was issued, be in pos
session of the premises sold : or if such defendant, or defendants,
shall have died in possession of the premises sold within one year
next preceding the day of sale, and the person in possession either
shall have come into possession after such defendant, or defendants,
and by means of his or their possession, or shall hold under, or
through a person so coming into possession, the purchaser may have
a writ of possession awarded pursuant to such sale.
Sec. 37. The chancellor, if the sale be by his order, [or the Orphans' Court, if the sale be made upon its order] or the court out
of which the execution issued, if the sale be by virtue of an exe-ch
cution, upon application of the purchaser, and oath or affirmation
by him, or some credible person for him, in writing, stating a proper
case for the awarding of such writ, shall grant a rule upon the de
fendant, owner or owners of the premises sold, and also upon the
person in possession of the premises, if any person other than the
defendant be in possession, to show cause, on a day in said rule
specified, why a writ of possession shall not be awarded for putting
the purchaser in possession of said premises. A writ of possession
shall not be issued without such rule made absolute.
Sec. 38. A rule for a writ of possession shall not be granted unless
applied for at the term of the return of the sale, or at the next
succeeding term.
Sec. 39. Such rule shall be served at least two days before the
expiration thereof ; but if the defendant do not reside in the county
wherein the proceedings shall be, the court may order service on
the tenant in possession to be sufficient.
Sec. 40. If the defendant be in possession bona fide, as tenant
under, or by permission of another, a writ of possession shall not
be awarded.
Sec. 41. If the defendant be owner of an undivided share, the
writ shall be restricted to such share ; and any holder of another
share, or his tenant, shall not be removed, or further disturbed than
by putting the purchaser into peaceable possession of the undivided
share of the defendant.
Sec. 42. On making the rule for a writ of possession absolute,
the court may direct a reasonable stay of execution. If the person
in possession be a tenant, execution shall be stayed until the usual
expiration of the year of tenants, according to the custom of let
ting in the place, or neighborhood, wherein the premises are situate.
Sec. 43. A writ of possession may be according to the follow
ing form, viz:
County, ss. The State of Delaware,
—*—."J To the sheriff of said county, greeting:
l. s. V We command you, that without delay you cause
~—v—' J to have peaceable possession of (here insert descrip
tion of the premises) which were lately sold by virtue of a writ of
venditioni exponas issued out of our (here insert the style of the
court) in the said county, returnable to term 1 8 , at
the suit of plaintifff, vs. defendant;
and have this writ, with your doings thereon certified, at our said
court to be held at , on the day of next.
Witness , at , the day of , in the
year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and—.
Prothonotary.
If there be legal exception to the sheriff, the writ may be directed
to the coroner. If the sale be by order of the chancellor, omit from
the word " venditioni" to the word " defendant," both inclusive,
and instead thereof insert, an order of our chancellor, made in our
Court of Chancery, at , in a certain cause between
complainant and defendant ; and the writ may be adapted
to the case by any necessary variation in the form.
Sec. 44. Nothing hereinbefore contained shall deprive a purchaser
0I" bis remedy by action of ejectment, nor debar from such
remedy a person removed from possession ; and any proceedings
under the foregoing section, shall not be conclusive as to the title of
either party.
ATTACHMENT.
Sec. 45. The plaintifff in any judgment in a court of record, or
^ person for him lawfully authorized, may cause an attachment,
as well as any other execution, to be issued thereon, containing an
order for the summoning of garnishees, to be proceeded upon and
returned as in cases of foreign attachment ; and the said attach
ment, condemnation, or judgment thereon, shall be pleadable in bar
by the garnishee as aforesaid in any action against him at the suit
of the defendant in the attachment. Goods which are perishable,
or will create a charge by keeping, may be sold on the order of a
judge as in cases of foreign attachment.
[The answer of a garnishee in any execution attachment, at thec
option of the plaintifff therein, mav be taken by affidavit before
i 11 i • i i • • i ii
any person legally authorized to administer oaths; and when so
taken and filed with said writ of attachment shall be docketed in
the same manner and have the same effect as if taken in open court ;
and the garnishees mileage, in such cases shall be counted from hisM
residence to the office of the person taking his affidavit, and endorsed thereon.]
CHAPTER 561, Vol. 14, Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT RELATING TO THE EXEMPTION OF WAGES FROM EXECU
TION ATTACHMENT PROCESS.
Section I. That the following shall be exempt from execution attachment process
under the laws of this State, to-wit : 1st. Fifty per centum of the amount of the
wages for labor or service of any person residing within the State of Delaware, at
tached under said process, and judgments obtained by virtue of said process shall be
rendered only for so much of the wages so attached as shall remain after the said fifty
per centum thereof shall have been deducted, and the wages so deducted and exempted
shall not, thereafter, at any time or in any case, be subject to any execution attach
ment process whatsoever. 2d. The entire amount of the wages for labor or service
of any married woman during coverture. 3d. The entire amount of the wages for
. , r .
labor or service ol any minor.
Sec. 2. From every judgment given by a justice of the peace, either without referee
trial or upon the report of referees, to an amount exceeding five dollars, exclusive
of costs, under the execution attachment laws of this State, the party against whom
such judgment is given may appeal to the Superior Court ; or in case any part of the
plaintifffs demand, or of the garnishee's counterclaim or set-off, exceeding five dol
lars, is disallowed or defalked, such plaintifff or garnishee may appeal to said court.
The proceedings shall be as in other cases of appeal.
Sec. 3. This act shall not extend to or affect any contract or debt made or incurred
prior to the 1st day of May, A. D. , 1873, nor shall it extend or apply to execution attachment process issued within Kent or Sussex county.
Passed at Dover, April S, 1873.
CHAPTER 542, Vol. 16, Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT TO EXEMPT WAGES FROM ATTACHMENT PROCESS.
Section I. That on and after the passage of this act, the amount of the wages for
labor or service of any person residing within New Castle County, shall be exempt
from (mesne attachment process and execution attachment process, under the laws of
this State. [Except where the said execution attachment process is for board orlodging or both, as the case may be, and for an amount not exceeding fifty dollars, exclu
sive of costs. ]
Sec. 2. That the exemption provided for by this act shall not apply to debts contracted
prior to the passage of this act. All laws or parts of laws inconsistent with the
provisions of this act, are hereby repealed, made null and void.
Passed at Dover, February 22, 1875.
Amended at Dover, March 22, 18&1.
RETURN OF EXECUTIONS.
®EG" Every fa™ facias shall be actually returned by the
sheriff to whom the same was delivered before the rising of the
court, to which it is returnable, ou the second day after the return
day mentioned in the writ, with the said sheriff's certificate of what
he has done thereon in usual and legal form,
Sec. 47. Where the levy, or seizure, by virtue of a fieri facias
shall have been of goods and chattels unsold at the return dav, the
d •* *
sheriff shall annex to the writ an inventory of each article of such
goods and chattels, with an appraisement of the same, duly made
and certified, so that their value may be judged of.
Sec. 48. If there have been a levy, or seizure, of lands, the
sheriff 's return shall specify the principal improvements thereon, if
any, as well as the known, or computed, quantity and situation
thereof. The sheriff shall also annex to the writ an inquisition,
testifying whether the yearly rents and profits, beyond all reprises,
of the lands and tenements, so taken in execution, be sufficient,
within seven year, to satisfy the debt and damages in such execution,
agreeably to the provisions in that behalf of this chapter.
Sec. 49. Where the levy, or seizure, in either of the cases aforesaid, shall be returned as made subject to prior executions, the
sheriff shall, in his indorsed, or annexed return, set forth as well
the names of the plaintifffs in such prior executions as shall have
come to his hands, as the sums thereby to be levied.
Sec. 50. If any sheriff shall neglect to make such return of any
wr** °^ ^er' ^ac'as *° mra directed, in due form and within the time
sj[)oye i;mited, he shall answer for the debt, damages and costs in
the said fieri facias mentioned, iu the same manner as if he had
returned thereon, levied to the value of the sum or sums of money
therein mentioned, and may be proceeded against accordingly.
CAPIAS AD SATISFACIENDUM.
Sec. 51. No writ of capias ad satisfaciendum shall be issued
upon any judgment in a civil action [against any free white person],
until a writ of fieri facias on said judgment, shall have issued, and
it shall appear from the return of such fieri facias, that the defend
ant therein has not either real, or personal property within the
county sufficient to satisfy the debt, or damages in said fieri facias
expressed ; or until the plaintifff in such judgment, or some credible
person for him, shall make a written affidavit, to be filed in the
prothonotary's office before the issuing of the writ, stating that he
verily believes that the defendant has not either real, or personal,
estate sufficient to satisfy the debt, interest and costs contained in
such judgment.
Any writ of capias ad satisfaciendum issued, contrary to the fore
going provision, shall be void, and the plaintifff obtaining such
writ shall be liable to all the costs of the same.
Sec. 52. No writ of capias ad satisfaciendum shall be issued out
of any court of this State upon a judgment in a civil action,
[against any free white person] nor shall any such person be im-ch
prisoned for the non-performance of a decree for the payment ofv
money, until the plaintifff in such [judgment,] or the party in
whose favor such decree shall be, or some credible person for him,
shall, in addition to the requirement of the preceding section, make
a written affidavit, to be filed in the office of the prothonotary, or
register in chancery, as the case may be, before the issuing of the
process, stating, that the defendant in such judgment, or decree, is
justly indebted to the said plaintifff in a sum exceeding fifty dollars,
and that he verily believes the said defendant has secreted, conveyed
away, assigned, settled, or disposed of either money, goods, chattels,
stocks, securities for money, or other real, or personal estate, of the
value of more than fifty dollars, with intent to defraud his creditors ;
and shall moreover, in such affidavit, specify and set forth the
supposed fraudulent transactions.
Any writ of capias ad satisfaciendum, issued contrary to the fore
going provision, shall be void, aud the plaintifff obtaining such writ
shall be liable to all the costs of the same.
*******
Sec. 53. Any judge in vacation shall, upon petition of the person
arrested, and reasonable notice in writing to the party in whose
favor the process issued, his attorney, or solicitor, investigate the
specifications of fraud in an affidavit made under the foregoine
section ; [or under Section 15 of chapter 99] and, upon such inves
tigation, may discharge the petitioner from imprisonment, or re
mand him for trial by a jury at the next term of the Superior
Court of the county wherein the process issued ; upon a plea deny
ing the said specifications of fraud, or may make such order in the
premises as he shall deem just and proper.
Sec. 54. The provisions of Section 52 of this chapter, shall not
apply to any person imprisoned by authority of the United States,
nor to any other than execution, or final process, or commitment,
for debt, or damages, or costs, of a civil suit, or non-performance
of a decree for the payment of money.
SCIRE FACIAS ON MORTGAGE.
Sec. 55. Upon breach of the condition of a mortgage of real estate by non-payment of the mortgage money, or non-performance{£°i
of the conditions stipulated in such mortgage, at the times and in
the manner therein provided, the mortgagee, his heirs, executors,
administrators, or assigns, may, at any time after the last day
whereon the mortgage money ought to be paid, or other conditions
performed, sue out of the Superior Court of the county, wherein
the mortgaged premises are situated, a writ of scire facias upon
such mortgage directed to the sheriff of the county, and command
ing him to make known to the mortgagor, his heirs, executors, or
administrators, that he, or they, be and appear before the said court
to show cause, if any there be, wherefore the said mortgaged prem
ises ought not to be seized and taken in execution for payment of
the said mortgage money, with interest, or to satisfy the damages
which the plaintifff in such scire facias shall, upon the record, sug
gest for the nou-performance of said conditions,
Sec. 56. The defendant in a scire facias on a mortgage, may
plead satisfaction, or payment, of all, or any part of the mortgage
money, or any other lawful plea in avoidance of the deed, as the
case may require.
Sec. 57. If the defendant fail to appear at the return day of the
sc£re f(lciflli) definitive judgment therein, as well as all other judg
ments to be given upon such scire facias, shall be entered that the
plaintifff have execution by levari facias directed to the proper of
ficer.
Sec. 58. Under a levari facias, awarded as aforesaid, the mortgaged
premises shall be taken in execution, and after notice given in
the same manner as in other cases of the sale of lands upon execu
tion process, shall be exposed to public sale, and upon such sale,
and confirmation thereof, shall be conveyed by deed to the pur
chaser ; or if there be no sale for want of bidders, return shall be
made accordingly, and thereupon a liberari facias may issue and be
executed in the same manner, and with like effect, as hereinbefore
is provided in other cases of the sale of lands upon execution pro^ec. The person to whom any lands and tenements shall be
sold, or delivered, under the next foregoing section, and his heirs
and assigns, shall hold the same, with their appurtenances, for such
estate, or estates,as they were sold, or delivered for,discharged from all
equity of redemption, and all other encumbrances made and suffered
jjy tne mortgagor, his heirs, or assigns; and such sales shall be avail
able in law : provided, that such sale, or delivery, shall not create
any further term, or estate, to the vendees, mortgagees, or creditors,
than the said lands and tenements were mortgaged for.
Sec. 60. Any overplus of the proceeds of sale of mortgaged
premises, as aforesaid, after satisfying the principal debt in the
mortgage, with insterest and costs, shall be rendered to the debtor,
or defendant; and until the same is so rendered, the officer making
the sale shall not be discharged upon the record of the court to
which said sale is returnable.
Section i. That whenever the dividing line between any two counties of this State
shall run through a tract of land conveyed in mortgage a writ a scire facias may be sued
out in either county in which any part of such tract is situated, directed to the sheriff of
the county in which such writ is sued out, and the said sheriff shall be authorized to make
service of the said writ notwithstanding any person or persons liable to such service
and residing in this State may live outside his bailiwick, and the Superior Court of the
county wherein such suit is brought may give definitive judgment upon such scire facias
with the same effect as if the said lands lay wholly within such county.
The writ of levari facias awarded upon any such judgment for the sale of any
such tract shall be directed to the sheriff of the county wherein the judgment was
given, and the said sheriff shall proceed in the same manner as is prescribed in other
sale of the cases of lands upon such execution process, and shall have authority on the
said writ to sell the said tract of land in the whole, and altogether at one and the
same time, and to make return thereof to the court out of which the said writ is issued,
and ujxm confirmation of such sale by the said court to make a deed to the purchaser
conveying the whole as fully as if the same had been wholly situated in his bailiwick.
Any deed so made shall be recorded in each of the counties in which the land is
situated, notice of any such sale shall be set up in at least five of the most public
places in each ot the hundreds in which the said land or any part thereof is located.
Passed at Dm<cr, March zg, iS8j.
SCIRE FACIAS ON JUDGMENT.
Sec. 61. A writ of scire facias may be sued upon a judgment in
a personal, or mixed action, as well as upon a judgment in a real action, as also upon all recognizances, to obtain execution of such judg
ment, or recognizances. Such writ may be sued by and against the
parties to the judgment, or recognizance, and also by and against
any other persons entitled, or liable, to the execution thereof,
whether as executors, administrators, heirs, terre-tenants, or other
wise.
Sec. 62. An execution may be issued upon a judgment recovered
before a justice of the peace, and of which a transcript shall have
been filed and entered in the Superior Court, or on a judgment upon
an appeal from a justice of the peace, at any time within five years
from entering the transcript, or giving the judgment on appeal,
without scire facias, unless it shall be necessary to make a party
defendant. A party plaintifff may be made by suggesting the facts
and stating the proper party on the record, without scire jfrcias, and
the proceeding shall be in the name of the proper party so stated.
CHAPTER 451, Vol. 11, Laws of Delaware.
N ACT IN RELATION TO THE EXECUTION OF JUDGMENTS IN CIVIL
ACTIONS.
Secton I. That an execution may be issued upon a judgment in a civil action at
any time within five years from the time when such judgment was entered or rendered,
or from the time when such judgment became due ; or to collect any installment of a
judgment within rive years from the time when such installment fell due. This section
shall only apply to cases when no execution has been previously issued to collect such
judgment or installment, and to cases where one or more have been issued for such pur
pose, and it appears by the return of the officer that such judgment or installment, as
the case may be, has not been paid or satisfied. As to all such cases the law shall re
main as at present.
Sec. 2. That no judgment shall be deemed to be paid or satisfied, in whole or io
part, by a levy on execution process, unless it appear otherwise than by the fact of such
levy, that such payment or satisfaction has been made.
Passed at Dover, March 4, /Sjy.
LIEN OF EXECUTIONS.
[Sec. 63. An execution shall not bind goods and chattels until it
is delivered to the sheriff or other proper officer to be executed. Au
execution shall, from the time it is so delivered, bind all the good?
and chattels of the defendant within the bailiwick, which shall be
actually levied upon within sixty days thereafter. No levy upon
goods and chattels, made by virtue of execution process, shall be
of any force or effect as against a subsequent execution levied upon
the same goods and chattels for a longer period than three years
from the making of such first mentioned levy.]
Sec. 64. If several executions against the same defendant be de
livered on the same day, the first delivered shall have priority. If
several executions against the same defendant be delivered together,
they shall have priority according to their respective numbers.
Sec. 65. The prothonotary, issuing an execution, shall indorse
thereon the date of its issue.
Sec. 66. The sheriff, or other officer, receiving an execution,
shall, in a docket, set down the date of receiving it ; and when sev
eral executions are delivered on the same day, the docket shall
show the order in which they are received. He shall also indorse
upon an execution, immediately on receiving it, the precise time of
its delivery to him.
Sec. 67. The provisions of the four next foregoing sections do
not apply to executions issued by justices of the peace.
OTHER MATTERS.
Sec. 68. When an execution is issued upon a judgment for a
penalty, the officer issuing the same shall indorse thereon the real
debt and the time from which interest is to be calculated.
Sec. 69. If a person arrested, or imprisoned, by virtue of an
execution, die in execution, or escape ; in either case, the arrest, or
imprisonment, shall be no satisfaction of the judgment, on which
the execution is issued ; and the execution shall be held to be in no
part executed by such arrest or imprisonment.
Sec. 70. If a person, arrested, or imprisoned, by virtue of an
execution, be suffered to escape, the sheriff, constable, or other officer having the custody of such person at the time of his escape,
shall be answerable for the full amount payable according to the
execution ; and the person at whose suit the execution was issued,
or for whose use itis indorsed, his executors, oradrninistrators, shall
have an action of debt therefore, against such sheriff, constable, or
other officer, his executors, or administrators. The non-payment
of said amount shall be a breach of the condition of the official re
cognizance or obligation, of such sheriff, constable, or officer.
Sec. 71. If, after the sale of real estate upon execution process,
the judgment upon which such vrit is awarded shall be reversed
for error, the real estate, so sold, shall not be restored, nor any part
thereof, nor shall the sale thereof be avoided ; but in such case, res
titution only of the money for which such lands may be sold, shall
be made.
CHAPTEK 186, Vol. 15, Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT PROVIDING FOR THE PAYMENT OF FUNERAL EXPENSES,
MEDICAL, NURSING, AND NECESSARY BILLS OF LAST SICKNESS
IN CERTAIN CASES.
Section I. That whenever any sherfW or constable, by virtue of any execution
process, shall supersede an executor or administrator, and sell the goods and chattels
of any deceased person, on whose estate there have been letters testamentary or of
administration granted, shall out of the proceeds of said sale, and before applying any
part thereof towards satisfying any execution, pay, 1st, funeral expenses of said deceased
: 2d, the reasonable bills for medicine and medical attendance during last sickness of the deceased, and for nursing and necessaries for the last sickness of the de
ceased.
Sec. 2. That in case there has been no administration or letters testamentary granted
on the estate of the deceased, any sheriff or constable selling said deceased person's
goods by virtue of any execution process, shall, before applying any proceeds of the
sale towards satisfying any execution, pay in the order in which they stand, the said
bills mentioned in Section I of this bill.
Passed at Dover, March 2, /SysCHAPTER 144, Vol. 16, Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT TO AUTHORIZE THE SHERIFFS OF THE SEVERAL COUN
TIES TO MAKE A RECORD IN CERTAIN CASES.
Section I. That the sheriffs of the respective counties of this State shall procure
proper books and enter therein the disposition of all monies arising from the sale of
property under execution process, when the same is applicable otherwise than to exe, . , ,
cutions in their hands.
SEC. 2. The said books shall be furnished by the Levy Court of each county, to the
sheriff of each county, and shall be kept in the prothonotary' s office of such county,
as other records are kept, to be taken from there only by the sheriffs respectively, when
it is necessary to make entries therein, and his compensation for every such entry shall
noj jje jess tjJan f^fty cents, unless the said entry shall exceed five in number, when it
shall be ten cents for every such entry, and such charge shall be included in the costs
charged by the said sheriff.
^EC- 3- ^e Pr°thonotary of each county shall note upon the record of each judgment
to which any application of money shall be made as aforesaid, a reference to the
, , , , .„
record so made by the snenn.
Passtd at Dover, March 28, 1S79.
CHAPTER CXIL
OF DEFECTS IN PLEADING AND THE AMENDMENT THEREOF.
Sec. 1. What defects are considered on de
murrer.
a. Judgment not to be reversed for for
mal defects.
3. What defects are cured by judgment,
4. I )efects cured after verdict,
5. Death between verdict and judgment
not to be alleged for error in the
judgment.
6. Errors released by a reference, or by a
confession of judgment.
7. Error in stating representative char
acter, amendable.
8. On marriage of a female plant iff, no
error to proceed without the hus
band.
g. Oath presumed to be properly admin
istered.
10. Record amendable in any clerical er
ror.
Sec. 10. Or in any respect, if anything to
amend by.
Writs of scire facias amendable.
Writs of ex^cntion ; or of error.
11. Any error is amendable before judg
ment.
12. And any formal error after judgment
13. The common counts may be filed in
assumpsit, at any time before the
jury takes the case.
14. Amendments allowable during the
trial.
15. The form of action is amendable.
16. A verdict is amendable during the
term.
17. A wnt of error lies to <
specting amendments.
Section 1. Upon a demurrer, the court shall not consider any
defect not specially alleged, if, upon the whole matter appearing,
judgment can be given according to the merits of the case,
^EC" ^" ^° jU(lgment shall De reversed for any defect, or imperfection, in matter of form which might, by law, have been
amended.
Sec. 3. Judgment shall not be arrested, or reversed, for any
variance between the writ and declaration ; nor for any error in
the writ; nor for want of a warrant of attorney ; nor for want of
entry of the admission of next friend, or guardian; nor because
an infant plaintifff' prosecuted, or appeared, by attorney ; nor for
the omission of continuances ; nor for default of a profert, or
of a reference to a record ; nor for omitting to allege that an act
was done "with force and arms," or " against the peace," nor for
want of any, or for a wrong venue; nor for any defect, or omission,
in setting forth the summoning, or qualification of jurors; nor for
any clerical misprision, or formal defect whatever, if, upon the
whole record, there appears substantial ground for the judgment.
Sec. 4. After verdict, judgment shall not be arrested, nor re
versed, for error in the form of action; nor for misjoinder of causes
of action ; nor for any error in any count, if there be a sufficient
count in the declaration, unless it expressly appears that some part
of the verdict was found on matter not contained in any good count.
Sec. 5. The death of either party, between verdict and judgment,
shall not be alleged as error, if judgment be entered within two
terms after the verdict.
Sec. 6. The entry of a reference shall be a release of all previous
error. The confessing a judgment shall be a release of all errors,
Sec. 7. If an executor be named as administrator, or conversely,
i ■,• . , J
in any pleading, it may be amended.
Sec. 8. If a female plaintifff marry, and the action proceed without
making the husband a party, it shall not be error.
Sec. 9. When it appears that an oath, or affirmation, has been
administered by competent authority, it shall be presumed to have
been properly administered unless the contrary appear.
Sec. 10. Writs of scire facias, of execution, and of error, may
be amended ; and, after judgment, the court before whom a record is,
may order the amendment of any clerical error in any part of such
record ; and when there is matter to amend by, may order any
amendment that will tend to the furtherance of justice.
Sec. 11. In any civil cause pending before the Superior Court,
the said court shall have power, at any time before judgment, to
allow amendments either in form or substance, of any process,
pleading or proceeding, in such action on such terms as shall be just
and reasonable.
Sec. 12. After judgment rendered in any civil action, any defects,
or imperfections, in matter of form, found in the record, or proceedings,
in the action, may be rectified and amended by the
court in which the judgment is rendered, or by the court to
which it shall be removed by writ of error, if substantial justice
requires it, and if the amendment is in affirmance of the judgment.
Sec. 13. In actions of assumpsit the plaintifff may, on motion,
without costs, or continuance, at any time before the cause is comraitted to the jury, file any of the common counts applicable to thej
case, including also the money counts, and the counts on an account stated. It shall be no objection that the jury have been
sworn.
Sec. 14. In any civil cause pending before the Superior Court,
the said court shall have power, during the trial, to allow an amendment of the record when any variance shall appear between it and
any written, printed, or verbal evidence in any particular in the
judgment of the court, not material to the merits of the ease and by
which the opposite party cannot have been prejudiced in the con
duct of his action, or defense ; such amendment shall be forthwith
made by the prothonotary with, or without, the payment of costs to
the other party, or on such other terms as the court shall think
reasonable, and thereupon the trial shall proceed as if no variance
had appeared ; or the court may, in its discretion, and upon such
terms as it shall consider just, order a juror to be drawn, and post
pone, or continue the cause.
Sec. 15. Whenever a plaintifff in an action shall have mistaken
the form of action suited to his claim, the court, on motion, may
permit amendments to be made, on such terms as they shall judge
reasonable.
Sec. 16. If there be a general verdict on a declaration contain
ing several counts, the plaintifff may, at any time during the term,
on motion, have leave to amend the verdict and enter it on any
count on which the evidence by law would, at the trial, have en
titled him to recover, and may have leave to strike out of his de
claration any defective counts.
Sec. 17. From any decision permitting, or refusing, an amendment
during the trial, the party aggrieved may have a writ of error
as upon other judgments of the court ; or shall have remedy, by
motion for a new trial, or non-suit, or other motion, to bring the
decision in review before the court itself ; and the court may, on
application, reserve such motion for hearing before all the judges
in the Court of Errors and Appeals.
CHAPTER CXIII.
OF BILLS OF EXCEPTION, CASES STATED, AND RESERVED QUES
TIONS.
Sec. i. Bill of exceptions to be signed, when
tendered,
a. What may be excepted to.
3. Must be proposed when the point is
decided.
Must be in writing.
Sec. 3, And signed during the term,unlcss,&c.
4. A case stated is a part of the record.
5. Reserved questions must be signed.
And certified to the Court of Appeals.
6. Security may be required on r
questions.
Section 1. Upon the trial of any case on a judgment in which
a writ of error will lie, either party, in order to place upon record
any point of law arising in the course of the trial and material to
the determination thereupon, may propose an exception upon such
point of law ; and the chief justice of the court, or in his absence
from the trial, the justices present, shall sign a bill, if presented,
truly stating such exception, with all matters requisite for under
standing the same. The bill, so signed, shall be a part of the
record, and the matter of law therein appearing shall lie considered
on a writ of error.
Sec. 2. Exception may be taken, as aforesaid, to the overruling
of a challenge ; to the admission, or rejection of a witness, or of
any evidence; to the refusal of a demurrer to evidence; to the
charge delivered to the jury ; to a refusal to charge the jury upon
a point of law duly made; or to the decision upon any point of
law arising in the course of the trial and material to the determin
ation thereupon, which decision will not otherwise appear by the
record.
There shall be no exception to the allowance of a challenge, nor
to any direction respecting the manner of conducting the trial.
Sec. 3. The exception must be proposed when the point is decided. Upon its being proposed, either party may insist, or the
court may require, that the substance of it shall be immediately
settled and reduced to writing and signed by the chief justice, or in
his absence by the other justices. The bill of exception must be
drawn in form, and signed during the term in which the exception
is proposed, unless the parties otherwise agree with the assent of
the court.
Sec. 4. A case stated in any action shall be a part of the record ;
and upon a writ of error it shall be considered by the court of
error.
Sec. 5. The party, upon whose application any questions of law
are reserved by the Superior Court to be heard in the Court oft
Errors and Appeals, shall, if the case require it, make a written
statement of the questions reserved, in such form as the court may
approve; and the same shall be signed by one of the judges of the
Court in which the questions are reserved, and shall be certified by
the prothonotary of the said court to the Court of Errors and Ap
peals as a part of the record of the case.
Sec. 6. The Superior Court may require the party applying, to
have any questions of law reserved for hearing in the Court of
Errors and Appeals, to enter into a bond, or recognizance, before
the court, or any judge, with surety to be approved by such court,
or judge, and with condition to abide the judgment of the Court of
Errors and Appeals, and pay the condemnation money and all costs
which may be adjudged against him ; or the Superior Court may,
in its discretion, prescribe any other security, or any other terms
consistent with justice.
Section 1. In a court of law, whether of original jurisdiction,
or of error, upon a discontinuance, non pros, nolle prosequi, retraxit,
or non suit, there shall be judgment for costs for the defendant;
and generally, a party for whom final judgment is given in anv
civil action, or on a writ of error upon a judgment in such action,
shall recover, against the adverse party, costs of suit, to be awarded
by the court.
Sec. 2. If final judgment be given for the defendant in a civil
suit, which is in the name of the State, for the use of any person,
or corporation, judgment for costs shall be given against such per
son, or corporation.
Sec. 3. Concerning costs on petitions, motions, rules and inter
locutory matters, not specially provided for, the court shall make
such order in each case as it may deem proper.
Sec. 4. A court of equity, the Register's Court, the Orphans'
Court, and the Superior Court exercising appellate jurisdiction from
the two last mentioned courts, shall make such order concerning
costs in every case as shall be agreeable to equity.
Sec. 5. Upon affirmance of a judgment in the Court of Errors
aUcl Appeals, the costs of the defendant in error shall be added, bv
way of increase, to his costs in the first judgment, and be a part of
said judgment; and the amount may be stated accordingly in the
process and pleadings.
Sec. 6. In any proceeding before a judge, or the chancellor, out
of court, there may be allowed for the service ot process, or the at
tendance of witnesses, a reasonable fee, not exceeding what is allow
able for like service, or attendance, in proceedings before a justice
ot the peace ; and the judge or chancellor, may make such order
for the payment thereof as he shall consider just, and enforce
obedience by attachment.
Sec. 7. If any person shall bring suit in any court upon a
cause of action cognizable before a justice of the peace under chap
ter 99, and shall not recover more than fifty dollars, besides costs,
he shall not recover costs ; unless he, or some credible person, shall
previously filed in the office of the prothonotary a written affidavit to the effect, that the plaintifff has a just cause of action
against the defendant exceeding in amount fifty dollars.
Sec. 8. Upon an appeal from a justice of the peace, the party
recovering judgment on the appeal, shall, as a part of said judg-f
ment, recover his costs, as well those before the justice as those upon
the appeal, subject to the provisions of the two sections next fol
lowing.
Sec. 9. If a party appealing from the justice of the peace on
the special ground of his demand, or a part thereof, being disallowed,
shall not establish a demand exceeding what was allowed to
him before the justice by at least the smallest sum for the disal
lowance whereof he had the right of appeal, he shall not recover
his costs on the appeal, and shall pay to the appellee his costs on
the appeal.
Sec. 10. If a party appealing on the ground aforesaid, shall establish
a demand exceeding what was allowed to him before the
justice by such smallest sum, then the appellee, although there may
be still a sum due to him, shall recover no costs on the appeal.
Sec. 11. If upon a certiorari, a judgment, given by a justice, be
reversed, the plaintifff in the certiorari shall recover his costs. If
such judgment be affirmed, costs shall be awarded to the de
fendant in certiorari, except where the only exception being to the
execution below, such exception is allowed ; in which case, the
plaintifff in the certiorari shall recover costs.
Sec. 12. Within twenty days after the rendering of judgment, or
other determination of any cause, or action, in the Court of Errors
and Appeals, Superior Court, or Court of Chancery, or criminal
prosecution in the Court of Oyer and Terminer, or Court of Gen
eral Sessions, the clerk, prothonotary, or register of said court shall
enter upon the docket of such cause, action, or prosecution, a full
bill of the costs therein, setting forth distinctly each item of the fees
of every officer and person, so far as the same shall be known to him,
or he shall have in his office the means of ascertaining the same.
Sec. 13. Upon every execution, order, or process in the nature
of an execution, whereby costs are to be levied and made, the clerk,
prothonotary, or register, issuing the same, shall indorse all costs up
to the time of the issue, showing distinctly each item of the sheriff's
fees, the amount of the fees of every other officer and person, and
the names of the officers and persons respectively to whom such
fees are due ; except that the fees of the jury, and bailiff, and of re
ferees, may be indorsed in the aggregate under those heads.
Sec. 14. The clerk of the Orphans' Court shall, within twenty
days after the determination of a case of exceptions to accounts,
enter on the docket thereof a full bill of the costs in such case ; and
also shall enter in the margin of the record of any order, return, or
other matter, at the time of recording the same, a full bill of the
costs upon such order, return, or other matter, showing distinctly
each item of the fees of every officer, or person, so far as he shall
know, or have in his office the means of ascertaining the same ; and
Up0n jsgujjjg an order, he shall indorse thereon every item of his
own fees accrued to the time of such issue.
Sec. 15. If any clerk, prothonotary, or register, shall refuse, or
neglect, to perform any of the duties enjoined upon them respectively by the three next foregoing sections, he shall forfeit all his
fees, which should have been set down in the bill, or indorsement,
that he ought to have entered or made, and shall also be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and be fined thirty dollars,
Sec. 16. Each of the before mentioned courts in term time, or
any judge of the court in which any costs shall have accrued in va
cation, shall, upon application of a party interested, and reasonable
notice to the adverse party, revise any bill of costs entered upon the
docket of such court, or of the court of which such judge is a mem
ber ; and also any return, or indorsement of fees upon any order or
process of such court ; and also any bills of fees demanded for ser
vices in such court, or for the execution of the order, or process
thereof ; and shall correct any errors appearing upon such revision.
CHAPTER 623, Vol. 17, Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT CONCERNING COSTS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.
Section I . That whenever hereafter suit shall be brought in any civil action, excepting
action where the venue is by law local against any citizen of this State, in any
other county than that wherein such citizen shall reside at the time of the inception
thereof, the plaintifff shall not recover his costs, and such costs shall not be payable by
the defendant nor collectable by execution process.
Sec. 2. That so much of any law as is inconsistent with the provisions of Section I
of this act, be and the same is hereby repealed.
Passed at Dover, April ij, i88j.
Of Official Notices.
CHAPTER 624, Vol. 17, Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT RELATING TO THE PUBLICATION OF OFFICIAL OR PUBLIC
NOTICES, &C.
Section I That whenever, under any general or special law or charter of this State.
. ./ r. .
any person or persons, natural pr artificial, is, are, or shall be authorized to issue or
publish any newspaper or newspapers on Sunday, any and every official or public
notice, rule, order, proclamation, announcement or advertisement may be published in
such newspaper or newspapers on Sunday with the same legal effect in all respects as
if published on any secular day of the week.
Section i. That in all cases in which notices are now required by law to be posted
at the Court House door in Kent county, shall hereafter be posted on the bulletin
board, in the county building in Kent county, and not at the Court House door afore
said.
Section 1. Every person imprisoned,or restrained of his liberty
by any officer, or person, for any cause, or under any color or pre
tense, shall have remedy by the writ of habeas corpus, and may
obtain relief, except —
first, Persons committed, or detained, on a charge of treason, or
felony, the species whereof is plainly and fully set forth in the
commitment ;
Second, Persons convicted of, or charged with treason, felony, or
any offense in another State, who ought, by the constitution of the
United States, to be delivered to the executive of such State ; and
Third, Persons imprisoned by the authority of the United States.
Sec. 2. The writ of habeas corpus shall be awarded and issued
by the Superior Court in term, or by any judge of that court, or
by the chancellor, in vacation.
Sec. 3. Application for such writ may be made by the party
complaining, or any one for him, setting forth, upon oath, where,
and by whom, and for what cause, to the best of his knowledge, he
is imprisoned, or restrained of his liberty, and exhibiting a copy of
the commitment, if there be any, or showing why such copy could
not be procured.
Sec. 4. The court, or judge, to whom such application is made,
shall, without delay, under penalty of a thousand dollars to the
party aggrieved, award and issue a writ of habeas corpus under seal
of the court, directed to the officer, or person, in whose custody the
prisoner is detained, returnable forthwith before such court, or judge.
The writ may be served by any one who will do the service.
Sec. 5. When the writ is served on the person to whom it is directed,
either personally, or being left with any deputy, or agent of
his at the place where the prisoner is detained, such person shall,
without delay and within three days thereafter, if such place be not
more than twenty miles from the place of return, and, if otherwise,
within six days, make return of the writ, and produce the body of
the prisoner as therein commanded ; and shall fully certify in writing and under oath, the true cause, or causes, of his detainer, and a
copy of all process under which he is detained.
The return may be contradicted, and may also be amended.
Sec. 6. The court, or judge, shall, upon such return, without delay, proceed to examine the causes of imprisonment, or restraint,
giving notice to any party interested, and to the attorney general,
or his deputy, in cases of felony ; but the examination may be adjourned, if necessary, and the prisoner detained.
Sec. 7. If no legal cause be shown for the imprisonment, or
restraint, the court, or judge, shall discharge the party therefrom.
Sec. 8. If the party is detained for any cause, or offense, for
which he is bailable, he shall be discharged on becoming bound by
recognizance, in a proper sum and with sufficient surety, for his ap
pearance at the court having cognizance of the matter ; and if he do
not give such security, he shall be remanded with an order therefor expressing the sum in which he shall be held to bail, and the
court at which he shall be required to appear ; and any justice of
the peace may, at any time before the sitting of the said court, bail
the party pursuant to such orders.
Sec. 9. If the party is committed on mesne process in a civil
action for want of bail, and it shall appear that the sum required is
excessive, the court, or judge, shall decide what bail is reasonable,
and shall order that, on giving such bail, the party shall be dis
charged.
Sec. 10. If the party is lawfully imprisoned, or restrained, and
is not eutitled to be enlarged on giving bail, he shall be remanded,
or otherwise properly committed.
Sec. 11. If any officer, or his deputy, shall neglect, for six
hours after demand, to deliver a true copy of any warrant, or process, by which he detains a prisoner to any person who shall de
mand such copy, and tender a reasonable sum for copying the same,
such officer, or deputy, shall forfeit and pay to such prisoner two
hundred dollars.
Sec. 1 2. If any officer, or person, to whom the writ of habeas
corpus shall be directed, or any deputy of such officer, or agent of
such person, shall neglect to return the writ, and produce the
body as required by section 5, it shall be a contempt of the court
under whose seal the writ issued, and a forfeiture of office : and
such officer, or person, deputy, or agent, shall forfeit and pay to the
prisoner five hundred dollars,
[Where the writ of habeas corpus is made returnable before the
chancellor or any judge of the Superior Court in vacation, such
contempt shall be punishable by the chancellor or such judge by
both fine and imprisonment, or either, in his discretion ; and the
chancellor or sucn judge shall have power, by attachment for con
tempt, to compel the production before him of the body of the per
son imprisoned or restrained of his liberty.]
^EC' No person who has been discharged on a habeas corpus
shall be again imprisoned, or restrained, for the same cause, unless
he shall be indicted therefore, or convicted thereof, or committed for
want of bail by some court having jurisdiction of the cause ; or
unless, afler a discharge for defect of proof, or for some material
defect in the commitment in a criminal case, he shall be again
arrested on sufficient proof, and committed by legal process for the
same offense.
Sec. 14. But no person shall be discharged for a mere defect in
the commitment, if the evidence before the court, or judge, is sufiicient to require that he should be committed, or bound for his ap
pearance.
In such case the committing magistrate shall be summoned,
proper witnesses examined, and the accused committed properly.
Sec. 15. The costs in any proceeding under this chapter, may be
ordered to be paid by the county, or otherwise ; but if the commit
ment be insufficient, the justice, or officer, who made it, shall have
no compensation for attendance.
Sec. 16. If any one who has in his custody, or under his power,
any person entitled to a writ of habeas corpus, whether any writ
has been issued or not, shall, with intent to elude the service of
such writ, or to avoid the effect thereof, transfer such prisoner to
the custody, or place him under the power, or control, of any other
person, or conceal him, or change the place of his confinement, the
person, so offending, shall forfeit and pay to the party aggrieved
thirty-six hundred dollars.
Sec. 17. If any person shall be committed for treason, or felony,
auc* sna'l not indicted and tried at the next term of the court
where such crime is cognizable, he shall be set at liberty on bail,
»* appear by affidavit that the witnesses for the State (nammg them) could not then be had ; and if such prisoner shall not be
indicted and tried at the second term after his commitment, he shall
be discharged from prison.
Sec. 18. A person committed by a justice, or justices, of the
peace, or by the mayor or any alderman of any city, or town, for a
contempt, shall be entitled to the writ of habeas corpus.
Notice shall be given to the committing magistrate of the time
o o o
and place of hearing. The prisoner may deny the alleged contempt,
under oath ; and the court, or judge, may remand, or discharge the
party.
Sec. 19. In any action, or proceeding, for any offense against
this chapter, the defendant may plead the general issue, and give the
special matter in evidence.
shall have judgment, or if he be defendant, shall have a scire
facias, and an execution for the same, with the costs of the action.
CHAPTER CXVIL
OF RECOGNIZANCES AND BONDS AND PROCEEDINGS THEREONSec. i. Recognizances to the State in trust
for party injured.
2. Such party may sue thereon.
3 Rule to consolidate such actions.
4. Breaches may be assigned ; how.
5. Damages may be assessed, at law, or
by inquisition.
6. Or by confession ; or reference.
7. Or on judgment by default ; how.
S. Judgment must be for damages ; not
penalty.
9. Recognizances, &c, not extinguished
by judgment for lessthan penalty.
10. But not beyond the penalty.
xx. Priority of claims where the penalty
is inadequate.
Sec. 12. Delivery on elegit may be to repre
sentatives of a party.
These may become party, by sugges
tion.
13. These provisions extend to instal
ments.
14. Not to judgments confessed.
15. Lien of official bond. &c.
16. Satisfaction of recognizance in chan
cery and Orphan!*' Court to be en
tered in sixty days.
17. Penalty. Damages.
18. Copy of public bonds, &c. Evidence;
The originals may be required.
Section 1. Every recognizance and bond, acknowledged, or ex
ecuted, pursuant to any law, or by direction of the Governor, or
of any court, by an executor, administrator, sheriff, or other officer,
or person, to the State, with condition for the payment of money,
or the execution, or performance, of any office, trust, or duties, shall
be not only for the benefit of the State, but also upon trust for
every person, or corporation, that may be injured by the breach of
such condition.
Sec. 2. Every person, or corporation, injured by the breach of
the condition of any public recognizance, or bond, as aforesaid, may,
in the name of the State, but for his or it3 own use, institute an
action upon such recoguizance, or bond, and prosecute the same to
judgment and execution; and for that purpose, may employ an at
torney of the court wherein the action shall be brought, who may,
in the declaration and other pleading, use his own name, instead of
the name of the attorney general.
Sec 3. If several actions shall be brought upon the same recogbond,
or penal sum, whether for the use of the same, or
different persons, or corporations, and the court shall consider that
the said actions, or any two of them, ought to be consolidated, it
shall make a rule for that purpose; and it may disallow any part
of the costs of the actions consolidated, or make any order concern
ing the costs, which it may deem proper.
Sec 4. In an action upon a recognizance, bond, or penal sum,
breaches as many as it shall be deemed proper to insist upon, may
be assigned in the declaration or other regular pleading, or by way
of suggestion entered upon the record ; and the jury shall assess the
damages on occasion of the breaches assigned, as the truth thereof
shall appear.
Sec. 5. Upon judgment for the plaintifft by default, or on demurrer,
or otherwise, without trial by a jury, and without an agree- "
ment for ascertaining the damages, the breaches may be assigned,
by way of suggestion upon the record, after judgment, and the
action being put upon the trial list, the truth of the breaches sug
gested may be inquired of, and the damages on occasion thereof,
assessed, either by a jury at the bar of the court, or upon a writ of
inquiry.
Sec. 6. Damages may also be ascertained by confession, by the°
report of referees, or otherwise, according to the agreement of the
parties, with or without a formal assignment of breaches.
Sec. 7. If the condition, or agreement for breach whereof the
action is brought, be merely for the payment of money, or interest,
by installments, or on different days, and there be judgment for theS
plaintifff by default, or upon demurrer, or otherwise, without trial
by a jury, or agreement for ascertaining the damages ; in such case,
the damages, or the amount justly due and payable according to
such condition, or agreement, may be ascertained as the court shall
order.
Sec. 8. In an action upon a recognizance, bond, or penal sum as
aforesaid, judgment shall not be rendered for the penalty (except
as is hereinafter provided) ; but damages on occasion of the breaches
complained of, being assessed, or ascertained, judgment shall be for
the sum of such damages as debt, with costs of suit.
Sec. 9. A recognizance, bond, or penal sum, shall not be extinguished by a judgment in an action thereon, if for a sum as debt
less than the penalty, but shall remain as a security for any damages sustained, or to be sustained on occasion of other breaches ;
and for the recovery of such damages, actions may be instituted
from time to time upon such recognizance, bond, or penal sum.
Sec. JO. Nothing herein contained shall make a recognizor,
obligor, or other party, liable for damages beyond the penalty of
his recognizance, bond, or specialty ; or in any manner extend,
abridge, or alter the legal operation of any recognizance, or other
instrument. ,
Sec. 11. If the penalty of a recognizance, or bond, acknowledged,
or executed, as mentioned in the first section of this chapter, shall not be adequate to cover all the damages sustained on
occasion of the breaches of the condition thereof, and such damages
shall be sustained by several persons, or corporations ; such persons,
or corporations, shall stand in priority, according to the respective
dates of commencing the actions for their uses respectively. A
failure to use due diligence in prosecuting any action, shall deprive
it of such priority, and postpone it to all the actions pending at the
time of such failure, such failure to be determined and certified by
the court.
Sec. 12. In case of execution by writ of elegit, the premises
sna^ ^e delivered to the person, or corporation, for whose use the
judgment shall have been recovered, or to the executors, or admin
istrators, of such person ; and the command of the writ shall be
accordingly.
The names of such executors, or administrators, with the decease
0f tne testator, or intestate, may be suggested upon the record,
without scire facias, in term time or in vacation.
Sec. 13. The foregoing provisions of this chapter shall extend
*° an act'on upon a bond, or specialty, in a penal sum, with condi
tion for the payment of money, or interest of money, by install
ments, or on different days ; unless such action shall be commenced
after all the sums, whether for principal, or interest, which accord
ing to such condition can become payable, shall have become pay
able. But if the action be commenced after all the sums which,
according to such condition, can become payable whether for prin
cipal or interest, shall have become payable ; or if the action be
upon a bond, or specialty, in a penal sum with condition for the
payment of money in a gross sum, judgment for the plaintifff shall
be for the penalty and costs of suit, to be discharged upon the pay
ment of the sum justly due, with interests and costs; which said
sum justly due shall be found by a jury, or otherwise shall be as
certained as may be agreed by the parties, or ordered by the court.
Sec. 14. None of the foregoing provisions shall extend to a war^
n . 0 r . .j
rant of attorney to confess judgment, nor to any action, or judg
ment entered, or confessed, in pursuance of such warrant of at
torney.
lien of public recognizance and bonds.
Sec. 15. Every recognizance, or obligation, acknowledged for a
Penal sum> with condition for the performance, by an officer, of the
duties °f n's office, or of any public trust, shall, from the caption
of such recognizance, or from the time of the acknowledging and
approving of such obligation, be a lien upon all the lands and tene
ments of the officer, being the principal obligor therein, within the
county wherein such recognizance, or obligation, is taken or ac
knowledged ; but the same shall not be a lien upon the lands and
tenements of the sureties therein.
SATISFACTION OF RECOGNIZANCES.
Sec. Every person to whom a sum is due by a recognizance
taken in the Orphans' Court, or in the Court of Chancery, receiving
satisfaction of the same, shall, within sixty days thereafter,
^jjgg mcfo satisfaction to be entered upon the record of such recog
nizance. Such satisfaction shall be entered by the clerk, or regis
ter in chancery, upon application of the party, or his attorney, who
must sign the entry.
Sec. 17. Every person committing a default under the foregoing
section, shall be liable to the recognizor in such recognizance,
or the executors, or administrators, of such recognizor, in damages
to be recovered by an action on the case. The damages shall not
be less than ten, nor more than fifty dollars, except when special
damages to a larger amount shall be alleged in the declaration, and
proved.
Sec. 18. If any recognizance, or bond, mentioned in the first section
of this chapter, shall according to law be recorded, or deposited in any public office ; a copy of such recognizance, or bond,
or of the record thereof, duly certified, shall be competent evidence.
Any court may, for sufficient cause, require the production of
the original recognizance, bond, or record ; and it shall be the duty
of the officer, having custody thereof, to produce it as required.
CHAPTER CXVIII.
OF SUITS FOR LEGACIES.
Sec. i. legacies are recoverable at law.
If there are assets.
Value of specific legacy, recoverable.
2. Infant legatees' suit.
3. When legacies shall abate.
4. Auditors to report on question of as
sets.
Sec. 5. Exception to auditor's report.
6. Abatement for deficiency of assets.
Scire facias for balance,
7. Costs.
8. Refunding security. Specific legacy.
9. Return ot part of legacy ; when.
Section 1. A legacy, when due, shall be recoverable at law by
an action of assumpsit, debt, detinue, or account render, as the casec
may require, provided there be assets for the payment of the same.
Assets in the hands of an executor, or administrator, to pay a legacy,
shall create a legal liability and raise a consequent promise to
pay it. In case there be not assets to pay the whole legacy, a part
may be recovered.
If the delivery of a specific legacy have been refused, the value
of it may be recovered in this action.
Sec. 2. An infant legatee may sue for his legacy by guardian, ore
next friend, as in other cases.
Sec. 3. If there be assets sufficient to pay the debts of a testator,
with a surplus not sufficient to pay all the legacies bequeathed, an
abatement from the legacies respectively, shall be made in propor
tion to their several amounts, unless it be otherwise provided by
the will.
Sec. 4. Upon the plea of a want of assets to pay all the debts
and legacies, the court shall appoint auditors to examine the accounts of the executor, or administrator with the will annexed ;
who, after full hearing of the parties upon notice to them respec
tively of the times and places of such hearing, shall report the con
dition of the said accounts, what assets will remain after payment
of the debts aforesaid, and what proportion of such residue is prop
erly applicable to the plaintifff's legacy, having regard to all such
settlements of said accounts as may have been made before any
court, or officer, having authority to settle the same.
Sec. 5. Exceptions may be taken by either of the parties to the
report of auditors appointed as aforesaid ; and thereupon the court,
upon hearing the exceptions, may correct any errors in such report.
Sec. 6. If, upon the aforesaid proceeding, the assets be found
insufficient to pay all the debts and legacies of the testator, execu
tion shall be awarded only for such proportion of the assets as mar
be properly applicable to the plaintifff's legacy ; but judgment for
the whole legacy shall be entered and shall stand as a security for
the payment of the residue of the legacy, when sufficient assets for
such payment shall come to the hands of the executor, or adminis
trator. A scire facias shall lie for further execution, suggesting
that other assets have come to the hands of the executor, or admin
istrator.
Sec. 7. The court shall exercise equitable powers in respect to
costs. In case of inexcusable neglect, or delay, on the part of the
executor, or administrator, to pay the legacy demanded, or a pro
portional part thereof, the court may, in its discretion, order that
the costs be paid by him. No costs shall be recovered in an action
brought for a legacy, without a reasonable demand for the same
first made upon the executor, or administrator, who ought to pay
the same.
Sec. 8. The court shall exercise equitable powers in requiring
the plaintifff to give security to refund the legacy, or any part there
of, and also in respect to the delivery and acceptance of a specific
legacy.
Sec. 9. If there be several legacies, and a return of part of a
legacy, which has been paid, becomes necessary, the legatee shall
only be required to return a proportional part of his legacy towards
taking up the whole sum wanting.
CHAPTER CXIX.
OF EJECTMENT.
Sec. i. Mode of trying title to lands. I Sac. 3. Tenant to give landlord notice,
a. Landlord admitted to defend, on teims I
Section 1. The legal title to lands, or to any tenements whereon
entry can be made, may be tried in auaction of jeectment; and no
objection shall be made to the form of action, or to the right
of the lessor of the plaintifff to make the demise, if he could re
cover the premises in any form of action.
Sec. 2. If a tenant holding under a demise, be served with a
declaration in ejectment, his landlord, upon entering into the COmmon rule, shall be admitted defendant with the tenant in such eject
ment. If the tenant refuse to appear, and the landlord apply to
be admitted defendant, judgment shall be entered against the casual
ejector, with stay of execution subject to the order of the court ;
and the landlord on entering into the common rule and admitting
on record that he is, and, at the time of commencing the action,
was in the possession of the premises mentioned in the declaration,
or any described part thereof for which he defends, shall be ad
mitted defendant.
Sec. 3. If a tenant, being served with a declaration in ejectment, neglect to give a notice thereof, without delay, to his landlord,
or his agent, he shall be liable, as is provided in section 72 of
Chapter 120.
Section 1 . Any contract, or consent, pursuant to which a tenant
shall enter into, or continue in possession of lands, tenements, or
hereditaments, under an agreement to pay rent, shall be a demise.
Sec. 2. Where no term is expressly limited, a demise shall be
construed to be for a year, except of houses and lots usually Jet for
a less time.
Sec. 3. No demise, except it be by deed, shall be effectual for a
longer term than one year.
Sec. 4. If there be a demise for a term of one or more years,
and three months, or upwards, before the end of the term, either
the landlord do not give notice in writing to the tenant in possess
ion to remove, or the tenant do not give like notice to the landlord
of his intention to remove from the demised premises, the term
shall be extended for another year, for which the tenant shall pay
the rent, and all the stipulations of the demise shall continue in
force.
[Section four of this said chapter shall not be taken or held to
prescribe any time as to notice when the letting is for a less time
than a year; but that wheu a letting is by the month, [a month's]
notice to quit shall be sufficient ; and when it is by the week, a
week's notice shall be sufficient.]
Sec. 5. If the tenant, or any person coming into possession by
his permission, or by collusion with him, shall hold over the de
mised premises after the end of the term, and after notice as afore
said given either by the tenant to the landlord, or by the landlord
to the tenant, or other person at the time in possession of the de
mised premises ; the tenant, or person, so holding over, shall, either
of them, at the landlord's election, be liable to pay double the rent
that was payable according to the demise, to be recovered by action,
or levied by distress, in the same manner as the single rent, if the
demise had continued, could have been; and in every such case the
withholding of possession shall be deemed a forcible detainer and
may be proceeded upon as such.
ATTORNMENT.
Sec. 6. Grants of rents, of reversions, and remainders, shall be
good and effectual without attornment of the tenants; but if a tenant, without notice of a grant in good faith pay to the grantor rent
in arrear, he shall have the benefit of such payment by way of dis
charge from the rent
Sec. 7. The attornment of a tenant to a stranger, unless with the
written consent of his landlord, or pursuant to a judgment, or de-v
cree, shall be void.
REMEDIES.
Sec. 8. An action of debt shall lie for the arrears of any rent,
whether in fee, in tail, or for life, either during the continuance, or™
after the determination of the freehold.
Sec. 9.. The executors, or administrators, of a person to whom
any rent was in arrear at the time of his death, whether such rente
were in fee, in tail, for life, or other estate, shall have the same
remedy by action, or distress, for such arrears, as the testator, or
intestate, if living, could have.
Sec. 10. The husband of a woman entitled to any rent in fee
simple, fee tail, for life, or other estate, shall have the same remedy
by action or distress after her decease, as during her life, for the ar
rears of said rent accruing during the marriage.
Sec. 11. A person entitled to any rent for the life of another
person, may distrain for any arrears of said rent, in the same manner after the death as during the life of such other person.
Sec. 12. The provisions of this chapter for the recovery of rent
by action, or for levying the same by distress, shall extend to any
rent arrear, whether of money, or a quantity, or share, of grain, or
other produce, or of any thing certain, or that can be reduced to
certainty, or whether it be a rent charge, rent-seek, quit- rent, or
otherwise (as well as rent accruing upon a demise), issuing out of,
or charged upon any lands, tenements, or hereditaments.
Sec. 13. Satisfaction for the use and occupation of lands, tenements, or hereditaments, by permission of a person, without demise
by deed or contract under seal for the rent, may be recovered in an
action on the case upon assumpsit ; and evidence of any demise
without deed, or of a contract not under seal, for a certain rent, shall
not defeat such action, but may be used to maintain the same.
Sec. 14. An action of assumpsit to recover satisfaction for the
use and occupation of lands, tenements, or hereditaments, shall lie,
where the person holding the same entered into possession thereof
under contract of purchase which shall be void, or shall, before the
action, have been avoided by consent of the parties, or otherwise
than by default of the vendor.
Sec. 15. When any lands, tenements, or hereditaments, are held
by demise of a person having an estate therein determinable on a
life, or any contingency, and said estate shall determine before the
end of the year, or quarter (if the rent be payable quarterly), the
rent shall be apportioned according to the time ; and the proportion
thereof for the time the same has been growing due, up to the de
termination of such estate, shall be paid to the lessor, or his execu
tors, or administrators, and may be recovered by action of debt, or
on the case. If, in case of the determination of such estate before
the end of the year, or quarter, the whole rent for the year, or
quarter, shall have been paid before such determination, a just pro
portion thereof, according to the time, to run after such determina
tion to the end of the year, or quarter, shall be refunded.
This section shall extend as well to a rent in kind, as to a rent of
money.
Sec. 16. Grantees of reversions and remainders in any lands, ten
ements, or hereditaments let to lease, and their heirs, executors, ad
ministrators, or assigns, shall have the same remedies, by entry, or
action, or otherwise, against the lessees, their executors, administra
tors, or assigns, for waste done, or for the non-performance of any
condition, covenant, or contract, contained in the leases, as the gran
tors could have.
Sec. 17. The lessees of any lands, tenaments, or hereditaments,
for life, or years, or their executors, administrators, or assigns, shall
have the same remedies and advantages against the grantees of the
reversions and remainders in such lands, tenements, or heredita
ments, or their heirs, executors, administrators, or assigns, for fionperformance
of any condition, covenant, or contract contained in
the leases (except a covenant of warranty of title), as they could
have against the grantors, or their heirs, executors, or administra
tors.
Sec. 18. Rent in arrear before a grant of the reversion, or re
mainder, or damages for the breach ot a covenant, or contract, com
mitted before such grant, shall not be assignable under the forego
ing provisions.
DISTRESS.
Sec. 19. A distress will lie for any rent arrear either of money,
or a quantity or share of grain, or other produce, or of any thing
certain, or that can be reduced to certainty, and whether the same
be a rent accruing upon a demise for life, or a term of one or more
years, or a less time, or at will, or a rent-charge, rent-seek, quitrent,
or otherwise, issuing out of, or charged upon any lands, tene
ments, or hereditaments.
Sec. 20. The person entitled to such rent, whether the original
lessor, or an asignee, heir, executor, or administrator, may distrain
for the same, either personally, or by his bailiff.
Sec. 21. A distress may be made either during the demise, or
afterward, while the tenant, or any person coming into possession
by, or under him, shall continue to hold the demised premises, and
the title to said premises shall remain in the person to whom the
rent accrued, or his heirs, devisees, executors, or administrators, or
be in his immediate reversioner, or remainderman.
Sec. 22. A distress may be as well of the grain, grass, and other
produce lound upon the premises out of which the rent issues, ord
upon which it is charged, whether growing, or severed, in sheaves,
stacks, or otherwise, as the horses, cattle and other goods and chat
tels being upon said premises ; except goods and chattels not the
property of the tenant, but being in his possession in the way of his
trade, or upon the said premises in the regular course of any occu
pation, or business, there carried on ; which exception shall extend
to horses and carriages at a livery stable, to property of boarders in
a boarding house, and to the beasts of a drover depastured while
passing through the county, as well as to the more obvious cases of
exemption at common law ; also except stoves not the property of,
but hired by the tenant, and beasts, not the property of the tenant,
escaping into the said premises through defect of fences, which the
tenant, or his landlord, was bound to repair.
Sec. 23. If the tenant, either during his term, or estate, or after
the end thereof, remove his goods and chattels, or any of them, from
the said premises without payment of the rent due, or growing due,
for the said premises, and without license from the landlord, or his
agent, in writing under hand ; the goods and chattels, so removed,
unless sold fairly for a valuable consideration and delivered to the
buyer, shall be liable, wherever found, to be distrained for said rent
for forty days after the removal ; or if the rent be not in arrear at
the time of the removal, for forty days after the rent shall become
in arrear.
Notice to the tenant to remove from the said premises shall •iot
be a license within this provision.
Sec. 24. Any person taking an unreasonable distress, shall answer
in damages to the party injured, to be recovered in an action
on the case.
Sec. 25. The person, or bailiff, distraining, shall either deliver
to the tenant, or leave at the mansion house, or if there be none, at
some public place on the premises, written notice of the property
distrained and the cause of the distress.
Sec. 26. If the property distrained be not replevied within five
days after the day of such notice, the sheriff, or any constable f0ru
the county, or place, where the distress is taken, shall, upon appli
cation, summon two judicious and impartial free holders of said
county, who, being first sworn or afiirmed by the officer summon
ing them, shall appraise the said property at its true value in
money, according to the best of their skill and judgment, and shall
certify their appraisement, with the date, under their hands.
Sec. 27. If the rent be not of money, the said sheriff, or constable,
sh ill also summon the said appraisers and another judicious
and impartial freeholder of the county, to determine the value of
said rent in money; and shall administer to them respectively an
oath, or affirmation, to inquire diligently concerning the true value
in money of the rent, for which the distress was taken, in arrear at
the time of distraining, and faithfully determine the same. Upon
such inquiry the freeholders shall afford reasonable opportunity to
the parties to be heard, and they shall severally have power to ad
minister an oath, or affirmation, to witnesses.
The said freeholders, or any two of them agreeing, shall certify
under their hands the value of the rent in arrear, according to the
following form :
County, ss. Upon a distress for rent, on the demand of
, against we, the freeholders, summoned to
determine the value of said rent in money, upon our oath and affir
mation respectively say, that, at the time of taking said distress,
there was rent in arrear from the said , to the said
, to the value of .
Witness our hands the day of , A. D. 18—.
The value, so certified, shall not be questioned, except upon re
plevin of the goods distrained.
No further certificate, either of the summoning, or the swearing,
or affirming, of the freeholders shall be necessary. If all the free
holders be sworn, or all affirmed, the certificate shall be adapted to
the case, by omitting the words " and affirmation." or the words
" oath and."
Sec. 28. The person, or bailiff, making a distress, may suffer the
property distrained to remain at large upon the premises, or may
impound the same either on the said premises, or in any other con
venient place in the same county.
Sec. 29. A distress shall not be removed from the county
wherein it is taken ; except, that if the premises lie in different
counties, a distress taken on any part thereof may be carried to the
mansion-house, or other most public place thereon, which shall, for
all purposes, be deemed to be the place of the taking ; and grain, or
other produce, growing on any part of such premises, shall be sub
ject to be appraised by freeholders, and to be sold by the sheriff, or
constable, and to be replevied by a writ of replevin directed to the
sheriff, or coroner, all of the county where the mansion-house, or
other most public place on said premises is situate, in the same
manner as if every part of the premises was in said county.
Sec. 30. The person on whose demand a distress is made, shall
have a special property in the things distrained until replevin, or
sale thereof, so that he may take the same, wherever found, and re
cover damages for carrying away, or injuring them.
Sec. 31. If any pound breach, or rescous, be made of property
distrained, the party injured shall, in a special action on the case, re
cover double damages and costs against the persons making such
pound breach, or rescous, or any of them, or against the owner of
the property, if it have come to his possession, or use.
Sec. 32. Alter the expiration of six days from the day of ap-D
.. t- i i i • -l i i • r
praising property distrained and not replevied, the sheriff, or any
constable of the county, or place, where the distress is taken, shall,
upon application, sell the same, or so much thereof as may be nec
essary to satisfy the rent and all costs, at public vendue, to the high
est and best bidder, or bidders, first giving at least six days' notice
of said sale by advertisements posted in at least five public places in
the county.
Sec. 33. Any surplus of the proceeds of such sale, after satisfying
the rent and costs, shall, without delay, be refunded to the owner
of the property, or otherwise applied according to law.
Sec. 34. If, through mistake, or other cause, a sufficient distress
be not taken, distress may be made for the balance of the rent, in
the same manner as for the entire sum.
Sec. 35. It shall not be an objection to any officer acting in any
of the premises, that he, as bailiff, made the distress.
Sec. 36. In case of the property distained, remaining, or being
impounded on the premises, the distrainer and every other person
shall have right to go upon said premises to view, appraise, or purchase
said property, or to take the same when purchased ; and if
grain, or other produce in the ground, be sold, the purchaser shall
have right to do all acts requisite for saving, cultivating, gathering
and taking the same.
Sec. 37. If any distress and sale be made for rent demanded
when no rent is in arrear, the person, upon whose demand such
distress is made, or his executors, or administrators, shall pay to the
owner of the property so distrained and sold, or his executors, or ad
ministrators, double the value of said property, to be recovered,
with costs, in an action of debt, in which a less sum than that de-R
manded may be recovered.
Sec. 38. When a distress is taken for rent justly due, no subsequent
irregularity shall make it a trespass, or vitiate it ; but the
party injured by such irregularity, may recover the damages sus
tained on occasion thereof, and no more, in a special action on the
case ; unless sufficient amends shall have been tendered before action
brought, in which case there shall be no recovery.
Sec. 39. The levy of process of execution, attachment, or sequestration, upon goods and chattels, shall not prevent such goods and
chattels from being taken and sold as a distress for rent.
Sec. 40. The landlord, or person making such distress, shall, at
least six days before sale of the goods and chattels distrained, give
written notice of such distress, and the time and place of such sale,
to the plaintifff or one of the plaintifffs, if several, in every such pro
cess, or his attorney, (if such plaintifff or attorney reside in the
county), or he shall forfeit the benefit of the foregoing section.
Sec. 41. Such distress shall not impair the levy, nor obstruct the
authority of the officer to sell the goods and chattels by virtue of
the process at any time before sale thereof pursuant to the dis
tress ; and such distress, or a sale pursuant to it, shall not vary the
rights of the parties in respect to the application of the proceeds of
the goods levied on, so as to give to the demand for rent any addi
tional preference over the other process.
Sec. 42. No distress shall remain in force more than sixty days
from the time of making it. If the property distrained be not sold
within the said sixty days, it shall, at the expiration of that period,
be discharged from the distress.
Sec. 43. A distress without a sale, shall not satisfy the rent for
which such distress was taken ; but a second distress shall not be
taken for the said rent.
Sec. 44. In no case shall a distress be taken for rent after the ex
piration of two years from its becoming in arrear.
Sec. 45. An executor, or administrator, shall not distrain for
rent in arrear to the testator, or intestate, after the expiration of
six months from the death of the testator, or intestate ; and any
other person entitled to the rent of premises, but having no estate
therein, shall not distrain for said rent after the expiration of six
months from the time of the same becoming in arrear.
REPLEVIN OF GOODS DISTRAINED.
Sec. 46. Before service of any writ of replevin for goods dis
trained, the plaintifff, or some substantial person for him, shall, with
sufficient surety, enter into bond to the officer to whom the writ is
directed, in a penalty double the value of said property, (to be esti
mated by the officer serving the writ, or if either party so requests,
to be appraised by two judicious persons summoned and sworn, or
affirmed by such officer), with condition according to the following
form :
The condition of the above written obligation is such, that if
, at whose suit against , a writ of replevin has
been issued out of the Superior Court of the State of Delaware, for
county, returnable to term next, or his executors,
or administrators, shall prosecute said suit with effect, and shall
fully and without delay satisfy any judgment which shall be given
against the said , or his executors, or administrators,
in the said suit, then the said obligation shall be void.
Sec. 47. The defendant in the replevin may avow, or make cog
nizance generally for rent in arrear, stating to whom, for what prem
ises, and for what time, without other particulars. Such avowry,
or cognizance, may be entered upon the record by way of sugges
tion, if in consequence of the plaintifff's being non-suit or judgment
being given on demurrer, or for other cause, it cannot be entered in
the regular course of the pleadings.
Sec. 48. The jury upon trial of the action, shall find the sum due
for rent in arrear. After issue joined, the plaintifff becoming non-JJ
suit shall not prevent the trial by jury.
Sec. 49. If there be judgment of nonsuit, or upon demurrer, or
otherwise, without trial by jury, the sum due for the rent in arrear
may be found either by a jury at bar, or upon a writ of inquiry, ors
otherwise, as the court may order ; or the same may be ascertained,
with or without avowry, or cognizance, as the parties shall agree.
Sec. 50. Judgment shall be given for the defendant for any sum
found, or ascertained, to be due for rent in arrear,' as debt, with
costs of suit ; and like execution shall be had, as on judgments for
debt.
Sec. 51. If judgment be given for the defendant, or his executors,
or administrators, the officer, to whom the bond was taken
upon the service of the writ, shall, on request, assign the same,
under his hand and seal, in the presence of at least one credible
witness, to the person on whose demand the distress was made, or
his executors, or administrators. The assignee may sue on the bond
in his own name.
ATTACHMENT FOB RENT.
Sec. 52. Upon affidavit made by a landlord, or any credible
person for him, and filed in the office of the prothonotary, [or any
justice of the peace,] of the county wherein the demised premises
are situated, stating the rent which his tenant is to pay, or render,
and when it will be due, and that he does on good grounds believe
that the tenant intends to remove his effects from the county, or
otherwise dispose of the same, and will so remove or dispose of the
same before the rent becomes due, so as to defeat a distress for said
rent, a writ of attachment shall be issued out of said superior court,
returnable to the next term thereof, directed to the sheriff of the
county, [or out of the office of any justice of the peace of the county,
directed to any constable thereof, returnable forthwith] against the
goods and chattels, rights and credits of such tenant and for sum
moning the garnishees.
Sec. 53. If the tenant shall give to the landlord bond with sufficient
surety, to be approved by the officer serving the writ, before
the return thereof, or by the court at t he term of the return, [or by
the justice of th" peace, when the same shall be returned to his
office] to pay the rent when due, with the costs of the attachment,
the goods and garnishees shall be discharged.
Sec. 54. If bond, as required by the foregoing section,be notgiven,
the court, [or justice of the peace,] shall make an order for the sale
of the goods and chattels attached, or so much thereof as shall be
necessary to pay said rent with the costs, and shall render judgment
against every garnishee, summoned upon the attachment, on his
answer confessing goods, money, rights, or credits in his hands, or
upon the verdict of a jury against him, if required to plead, as in
other proceedings by attachment.
Sec. 55. If the tenant deny the demand of rent, the court [or
the justice of the peace] whether he have given bond as aforesaid
or not, shall direct an issue to be tried by a jury at the bar of the
court, [or by a reference to three judicious and impartial citizens
before the justice of the peace, one of whom shall be chosen by
the justice aforesaid, and the other two, one each, by the plaintifff
and defendant] for ascertaining whether there be a just demand of
rent and the amount thereof. The verdict upon such issue, unless
set aside by the court [or justice of the peace] shall be conclusive.
Sec. 56. In respect to costs and touching the premises generally,
the court [or justice of the peace] may exercise equitable powers;
and if it shall consider that there was not sufficient ground for the
attachment, the landlord shall pay the costs.
Sec. 57. The residue of the goods, or money, after satisfying the
rent and costs, shall be restored, or paid, to the tenant without de
lay, or otherwise applied according to law.
Sec. 58. If a landlord, or any credible person for him shall, in
manner provided in Section 52, make oath, or affirmation, stating
the rent which his tenant is to pay, or render, and when it will be
due, and that he does, on good grounds, believe that the tenant in
tends to leave the State, and will depart from the same before the
rent will become due, and that there are not goods and chattels,
rights and credits of said tenant that can be attached, sufficient to
secure said rent, and that said tenant does not intend to make pro
vision for the payment of the rent, proceedings shall be had against
the said tenant according to Section 14 of Chapter 103.
Sec. 59. The foregoing provisions respecting attachment for
rent, shall not extend to more than one year's rent.
preference of rent in cases of execution.
Sec. 60. If goods and chattels of a tenant being upon premises
held by him by demise under a rent of money, be seized by virtue
of any process of execution, attachment, or sequestration, the said
goods and chattels shall be liable for one year's rent of said prem
ises, in arrear, or growing due, at the time of said seizure, in pref
erence to such process ; accordingly the landlord shall be paid such
rent (not exceeding one year's rent) out of the proceeds of the sale
of such goods and chattels before anything shall be applicable to
such process.
Sec. 61. If the landlord before the seizure of the goods and chat
tels of his tenant by virtue of such process as aforesaid, have dis
trained such goods and chatties for rent in arrear, such distress, or
the levying of the rent in arrear under it, shall not preclude him
from the preference given by the foregoing section.
Sec. 62. If the grain, or other produce, growing or being upon
premises held by a tenant by demise under a rent of a quantity, or
share, of grain or other produce, be seized by virtue of any process
of execution, attachment, or sequestration, such grain, or produce,
shall be liable for the year's rent proper to be rendered thereout in
preference to such process ; that is to say, the Indian corn shall be
liable for the quantity, or share, of Indian corn to be rendered as
rent, the wheat shall be liable for the quantity, or share, of wheat
to be rendered as rent, and so of the other produce; this preference
extending only to the rent for one year.
Such grain, or produce, if sold in pursuance of being so seized,
shall be sold subject to the rent, and the purchaser shall be liable
for said rent and the delivery thereof according to the tenent's con
tract, and for the proper cultivation and care of the crop.
Sec. 63. Grain, or produce, sold as aforesaid, may be distrained
for the rent proper to be rendered thereout, when due, in the same
manner as if it had not been sold.
Sec. 64. It shall not be lawful to remove grain, or produce, sold
as aforesaid, from the demised premises, without either paying the
rent proper to be rendered thereout or giving or tendering to the
landlord, or person entitled to said rent, good security to pay the
same when due.
Sec. 65. In case of a removal contrary to the foregoing section,
the landlord, or person entitled to rent, may immediately follow
and distrain the grain, or produce, removed, and may proceed in
the same manner as if the rent had been in arrear at the time of re
moval.
Sec. 66. The sheriff, or other officer, who shall sell goods and
chattles of a tenant upon process of execution, attachment, or
sequestration, shall, at least ten days before such sale, give written
notice of the time and place thereof to the landlord, if residing in
the county, and if not, to any known agent of the landlord in the
county.
OF ATTACHING RENT.
Sec. 67. Rent in arrear, or growing due, may be attached. If
the rent attached be not due at the return of the attachment, theat
court may render judgment upon such terms, and make such order,
as shall be deemed proper to secure the parties and carry the at
tachment into effect.
Sec. 68. After attachment served, distress may be made for theM
rent attached if in arrear, unless the tenant will pay it to the sheriff
to be paid into court. In case of such distress, or of a distress made
before service of the attachment, the attachment shall not prevent
proceeding upon the distress ; but if the distress proceed to sale, the
officer selling shall pay the money into court, where the attachment
is depending, to abide the order of the court.
Sec. 69. If goods, so distrained, be replevied, the court, in which
the attachment is, may order any assignment of the interest in the
action of replevin, and of the replevin bond, that may be necessary
to give effect to the attachment, and may enforce obedience to such
order by imprisonment. Such order, in respect to the interest in
the action, shall have the effect of an assignment ; and any person
to whom said bond shall be assigned, pursuant to such order, may
sue thereon in his own name.
OTHER MATTERS.
Sec. 70. Any tax laid upon lands, or tenements, according to
law, which shall be paid by or levied from the tenant of such lands,
or tenements, or a person occupying and having charge of the same,
shall be a set-off against the rent or other demand of the owner for
the use, or profits, of such premises ; and if there be not rent, or
other demand sufficient to cover the sum so paid, or levied, the
tenant, or other person, shall have right to demand and recover the
same from the owner, with costs. This provision shall not affect
any contract between tre landlord and his tenant.
Sec. 71. If any person shall carry from demised premises, of
the quantity of five acres or more, any hay (other than sait hay),
straw, corn-husks, or manure, without the consent of the owner of
the premises, he shall forfeit and pay to such owner double the
value of such hay, straw, corn-husks, or manure, with costs.
Sec. 72. If a tenant on whom a declaration in ejectment is
served, shall not give notice thereof to his landlord, or the agent of
such landlord, without delay, he shall forfeit and pay to such land
lord the value of two year's full rent of the premises, to be re
covered with costs by action of debt.
Section 1. Any person who is imprisoned for debt, damages or
costs, by virtue of any process, or commitment, in a civil action,
(except process or commitment of a Court of Chancery), having resided
in this State for one year next preceding such imprisonment,
may obtain his discharge from such imprisonment upon petition tod
the Superior Court of the county wherein he is imprisoned, and,
compliance with the provisions hereinafter contained.
Sec. 2. Such petition shall set forth the imprisonment and the
cause thereof, the insolvency of the petitioner, a full and true ac
count of all his real and personal estate, debts, credits, rights,
money, and effects whatsoever, with the sums and dates of all his
bonds, notes, or other securities, and a true list, according to the
best of his knowledge and belief, of all his creditors, with the sums
due to them respectively. If the petitioner shall at any time have
given, conveyed, assigned, settled, or disposed of money, stock, or
property of any kind, upon trust, it shall be mentioned.
Sec. 3. Such petition being preferred, the court shall award prO~
cess for summoning the creditors of the petitioner to appear in said
court, on some certain day, and show cause, if any they have, why
he should not be discharged from imprisonment upon assigning his
property for the benefit of his creditors. Service of such summons
upon the agent, or attorney, of a creditor not residing in the State,
shall be a valid service as to such creditor. And service of a sum
mons upon one of several parties, joint plaintifffs, or joint creditors,
shall be sufficient so far as concerns a partnership, or joint debt.
Sec. 4. Proof of the service of a summons, under the foregoing
section, shall be by the affidavit of the person serving the same,
written upon the summons.
An appearance entered, either personally or by attorney, shall be
as effectual as proof of the service of the summons.
Sec. 5. Any creditor, or creditors, in any sum not less than fifty
dollars, the amount of which shall be proved by affidavit, may file
an allegation of fraud against the petitioner, specifying the supposed
fraudulent transactions, to which allegation the petitioner may plead;
aud thereupon the same shall be tried by jury at the same term to
which the petition is preferred.
Sec. 6. If an allegation of fraud be not filed, or being filed shall
be withdrawn, the court shall hear what may be alleged and proved
for or against granting the prayer of the petition.
Sec. 7. Interrogatories may be proposed by any creditor to the
petitioner, touching the causes of his insolvency, the ownership, dis
posal and state of any property, the time of contracting any debt,
or of executing any security, deed, or other instrument, and the
consideration thereof, and any other matter which the court may
deem a proper subject of such inquiry ; which interrogatories the
petitioner shall, upon the requirement of any creditor, fully and dis
tinctly answer upon oath, or affirmation ; and his answers, being
reduced to writing, shall be signed by him.
Sec. 8. Upon sufficient cause shown, the court may order the
petitioner to produce any money in his possession or control, or any
deeds, bonds, notes, books of account, or other writings relating to
his estate, and remand him until such order is complied with.
Sec. 9. If it shall appear to the court that the petitioner has
fraudulently secreted, transferred, disposed of, or removed any goods,
chattels, rights, credits, money, or other property, or has been guilty
of deception, or fraud, in contracting any debt, or has not fully and
truly answered the interrogatories proposed, or has committed any
fraud by which his creditors may be injured, the petition may be
dismissed and the petitioner remanded.
Sec. 10. If any creditor shall insist, and the court shall be of
opinion that the petitioner ought to make satisfaction to his credi
tors by servitude, he shall be remanded unless he shall, in writing
under his hand indorsed on his petition, declare his consent to be
adjudged to serve his creditors for such wages as the court may
allow, to satisfy the debts due from him. But this consent shall
not be required of a female, or white man.*
Sec. 11. If the petitioner shall so consent to serve his creditors,
the court, before pronouncing the order for his discharge, shall ad
judge him to serve his creditors for a certain term, not exceedins;
seven years, and for certain monthly wages, to be determined by
the court, in order to satisfy the debts due from him to them re
spectively, or such balance thereof as may remain unpaid after the
proper application of his estate; and the ceditors shall have, re
spectively, all the power of master, or mistress, over the petitioner,
to demand and have his services for the purposes aforesaid.
The court may direct that a certain portion of the wages be ap
plied monthly to the support of the petitioner's family, and the bal
ance thereof towards the debts aforesaid.
Sec. 12. The rights of creditors to the services of a person, ad
judged as aforesaid, shall stand in priority, as follows, viz :
First: Creditors by judgments and by recognizances; and these
among themselves shall have priority according to the dates of the
judgments and recognizances respectively.
Second: Creditors by obligations and notes and instruments
under seal, or only under hand ; and these among themselves- shall
have priority according to the dates of their causes of action re
spectively :
Third : All other creditors, standing in priority to each other ac
cording to the amount of their respective demands, the larger being
preferred to the smaller.
But any creditor, having had such person in his service for three
days without adverse claim, shall continue to hold him until his
debt is satisfied according to the terms of the adjudication, without
responsibility to any other creditor.
A person adjudged shall not controvert the right of any creditor
to his immediate service, on the grounds of the prior right of any
other creditor.
Sec. 13. If it shall appear to the court that there is no sufficient
cause for remanding the petitioner, it shall order that he be discharged from imprisonment, he first fulfilling the requirements of
the two sections next following. ,
Sec. 14. Before an order for his discharge, the petitioner shall
take an oath or affirmation according to the following form, the
same being first distinctly read to him, that is to say :
I , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that the account set
forth in my petition to be discharged from imprisonment, is a full
and true account of all my real and personal estate, legal and equit
able, in possession, reversion and remainder and of every nature and
description, including all my debts, credits, rights, money and effects
whatsoever ; and that I have not, at any time, given, conveyed, as
signed, settled, disposed of, or delivered any lands, goods, money,
stock, securities or other real or personal estate, so as to expect any
benefit or advantage therefrom, or upon any trust otherwise than as
mentioned in said petition ; that I have not contracted any debt,
nor executed any bond, or security, nor done any other act, or
thing, to defraud my creditors : and that I have not intentionally,
or knowingly, omitted from the list set forth in my petition any
one of my creditors, nor misstated any debt due from me ; so help
me God. (Or so I do solemnly affirm.)
Sec. 15. The petitioner shall also, before an order for his discharge,
execute a deed of assignment, to a trustee, or trustees appointed by the court. Such deed shall be indorsed upon, or an
nexed to the petition, and shall be according to the following from,
viz :
I , do grant and assign to , their heirs
and assigns, as joint tenants, upon trust for all my creditors, all my
lands, tenements, hereditaments, goods, chattels, rights, credits, and
real and personal estate, of every nature and description, whereso
ever situate, or being.
Witness my hand and seal the day of , A. D. 18 — .
m
Signed, sealed and delivered, )
in open court, before /
If one trustee only be appointed, the deed may be adapted to the
case.
Sec. 16. Any person imprisoned for the non-performauce of any
decree for the payment of money, or costs, by virtue of attachment,
or other process, issued out of the Court of Chancery, having re
sided within the State for one year next before his imprisonment,
may prefer to the Court of Chancery, held in the county wherein
he is imprisoned, a petition of the same purport described in the
second section of this chapter ; and thereupon the said Court of
Chancery shall have and exercise jurisdiction over the subject of
such petition, in the same manner and by like proceedings, as is
hereinbefore provided in the case of a petition to the Superior
Court, except as it regards the directing of an issue.
Sec. 17. Every petition, and all proceedings, orders and ad
judications in cases of insolvency, shall be recorded by the prothonotary,
or register in chancery, in suitable books kept for the pur
pose ; and to each book a correct alphabetical index shall be kept.
PROCEEDINGS UNDER ASSIGNMENT.
Sec. 18. A deed of assignment, executed in pursuance of the
fifteenth section, shall be deemed to be a record of the court in
which it is executed ; and a certified copy thereof shall be com
petent evidence.
Sec. 1 9. Such assignment shall vest in the trustee, or trustees,
therein named, all the property and estate of the petitioner at the
time of executing the same, real and personal, legal and equitable,
and of every nature and description, as well rights, whether real or
personal, credits and things in action, as property in possession.
Sec. 20. The said trustee, or trustees, shall take possession of all
said property and estate, except wearing apparel and the necessary
bedding of the petitioner and his family, and the tools, or imple
ments, of his trade or calling, not exceeding in value in the whole,
fifty dollars; which articles, and the value thereof, shall be ascer
tained by two judicious and impartial citizens of the county wherein
the petitioner resides, to be appointed and sworn, or affirmed, to the
faithful performance of said duty by a justice of the peace of the
county. The articles, so ascertained, shall be exempt from any ex
ecution, or legal process, against the petitioner, except distress for
rent and execution in a criminal case.
Sec. 21. If the petitioner be a tenant holding any lands, or tene
ments, under rent, his goods and chattels, being on the demised
premises at the time of executing the said assignment, shall be lia
ble for the rent of said premises for the current, or preceding year,
if such rent be not paid, but for one year only ; and the landlord
may require that such rent be paid before the removal of the goods,
or chattels, from the demised premises.
Sec. 22. The said trustee, or trustees, or the survivors or sursurvivor
of them, or the executors, or administrators, of such trus
tee, or survivor, shall collect, recover and reduce into possession all
the rights, whether real or personal, credits and things in action of
the petitioner ; and for that purpose may in his or their own name
or name';, institute and prosecute to judgment and execution any
actions real, personal, or mixed; and shall also convert into money
all the property and estate assigned, and for that purpose shall have
full power to sell, dispose of and convey the same, in parcels or
otherwise, as may be deemed expedient.
Sec. 23. No suit, or proceeding, of the petitioner, at law, or in
equity, shall be abated by the assignment aforesaid ; but such suit,
or proceeding, may be continued, and execution may be issued on
any judgment recovered by the petitioner, as if no such deed of as
signment had been executed ; but such suit, proceeding, or execu
tion, shall be for the use, or benefit, of said trustee, or trustees, or
the survivors, or survivor, of them, or the executors, or adminis
trators, of such trustee, or survivor.
Sec. 24. No release, acquittance, or receipt, made by the petitioner
after executing such deed of assignment, of any debt, demand, right, action, suit, or cause of action, existing at or before
the time of executing said deed, shall be of any force or effect.
Sec. 25. The net proceeds of the petitioner's estate, after deduct,.r
. , r l i , .
ing just expenses ot executing the trust and a reasonable commission
to the trustees, shall be applied towards payment of such de-a
mands against the petitioner as shall be exhibited to the trustees
within one year after the date of the assignment, and no others;
and if said proceeds be insufficient to pay the whole amount of the
demands, they shall be opportioned pro rata. Any overplus, shall
be returned to the petitioner, his heirs, executors, or administrators.
Sec. 26. A demand existing at the time of executing the deed
of assignment, but payable at a future day (subject to the properc
discount if payable without interest), shall be admitted in the dis
tribution of the petitioner's estate.
Sec. 27. Controversies arising in the course of the execution of
the trust respecting any disputed demands, or claims, may be referred,
compromised, or settled, as may be deemed expedient.
Sec. 28. The court may, in its discretion, require the trustee, or
trustees, to give bond with security to the State for the faithful execution of the trust. It may, in its discretion, remove the trustee,
or trustees, and compel an assignment of the trust estate to others
appointed in their stead. It may order an inventory and appraisement
of the trust estate and effects to be made and returned to the
court, and may require accounts, touching the execution of the trust,
to be rendered, and shall adjust and settle such accounts.
Any order by the court in the premises, may be enforced by at
tachment and imprisonment.
EFFECT OF DISCHARGE.
Sec. 29. A person discharged from imprisonment, pursuant to
tQe foregoing provisions, shall not be afterward arrested, nor im
prisoned, for any debt, or demand, contracted or existing before
such discharge, except debts and demands of the United States, and
also of persons who shall not have been summoned, nor appeared.
Such discharge shall have no further effect ; and if any debt, or de
mand, due or existing, at the time of such discharge, against the
petitioner, shall not be fully satisfied out of the estate and property
assigned, because of the insufficiency thereof, such debt, or any bal
ance thereof remaining, after a proper application of the estate and
property assigned, may be recovered and levied out of any proper
ty, or'estate, which the petitioner may acquire, or become entitled
to, after the date of the assignment, excepting that hereinbefore ex
empted from execution ; subject only to the restriction of the next
following section in the case of persons adjudged to serve their
creditors.
Sec. 30. If the petitioner shall have been adjudged to serve his
creditors for the satisfaction of their respective debts, or of a balance
thereof after the application of the petitioner's estate, his creditors
shall have no other remedy for the recovery of such debts, or bal
ance, except in the cases following, that is to say ; if the petitioner,
being so adjudged as aforesaid, refuse to serve any creditor pursuant
to the adjudication ; or if any creditor, shall, within sixty days after
the adjudication, and without having had the service of the peti
tioner, cause his refusal of such service to be entered upon the re
cord of the adjudication ; in either of said cases the creditor shall
have the same remedies for the recovery of his debt, or balance
thereof as aforesaid, as if the petitioner had not been adjudged to
serve his creditors.
The prothonotary, or register in chancery, in whose office the re
cord shall be, upon application of the creditor, shall enter his refusal
as aforesaid, and the same shall be signed by the creditor. Such
entry shall vacate all rights of the creditor to demand service pur
suant to the adjudication.
Sec. -31. Any person imprisoned for debt, or damages, or costs,
of a civil suit, or non-performance of a decree for the payment of
Dv virtue of original, execution, or other process, or com
mitment, may prefer to the Superior Court of the county wherein
he is imprisoned, or to any judge residing in the county in vacation,
a petition stating the imprisonment and the cause thereof, and the
inability of the petitioner to maintain himself, or his family, and
praying for relief.
Sec. 32. If, upon the hearing of such petition and reasonable
notice in writing of the time and place thereof to the party at whose
suit the petitioner is imprisoned, or his attorney, or agent, if there'
be such party, attorney, or agent, within the county, it shall ap
pear that there is ground to apprehend that the petitioner, or his
family, in consequence of his imprisonment, will be chargeable to
the county, the said court, or judge, shall order that the person at
whose suit the petitioner is imprisoned, shall, with sufficient surety
enter into a recognizance to the State in the penal sum of two hun
dred and fifty dollars, with condition to be void if the recognizor,
his heirs, executors, or administrators, shall keep the said county
harmless and indemnified of and from all damages and charges in
consequence of the imprisonment of the petitioner either for main
tenance, or through the sickness of the petitioner, or his family ;
such order with the petition shall be filed in the office of the pro
thonotary in the county wherein the petitioner is imprisoned.
If notice of such hearing, as aforesaid, cannot be given, by reasou of the fact that the party, at whose suit the petitioner is impris
oned, resides out of the county, and has no attorney, or agent therein,
the same proceedings shall be had as if notice had been duly served.
Sec. 33. The prothonotary shall have authority to approve the
surety and to take the recognizance directed by such order; which
recognizance shall be joint and several.
Sec. 34. If such order be not complied with by the person on
whom it is made (or by some one of them if there be several)
within ten days after the same shall be made, the prothonotary
shall certify the said order and the failure to comply therewith to
the sheriff, or jailer, of the county ; and thereupon the petitioner
shall be discharged from his imprisonment.
Sec. 35. The principal in any recognizance entered into under
the foregoing provisions, may, at any time, cause an entry to be
made upon the recognizance, or the record thereof, and signet! by
him, to the effect that he is unwilling to continue liable touching
any further imprisonment of the person upon whose petition the
said order was made.
The prothonotary shall forthwith certify the substance of such
order, recognizance and entry to the sheriff, or jailer, of the county;
and the petitioner shall thereupon be discharged from imprisonment
at the suit of the party causing such entry to be made.
Such entry shall in no manner impair the said recognizance, nor
have any other effect than to discharge the petitioner from further
imprisonment at the suit of the party causing it to be made.
[But any person imprisoned as aforesaid may prefer a petition to
the Superior Court in term time, or to any judge thereof in vacation,
setting forth that he is willing and able to give to the said creditor
good and sufficient security for the payment of the said debt or
damages or costs as aforesaid, within a reasonable time ; and if,
upon the hearing of the said petition, and reasonable notice in
writing of the time and place thereof to the party at whose suit the
petitioner is imprisoned, or his attorney, or agent, if there be
such party, attorney, or agent within the county, it shall
appear that the petitioner is able to give such security, the
said court, or judge thereof in vacation, shall proceed to order
security to be given and taken in such form, and for the payment
of the said debt or damages and costs, in such time and manner as
to the said court or judge shall seem meet and proper in the ease,
and on such security being given and approved by the said court or
judge, an order shall be made for the immediate discharge of the
petitioner from said imprisonment.]
Sec. 36. A person discharged from imprisonment pursuant to
either of the two next foregoing sections, shall not be again arrested
upon the same process ; but such imprisonment and discharge shall
have no other effect : and no judgment, debt, or demand, shall be
thereby extinguished, or invalidated.
Sec. 37. The appearance of any person who shall be discharged
from imprisonment according to this chapter, may be entered iD
any suit, or action, from process in which such person shall be so
discharged ; and such suit, or action, may be proceeded in on the
ground of such appearance.
Sec 38. Any proceeding, or order, under this chapter, shall not
discharge any person imprisoned by the authority of the United
States from such imprisonment, and shall not discharge any person
from imprisonment for any other cause than that to which such
proceedings, or order, relates ; but such person, notwithstanding
such proceeding, or order, shall be detained for such other cause,
according to the nature and effect thereof.
Sec. 39. The foregoing provisions for the discharge of a person
imprisoned on civil process, upon failure of the party at whose suit
such person is imprisoned to indemnify the county as aforesaid,
shall not apply to the case of a prisoner remanded by the court upon
the trial of allegations of fraud, or for refusing his consent to serve
his creditor; nor to the case of a white citizen of this State im
prisoned by virtue of a capias ad satisfaciendum, or for the non
performance of a decree for the payment of money, upon an affida
vit of fraud ; nor to the case of any person whatsoever imprisoned
by virtue of civil process, whether original, or final, or whether
issuing out of a court of law, or equity, if the plaintifff in such pro
cess shall, within five days after the imprisonment of such person,
file in the office of the prothonotary, or register in chancery, issuing
the process, an affidavit of fraud against the person so imprisoned,
in the same form as by law is required to be filed before the issuing
of a capias ad satisfaciendum against a white citizen of this State.
A person imprisoned as aforesaid, against whom such affidavit of
fraud shall be filed within five days after his imprisonment, as
above provided, shall have the same benefit of a hearing of the
specifications of fraud in such affidavit set forth before a judge, and
upon like proceedings, as in the case of an affidavit of fraud filed
before the issuing of a capias ad satisfaciendum.
Sec. 40. No proceeding under this chapter shall in any way impair the lien of any mortgage, judgment, recognizance, execution,
nor any other lien, nor the liability of one who, as surety, or joint
debtor, or otherwise, shall be liable for a debt, or demand, existing
against the person to whom such proceeding relates.
Sec. 41. If any person, to whom an oath, or affirmation, shall be
administered under this chapter, shall willfully and falsely swear,
or affirm, in any matter, such person so offending, shall be deemed
guilty of the crime of willful and corrupt perjury, and shall also
forfeit all benefit under this chapter, and shall not be permitted to
plead, or insist upon the same, or to avail himself thereof in any
manner whatever.
Sec. 42. In any action against any person for any thing done
pursuant to this chapter, this chapter, with the matter of justinca-ge
tion under it, may be given in evidence under the general issue.
CHAPTER 187, Vol. 15, Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT TO REQUIRE TRUSTEES IN VOLUNTARY ASSIGNMENT FOR
THE BENEFIT OF CREDITORS, TO GIVE BOND WITH SECURITY
FOR THE FAITHFUL EXECUTION OF THE TRUST, AND FOR OTHER
PURPOSES.
Section I . That in every case in which any person shall make a voluntary assignment
of his or her estate, real or personal, or of any part thereof to any other person or persons in trust for his creditors or some of them, it shall be the duty of the assignee o
assignees, within thirty days after the execution thereof, to file in the office of registe
in chancery of the county in which the real and personal estate of the assignor is situ
ate, an inventory or schedule of the estate or effect (s) so assigned, accompanied wit
an affidavit by such assignees, that the same is a full and complete inventory of al
>uch estate and effects, so far as the same has come to their knowledge.
Sec. 2. The chancellor shall appoint two disinterested and competent persons t
appraise the estate so assigned, who shall, after being duly sworn or affirmed by some
person having authority to administer oaths, to perform their duties with fidelity
forthwith proceed to make an appraisement of the estates and effects assigned, according to the best of their judgment, and having completed the same, shall return the in
ventory and appraisement to the office of register in chancery of the county in which
the inventory of the assignee and the affidavit accompanying the same were filed. The
appraisers shall receive the same compensation as is now allowed by law to appraiser
of the estate of a decedent.
Sec. 3. The assignee or assignees aforesaid, shall, as soon as such inventory an
appraisement shall have been filed, give a bond or bonds with at least two sufficien
sureties, to be approved by the chancellor, in double the amount of the appraise
value of the estate so assigned. The bond so to be given, shall be taken in the nam
of the State of Delaware, and the condition thereof shall be as follows, to wit : Th
condition of this obligation is such, that if the above bounden
assignees of shall in all things comply with the provisions of this act,
and shall faithfully execute the trust confided to them, then the above obligation to be
void, otherwise to remain in full force and virtue. To the said bond there shall be
subjoined a warrant of attorney to confess judgment thereon, and the said bond and
warrant shall be joint and several, and such bond shall be filed in the office of the
register in chancery of the county in which the inventory and appraisement aforesaid
were filed, and shall inure to the use of all persons interested in the property assigned.
Sec. 4. Upon the application of any person interested, the chancellor may, at cham
bers, and as well in vacation as in term, direct said bond to be proceeded on if he
deems it necessary and proper for the protection of such interested party or parties.
Sec. 5. The assignee or assignees shall render an account of his or their trustee
ship, every year from the date of his or their bond, required to be given as aforesaid,
before the register in chancery of the proper county, until the trusteeship be closed and
a final account rendered and approved. If he or they fail to perform this duty, the
register in chancery may issue a citation to such assignee, requiring him to appear and
exhibit under oath or affirmation, the accounts of the trusts, within a certain time
to be named in such citation. Any person interested, may file exceptions to said ac
counts within one year from the date of the same, in the office of register in chancer;
in and for the proper county, to be heard, determined, and adjusted before the chan
cellor, either in term time, or vacation, as he may order or direct.
Sec. 6. The chancellor, upon cause being shown, may remove such assignee or
trustee, and compel an assignment of the trust estate to others appointed in their stead.
Any order by the chancellor in the premises, may be enforced by attachment and im
prisonment.
Sec. 7. That in voluntary assignment heretofore made, the assignee or trustee shall
render accounts of his trusteeship, according to the provisions of this act, and shall be
subject to removal by the chancellor upon cause being shown.
Section 1. No person shall make an entry into any lands, tenements,
or hereditaments, but within twenty years next after his
right, or title, to the same, first descended, or accrued.
Sec. 2. No person shall have, or maintain any writ of right, or
action, real, personal, or mixed, for, or make any prescription, or
claim, to, or in, any lands, tenements, or hereditaments, of the seiz
ing, or possession of him, his ancestor, or predecessor, and declare,
or allege, in any manner whatever, any further seizing of him, his
ancestor, or predecessor, but only an actual seizing of him, his an
cestor, or predecessor, of the premises sued for, or claimed, within
twenty years next before such writ, or action.
Sec. 3. If at any time when such right of entry upon, or action
for any lands or tenements shall first accrue, the person entitled to
such entry, or action, shall be an infant, or a married woman, insane, or imprisoned, such person, or any one claiming from, by, or
under him, may make the entry, or bring the action, at any time
within ten years after such disability shall be removed, notwith standing
the twenty years before limited in that behalf shall have
expired.
Sec. 4. If the person entitled to an entry, or action, die under
any of the disabilities aforesaid, any other person claiming from, by,
or under him, shall have the same benefit which the person first en
titled would have had, by living until the removal of the disability.
Sec. 1. No action shall be brought upon the official recognizance
B^ier^i or upon any administration bond, or upon any testamentary bond, against either the principal or sureties, after the ex
piration of six years from the date of such recognizance or bond.
Sec. 2. No action shall be brought upon any guardian bond,
against either the principal or sureties, after the expiration of three
years from the determination or ceasing of the guardianship.
^EC. 3. No action shall be brought upon any recognizance taken
in the Orphans' Court, with condition for the payment of the ap
praised value or purchase money of lands or tenements, against any
surety in such recognizance, or the heirs, terre-tenants, executors,
or administrators, of such surety, after the expiration of three
years from the time when the value, or money, mentioned in the
condition, or the hist installment thereof, (when it is payable by in
stallments) is due.
Sec. 4. No action shall be brought upon the official obligation
of any state treasurer, secretary of state, county treasurer, treasurer
of the poor, coroner, register of wills, recorder of deeds, prothonotary,
clerk of the peace, clerk of the Orphans' Court, [register in
chancery], collector, or constable, against either the principal, or
sureties, after the expiration of three years from the accruing of the
cause of such action.
Sec. 5. No action shall be brought upon the official obligation of
an escheator, against either the principal, or sureties, after seven
years from the expiration of his term of office.
Sec. 6. No action of trespass, no action of replevin, no action of
detinue, no action of debt not found upon a record or specialty, no
action of account, no action of assumpsit, and no action upon the
case shall be brought after the expiration of three years from the
accruing of the cause of such action ; subject however, to the provi
sions of the three next following sections.
Sec. 7. In the case of a mutual and running account between
parties, the limitation shall not begin to run while such account
continues open and current.
Sec. 8. When the cause of action arises from a promissory note,
bill of exchange, or an acknowledgment under the hand of the party
of a subsisting demand, the action may be commenced at any time
within six years from the accruing of such cause of action.
Sec. 9. When, after a recovery in ejectment, an action is brought
for mesne profits, if such action be commenced within six months
aftfr the judgment, or if there be a writ of error, within six months
after the affirmance of said judgment, or other determination of the
proceeding in error, the said action shall, so far as to avoid the in
termediate operation of the sixth section, be deemed a continuation
of the proceeding in ejectment ; and the plaintifff shall not be de
barred from recovering mesne profits for three years next preceding
the commencement of the ejectment.
Sec. 10. No action of waste shall be brought after the expiration
of three years from the committing of the waste.
Sec. 11. No action shall be brought upon any bond given to the
president, directors and company of any bank, or to any corporation, by any officer of such bank, or corporation, with condition for
his good behavior, or for the faithful discharge of the duties of his
station, or touching the execution of his office, against either the
principal, or sureties, after the expiration of two years from the accruing
of the cause of such action ; and no action shall be brought,
and no proceedings shall be had upon any such bond, or upon any
judgment thereon, against either the principal or sureties, for any
cause of action accruing after the expiration of six years from the
date of such bond.
The directors, or managers, of any bank, or corporation, are authorized
and enjoined to take from each officer thereof, required by
the charter or by-laws to give bond, a new bond as often as may be
deemed expedient, but at farthest every six years ; and so that the
date of the new bond shall not be more than six years posterior to
the date of the bond immediately preceding.
Sec. 12. No civil action for a forfeiture upon a penal statute,
whether at the suit of the party aggrieved, or of a common informer,
or of the State, or otherwise, shall be brought after the expiration
of one year from the accruing of the cause of such action.
Sec. 13. If a person entitled to any action comprehended within
either of the foregoing provisions, shall have been, at the time of the
accruing of the cause of such action, under disability of infancy,
coverture, or incompetency of mind, this chapter shall not be a bar
to such action during the continuance of such disability, nor until
the expiration of three years from the removal thereof.
Sec. 14. If at the time when a cause of action accrues against
any person, he shall be out of the State, the action may be commenced, within the time herein limited therefore, after such person
shall come into the State in such manner that, by reasonable dili
gence, he may be served with process ; and if after a cause of action
shall have accrued against any person, he shall depart from and re
side out of the State, the time of his absence until he shall have
returned into the State in manner aforesaid, shall not be taken as
any part of the time limited lor the commencement of the action.
Sec. 15. If in any action duly commenced within the time herein
limited therefore, the writ shall fail of a sufficient service or return
by any unavoidable accident, or by any default, or neglect, of the
officer to whom it is committed ; or if the writ shall be abated, or
the action otherwise avoided, or defeated, by the death of any party
thereto, or for any matter of form; or if after a verdict of the
plaintifff, the judgment shall be arrested ; or if a judgment
for the plaintifff be reversed on a writ of error ; a new action may
be commenced, for the same cause of action, at any time within one
year after the abatement or other determination of the original suit,
or after the reversal of the judgment therein.
If, in the original action, the benefit of this chapter be pleaded,
and a verdict upon such plea be found for the plaintifff, such verdict
shall be conclusive evidence that the original action was commenced
within the time limited therefore.
Sec. 16. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to any debt
alleged by way of set-off on the part of a defendant ; and the time
of limitation of such debt shall be computed in like manner as if
an action therefore had been commenced at the time when the plain
tiff's action commenced.
CHAPTER CXXIV.
LIMITATION OF APPEALS AND EXCEPTIONS.
Sec. i. Appeals from interlocutory decrees;
limitation.
2. But may be reviewed on final appeal.
3. Appeals from final decrees ; limita
tion
4. Saving to infants, &c.
Sec. 5. Defective records may be corrected.
6. Extend to equity cases in Superior
Court.
7. Limitations of exceptions to adminis
tration, accounts, &c.
8. Saving to infants, &c.
Section 1. No appeal from an interlocutory decree, or order, of
the chancellor, shall be received in the Court of Errors and Ap
peals, unless the petition, or assignment of causes of appeal with a
certified copy of the record an3 papers of the case, be filed in the
office of the clerk of the said court, on or before the first day of the
term of said court next after the entering of the said decree, or or
der. But the court may extend the time, if this limitation shall
not in any case allow sufficient time for copying the record and
papers.
Sec. 2. An omission to claim, or prosecute, an appeal from an in
terlocutory decree, or order, as aforesaid, shall not debar a party
from making any objection to such decree, or order, upon appeal
from the final decree.
Sec. 3. Xo appeal from a final decree of the chancellor shall be
received in the Court of Errors and Appeals, unless the petition, or
assignment of causes of appeal, with a certified copy of the record
and papers of the case, shall be filed in the office of the clerk thereof,
within two years after signing of said decree.
Sec. 4. The limitation of the foregoing section with respect to
any person under disability of infancy, coverture, or incompetency of
mind, at the time of signing a final decree, shall begin to run at the
ceasing of such disability and not from the time of signing said de
cree.
Sec. 5. No omission, or mistake, of the register in chancery in
making a copy of the record and papers of a case, shall affect an
appellant ; but it shall be sufficient to file, within the time limited,
a copy certified under the hand and seal of office of the register ;
and any defect may be corrected according to the course, or order, of
the Court of Errors and Appeals.
Sec. 6. The provisions of the foregoing sections shall extend to
appeals from the Superior Court in cases of equity jurisdiction; the
entering of a final decree in such case being substituted for the sign
ing of such decree.
Sec. 7. No exceptions to an account of an executor, administrator,
or guardian, settled by the register for the county, shall be received,
or filed, in the Orphans' Court, after the expiration of three years
from the settlement of said account.
Sec. 8. The limitation of the foregoing section, with respect to
any person under disability of infancy, coverture, or incompetency
of mind, at the time of the settlement of any such account, shall be
gin to run from the ceasing of such disability, and not from the
time of such settlement.

