Sec 1. Every writ used for the commencement of an action,
shall bear date on the day it was issued, and shall be returnable on the first day of the term next thereafter.
Sec 2. A writ of summons maybe served on the defendant
by stating the substance of it to him personally, or by leaving
a copy of it at his usual place of abode, in the presence of some
wrhite adult person, six days before the return thereof.
The officer serving a summons shall state in his return the
, _to .
time and manner of service.
SEC. 3. If the defendant in a writ of summons shall not ap1 1 i r i'iii 11J
pear at the return clay thereof, and it shall appear by the return
that he was duly summoned, it shall be lawful for the
plaintifff, having filed his declaration, to take judgment there
on for default of appearance, according to the rules and prac
tice of the court.
But if the defendant shall, at or before the next term after
such judgment, by affidavit deny notice, or knowledge, ofsucho
suit before the judgment was rendered, and shall allege that
there is a just or legal defense to the action, or some part there
of, such judgment shall be taken off and he shall be permitted
to appear ; any execution which may have been issued there
on to remain cautionary.
Sec. 4. In every case in which a writ of scire facias may by
law be issued, it shall be served and returned in the same
manner as is provided in case of an original summons ; and
judgment for default of appearance may betaken in like man
ner, unless it be otherwise specially provided.
SEC. 5. A writ of capias ad respondendum is served by ar
resting the defendant, but he shall be discharged upon giving
sufficient bail.
SEC. 6. It shall be lawful for any persons willing to become
parties to an amicable action, to enter into an agreement in
writing for that purpose, either personally or by their agents,
or attornies ; and on filing such agreement with the prothonotary,
he shall docket the suit, and from the time of such en
try the action shall be deemed to be depending in the same
manner as if the defendant had appeared to a summons issued
against him by the plaintifff.
Sec. 7. Action may be brought in the name of the State
against any officer for money received by, or legally charge
able to him, for fines, forfeitures, or fees, appertaining either
to the funds of the State, or to the school fund.
CHAPTER 192. Vol. 11. Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT MAKING ADDITIONAL PROVISION FOR THE SERVICE OF ORIGINAL
PROCESS.
•
Section i. That whenever suit shall be brought against any person or
persons not residing in this State, but doing business therein either by a
branch establishment or agency, it shall be sufficient service of a writ of sum
mons to leave a copy thereof with any agent, or at the usual place of busi
ness of such person or persons, or his or her, or their, agent ten days before
the return thereof.
Passed at Dover, February 10, 1855.
CHAPTER 270. Vol. 11. Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT IN RELATION TO THE TRIAL OF ISSUE OF FACT IN THE SUPERIOR
COURT.
Section I. That in all Civil Causes where matters of fact are at issue, if
the parties agree, such matters of fact shall be tried by the Court, and judgment
rendered upon their decision thereon, as in cases tried by a Jury under
the present practice.
Section i. That from and after the passage of this act, it shall not be
lawful, at the suit of any non-resident, to arrest and hold to bail on mesne
process anv person who raav be a non-resident of this State at the time of
F . J. r , - , , .
lssuing such process against such person or persons, for any debt contracted
without the limits of this State. If any such non-resident shall be so arrested, he may apply by petition in writing to any Judge of this State, setting
forth his residence and the State in which said debt was contracted, and it
shall be the duty of said Judge, on the production of satisfactory proof that
the plaintifff was a non-resident at the time of issuing the process, and also
that the petitioner is a non-resident of this State, and that the debt on which
. , . \ , ...... ,. 1
said petitioner was arrested was not contracted in this State, to discharge
said petitioner from custody ; but this act shall not be construed as affecting
in any degree the law of attachment.
SEC 2. That "An act relating to arrests in civil cases in the State of
Delaware," passed at Dover, March 3d, 1853, be, and the same is hereby,
repealed, made null and void.
place and time of the return thereof, to answer as therein re
quired, the said bond shall be void.
Sec. 2. The sum in which bail is demanded shall be in
dorsed on the writ. The Superior Court, or any judge thereof,
may, on complaint, fix the amount of bail, or discharge the
defendant on common bail.
The plaintifff, or his agent, or attorney, if residing in the
county, shall have notice of the time and place of hearing
such complaint, and the plaintifff 's affidavit shall be received to
show cause of bail. When a defendant is discharged on com
mon bail, his appearance shall be entered on the return of the
process. When a bail bond is given, the defendant cannot
appear without giving special bail to the action, unless by or
der of court, or with the plaintifff's consent.
SEC. 3. The sheriff, or officer to whom a bail bond is given,
or his executors, or administrators, shall, upon request, assign
it to the plaintifff, or his executors, or administrators, by in
dorsement under seal, attested by one or more witnesses.
By special order of court the assignment may be to a per
son for whose use the action is brought, or his executors, or
administrators.
Sec. 4. A person arrested by virtue of any attachment
for contempt (except attachments for non-performance of de
crees, or the non-payment of money, or returnable forthwith,)
shall be admitted to give bail, and all the foregoing pro
visions shall apply to the ca'se. Any judge of the court award
ing the attachment may fix the amount of bail.
If no sum be indorsed on the writ, the officer executing it
shall set down a reasonable sum.
Sec, 5. Action upon a bail bond must be brought in the
same court as the original action ; and when the bond is duly
assigned, the action shall be in the name of the assignee, or
his executors, or administrators. The court may grant to the
bail and to the parties respectively in the original action, such
relief, upon such terms, and in such manner as shall be just
and equitable.
Sec. 6. Proceedings against bail, on a bail bond taken on
an attachment issued out of the Court of Chancery, shall
be by petition to the said court, which shall decree thereon
according to equity.
Sec. 7. Insufficient bail shall be regarded as no bail. A
sheriff, or officer, taking insufficient bail, shall be deemed to
have voluntarily permitted the defendant to escape, and shall
be liable accordingly. One or more citizens of the county, of
ability to answer the sum in which bail is required, shall be
sufficient bail.
Sec. 8. Although bail be taken, the court shall, upon appli
cation, grant a rule upon the sheriff, or officer, to bring the
body of the defendant into court, in the same manner as if no
bail were taken ; but if the bail be sufficient, and the sheriff,
or officer, will assign the bail bond, no further proceeding
shall be had against him, if he cannot find the defendant so as
to comply with the rule.
Sec. 9. It shall be lawful for any defendant, committed to
prison by virtue of a capias ad respondendum, * * * m
to enter special bail to the action at any time before final
judgment is obtained against him.
[And also for any person who is now or may hereafter be
imprisoned, having been surrendered by his bail, to enter
special bail anew at any time before he shall be charged in
execution by a writ of capias ad satisfaciendum delivered to
the Sheriff."]
Sec. 10. In every action for a penalty imposed by law, s
special bail may be required in the amount of the penalty ™
sued for, upon affidavit that the offense has been committed, p
SEC. II. Special bail shall have the right to take and render his principal in his own discharge, and to commit him to b
jail, at any time before the end of the term to which the scire
facias, or other lawful process, is returnable ; and a copy of
the entry of special bail shall be his sufficient warrant. If the
first scire facias be returned " nihil," a second shall be issued
and returned before the liability of the bail is fixed.
Sec. 12. Bail may satisfy any judgment rendered against
his principal ; and the plaintifff, or party having the interest
therein, shall assign the same to the bail, or his executors, or j
administrators, at the risk of the assignee, whenever it is so
satisfied.
If several persons be bail, one or more, satisfying the judgment, shall be entitled to the assignment.
Sec. 13. The assignee may proceed in the name of the
plaintifff, or his executors, or administrators, for his own use,
to execute the judgment against the principal, or his executors, or administrators, or to recover from other bail his pro
portionable share, or may make himself a party to the judg
ment by scire facias and proceed in his own name, as assignee.
Sec. 14. If any person be indebted to an inhabitant of this
State, and the day of payment is not arrived, the creditor, or
any one for him, on filing with the prothonotary an affidavit
that the defendant is indebted to him in a sum exceeding
fifty dollars, the time for payment of which is not yet come,
and that he, on good grounds, believes that said defendant is
about to leave the State, and to remove his effects, and has
refused to give better security for the debt, may issue a capias
against such debtor, and have him arrested ; and such debtor,
shall, on the return of the writ, be obliged to give better se
curity for the payment of such debt, if the court, on hearing,
shall see fit so to order, and he shall pay the costs.
If he fail to give such security, a domestic attachment may
be issued against him without the affidavit required by chap104.
But if the court shall consider that there was not sufficient cause for the arrest, judgment shall be given that the
plaintifff pay to the defendant such costs and charges as the
court shall think fit to allow.
CHAPTER CIV.
OF ATTACHMENTS.
: i. Domestic attachments when is
sued.
2. Form.
3. Dissolved by special bail.
4. Duty of officer executing it.
5 Return ; appraisement : garnishees,
6. Sale of perishable goods.
7. Gaknishp.k compelled to appear.
When discharged.
Special answer ; pica : verdict.
Judgment; Distribution.
8. May be pleaded by garnishee.
9. Capias against garnishee; when.
10. Auditors 10 be appointed.
11. Oath; notice; audit; apportionment.
Report ; payment.
Sec. 12. Exceptions to report.
13 Refunding recognizance. Trial.
14. Creditors neglecting to prove claims,
barred.
15. Judgment at second term, unless, &c
( )rder for sale of property.
16 Balance. Surplus.
Surety of defendant may prove claimOF ATTACHMENTS.
1719.
No second writ, unless Jtc ,
Proceedings not stayed by death or
payment.
Foreign attachment ; when is
sued.
20. Proceedings upon .
21. Force of sale.
Evidence under general issue.
Supplement.
Sec. I. A writ of domestic attachment may be issued against
an inhabitant of this State after a return to a summons, or
capias, issued and delivered to the sheriff, or coroner, ten
days before the return thereof, showing that the defendant
cannot be found, and proof satisfactory to the court, of the
cause of action ; or upon affidavit made by the plaintifff, or
or some other credible person, and filed with the prothonotary, that the defendant is justly indebted to the plaintifff in a
sum exceeding fifty dollars, and has absconded from the place
of his usual abode\ or gone out of the State, with intent to de
fraud Jus creditors, or to elude process, as is believed.
Sec. 2. The writ of attachment shall be directed as other
writs are, and shall command the officer to attach the defend
ant by all his goods and chattels, rights and credits, lands and
tenements, in whose hands, or possession, soever, the same
may be found in his bailiwick, so that he be and appear at the
next Superior Court, to answer the plaintifff's demand ; and
that he summon the defendant's garnishees to appear at the
said court to declare what goods, chattels, rights, credits.
money, or effects of the defendant, they have in their hands
respectively.
SEC 3. If the defendant in the attachment, or any sufficient
r ... ... . . '
person for him, will, at any time betore judgment, appear and
put in special bail to the plaintifff's action, and to all other ac
tions brought against such defendant, to the value of the
property, rights, and credits attached, and the costs, then the
garnishees and all property attached, shall be discharged.
Sec. 4. The sheriff, or other officer, shall, under such writ,
attach all the defendant's property real and personal, and his «
rights and credits that can be found ; and shall take possession
of the said personal property, rights and credits, and have
them inventoried and appraised, and shall be answerable
therefore ; but if he cannot have actual possession thereof, he
shall notify the person in whose hands, or possession, they are
supposed to be, that he attaches the same at the plaintifff's
suit, for the use of all the defendant's creditors, and that he
doth summon him, as a garnishee, to appear and answer as
commanded by the writ ; from and after which answer, the
personal property, chattels and effects, so attached, shall be
delivered to the sheriff, unless the garnishee will give securi
ty for the same.
Sec. 5. The sheriff, or other officer, shall return a particuIar
account of all property, rights, or credits, attached, and
the appraised value thereof, and the names of all garnishees
rr &
summoned.
'Sec. 6. If any property, so attached, is of a perishable nature, or will cause expense in its keeping, the court, or anyi
judge thereof, may order the said officer, on due notice, to sell
the same, and retain the money, subject to the order of court.
SEC. 7. If any garnishee, duly summoned, shall not appear
as required, he may be compelled, by attachment, to appear
and answer, or plead ; and he shall be so compelled within
two terms, or the attachment shall, as to him, be dissolved.
If he appear, and at the request of the plaintifff, or any other creditor, answers under oath that he had no money, goods/
chattels, rights, credits, or effects of the defendant, liable to
attachment, in his hands, or possession, at the time he was
notified of the attachment, or at any time after, he shall be
discharged.
He may also, at the election of the plaintifff, or other creditor, make a special declaration ; upon which judgment shall
be rendered by the court according to law.
But if any creditor of the defendant shall require him to
plead, he shall not be permitted to answer, but shall plead
" nulla bona" on which the plaintifff, or any other creditor, may
take issue and go to trial.
And if it be found that the garnishee had, at the time he
was notified of the attachment, or at any time after and before
his plea pleaded, any money, goods, chattels, or effects, of the
defendant in his hands, or possession, the jury shall render a
verdict for the plaintifff, or such other creditor, and assess
damages to the value of such property, and judgment shall be
entered against such garnishee therefore, with costs ; but the
money, levied thereon, shall be distributed among all the de
fendant's creditors as is hereinafter directed.
Sec. 8. Any judgment against a garnishee as aforesaid, shall
be pleadable in bar to any action at the suit of the defendant.
Sec. 9. If the plaintifff, in any writ of attachment, or any
creditor of the defendant therein, or any credible person in be
half of such plaintifff, or creditor, will make affidavit that any
garnishee, summoned or to be summoned thereon, is not an
inhabitant of the county where the attachment is depending,
or that he believes such garnishee is about to leave the said
county, and that he also believes such garnishee has property
of the defendant in his hands, or owes the defendant money,
whether it is due or not, then the said plaintifff, or creditor,
may issue a capias against such garnishee and hold him to
bail for his appearance at court to answer, or plead, as afore
said.
SEC. 10. On the return of a writ of attachment, the court
shall appoint three suitable persons to audit the claims of the
defendant's creditors (except such of them as have sued out
attachment before a justice of the peace, and attached any
property, rights or credits of the defendant, who shall be
barred from any dividend or benefit under this proceeding,)
and shall adjust and ascertain all their demands, including
that of the plaintifff in the attachment.
SEC. 11. The auditors shall severally be sworn faithfully to
discharge their duty according to the best of their skill and
knowledge.
They shall give thirty days' notice to the creditors of the
time and place of their first meeting, by advertisements posted
at the court-house door, and at least five other public places
of the county ; and their subsequent sittings shall be by ad
journment duly made and publicly announced.
They may investigate any claim presented, in any form they
judge best, and may examine any of the creditors upon oath.
On the receipt of the proceeds of sale of the property at
tached, or any part thereof, the auditors shall calculate and
settle the proportions, and dividends due the several creditors,
allowing to the creditors attaching and prosecuting the same
to judgment, a double share, or dividend, if such shall not ex
ceed their debt ; and they shall make report to the next term
of the court after such apportionment, and on confirmation of
the report, shall forthwith, on pain of attachment, pay over to
the several creditors their respective shares of such proceeds
according to such apportionment.
Sec 12. The court may hear exceptions to, and correct
such account and report, either in the allowance, or regulation
of claims, in the calculations, dividends, or apportionment or
otherwise.
Sec. 13. Provided that before any creditor shall receive anyRc
dividend, or share, so distributed, he shall, with sufficient surety, enter into recognizance to the debtor, before the proth on .
otary, in a sufficient sum, to secure the repayment of the same
or any part thereof, if the said debtor shall, within one year
thereafter, appear in the said court and disprove or avoid such
debt or such part thereof.
The proceeding for this purpose may be by motion to theT
court, and an issue framed and tried before the same.
Sec. 14. Every creditor who shall neglect duly to present
his claim, in person or by attorney, to said auditors, according
to notice, or to make proof thereof, as required, shall be debarred
from receiving any share, or dividends in the distribution to ber
made by the auditors.
Sec. 15. Judgment shall be given for the plaintifff in the attachment the second term after issuing the writ, unless
the defendant shall enter special bail as aforesaid ; whereupon,
the court shall make an order that the sheriff shall sell the
property attached, en due notice, and pay the proceeds (deducting legal costs and charges) to the auditors for distribution.
Sec. 16. Any balance remaining due to the creditors, after
such distribution of the proceeds, may be collected as other
debts ; and any overplus, after paying all the claims allowed
and costs, shall be returned to the defendant, or his executors,
administrators, or assigns.
Sec. 17. Any surety of the defendant by recognizance, bond,
bill, assumption or otherwise, shall be entitled to prove the
claim, arising on such liability, before the auditors, and to
share in the distribution.
Sec. 18. No second writ of domestic attachment shall issue
against the defendant, unless the first shall not be executed,
or shall be quashed, or dissolved by the court, or discontinued
by the plaintifff with consent of a majority of the creditors :
and if the plaintifff shall die, or be satisfied of his debts, it shall
not stop the proceedings ; but the name of his executor,
or administrator, or of any other creditor, may, on suggestion
of the fact, be substituted in his stead.
Sec. 19. A writ of foreign attachment may be issued against
any person not aninhabitant of this State, after a return to a
summons, or capias, issued and delivered to the sheriff, or
coroner, ten days before the return thereof, showing that
the defendant cannot be found, and proof, satisfactory to the
court, of the cause of action ; or upon affidavit made by the
plaintifff, or some other credible person, and filed with theprothonotary,
that the defendant resides out of the State, and is
justly indebted to the said plaintifff in a sum exceedingfifty dol
lars.
7KC. 20. The said writ shall be framed, directed, executed
and returned, and like proceedings had, as in the case of a
domestic attachment, except as to the appointment of audi
tors and distribution among creditors ; for every plaintifff in a
foreign attachment shall have the benefit of his own discov
ery, and, after judgment, may proceed, by order of sale, fieri
facias, capias ad satisfaciendum or otherwise, as on other
judgments.
Provided, that before receiving any sum under such judg
ment, the plaintifff shall enter into recognizance as required
by section 13 preceding.
Sec. 21. All sales under this chapter shall be good against
the defendant, his executors, administrators and assigns ; and
if action be brought against any officer, or other person,
acting under the authority of this chapter, he may, under the
general issue, give this chapter in evidence in his justification.
CHAPTER 424. Vol.. 11. Laws of Delaware.
A SUPPLEMENT TO CHAPTER 104 OF THE REVISED STATUTES OF THE
STATE OF DELAWARE.
Section i. A writ of foreign attachment maybe issued out of the Supe
rior Court of this State against any corporation, aggregate or sole, not
created by or existing under the laws of this State, upon affidavit made by
the plaintifff or any other credible person, and filed with the prothonotary of
said court, that the defendant is a corporation not created by, or existing
under the laws of this State, and is justly indebted to the said plaintifff in a
sum of money, to be specified in said affidavit, and which shall exceed fifty
dollars.
Sec. 2. The said writ shall be framed, directed, executed and returned,
and like proceedings had as in the case of a foreign attachment issued under
the Chapter to which this act is a supplement, except that attachments to be
issued under this act shall be dissolved only in the manner hereinafter pro
vided.
Sec 3. In any attachments to be issued under this act, judgment shall be
given for the plaintifff at the second term after the issuing of the writ, unless
the defendant shall have caused an appearance by attorney to be entered, in
which case the like proceedings shall be had as in suits commenced against a
corporation by summons : Provided, however, that an appearance by attor
ney to be entered as aforesaid, shall not dissolve the attachment, but the
same shall continue to bind the property or money attached as in other cases,
unless the defendant shall, upon causing such appearance to be entered, also
bring into court the sum of money specified as the plaintifff's demand in thf
affidavit, to be filed as aforesaid, with all costs then accrued, or unless he
shall give security in such form and to such amount as the court may direct
for the payment of any judgment that maybe recovered in said proceedings
with costs. Money brought into court under the provisions of this section
shall abide the final judgment in the cause, and thereupon shall, by the or
der of the court, or of the Chief Justice in vacation, be applied in satisfac
tion of such judgment as may be recovered by the plaintifff, or if judgment
be rendered for the defendant the same shall be refunded to him : Provided.
however, that no disposition of said sum of money shall be made until after
the expiration of one month from final judgment as aforesaid, and if within
said period a writ of error be taken to said judgment the said sum of money
shall remain in the court, subject to the determination of the proceedings in
error.
Sec. 1. Upon the death of one, or .more, of several plaintifffs,
or defendants, in action, wherein the cause of action survives,
such action shall not abate, but may be prosecuted by, or
against the surviving plaintifff, or defendant.
&- T 11 1 ■ r 1
Sec. 2. In all personal actions, except actions for assault
and battery, defamation, malicious prosecution, or any injury
to the person, or upon penal statutes, the cause of action shall
survive to and against the executors, or administrators, of the
person to, or against, whom the cause of action accrued. Ac
cordingly, all actions, so surviving, may be instituted, or
prosecuted, by, or against, the executors, or administrators, of
the original party. But this provision shall not affect the sur
vivorship among the original parties to a joint cause of action.
Sec. x. An action commenced by, or against, an executor,
i • • ,11 1 1111*11 1
or administrator, shall not be abated by his death, or removal
from office ; but a succeeding executor, or administrator, rna
be admitted a party plaintifff, or made a party defendant,
to such action.
Sec. 4. Writs of error are within the foregoing provisions,
Sec. 5. The benefit of a judgment for, or against, an executor, or administrator, shall not be lost by his death, or removal
from office ; but proceedings may be had upon such
judgment either at the suit of, or against a succeeding executor,
or administrator.
An executor, or administrator, may be admitted a party1
....... ., . . z j. .
plaintifff to a judgment, on motion, without scire jacias.
[He may also be admitted a party plaintifff by suggesting on
the record the death of his testator, or intestate, in the same,
manner as in cases of suits pending.]
Sec. 6. A statutory right of action, or remedy, against any"
officer, or person, in favor of any person, shall survive to, or
against the executor, or administrator, of such officer, or person,
unless it be specially restricted in the statute.
Sec. 7. .[That an executor, or administrator, may be ad-'
mitted a party plaintifff to a judgment in vacation; without
scire facias, on application to the Prothonotary, by suggesting
on the record the death of his testator or intestate.]
Section I. That no action hereafter brought to recover damages for injuries
to the person by negligence or default, shall abate by reason of the
death of the plaintifff; but the personal representatives of the deceased may
be substituted as plaintifff and prosecute the suit to final judgment and satis
faction.
Sec 2. Whenever death shall be occasioned by unlawful violence or
negligence, and no suit be brought by the party injured to recover damages
during his or her life, the widow of any such deceased person, or if there be
no widow, the personal representatives may maintain an action for and re
cover damages for the death thus occasioned.
Passed at Dover, January 26, 1866.
CHAPTER CVI.
OF PLEADING AND PRACTICE IN CIVIL ACTIONS.
Sue. 1. The judges to make rules regulating
pleadings.
2. General design.
3. Specific objects.
Entire revision of rules to be made.
4. Judgment at first term, unless there be
a sworn defense.
Copy of cause of action to be filed.
Stay of execution, on security.
Such judgment may be taken off.
Judgment for want of special bail.
Amount ; how ascertained.
5. In actions on deeds, See., when execu
tion admitted.
6. Proof of partnership ; when unneces
sary.
7. When judgment may be taken, in ac
tions on forfeited recognizances, &c.
8. When plaintifff must give security for
costs.
9. Trial causes not to be continued with
out sworn defense.
10. In trespass q. c. f., the close must be
described in narr.
1 1. No distinction between case and tres
pass,
la. Venue unnecessary when not traversa
ble.
13. The date of an instrument may he laid
truly, without other suggestion.
14. Immaterial allegations may be omit
ted.
15. Recognizances to be given on certi-*
ORARI.
1 6. Points stated on appeals from Orphans'
Court.
Skc. 17. Security on writs of errors aud ap
peals.
18. Testimony in freedom cases ; how
taken.
19. Replevin lies for unlawful detention.
20. And for goods taken in execution:
when,
a*. What debts may be set-off.
aa. In case of executors, &c.
23. On proof of set-off and tender of
balance, plaintifff to suffer nonsuit.
24. Action by public officer does not abate
by his death or removal.
15. Verdicts may be general or special.
36. What papers may be taken by tbe
jury.
37. Payment of money due by obligation,
&c, may bt proved without seai.
28. Marriage of a female plaintifff does not
abate her action .
Proceedings stayed until husband is
made a party.
39. Infant sues by guardian or ne&L
friend.
The parol does not demur.
30. If plaintifff become insane ; suit, how
conducted.
31. Suits against unincorporated compa
nies .
32. No declaration necessary in confess
ing judgment.
33. Declaration nun* fro tunc.
Sec. 1. The Judges of the Superior Court, or any three of
them, shall have power, by any rules to be, from time to time,
by them made, in term or vacation, to make such alterations
in the mode of pleading in said court, and in the mode of entering
and transcribing pleadings, judgments, and other pro
ceedings in actions of law, and such regulations as to the pay
ment of costs, and otherwise for carrying into effect the said
alterations, as to them may seem expedient : provided, that
no such rule shall have the effect of depriving any person o
the power of pleading the general issue, and of giving the
special matter in evidence, in any case where such power is,
or shall be given by act of the general assembly.
Sec. 2. Such rules shall be so framed as to promote and
require conciseness, brevity and plainness in pleading, with
out regarding form, further than it is necessary, or conducive
to these objects.
Sec. 3. The said judges, shall also have power, by such
rules, to regulate the taking depositions, or excepting thereto,
the distribution of money in court, the order and manner of
trying causes and of pleading, of notices, and all other mat-&
ters regulating the practice and mode of conducting the busi
ness of said court, in all cases not expressly provided for by
law.
They shall, before the next fall term, revise the rules of
. , . , , . r .
Said court with a view to the attainment, as far as practicable,
of the following improvements in practice :
First, simplifying and shortening the pleadings and other
proceedings ;
Second, presenting more distinctly the questions to be tried
by a jury, particularly in some of the actions on promises, by
a more full and precise statement in the declaration, or by a
bill of particulars, and by a more definite statement of the
ground of defense ;
Third, excluding unnecessary and immaterial averments
and recitals, and prohibiting useless repetitions.
Fourth, the expediting the decision of causes ;
Fifth, the diminishing of costs ; and
Sixth, the remedying of all abuses and imperfections that
may be found to exist in the practice.
Sec. 4. (In all actions in the Superior Court upon bills,
notes, bonds, or other instruments of writing for the payment
' ' /- , 1 e •
of money, or for the recovery of book accounts, on foreign
judgments, and in all actions [of] scire facias on recognizances in the Orphans' Court and Court of Chancery, judg-f
ments or mortgages, judgment by default shall be entered
upon motion by the plaintifff or his attorney on the last day of
the regular term to which the original process is returnable,
notwithstanding appearance by the defendant, unless the de
fendant, or if there be more than one, one or more of them
shall have previously filed in the cause an affidavit stating
that he or they verily believes or believe there is a legal defence to the whole or part of such cause of action, and setting
forth the nature and character of the same ; if the defense be
to a part only of the cause of action, the defendant, or if
there be more than one, any one or more of them shall, in
such affidavit, specify the sum which he or they admits or ad
mit to be due, and judgment shall be entered for the plaintifff
at his election for the sum acknowledged to be due ; Provided,
That no judgment shall be entered by virtue of this section
unless the plaintifff, or if there be more than one, some one or
more of the plaintifffs shall, on or before the first day of the
term to which the original process is returnable, file in the of
fice of the prothonotary a copy of the instrument of writing,
book entries, or claims, or in case of a scire facias, a certified
abstract or transcript of the judgment, or mortgage, or recog
nizance, and in case of a suit on a foreign judgment a copy of
said judgment, certified to under the act of Congress passed
May 26, 1790, with an affidavit stating the sum demanded,
and that he or they verily believe that the same is justly and
truly due : And provided also, That upon any judgment under
this section a stay of execution for six months shall be granted
on security being given by the defendant for the payment of
such judgment, with interest and costs, in such form as by the
rules of the court shall be prescribed. In case of a suit by or
against a corporation, the affidavit by the cashier or treasurer
shall be sufficient in this section. In case of security being
given as aforesaid by the defendant, the entry of such securityshall
have all the force and effect of a judgment, and at the
expiration of the stay given, the said judgments, with costs,
may be collected by execution process sued out jointly or sev
erally against said principal and surety. Any affidavit au
thorized under the provisions of this chapter may be taken
out of this State before any judge of any court of record, the
mayor or chief magistrate of any city or borough, a commis
sioner of deeds for this State, or any consul or vice-consul of
the United States ; such affidavit being certified under the
hand and official seal, or seal of court, city or borough, as the
case may be, of the person taking the same.)
Upon sufficient cause shown, the court may open such judg
ment and let the defendant into a trial, security being first
given, in manner and form as aforesaid, for the payment of
such judgment, with interest and costs, as the plaintifff may
recover in such action.
In actions commenced by a capias ad respondendum, if spec
ial bail be not given at the term to which the process is re
turnable, the plaintifff may, at his election, on the last day of
the term, cause a common appearance to be entered for the
defendant, and move for judgment under the provisions of this
section, in like manner as if special bail had been given as
aforesaid.
The amount of a judgment by virtue of this section, shall
be ascertained under the order of the court, and shall not exceed
the sum demanded in the affidavit to be filed by the plaintiff as aforesaid ; but if such judgment be not entered, any affi
davit filed, under this section, by either party to the action,
shall not be used in such action for any purpose whatever.
Sec. 5. In any action brought upon any deed, bond, bill,
note, or other instrument of writing, a copy of which shall
have been filed with the declaration, the defendant not being
an executor, or administrator, shall not, on the trial, be allowed to deny his signature or that of any other party to the
instrument, and the execution of such instrument shall be taken to be admitted, unless the defendant shall have filed an
affidavit, denying the signature, at the time of filing his plea,
or within such further time as the court shall, on motion, allow.
SEC. 6. In any action by, or against partners, it shall not
be necessary for the plaintifff, on the trial, to prove the partnership,
but the same shall be taken to be admitted as alleged
on the record, unless some one of the defendants shall, at
or before the time of filing his plea, file an affidavit, denying
the existence of the partnership as alleged, and stating, to
the best of his knowledge and belief, whether there is any
partnership in relation to the subject matter of the action,
and who are the partners therein.
SEC. 7. In any action on a forfeited recognizance, or bond,
to keep.the peace, or for the appearance of a defendant, or off
a witness, in the Court of General Sessions of the Peace and
Jail Delivery, or in the Court of Oyer and Terminer, if a copy
of the bond, or recognizance, shall have been filed on or be, . >r . . j.i • r 1 .
fore the return day of the writ, and the service of such writ be
duly verified, the attorney general or other attorney on behalf
of the State, or plaintifff, shall be at liberty to move for judg-nl
ment in open court on the last day of the term to which such
writ is returnable, unless the defendant, or some one for him,
shall have filed an affidavit of defense, stating therein the na
ture and character of the same.
Sec. 8. In case where the plaintifff resides out of the State,
in qui tarn actions, in suits on administration, or official bonds,
or where the plaintifff, after suit brought, has been discharged
under any insolvent law, the defendant, on motion and affidavit of a just, or legal defense against the whole demand, may
have a rule for security for costs by a certain day, or that non
suit be entered.
SEC 9. No cause, at issue and advertised for trial by jury,
shall be continued without an affidavit that the defendant has
a just, or legal defense to the action, or some part of it ; and
for want of such affidavit, judgment shall be rendered for the
. rr
plaintifff.
SEC. 10. In actions of trespass quarc clausum frepit, the
, i- .1 11 j . 1 11 1 1 ■ , .
close, or place of the alleged trespass shall be designated inq
tne declaration by name, or abuttals, or other proper descriptlon.
Sec. 11. In all actions on the case, it shall be no objection
to maintaining such actions that, but for this section, the form
thereof should have been trespass ; and in all actions of trespass
it shall be no objection to maintaining such actions that,
but for this section, the form thereof should have been case.
Sec. 12. It shall not be deemed necessary, in any declaration, or other pleading, to lay the venue in the county in which
the action is brought, nor to set forth in any manner the place
in which an act is alleged to have been done, unless when,
from the nature of the case, the place may be material, or
traversable.
Sec. 13. When any deed, note, or other instrument, bears
date at any place, it may be alleged to have been made at
j-j^j. piacCi vvithout any averment, or suggestion, that it was
within the county in which the action is brought.
SEC. 14. All allegations heretofore usually inserted in dec
larations and other pleadings, which are not' material, or travand
which the party could not be required to prove,
may be omitted ; unless when they are required for the right
understanding of allegations that arc material.
SEC. 15. On the issuing of a writ of certiorari to a justice of
the peace, the party applying therefore, shall enter into a recognizance to the defendant in a reasonable penalty, and with
sufficient surety to be approved by the prothonotary, with
condition to be void if the plaintifff therein shall proseeute
said writ to effect and pay the condemnation money and all costs,
or otherwise abide the judgment of the Superior Court in the
case, if he fail to make his plea good.
The recognizance shall be entered by the prothonotary in
the docket where the certiorari is entered, and a note of the
recognizance having been taken, shall be indorsed on the writ,
or the justice shall not obey it.
No further surety shall be required, although other writs
may be issued to complete the record ; but the court may order better security.
_, tlT1 ' . . , _ , -^
Sec. 10. When an appeal is taken from the Orphans Court
to the Superior Court, one of the judges of the Orphans' Court
shall, at the request of the party appealing, sign a paper, in
the nature of a bill of exceptions, presenting fairly and fully
the points decided, for which the exception is taken.
Sec. 17. On a writ of error to the Superior Court, or an ap' • 1 1 1 1 « » r
peal from chancery, security shall be given as heretofore,
cfec. i»S. On the hearing of a petition for freedom, the testimony may, in the election of the defendant, be reduced to
writing by a judge, or other person named by the court, to be
read in the Court of Errors and Appeals in case of an appeal ;
or the same witnesses may be heard in the appellate court,
Sec. 19. When any goods, or chattels, shall be unlawfully
detained from the owner, or the person entitled to the possession
thereof, such owner, or person, may have remedy by ac-^
r , J J
tion of replevin.
Sec. 20. An action of replevin shall lie to recover goods
and chattels seized by virtue of any process ofexecution, or
attachment, with damages and costs for the taking and detention thereof, against the officer seizing the same, at the suit
of the owner of such goods and chattels not being the defend
ant in the execution, or attachment, the proper pledges and
security being given, as in other cases, by the plaintifff in the
replevin, before delivery to him of the goods and chattels re
plevied.
SEC. 21. Mutual debts between parties to an action, due, at
the time of action brought, in the same right, and being for a
sum liquidated, or which can be ascertained by calculation,
may be the subject of set-off in such action.
SEC. 22. If either party sue, or be sued, as an executor, or
administrator, and there are mutual debts between his testator,
intestate, and the other party, one debt may be set off
against the other.
SEC. 23. If the defendant in an action, having a demand
against the plaintifff which is the subject of set-off to the
plaintifft's cause of action, shall, before suit brought, have tendered to the plaintifff a statement of such demand, or the written
evidence of it where it is evidenced by writing, as in case
of a note, bill, bond, &c, and shall also have tendered to the
plaintifff as much money as upon trial shall be found due to
him over and above the set-off, such plaintifff shall suffer non
suit and pay the costs.
SEC. 24. An action brought by, or in the name of any publie officer, shall not abate by his death, resignation, removal
from office, or the expiration of his term, but may be prosecuted by his successor, if there be a successor who might have
originally commenced and prosecuted the like action.
SEC. 2;. A jury may, in any case, find a general or special
J J J J " ° *
VerdlCt.
SEC. 26. Papers read in evidence to the jury, although not
under seal, except depositions, may be carried from the bar bvw
. ' * ' J
the JUry.
Sl-X. 27. Payment of money contained in the condition ofj
an obligation, or any part thereof, and also payment of money
,., • 1 i_'ii i_ • i
due by judgment, single bill, or other specialty, or any part
thereof, is and shall be pleadable in an action on such obligation,
judgment, bill or specialty, although such payment may
not be evidenced by instrument under seal, or may not have^
been made strictly according to the condition of the obliga
tion.
SEC. 28. The marriage of a female plaintifff shall not abate
. 1 .•
the action.
Her husband may be made a party, on motion ; and, on thea
defendant's motion, proceedings shall be stayed until he be
come a party, unless there be another responsible plaintifff.
Sec. 29. A guardian shall be admitted to sue and defend
for his ward. An infant may also sue by his next friend. In
no suit at law, or in equity, shall the parol demur, or pro
ceedings be deferred, because of the infancy of a party plain
tiff, or defendant.
Sec. 30. If, pending an action, either party shall become in
sane, the action may be prosecuted, or defended, by his trus
tee, or the court may appoint a guardian ad litem as the case
may appear.
[Sec. 31. That whenever any business is transacted in this State
by an unincorporated association of persons using a common
name, (ordinary partnerships excepted,) suits may be brought
and the pleadings conducted against the individuals compos
ing such association by such common name, and judgment
recovered therein shall be a lien like other judgments, and
may be executed by levy, seizure and sale of the personal and
real estate of such association, and also that of the said per
sons in the same manner with respect to them as if they had
been made parties defendant by their individual names ; satis
faction thereof may also be obtained by attachment process.
And after the first day of July next, no unincorporated associa
tion of persons (partnerships as aforesaid excepted,) shall trans
act business in this State unless the individual names of all con
cerned therein shall be first certified by an officer of such as
sociation to the Prothonotary of each county, to be filed in
his office ; any person violating this provision shall forfeit and
pay five hundred dollars to any person who will sue for the
same.
Sec. 32. No declaration shall be necessary, nor shall any
cognovit be required for the confession of any judgment ; and
every warrant of attorney authorizing the confession of judg
ment, whether after declaration filed or otherwise, shall be
taken to authorize such confessions without the filing of any
such declaration.
Sec. 33. No judgment D. S. B., heretofore entered, shall be
taken to be invalid because it does not appear that any dec
laration or cognovit was filed prior to the entering of the
same, but whenever such declaration is required by the bond
on which such judgment was entered, the court before whom
any question shall be raised about the validity of such judg
ment for want of such declaration shall allow such declaration
to be filed, nunc pro tunc, and the filing thereof, by virtue of
such allowance, shall have the same effect as if it had been
filed as the authority for the entering of such judgment.]
Sec. I. If any person, duly summoned by process to attend
as a witness before any court, magistrate, or other officer, lawfully authorized to issue the same, shall, without reasonable
excuse, fail to attend, according to the direction of such pro
cess ; or attending shall refuse to testify when required by such
court, magistrate, or other officer, he shall be liable to the ag
grieved party for all damages occasioned by such failure, or
refusal, to be recovered in an action on the case.
COMPETENCY OF CERTAIN WITNESSES.
SEC. 2. When any corporation shall be a party to, or inter-,
,. . 1 . 1,, r - • , . *
ested in an action, or proceeding, whether of a civil, or crimi
nal nature, a person shall not, by being a member of such
corporation, be rendered incompetent to testify in such action
or proceeding.
SEC. 3. A person who is disqualified to testify in an action,
by reason of having become the special bail of a defendant,
or surety in a replevin bond, or in an appeal from a justice of
the peace, or for costs, may be discharged by order of the
court, so as to be sworn as a witness : provided another suffi
cient bail, or surety, be first substituted in his stead, to be lia
ble in like manner and to the same extent as he would have
been. Such substituted security shall be taken in such form
as the court may order.
Sec. 4. In criminal prosecutions, a free negro, or free mulatto, if otherwise competent, may testify, if it shall appear to
the court that no competent white witness was present at the
time the fact charged is alleged to have been committed ; or
that a white witness, being so present, has since died, or is
absent from the State and cannot be produced : provided,
that no free negro, or free mulatto, shall be admitted as a wit
ness, to charge a white man with being the father of a bastard
child.
Section- '• That a Party t° the record in any action or judicial proceeding>
or a person for whose immediate benefit such proceeding is prosecuted
or defended, may be examined as if under cross-examination, at the instance
of the adverse party, or any ofthem, and for that purpose may be cornpelled in the same manner, and subject to the same rules of examination,
as any other witness t0 testif>' > but the party calling for such examination
snall not be *exchided thereby, but may rebut his testimony by other evidence.
Sec- 2- That a Party proposing to examine a party adverse in interest
may have the same process and means of compelling attendance and response,
as tne jaw provides in the case of ordinary witnesses.
Sec. 3. That no person shall be excluded from testifying as a witness by
reason of his having been convicted of a felony, but evidence of the fact may
be given to affect his credibility.
Passed at Dover, February 18, 1859.
PROOF OF LAWS, &C.
Sec' 5- The printed copies of the acts and resolutions of
the general assembly, whether of a public or private nature,
published by authority of the State, shall be admitted as evi
dence thereof in all courts of law, or equity, and oh all occa
sions whatever.
SEC. 6. Printed copies of statutes of any other of the
United States, if purporting to be published under the author
ity of their respective governments, or if commonly admitted
and read as evidence in their courts, shall be prima facie evi
dence of such law.
SEC. 7. The common, or unwritten, law of anv other of the
T T .. j S. 1 , r , .J ^»."*-i ui 111c
United states, may be proved as facts by parol evidence ; and
the reports of cases adjudged in their courts, and published
by authority, may also be admitted as evidence of such law.
SeC- 8' The existence> and the tenor, or effect, of all foreign laws, may be proved as facts by parol evidence ; but if
it shall appear that the law in question is contained in' a writ
ten statute, or code, the court may, in its discretion, reject
any evidence of such law, that is not accompanied by a copy
thereof.
Sec- 9- A11 records, surveys, patents, deeds, or other instruments of writing, or exemplifications of office books, touching
the title to any lands and tenements in this State, which are
kept in any public office in the State of Maryland, mav be
proved by copies thereof, attested by the officer having leo-al
custody of the same and the seal of his office ; and bein^scproved
shall have such faith and credit given to them in&all
of law, or equity, in this State, as they have in the
of the State of Maryland.
Sec. 10. Any copy, authenticated as before provided, ofS
such records, surveys, patents, deeds, or other instruments ofb
writing, and exemplifications of office books, touching the titie
to lands and tenements in any county of this State, being
recorded in the office of the recorder of such county, such
record, or a duly certified copy thereof, shall be evidence in
all courts of law, or equity, in this State.
CHAPTER 30. Vol. 13. Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT PROVIDING FOR THE PROOF OF THE ORDINANCES AND RESOLU
TIONS OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF WILMINGTON.
Section, i. The printed copies of the Ordinances and Resolutions of
the City Council of Wilmington, whether of a public or private nature, published
by authority of " the City Council,'' shall be admitted as evidence
thereof in all courts of law or equity, and on all occasions whatever, and in
pleading it shall not be necessary to recite or draw them out at large.
Passed at Dover, "January 25, 1866.
OTHER MATTERS.
Sec. 11. A book of original entries, regularly and fairly kept,
shall, together with the oath, or affirmation, of the plaintifff,
be admitted in evidence to charge the defendant with the sums
therein contained for goods sold and delivered, and other matters properly chargeable in an account. Cash items are not
properly so chargeable. Such book may, in like manner, be
admitted, with the oath, or affirmation, of a defendant, to es
tablish a set-off.
Provided, that the party proving his book of original entries
shall be subject to cross-examination touching the same, and
the entries therein, and the transactions to which such entries
relate.
Sec. 12. In criminal proceedings, it shall be primafacie evidence
of the incorporation of a bank, that it has been reputed
to be an incorporated bank, or has issued notes as a bank.
Sec. 13. In the trial of actions at law, the court, on motion
and due notice thereof, may order a party to produce books,
or writings, in his possession or control, which contain evidence pertinent to the issue, under circumstances in which the
production of the same might be compelled by a Court of
Chancery ; and the Court making such order, shall have the
same power for enforcing it which is exercised by a Court of
Chancery in like cases. Upon failure of a plaintifff to comply
with such order, the court, on motion, may render judgment
against him as in cases of nonsuit ; and upon a like failure of
a defendant, the court, on motion, may render judgment against
him by default.
SEC 14. A copy of any record, or paper, belonging to a publie office, or legally in the custody of a public officer, being
made under the hand of the officer and his seal of office, if there
be such seal, shall be deemed to be duly certified, and shall be
competent evidence.
CHAPTER 449, Vol. u. Laws of Delaware.
an act to admit testimony on trial of indictment for libel.
Section i. That from and after the passage of this act, on the trial of indictments
for writing or publishing a libel, the truth of the matter charged
as libellous may be given in evidence ; and if the jury, in any such case,sna"
^"^ l^at l^e act was induced by good motives, and with no malicious
intent, and that the matter so charged is true, it shall operate to the acquit
tal of defendant or defendants.
SEC. 2. That in actions for damages for the writing or publishing a libel,
where the truth is pleaded and given in evidence, if it be found that the same
was written or published properly for public information, and with no mali
cious or mischievous motives, the jury may find for the defendant or de
fendants.
Passed at Dover, March 4, 1857.
CHAPTER CVIII.
Sec. 1.
Who may administer oaths generally.
To members of the legislature.
To witnesses before legislature.
Commissioners under order of court.
Surveyors: chain carriers.
Forms to be supplied.
Oath on the Evangels.
With uplifted hands.
OF OATHS.
Sec. 7. Affirmations.
8. Oath of Heathens.
9. Who may administer oath out of the
State.
Act authorizing Deputy Sheriffs toadminister.
Act authorizing the Clerks of die
United States Courts to administer.
Sec. I. The chancellor, any judge, justice of the peace, or
notary public, shall have authority, in any case in which an
oath, or affirmation, is necessary, or proper, to administer such
oath, or affirmation.
Sec. 2. The proper oaths of office may be administered to
members of either house of the general assembly by any other
member of the same branch ; and to the clerk and sergeantat-arms
of either house, by the speaker thereof.
Sec. 3. Witnesses to be examined before either house, may
be sworn, or affirmed, by the speaker thereof, or if to be examined before a committee, then by any member of such com
mittee.
Sex:. 4. The persons appointed, or authorized, by any decree,
order, rule, or commission, made in, or issued out of
the Court of Errors and Appeals, the Court of Chancery, the
Superior Court, the Court of General Sessions of the Peace
and Jail Delivery, or the Orphans' Court, to perform any duty,
or for any purpose, shall severally have authority to administer
to each other and to any surveyor, or person, by them em
ployed, and to any witness produced before them, any oath,
or affirmation, required or proper to be taken in the case.
Every surveyor shall have authority to administer the
proper oath, or affirmation, to chain carriers acting under
him.
The form of oath, or affirmation, required to be taken by
, , • 1 <• -i • 1 >•
persons appointed, or authorized, as aforesaid, with directions
for administering the same, shall accompany every commis
sion, rule, or order, issued out of any court as aforesaid.
Sec. 5. The usual oath in this State, shall be by swearing
upon the Holy Evangels of Almighty God ; the person to whom
it is administered laying his right hand upon the book, and
kissing it.
Sec. 6. A person may be permitted to swear with the uplifted
hand ; that is to say, he shall lift up his right hand anded
swear by the ever living God, the searcher of all hearts, that,
&c, and at the end of the oath shall say, " as I shall answer
to God at the Great Day"
Sec. 7. A person conscientiously scrupulous of taking an
oath, may be permitted, instead of swearing, solemnly, sincerely
and truly to declare and affirm to the truth of the mat
ters to be testified.
SEC. 8. A person believing in any other than the Christian
religion, may be sworn according to the peculiar ceremonies of
his religion, if there be any such.
[Sec 9. In all legal proceedings in this State wherein an
oath or affidavit is required to be made by any person not
residing in this State, such oath or affidavit may be adminis-^
tered and certified in the same manner and by the same per,1 r \ • r> *i r I • i 1 i
sons as the laws of this State prescribe for taking the ack no wl-is
edgment of deeds or the probate of accounts against a de
ceased person's estate where the said acknowledgment or pro
bate is made out of this State.]
CHAPTER 201. Vol. 12. Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT AUTHORIZING DKPUTY SHERIFFS TO ADMINISTER OATHS.
SECTION i. That it shall and may be lawful for the respective Sheriffs of
the several counties of this State now holding office, or hereafter to be elected, to appoint deputies, who shall have full power and authority to administer oaths in all cases in which, by the laws of this Sta'e, an oath is author
ized and required to be administered by the Sheriff, and that, in all cases in
which the oath is administered by a Deputy now appointed, whose appoint
ment is recorded in the Recorder's Office in and for the county in which the
the sheriff and deputy reside, and in all cases in which the oath shall be ad
ministered by an appointed Deputy hereafter made and recorded as aforesaid,
the oath so administered, or to be administered shall be as effectual in law
as though it had been done by the Sheriff himself from whom the appoint
ment issued.
Passed at Dover, "January 30, 1862.
CHAPTER 14. Vol. 13. Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT AUTHORIZING THE CLERKS OF THE UNITED STATES COURT FOR THE
DISTRICT OF DELAWARE TO ADMINISTER OATHS AND AFFIRMATIONS
AND TAKE ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF WRITINGS.
Section i. That the Clerk of the Circuit Court of the United States,and
the Clerk of the District Court of the United States, for the District of Dela
ware, shall be and they are hereby authorized to administer oaths and affirm
ations and to take acknowledgment of the execution of instruments of writ
ing in this State which are to be used in their respective courts or in any
District or Circuit Court in the United States.
Passed at Dover, February I, 1866.
CHAPTER CIX.
Sec. i. Who are liable to serve as juror. Ex
empts,
a. Jurors; how selected.
Levy court in March to select names.
To provide boxes, ballots, &c.
And make and deliver lists.
Act in relation to Petit Jurors in New
Castle County.
3. Grand jurors of previous year to be
omitted.
4. Grand jury; howdrawn.
5. Pktit jurors; howdrawn,
6. Exempts drawn, to be returned to the
box,
7. Recorder to act in absence of either
clerk
8. List of jurors to be delivered to sheriff.
o. Jury boxes ; how disposed of.
10. Sheriff to summon juries
And return panels 10 court.
11. Grand Jury to serve for the year.
Forty-eight petit jurors for Court of
Oyer.
of Juries.
Sue. 11. Eighteen, when Superior Court is is
session.
12. Grand jurors to be sworn at each term.
13. Tales de circumstantibus awarded.
14. Jury ballots to be prepared.
Jury, How drawn : names kept separate
15. Jury may be drawn from residue.
16. Special Jury; when ordered.
How struck ; lisL
17. Jury to be drawn from this list,
18 Expenses of special jury ; how paid .
19. Challenges how many.
20. View when ordered.
Expenses 10 be advanced
When to be taxed as costs.
si Clerks to keep record of jurors atten
dance.
22: Jury list* to be signed by the judgesPayment by treasurer ; lisf.s to levy
court.
23. Officer to be fined for neglect.
24. Penalty for fraud.
15 Penalty on jurors not answering.
Forfeiture: fine; remission.
SEC. I. All persons qualified to vote at the general election.
shall be liable to serve as jurors ; except public officers of thisb
J * *
State, or of the United States, counsellors and attorneys at
law, ordained ministers of the gospel, officers of colleges and
teachers in public schools, practising physicians and surgeons
regularly licensed, cashiers of incorporated banks, and all
persons who are more than seventy years of age.
(Sec. 2. The Levy Court for each county shall, at its annual
session in March, select from the list of taxable citizens
of such county, in such proportion for each hundred as mayJ
be deemed proper, the names of one hundred sober and judicious persons, to serve (if summoned) as Grand Jurors at thcK
several courts to be holden in that year ; and also the names
of one hundred and fifty other sober and judicious persons, toJ
serve (if summoned) as Petit Jurors at the several courts,
other than the Courts of Quarter Sessions,* to be holden in
that year ; and also the names of one hundred and twenty
, J , ' ,.... ,.r 1N J
other sober and judicious persons to serve (if summoned) as
jurors at the Court of Quarter Sessions to be holden in that
year. There shall be provided for each hundred, three boxes,
one of which shall be marked or labelled " Grand Jurors,"
another " Petit Jurors," and the other "Quarter Sessions
Jurors,"* and each with the names of the hundred. The names
of the persons selected as aforesaid, shall be written each on
a separate ballot, all the ballots being of the same color, size
and shape, and the ballots shall be folded so as to conceal the
names written upon them. Those containing the names of
persons selected for Grand Jurors shall be deposited in the
boxes marked " Grand Jurors," the names selected from each
hundred being placed in the box of that hundred ; in like
manner the names of persons selected for Petit Jurors shall
be deposited in the boxes marked " Petit Jurors," the names
selected from each hundred being placed in the box of that
hundred ; in like manner the names of persons selected for
Quarter Sessions Jurors* shall be deposited in the boxes marked
" Quarter Session Jurors," the names selected from each hun
dred being placed in the box of that hundred* ; after which
the boxes shall be locked and delivered to the Prothonotary,
and the keys shall be kept by the Clerk of the Peace. The
Levy Court shall preserve lists oi the persons so selected for
and shall deliver to the said Prothonotary, with theKe
boxes aforesaid, copies of said lists signed by the Chairman of
said court, and countersigned by the Clerk thereof, showing
the number selected from each hundred.)
CHAPTER 558. Vol. 14. Laws of Delaware.AN ACT RELATING TO PETIT JURORS OF NEW CASTLE COUNTY.
Section i. That the number of petit jurors now provided for and required
law in each county be increased in and for New Castle county, to double
such number, and the first thirty persons drawn according to law shall constitute
and be denominated the first panel of petit jurors, who shall, if summoned, attend at the then next term of the Superior Court or Court of Generai
Sessions, and shall, unless previously discharged, serve as petit jurors
thereof for the first ten secular days of the said term, when they shall be
discharged, unless they, or any one of them, are empaneled for the trial of
a cause, in which case the jurors so empaneled shall continue to serve until
the rendition of the verdict in such cause or a discharge from the court.
And the remaining thirty petit jurors provided for and selected as aforesaid
shall constitute and be denominated the second panel of petit jurors, and
shall be summoned to attend the said courts on the second Friday of the
term aforesaid and they shall, if summoned, attend the Courts aforesaid, on
the day last aforesaid and serve as petit jurors thereof for the remainder of
the term aforesaid. And all the petit jurors aforesaid shall be subject to all
tne provisions of law respecting petit jurors that are not inconsistent herewith.
Passed at Dover, March 19, 1 873. •
Sec. 3. The levy court, in selecting the names of persons
to be drawn for jurors in any year, shall omit the names of
^^ w\\o may have served as grand jurors for the next previous
year.
Sec. 4. The prothonotary and clerk of the peace shall, withjn
ten days after the delivery of the said boxes to the prothon
otary as above provided, meet in the prothonotary's office, and
first shaking the boxes so as to intermix the ballots, shall, in
the presence o) such persons as may choose to be present,
draw from the box marked "Grand Jurors," in the same pro
portion for each hundred in which they were selected by the
levy court, the names of twenty-four persons to be summoned
as grand jurors for that year.
Sec. 5. The prothonotary and clerk of the peace shall, at
ieast twenty days before the commencement of each term of
the Superior Court, and Court of General Sessions for the coun
ty, in like manner draw from the boxes marked " Petit Jur
ors," in the same proportion for each hundred in which they
were selected by the levy court, the names of thirty persons
to serve as petit jurors at the ensuing term of said courts,
Sec. 6. If, at the drawing of jurors under the two foregoing
sections, the name of any person exempt by law from serving
as a juror, or who is absent from the State, be drawn ; or if at
the drawing for petit jurors, the name of a person who shall
have served as a petit juror at the next preceding term of the
said courts, or who shall have any matter of fact at issue pend
ing for trial at the ensuing term of said court, be drawn, such
name shall be returned to the box, and another drawn in its
stead. If a person having any matter of fact at issue as afore
said, be drawn and summoned contrary to the foregoing pro
vision, he shall be subject to be challenged.
Sec. 7. If, at any drawing for petit jurors, the prothonotary,
or clerk of the peace, be a party to any issue of fact for trial
at tjie ensujng terrn 0f saj(j courts, or if, at any drawing for
grand or petit jurors, either of the said officers be absent, his
place shall be supplied by the recorder of deeds for the coun
ty, who shall receive for his service the same compensation
and be subject to the same penalties for default as by law is
provided in the case of the prothonotary, or clerk of the peace.
SEC. 8. The officers drawing for grand and petit jurors as
aforesaid, shall, immediately thereafter, deliver to the sheriff
of the county a correct list of names of the persons so drawn,
with the date of the drawing indorsed thereon.
Sec. 9. The said boxes shall, immediately after any drawing
for jurors, be locked and kept by the prothonotary, the
keys being delivered into the custody of the clerk of the peace.
Sec. 10. The sheriff of the county, upon receiving a list ofs
persons drawn for grand jurors as aforesaid, shall, at least ten
days before the next ensuing term of the Court of General
Sessions for his county, summon in writing each of the said
persons to serve as the standing grand jurors for that year at
the said court. He shall, in like manner, upon receiving a list
of persons drawn for petit jurors as aforesaid, at least ten days
before the next ensuing term of the Superior Court, and Court
of General Sessions, summon in writing each of the said per
sons to serve as petit jurors at the then next term of the said
courts respectively.
The sheriff shall, within one hour after the opening of said
, r r &
courts respectively, on the first day of every term, return to
each of said courts a separate and distinct panel of persons
summoned to attend thereat as grand, or petit jurors, showing
the christian and surnames, and places of abode of such jurors.
Sec. 11. The grand jurors for the year, drawn as aforesaid,,
1 11 1 11 11 1 ■
shall be summoned and returned to attend, as grand jurors, at
any Court of Oyer and Terminer, when the precept for holding
such court directs a grand jury to be summoned.
For any Court of Oyer and Terminer, forty-eight petit jurors shall, upon notice from the sheriff to the prothonotary and
clerk of the peace that such court is to be held, be drawn,
summoned and returned according to the foregoing provisions
for drawing, summoning and returning petit jurors for the Supe
rior Court and Court of General Sessions -.provided, that if the
day assigned for holding a Court of Oyer and Terminer, shall be
at a time when a petit jury is in attendance upon the Superior
Court [or] Court of General Sessions, such jury shall constitute a part of the panel of the petit jurors to be summoned to
attend the said Court of Oyer and Terminer, and only the residue of the said number of forty-eight jurors shall be drawn according
to the foregoing provisions.
SEC. 12. The grand jurors shall, at every term of any court
which they shall attend during the year for which they are
drawn, be severally sworn, or affirmed, to the faithful discharge
of their duty and trust.
SKC. 13. If, at any court, a sufficient number of grand, or
Petit jurors, drawn and summoned as aforesaid, do not appear ;
or if the panel returned by the sheriff be quashed by the court,
the court may award a talcs dc circnmstantibus, or make such
other order as it may deem expedient, for filling up the requis
ite number of jurors to serve at such court.
In like manner, a deficiency of petit jurors maybe supplied,
when by reason of challenges, or otherwise, a sufficient num
ber are not ready for the trial of a cause.
Sec. 14. The prothonotary, or clerk of the peace, shall,
under the direction of the judges presiding, write the name of
each petit juror, returned and empanneled as aforesaid, upon
a distinct ballot, all the ballots being of the same color and
size ; and shall roll up the said ballots, all in the same man
ner, as near as may be, and put them together in a box to be
provided for the purpose.
Wheft a- cause is called for trial, an. indifferent person shall,
in open court, draw out twelve of the said ballots successively ;
and if any of the jurors, whose names are so drawn, shall not
appear/or shall be challenged and set aside, then a further
number shall be drawn, until twelve jurors appear, and. upon
challenge, are allowed.
The said twelve persons first drawn, appearing and allowed,
their names being marked in the panel, and they being sworn,
or affirmed, shall be the jury to try the cause.
The names of the persons so sworn, or affirmed, shall be
. r _'
kept apart in another box to be provided for the purpose,
until the Verdict of such jury shall have been rendered and
recorded, or until the jury shall be discharged by the court ;
when the same names shall be rolled up and returned to the
first mentioned box, to be kept with the other names remain
ing then undrawn ; and so toties quoties, as long as any cause
remains for trial.
Sec. i 5. If, before the discharge of a jury empanneled in a
cause, another cause shall be called for trial, a jury to try such
other cause may be drawn from the residue of the ballots not
containing the names of the jurors drawn.
SPECIAL JURIES. 1
Sec. 16. A special jury for the trial of a cause, shall be
1111 , 1 i«. r-i *
ordered by the court upon the application of either party, and
the mode of striking the same shall be as follows, viz : The
party applying for the special jury shall give due notice to the
opposite party, and to the prothonotary, of the time and place
of striking such jury ; at which time and place the prothono
tary, or his deputy,' or if the prothonotary be not indifferent
between the parties, then two proper persons indifferent be
tween the parties, appointed by the court, or any judge, shall
attend with a list of torty-eight indifferent and judicious citi
zens of the county, qualified to serve as jurors, showing their
names and places of abode. The party applying for the spe
cial jury, his agent ,or attorney, shall first strike out one>:of
said names, and then the opposite party; his agent, or attor
ney, shall strike out another ; and so on, .until each shall have
struck out twelve. If the opposite party shall not attend-,
nor any person on his behalf, or shall refuse to strike, the prothonotary,
or his deputy, or the persons appointed to strike
the jury, as the case may be, shall strike for the party not at
tending, or refusing to strike. After each party shall have
struck twelve names, the remaining twenty-four persons on
said list shall be the jury to be returned for the cause ; and
the prothonotary, or his deputy, or the persons appointed to
strike the jury, as the case may be, shall thereupon deliver to
the sheriff a certified list of the names of such persons, with
their places of abode, as the jurors to be summoned for the
cause, annexed to a venire facias commanding him to summon
them ; and the sheriff shall, thereupon, summon the persons
named, according to the command of said writ, and shall re
turn the said list with the venire.
Sec. 17. At the trial of the cause, a special jury shall be
drawn from the list, returned under the foregoing section, in
the manner provided for other cases. •
SEC. 18. The party applying for a special jury, shall pay the
expenses occasioned by the trial of the cause by such special
jury, and the same shall not be allowed to him as part of theh
costs in the case, unless the court shall, immediately after the
trial of the cause, certify upon the record that the said cause
was proper to be tried by a special jury. The court, in its dis
cretion, may order payment of the costs of striking and sum
moning a special jury, or any part thereof, before the trial of
the cause wherein such jury shall be summoned.
Sec. iq. In all civil suits each party mav, by himself, or at, . . . . r J . ' J ,
torney, challenge, without cause, any juror, or jurors, drawn
for the trial of the cause, not exceeding three in number, and
the deficiency, so created, shall be supplied by drawing as
many additional names as are necessary to make up a full 'jury
to try the cause.
Sec. 20. Upon the motion of either party, the jury may be
taken to view the premises, or place, in question, or to which
the controversy relates, when it shall appear to the court that
such view is necessary to a just decision: provided, the
party making the application, shajl- advance a sum sufficient
to defray the expenses of the jury and the officers who attend
them in taking the view ; which expenses shall be afterward
taxed as part of the costs in the case, if the party advancing
them shall prevail in the action.
SEC. 21. The prothonotary, or clerk of the peace shall keep,
in a book provided for that purpose, the surnames alphabeti-»;<;
cally of all persons summoned and returned to serve as grand
jurors, or as petit jurors, at the said courts respectively, together with their christian names and places of abode ; and
shall mark the attendance of each juror and the default of
each juror in not answering every call of his name by order of
the court.
Sec. 22. The prothonotary, or clerk of the peace, shall, at
each court, make a list of the jurors in attendance, showing
the amount due to each juror for his service at such court ;
and the said list being approved and signed by the judges
present, the prothonotary, or clerk, shall draw an order pay
able to each juror, or his order, for the sum so allowed for his
service, upon the treasurer of the county, who is hereby re
quired to pay the same.
After the drawing of such orders, the said lists shall be
transmitted by the prothonotary, or clerk, to the levy court.
SEC. 23. When, by a neglect of any of the duties enjoined
by this chapter upon any of the officers herein mentioned, a
jury shall not be duly drawn and summoned to attend any
court to which their attendance is by law required, every per
son, guilty of such neglect, shall forfeit and pay a fine of fifty
dollars to be imposed by the court upon a summary investiga
tion, as for a contempt of court, and to be for the use of the
county in which the offense is committed.
Sec. 24. If any prothonotary, clerk of the peace, or record
er, shall commit any fraud, either by practising on the jury
boxes previous to a draft, or in drawing a juror, or in return
ing into the box the name of any juror which had been law
fully drawn out, and drawing or substituting another in his
stead, or in any other way in the drawing of jurors : or if a
sheriff shall commit any fraud in the summoning, or returning,
of jurors, either in the summoning, or returning, of persons
who shall not have been drawn as jurors, or in refusing to
summon and return persons who shall have been drawn as
jurors, or otherwise ; every officer so offending, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeancr, and shall forfeit and pay a
fine not exceeding two hundred dollars.
Sec. 25. If any person, summoned to attend as a grand, o
petit juror, at any court, under any of the foregoing provisions,
shall fail to comply with such summons, or to answer to every
call of his name by order of the court, such defaulting juro
shall forfeit his fees for the day's attendance, or pay a fine not
exceeding ten dollars, at the discretion of the court ; the fin
when imposed, to be for the use of the county in which the
offense shall be comitted.
The court may, upon proper cause shown, remit a fine so im
posed.
Sec. i. A judgment shall bind lands only from the time of
actually entering, or signing it, and not by relation from
the first day of the term in, or of which it is entered.
Sec. 2. A judgment upon a verdict, if entered before the
end of the term next after that in which it is given, shall be
deemed to be entered at the same time as the verdict, andD
shall bind accordingly.
Sec. 3. A judgment given, amount to he ascertained by the
prothonotary, or other person, shall bind from the time of its
entry, if the amount be ascertained and entered upon the
docket before the first day of the term next after that inT
which the judgment is given ; but otherwise only from the
time of entering upon the docket the ascertained amount.
Sec. 4. If several judgments be entered against the same
person, on the same day, the first entered shall have the priority. If, where there are several judgments against the same0f
person, it does not appear, by the entries, which was first en
tered, they shall, when given in suits previously commenced,
have priority according to the priority of the dates of the suits
in which they arc respectively given.
Sec. 5. A judgment entered during a term, if the day
of entering it does not appear by the docket, shall bee
postponed to a judgment entered during the period of the
same term, the day of . entering which does appear by the
docket. None of the foregoing regulations shall contravene
the provisions of the second "section respectirigjudg'mertt upon
a- verdict'. • • ■ ,'.-'' r .. '
SEC. 6. The foregoing provisions of this chapter do not ex
tend to judgments before a justice of the peace.
SEC. 7. A final judgment of the Court of Errors and Appeals,
given upon the reversal of a judgment of the Superior Court,
shall bind real estate in the county wherein were the pro
ceedings in the court below, from the date of entering it in
the Court of Errors and Appeals : provided, that the record
being remanded, the said judgment be entered upon the dock
et of the court below within twenty days after said date ;
otherwise, the said judgment shall be a lien only from the
time of entering it upon the docket of the court below.
Sec. 8. The prothonotary of the court below to whom a re
cord remanded with a duly certified copy of the proceedings
and judgment of the court of Errors and Appeals is delivered,
shall, without delay, file it, and enter upon the docket of the
court below, in connection with the entries of the proceedings
in the cause in said court, the said proceedings and judgment
of the Court of Errors and Appeals, with the date of making
such entry.
Sec. 9. The said entry, made under the foregoing section,
shall be a record, and the judgment, so entered, shall have the
same force and effect as a judgment of the court below, and
shall be executed by the process of the said court in like man
ner as judgments of said court; and the lien thereof may be ex
tended to lands and tenements in another county by means of
a testatum fierifacias entered of record in the office of theprothonatory of such county.
Sec. 10. The lien of a judgment shall not be extended, by
affirmance, to real estate not bound by the original judgment.
SEC. II. A judgment of the Court of Errors and Appeals
shall not bind real estate otherwise than as prescribed by the
foregoing provisions.
ENTRY OF JUDGMENTS.
. SEC. 12. The true date of entering, or signing, everv judgo*
o oT ^ j o
ment shall be entered on the docket thereof, as also the date
0f ascertaining the amount of a judgment given, the amount to
be ascertained by the prothonotary, or other person ; and all
judgments shall be indexed according to the provisions of chap
ter 37.
Sec 13. A judgment, entered by the prothonotary of the
Superior Court upon an obligation, without declaration filed.
according to the provisions of chapter 37, section 5, shall have
the same force and effect as if a declaration had been filed and
judgment confessed by an attorney, or judgment obtained in
open court.
Sec. 14. When judgment is confessed by virtue of a warrant
of attorney for a penalty, the attorney confessing the judgment
shall, in a written direction to the officer entering the
judgment, set down the real debt, and the time from which in- «
terest is to be calculated ; which shall be entered by the said o
officer upon the docket of the judgment.
SATISFACTION OF JUDGMENTS.
SEC. 15. Every person, to whom a sum is due by judgment,
or decree, receiving satisfaction of the same, shall, within
sixty days thereafter, cause such satisfaction to be entered d
upon the record of the judgment, or decree.
Sec. 16. The foregoing section does not extend to cases
where a sum due by judgment is received from the sheriff, orti
other officer, on execution ; nor does it extend to a judgment
of a justice of the peace, unless a transcript thereof be en
tered in the Superior Court, in which case satisfaction shall
be there entered.
Sec. 17. Satisfaction, as aforesaid, shall be entered by the
prothonotary, or by his deputy, upon application of the party,
or his attorney, who must sign the entry.
Sec. 18. Any person committing a default under section 15
of this chapter, his executors, or administrators, shall be liable
to the defendant in the judgment, or decree, or the exec
utors, or administrators, of such defendant, in damages, to
be recovered by an action on the case. The damages shall
not be less than ten, nor more than fifty dollars, except when
special damages to a larger amount shall be alleged in the
declaration and proved.
SEC iq. When the sheriff, or other officer, to whom an exy J '
ecution is directed, levies, or receives the sum due thereon, orcc
any part thereof, or obtains a settlement of the execution, he
shall make return of such receipt, or settlement, under his
hand, indorsed upon the execution, with the sum and date of
each payment, if the execution be not fully satisfied. If the
receipt or settlement, be after the execution is returned, it
shall be certified, within thirty days thereafter, to the protho1 rr 1 ■• t iit
notary in whose office the execution is. In such latter case,
the prothonotary shall annex the certificate to the execution:
and he shall enter every return of payment, or settlement, as
aforesaid, upon the docket of the execution. If the judgment
is thus satisfied he shall also note it on the record of such
judgment.
(It shall be the duty of the sheriff, or other officer having
sold real estate by virtue of execution process, in his return
_ J . . 1 T !■ 1
to such process, to show expressly to what lienor liens the
money arising from the sale thereof has been applied, and how
much has been applied to each lien. If, for any cause, the sheriff,
or other officer, shall not be able to make a proper return
as aforesaid, by the return day fixed, the court shall, upon
application made by said officer, give further time for making
such return, and when said return has been made, it shall be
"
the duty of the prothonotary to cause satisfaction to be en
tered upon the record of such judgment or judgments as shall
have been paid by such proceeds of sale, and where the sum
applicable to any lien shall not be sufficient to pay the same,
in that case to note as a credit, on the record thereof, the
amount applied thereto by such return.)
Whenever there is any judgment in any county of this State,
against any person or persons, upon which a testatum fi.fa.
has been issued and recorded in another county, or a transcript
of the same has been so made and recorded, and the judgment
upon which the testatum fi. fa. has been issued, or that of which
a transcript has been made and recorded as aforesaid, has.been
satisfied, it shall be the duty of the prothonotary for the
county where such original judgment is or shall be, within
thirty days after such satisfaction, to certify the fact of such
satisfaction to the prothonotary of the county where the tes
tatum fi. fa., or transcript, shall have been recorded, and upon
the receipt of such certificate the prothonotary of the county
where the testatum fi.fa., or transcript, shall have been re
corded, shall write the fact of such satisfaction, within two
days thereafter, upon the record where the testatum fi. fa., or
the transcript is, or shall be, recorded. If any prothonotary
shall refuse or neglect to perform any of the duties enjoined
upon him by this section, he shall be liable in damages to any
person injured by his default in an action on the case ; such
damages shall not be less than ten nor more than fifty dol
lars, except when special damages to a larger amount shall be
alleged in the declaration and proved).
This section does not extend to an execution issued by a
justice of the peace.
Sec. 20. If any prothonotary, or sheriff, shall refuse, or neg
lect, to perform any of the duties enjoined upon him by the
foregoing section, he shall be liable in damages to any person,
injured by his default, in an action on the case ; and such de
fault shall also be a breach of his official obligation, or recog
nizance, as the case may be.
JUDGMENT AGAINST EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS.
Sec. 21. Judgment against an executor, or administrator,
upon the report of referees, shall not be conclusive that he has
assets, unless it be expressly found by the report that he has
assets.
Sec. 22. The real estate of a deceased person shall not bt
liable to be taken in execution upon, and shall not be bound
by a judgment against his executor, or administrator, unless
such judgment be rendered upon a verdict, or an inquisition,
or upon the report of referees on a rule of reference entered,
upon application of the parties, by the prothonotary in vaca
tion, or the Superior Court in term time, referring all matters
in controversy to three judicious and impartial freeholders (or
more if the parties so request) to be appointed by the prothonotary,
or court ; judgment to be rendered on their report, or
the report of a majority of them.
SEC. 23. If a defendant, being summoned, fail to appear, or
appearing, neglect or refuse so to plead as to put the cause at
issue in order for trial by a jury, a rule of reference under the
foregoing section may be made by the court upon the applica
tion of the plaintifff only.
SEC. 24. When such rule of reference is entered by the court
upon the application of the plaintifff only, at least ten days'"
notice of the meeting of the referees shall be required.
SEC. 25. Such rule of reference maybe entered after a judgment by default, or upon demurrer, as well as before jndgment. j
Although it be entered after judgment, nevertheless judgment
shall be rendered on the report made pursuant thereto, and
such judgment on the report shall be regular, notwithstanding
the previous judgment.
CHAPTER 164. Vol. 13. Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT RELATING TO LIENS.
Section i. In all cases in which commission merchants, factors, and all
common carriers, or other persons, shall have a lien under existing laws
upon any goods, wares, merchandise, or other personal property, for or on
account of the costs or expenses of carriage, storage, or labor bestowed on
such goods, wares, merchandise, or other personal property, if the owner or
consignee of the same shall fail or neglect, or refuse to pay the amount of
charges upon any such property, goods, wares, or merchandise, within sixty
days after demand thereof, made personally upon such owner or consignee,
or at his last known place of residence, then in such case it shall and may be
lawful for any such commission merchant, factor, common carrier, or other
person having such lien as aforesaid, after the expiration of said period of sixty
days, to expose such goods, wares, merchandise, or other personal property
to sale at public auction, and to sell the same, or so much thereof as shall
be sufficient to discharge said lien, together with costs of sale and advertis
ing : Provided, That notice of such sale, together with the name of the
person or persons to whom such goods shall have been consigned, shall
have been first published, for three successive weeks, in a newspaper published
in the county, and by six written or printed handbills, put up in the„
most public and conspicuous places in the vicinity of the depot where said
goods may be.
SEC. 2. Upon the application of any of the persons or corporations hav
ing a lien upon goods, wares, merchandise, or other property, as mentioned
in the first section of this act, verified by affidavit, to any Judge of the Superior Court of thjs State, or to the Chancellor, setting forth that the place of
residence of the owner or consignee of any such goods, wares, merchandise,
or other property is unknown, or that such goods, wares, merchandise or
other property are of such a perishable nature, or so damaged, or showing
any other cause that shall render it impracticable to give the notice as re
quired in the first section of this act, then, in such case, it shall and may be
lawful for the Judge, or Chancellor, hearing such application, to make an
order, to be by him signed, authorizing the sale of such goods, wares, mer
chandise, or other property upon such terms as to notice as the nature of
the case may admit of and to such Judge shall seem meet : Provided,
That in cases of perishable property, the affidavit and proceedings required
by this section, may be had before a Justice of the Peace.
Sec. 3. The residue of monies arising from any such sales, either under
the first or second sections of this act, after deducting the amount of the lien
as aforesaid, together with costs of advertising and sales, shall be held sub
ject to the order of the owner or owners of such property.
Passed at Dover, March 5, 1867.
CHAPTER 96.* Vol. 14. Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT SECURING TO MECHANICS AND OTHERS, PAYMENT FOR LABOR AND
MATERIALS IN ERECTING OR REPAIRING ANY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE
WITHIN THE STATE OF DELAWARE.
Section i. That it shall and may be lawful for any person or persons
having performed or furnished work and labor, or materials, or both, to an
amount exceeding twenty-five dollars, in or for the erection, alteration or re
pair of any house, building or structure, in pursuance of any contract, ex
press or implied, with the owner of such house, building or structure, or
with any contractor who shall have contracted for the erection, alteration or
repair of the same, and for the furnishing of the whole or any part of the
materials therefore, to obtain a lien upon such building, house or structure,
and upon the ground upon which the same may be situated or erected, sub
ject, however, to the following restrictions, limitations and qualifications,
that is to say: That no contractor who shall have contracted for the erec
tion of any building, house or structure, in whole or in part, or for the repair
or alteration of the same, and for the furnishing of the whole or any part of
the materials therefore, shall be allowed to file any statement of his claim as
is hereinafter provided until after the expiration of sixty days from the com
pletion of such building, house or structure so contracted for by him, but
such contractor, in order to avail himself of the benefits of this act. shall file
his statement in the manner hereinafter provided, within thirty days after
the expiration of the sixty days aforesaid, and all other persons embraced
within the provisions of this act, and entitled to avail themselves of the lien
herein provided for, shall file a statement of their respective claims in the
manner hereinafter designated within sixty days from the completion of the
work and labor performed, or from the last delivery of materials furnished by
them respectively; and every person or persons entitled to the benefits con
ferred by this act, and desiring to avail himself, herself or themselves of the
lien herein provided for, shall, within the times hereinbefore specified, (ilea
statement of his, her or their claim in the office of the Prothonotary of the
Superior Court in and for the county wherein such building or structure is
situated. The said statement shall contain and set forth :
First. The names of the party, claimant and owner, or reputed owner of
the building, house or structure, and also of the contractor, and whether the
contract of the claimant was made with such owner or with such contractor.
Second. The amount or sum claimed to be due, the nature and kind ol
the work and labor done, or a bill of particulars of the kind and amount of
materials furnished.
Third. The time when the said work and labor or the furnishing of said
materials was commenced and finished ;
Fourth. The locality of the building, house, or structure, with such description
as may be sufficient to identify the same ;
Fifth. That the said work and labor were performed, or the said materials
furnished, on the credit of the said building, house or structure ;
Sixth. That the amount of the said claim exceeds twenty- five dollars, and
that the same has not been paid or secured to be paid to the claimant. The
claimant shall make affidavit to the truth and correctness of the said claim
and of the facts stated therein. Any judgment obtained upon such claim,
as hereinafter provided, shall become a lien upon such building, house or
structure, and upon the ground upon which the same is situated, erected or
constructed, and shall relate back to the day upon which said work and labor
was begun, or the furnishing of said material was commenced, and shall
take priority accordingly. In every case in which one claim for work and
labor, or materials, shall be filed by the same person or persons against two
or more buildings, houses or structures owned, or building, altering or repairing
by the same person or persons, the claimant shall, at the time of filing claim, designate the amount which he claims to be due to him on each
of such buildings, houses or structures.
Nothing herein contained shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect
the right of any person to whom any debt may be due for work and labor
done or materials furnished to maintain any personal action against the owner
or contractor of such building, house or structure, to recover the amount of
such debt, nor shall anything herein contained be so construed as to render
property liable to liens under this act for repairs, alterations or additions
where the same has been altered, added to or repaired by or at the instance
of any lessee or tenant without the written consent of the owner or owners,
or his, her or their duly authorized agent, first had and obtained ; Provided,
That the owner or owners of any building, house or structure, built, erected,
repaired or altered by any contractor who shall have contracted to build,
erect, alter or repair the same and furnish the materials therefore, shall be
and he is hereby authorized and empowered, in case any liens shall be entered
under this act upon the said building, house or structure, upon any
cl.tim or claims for materials which by the terms of his contract the said
contractor was bound to furnish by any person or persons other than such
contractor, to retain and withhold from such contractor ' so much of the
monies to be paid to him in pursuance of the contract made with such contractor, as may be necessary to liquidate and discharge such liens ; and in
case judgments be recovered by such lien creditors then and in that event
to apply the said monies or such part thereof as may be necessary to satisfy
the said judgments to the payment and satisfaction thereof, and such pay
ment shall be considered and treated as a payment pro tanto to the said con
tractor towards the monies provided to be paid by the said contractor : Provided further, That no suits instituted and now pending under the act to
which this is an amendmentshall abate by reason of this act, but the said act
of which this is amendatory shall be and the same is hereby maintained and
continued in force so far as may be necessary to preserve and maintain the
said suits and to complete and carry into effect any proceedings commenced
thereunder as fully and completely as though this act had not been passed :
And pro~vided also. That this act shall be treated and considered as applying
to and embracing all contracts heretofore made for work and labor performed,
or materials furnished in and about the erection, alteration or repair of any
house or structure where suits are not pending prior to the passage
of this act.
Sec. 2. The proceedings to recover the amount of any claim as aforesaid shall be by a writ of scire facias in the following form, to wit :
hath filed a claim in our Superior Court for the Countyfor the sum of for (work and labor done or
Wherkas
of against
material furnished, as the case may be,) (to or for) a certain building to wit :
(describing it as in the claim :) And whereas it is alleged that the said
sum still remains due and unpaid to the said ; now we command you
that you make known to the said , and to all such persons as may
hold or occupy the said building, that they be and appear before the judges
of our said court, at , on the day of next, to show, if
anything they know, or have to say, why the saidsum of should not be
levied of the said building to the use of the said , according to the
form and effect of the act of assembly in such case made and provided, and
have you then there this writ. Witness (as in similar writs.)
No such scire facias shall be issued in any case within ten days previous
to the return day thereof. The said writ shall be served in the same man
ner as other writs of scire facias, upon the defendant therein named, if he
can be found within the county, and a copy thereof shall also be left with
some person residing in the building, if occupied as a place of residence,
but if not so occup;ed, it shall be the duty of the sheriff to affix a copy of
such writ upon the door or other front part of such building. Judgment by
default may be entered upon motion by the plaintifff on the last day of the
term to which said process is returnable, notwithstanding appearance by the
defendant, unless said defendant shall have previously filed in the cause an
affidavit that he verily believes there is a legal defense to the whole or part
of such cause of action, and setting forth the nature and character of the
same ; and if the defense be to a part only, then specifying the sum reallydue
and judgment may be entered for the plaintifff at his election for the
sum acknowledged to be due. If such claim be not filed ten days before
the return day of said writ, or if judgment be not so entered by default, then
like proceedings shall be had as in other cases of scirefacias.
The execution of every judgment under the foregoing provisions shall be
by a writ of levarifacias in the following form, to wit :
-County, ss.
The State of Delaware, to the Sheriff of said County, Greeting :
We command you that without any other writ from us of the following de
scribed building and lot of ground, to wit : (describing the same according
to the record,) in your bailiwick, you cause to be levied as well a certain
debt of , which lately, in our Superior Court for the coun
ty aforesaid, before the judges thereof, recovered against , to be lev
ied of the said building and lot of ground, as also the interest thereon from
the -day of A. D. , andr.lso the sum of- for
the cost which accrued thereon, according to the form and effect of an act of
the General Assembly in such cases made and provided, and have vou these
monies before our judges at , at our Superior Court in and for the
county of there to be held on the day of next, to render
unto the said for his debt, interests and costs aforesaid, and have
you then there this writ. Witness (as in similar writs.)
SEC. 3. It shall be the duty of the Prothonotary in each county of this
State to procure and keep a docket, to be called " The Mechanics' Lien
Docket," in which he shall make an entry of each claim so filed as aforesaid,
setting down therein the names of the parties, plaintifff and defendant, the
amount claimed, the day upon which the claim is filed, and of the issuing of
the scire facias, a. description of the property against which the claim issought
to be charged, the amount for which judgment is rendered, the day on
which the same is rendered, the party for and against whom it is rendered,
and in case judgment be for the plaintifff, the time to which the judgment
relates back as a lien, and other entries necessary and proper to a full under
standing of the case. The time to which the judgment shall relate back as
a lien shall be ascertained in the same manner as the amount of the judgment
is ascertained.
Secv 4. The provisions of this act are hereby declared to extend to work
and labor performed and furnished, or materials furnished, in plumbing, gasfitting, paper-hanging, paving, wharf-building, and to iron works, and machinery
of every kind in mills and factories, and to bridges, and may be as
well by and against corporations as individuals.
SEC. ;. This act shall also extend to work and labor or materials performed or furnished in the construction, alteration, furnishing, rigging,
launching, or repairs of any ship or vessel within this State: Provided,
nevertheless, that no bill of particulars and affidavit [is] aforesaid shall be
filed more than four days after such ship or vessel has been launched, rig
ged, furnished, and ready for sea, or after such repairs have been completed;
and the same shall contain the name of the ship or vessel, or a description
thereof, sufficient for identification. Upon filing said bill of particulars and
affidavit under the provisions of this section, the Prothonotary may issue a
writ of attachment, directed to the Sheriff of the county in which the vessel may be, commanding the Sheriff to attach the defendant by such ship
or vessel, together with the tackle, apparel, and furniture, wheresoever the
same be found in his bailiwick, so that he be and appear at the next term of
the Superior Court to answer the plaintifffs demands. The Sheriff shall, under such writ, seize and take possession of the said ship or vessel, and have
the same inventoried and appraised, and shall be answerable therefore. If the
defendant in the attachment shall at any time before judgment appear and
enter into a recognizance to the plaintifff in said writ of attachment in a reasonable penalty, and with surety to be approved by the Prothonotary, with
condition to pay the condemnation money, and all costs, or otherwise abide
the judgment of the Superior Court in the case if he fail to make good his
plea, then the attachment shall be dissolved, the ship or vessel shall be dis
charged, and the case shall proceed as in other cases of assumpsit for work
and labor, or materials furnished.
Sec. 6. On the return of said writ of attachment, or summons, the
„ ..... , 1 • - t.
Court may, upon petition of any person or persons claiming to have performed
or furnished work or labor or materials, at the request of the plaintiff or plaintifffs in said attachment, appoint three suitable persons to audit
and determine the claim or claims of the said plaintifff or plaintifffs, and also
the claim or claims of the petitioner or petitioners, who shall adjust and ascertain
all the demands, including that of the plaintifff in the writ. The
auditors shall severally be sworn 01 affirmed to perform their duties accordingto
the best of their skill and knowledge. They shall give ten days notice to the parties of the time and place of their first meeting by advertisement,
posted at the court house door, and at least five other public places
In the county. Their subsequent sittings shall be by adjournment duly
made and publicly announced. They may investigate any claim presented
in any form they may judge best, and may examine any of the parties
upon oath or affirmation. On receipt of the proceeds of the sale of the
property attached, or against which judgment is obtained, or any part
thereof, the auditors shall calculate and settle the proportions and dividends
due the several parties, and shall make report to the next term of the
Court after such apportionment, and upon confirmation of the report, pay
over to the several parlies their respective shares of the proceeds according
to such apportionment. The Court may hear exceptions to and correct
such account and report, either in the calculations, dividends, apportionment,
or otherwise.
Sec. 7. If the attachment shall not have been dissolved, as hereinbefore
*
provided, judgment may be given for the plaintifff in the attachment, at
the second term after issuing the writ as in other cases of attachment, and
thereupon the court may order that the Sheriff shall sell the property at
tached on due notice, and pay the proceeds, deducting legal costs and
charges, to the auditors for distribution ; any balance rem?ining due from
the defendant in the attachment to any of the parties after sjch distribution
of the proceeds, may be collected as other debts, and any surplus, after
paying costs, shall be returned to the defendant or his executors, adminis
trators, or assigns. Also sales made under this act, shall be good against
the defendant, his executors, administrators, or assigns.
SEC. 1. Lands, tenements and hereditaments, v/here no suf
ficient personal estate can be found, may be. seized and sold
upon judgment and execution obtained.
Sec 2. The following goods and chattels, the property of
white citizens of this State, shall be exempt from execution
process, to wit :*— 1st. The necessary wearing apparel of thee
debtor and his wife and children ; one bedstead, bed, and the
necessary bedding for every two persons of the family ; one
iron stove used for warming the dwelling-house ; and fuel, not'
exceeding the value of five dollars, procured and designed for
the use of the family ;
2. The bibles and school books used in the family ;
3. One cow, one swine, and one ton of hay ;
4. The library, and tools, or implements, of the debtor,
necessary for carrying on his profession, or trade, not exceed
ing in value fifty dollars ;
5. Rights of burial ; and tombs whilst in use as repositories
for the dead ;
6. Other household furniture necessary for the debtor and
his family, not exceeding in value twenty-five dollars :
Provided aliuays, that the value of the whole of the articles
exempted, shall not exceed one hundred dollars : and pro-P
vided further■, that if the debtor shall not, at the time of the
execution of said process, be in possession of all, or any, of the
above specified articles, then any other property which he
shall have in his possession, amounting in value to one hun
dred dollars, shall be exempt as aforesaid, except in every
case for taxes due in cither of the counties of this State, or in
the city of Wilmington ; which said articles and the value
thereof shall be ascertained by two impartial citizens of the
county whereof the debtor is an inhabitant, to be appointed
and to be sworn, or affirmed, faithfully and justly to fulfill the
duties of said appointment, by any justice of the peace, con
stable, or sheriff, of the said county.
This section shall not extend to, or affect, any contract, or
debt, made, or incurred, prior to the 4th day of July, A. D.,
1861 ; nor to an execution issued upon a judgment recovered
in any action of trespass vt et armis ; nor shall this section
extend, or apply, to execution process issued within Kent or
[Sussex] county.
CHAPTER 562. Vol. 14. Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT TO EXEMPT FROM EXECUTION PROCESS CERTAIN ARTICLES OF
PERSONAL PROPERTY.
Sec. i. That every person residing within this State shall have exempt
from execution or attachment process the following articles of personal prop
erty, to wit : The family Bible, school books and family library, family pic
tures, a seat or pew in any church or place of public worship, a lot in any
burial ground, all the wearing apparel of the debtor and his family, and in
addition to the articles hereinbefore specifically named shall have exempt the
tools, implements and fixtures necessary for carrying on his or her trade or
business, not exceeding in value seventy-five dollars.
Sec. 2. That every person residing within this State, and being the head
of a family, shall have exempt from execution or attachment process, in ad
dition to the exemptions made in the first section of this act, other personal
property not exceeding in value two hundred dollars, the articles to be se
lected by the debtor.
' Sec. 3. That the property exempt and required to be valued by the pro
visions of this act shall be valued by three judicious and impartial freehold
ers ; one of said freeholders shall be chosen by the creditor having the oldest
execution in the hands of the officer making the sale, one other of said
freeholders shall be chosen by the debtor, and the other of slid freeholders
shall be chosen by the officer, and in case the creditor and debtor, or either
of them shall neglect or refuse to name a freeholder, it shall be the duty of
the officer to choose for the person neglecting or refusing, and to give notice
to the freeholders thus chosen, in writing, under his hand, fixing the time
and place in said notice they will be required to meet.
SEC. 4. It shall be the duty of the freeholders, upon the receipt of the
notice and the tender of the fee hereinafter named for services in making
the valuation, to meet at the time and place mentioned in the notice, and
before proceeding to make the valuation of property exempt under this act
and requiring a valuation thereof, shall take the following oath or affirma
tion, to wit : (I do solemnly swear, or affirm, as the case may be, that I will
appraise the property of A. B., exempt from execution or attachment pro
cess under and by virtue of the laws of this State, at its true value in money,
and that I will true schedule make to the best of my knowledge and under
standing,) and shall then proceed to value the property designated and set
apart by the debtor, and to make two schedules, distinctly st iting the re
spective articles and the value thereof, with a certificate certifying that the
articles mentioned in said schedule have been appraised at their true value
in money, and were designated and set apart by the debtor and claimed by
him or her as exempt from execution or attachment process. Such certifi
cate shall be signed by the freeholders or a majority of them. The articles
mentioned by name in Section 1 of this act, shall not be valued or included
in said schedule.
Sec. 5. Any freeholder chosen as aforesaid and due notice given, who
shall neglect or refuse to perform the duties required by this act, shall forfeit
and pay a fine of five dollars to the officer serving the notices, for the use of
the county wherein the freeholders reside, and to be by such officer paid to
the county treasurer, and if the freeholder forfeiting as aforesaid shall refuse
or neglect to pay said fine for five days, it shall be the duty of the officer aforesaid to collect said fine and all proper costs thereon by levy and sale of
the goods and chattels of the freeholder so forfeiting. The cost of levy and
sale shall be the same as is provided by law for the levy and sale of proper
ty made by a collector of county taxes.
Sec. 6. The fees for the service of the freeholders in making the valuation
required by this act shall be the same as are allowed bylaw to referees before
justices of the peace, and the fees to the officer serving the notices shall be
the same as are allowed by law for summoning referees before the justices of
the peace, and shall form a part of the costs of the case upon which the offi
cer is proceeding to make the sale.
Sec. 7. The officer making the sale, and serving the notices required,
shall have authority to administer the oath required by this act, and it is
hereby made the duty of such officer.
Sec. 8. Nothing in this act shall apply to debts created or contracts entered
into prior to the passage of this act, and nothing herein contained shall
be construed as exempting any personal property from taxation, or sale for
taxes under the laws of this State.
Sec. 9. That any husband and wife jointly may make any waiver of any
of the provisions of this act.
Sec. 10. All acts or parts of acts inconsistent with this act be and the
same are hereby repealed.
Passed at Dover, April 10, 1873.
CHAPTER 451. Vol. ii. Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT IN RELATION TO THE EXECUTION OF JUDGMENTS IN CIVIL AC
TIONS.
Section i. That an execution may be issued upon a judgment in a civil
action at any time within five years from the time when such judgment was
entered or rendered, or from the time when such judgment became due; or
to collect any instalment of a judgment within five years from the time when
such instalment fell due. This section shall only apply to cases when noi
execution has been previously issued to collect such judgment or instalment,
and to cases where one or more have been issued for such purpose, and it
appears by the return of the officer that such judgment or instalment, as the
case may be, has not been paid or satisfied. As to all such cases the law
shall remain as at present.
Sec 2. That no judgment shall be deemed to be paid or satisfied, in
whole or in part, by a levy on execution process, unless it appear otherwise
than by the fact of such levy, that such payment or satisfaction has been
made.
Passcd at Dover, March 4, 1857.
INQUISITION.
Sec. 3. When lands and tenements have been seized and
taken in execution by virtue of any writ offieri facias, the°f
sheriff in office, or the person who shall have seized and taken
in execution such lands and tenements, shall, at the election
of the plaintifff in the execution, inquire by two judicious and
substantial freeholders duly sworn, or affirmed, whether the
yearly rents and profits, beyond all reprises, of such lands and
tenements will be sufficient, within seven years, to satisfy the
debt, or damages, and costs in such execution, and shall cer
tify and return such inquisition annexed to the writ under
which the same is made. Ten days' written notice of such inquisition
shall be served personally on the defendant, or left
at his usual place of abode, if he reside in the county. If he
does not reside in the county, such notice shall be served on
the tenant, or, if there be no tenant, shall be left at the man
sion-house, or other public place, on the premises.
SEC. 4. The plaintifff in an execution, his agent, or attorney,
may, upon motion to the court, or in vacation upon apphcation to the prothonotary, obtain a rule upon the sheriff in
office, or the person who shall have seized and taken in exe
cution lands and tenements by virtue of any writ of fieri facias
to hold an inquisition as aforesaid, upon such lands and tene
ments, and to return the same within thirty days after the
date of such rule.
Sec. 5. If such rule shall be laid upon a sheriff who did not
take in execution the lands and tenements to be inquired on,
it shall set forth the names of the parties, plaintifff and defend
ant, the term to which the writ of fieri facias was made re
turnable, the amount of the debt, damages and costs in said
writ expressed, together with the real debt and interest, if
any be thereon indorsed, and a description of the lands and
tenements returned on said writ.
Sec. 6. A rule to hold an inquisition shall be served, in
writing, upon the perse n on whom it is laid, at least ten days
before the expiration thereof.
Sec. 7. A neglect to hold an inquisition in obedience to a
ruie issued and served as aforesaid, shall be deemed a con
tempt of the court issuing such rule, and may be proceeded
against accordingly.
Sec. 8. Nothing contained in the foregoing sections, shall
discharge a sheriff from the liability incurred by a neglect,
or refusal, to make due return of a writ of fieri facias, as here
inafter provided,
Sec. 9. If, from the return of the sheriff, or person holding
an inquisition, as aforesaid, it shall appear that the rents and
profits, beyond reprises, of the lands and tenements taken in
execution are sufficient, within seven years, to satisfy the
debt, or damages, and costs in such execution, a writ of elegit
may issue, under which the lands and tenements inquired on
shall be delivered to the plaintifff in the execution, to be held
until the debt, or damages, and costs are levied by a reasona
ble extent, in the same manner as lands are delivered upon
writs of elegit in England.
SEC. 10. If, upon inquisition as aforesaid, the rents and
profits, beyond reprises, of lands and tenements, taken in execution, are found not sufficient, within seven years, to satisfy
the debt, or damages, and costs in such execution, or if, be
fore an extent be out, any other debt, or damages, shall be
recovered against the same defendant, his heirs, executors, or
administrators, which, with what remains due upon that ex
tent, cannot all be satisfied within seven years out of the rents
and profits of the premises extended, the sheriff shall return
accordingly ; and thereupon a writ, or writs, of venditioni ex
ponas may issue to sell such lands and tenements for the sat
isfaction of what shall so remain due upon such extent, and
also towards satisfaction of all the rest of the said debts, or
damages, as in other cases.
ELEGIT.
Sec. 11. If a sheriff, on entering upon lands and tenements
to execute a writ of elegit, shall find the same in possession
of the defendant in the writ, his executors, or administrators,
or of any person holding under him, or them, or any of them,'"
he shall remove the person, or persons, so in possession, and
deliver the premises to the plaintifff, or his agent, without in
quiring into the defendant's title thereto.
SEC. 12. If the defendant in the elegit shall hold only anii
undivided share of the lands and tenements mentioned in the^
writ, the other owner, or owners, of a share, or shares, shall
not be removed from the possession of the premises ; but
only the share of the defendant shall be delivtred, and only
the defendant, or person holding under him, shall be removed
from the possession as aforesaid.
Sec. 13. If the sheriff, upon executing a writ of elegit,
shall not find the defendant, nor any person holding under
him, in possession of the lands and tenements mentioned in
the writ, he shall, upon inquiring the value of such lands and
tenements, also inquire by the same jury, upon oath, or affirm
ation, into the title of the defendant in the elegit to the
premises therein mentioned, and shall certify and return such
inquisition annexed to the writ under which it is made.
SEC. 14. If, by such inquisition, it shall be found that the,
1 • 1 • 1 r 1 i',i
lands and tenements, mentioned in the writ of elegit, are liable
to be taken in execution for the debt, or damages, and costs
therein, the court shall award a writ in the nature of a writ ol
haberefacias possessionem, under which the sheriff shall deliver
to the plaintifff, or his agent, the said premises, and remove
from the possession of the same the person, or persons, pos
sessed thereof, and all persons who may have become pos
sessed thereof at any time after said inquisition.
SEC. 15. The finding of the jury, upon an inquisition as
aforesaid, shall not be conclusive ; but a person removed from
lands under an elegit, or any other person, may maintain an
ejectment, or any other proper legal remedy, for recovering
possession of the premises, notwithstanding such finding, if
the same were not liable to execution for said debt, or dam
ages, and costs.
Sec. 16. If the jury, upon an inquisition as aforesaid, shall
cii 11 11 i- 1 • i • ,
find that the lands and tenements mentioned in the writ of
elegit are not liable to execution for the debt, or damages,
and costs therein, the plaintifff shall not be thereby concluded,
but may proceed in such manner as he might do before the
passing of this chapter.
SEC. 17. If a person holding lands under a writ of elegit,
whether the original tenant, his executors, administrators, orw
assigns, be evicted, by due course of law, from the same, or
any part thereof, before the amount to be levied by the said
writ is satisfied, the court, out of which the writ issued, shall,
upon application, grant a rule to show cause why the said writ
and return thereupon shall not be vacated and other execution awarded upon the judgment, or other relief granted ac
cording to the circumstances of the case Upon this rule the
court shall exercise equitable powers. They may direct an
account of rents and profits, and in such account may allow
for expenses in defending against the suit in which the evic
tion was determined, and all proper items.
VENDITIONI EXPONAS.
Sec. 18. A writ of venditioni exponas for the sale of any
goods and chattels, lands and tenements, taken in execution
by virtue of a writ of fieri facias, may be issued and directed
either to the sheriff in office, or his immediate predecessor (he
having seized and taken in execution such goods and chattels,
lands and tenements,) at the election of the plaintifff in execu
tion ; and all proceedings had, by virtue thereof, shall be valid
in law.
Sec. 19. The person to whom such writ of venditioni exponas
may be directed, shall, for neglect, or failure, in the execution
thereof, or in making return thereon, be subject to all such
rules of court, suits, fines, and other process and proceedings,
as any sheriff is, or can be liable to in like cases.
LEVARI FACIAS. ,
Sec 20. By a writ of levari facias, the sheriff, or other of
ficer, to whom the same is directed to be executed, may seize
and sell, at public sale, unimproved lands, and lands yielding
no yearly profit, with or without a writ of venditioni exponas ;
subject to the same provisions representing notice of sale, ap
plication of the proceeds thereof, the execution of a deed to
the purchaser, the issuing of a liberari facias for the delivery
of lands which cannot be sold, and the title under such sale,
or delivery, as are hereinafter contained for the sale of lands
under execution process in other cases.
SALE UNDER EXECUTION.
Sec 21. Goods and chattels, taken in execution by a sheriff,
or coroner, shall not be sold until the expiration of thirty
days after the levy thereon and notice thereof to the defend
ant, unless the court, issuing the execution, shall, in term
time, or a judge thereof shall, in vacation, upon application
of the plaintifff, or of the officer holding the execution, and on
its being shown that the goods and chattels are of a perisha
ble nature, or will create a charge by keeping, order the same
to be sold sooner. Such order shall direct reasonable notice
of the sale, according to the circumstances.
Sec 22. Public notice of the sale of goods and chattels by
a sheriff, or coroner, under execution process, and of the day,
hour, and place thereof, shall be given by advertisements
posted, at least ten days before the day of sale, in five, or
more, public and suitable places in the county, two of which,
at least, shall be in the hundred of the defendant's residence,
if he reside in the county ; and one such advertisement shall,
ten days at least before the day of sale, be delivered to the
defendant, and one to each plaintifff in the execution, and also
to each plaintifff in any other execution, or executions, at the
time in the hands of the sheriff, or coroner, or shall be left at
the usual place of abode of such defendant and plaintifffs re
spectively, if there be such place of abode within the county ;
and if any plaintifff in any such execution as aforesaid, shall
reside out of the county, such advertisement shall be deliv
ered to the attorney of such plaintifff, if there be an attorney
of record, and one such advertisement shall be transmitted to
such plaintifff by mail, being inclosed and addressed to him at
at the post office nearest his place of abode ; an advertise
ment shall also, at least ten days before the day of sale, be
delivered to the defendant's landlord, or his agent, if there be
such residing in the county. The provisions of this and the
next foregoing section do not apply to execution process
issued by justices of the peace.
Sec. 23. Public notice of the sale of lands and tenements
under execution process, shall be given by advertisements,
posted, at least ten days before the day of sale, in one or more
of the most public places of each hundred of the county where
the premises are situate, setting forth the day, hour and place
of sale, and what lands and tenements are to be sold, and
where they lie ; and one such advertisement shall, at least
ten days before the day of sale, be delivered to the defendant,
or be left at his usual place of abode, if he have a known place
of abode in the county ; if the defendant do not reside in the
county, notice shall be served on the tenant, or, if there be no
tenant, shall be left at the mansion-house, or other public
place, on the premises.
The provisions of the next foregoing section, respecting
the delivery of an advertisement of the sale of goods and
chattels under execution process to each plaintifff in the exe
cution, and also to each plaintifff in any other execution, or
executions, at the time in the hands of the sheriff, or coroner,
shall be, in all respects, applicable to the case of the sale of
lands and tenements under execution process.
Notice of such sale, as aforesaid, [shall also be advertised in
two newspapers in the county where said property is situated,
to be selected by the sheriff, one of which shall be the paper
of the largest circulation, to be ascertained by the sheriff from
the sworn statement of the editor or publisher as to the number of papers published and circulated for twenty-five consec
utive issues prior to the time such statement shall be sworn
to ; Provided that if there is only one paper published in said
county at said time, the sheriff may select a paper in one of
;
the other counties ; and if there shall be no paper in said
county he may select two in the other counties ; And pro
vided further, that the publishers of such papers shall not
charge for such advertising a higher rate than the ordinary
charges for other transient advertisements.]
Sec. 74. All sales of real estate, made by a sheriff by vir
tue of execution process, shall be made on the premises to be
sold, or at some public house, either in the hundred in which
the premises are situated or in the adjoining hundred, at the
discretion of the sheriff selling the same.
Sec. 25. A sheriff, constable, or other person making sale
of goods and chattels by virtue of any process, or order, shall
not, either directly, or by the agency of another, purchase
any of such goods or chattels ; and any person offending against
this section, shall forfeit and pay double the value of the
goods, or chattels, so purchased, to be recovered as debts of
like amount are recoverable, one-half for the use of the State,
and the other half for the use of the person suing.
Sec. 26. Upon confirmation by the court of any sale of
lands and tenements, made by virtue of execution process,
the sheriff, or officer making the sale, shall execute, acknowl
edge and deliver to the purchaser a good and sufficient deed
for the premises so sold.
Sec. 27. The grantee in any deed, executed under the fore
going section, shall hold the premises therein conveyed, with
all their appurtenances, as fully and amply, and for such es
tate and estates, and under such rents and services, as he, or
they, for whose debt, or duty, the same shall be sold, might,
or could, do at or before the taking thereof in execution.
Sec. 28. In any case of sale as aforesaid, the purchaser shall
be entitled to rent for the premises sold from the day of sale.
If such premises be in possession of a tenant under rent,
such rent shall be apportioned, according to the time ; the
proportion for the time the rent has been growing due to the
day of sale, being payable to the lessor or his assigns, and
the residue to the purchaser ; and each party shall have
remedy by distress, or action, for his just proportion.
A purchaser may recover his proportion of rent, although
such rent be reserved by deed (as well as rent from the day of
sale, in case no rent has been reserved) by an action of as
sumpsit for use and occupation.
In any action, or proceeding, for such rent, any fair defense,
which would have availed against the person as whose prop
erty the premises were sold, shall avail against the purchaser;
but if a rent reserved be not a fair rent for the premises, and
the lease, or contract, be posterior to the order, or to the date
of the judgment, in execution, or by virtue whereof the sale
shall be made, the purchaser shall not be limited by the rent
reserved, but may demand and recover a fair rent. If the
crop be sold separately from the soil, the demand of the pur
chaser shall proportionally abate.
SEC. 29. If a sale be made of lands and tenements by order
of the chancellor, or by virtue of an execution, and the offi-*
J '
cer making such sale, or the purchaser, be dead ; or if such
officer be out of office, and the purchase money be paid, without a deed being made pursuant to such sale ; the purchaser,
or other person having right under him by descent, devise,
assignment, or otherwise, may prefer to the Superior Court, or
Court of Chancery, at any term of said courts, respectively, in
the county wherein the premises are situate, a petition repre
senting the facts, and praying for an order authorizing and re
quiring the sheriff, or if there be legal exception to him, the
coroner of the counfy for the time being, to execute and ac
knowledge a deed conveying to the petitioner the premises so
sold, or a just proportion thereof; and thereupon the court, or
chancellor, may make such order touching the conveyance of
the premises as shall be according to justice and equity.
Sec. 30. A deed, executed pursuant to an order made under
the foregoing section, shall pass to the grantee therein all the
title and estate to and in the premises therein conveyed, which
in pursuance of the sale, and of the execution, or order by
virtue whereof such sale was make, can, or ought to be pass
ed ; but if the person, to whom such deed shall be executed,
shall not be entitled to the same, according to justice and
equity, or if a greater estate be conveyed to the grantee than
he is justly entitled to, such deed, or order, shall not prejudice
any person having right ; but such deed may be decreed to be
upon trust, or any person, having right, may be otherwise re
lieved according to equity and good conscience.
Sec. 31. An order made upon such petition as aforesaid, being
duly certified, the petition and order shall be recorded in<
the office of the recorder of deeds for the county wherein ther
premises are situate ; and such record, or a certified copy
thereof, shall be competent evidence of such petition and or
der.
SEC. 32. A deed for lands and tenements, sold by virtue ofD
a writ of venditioni exponas, directed to the predecessor ofp
the sheriff at the time in office, (such predecessor having scized
and taken in execution such lands and tenements), shall be
valid in law, without petition to, or order of, any court for
making such deed.
CHAPTER 94. Vol.. 14. Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT IN RELATION TO SALES OF REAL ESTATE UNDER EXECUTION
PROCESS.
Section i. That real estate sold by virtue of execution process shall be
discharged from all liens thereon against the defendant, or that one or more
0 °
of the defendants (if there be more than one) whose property such real es
tate is, except such liens as have been created by mortgage or mortgages
prior to any general liens ; and with respect to such, the sale shall be a dis
charge to the extent to which the proceeds thereof may be legally applica
ble to a judgment or judgments obtained for the debt to secure the payment
of which the mortgage or mortgages respectively (if there be more than one)
appear to have been given.
Sec. 2. That where there is any lien by mortgage, judgment or recogni
zance (not being the first) against the defendant or some one or more of
them (if there be more than one) in the process referred to in the first sec
tion of this act, with condition other than for the payment of money or for
the payment of money as or in the nature of an annuity, or for the payment
of interest to one or more persons during their lifetime and the principal at
their death to some other person or persons, or otherwise, in all such cases
such part of the aforesaid proceeds of sale as shall be legally applicable to
any such lien shall be paid into the court out of which the said process
issued and shall be invested by said court or otherwise disposed of for the
benefit of the parties interested as shall be just and proper under the circum
stances ; such payment into court shall discharge the officer selling the prop
erty from all liability for the money so paid.
Passed at Dover. March 29, 1 87 1 .
LIBERARI FACIAS.
SEC. 33. If lands and tenements, exposed to sale by virtue
of execution process, cannot be sold for want of buyers, the
sheriff, or officer, shall make return upon the writ accordingly.
Such return shall not make the officer liable for the debt or
damages contained in the writ ; but a writ of liberari facias
shall be awarded and directed to the proper officer, command
ing him to deliver to the plaintifff sucli part, or parts, of the
premises as shall satisfy his debt, or damages, with interest
and costs, according to the valuation of twelve men, to hold
to him as his free tenement, in satisfaction of his debt, dama
ges and costs, or so much thcrcol as the premises, by the val
uation of twelve men as aforesaid, will amount to.
Sec. 34. If lands delivered upon a liberari facias under the
foregoing section fall short, according to the valuation afore
said, of satisfying the whole debt, damages and costs for
which they are delivered, the plaintifff may have execution for
the residue as in other cases.
Sec. 35. The execution and return of a writ of liberari fa
cias shall, without deed, or other act. pass to the party to
whom the lands are delivered, the same title and estate there
in which is taken by a purchaser of lands sold under execu
tion process, and conveyed by deed from the sheriff, or officer
selling the same.
WRIT OF POSSESSION.
SEC. 36. If lands and tenements be sold by order of the
chancellor, [or by order of the Orphans' Court] or by virtue of
execution process, and the defendant, or one or more defend
ants, or any person holding as tenant under such defendant or
defendants, by lease, or contract, posterior to such order, or
to the date of the judgment whereon such execution was issued,
be in possession of the premises sold : or if such defend
ant, or defendants, shall have died in possession of the prem
ises sold within one year next preceding the day of sale, and
the person in possession either shall have come into possession
after such defendant, or defendants, and by means of his or
their possession., or shall hold under, or through a person so
coming into possession, the purchaser may have a writ of pos
session awarded pursuant to such sale.
SEC. 37. The chancellor, if the sale be by his order, [or the
Orphans' Court, if the sale be made upon its order! or thef
r 1 • 1 1 • ■ 1 -r 1 111
court out oi which the execution issued, if the sale be by virtue
of an execution, upon application of the purchaser, and
oath or affirmation by him, or some credible person for him, in
writing, stating a proper case for the awarding of such writ,
shall grant a rule upon the defendant, or defendants, owner or
owners of the premises sold, and also upon the person in pos
session of the premises, if any person other than the defendant
be in possession, to show cause, on a day in said rule specified,
why a writ of possession shall not be awarded for putting the
purchaser in possession of said premises. A writ of possession
shall not be issued without such rule made absolute.
Sec. 38. A rule for a writ of possession shall not be granted
unless applied for at the term of the return of the sale, or at
the next succeeding term.
Sec. 39. Such rule shall be served at least two days before
the expiration thereof; but if the defendant do not reside in
the county wherein the proceedings shall be, the court may
order service on the tenant in possession to be sufficient.
SEC. 40. If the defendant be in possession bona fide as tenant under, or by permission of another, a writ of possession
shall not be awarded.
Sec 41. If the defendant be owner of an undivided share, the
writ shall be restricted to such share; and any holder of another
share, or his tenant, shall not be removed, or further disturbed
than by putting the purchaser into peaceable possession of the
undivided share of the defendant.
SEC. 42. On makingf the rule for a writ of possession abso11 !• 11 r ■
lUte, the court may direct a reasonable stay of execution. Ifc
the person in possession be a tenant, execution shall be stayed"
until the usual expiration of the year of tenants, according to
the custom of letting in the place, or neighborhood, wherein
the premises are situate.
SEC. 43. A writ of possession may be according to the following form, viz ;
SEC. 44. Nothing hereinbefore contained shall deprive a pur chaser
of his remedy by action of ejectment, nor debar from
sucn remedy a person removed from possession ; and anyproceedings
under the foregoing section, shall not be conclusive
as to the title of either party.
ATTACHMENT.
Sec. 45. The plaintifff in any judgment in a court of record,
or anv person for hjm lawfully authorized, may cause an at
tachment, as well as any other execution, to be issued thereon,
containing an order for the summoning of garnishees, to be
proceeded upon and returned as in cases of foreign attachment ;
and the said attachment, condemnation, or judgment thereon,
shall be pleadable in bar by the garnishee as aforesaid in any
action against him at the suit of the defendant in the attachment.
Goods which are perishable, or will create a charge by
]{eepjngi mav be so]j on tjie orcjer 0f a judge as in cases of
foreign attachment.
CHAPTER 561. Vol. 14. Laws of Delaware.
AN ACT RELATING TO THE EXEMPTION OF WAGES FROM EXECUTION AT
TACHMENT PROCESS.
Section I. That the following shall be exempt from execution attach
" r
ment process under the laws of this State, to wit : 1st. Fifty per centum of
the amount of the wages for labor or service of any person residing within
the State of Delaware, attached under said process, and judgments obtained
by virtue of said process shall be rendered only for so much of the wages so
attached as shall remain after the said fifty per centum thereof shall have
been deducted, and the wages so deducted and exempted shall not, there
after, at any time or in any case, be subject to any execution attachment
process whatsoever. 2d. The entire amount of the wages for labor or scrvice of any married woman duringcoverturc. 3d. The entire amount of the
wages for labor or service of any minor.
Sec. 2. From every judgment given by a justice of the peace, either without
referee trial or upon the report of referees, to an amount exceeding fivej
dollars, exclusive of costs, under the execution attachment laws of this State,
the party against whom such judgment is given may appeal to the Superior
Court ; or in case any part of the plaintifff's demand, or of the garnishee's
counterclaim or set-off, exceeding five dollars, is disallowed or defalked,
such plaintifff or garnishee may appeal to said court. The proceedings shall
be as in other cases of appeal.
Sec. 3. This act shall not extend to or affect any contract or debt made
or incurred prior to the 1st day of May, A. D., 1873, nor shall it extend or™
apply to execution attachment process issued within Kent or .Sussex county.
Passed at Dover, Aprils, 1873.
RETURN OF EXECUTIONS.
Sec. 46. Every fieri facias shall be actually returned by the
sheriff to whom the same was delivered before the rising of the
court, to which it is returnable, on the second day after the
return day mentioned in the writ, with the said sheriff's certi
ficate of what he has done thereon in usual and legal form.
Sec 47. Where the levy, or seizure, by virtue of a fieri facias
shall have been of goods and chattels unsold at the return
1 1 •/■/* 1 11 1 • • f
day, the sheriff shall annex to the writ an inventory of each
article of such goods and chattels, with an appraisement of
the same, duly made and certified, so that their value may be
judged of
SEC. 48. If there have been a levy, or seizure, of lands, the
•«• 1 1 11 -r 1 • • 1 • ,
sheriff s return shall specify the principal improvements thereon,
if any, as well as the known, or computed, quantity and
situation thereof. The sheriff shall also annex to the writ an
inquisition, testifying whether the yearly rents and profits.beyond all reprises, of the lands and tenements, so taken in ex
ecution, be sufficient, within seven years, to satisfy the debt
and damages in such execution, agreeably to the provisiens
in that behalf of this chapter. *
SEC. 49. Where the levy, or seizure, in cither of the cases
aforesaid, shall be returned as made subject to prior executions, the sheriff shall, in his indorsed, or annexed return, set
forth as well the names of the plaintifffs in such prior execu
tions as shall have come to his hands, as the sums thereby to
be levied.
Sec. 50. If any sheriff shall neglect to make such return of
any writ of fieri facias to him directed, in due form and within
the time above limited, he shall answer for the debt, damages
' o
and costs in the said fieri facias mentioned, in the same man
ner as if he had returned thereon, levied to the value of the
sum or sums of money therein mentioned, and may be pro
ceeded against accordingly.
CAPIAS AD SATISFACIENDUM.
Sec. 51. No writ of capias ad satisfaciendum shall be issued
uPon any judgment in a civil action [against any free white
'person], until a writ of fieri facias on said judgment, shall
have issued, and it shall appear from the return of such fieri
facias, that the defendant therein has not either real, or per
sonal property within the county sufficient to satisfy the debt,
or damages in said fieri facias expressed ; or until the plaintifff
in such judgment, or some credible person for him, shall make
a written affidavit, to be filed in the prothonotary's office be
fore the issuing of the writ, stating that he verily lelieves that
the defendant has not cither real, or personal, estate sufficient to
satisfy the debt, interest and costs contained in such judgnii tit.
Any writ of capias ad satisfaciendum issued, contrary to
the foregoing provision, shall be void, and the plaintifff ob
taining such writ shall be liable to all the costs of the same.
Sec. 52. No writ of capias ad satisfaciendum shall be issued
r . r il • c *. • J - • -1
out of any court of this btate upon a judgment in a civil
action, [against any free white person] nor shall any such person
be imprisoned for the non-performance of a decree ior the
payment of money, until the plaintifff in such [judgment,] or
j.|le party in whose favor such decree shall be, or some credible
person for him, shall, in addition to the requirement of
the preceding section, make a written affidavit, to be filed in
the office of the prothonotary, or register in chancery, as the
case may be, before the issuing of the process, stating, that
the defendant in such judgment, or decree, is justly indebted to
the said plaintifff in a sum exceeding fifty dollars, and that he
verily believes the said defendant has secreted, conveyed away.
assigned, settled, or disposed of cither money, goods, chattels,
stocks, securities for money, or other real, or personal estate, of
the value of more than fifty dollars, with intent to defraud his
creditors ; and shall moreover, in such affidavit, specify and set
forth the supposed fraudulent transactions.
Any writ of capias ad satisfaciendum, issued contrary to the
foregoing provision, shall be void, and the plaintifff obtaining
such writ shall be liable to all the costs of the same.
# * # # * #
SEC 53. Any judge in vacation shall, upon petition of the
person arrested, and reasonable notice in writing to the party
m whose favor the process issued, his attorney, or solicitor.
investigate the specifications of fraud in an affidavit made un,,r . . r , . ,, 1
der the ioregoing section ; [or under section I 5 of chapter 99J
and, upon such investigation, may discharge the petitioner
from imprisonment, or remand him for trial by a jury at the
next term of the Superior Court of the county wherein the
process issued; upon a plea denying the said specifications of
fraud, or may make such order in the premises as he shall
deem just and proper.
Sec. 54. The provisions of section 52 of this chapter, shall
not apply to any person imprisoned by authority of thec
United States, nor to any other than execution, or final pro
cess, or commitment, for debt, or damages, or costs, of a
civil suit, or non-performance of a decree for the payment of
money.
SCIRE FACIAS ON MORTGAGE.
Sec. 55. Upon breach of the condition of a mortgage of
real estate by non-payment of the mortgage money, or nonperformance of the conditions stipulated in such mortgage, at
the times and in the manner therein provided, the mortgagee,
his heirs, executors, administrators, or assigns, may, at any
time after the last day whereon the mortgage money ought
to be paid, or other conditions performed, sue out of the Su
perior Court of the County, wherein the mortgaged premises
are situated, a writ of scire facias upon such mortgage direct
ed to the sheriff of the county, and commanding him to make
known to the mortgagor, his heirs, executors, or administra
tors, that he, or they, be and appear before the said court to
show cause, if any there be, wherefore the said mortgaged
premises ought not to be seized and taken in execution for
payment of the said mortgage money, with interest, or to sat
isfy the damages which the plaintifff in such scire facias shall,
upon the record, suggest for the non-performance of said con
ditions.
Sec. 56. The defendant in a scire facias on a mortgage,
may plead satisfaction, or payment, of all, or any part of the
mortgage money, or any other lawful plea in avoidance of the
deed, as the case may require.
SEC. 57. If the defendant fail to appear at the return day of
the scire facias, definitive judgment therein, as well as all^
other judgments to be given upon such scire facias, shall be
entered that the plaintifff have execution by levari facias di
rected to the proper officer.
SEC. 58. Under a levari facias, awarded as aforesaid, the
mortgaged premises shall be taken in execution, and after notice given in the same manner as in other cases of the sale of
lands upon execution process, shall be exposed to public sale,
and upon such sale, and confirmation thereof, shall beconveyed
by deed to the purchaser ; or if there be no sale for want
of bidders, return shall be made accordingly, and thereupon a
liberari facias may issue and be executed in the same manner,
and with like effect, as hereinbefore is provided in other cases
of the sale of lands upon execution process.
Sec. 59. The person to whom any lands and tenements
shall be sold, or delivered, under the next foregoing section,
and his heirs and assigns, shall hold the same, with their ap
purtenances, for such estate, or estates, as they were sold, or
delivered for, discharged from all equity of redemption, and
all other encumbrances made and suffered by the mortgagor,
his heirs, or assigns ; and such sales shall be available in law :
provided, that such sale, or delivery, shall not create any fur
ther term, or estate, to the vendees, mortgagees, or creditors,
than the said lands and tenements were mortgaged for.
Sec. 60. Any overplus of the proceeds of sale of mortgaged
premises, as atoresaid, after satisfying the principal debt in
the mortgage, with interest and costs, shall be rendered to
the debtor, or defendant ; and until the same is so rendered,
the officer making the sale shall not be discharged upon the
record of the court to which said sale is returnable.
SCIRE FACIAS ON JUDGMENT.
Sec. 61. A writ of scire facias may be sued upon a judg
ment in a personal, or mixed action, as v/ell as upon a judg
ment in a real action, as also upon all recognizances, to ob
tain execution of such judgment, or recognizances. Such
writ may be sued by and against the parties to the judgment,
or recognizance, and also by and against any other persons
entitled, or liable, to the execution thereof, whether as exe
cutors, administrators, heirs, terre-tenants, or otherwise.
Sec. 62. An execution may be issued upon a judgment re
covered before a justice of the peace, and of which a trans
cript shall have been filed and entered in the Superior Court,
or on a judgment upon an appeal from a justice of the peace,
at any time within five years from entering the transcript,
or giving the judgment on appeal, without scire facias, unless
it shall be necessary to make a party defendant. A party
plaintifffmay be made by suggesting the facts and stating the
proper party on the record,' without scire facias, and the pro
ceeding shall be in the name of the proper party so stated.
LIEN OK EXECUTIONS.
[SECTION 63. An execution shall not bind goods and chat
tels until it is delivered to the Sheriff or other proper officer to
be executed. An execution shall, from the time it is so de
livered, bind all the goods and chattels of the defendant with
in the bailiwick, which shall be actually levied upon within
sixty days thereafter. No levy upon goods and chattels,
made by virtue of execution process, shall be of any force or
effect as against a subsequent execution levied upon the same
goods and chattels for a longer period than three years from
the making of such first mentioned levy."]
Sec. 64. If several executions against the same defendant
be delivered on the same day, the first delivered shall have priority. If several executions against the same defendant be
delivered together, they shall have priority according to their
respective numbers.
Sec. 65. The prothonotary, issuing an execution, shall indorse
thereon the date of its issue.
Sec. 66. The sheriff, or other officer, receiving an execution,
shall, in a docket, set down the date of receiving it ; andS
when several executions are delivered on the same day, the
docket shall show the order in which they are received. He
shall also indorse upon an execution, immediately on receiving
it, the precise time of its delivery to him..
Sec. 67. The provisions of the four next foregoing sections
do not apply to executions issued by justices of the peace.
OTHER MATTERS.
Sec. 68. When an execution is issued upon a judgment for
a penalty, the officer issuingthesameshallindor.se thereon
the real debt and the time from which interest is to be calculated.
Sec. 6q. If a person arrested, or imprisoned, by virtue of an
. ' ,. . . A..,y .
execution, die in execution, or escape ; in either case, the arrest,
or imprisonment, shall be no satisfaction of the judgment,
on which the execution is issued ; and the execution shall bees
held to be in no part executed by such arrest or imprisonment.
Sec. 70. If a person, arrested, or imprisoned, by virtue ofj
an execution, be suffered to escape, the sheriff, constable, or
other officer having the custody of such person at the time of
his escape, shall be answerable for the full amount payable ac
cording to the execution ; and the person at whose suit the
execution was issued, or for whose use it is indorsed, his exec
utors, or administrators, shall have an action of debt therefore.
against such sheriff, constable, or other officer, his executors,
or administrators. The non-payment of said amount shall be
a breach of the condition of the official recognizance or obliga
tion, of such sheriff, constable, or officer.
Sec. 71. If, after the sale of real estate upon execution process,
the judgment upon which such writ is awarded shall be reversed
for error, the real estate, so sold, shall not be restored, nor
any part thereof, nor shall the sale thereof be avoided ; but in
such case, restitution only of the money for which such lands
maybe sold, shall be made.
SEC. 1. Upon a demurrer, the court shall not consider any
defect not specially alleged, if, upon the whole matter appear
ing, judgment can be given according to the merits of the
case.
Sec. 2. No judgment shall be reversed for any defect, or
imperfection, in matter of form which might, by law, have
been amended.
Sec. 3. Judgment shall not be arrested, or reversed, for any
variance between the writ and declaration ; nor for any error
in the writ ; nor for want of a warrant of attorney ; nor for
want of entry of the admission of next friend, or guardian ;
nor because an infant plaintifff prosecuted, or appeared, by at
torney ; nor for the omission of continuances ; nor for default
of a profert, or of a reference to a record ; nor for omitting to
allege that an act was done " with force and arms," or tl against
the peace," nor for want of any, or for a wrong venue ; nor for
any defect, or omission, in setting forth the summoning, or
qualification of jurors ; nor for any clerical misprision, or for
mal defect whatever ; if, upon the whole record, there appears
substantial ground for the judgment.
Sec. 4. After verdict, judgment shall not be arrested, nor
reversed, for error in the form of action ; nor for misjoinder of
causes of action ; nor for any error in any count, if there be
a sufficient count in the declaration, unless it expressly ap
pears that some part of the verdict was found on matter not
contained in any good count.
Sec. 5. The death of either party, between verdict and
judgment, shall not be alleged as error, if judgment be entered
within two terms after the verdict.
Sec. 6. The entry of a reference shall be a release of all pre
vious error. The confessing a judgment shall be a release of
errors.
Sec. 7. If an executor be named as administrator, or con-,
1 • 1 1 ■ 1 11
versely, in any pleading, it may be amended.
Sec. 8. If a female plaintifff marry, and the action proceed
without making the husband a party, it shall not be error.
Sec. 9. When it appears that an oath, or affirmation, has
been administered by competent authority, it shall be presumed
to have been properly administered unless the contrary appear.
Sec. 10. Writs of scire facias, of execution, and of error,
may be amended ; and, after judgment, the court before whom
a record is, may order the amendment of any clerical error in
any part of such record ; and when there is matter to amend
by, may order any amendment that will tend to the furtherance of justice.
Sec. 11. In any civil cause pending before the Superior
Court, the said court shall have power, at any time before
judgment, to allow amendments either in form or substance,
of any process, pleading or proceeding, in such action on such
terms as shall be just and reasonable.
Sec. 12. After judgment rendered in any civil action, anyAn
defects, or imperfections, in matter of form, found in the record, or proceedings, in the action, may be rectified and amended
by the court in which the judgment is rendered, or by the
court to which it shall be removed by writ of error, if substan
tial justice requires it, and if the amendment is in affirmance of
the judgment.
Sec. 13. In actions of assumpsit the plaintifff may, on mo-C
tion, without costs, or continuance, at any time before the
, , . r , - ,
cause is committed to the jury, file any of the common counts
applicable to the case, including also the money counts, and
the counts on an account stated. It shall be no objection
that the jury have been sworn.
Sec. 14. In any civil cause pending before the Superior
Court, the said court shall have power, during the trial, to allow an amendment of the record when any variance shall appear
between it and any written, printed, or verbal evidence in any
particular in the judgment of the court, not material to the
merits of the case and by which the opposite party cannot
have been prejudiced in the conduct of his action, or defense ;
such amendment shall be forthwith made by the prothonotary
with, or without, the payment of costs to the other party, or
on such other terms as the court shall think reasonable, and
thereupon the trial shall proceed as if no variance had appear
ed ; or the court may, in its discretion, and upon such terms
as it shall consider just, order a juror to be drawn, and
postpone, or continue the cause.
Sec. 15. Whenever a plaintifff in an action shall have mistaken
the form of action suited to his claim, the court, on
motion, may permit amendments to be made, on such terms
as they shall judge reasonable.
SEC. 16. If there be a general verdict on a declaration con
taining several counts, the plaintifff may, at any time during
the term, on motion, have leave to amend the verdict and en
ter it on any count on which the evidence by law would, at
the trial, have entitled him to recover, and may have leave to
strike out of his declaration any defective counts.
SEC. 17. From any decision permitting, or refusing, an
amendment during the trial, the party aggrieved may have a
writ of error as upon other judgments of the court ; or shall
have remedy, by motion for a new trial, or nonsuit, or other
motion, to bring the decision in review before the court itself;
and the court may, on application, reserve such motion for
hearing before all the judges in the Court of Errors and Ap
peals.
CHAPTER CXill.
OF BILLS OF EXCEPTION, CASES STATED, AND RESERVED
QUESTIONS.
Sec. 1. Bill of exceptions to be signed, when
tendered .
2. What may be excepted to.
3. Must be proposed when the point is de
cided.
Must be in writing.
Sec. 3. And signed during the term, uniess&c
4. A case stated is a part of the record.
5. Reserved questions must be signed
And certified to the Court of Appeals.
6. Security may be required on reserving
questions.
Sec i. Upon the trial, of any case on a judgment in which
a writ of error will lie, either party, in order to place upon
record any point of law arising in the course of the trial and
material to the determination thereupon, may propose an ex
ception upon such point of law ; and the chief justice of the
court, or in his absence from the trial, the justices present,
shall sign a bill, if presented, truly stating such exception,
with all matters requisite for understanding the same. The
bill, so signed, shall be a part of the record, and the matter of
law therein appearing shall be considered on a writ of error.
^EC. 2. Exception may be taken, as aforesaid, to the over-ruling
of a challenge ; to the admission, or rejection of a wit
ness, or of any evidence ; to the refusal of a demurrer to evi
dence ; to the charge delivered to the jury ; to a refusal to
charge the jury upon a point of law duly made ; or to the de
cision upon any point of law arising in the course of the tria
and material to the determination thereupon, which decision
will not otherwise appear by the record.
There shall be no exception to the allowance of a challenge,
nor to any direction respecting the manner of conducting the
trialSec. 3. The exception must be proposed when the point is
decided. Upon its being proposed, either party may insist, or
the court may require, that the substance of it shall be im
mediately settled and reduced to writing and signed by the
chief justice, or in his absence by the other justices. The bill
of exception must be drawn in form, and signed during the
term in which the exception is proposed, unless the parties
otherwise agree with the assent of the court.
Sec. 4. A case stated in any action shall be a part of the
record ; and upon a writ of error it shall be considered by the
court of error.
Sec. 5. The party, upon whose application any questions of
law are reserved by the Superior Court to be heard in the
Court of Errors and Appeals, shall, if the case require it,
make a written statement of the questions reserved, in such
fo*rm as the court may approve ; and the same shall be signed
by one of the judges of the Court in which the questions are
reserved, and shall be certified by the prothonotary of the said
court to the Court of Errors and Appeals as a part of the
record of the case.
Sec. 6. The Superior Court may require the party applying,
to have any questions of law reserved for hearing- in the Court
r T-. 1 a 1 • 11 •
of Errors and Appeals, to enter into a bond, or recognizance,
before the court, or any judge, with surety to be approved by
such court, or judge, and with condition to abide the judgment
of the Court of Errors and Appeals, and pay the condemna
tion money and all costs which may be adjudged against him ;
or the Superior Court may, in its discretion, prescribe any
other security, or any other terms consistent with justice.
Sec. I. In a court of law, whether of original jurisdiction,
or of error, upon a discontinuance, non pros, nolle prosequi,
retraxit, or non suit, there shall be judgment for costs for the
defendant : and generally, a party for whom final judgment is
given in any civil action, or on a writ of error upon a judg
ment in such action, shall recover, against the adverse party,
costs of suit, to be awarded by the court.
SEC. 2. If final judgment be given for the defendant in a
civil suit, which is in the name of the State, for the use of any
person, or corporation, judgment for costs shall be given
against such person, or corporation.
Sec. 3. Concerning costs on petitions, motions, rules and
interlocutory matters, not specially provided for, the court
shall make such order in each case as it may deem proper.
Sec. 4. A court of equity, the Register's Court, the Or
phans' Court, and the Superior Court exercising appellate ju
risdiction from the two last mentioned courts, shall make such
order concerning costs in every case as shall be agreeable to
equity.
SEC. 5. Upon affirmance of a judgment in the Court of Er
rors and Appeals, the costs of the defendant in error shall be
added, by way of increase, to his costs in the first judgment,
and be a part of said judgment ; and the amount may be sta
ted accordingly in the process and pleadings.
SEC. 6. In any proceeding before a judge, or the chancellor,
out of court, there maybe allowed for the service of process,
or the attendance of witnesses, a reasonable fee, not exceed
ing what is allowable for like service, or attendance, in pro
ceedings before a justice of the peace ; and the judge or
chancellor, may make such order for the payment thereof as
he shall consider just, and enforce obedience by attachment.
SEC. 7. If any person shall bring a suit in any court upon
a cause of action cognizable before a justice of the peace under
chapter 99, and shall not recover more than fifty dollars, be
sides costs, lie shall not recover costs ; unless he, or some
credible person, shall have previously filed in the office of the
prothonotary a written affidavit to the effect, that the plaintifff
has a just cause of action against the defendant exceeding in
amount fifty dollars.
Sec 8. Upon an appeal from a justice of the peace, the
party recovering judgment on the appeal, shall, as a part of
said judgment, recover his costs, as well those before the jus
tice as those upon the appeal, subject to the provisions of the
two sections next following.
SEC. 9. If a party appealing from the justice of the peace on
the special ground of his demand, or a part thereof, being dis
allowed, shall not establish a demand exceeding what was al
lowed to him before the justice by at least the smallest sum
for the disallowance whereof he had the right of appeal, he
shall not recover his costs on the appeal, and shall pay to the
appellee his costs on the appeal.
SEC. 10. If a party appealing on the ground aforesaid, shall
establish a demand exceeding what was allowed to him before
the justice by such smallest sum. then the appellee, although
there may be still a sum due to him, shall recover no costs on
the appeal.
SEC. 11. If upon a certiorari, a judgment, given by a justice,
be reversed, the plaintifff in the certiorari shall recover hisc
■
costs. If such judgment be affirmed, costs shall be awarded
to the defendant in the certiorari, except where the only ex-a
ception being to the execution below, such exception is allow
ed ; in which case, the plaintifff in the certiorari shall recover
costs.
SEC. 12. Within twenty days after the rendering of judgment, or other determination of any cause, or action, in the
Court of Errors and Appeals, Superior Court, or Court of
Chancery, or criminal prosecution in the Court of Oyer and
Terminer, or Court of General Sessions, the clerk, prothonotary,
or register of said court shall enter upon the docket of
such cause, action, or prosecution, a full bill of the costs
therein, setting forth distinctly each item of the fees of every
officer and person, so far as the same shall be known to him,
or he shall have in his office the means of ascertaining the
same.
Sec. 13. Upon every execution, order, or process in the nature of an execution, whereby costs are to be levied and made,
the clerk, prothonotary, or register, issuing the same, shall in
dorse all costs up to the time of the issue, showing distinctly
each item of the sheriff's fees, the amount of the fees of every
other officer and person, and the names of the officers and
persons respectively to whom such fees are due ; except that
the fees of the jury, and bailiff, and of referees, may be indorsed
in the aggregate under those heads.
SEC 14. The clerk of the Orphans' Court shall, within,,
1 r 11 • • r c *.*
twenty days after the determination of a case ot exceptions to
accounts, enter on the docket thereof a full bill of the costs in
such case ; and also shall enter in the margin of the record of"
, , , ° . r ,.
any order, return, or other matter, at the time ot recording
the same, a full bill of the costs upon such order, return, or
other matter, showing distinctly each item of the fees of every
officer, or person, so far as he shall know, or have in his office
the means of ascertaining the same ; and upon issuing an or-T
der, he shall indorse thereon every item of his own fees accrued to the time of such issue.
Sec. 15. If any clerk, prothonotary, or register, shall refuse, or neglect, to perform any of the duties enjoined upon
them respectively by the three next foregoing sections, he
shall forfeit all his fees, which should have been set down in
the bill, or indorsement, that he ought to have entered or
made, and shall also be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and
be fined thirty dollars.
Sec. 16. Each of the before mentioned courts in term time,
or any judge of the court in which any costs shall have accrued in vacation, shall, upon application of a party interested,
and reasonable notice to the adverse party, revise any bill of
costs entered upon the docket of such court, or of the court of
which such judge is a member ; and also any return, or in
dorsement of fees upon any order or process of such court ;
and also any bills of fees demanded for services in such court,
or for the execution of the order, or process thereof ; and shall
correct* any errors appearing upon such revision.
Sec. 1. Every person imprisoned, or restrained of his liberty
by any officer, or person, for any cause, or under any
color or pretense, shall have remedy by the writ of habeas corpus,
and may obtain relief; except —
First, Persons committed, or detained, on a charge of trcason,
or felony,, the species wherof is plainly and fully set forth
, , i. .
in the commitment ;
Second, Persons convicted of, or charged with treason, felony,
or any offense in another State, who ought, by the constitution
of the United States, to be delivered to the executive of such
State ; and
Third, Persons imprisoned by the authority of the United
States.
Sec. 2. The writ of habeas corpus shall be awarded and is-w
sued by the Superior Court in term, or by any judye of that
* . _ r . ,, . . ' J J b
court, or by the chancellor, in vacation.
Sec. 3. Application for such writ may be made by the party
complaining, or any one for him, setting forth, upon oath,p|
where, and by whom, and for what cause, to the best of his
knowledge, he is imprisoned, or restrained of his liberty, and
exhibiting a copy of the commitment, if there be any, or
showing why such copy could not be procured.
SEC. 4. The court, or judge, to whom such application is
made, shall, without delay, under penalty of a thousand dol
lars to the party aggrieved, award and issue a writ of habeas
corpus under seal of the court, directed to the officer, or per
son, in whose custody the prisoner is detained, returnable
forthwith before such court, or judge. The writ may be served
by any one who will do the service.
SEC. 5. When the writ is served on the person to whom it
is directed, either personally, or being left with any deputy, or
agent of his at the place where the prisoner is detained, such
person shall, without delay and within three days thereafter, if
such place be not more than twenty miles from the place of
return, and, if otherwise, within six days, make return of the
writ, and produce the body of the prisoner as therein com
manded ; and shall fully certify in writing and under oath,
the true cause, or causes, of his detainer, and a copy of all
process under which he is detained.
The return may be contradicted, and may also be amended.
SEC. 6. The court, or judge, shall, upon such return, with
out delay, proceed to examine the causes of imprisonment, or
restraint, giving notice to any party interested, and to the at
torney general, or his deputy, in cases of felony ; but the ex
amination may be adjourned, if necessary, and the prisoner
detained.
Sec. 7. If no legal cause be shown for the imprisonment, or
restraint, the court, or judge, shall discharge the party there
from.
SEC 8. If the party is detained for any cause, or offense, for
which he is bailable, he shall be discharged on becoming
bound by recognizance, in a proper sum and with sufficient
surety, for his appearance at the court having cognizance of
the matter ; and if he do not give such security, he shall be
remanded with an order therefore expressing the sum in which
he shall be held to bail, and the court at which he shall be re
quired to appear ; and any justice of the peace may, at any
time before the sitting of the said court, bail the party pur
suant to such orders.
SEC. 9. If the party is committed on mesne process in a civil
action for want of bail, and it shall appear that the sum re
quired is excessive, the court, or judge, shall decide what bail
is reasonable, and shall order that, on giving such bail, the
party shall be discharged.
SEC. 10. If the party is lawfully imprisoned, or restrained,
and is not entitled to be enlarged on giving bail, he shall be
remanded, or otherwise properly committed.
Sec. 11. If any officer, or his deputy, shall neglect, for six
hours after demand, to deliver a true copy of any warrant, or"
process, by which he detains a prisoner to any person who
shall demand such copy, and tender a reasonable sum for
copying the same, such officer, or deputy, shall forfeit and pay
to such prisoner two hundred dollars.
SliC. 12. If any officer, or person, to whom the writ of habeas
corpus shall be directed, or an)' deputy of such officer, or
agent of such person, shall neglect to return the writ, and
produce the body as required by section 5, it shall be a con-pu
tempt of the court under whose seal the writ issued, and a
forfeiture of office : and such officer, or person, deputy, or
agent, shall forfeit and pay to the prisoner five hundred dol
lars.
SEC. 13. No person who has been discharged on a habeas
corpus shall be again imprisoned, or restrained, for the same
cause, unless he shall be indicted therefore, or convicted thereof,
or committed for want of bail by some court having jurisdic-*
tion of the cause ; or unless, after a discharge for defect of
proof, or for some material defect in the commitment in a
criminal case, he shall be again arrested on sufficient proof,
and committed by legal process for the same offense.
Sec. 14. But no person shall be discharged for a mere defect
in the commitment, if the evidence before the court, or judge,
is sufficient to require that he should be committed,' or bound
for his appearance.
In such case the committing magistrate shall be summoned,
proper witnesses examined, and the accused committed pro* f l
perly.
Sec. 15. The costs in any proceeding under this chapter,
may be ordered to be paid by the county, or otherwise ; but!"
if the commitment be insufficient, the justice, or officer, who
made it, shall have no compensation for attendance.
SEC 16. If any one who has in his custody, or under his
power, any person entitled to a writ of habeas corpus, whether
any writ has been issued ornot, shall, with intent toelude the,w
. rl. . . . rr , _ _
service of such writ, or to avoid the effect thereof, transfer
such prisoner to the custody, or place him under the power, or
control, of any other person, or conceal him, or change the
place of his confinement, the person, so offending, shall forfeit
and pay to the party aggrieved thirty-six hundred dollars.
Sec. 17. If any person shall be committed for treason, or
felony, and shall not be indicted and tried at the next term of
the court where such crime is cognizable, he shall be set at
liberty on bail, unless it appear by affidavit that the witnesses
for the State (naming them) could not then be had ; and if
such prisoner shall not be indicted and tried at the second
term after his commitment, he shall be discharged from
prison.
SEC. 18. A person committed by a justice, or justices, of the
peace, or by the mayor or any alderman of any city, or town,
for a contempt, shall be entitled to the writ of habeas corpus.
Notice shall be given to the committing magistrate of the
^^ ^^
time and place of hearing. The prisoner may deny the allegg(j
contempt, under oath ; and the court, or judge, may re
mand, or discharge the party.
Sec. 19. In any action, cr proceeding, for any offense against
tms chapter, the defendent may plead the general issue, and
give the special matter in evidence.
CHAPTER CXVI.
OF ARBITRATION AND AWARDS.
Sec. 1. Reference by rule of court.
2. Who may be a referee.
3. Penalty for neglecting to serve.
4 Referees to be sworn.
Sec. 5. Report confirmed, not to be reversed
for error.
6. Report approved, of same force as a
verdict.
Judgment, or SCI. FA. thereon.
SEC. I. In any action the matters in controversy in such
all matters in controversy between the parties, may.
by consent of the parties, their attorneys, or agents, and a
rule of the court, be referred for adjustment to three indifferent
referees chosen by the parties, or appointed by the court, or
by the prothonotary in vacation. This provision shall extend
to amicable actions.
Sec. 2. Every person, not exempt from serving as a juror
maybe named as a referee in a rule of reference entered in
court, and required to serve as such.
Sec. 3. Ifa person appointed a referee, and duly notified
thereof, shall, without sufficient excuse to the satisfaction of
the court entering the rule, refuse or neglect to perform the
duties of such appointment, he shall be fined by the eourt, not
exceeding ten dollars, for the use of the county.
Sec. 4. Each referee, named in a rule of reference, shall,
before signing a report, be duly sworn, or affirmed, to deter
mine the matters in controversy faithfully and impartially,
according to the best of his skill and judgment.
Sec. 5. The report of referees upon a reference so made,
being approved by the court, shall not be reversed upon a
writ of error for want of any writ, declaration, plea, joinder in
issue, or on account of any other defect, mis-entry, or error,
in the proceedings had in such action.
Sec. 6. The award, or report, of referees, being approved
by the court, shall be as available in law as the verdict of a
jury ; and the party to whom any sum of money shall be
awarded, if he be plaintifff, shall have judgment, or if he be de
fendant, shall have a scire facias, and an execution for the
same, with the costs of the action.
Sec. 1. Every recognizance and bond, acknowledged, or
executed, pursuant to any law, or by direction of the governor, or of any court, by an executor, administrator, sheriff, or
1 rr in -i , • ■ 1
other officer, or person, to the State, with condition for the
payment of money, or the execution, or performance, of anyJ
office, trust, or duties, shall be not only for the benefit of the
State, but also upon trust for every person, or corporation,
that may be injured by the breach of such condition.
Sec. 2. Every person, or corporation, injured by the breach
of the condition of any public recognizance, or bond, as aforesaid, may, in the name of the State, but for his or its own use,
institute an action upon such recognizance, or bond, and pros
ecute the same to judgment and execution ; and for that pur
pose, may employ an attorney of the court wherein the action
shall be brought, who may, in the declaration and other plead
ings, use his own name, instead of the name of the attorney
general.
Sec. %. If several actions shall be brought upon the same
■ 1 1 1 ,■ 1 ,
recognizance, bond, or penal sum, whether ior the use of the^
same, or different persons, or corporations, and the court shall
consider that the said actions, or any two of them, ought to
be consolidated, it shall make a rule for that purpose ; and it
may disallow any part of the costs of the actions consolidated,
or make any order concerning the costs, which it may deem
proper.
Sec. 4. In an action upon a recognizance, bond, or penal
sum, breaches as many as it shall be deemed proper to insist
upon, may be assigned in the declaration or other regular
pleading, or by way of suggestion entered upon the record ;
and the jury shall assess the damages on occasion of the
breaches assigned, as the truth thereof shall appear.
Sec. 5. Upon judgment for the plaintifff by default, or on
demurrer, or otherwise, without trial by a jury, and without
an agreement for ascertaining the damages, the breaches may
De assigned, by way o\ suggestion upon the record, after judg
ment, and the action being put upon the trial list, the truth
of the breaches suggested may be inquired of, and the dam
ages on occasion thereof, assessed, either by a jury at the bar
of the court, or upon a writ of inquiry.
Sec. 6. Damages may also be ascertained by confession, by
the report of referees, or otherwise, according to the agreement of the parties, with or without a formal assignment of
breaches.
Sec. 7. If the condition, or agreement for breach whereof
the action is brought, be merely for the payment of money.or
'nterest- by instalments, or on different days, and there be
judgment for the plaintifff by default, or upon demurrer, or
otherwise, without trial by a jury, or agreement for ascertaininS tne damages ; in such case, the damages, or the amount
justly due and payable according to such condition, or agree
ment, may be ascertained as the court shall order.
Sec. 8. In an action upon a recognizance, bond, or penal
sum as aforesaid, judgment shall not be rendered for the
, . J ,° , r • 1 , \ , ,
penalty (except as is hereinafter provided) ; but damages
on occasion of the breaches complained of, being assessed, or
ascertained, judgment shall be for the sum of such damages as
debt, with costs of suit.
Sec. 9. A recognizance, bond, or penal sum, shall not be
extinguished by a judgment in an action thereon, if for a sum
as debt less than the penalty, but shall remain as a security for
any damages sustained, or to be sustained on occasion of other
Dreaches ' ar>d for the recovery of such damages, actions may
be instituted from time to time upon such recognizance, bond,
or penal sum.
Sec. 10. Nothing herein contained shall make a recognizor,
orjligor, or other party, liable for damages beyond the penalty
of his recognizance, bond, or specialty ; or in any manner ex
tend, abridge, or alter the legal operation of any recognizance,
or other instrument.
Sec. i I. If the penalty of a recognizance, or bond, acknowledged,
or executed, as mentioned in the first section of this
chapter, shall not be adequate to cover all the damages sustained
on occasion of the breaches of the condition thereof,
and such damages shall be sustained by several persons, or
corporations ; such persons, or corporations, shall stand in
priority, according to the respective dates of commencing the
actions for their uses respectively. A failure to use due diligence
in prosecuting any action, shall deprive it of such priority, and
postpone it to all the actions pending at the time of such
failure, such failure to be determined and certified by the
court.
Sec. 12. In case of execution by writ of elegit, the premises
shall be delivered to the person, or corporation, for whose use
the judgment shall have been recovered, or to the executors,
or administrators, of such person ; and the command of thea
writ shall be accordingly.
The names of such executors, or administrators, with the decease of the testator, or intestate, may be suggested upon the
record, without scire facias, in term time or in vacation.
Sec. 13. The foregoing provisions of this chapter shall extend
to an action upon a bond, or specialty, in a penal sum,
with condition for the payment of money, or interest of money,
by instalments, or on different days ; unless sujh action shall
be commenced after all the sums, whether for principal, or in
terest, which according to such condition can become payable,
shall have become payable. But if the action be commenced
after all the sums which, according to such condition, can be
come payable whether for principal or interest, shall have be
come payable ; or if the action be upon a bond, or specialty,
in a penal sum with condition for the payment of money in a
gross sum, judgment for the plaintifff shall be for the penalty
and costs of suit, to be discharged upon the payment of the
sum justly due, with interests and costs ; which said sum
justly due shall be found by a jury, or otherwise shall be as
certained as may be agreed by the parties, or ordered by the
court.
SEC. 14. None of the foregoing provisions shall extend to a
warrant of attorney to confess judgment, nor to any action, or
judgment entered, or confessed, in pursuance of such warrant
of attorney.
LIEN OF PUBLIC RECOGNIZANCE AND BONDS.
SEC. 15. Every recognizance, or obligation, acknowledged
for a penal sum, with condition for the performance, by an of,- r ,- , ,• /- i • rr r l_ 1 • .111
ficer, of the duties of his office, or of any public trust, shall,
from the caption of such recognizance, or from the time of thela
acknowledging and approving of such obligation, be a lien upon
all the lands and tenements of the officer, being the prin
cipal obligor therein, within the county wherein such recogni
zance, or obligation, is taken or acknowledged ; but the same
shall not be a lien upon the lands and tenements of the sure
ties therein.
SATISFACTION OF RECOGNIZANCES.
SEC. 16. Every person to whom a sum is due by a recognizance taken in the Orphans' Court, or in the Court of Chancery,
receiving satisfaction of the same, shall, within sixty days
thereafter, cause such satisfaction to be entered upon the record of such recognizance. Such satisfaction shall be entered
by the clerk, or register in chancery, upon application of the
party, or his attorney, who must sign the entry.
Sec. 17. Every person committing a default under the fore
going section, shall be liable to the recognizor in such recog
nizance, or the executors, or administrators, of such recogni
zor, in damages to be recovered by an action on the case. The
damages shall not be loss than ten, nor more than fifty dollars,
except when special damages to a larger amount shall be al
leged in the declaration, and proved.
Sec. 18. If any recognizance, or bond, mentioned in the
first section of this chapter, shall according to law be recorded,
or deposited in any public office ; a copy of such recognizance,
or bond, or of the record thereof, duly certified, shall be com
petent evidence.
Any court may, for sufficient cause, require the production
of the original recognizance, bond, or record ; and it shall be
the duty of the officer, having custody thereof, to produce it
as required.
CHAPTER CXVIII.
OF SUITS FOR LEGACIES.
legacies are recoverable at law.
If there are assets.
Value of specific legacy, recoverable.
Infant legatees' suit.
When legacies shall abate.
Auditors to report on question of as
sets.
5. Exceptions to auditor's report
6. Abatement for deficiency of assets
Scire facias for balance
7. Costs.
8. Refunding security. Specific legacy.
9. Rctum of part of legacy: when.
Sec. I. A legacy, when due, shall be recoverable at law by
an action of assumpsit, debt, detinue, or account render, as
the case may require, provided there be assets for the payment
of the same. Assets in the hands of an executor, or adminis
trator, to pay a legacy, shall create a legal liability and raise
a consequent promise to pay it. In case there be not assets
to pay the whole legacy, a part may be recovered.
If the delivery of a specific legacy have been refused, tbt
value of it may be recovered in this action.
SEC. 2. An infant legatee may sue for his legacy by guard
ian, or next friend, as in other cases.
SEC. 3. If there be assets sufficient to pay the debts of a testator,
with a surplus not sufficient to pay all the legacies bequeathed, an abatement from the legacies respectively, shall
be made in proportion to their several amounts, unless it be
otherwise provided by the will.
SEC. 4. Upon the plea of a want of assets to pay all the
debts and legacies, the court shall appoint auditors to examine the accounts of the executor, or administrator with the
will annexed ; who, after full hearing of the parties upon no
tice to them respectively of the times and places of such hear
ing, shall report the condition of the said accounts, what as
sets will remain after payment of the debts aforesaid, and what
proportion of such residue is properly applicable to the plain
tiff's legacy, having regard to all such settlements of said ac
counts as may have been made before any court, or officer,
having authority to settle the same.
SEC. 5. Exceptions may betaken by either of the parties to
the report of auditors appointed as aforesaid ; and thereupon
the court, upon hearing the exceptions, may correct any errors
in such report.
SEC. 6. If, upon the aforesaid proceeding, the assets be found
insufficient to pay all the debts and legacies of the testator,
execution shall be awarded only for such proportion of the as-^
sets as may be properly applicable to the plaintifff's legacy ;
but judgment for the whole legacy shall be entered and shall
stand as a security for the payment of the residue of the leg
acy, when sufficient assets for such payment shall come to the
hands of the executor, or administrator. A scire facias shall
lie for further execution, suggesting that other assets have
come to the hands of the executor, or administrator.
SEC. 7. The court shall exercise equitable powers in respect
to costs. In case of inexcusable neglect, or delay, on the part
of the executor, or administrator, to pay the legacy demanded,
or a proportional part thereof, the court may, in its discretion,
order that the costs be paid by him. No costs shall be recov
ered in an action brought for a legacy, without a reasonable
demand for the same first made upon the executor, or adminis
trator, who ought to pay the same.
Sec. 8. The court shall exercise equitable powers in requiring
the plaintifff to give security to refund the legacy, or any
part thereof, and also in respect to the delivery and acceptance
of a specific legacy.
SEC. 9. If there be several legacies, and a return of part of
a legacy, which has been paid, becomes necessary, the legatee shall only be required to return a proportional part of hisc
legacy towards taking up the whole sum wanting.
SEC. i. The legal title to lands, or to any tenements where
on entry can be made, may be tried in an action of ejectment;
and no objection shall be made to the form of action, or to the
right of the lessor of the plaintifff to make the demise, if he
could recover the premises in any form of action.
Sec. 2. If a tenant holding under a demise, be served with
a declaration in ejectment, his landlord, upon entering into
the common rule, shall be admitted defendant with the tenant
in such ejectment. If the tenant refuse to appear, and the land
lord apply to be admitted defendantjudgment shall be entered
against the casual ejector, with stay of execution subject to
the order of the court ; and the landlord on entering into the
common rule and admitting on record that he is, and, at the
time of commencing the action, was in the possession of the
premises mentioned in the declaration, or any described part
thereof for which he defends, shall be admitted defendant.
Sec. 3. If a tenant, being served with a declaration in eject
ment, neglect to give a notice thereof, without delay, to his
landlord, or his agent, he shall be liable, as is provided in sec
tion 72 of chapter 120.
Sec. i. Any contract, or consent, pursuant to which a tenant
shall enter into, or continue in possession of lands, tenements, or hereditaments, under an agreement to pay rent,
shall be a demise.
Sec. 2. Where no term is expressly limited, a demise shall
be construed to be for a year, except of houses and lots usually let for a less time.
Sec. V No demise, except it be by deed, shall be effectual
r 1 ^ -.!_
for a longer term than one year.
Sec. 4. If there be a demise for a term of one or more years,
and three months, or upwards, before the end of the term,
either the landlord do not give notice in writing to the tenant
in possession to remove, or the tenant do not give like notice
to the landlord of his intention to remove from the demised
premises, the term shall be extended for another year, for
which the tenant shall pay the rent, and all the stipulations
of the demise shall continue in force.
[Section four of this said chapter shall not be taken or held
to prescribe any time as to notice when the letting is for a lessf
time than a year ; but that when a letting is by the month, [a
month's] notice to quit shall be sufficient ; and when it is by the
week, a week's notice shall be sufficient.]
SEC 5. If the tenant, or any person coming into possession
by his permission, or by collusion with him, shall hold over
the demised premises after the end of the term, and after notice as aforesaid given either by the tenant to the landlord, or
by the landlord to the tenant, or other person at the time in
possession of the demised premises ; the tenant, or per
son, so holding over, shall, either of them, at the landlord's,
election, be liable to pay double the rent that was payable
according to the demise, to be recovered by action, or levied
by distress, in the same manner as the single rent, if the de'
mise had continued, could have been ; and in every such case
the withholding of possession shall be deemed a forcible de
tainer and may be proceeded upon as such.
ATTORNMENT.
SEC. 6. Grants of rents, of reversions, and remainders, shall
be good and effectual without attornment of the tenants ; but
if a tenant, without notice of a grant and in good faith pay to
the grantor rent in arrear, he shall have the benefit of such
payment by way of discharge from the rent.
Sec. 7. The attornment of a tenant to a stranger, unless
with the written consent of his landlord, or pursuant to a
judgment, or decree, shall be void.
REMEDIES.
Sec. 8. An action of debt shall lie for the arrears of any
_ . , _ , . . . , . . *
rent, whether in fee, in tail, or for lite, either during the con
tinuance, or after the determination of the freehold.
Sec. o,. The executors, or administrators, of a person to
whom any rent was in arrear at the time of his death, whether
such rent were in fee, in tail, for life, or other estate, shall
have the same remedy by action, or distress, for such arrears,
as the testator, or intestate, if living, could have.
Sec. io. The husband of a woman entitled to any rent in
fee simple, fee tail, for life, or other estate, shall have the same
remedy by action or distress after her decease, as during her
life, for the arrears of said rent accruing during the marriage.
Sec. ii. A person entitled to any rent for the life of
r , . . _ J _ . .
another person, may distrain for any arrears of said rent, in
the same manner after the death as during the life of such
other person.
Sec. 12. The provisions of this chapter for the recovery of
rent bv action, or for levying the same by distress, shall ex
tend to any rent arrear, whether of money, or a quantity, or
share, "of grain, or other produce, or of any thing certain, or
that can be reduced to certainty, or whether it be a rent charge
rent-seek, quit-rent, or otherwise (as well as rent accruing
upon a demise), issuing out of, or charged upon any lands, ten
ements, or hereditaments.
SEC. 13. Satisfaction for the use and occupation of lands,
tenements, or hereditaments, by permission of a person, withq^
demise by deed or contract under seal for the rent, may
be recovered in an action on the case upon assumpsit; and evi
dence of any demise without deed, or of a contract not un
der seal, for a certain rent, shall not defeat such action, but
may be used to maintain the same,
Sec. 14. ' An action of assumpsit to recover satisfaction for
the use and occupation of lands, tenements, or hereditaments,
shall lie, where the person holding the same entered into possession thereof under contract of purchase which shall be void,
or shall, before the action, have been avoided by consent of
the parties, or otherwise than by default of the vendor.
Sec. 15. When any lands, tenements, or hereditaments, are
held by demise of a person having an estate therein deter11 1 ■ r • 1 • ,
minable on a life, or any contingency, and said estate shall determine
before the end of the year, or quarter (if the rent be
payable quarterly), the rent shall be apportioned according to
the time ; and the proportion thereof for the time the same
has been growing due, up to the determination of such estate,
shall bc paid to the lessor, or his executors, or administrators,
and may be recovered by action of debt, or on the case. If,
in case of the determination of such estate before the end of
the year, or quarter, the whole rent for the year, or quarter,
shall have been paid before such determination, a just propor
tion thereof, according to the time to run after such determin
ation to the end of the year, or quarter, shall be refunded.
This section shall extend as well to a rent in kind, as to a
rent of money.
Sec. 16. Grantees of reversions and remainders in any
lands, tenements, or hereditaments let to lease, and their
-. ,.. . ,1,, ,
heirs, executors, administrators, or assigns, shall have the
same remedies, by entry, or action, or otherwise, against the
lessees, their executors, administrators, or assigns, for waste
done, or for the non-performance of any condition, covenant,
or contract, contained in the leases, as the grantors could
have.
Sec. 17. The lessees of any lands, tenements, or herditaments, for life, or years, or their executors, administrators, or
assigns, shall have the same remedies and advantages against
the grantees of the reversions and remainders in such lands,
tenements, or hereditaments, or their heirs, executors, ad
ministrators, or assigns, for non-performance of any condition,
covenant, or contract contained in the leases (except a cove
nant of warranty of title), as they could have against the
grantors, or their heirs, executors, or administrators.
Sec. 18. Rent in arrear before a grant of the reversion,
or remainder, or damages for the breach of a covenant, or
contract, committed before such grant, shall not be assignable
under the foregoing provisions.
DISTRESS.
SEC. 19. A distress will lie for any rent arrear either of
money, or a quantity or share of grain, or other produce, or'l
of any thing certain, or that can be reduced to certainty, and
whether the same be a rent accruing upon a demise for life, or
a term of one or more years, or a less time, or at will, or a
rent-charge, rent-seek, quit-rent, or otherwise, issuing out of,
or charged upon any lands, tenements, or hereditaments.
Sec. 20. The person entitled to such rent, whether the
original lessor, or an assignee, heir, executor, or administrator,
may distrain for the same, either personally, or by his bailiff.
Sec. 21. A distress may be made either during the demise,
or afterward, while the tenant, or any person coming into pos
session by, or under him, shall continue to hold the demised
premises, and the title to said premises shall remain in the
person to whom the rent accrued, or his heirs, devisees, exe
cutors, or administrators, or be in his immediate reversioner,
or remainderman.
Sec. 22. A distress may be as well of the grain, grass, and
other produce found upon the premises out of which the rent
issues, or upon which it is charged, whether growing, or sever
ed, in sheaves, stacks, or otherwise, as the horses, cattle and
other goods and chattels being upon said premises ; except
goods and chattels not the property of the tenant, but being
in his possession in the way of his trade," or upon the said
premises in the regular course of any occupation, or business,
there carried on ; which exception shall extend to horses and
carriages at a livery stable, to property of boarders in a board
ing-house, and to the beasts of a drover depastured while
passing through the county, as well as to the more obvious
cases of exemption at common law ; also except stoves not
the property of, but hired by the tenant, and beasts, not the
property of the tenant, escaping into the said premises through
defect of fences, which the tenant, or his landlord, was bound
to repair.
Sec. 23. If the tenant, either during his term, or estate, or
after the end thereof, remove his goods and chattels, or any of
them, from the said premises without payment of the rent
due, or growing due, for the said premises, and without license
from the landlord, or his agent, in writing under hand ; the
goods and chattels, so removed, unless sold fairly for a valu
able consideration and delivered to the buyer, shall be liable,
wherever found, to be distrained for said rent for forty days
after the removal ; or if the rent be not in arrear at the time
of the removal, for forty days after the rent shall become in
arrear.
Notice to the tenant to remove from the said premises shall
not be a license within this provision.
Sec. 24. Any person taking an unreasonable distress, shall
answer in damages to the party injured, to be recovered in an
action on the case.
Sec. 25. The person, or bailiff, distraining, shall either de
liver to the tenant, or leave at the mansion-house, or if there
be none, at some public place on the premises, written notice
of the property distrained and the cause of the distress.
Sec. 26. If the property distrained be not replevied within
five days after the day of such notice, the sheriff, or any con
stable for thecounty, or place, where the distress is taken, shall,
upon application, summon two judicious and impartial freeholders of said county, who, being first sworn or affirmed by
the officer summoning them, shall appraise the said property
at its true value in money, according to the best of their skill
and judgment, and shall certify their appraisement, with the
date, under their hands.
Sec. 27. If the rent be not of money, the said sheriff, or
constable, shall also summon the said appraisers and another
judicious and impartial freeholder of the county, to determine
the value of said rent in money ; and shall administer to them
respectively an oath, or affirmation, to inquire diligently con
cerning the true value in money of the rent, for which the dis
tress was taken, in arrear at the time of distraining, and faith
fully determine the same. Upon such inquiry the freeholders
shall afford reasonable opportunity to the parties to be heard,
and they shall severally have power to administer an oath, or
affirmation, to witnesses.
The said freeholders, or any two of them agreeing, shall
certify under their hands the value of the rent in arrear, ac
cording to the followingform :
Countyr, ss. Upon a distress for rent, on the demand
of , against we, the freeholders, sum
moned to determine the value of said rent in money, upon our
oath and affirmation respectively say, that, at the time of taking
said distress, there was rent in arrear from the said
, to the said , to the value of .
Witness our hands the day of , A. D., 18. —.
The value, so certified, shall not be questioned, except upon
replevin of the goods distrained.
No further certificate, either of the summoning, or the
swearing, or affirming, of the freeholders shall be necessary.
If all the freeholders be sworn, or all affirmed, the certificate
shall be adapted to the case, by omitting the words " and af
firmation" or the words " oath and."
SEC. 28. The person, or bailiff, making a distress, may suffer the property distrained to remain at large upon the prem• 1 iL •*.!_ .1 -j •
ises, or may impound the same either on the said premises, ore
in any other convenient place in the same county.
Sec. 2q. A distress shall not be removed from the county.
... , , . r , . ,. . ,. rr. J
wherein it is taken ; except, that if the premises lie in different
counties, a distress taken on any part thereof may be carried to the mansion-house, or other most public place thereon,
which shall, for all purposes, be deemed to be the place of the
taking ; and grain, or other produce, growing on any part of
such premises, shall be subject to be appraised by freeholders,
and to be sold by the sheriff, or constable, and to be replevied
by a writ of replevin directed to the sheriff, or coroner, all of
the county where the mansion-house, or other most public
place on said premises is situate, in the same manner as if
every part of the premises was in said county.
Sec. 30. The person on whose demand a distress is made,
shall have a special property in the things distrained until re
plevin, or sale thereof, so that he may take the same, wherever
found, and recover damages for carrying away, or injuring them.
SEC. 31. If any pound breach, or rescous, be made of prop
erty distrained, the party injured shall, in a special action on
the case, recover double damages and costs against the per
sons making such pound breach, or rescous, or any of them,
or against the owner of the property, if it have come to his
possession, or use.
Sec. 32. After the expiration of six days from the day of
appraising property distrained and not replevied, the sheriff,
or any constable of the county, or place, where the distress is
taken, shall, upon application, sell the same, or so much there
of as may be necessary to satisfy the rent and all costs, at pub
lic vendue, to the highest and best bidder, or bidders, first giv
ing at least six days' notice of said sale by advertisements
posted in at least five public places in the county.
Sec. 33. Any surplus of the proceeds of such sale, after sat
isfying the rent and costs, shall, without delay, be refunded
to the owner of the property, or otherwise applied according
to law.
Sec. 34. If, through mistake, or other cause, a sufficient
distress be not taken, distress may be made for the balance of
the rent, in the same manner as for the entire sum.
Sec. 35. It shall not be an objection to any officer acting in
any of the premises, that he, as bailiff, made the distress.
SEC. 36. In case of the property distrained, remaining, or
being impounded on the premises, the distrainer and every
other person shall have right to go upon said premises to view,
appraise, or purchase said property, or to take the same when
purchased ; and if grain, or other produce in the ground, be
sold, the purchaser shall have right to do all acts requisite
for saving, cultivating, gathering and taking the same.
Sec. 37. If any distress and sale be made for rent demanded
when no rent is in arrear, the person, upon whose demand
such distress is made, or his executors, or administrators, shall
pay to the owner of the property so distrained and sold, or
his executors, or administrators, double the value of said
property, to be recovered, with costs, in an action of debt, in
which a less sum than that demanded may be recovered.
Sec. 38. When a distress is taken for rent justly due, no
subsequent irregularity shall make it a trespass, or vitiate it ;
but the party injured by such irregularity, may recover the
damages sustained on occasion thereof, and no more, in a
special action on the case ; unless sufficient amends shall have
been tendered before action brought, in which case there shall
be no recovery.
Sec. 39. The levy of process of execution, attachment, or
sequestration, upon goods and chattels, shall not prevent such
goods and chattels from being taken and sold as a distress for
rent.
Sec. 40. The landlord, or person making such distress, shall,
at least six days before sale of the goods and chattels dis-1r
a
trained, give written notice of such distress, and the time and
place of such sale, to the plaintifff, or one of the plaintifffs, if
several, in every such process, or his attorney, (if such plaint
iff or attorney reside in the county), or he shall forfeit the
benefit of the foregoing section.
Sec. 41. Such distress shall not impair the levy, nor obstruct
the authority of the officer to sell the goods and chattels by virtue of the process at any time before sale thereof
pursuant to the distress ; and such distress, or a sale pursuant
to it, shall not vary the rights of the parties in respect to the
application of the proceeds of the goods levied on, so as to
give to the demand for rent any additional preference over
the other process.
Sec. 42. No distress shall remain in force more than sixty
days from the time of making it. If the property distrained
be not sold within the said sixty days, it shall, at the expiration
of that period, be discharged from the distress.
Sec:. 43. A distress without a sale, shall not satisfy the rent
for which such distress was taken ; but a second distress shall
not be taken for the said rent.
Sec. 44. In no case shall a distress be taken for rent after
the expiration of two years from its becoming in arrear.
SEC. 45. An executor, or administrator, shall not distrain for
rent in arrear to the testator, or intestate, after the expiration
of six months from the death of the testator, or intestate ; and
any other person entitled to the rent of premises, but having
no estate therein, shall not distrain for said rent after the ex
piration of six months from the time of the same becoming in
arrear.
REPLEVIN OF GOODS DISTRAINED.
Sec. 46. Before service of any writ of replevin for goods distrained,
the plaintifff, or some substantial person for him, shall,
with sufficient surety, enter into bond to the officer to whom
the writ is directed, in a penalty double the value of said prop
erty, (to be estimated by the officer serving the writ, or ifcither
party so request, to be appraised by two judicious persons
summoned and sworn, or affirmed by such officer), with con
dition according to the following form :
The condition of the above written obligation is such, that if, at whose suit against , a writ of re
plevin has been issued out of the Superior Court of the State of
Delaware, for county, returnable to term next, or
his executors, or administrators, shall prosecute said suit with
effect, and shall filly and without delay satisfy any judgment
which shall be given against the said- -, or his executors,
or administrators, in the said suit, then the said obliga
tion shall be void.
SEC. 47. The defendant in the replevin may avow, or make
cognizance generally for rent in arrear, stating to whom, for
what premises, and for what time, without other particulars.
Such avowry, or cognizance, may be entered upon the record by
way of suggestion, if in consequence of the plaintifff's being non
suit or judgment being given on demurrer, or for other cause, it
cannot be entered in the regular course of the pleadings.
Sec. 48. The jury upon trial of the action, shall find the sum
due for rent in arrear. After issue joined, the plaintifff becom
ing nonsuit shall not prevent the trial by jury.
SEC. 49. If there be judgment of nonsuit, or upon demurrer,
or otherwise, without trial by jury, the sum due for the rent
in arrear may be found either by a jury at bar, or upon a writ
of inquiry, or otherwise, as the court may order ; or the same
may be ascertained, with or without avowry, or cognizance, as
the parties shall agree.
SEC. 50. Judgment shall be given for the defendant for any
sum found, or ascertained, to be due for rent in arrear, as
debt, with costs of suit ; and like execution shall be had, as on
judgments for debt.
Sec. 51. If judgment be given for the defendant, or his ex
ecutors, or administrators, the officer, to whom the bond was
taken upon the service of the writ, shall, on request, assign
the same, under his hand and seal, in the presence of at least
one credible witness, to the person on whose demand the dis
tress was made, or his executors, or administrators. The as
signee may sue on the bond in his own name.
ATTACHMENT FOR RENT.
Sec. 52. Upon affidavit made by a landlord, or any credi
ble person for him, and filed in the office of the prothonotary,
[or any justice of the peace,] of the county wherein the de
mised premises are situated, stating the rent which his tenant is
to pay, or render, and when it will be due, and that he does on
good grounds believe that the tenant intends to remove his ef
fects from the county, or otherwise dispose of the same,
and will so remove or dispose of the same before the
rent becomes due, so as to defeat a distress for said rent,
a writ of attachment shall be issued out of said superior court,
returnable to the next term thereof, directed to the sheriff of
the county, [or out of the office of any justice of the peace of
the county, directed to any constable thereof, returnable forth
with] against ths goods and chattels, rights and credits of
such tenant and for summoning the garnishees.
Sec 53. If the tenant shall give to the landlord bond with
sufficient surety, to be approved by the officer serving the
writ, before the return thereof, or by the court at the term of
the return, [or by the justice of the peace, when the same
shall be returned to his office] to pay the rent when due, with
the costs of the attachment, the goods and garnishees shall
be discharged.
Sec. 54. If bond, as required by the foregoing section, be
not given, the court, [or justice of" the peace,] shall make an
order for the sale of the goods and chattels attached, or so
much thereof as shall be necessary to pay said rent with the
costs, and shall render judgment against every garnishee,
, 1 i- r •
summoned upon the attachment, on his answer confessing
goods, money, rights, or credits in his hands, or upon the ver
dict of a jury against him, if required to plead, as in other
proceedings bv attachment.
Sec. 55. If 'the tenant deny the demand of rent, the court
[or the justice of the peace] whether he have given bond as
aforesaid or not, shall direct an issue to be tried by a jury at
the bar of the court, [or by a reference to three judicious and
impartial citizens before the justice of the peace, one of whom
shall be chosen by the justice aforesaid, and the other two,
one each, by the plaintifff and defendant] for ascertaining
whether there be a just demand of rent and the amount
thereof. The verdict upon such issue, unless set aside by the
court [or justice of the peace] shall be conclusive.
Sec. 56. In respect to costs and touching the premises generally,
the court [or justice of the peace] may exercise equitable powers ; and if it shall consider that there was not suf
ficient ground for the attachment, the landlord shall pay the
costs.
Sec. 57. The residue of the goods, or money, after satisfying the rent and costs, shall be restored, or paid, to the tenant
without delay, or otherwise applied according to law.
Sec. 58. If a landlord, or any credible person for him shall,
in manner provided in section 52, make oath, or affirmation,
stating the rent which his tenant is to pay, or render, and
when it will be due, and that he does, on good grounds, believe
that the tenant intends to leave the State, and will depart
from the same before the rent will become due, and that there
are not goods and chattels, rights and credits of said tenant
that can be attached, sufficient to secure said rent, and that
said tenant does not intend to make provision for the payment
of the rent, proceedings shall be had against the said tenant
according to section 14 of chapter 103.
Sec. 59. The foregoing provisions respecting attachment
for rent, shall not extend to more than one year's rent.
PREFERENCE OF RENT TN CASES OF EXECUTION.
Sec 60. If goods and chattels of a tenant being upon premises
held by him by demise under a rent of money, be seized
by virtue of any process of execution, attachment, or sequestration,the
said goods and chattels shall be liable for one year's
rent of said premises, in arrear, or growing due, at the time of
said seizure, in preference to such process ; accordingly the
landlord shall be paid such rent (not exceeding one year's
rent) out of the proceeds of the sale of such goods and chat
tels, before anything shall be applicable to such process.
Sec. 61. If the landlord before the seizure of the goods and
chattels of his tenant by virtue of such process as aforesaid,
have distrained such goods and chattels for rent in arrear. such
distress, or the levying of the rent in arrear under it, shall not
preclude him from the preference given by the foregoing sec
tion.
Sec. 62. If the grain, or other produce, growing or being
upon premises held by a tenant by demise under a rent of a
quantity, or share, of grain or other produce, be seized by
virtue of any process of execution, attachment, or sequestra
tion, such grain, or produce, shall be liable for the year's rent
proper to be rendered thereout in preference to such process ;
that is to say, the Indian corn shall be liable for the quantity,
or share, of Indian corn to be rendered as rent, the wheat shall
be liable for the quantity, or share, of wheat to be rendered as
rent, and so of the other produce ; this preference extending
only to the rent for one year.
Such grain, or produce, if sold in pursuance of being so
seized, shall be sold subject to the rent, and the purchaser shall
be liable for said rent and the delivery thereof according to
the tenant's contract, and for the proper cultivation and care
of the crop.
Sec. 63. Grain, or produce, sold as aforesaid, may be dis
trained for the rent proper to be rendered thereout, when due.
in the same manner as if it had not been sold.
Sec. 64. It shall not be lawful to remove grain, or produce,
sold as aforesaid, from the demised premises, without either
paying the rent proper to be rendered thereout, or giving or
tendering, to the landlord, or person entitled to said rent, good
security to pay the same when due.
SEC. 65. In case of a removal contrary to the foregoing
section, the landlord, or person entitled to rent, may imme
diately follow and distrain the grain, or produce, removed, and
may proceed in the same manner as if the rent had been in
arrear at the time of removal.
SEC. 66. The sheriff, or other officer, who shall sell goods
and chattels of a tenant upon process of execution, attach
ment, or sequestration, shall, at least ten days before such
sale, give written notice of the time and place thereof to the
landlord, if residing in the county, and if not, to any known
agent of the landlord in the county.
OF ATTACHING RENT.
^EC- ^7- R-ent m arrear, or growing due, may be attached.
If the rent attached be not due at the return of the attach
ment, the court may render judgment upon such terms, and
make such order, as shall be deemed proper to secure the
parties and carry the attachment into effect.
Sec. 68. After attachment served, distress may be made for
the rent attached if in arrear, unless the tenant will pay it to
the sheriff to be paid into court. In case of such distress, or
of a distress made before service of the attachment, the at
tachment shall not prevent proceeding upon the distress ; but
if the distress proceed to sale, the officer selling shall pay the
money into court, where the attachment is depending, to abide
the order of the court.
Sec. 69. If goods, so distrained, be replevied, the court, in
which the attachment is, may order any assignment of the interest in the action of replevin, and of the replevin bond, that
may be necessary to give effect to the attachment, and may
enforce obedience to such order by imprisonment. Such order,
in respect to the interest in the action, shall have the effect of
an assignment ; and any person to whom said bond shall be
assigned, pursuant to such order, may sue thereon in his own
name.
OTHER MATTERS.
SEC. 70. Any tax laid upon lands, or tenements, according
to law, which shall be paid by or levied from the tenant of
such lands, or tenements, or a person occupying and having
charge of the same, shall be a set-off against the reqt or other
demand of the owner for the use, or profits, of such premises;
and if there be not rent, or other demand sufficient to cover
the sum so paid, or levied, the tenant, or other person, shall
have right to demand and recover the same from the owner,
with costs. This provision shall not affect any contract be
tween the landlord and his tenant.
Sec 71. If any person shall carry from demised premises,
of the quantity of five acres or more, any hay (other than salt
hay), straw, corn-husks, or manure, without the consent of the
owner of the premises, he shall forfeit and pay to such ownerh"
double the value of such hay, straw, corn-husks, or manure,
with costs.
Sec 72. If a tenant on whom a declaration iu ejectment is
served, shall not give notice thereof to his landlord, or the
r 1111, ■ i 11 1 1 1 1 r r • l
agent of such landlord, without delay, he shall forfeit andno
pay to such landlord the value of two year's full rent of the
premises, to be recovered with costs by action of debt.
Sec. 1. Any person who is imprisoned for debt, damages or
costs, by virtue of any process, or commitment, in a civil
action, (except process or commitment of a Court of Chan
cery), having resided in this State for one year next preceding
such imprisonment, may obtain his discharge from such im
prisonment upon petition to the Superior Court of the county
wherein he is imprisoned, and, compliance with the provisons
hereinafter contained.
SEC 2. Such petition shall set forth the imprisonment and
the cause thereof, the insolvency of the petitioner, a full and
true account.of all his real and personal estate, debts, credits,
rights, money, and effects whatsoever, with the sums and
dates of all his bonds, notes, or other securities, and a true
list, according to the best of his knowledge and belief, of all
his creditors, with the sums due to them respectively. If the
petitioner shall at any time have given, conveyed, assigned,
settled, or disposed of money, stock, or property of any kind,
upon trust, it shall be mentioned.
Sec. 3. Such petition being preferred, the court shall award
process for summoning the creditors of the petitioner to ap
pear in said court, on some certain day, and show cause, if any
they have, why he should not be discharged from imprison
ment upon assigning his property for the benefit of his credi
tors. Service of such summons upon the agent, or attorney,
of a creditor not residing in the State, shall be a valid service
as to such creditor. And service of a summons upon one of
several parties, joint plaintifffs, or joint creditors, shall be suf
ficient so far as concerns a partnership, or joint debt.
Sec. 4 Proof of the service of a summons, under the foregoing
section, shall be by the affidavit cf the person serving
the same, written upon the summons.
An appearance entered, either personally or by attorney,
shall be as effectual as proof of the service of the summons.
Sec. 5. Any creditor, or creditors, in any sum not less than
fifty dollars, the amount of which shall be proved by affidavit,
may file an allegation of fraud against the petitioner, specify
ing the supposed fraudulent transactions, to which allegation
the petitioner may plead ; and thereupon the same shall be
tried by a jury at the same term to which the petition is preferred.
Sec. 6. If an allegation of fraud be not filed, or being filed
shall be withdrawn, the court shall hear what may be alleged
and proved for or against granting the prayer of the peti
tion.
SEC. 7. Interrogatories may be proposed by any creditor toi
the petitioner, touching the causes of his insolvency, the own-1. .. , , ° , . \ _
ership, disposal and state of any property, the time of contracting
any debt, or of executing any security, deed, or other
instrument, and the consideration thereof, and any other mat
ter whicK the court may deem a proper subject of such inquiry ;
which interrogatories the petitioner shall, upon the require
ment of any creditor, fully and distinctly answer upon oath,
or affirmation ; and his answers, being reduced to writing,
shall be signed by him.
Sec. 8. Upon sufficient cause shown, the court may order
the petitioner to produce any money in his possession or con-Pr
trol, or any deeds, bonds, notes, books of account, or other
writings relating to his estate, and remand him until such or
der is complied with.
Sec. 9. If it shall appear to the court that the petitioner
has fraudulently secreted, transferred, disposed of, or removed
any goods, chattels, rights, credits, money, or other property,
or has been guilty of deception, or fraud, in contracting anyE
debt, or has not fully and truly answered the interrogatories
proposed, or has committed any fraud by which his creditors
may be injured, the petition may be dismissed and the peti
tioner remanded.
Sec. 10. If any creditor shall insist, and the court shall be
of opinion that the petitioner ought to make satisfaction to his
creditors by servitude, he shall be remanded unless he shall,
in writing under his hand indorsed on his petition, declare hisg
consent to be adjudged to serve his creditors for such wages
as the court may allow, to satisfy the debts due from him.
But this consent shall not be required of a female, or white
man.*
SEC. 11. If the petitioner shall so consent to serve his credi
tors, the court, before pronouncing the order for his discharge,
shall adjudge him to serve his creditors for a certain term,
not exceeding seven years, and for certain monthly wages, to
be determined by the court, in order to satisfy the debts due
from him to them respectively, or such balance thereof as may
remain unpaid after the proper application of his estate ; and
the creditors shall have, respectively, allrthe power of master,
or mistress, over the petitioner, to demand and have his ser
vices for the purposes aforesaid.
The court may direct that a certain portion of the wages be
applied monthly to the support of the petitioner's family, and
the balance thereof towards the debts aforesaid.
SEC. 12. The rights of creditors to the services of a person,
adjudged as aforesaid, shall stand in priority, as follows, viz :
First : Creditors by judgments and by recognizances ; and
these among themselves shall have priority according to the
dates of the judgments and recognizances respectively.
Second : Creditors by obligations and notes and instruments
under seal, or only under hand ; and these among themselves
shall have priority according to the dates of their causes of
action respectively :
Third : All other creditors, standing in priority to each oth
er according to the amount of their respective demands, the
larger being preferred to the smaller.
But any creditor, having had such person in his service for
three days without adverse claim, shall continue to .hold him
until his debt is satisfied according to the terms of the adjudi
cation, without responsibility to any other creditor.
A person adjudged shall not controvert the right of any
creditor to his immediate service, on the grounds of the prior
right of any other creditor.
SEC 13. If it shall appear to the court that there is no suffi
cient cause for remanding the petitioner, it shall order that he
be discharged from imprisonment, he first fulfilling the require
ments of the two sections next following.
Sec. 14. Before an order for his discharge, the petitioner
shall take an oath or affirmation according to the following
form, the same being first distinctly read to him that is to say :
/ , do solemnly swear (or affirn) that the account
set forth in my petition to be discharged from imprisonment, is
a full and true account of all my real andpersonal estate, legal
and equitable, in possession, reversion and remaiiidi r and of
every nature and description, including all my debts, credits,
rights, money and effects whatsoever ; and that I have not, at
any time, given, conveyed, assigned, settled, disposed of, or deliv
ered any lands, goods, money, stock, securities or other real or
personal estate, so as to expect any benefit or advantage therefrom,
or upon any trust otherzvise than as mentioned in said petition;
that I have not contracted any debt, nor executed any bond, or
security, nor done any other act, or thing; to defraud my creditors:
and that I have not intentionally, or knowingly , omittedfrom the
list set forth in my petition any one of my creditors, nor mis
stated any debt due from mc ; so help me God. (Or so I do
solemnly affirm.)
Sec. 15. The petitioner shall also, before an order for his
discharge, execute a deed of assignment, to a trustee, or trustees appointed by the court. Such deed shall be indorsed upon,
or annexed to the petition, and shall be according to the
following form, viz ;
/ , do grant and assign to , their heirs
and assigns, as joint tenants, upon trust for all my creditors, all
my lands, tenements, hereditaments, goods, chattels, rights,
credits, and real and personal estate, of every nature and de
scription, wheresoever situate, or being.
Witness my hand and seal the day of , A. D., 18—.
Signed, sealed and delivered
in open court, before
If one trustee only be appointed, the deed may be adapted
to the case.
Sec. 16. Any person imprisoned for the non-performance of
any decree for the payment of money, or costs, by virtue of
attachment, or other process, issued out of the Court of Chaneery, having resided within the State for one year next before
his imprisonment, may prefer to the Court of Chancery, held
in the county wherein he is imprisoned, a petition of the same
purport described in the second section of this chapter ; and
thereupon the said Court of chancery shall have and exercise
jurisdiction over the subject of such petition, in the same man
ner and by like proceedings, as is hereinbefore provided in the
case of a petition to the Superior Court, except as it regards
the directing of an issue.
SEC. 17. Every petition, and all proceedings, orders and adjudications
in cases of insolvency, shall be recorded by the
prothonotary, or register in chancery, in suitable books kept
for the purpose ; and to each book a correct alphabetical index
shall be kept.
PROCEEDINGS UNDER ASSIGNMENT.
Sec. 18. A deed of assignment, executed in pursuance of.
the fifteenth section, shall be deemed to be a record of the
court in which it is executed ; and a certified copy thereof
shall be competent evidence.
•\ B\
Sec. 19. Such assignment shall vest in the trustee, or trus.
tees, therein named, all the property and estate of the peti
tioner at the time of executing the same, real and personal,
legal and equitable, and of every nature and description, as
well rights, whether real or personal, credits and things in ac
tion, as property in possession.
SEC. 20. The said trustee, or trustees, shall take possession
°f al' said property and estate, except wearing apparel and the
necessary bedding of the petitioner and his family, and the
tools, or implements, of his trade or calling, not exceeding in
value in the whole, fifty dollars ; which articles, and the value
thereof, shall be ascertained by two judicious and impartial
citizens of the county wherein the petitioner resides, to be
appointed and sworn, or affirmed, to the faithful performance
of said duty by a justice of the peace of the county. The
articles, so ascertained, shall be exempt from any execution, or
legal process, against the petitioner, except distress for rent
and execution in a criminal case.
Sec. 21. If the petitioner be a tenant holding any lands, or
tenements, under rent, his goods and chattels, being on the
, . , . 1 • r • 1 • j1 •
demised premises at the time of executing the said assign
ment, shall be liable for the rent of said premises for the cur
rent, or preceding year, if such rent be not paid, but for one
year only ; and the landlord may require that such rent be
paid before the removal of the goods, or chattels, from the
demised premises.
SEC. 22. The said trustee, or trustees, or the survivors or
survivor of them, or the executors, or administrators, of such
trustee, or survivor, shall collect, recover and reduce into pos
session all the rights, whether real or personal, credits and
things in action of the petitioner ; and for that purpose may in
his or their own name or names, institute and prosecute to
judgment and execution any actions real, personal, or mixed;
and shall also convert into money all the property and estate
assigned, and for that purpose shall have full power to sell,
dispose of and convey the same, in parcels or otherwise, as
may be deemed expedient.
SEC. 23. No suit, or proceeding, of the petitioner, at law. or
in equity, shall be abated by the assignment aforesaid ; but
such suit, or proceeding, may be continued, and execution may
be issued on any judgment recovered by the petitioner, as if
no such deed of assignment had been executed ; but such suit,
proceeding, or execution, shall be for the use, or benefit, of
said trustee, or trustees, or the survivors, or survivor, of them,
or the executors, or administrators, of such trustee, or survi
vor.
Sec. 24. No release, acquittance, or receipt, made by the
petitioner after executing such deed of assignment, of any
debt, demand, right, action, suit, or cause of action, existing
at or before the time of executing said deed, shall be of any
force or effect.
SEC. 25. The net proceeds of the petitioner's estate, after
deducting just expenses of executing the trust and a reasonable commission to the trustees, shall be applied towards payrnent
of such demands against the petitioner as shall be exhib
ited to the trustees within one year after the date of the as
signment, and no others ; and if said proceeds be insufficient
to pay the whole amount of the demands, they shall be opportioned
pro rata. Any overplus, shall be returned to the petitioner,
his heirs, executors, or administrators.
SEC. 26. A demand existing at the time of executing: the
,,_. . ,,° _ i/i«i
deed of assignment, but payable at a future day (subject to the
proper discount if payable without interest), shall be admitted
in the distribution of the petitioner's estate.
Sec. 27. Controversies arising in the course of the execution
of the trust respecting any disputed demands, or claims, may
be referred, compromised, or settled, as may be deemed ex
pedient.
Sec. 28. The court may, in its discretion, require the trustee,
1 1 • 1 • 1^ r 1
or trustees, to give bond with security to the State for the
faithful execution of the trust. It may, in its discretion, remove
the trustee, or trustees, and compel an assignment of the
trust estate to others appointed in their stead. It may order
an inventory and appraisement of the trust estate and effects
to be made and returned to the court, and may require ac
counts, touching the execution of the trust, to be rendered,
and shall adjust and settle such accounts.
Any order by the court in the premises, may be enforced by
attachment and imprisonment.
effect of discharge.
Sec. 29. A person discharged from imprisonment, pursuant
to the foregoing provisions, shall not be afterward arrested,
nor imprisoned, for any debt, or demand, contracted or existing before such discharge, except debts and demands of the
United States, and also of persons who shall not have been
summoned, nor appeared. Such discharge shall have no
further effect ; and if any debt, or demand, due or existing, at
the time of such discharge, against the petitioner, shall
not be fully satisfied out of the estate and property assigned,
because of the insufficiency thereof, such debt, or any balance
thereof remaining, after a proper application of the estate and
property assigned, may be recovered and levied out of any
property, or estate, which the petitioner may acquire, or be
come entitled to, after the date of the assignment, excepting
that hereinbefore exempted from execution ; subject only to
the restriction of the next following section in the case of per
sons adjudged to serve their creditors.
Sec. 30. If the petitioner shall have been adjudged to serve
his creditors for the satisfaction of their respective debts, or of
a balance thereof after the application of the petitioner's estate, his creditors shall have no other remedy for the recovery
of such debts, or balance, except in the cases following, that
is to say ; if the petitioner, being so adjudged as aforesaid,
refuse to serve any creditor pursuant to the adjudication ; or
if any creditor, shall, within sixty days after the adjudication,
and without having had the service of the petitioner, cause his
refusal of such service to be entered upon the record of the
adjudication ; in either of said cases the creditor shall have
the same remedies for the recovery of his debt, or balance
thereof as aforesaid, as if the petitioner had not been adjudged
to serve his creditors.
The prothonotary, or register in chancery, in whose office
the record shall be, upon application of the creditor, shall enter
his refusal as aforesaid, and the same shall be signed by the
creditor. Such entry shall vacate all rights of the creditor to
demand service pursuant to the adjudication.
Sec. 31. Any person imprisoned for debt, or damages, or
costs, of a civil suit, or non-performance of a decree for the
payment of money, by virtue of original, execution, or other
process, or commitment, may prefer to the Superior Court of
the county wherein he is imprisoned, or to any judge residing
in the county in vacation, a petition stating the imprisonment
and the cause thereof, and the inability of the petitioner to
maintain himself, or his family, and praying for rejief.
SEC. 32. If, upon the hearing of such petition and reasonable
notice in writing of the time and place thereof to the party at
whose suit the petitioner is imprisoned, or his attorney, or
agent, if there be such party, attorney, or agent, within the
county, it shall appear that there is ground to apprehend that
the petitioner, or his family, in consequence of his imprison
ment, will be chargeable to the county, the said court, or
judge, shall order that the person at whose suit the petitioner
is imprisoned, shall, with sufficient surety enter into a recog
nizance to the State in the penal sum of two hundred and fifty
dollars, with condition to be void if the recognizor, his heirs,
executors, or administrators, shall keep the said county harm
less and indemnified of and from all damages and charges in
consequence of the imprisonment of the petitioner, either for
the maintenance, or through the sickness of the petitioner, or
his family ; such order with the petition shall be filed in the
office of the prothonotary in the county wherein the petitioner
is imprisoned.
If notice of such hearing, as aforesaid, cannot be given, by
reason of the fact that the party, at whose suit the petitioner
is imprisoned, resides out of the county, and has no attorney,
or agent therein, the same proceedings shall be had as if no
tice had been duly served.
Sec. 33. The prothonotary shall have authority to approve
the surety and to take the recognizance directed by such order;
which recognizance shall be joint and several.
Sec. 34. If such order be not complied with by the person
on whom it is made (or by some one of them if there be sever- i
al) within ten days after the same shall be made, the protho- S
notary shall certify the said order and the failure to comply
therewith to the sheriff, or jailer, of the county ; and thereupon
the petitioner shall be discharged from his imprisonment.
SEC. 35. The principal in any recognizance entered into un- C
der the foregoing provisions, may, at any time, cause an entry S
to be made upon the recognizance, or the record thereof, and
signed by him, to the effect that he is unwilling to continue
liable touching any further imprisonment of the person upon
whose petition the said order was made.
The prothonotary shall forthwith certify the substance of c
such order, recognizance and entry to the sheriff, or jailer, of
the county ; and the petitioner shall thereupon be discharged D
from imprisonment at the suit of the party causing such en
try to be made.
Such entry shall in no manner impair the said recognizance,
nor have any other effect than to discharge the petitioner
from further imprisonment at the suit of the party causing it
to be made.
[But any person imprisoned as aforesaid may prefer a peti- A
tion to the superior court in term time, or to any judge thereof
in vacation, setting forth that he is willing and able to give
" " c
to the said creditor good and sufficient security for the pay- j
ment of the said debt or damages or costs as aforesaid, within
a reasonable time; and if, upon the hearing of the said petition,
and reasonable notice in writing of the time and place thereof
to the party at whose suit the petitioner is imprisoned, or his
attorney, or agent, if there be such party, attorney, or agent
within the county, it shall appear that the petitioner is able to
give such security, the said court, or judge thereof in vaca
tion, shall proceed to order security to be given and taken in0
such form, and for the payment of the said debt or damages
and costs, in such time and manner as to the said court or judge
shall seem meet and proper in the case, and on such security
*be given and approved by the said court or judge, an order
shall be made for the immediate discharge of the petitioner
from said imprisonment.]
SEC. 36. A person discharged from imprisonment pursuant
to either of the two next foregoing sections, shall not be
again arrested upon the same process ; but such imprisonment
and discharge shall have no other effect : and no judgment,
debt, or demand, shall be thereby extinguished, or invalida
ted.
Sec. 37. The appearance of any person who shall be discharged
from imprisonment according to this chapter, may be
entered in any suit, or action, from process in which such per
son shall be so discharged ; and such suit, or action, may be
proceeded in on the ground of such appearance.
SEC. 38. Any proceeding, or order, under this chapter, shall
not discharge any person imprisoned by the authority of the
United States from such imprisonment, and shall not dis
charge any person from imprisonment for any other cause than
that to which such proceedings, or order, relates ; but such
person, notwithstanding such proceeding, or order, shall be
detained for such other cause, according to the nature and ef
fect thereof.
Sec. 39. The foregoing provisions for the discharge of a
person imprisoned on civil process, upon failure of the party
at whose suit such person is imprisoned to indemnify the
county as aforesaid, shall not apply to the case of a prisoner
remanded by the court upon the trial of allegations of fraud,
or for refusing his consent to serve his creditor ; nor to the
case of a white citizen of this State imprisoned by virtue of a
capias ad satisfaciendum, or for the non-performance of a de
cree for the payment of money, upon an affidavit of fraud ;
nor to the case of any person whatsoever imprisoned by virtue
of civil process, whether original, or final, or whether issuing
out of a court of law, or equity, if the plaintifff in such, process
shall, within five days after the imprisonment of such person,
file in the office of the prothonotary, or register in chancery,
issuing the process, an affidavit of fraud against the person so
imprisoned, in the same form as by law is required to be filed
before the issuing of a capias ad satisfaciendum against a
white citizen of this-State.
A person imprisoned as aforesaid, against whom such affida
vit of fraud shall be filed within five days after his imprison
ment, as above provided, shall have the same benefit of a
hearing of the specifications of fraud in such affidavit set forth
before a judge, and upon like proceedings, as in the case of an
affidavit of fraud filed before the issuing of a capias ad satis
faciendum.
Sec. 40. No proceeding under this chapter shall in any
way impair the lien of any mortgage, judgment, recognizance,
execution, nor any other lien, nor the liability of one who, as
surety, or joint debtor, or otherwise, shall be liable for a debt,
or demand, existing against the person to whom such pro
ceeding relates.
Sec. 41. If any person, to whom an oath, or affirmation,
shall be administered under this chapter, shall willfully and
falsely swear, or affirm, in any matter, such person so offend
ing, shall be deemed guilty of the crime of willful and corrupt
perjury, and shall also forfeit all benefit under this chapter,
and shall not be permitted to plead, or insist upon the same,
or to avail himself thereof in any manner whatever.
Sec. 42. In any action against any person for any thing done
pursuant to this chapter, this chapter, with the matter of justi
fication under it, may be given in evidence under the general
issue.
SEC. i. No person shall make an entry into any lands, tenements,
or hereditaments, but within twenty years next after
his right, or title, to the same, first descended, or accrued.
Sec. 2. No person shall have, or maintain any writ of right,
or action, real, personal, or mixed, for, or make any prescription,
or claim, to, or in, any lands, tenements, or heredita-ce
ments, of the seizin, or possession of him, his ancestor, or
predecessor, and declare, or allege, in any manner whatever,
any further seizin of him, his ancestor, or predecessor, but only
an actual seizin of him, his ancestor, or predecessor, of the
premises sued for, or claimed, within twenty years next before
such writ, or action.
Sec. 3. If at any time when such right of entry upon, orS
action for any lands or tenements shall first accrue, the per
son entitled to such entry, or action, shall be an infant, or a,
, . J . . . ,
married woman, insane, or imprisoned, such person, or any
one claiming from, by, or under him, may make the entry, ord
bring the action, at any time within ten years after such disability
shall be removed, notwithstanding the twenty years be
fore limited in that behalf shall have expired.
Sec. 4. If the person entitled to an entry, or action, die
under any of the disabilities aforesaid, any other person claiming
from, by, or under him, shall have the same benefit which
the person first entitled would have had, by living until the
removal of the disability.
SEC. 1. No action shall be brought upon the official recog. r ^ • rr • • • *i_J
nizance of any sheriff, or upon any administration bond, or
upon any testamentary bond, against either the principal or
sureties, after the expiration of six years from the date of
, r '
such recognizance or bond.
Sec. 2. No action shall be brought upon any guardian bond,
against either the principal or sureties, after the expiration of
three years from the determination or ceasing of the guardian
ship.
Sec. 3. No action shall be brought upon any recognizance
taken in the Orphans' Court, with condition for the payment
of the appraised value or purchase money of lands or tene
ments, against any surety in such recognizance, or the heirs,
terre-tenants, executors, or administrators, of such surety,
after the expiration of three years from the time when the
value, or money, mentioned in the condition, or the last instal
ment thereof, (when it is payable by instalments) is due.
^EC. 4. No action shall be brought upon the official obliga
tion of any State treasurer, secretary of State, county trea
surer, treasurer of the poor, coroner, register of wills, record
er of deeds, prothonotary, clerk of the peace, clerk of the
Orphans' Court, collector, or constable,' against either the
principal, or sureties, after the expiration of three years from
the accruing of the cause of such action.
Sec. 5. No action shall be brought upon the official obligation
of an escheator, against either the principal, or sureties.
after seven years from the expiration of his term of office.
Sec. 6. No action of trespass, no action of replevin, no acr . * , _ r .
tion of detinue, no action of debt not found upon a record or
specialty, no action of account, no action of assumpsit, and
no action upon the case shall be brought after the expiration
Qr t]iree ycars from the accruing of the cause of such actio" ;
subject however, to the provisions of the three next following
sections.
Sec. 7. In the case of a mutual and running account between
parties, the limitation shall not begin to run while such account
continues open and current.
Sec. 8. When the cause of action arises from a promissory
note, bill of exchange, or an acknowledgment under the
hand of the party of a subsisting demand, the action may be
commenced at any time within six years from the accruing ofS
such cause of action.
Sec. 9. When, after a recovery in ejectment, an action is
brought for mesne profits, if such action be commenced within
six months after the judgment, or if there be a writ of er-<d
ror, within six months after the affirmance of said judgment,
or other determination of the proceeding in error, the said ac
tion shall, so far as to avoid the intermediate operation of the
sixth section, be deemed a continuation of the proceeding in
ejectment; and the plaintifff shall not be debarred from recover
ing mesne profits for three years next preceding the com
mencement of the ejectment.
Sec. 10. No action of waste shall be brought after the expiration
of three years from the committing of the waste.
Sec. 1 1. No action shall be brought upon any bond given to
the president, directors and company of any bank, or to any
corporation, by any officer of such bank, or corporation, withoff
condition for his good behavior, or for the faithful discharge of
the duties of his station, or touching the execution of his of
fice, against either the principal, or sureties, after the expi
ration of two years from the accruing of the cause of such action
; and no action shall be brought, and no proceedings
shall be had upon any such bond, or upon any judgment
thereon, against either the principal or sureties, for any cause
of action accruing after the expiration of six years from the
date of such bond.
The directors, or managers, of any bank, or corporation, are
authorized and enjoined to take from each officer thereof, required
by the charter or by-laws to give bond, a new bond asy
often as may be deemed expedient, but at farthest every six
years ; and so that the date of the new bond shall not be more
than six years posterior to the date of the bond immediately
preceding.
Sec. 12. No civil action for a forfeiture upon a penal statute,
whether at the suit of the party aggrieved, or of a common
informer, or of the State, or otherwise, shall be brought after
the expiration of one year from the accruing of the cause of°
such action.
Sec. 13. If a person entitled to any action comprehended
within either of the foregoing provisions, shall have been, at
the time of the accruing of the cause of such action, under
disability of infancy, coverture, or incompetency of mind, this
chapter shall not be a bar to such action during the continuance of such disability, nor until the expiration of three years
from the removal thereof.
Sec. 14. If at the time when a cause of action accrues
against any person, lie shall be out of the State, the action
may be commenced, within the time herein limited there
for, after such person shall come into the State in such
manner that, by reasonable diligence, he may be served
with process ; and if after a cause of action shall have accrued
against any person, he shall depart from and reside out of the
State, the time of his absence until he shall have returned
into the State in manner aforesaid, shall not be taken as any
part of the time limited for the commencement of the action.
' Sec. 15. If in any action duly commenced within the time
herein limited therefore, the writ shall fail of a sufficient ser
vice or return by any unavoidable accident, or by any default,
or neglect, of the officer to whom it is committed ; or if the
writ shall be abated, or the action otherwise avoided, or de
feated, by the death of any party thereto, or for any matter of
form ; or if after a verdict of the plaintifff, the judgment shall
be arrested ; or if a judgment for the plaintifff be reversed on a
writ of error ; a new action may be commenced, for the same
cause of action, at any time within one year after the abate
ment or other determination of the original suit, or after the
reversal of the judgment therein.
If, in the original action, the benefit of this chapter be
pleaded, and a verdict upon such plea be found for the plaint
iff, such verdict shall be conclusive evidence that the original
action was commenced within the time limited therefore.
Sec. 16. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to any
debt alleged by way of set-off on the part of a defendant ; and
the time of limitation of such debt shall be computed in like
manner as if an action therefore had been commenced at the
time when the plaintifff's action commenced.
CHAPTER CXXIV.
LIMITATION OF APPEALS AND EXCEPTIONS.
Skc. I. Appeals from interlocutory decrees;
limitation.
2. But may be reviewed on final appeal.
3. Appeals from final decrees; limita
tion.
4. Saving to infants, &c.
Skc. 5. Defective records m*y be corrected
6. Kxtend to equity cases in Superior
Court .
7. Limitations of exceptions to adminis
tration accounts, &c
S. Saving to infants, &c
Sec. 1. No appeal from an interlocutory decree, or order,
Qf the chancellor, shall be received in the Court of Errors and
Appeals, unless the petition, or assignment of causes of appeal
with a certified copy of the record and papers of the case, be
filed in the office of the clerk of the said court, on or before
the first day of the term of said court next after the entering
of the said decree, or order. But the court may extend the
time, if this limitation shall not in any case allow sufficient
time for copying the record and papers.
Sec. 2. An omission to claim, or prosecute, an appeal from
an interlocutory decree, or order, as aforesaid, shall not debar
a party from making any objection to such decree, or order,
upon appeal from the final decree.
Sec. 3. No appeal from a final decree of the chancellor
shall be received in the Court of Errors and Appeals, unless
the petition, or assignment of causes of appeal, with a certi
fied copy of the record and papers of the case, shall be filed
in the office of the clerk thereof, within two years after the
signing of said decree.
SEC. 4. The limitation of the foregoing section with respect
to any person under disability of infancy, coverture, or incom
petency of mind, at the time of signing a final decree, shall
begin to run at the ceasing of such disability and not from the
time of signing said decree.
SEC. 5. No omission, or mistake, of the register in chancery
in making a copy of the record and papers of a case, shall affeet an appellant: but it shall be sufficient to file, within the
time limited, a copy certified under the hand and seal of of
fice of the register ; and any defect may be corrected accord
ing to the course, or order, of the Court of Errors and Ap
peals.
SEC. 6. The provisions of the foregoing sections shall extend to appeals from the Superior Court in cases of equity
jurisdiction ; the entering of a final decree in such case being
substitued for the signing of such decree.
Sec. 7. No exceptions to an account of an executor, administrator, or guardian, settled by the register for the county,
shall be received, or filed, in the Orphans' Court, after the ex- , r . , - . ,
piration of three years from the settlement of said account.
Sec. 8. The limitation of the foregoing section, with respect to any person under disability of infancy, coverture, or
incompetency of mind, at the time of the settlement of any
such account, shall begin to run from the ceasing of such dis
ability, and not from the time of such settlement.

