TITLE I.

FORM OF CIVIL ACTIONS.

SECT. 3. There shall be but one form of action, which shall
be called a civil action.

SECT. 4. In such action, the party complaining shall be
known as the plaintifff, and the adverse party as the defendant.

SECT. 5. There can be no feigned issues; but a question
of fact, not put in issue by the pleadings, may be tried by a
jury, upon an order for the trial, stating, distinctly and plainly,
the question of fact to be tried, and such order is the only
authority necessary for a trial.

TITLE II.

TIME OF COMMENCING CIVIL ACTIONS.

CHAPTER I. Actions for the Recovery of Real Property. —II. Actions other
than for the Recovery of Real Propertg/.——III. General Provisions.

CHAPTER I.—-ACTIONS I-‘OR rm: Rncovr-:3? or REAL Pnornnnr.

SECT. 6. An action for the recovery of the title, or the
possession of lands, tenements, or hereditaments, can only be
brought within twenty-one years after the cause of such action
shall have accrued.

SECT. 7. If a person, entitled to commence any action for
the recovery of the title or possession of any lands, tenements,
or hereditaments, be, at. the time his right or title shall first
descend, or accrue, within the age of twenty-one years, a
married woman, insane, or imprisoned, every such person
may, after the expiration of twenty-one years from the time
his right or title first descended, or accrued, bring such action
within ten years -after such disability is removed, and at no
time thereafter.

SECT. 8. An action for the forcible entry and detention, or
forcible detention only, of real property, can only be brought
within two years after the cause of such action shall have
accrued. '

CHAPTER II.—ACTION8 OTHER THAN FOR run RECOVERY or REAL
PROPERTY.

SECT. 9. Civil actions, rather than for the recovery of real
property, can only be brought within the following periods
after the cause of action shall have accrued.

SECT. 10. Within fifteen years: An action upon a specialty,
or any agreement, contract, or promise in writing.

SECT. 11. Within six years: An action upon a contract
not in writing, express or implied. An action upon a liability
created by statute, other than a forfeiture or penalty.

SECT. 12. Within four years: An action for trespass upon
real property. An action for taking, detaining, or injuring
personal property, including actions for the specific recovery
of personal property. An action for an injury to the rights of
the plaintifff not arising on contract, and not hereinafter enumerated. An action for relief on the ground of fraud; the
cause of action in such case shall be deemed to have accrued,
until the discovery of the fraud.

Snow. 13. Within one year: An action for libel, slander,
assault, battery, malicious prosecution, or false imprisonment.
An action upon a statute for the penalty or forfeiture; but
where the statute, giving such action, prescribes a different
limitation, the action may be brought within the period so
limited. °

SECT. 14. An action upon the official bond or undertaking
of an executor, administrator, guardian, sheriff, or any other
officer; or upon the bond or undertaking given in attachment,
injunction, arrest, or in any case whatever required by statute,
can only be brought within ten years after the cause of action
shall have accrued; but this section shall be subject to the
qualification in section six.

SECT. 15. An action for relief not hereinbefore provided for,
can only be brought within ten years after the cause of action
shall have accrued. _

SECT. 16. If a person, entitled to bring any action mentioned in this chapter, except for a penalty or forfeiture, be, at
the time the cause of action accrued, within the age of twentyone years, a married woman, insane, or imprisoned, every
such person shall be entitled to bring such action within the

respective times limited by this chapter, after such disability
shall be removed. ~

‘ CHAPTER III.——GENERAL Paovrsrons.

SECT. 17. An action shall be deemed commenced within
the meaning of this title, as to each defendant, at the date of
the summons, which is served on him, or on a co-defendant,
who is a joint contractor, or otherwise united in interest with
him; where service by publication is proper, the action shall
be deemed commenced at the date of the first publication,
which publication must be regularly made. .An attempt to
commence an action, shall be deemed equivalent to the commencement thereof,'within the meaning of this title, when the
party faithfully, properly, and diligently endeavors to procure
a service; but such attempt must be followed by service
within sixty days.

SECT. 18. If when a cause of action accrues against a person, he be out of the territory, or have absconded, or concealed himself, the period limited for the commencement of
the action shall not begin to run until he comes into the territory, or while he is so absconded or concealed; and if after
the cause of action accrues, he depart from- the territory, or
abscond or conceal himself,_the time of his absence or concealment shall'not be computed as any part of the period
within which the action must be brought.

SECT. 19. Where the cause of action has arisen in another
state or country between non-residents of this territory and
by the laws of the state or country where the cause of action
arose, an action cannot be maintained thereon by reason of
lapse of time, no action can be maintained thereon in this
territory.

SECT. 20. If an action be commenced within due time, and
a judgment therein for the plaintifff be reversed, or if the
plaintifff fail in such action otherwise than upon the merits,
and the time limited for the same shall have expired, the
plaintifff, or, if he die and the cause of action survive, his representatives may commence a new action within one year
after such reversal or failure.

SECT. 21. In any case, founded on contract, when any part
of the principal or interest shall have been paid, or an acknowledgment of an existing liability, debt, or claim, or any
promise to pay the same shall have been made, an action may
be brought on such case within the period .prescribed for the
same, after such payment, acknowledgment, or promise.

C

TITLE III.

PARTIES TO CIVIL ACTIONS.

Sscr. 22. Every action must be prosecuted in the name of
the real party in interest, except as otherwise provided in section twenty-five.

SECT. 23. In the case of an assignment of a thing in action, the action by the assignee shall be without prejudice to
any set-off or other defense now allowed; but this section
shall not apply to negotiable bonds, promissory notes, or bills
of exchange, transferred in good faith and upon good consideration, before due. A _

SECT. 24. An executor, administrator, guardian, trustee of
an express trust, a person with whom, or in whose name a
contract is made for the benefit of another, or a person expressly authorized by statute, may bring an action without
joining with him the person for whose benefit it is prosecuted.
Ofiicers may sue and be sued in such name as is authorized
by law, and official bonds may be sued upon in the same
way.

SECT. 25. Where a married woman is a party, her husband must be joined with her; except when the action concerns her separate property, she may sue without her husband,
by her hext friend. When the action is between herself and
her husband, she may sue or be sued alone; but in every such
action, other than for a divorce or alimony, she shall prosecute
and defend by her next friend.

SECT. 26. If a husband and wife be sued together, the wife
may defend for her own right, and if the husband neglect to

defend, she may defend for his right also.

Sm. 27. The action of an infant must be brought by his
guardian or next friend. When the action is brought by his
next friend, the court has power to dismiss it, if it is not for
the benefit of the infant; or, to substitute the guardian of the
infant, or any person as the next friend.

SECT. 28. The guardian or the next friend is liable for the
costs of the action brought by him, and, when he is insolvent,
the court may require security for costs. Either may be a
witness in anaction brought by him.

SECT. 29. The defense of an infant must be by a guardian
for the suit, who may be appointed by the court, in which the,
action is prosecuted, or by a judge thereof, or by a probate or
county judge. The appointment cannot be made until after
service of the summons in the action, as directed by this
code.

SECT. 30. The appointment may be made upon the application of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years,
and apply within twenty days after the return of the summons. If he be under the age of fourteen, or neglect to so
apply, the appointment may be made upon the application of
any friend of the infant, or on that of the plaintifff in the
action.

SECT. 31. All persons having an interest in the subject of
the action and in obtaining the relief demanded, may be
joined as plaintifffs, except as otherwise provided in this title.

SECT. 32. Any person may be made a defendant, who has
or claims an interest in the controversy adverse to the plaintifff, or who is a necessary party to a complete determination
or settlement of the question involved therein.

SECT. 33. Of the parties to the action, those who are
united in interest must be joined, as plaintifffs or defendants;
but if the consent of one who should have been joined as
plaintifff cannot be obtained, he may be made a defendant,
the reason being stated in the petition.

SECT. 34. When the question is one of a common'or general interest of many persons; or when the parties are very
numerous, and it may be impracticable to bring them all before the court, one or more may sue or defend for the benefit
of all. _

SECT. 35. Persons severally liable upon the same obligation
or instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange and
promissory notes, may, all or any of them, be included in the
same action, at the option of the plaintifff.

SECT. 36. An action does not abate by the death, marriage,
or other disability of the party, or by the transfer of any interest therein, during its pendency, if the cause of action survive or continue. In the case of the marriage of female
party, the fact being suggested on the record, the husband
may be made a party with his wife; and in the case of the
death or other disability of a party, the court may allow the
action to continue by or against his representative or successor in interest. In case of any other transfer of interest, the
action may be continued in the name of the original party;
or the court may allow the person ‘to whom the transfer is
made, to be substituted in the action. '

SECT. 37. The court may determine any controversy between parties before it, when it can be done without prejudice
to the rights of others, or by saving their rights; but when a
determination of the controversy cannot be had without the
presence of other parties, the court must order them to be
brought in.

SECT. 38. When, in an action for the recovery of real or
personal property, any person having an interest in the property, applies to be made a party, the court may order it to be
done.

Seer. 39. Upon the affidavit of a defendant before answer
in an action upon contract, or for the recovery of personal
property, that some third party, without collusion with him,
has or makes a claim to the subject of the action, and that he
is ready to pay or dispose of the same, as the court may
direct, the court may make an order for the safe keeping, or
for the payment, or deposit in court, or delivery of the subject
of the action, to such person as it may direct, and an order
requiring such third party to appear in a’ reasonable time and
maintain or relinquish his claim against the defendant. If
such third party, being served with a copy of the order, by the
sheriff or such other person as the court may direct, fail to
appear, the court may declare him barred of all claim in reBpect to the subject of the action, against the defendant
therein. If such third party appear, be shall be allowed to
make himself defendant in the action, in lieu of the original
defendant, who shall be discharged from all liability to either
Of the other parties in respect to the subject of the action,
upon his compliance with the order of court for the paymert,
deposit, or delivery thereof.

SECT. 40. The provisions of the last section shall be applicable to an action brought against a sheriff, or other officer,

for the recovery of personal property taken by him under execution, or for the proceeds of such property so taken and sold
by him; and the defendant in such action shall be entitled to
the benefit of those provisions against the party, in whose favor
execution issued, upon exhibiting to the court the process
under which he acted, with his affidavit that the property, for
the recovery of which, or its proceeds, the action is brought,
was taken under such process. '

SECT. 41. In an action against a sheriff, or other officer, for
the recovery of property taken under an execution, and replevied by the plaintifff in such action, the court may, upon application of the defendant and the party in whose favor the execution issued, permit the latter to be substituted as the defendant, security for the costs being given.

‘TITLE IV.

THE COUNTY IN WHICH ACTIONS ARE TO BE BROUGHT.

SECT. 42. Actions for the following causes, must be brought
in the county in which the subject of the action is situated,
except as provided in section forty-four: 1. For the recovery
of real property, or_ of an estate or interest therein. 2. For the
partition of real property. 3. For the sale of real property
under a mortgage, lien, or other encumbrance or charge.

SECT. 43. If the real property, the subject of the action, be
an entire tract and situated in two or more counties, or if it
consists of separate tracts situated in two or more counties,
the action may be brought in any county in which any tract,

or part thereof, is situated, unless it be an action to recover the possession thereof. And if the property be an entire tract,
situated in two or more counties, an action, to recover the
possession thereof, may be brought in either of such counties;
but if it consists of separate tracts in different counties, the
possession of such tracts must be recovered by separate actions brought in the counties where they are situated. An
action to compel the specific performance of a contract of
ale of real estate, may be broughtlin the county where the
defendants, or any of them, reside.

SECT. 44. Actions for the following causes must be brought
in the county where the cause, or some part thereof, arose:

1. An action for the recovery of a fine, forfeiture, or penalty,
imposed by a statute; except that, when it is imposed for an
offense committed on a river, or other stream of water, or road,
which is the boundary of two or more counties, the action
may be brought in any county bordering on such river, watercourse, or road, and opposite to the place where the offense
was committed. 2. An action against a public officer, for an
act done by him in virtue, or under color of, his office, or for
a neglect of official duty. 3. An act on the official bond or
undertaking of a public officer. _

SECT. 45. An action other than one of those mentioned in
the first three sections of this chapter, against a corporation
created by the laws of this territory, may be brought in the
county in which it is situated, or has its principal office or
place of business; but if such corporation be an insurance
company, the action may be brought in the county where the
cause of action, or some part thereof, arose.

SECT. 46. An action against a railroad company, or an
owner of a line of mail stages, or other coaches, for an injury
to person or property upon the road or line, or upon a liability
as a carrier, may be brought in any county, through or into
which the road or line passes.

SECT. 47. An action other than one of those mentioned in
the first three sections of this chapter, against a turnpike-road
company, may be brought in any county in which any part
of the road lies.

SECT. 48. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply in
the case of any corporation created by a law of this territory,
whose charter prescribes a place, where alone suit against
such corporation may be brought.

3301‘. 49. An action other than one of those mentioned in
the first three sections of this chapter, against a non-resident
of this territory or a foreign corporation, may be brought in
any county in which there may be property of, or debts owing
to, said defendant, or where said defendant may be found;
but if said defendant be a foreign insurance company, the
actiorrmay be brought in any county where the cause, or
some part thereof, arose. '

SHOT. 50. Every other action must be brought in the
county in which the defendant or some one of the defendants

resides, or may be summoned.

SECT. 51. In all cases in vvhich it shall be made to appear

by affidavit to the satisfaction of the court, that a fair

and impartihl trial cannot be had in the county where the
suit is pending, the court may change the place of trial to
some adjoining county, wherein such impartial trial can be
had; but if the objection shall be against all the counties of
the district, then to the nearest county in the adjoining
district. '

TITLE V.

COMMENCEMENT OF A CIVIL ACTION.

CHAPTER I. Manner of commencing Civil Actions.—II. Services of
Summons.

CHAPTER I.——MANNER or COMMENCING Crvn. Acrroxs.

SEGT. 52. A civil action must be commenced by filing in
the office of the clerk of the proper court a petition, and
causing a summons to be issued thereon.

SECT. 53. The plaintifff shall also file, with the clerk of the

court, a precipe, stating the names of the parties to the action,
and demanding that a summons issue thereon.

SECT. 54. The summons shall be issued by the clerk, shall
be under the seal of the court from which the same shall
issue, and shall be signed by the clerk. Its style shall be,
“The Territory of Dakota, county,” and it shall be
dated the day it is issued. It shall be directed to the sheriff
of the county, and command him to notify the defendant or
defendants named therein, that he or they have been sued
and must answer the petition filed by the plaintifff, giving his
name, at the time stated therein, or the petition will be taken
as true, and judgment rendered accordingly. And where the
action is for the recovery of money only, there shall be indorsed on the writ the amount to be furnished in the precipe,
for which, with interest, judgment will be taken, if the defendant fail to answer. If the defendant fail to appear, judgment shall not be rendered for a larger amount and the
costs.

SECT. 55. Where the action is rightly brought in any
county, according to the provisions of title four, a summons

shall be issued to any other county, against any one or more
of the defendants, at the plaintifff ’s request.

SECT. 56. Where the time for bringing parties into court is ‘

not fixed by statute, the summons shall be returnable on the‘
first day of the next term after the day of its date. It shall
state the day of the month on which it is returnable.
. SECT. 57. When a writ is returned “not summoned,” other ,
writs may be issued until the defendant or defendants shall’
be summoned ; and when defendants reside in different
counties, writs may be issued to such counties at the same
time.

CHAPTER II.-—SERVICE or-* SUMMONS.—ACTUAL SERVICE.

SEc'r. 58. The summons shall be served by the officer to
whom it is directed, who shall indorse on the original writ
the time and manner of service. It may also be served by
any person not a party to the action, appointed by the officer
to whom it is directed. The authority of such person shall
be indorsed on the writ. When the writ is served by a
person appointed by the oHicer to whom it is directed, or
when the service is made out of this territory, the return shall
be verified by oath or affirmation.

SEc'r. 59. The service shall be by delivering a copy of the
summons to the defendant personally, or by leaving one at
his usual place of residence, at any time before the return
dav.

SECT. 60. In all cases the return must state the time and
manner of service. _

SECT. 61. The officer to whom the summons is directed
must return the same at the time therein stated.

-8301‘. 62. An acknowledgment on the back of the summons, or the voluntary appearance of a defendant, is equivalent to a service.”

Sum‘. 63. A summons against a corporation may be served
upon the president, mayor, chairman of the board of directors

. or trustees, or other chief officer; or, if its chief officer is not

found ‘in the county, upon its cashier, treasurer, secretary,

clak, or managing agent; or, if none of the aforesaid officers

can be found, by a copy left at the office or last usual place
‘of business pf'_such corporation.

SECT. 64. Where the defendant is an incorporated insurance commny, and the action is brought in a county in which
there is an agency thereof, the service may be upon the chief
officer of such agency. ‘

SECT. 65. Where the defendant is a foreign corporation,
having a managing agent in this territory, the service may be
upon such agent; _

SECT. 66. When-the defendant is a minor under the age
of fourteen years, the service must be upon him, and upon
his guardian or father; or, if neither of these can be found,
then upon his mother, or the person having the care or control of the infant, or with whom he lives. If neither of these
can be found, or if the minor be more than fourteen years of
age, service on him alone shall be sufficient. The manner of
service may be the same as in the case of adults.

CON STRUCTIVE SERVICE.

SECT. 67. Service may be made by publication in either of
the following cases: In actions brought under the fortysecond and forty-third sections of this code, where any or all
of the defendants reside out -of the territory. In actions
brought to éstablish or set aside a Will, where any or all of
the defendants reside out of the territory. In actions brought
against a non-resident of this territory, or a foreign corporation, having in this territory property or debts owing to them,
sought to be taken by any of the provisional remedies, or to
be appropriated in any Way. In actions which relate to, or
the subject of which is, real or personal property in this
territory, where any defendant has or claims a lien or interest,
actual or contingent therein, or the relief demanded consists
Wholly or partially in excluding him from’ any interest therein,
and such defendant is a non-resident of the territory or a
foreign corporation. And in all actions where the defendant,
being a resident of the territory, has departed therefrom, or
from the county of his residence, with intent to delay or
defraud his creditors, or to avoid the service of a summons,
or keeps himself concealed therein with like intent.

SECT. 68. Before the service can be made by publication,
an affidavit must be filed, that service of a summons cannot
be made within this territory, on the defendant or defendants, to be served by publication, and that the case is one of

those mentioned in the preceding section. When such affidavit is filed, the party may proceed to make service by publication.

SECT. 69. The publication must be made four consecutive
weeks, in some newspaper printed in the county where the
petition is filed, if there be any printed in such county; and
if there be not, in some newspaper printed in this territory of

general circulation in that county. It must contain a summary statement of the object and prayer of the petition,
mention the court wherein it is filed, and notify the person or
persons thus to be served, when they are required to answer.

Seer. 70. Service by publication shall be deemed complete,
when it shall have been made in the manner and for the time
prescribed in the preceding section; and such service shall be
proved by the affidavit of the printer, or his foreman or principal clerk, or other person knowing the same.

SECT. 71. In all cases where service may be made by publication, personal service .of a copy of the summons _and
complaint may be made out of the territory.

SECT. 72. A party against whom a judgment or order has

been rendered, without other service than by publication in a
newspaper, may, at any time within five years after the date
of the judgment or order, have the same opened, and be let
in to defend. Before the judgment or order shall be opened,
the applicant shall give notice to the adverse party of his
intentions to make such an application, and shall file a full
answer to the petition, pay all costs, if the court require them
to be paid, and make it appear to the satisfaction of the
court, by affidavit, that during the pendency of the action, he
had no actual notice thereof, in time to appear in court and
make his defense; but the title to any property, the subject
of the judgment or order sought to be opened, which, by it,
or in consequence of it, shall have passed to a purchaser in
good faith, shall not be affected by any proceeding under this
section, nor shall they affect the title of any property sold
before judgment under an attachment. The adverse party,
on the hearing . of an application to open a judgment or
order, as provided by this section, shall be allowed to present
counter affidavits, to show that during the pendency of the
action, the applicant had notice thereof, in time to appear in
court and make his defense.

SECT. 73. In actions where it shall be necessary to make
the heirs or devisees of any deceased person defendants, and
it shall appear by the affidavit of the plaintifff annexed to his
petition, that the names of such heirs or devisees, or any of
them, and their residence, are unknown to the plaintifff, proceedings may be had against such'unknown heirs or devisees,
without naming them, and the court shall make such order
respecting service, as may be deemed proper; if service by
publication be ordered, the publication shall not be less than
four weeks.

SECT. 74. Where the action is against two or more defendants, and one or more shall have been served, but not all
of them, the plaintifff may proceed as follows: 1. If the
action be against defendants jointly indebted, upon contract,
he may proceed against the defendants served, unless the
court otherwise direct. 2. If the action be against defendants
severally liable, he may, without prejudice to his rights against
those not served, proceed against the defendants served in the
same manner as if they were the only deQndants.

SECT. 75. When the summons has been served or publication made, the action is pending, so as to charge third persons
with notice of its pendency, and while pending, no interest
can be acquired by third persons in the subject-matter thereof,
as against the plaintifff ’s title.

SECT. 76. When any part of the real property, the subjectmatter of an action, is situated in any other county or counties than the one in which the action is brought, a certified
copy of the judgment in such action must be recorded in the
register’s office of such other county or counties, before it
shall operate therein as a notice, so as to charge third persons
as provided in the preceding section. It shall operate as such
notice, without record, in the county where it is rendered;
but this section shall not apply to actions or proceedings
under any statute now in force, which does not require such
record.

' TITLE VI.

JOINDER IN ACTIONS.

SEOT. '77. The plaintifff may unite several causes of action
in the same petition, when they are included in either one of

the following classes: 1. The same transaction or transactions connected with the same subject of action. 2. Contracts, express or implied. 3. Injuries, with or withoutforce,
to person and property, or either. 4. Injuries to character.
5.- Claims to recover the possession of personal property, with
or without damages for the withholding thereof. 6. Claims
to recover real property, with or without damages for the
withholding thereof, and the rents and profits of the same.
7. Claims against a trustee, by virtue of a contract, or by
operation of law.

Sscr. 78. The causes of action so united, must aflect all
the parties to the action, and not require different places of
trial.

TITLE VII.

PLEADINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

CHAPTER I. Pleading: in General.-—II. The Petition.—III. Dcmurrer.
—IV. .4nswer.—V2 Reply.-—VI. General Rules of Pleading.—VlI.
lfstakes in Pleading and Amendments.

CHAPTER I.—PLEADINGS IN GENERAL.

S1301‘. 79. The pleadings are the written statements by the
parties of the facts constituting their respective claims and
defenses.

SECT. 80. The forms of pleading in civil actions in courts
of record, and the rules by which their sufficiency may be
determined, are those prescribed by this code.

SECT. 81. The only pleadings allowed, are : 1. The petition
by the plaintifff. 2. The answer or demurrer by the defendant. 3. The demurrer or reply by the plaintifff.

CHAPTER II.—THE PETITION.

Sam. 82. The petition must contain: 1. The name of the‘

court and the county in which the action is brought, and the
names of‘ the parties, plaintifff and defendant, followed by the
Word “Petition.” 2. A statement of the facts constituting
the cause of action, in ordinary and concise language, and
without repetition. 3. A demand of the relief to which the

party supposes himself entitled. If the recovery of money
he demanded, the amount thereof shall be stated; and if interest thereon be claimed, the time from which interest is to
be computed shall also be stated.

SECT. 83. Where the petition contains more than one
cause of action, each shall be separately stated and numbered.

I

CHAPTER III. — DEMURRER.

SECT. 84. The defendant may demur to the petition only
when it appears on its face, either: 1. That the court has no
jurisdiction of the person of the defendant, or the subject of
«the action. 2. That the plaintifff has not legal capacity to
sue. 3. That there is another action pending between the
same parties for the same cause. 4. That there is a defect
of parties, plaintifff or defendant. 5. That several causes of
action are improperly joined. 6. That the petition does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.

SECT. 85. The demurrer shall specify distinctly the grounds
of objection to the petition. Unless it do so, it shall be regarded as objecting only, that the petition does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action.

SECT. 86. When any of the defects enumerated in section
{eighty-four, do not appear upon the face of the petition, the
objection may be taken by answer; and if no objection be
taken either by demurrer or answer, the defendant shall be
deemed to have waived the same, except only the objection to
the jurisdiction of the court, and that the petition does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.

SECT. 87. When a demurrer is sustained on the ground of
»misjoinder of several causes of action, the court, on motion
of the plaintifff, shall allow him, with or without costs, in its
discretion, to file several petitions, each including such of
said causes of action as might have been joined; and an action shall be docketed for each of said petitions, and the same
shall he proceeded in without further service.

SECT. 88. The defendant may demur to one or more of the
several causes of action stated in the petition, and answer as
to the residue.

CHAPTER IV. — ANSWER.

Sscr. 89. The answer shall contain: 1. A general or spe-‘
cific denial of each material allegation of the petition controvetted by the defendant. 2. A statement of any new matter
constituting a defense, counterclaim, or set-off in ordinary
and concise language, and without repetition.

SECT. 90. The defendant may set forth in his answer, as
many grounds of defense, counterclaim, and set-off as he
may have. Each must be separately stated and numbered.
and they must refer in an intelligible manner to the cause of
action which they are intended to answer.

SECT. 91. The counterclaim, mentioned in the last section,
must be one existing in favor of a defendant and against a
plaintifff, between whom a several judgment might be had in
the action, and arising out of the contract or transaction set
forth in the petition as the foundation of the plaintifff’s claim,
or connected with the subject of the action.

SECT. 92. If the defendant omit to set up the counter
claim or set-off, he cannot recover costs against the plaintifff
on any subsequent action thereon; but this section shall not
apply to causes of action which are stricken out of, or withdrawn from the answer, as provided in sections ninety-three
and one hundred and sixteen.

SECT. 93. When it appears that a new party is necessary
to a final decision upon the counterclaim, the court may
either permit the new party to be made by a summons, to
reply to the counterclaim, or may direct the counterclaim to
be stricken out of the answer, and made the subject of a
separate action.

SECT. 94. A set-off can only be pleaded in an action
founded on contract, and must be a cause of action arising
upon contract, or ascertained by the decision of the court.

8201‘. 95. When it appears that a new party is necessary
to a final decision upon the set-off, the court shall permit the
new party to be made, if it also appear that, owing to the insolvency or non-residence of the plaintifff, or other cause, the
defendant will be in danger of losing his claim, unless permitted to use it as a set-off.

81301:. 96. When cross demands have existed between persons under such circumstances, that if one had brought an

action against the other, a counterclaim or set-off could have

been set up, neither can be deprived of the benefit thereof, by
the assignment or death of the other, but the two demands
must be deemed compensated, so far ‘as they equal each
other. .

SECT. 97. The guardian of an infant or person of an unsound mind, or attorney for a person in prison, shall deny in
the answer all material allegations of the petition prejudicial
to such defendant.

CHAPTER V. — REPLY.

SECT. 98. There shall be no reply, except upon the allegation of a counterclaim or set-off in the answer.

SECT. 99. When the answer contains new matter, constituting a counterclaim or set-off, the plaintifff may reply to such
new matter, denying generally or specifically each allegation
controverted by him; and he may allege, in ordinary and concise language and without repetition, any new matter not
inconsistent with the petition, constituting a defense to such
new matter in the answer; or he may demur to the same for
insufficiency, stating in his demurrer the grounds thereof; and
he may demur to one or more of such defenses set up in the
answer, and reply to the residue.

CHAPTER VI.—GENE1zAL RULES or PLEADING.

SECT. 100. The answer or the demurrer by the defendant,
and the reply or demurrer by the plaintifff, shall be filed within
such times as may be required by rules to be adopted by the
court in which the action is pending.

SECT. 101. The court or the judge thereof in vacation, for
good cause shown, may extend the time for filing an answer
or reply, upon such terms as may be just. - '

SECT. 102. Every pleading in a court of record must be
subscribed by the party or his attorney.

SECT. 103. Every pleading of fact must be verified by the
affidavit of the party, his agent or attorney. A pleading verified as herein required shall not be used against a party in
any criminal prosecution or action or proceeding for a penalty

or forfeiture, as proof of a fact admitted or alleged in such
pleading; and such verification shall not make other or greater
proof necessary on the side of the adverse party.

Snot. 104. The verification mentioned in the last section]
shall not be required to the answer of a guardian defending
for an infant or person of unsound mind, or a person imprisoned; nor in any,case where the admission of the truth of a
fact stated in the pleading might subject the party to a criminal or penal prosecution.

Sscr. 105. If there be several persons united in interest and .
pleading together, ‘the affidavit may be made by any one of ‘
such parties.

SECT. 106. The affidavit shall be sufficient if it state that
the atiiant believes the facts stated in the pleading to be true.

SECT. 107. In all cases where the party pleading is a nonresident of the county in which the action is brought, or if he
shall be absent from the county where the pleading is filed,
an affidavit made before filing the pleading, stating the substance of the facts afterwards inserted in the pleading, shall
be a su$cient verification. Such affidavit shall be filed with
the pleading intended to be verified thereby.

S201. 108. The affidavit verifying pleadings may be made
before any person before whom a deposition might be taken,
and must be signed by the party making the same; and the
officer before whom the same was taken, shall certify that it
was sworn to or atiirmed before him, and signed in his presence. The certificate of such officer, signed officially by him,
shall be evidence that the affidavit was duly made, that the
name of the officer was written by himself, and that he was
such officer.

SECT. 109. The verification of the pleading does not apply
to the amount claimed, except in actions founded on contracts
express or implied, for the payment of money only.

SECT. 110. When the affidavit is made by the agent or
attorney, it must set forth the reason why it is not made by
the party himself. It can be made by the agent or attorney
only. 1. When the facts are within the personal knowledge
of the agent or attorney. 2. VV_hen the plaintifff is an infant,
or of unsound mind, or imprisoned. 3. When the pleading
to be verified is founded upon a written instrument for the
payment of money only, and such instrument is in the possession of the agent or attorney. 4. When the party is not a
resident of or is absent from the county.

SECT. 111. In the construction of any pleading, for the
purpose of determining its effects, its allegations shall be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.

SECT. 112. All fictions in pleading are abolished.

SECT. 113. The title of a cause shall not be changed in
any of its stages.

SECT. 114. If the action, counterclaim or set-off be founded
on an account, or on a note, bill, or other written instrument, as evidence of indebtedness, a copy thereof must be
attached to and filed with the pleading, excepting in actions
founded upon notes issued to circulate as money. If not so
attached and filed, the reason thereof must be shown in the
pleading.

SECT. 115. If redundant, scandalous, or irrelevant matter
be inserted in any pleading, it may be stricken out on motion
of the party prejudiced thereby. And when the allegations
of a pleading are so indefinite and uncertain that the precise
nature of the charge or defense is not apparent, the court
may require the pleading to be made definite and certain by
amendment.

SECT. 116. The court, at any time before the final submission of the case, on motion of the defendant, may allow a
counterclaim or set-off, set up in the answer, to be withdrawn, and the same may become the subject of another
action. On motion of either party, to be made at the time
such counterclaim or set-off is withdrawn, an action on the
same shall be docketed and proceeded in as in like cases after
process served; and the court shall direct the time and
manner of pleading therein. If an action be not,so docketed, it may afterwards be commenced in the ordinary way.

SECT. 117. In pleading a judgment or other determination
of a court or officer of special jurisdiction, it shall be sufficient to state that such judgment or determination was duly
given or made. If . such allegation be controverted, the party
pleading must establish, on the trial, the facts conferring jurisdiction.

SECT. 118. In pleading the performance of conditions precedent in a contract, it shall be sufficient to state, that the

party duly performed all the conditions on his part; and if
such allegation be controverted, the party pleading must establish, on the trial, the facts showing such performance. '

SI-:c'r. 119. In an action, counterclaim or set-off, founded
upon an account, promissory note, bill of exchange, or other
instrument, for the unconditional payment of moneyonly, it
shall be sufficient for the party to give a copy of the account
or instrument, with all credits and indorsements thereon, and
to state that there is due to him on such account or instrument, from the adverse party, a specified sum, which he
claims with interest. When others than the makers of a.‘
promissory note, or the acceptors of a bill of exchange, are
parties in the action, it shall be necessary to state also the
kind of liabiity of the several parties, and the facts, as they
may be, which fix their liability.

S301‘. 120. In pleading a private statute, or a right derived
therefrom, it shall be sufiicient to refer to such statute by its
title and the day of its passage, and the court shall thereupon
take judicial notice thereof.

S301‘. 121. In an action for a libel or slander, it shall be
sufiieient to state generally, that the defamatory matter was
published or spoken of the plaintifff, and if the allegation be
denied, the plaintifff must prove on the trial, the facts, showing that the defamatory matter was published or spoken of
him. ‘

Seer. 122. In the actions mentioned in the last section,
the defendant may allege the truth of the matter charged as
defamatory, and may prove the same, and any mitigating circumstanees to reduce the amount of damages, or he may
prove either.

SECT. 123. In an action for the recovery of real property, it,
shall be described with sufficient certainty, as will enable an
officer holding an execution to identify it.

SECT. 124. Every material allegation of the petition not
controverted by the answer, and every material allegation of
new matter in the answer, constituting a counterclaim or
set-oh’, not controverted by the reply, shall, for the purposes of
theaction, be taken as true; but the allegation of new matter in the answer, not relating to a counterclaim or set-off, or
of new matter in reply, shall be deemed to be controverted
by the adverse party, as upon a direct denial or avoidance, as

the case may require. Allegations of value, or of amount.of
damage, shall not be considered as true, by failure to controvert them.

SECT. 125. A material allegation in a pleading, is one essential to the claim or defense, which could not be stricken
from the pleading, without leaving it insufficient.

SECT. 126. Neither presumptions of law, nor matters of
which judicial notice is taken, need be stated in the pleading.

SECT. 127. If an original pleading be lost, or withheld by
any person, the court may allow a copy thereof to be substituted.

CHAPTER VII.——Mrs'rAx1=:s IN PLEADING AND Ajnzxnura-..\"rs.

SECT. 128. No variance between the allegation in pleading
and the proof, is to be deemed material, unless it have actually
misled the adverse party to his prejudice, in maintaining his
action or defense upon the merits. Whenever it is alleged,
that a party has been so misled, that fact must be proved to
the satisfaction of the court, and it must also be shown in
what respect he has been misled; and thereupon the court

may order the pleading to be amended, upon such terms as _

may be just.

SECT. 129. When the variance is not material, as provided
in the last section, the court may direct the fact to be‘ found
according to the evidence, and may order an immediate
amendment without costs.

SECT. 130. When, however, the allegation of the claim or
defense, to which the proof is directed, is unproved, not in
some particular, or particulars only, but in its general scope
and meaning, it is not to be deemed a case of variance within
the last two sections, but a failure of proof.

SECT. 131. The plaintifff may amend his petition without
leave, at any time before the answer is filed, without prejudice
to the proceeding; but notice of such amendment shall be
served upon.the defendant, or his attorney, and the defendant
shall have the same time to answer or demur thereto, as to
the original petition.

SI-:c'r. 132. At any time within ten days after a demurrer
is filed, the adverse party may amend, of course, on payment
of costs since filing the defective pleading. Notice of filing

an amended pleading, shall be forthwith served upon the other
party, who shall have the same time thereafter to answer, or
reply thereto, as to an original pleading.

SECT. 133. Upon a demurrer being overruled, the party

who demurred may answer or reply, if the court be satisfied;

that he has a meritorious claim or defense, and did not demur
for delay.

SECT. 134. The court may, before judgment, in further-4

ance of justice, and on such terms as may be proper, amend
any pleading, process, or proceeding, by adding or striking
out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the
name of a party, or mistake in any other respect, or by inserting other allegations material to the case, or when the
amendment does not change substantially the claim or defense, by conforming the pleading or proceeding to the facts
proved. And whenever any proceeding taken by a party fails
to conform, in any respect, to the provisions of this code, the
court may permit the same to be made conformable thereto,
by amendment.

S301‘. 135. i The court, in every stage of an action, must
disregard any error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings,
which does 11ot affect the substantial rights of the adverse
party; and no judgment shall be reversed or affected by
reason of such error or defect.

S801‘. 136. If the demurrer bepsustained, the adverse party
may amend, if the defect can be remedied by way of amendment, with or without cost, as the court in its discretion shall
direct.

S301‘. 137. When either party shall amend any pleading
or proceeding, and the court shall be satisfied by aliidavit, or
otherwise, that the adverse party could not be ready for trial
in consequence thereof, a continuance may be granted to
some day in term, or to another term of the court.

SECT. 138. When the plaintifff shall be ignorant of the
name of a defendant, such defendant may be designated in
any pleading or proceeding by any name and description;
and when his true name is discovered, the pleading or pro-_
ceeding may be amended accordingly. The plaintifff in such
case must state, in the verification of his petition, that he
could not discover the true name, and the summons must

contain the words, “real name unknown,” and a copy thereof
must be served personally upon the defendant.
SECT. 139. Either party may be allowed, on notice, and on

such terms as to costs as the court may prescribe, to ‘file a,

supplemental petition, answer, or reply, alleging facts material
to the case, occurring after the former petition, answer or
reply.

SECT. 140. Whenever two or more actions are pending in
the same court, which might have been joined, the defendant
may, on motion and notice to the adverse party, require him
to show cause why the same shall not be consolidated; and
if no such cause be shown, the said several actions shall be
consolidated.

SECT. 141. The order for consolidation may be made by

the court, or by a judge thereof, in vacation.
SECT. 142. ' ' ‘ SECT. 143. ' ' ' Smcr. 144. ' ' ’ SECT.

145. * ‘ " SECT. 146. ’ ' “ SECT. 147. ' ' ‘ SECT. 148. ' " '
Srzcr. 149. ' ‘ ' Sscr. 150. ‘ " ' SECT. 151. ‘ "‘ ' SECT. 152.
' ‘ " SECT. 153. "‘ " " SECT. 154. ‘ " ‘ SECT. 155. " ' " SECT.
156. " * " Sscr. 157. " “ ' Sscr. 158. ‘ " ‘ SECT. 159. " ' ‘
SECT. 160. “ ' ' SECT. 161. " “ ‘ SECT. 162. " ' ' SECT. 163.
" ’ " SECT. 164. " “ " SECT. 165. " ’ " Sscr. 166. ‘ ' "’ SECT.
167. " ' ' SECT. 168. ‘ ' " SECT. 169. " ' " SECT. 170. " ' '

[TITLE VIII.]

CHAPTER II.—Rm>LEvrN or Pnomanrr.

SECT. 171. The plaintifff in an action to recover the possession of specific personal property, may, at the commencement of the suit, or at any time before answer, claim the
immediate delivery of such property, as provided in this
chapter.

SECT. 172. An order for the delivery of property to the
plaintifff, shall be made by the clerk of the court in which the
action is brought, when there is filed in his office an affidavit
of the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, showing: 1.‘ A description of the property claimed. 2. That the plaintifff is the
owner of the property or has a special ownership or interest
therein, stating the facts in relation thereto, and that he is

entitled to the immediate possession of the property. 3.
That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant.
4. That it was not taken in execution or any order or judgment against said plaintifff, or for the payment of any tax,
fine, or amercemenj: assessed against him, or by virtue of an
order of delivery issued under this .chapter, or any other
mesne or final process issued against the plaintifff.

SECT. 173. The order for the delivery of the property to
the plaintifff shall be addressed and delivered to the sheriff.
It shall state the names of the parties, the court in which the
‘action is brought, and command the sheriff to take the property, describing it, and deliver it to the plaintifff, and to make
return. of the order on a day to be named therein. 1

SECT. 174. The return day of the order of delivery, when
issued at the commencement of the suit, shall be the same as
that of the summons; when issued afterwards, it shall be
twenty days after it issued.

S301‘. 175. The sheriff shall execute the order by taking
the property therein mentioned. He shall also deliver a copy
of the order to the person charged with the unlawful detention of the property, or leave such copy at his usual place of
residence.

SECT. 176. The sheriff or other officer shall not deliver to
the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, the property so taken,
until there has been executed by one or more sufficient sureties of the plaintifff, a written undertaking to the defendant, in
at least double the value of the property taken, to the effect
that the plaintifff shall duly prosecute the action and pay all
costs and damages which may be awarded against him.
The undertaking shall be returned with the order.

S301‘. 177. For the purpose of fixing the amount of the,
undertaking, the value of the property taken shall be ascertained by the oath of two or more responsible persons, whom
the sheriff or other officer shall swear truly to assess the value
thereof.

S301‘. 178. If the undertaking, required by section one‘
hundred and seventy-six, be not given within twenty-four
hours from the «taking of the property ‘under said order, the
sheriff or other officer shall return the property to the defendant. And if the sheriff or other officer deliver any
property so taken to the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, or

V

keep the same from the defendant, without taking such
security within the time aforesaid, or if he take insufficient
security, he shall be liable to the defendant in damages.

SECT. 179. The defendant may, within twenty-four hours
from the time the undertaking, referred ,to in the preceding
section, is given by the plaintifff, give notice to the sheriff that
he excepts the sufficiency of the sureties. If he fail to do so,
he must be deemed to have waived all objections to them.
When the defendant excepts, the sureties must justify upon
notice, as bail on arrest. The sheriff, or other officer, shall be
responsible for the sufficiency of the sureties, until the objection to them is waived as above provided, or until they justify.
The property shall be delivered to the plaintifff , wlien the
undertaking, required by section one hundred and seventysix, has been given.

SECT. 180. If the property has been delivered to the plaintifff and judgment be rendered against him on demurrer, or if

be otherwise fail to prosecute his action to final judgment,
the court shall, on application of the defendant or his attorney, impannel a jury to inquire into the right of property and
right of possession of the defendant to the property taken.
If the jury shall be satisfied that said property was the property of the defendant, at the commencement of the action,
or if they shall find that the defendant was entitled to the
possession only of the same at such time, then, and in either
case, they shall assess such damages for the defendant as are
right and proper; for which, with costs of suit, the court shall
render judgment for the defendant.

SECT. 181. In all cases when the property has been delivered to the plaintifff, where the jury shall find upon issue
joined for the defendant, they shall also find whether the

defendant had the right of property, or the right of possession only, at the commencement of the suit; and if they find
either in his favor, they shall assess such damages as they
think right and proper for the defendant; for which, with
costs of 1 suit, the court shall render judgment for the defendant.
S301‘. 182. In all ‘cases when the property has been delivered to the plaintifff, where the jury shall find for the plaintifff,
on an issue joined, or on inquiry of damages upon a judgment by default, they shall assess adequate damages to the

plaintifff for the illegal detention of the property, for which,
with costs of suit, the court shall render judgment for defendant.

SI-:c'r. 183. When the property claimed has not been taken,
or has been returned to the defendant by the sheriff, for want
of the undertaking required by section one hundred and
seventy-six, the action may proceed as one for damages only,
and the plaintifff shall be. entitled to such damages as are
right and proper; but if the property be returned for want
of the undertaking required by section one hundred and
seventy-six, the plaintifff shall pay all costs made by taking
the same. - - S301‘. 184. An order may be directed to any other county
than the one in which the action is brought, for the delivery
of the property claimed. Several orders may issue at the
same time, or successively, at the option of the plaintifff; but
only one of them shall be taxed in the costs, unless otherwise
ordered by the court.

SECT. 185. The sheriff or other officer in the execution of
the order of delivery, may break open any building or enclosure, in which the property claimed, or any part thereof, is
concealed; but not until he has been refused an entrance into
said building or enclosure, and the delivery of the property,
after having demanded the same.

SECT. 186. No suit shall be instituted on the undertaking
given under section one hundred -and seventy-six, before an
execution issued on a judgment in favor of the defendant in
the action shall have been returned, that sufficient property,
whereon to levy and make the amount of such judgment, cannot be found in the county.

SECT. 187. Any order for the delivery of property issued
under section one hundred and seventy-two, without the affidavit required thereby, shall be set aside at the cost of the
clerk issuing the same, and such clerk, as well as the plaintifff,
shall also be liable in damages to the party injured.

CHAPTER III. A'1"rAcnMr:N'r.—Article I. General Attachment.—II.
Attachment in Certain Actions.

AR'I‘I(iLE 1. Gsxmu. A'r1*AcnMm~rr.—Subdivision 1. Grounds of Attachment.—
2. How Attachment ob(ained.—3. Execution and RetumtJzereqf.—4. Disposition
of Attached Pr0pertg.—5. Proceedings upon Attachment.—6. General ProSUBDIVISION 1.— Grounds of Attachment.

SECT. 188. The plaintifff, in a civil action for the recovery
of money, may, at or after the commencement thereof, have
an attachment against the property of the defendant and
upon the grounds herein stated: 1. When the defendant, or
one of several defendants, is a foreign corporation, or a nonresident of this territory; or, 2. Has absconded with the
intent to defraud his creditors; or, 3. Has left the county of
his residence, to avoid the service of a summons; or, 4. So
conceals himself that a summons cannot be served upon
him; or, 5. Is about to remove his property, or a part thereof,
out of the jurisdiction of the court, with the intent to defraud
his creditors; or, 6. Is about to convert his property, or a
part thereof, into money, for the purpose of placing it beyond
the reach of his creditors; or, 7. Has property, or rights in
action, which he conceals; or, 8. Has assigned, removed, or
disposed of, or is about to dispose of his property, or a part
thereof, with the intent to defraud his creditors; or, 9. Fraudulently contracted the debt, or incurred the obligation for
which suit is about to be, or has been brought. But an attachment shall not be granted on the ground that the defendant is a foreign corporation or a non-resident of this territory, for any claim other than a debt or demand arising upon

‘contract, judgment, or decree.

Sunmvrsxox 2_.—How an Attachment is obtained.

SECT. 189. An order of attachment shall be made by the
clerk of the court, in which the action is brought, in any case
mentioned in the preceding section, when there is filed in his
office an affidavit of the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, showing: 1. The nature of the plaintifff’s claim. 2. That it is just.
3. The amount which the affiant believes the plaintifff ought
to recover; and 4. The existence of some one of the grounds
for attachment, enumerated in the preceding section.

S301‘. 190. When the ground of the attachment is, that‘
the defendant is a foreign corporation, or a non-resident of ‘
this territory, the order of attachment may be issued without
an undertaking. In all other cases, the order of attachment
shall not be issued by the clerk, until there has been executed
in his office, by one or more sufficient sureties of the plaintifff,
to be approved by the clerk, an undertaking not exceeding
double the amount of the plaintifff’s claim, to the effect that
the plaintifff shall pay the defendant all damages, which he
may sustain by reason of the attachment, if the order be
wrongfully obtained.

S301‘. 191. The order of attachment shall be directed and
delivered to the sheriff. It shall require him to attach the
lands, tenements, goods, chattels, stocks, or interest in stocks,
rights, credits, monies, and effects of defendant in his ‘county,
not exempt by law from being applied to the payment of the
plaintifff ’s claim, or so much thereof ' as will satisfy the plaint-ifl"s claim, to be stated in the order as in the affidavit, and the
probable costs of the action, not exceeding fifty dollars.

SECT. 192. Orders of attachment may be issued to the
sheriffs of different counties; and several of them may, at the
option of the plaintifff, be issued at the same time, or in ‘succession; but such only as have been executed, shall be taxed
in the costs, unless otherwise directed by the court.

SECT. 193. The return day _of the order of attachment,
when issued at the commencement of the action, shall be the
same as that of the summons; when issued afterwards, it
shall be twenty days after it issued. .

SUBDIVBSION 8. —Ezecution and Return thereof.

S301‘. 194. When there are several orders of attachment
against the same defendant, they shall be executed in the
order in which they were received by the sheriff.

S801‘. 195. The order of attachment shall be executed by
the sheriff Without delay. He shall go to the place where the
defendant’s property may be found, and there, in the presence
of two residents of the county, declare that by virtue of said
order, he attaches said property at the suit of such plaintifff;
and the officer, with the said residents, who shall be first
sworn or affirmed by the officer, shall make a true inventory

and appraisement of all the property attached, which shall be

signed by the officer and residents, and returned with the
order. Where the property attached is real property, the
officer shall leave with the occupant thereof, or, if there be no
occupant, in a conspicuous place thereon, a copy of the order.
Where it is personal property and accessible, he shall take
the same into his custody, and hold it subject to the order of
the court. '

SECT. 196. The sheriff shall deliver the property attached
to the person in whose possession it was found, upon the
execution by such person, in the presence of the sheriff, of an
undertaking to the plaintifff, with one or more sufficient
sureties, resident in the county, to the effect that the parties
to the same are bound, in double the appraised value thereof,
that the property or its appraised value in money, shall be
forthcoming to answer the judgment of the court in the
action; but if it shall appear to the court that any part of
said property has been lost or destroyed by unavoidable
accident, the value thereof shall be remitted to the person so
bound.

SECT. 197. When the plaintifff, his agent, or attorney, shall
make oath in writing that he has good reason to and does
believe that any person or corporation, to be named and
within the county where the action is brought, has property
of the defendant (describing the same) in his possession, if
the officer cannot come at such property, he shall leave with
such garnishee a copy of the order of attachment, with a
written notice, that he appear in court at the return of the
order of attachmerft, and answer as provided in section two
hundred and eleven.

SECT. 198. The copy of the order an the notice shall be
served upon the garnishee, as follows: f he be a person,
they shall be served upon him personally, or left at his _usual
place of residence; if a corporation, they shall be left with
the president or other officer of the same, or a managing
agent thereof.

SECT. 199. Different attachments of the same property

~ may be made by the same officer, and one inventory and appraisement shall be sufficient, and it shall not be necessary to
return the same with more than one order.

SECT. 200. Where the property is under attachment, it
shall be attached under subsequent orders as follows: 1. If it

be real property, it shall be attached in the manner prescribed
in section one hundred and ninety-five. 2. If it be personal
property, it shall be attached as in the hands of. the officer,
and subject to any previous attachment. 3. If the same person or corporation be made a garnishee, a copy of the order
and notice shall be left with him, in the manner prescribed in
section one hundred and ninety-seven.

SBCT. 201. The officer shall return upon every order of
attachment what he has done under’ it. The retuin must
show the property attached, and the time it was attached.
When garnishees are served, their names, and the time each
was served, must be stated. The officer shall also return with
the order all undertakings given under it.

S301‘. 202. An order of attachment binds the property attached from the time of service, and the garnishee shall stand
liable to the plaintifff in attachment for all property, monies,
and credits in his hands, or due from him to the defendant,
from the time he is served with the written notice mentioned
in section one hundred and ninety-seven; but where tire property is attached in the hands of a consignee, his lien thereon
shall not be affected by the attachment.

Sunmvrsxox 4.—Diapon'n’on qf Attached Property.

SECT. 203. The court, or any judge thereof during vacation, may, on the application of the plaintifff, and on good
cause shown, appoint a receiver, who shall take an oath faithfully to discharge his duty, and shall give an undertaking to
the Territory of Dakota, in such sum as the court or judge
may direct, and with such security as shall be approved by
the clerk of the court, for the faithful performance of his duty
as such receiver, and to pay over all money, and account for
all property, which may come into his hands by virtue of his
appointment, at such times and in such manner as the court
may direct.

SECT. 204. Such receiver shall take possession of all notes,
due-bills, books of account, accounts, and all other evidences
of debt that have been taken by the sheriff or other officer, as
the property of the defendant in attachment, and shall proceed to settle and collect the same. For that purpose, he
may commenceand maintain actions in his own name as

suchireceiver; but in such actions no right of defense shall
be impaired or affected.

SECT.  Such receiver shall forthwith give notice of his
appointment to the persons indebted to the defendant in attachment. The notice shall be written or printed, and shall
be served on the debtor or debtors, by copy personally, or by
copy left at the residence; and from the date of such service,
the debtors shall stand liable to the plaintifff in attachment
for the amount of monies and credits in their hands, or due
from them to the defendant in attachment, and shall account
therefore to the receiver.

SECT. 206. Such receiver shall, when required, report his
proceedings to the court, and hold all monies collected by
him, and property which may come into his hands, subject to
the order of the court.

SECT. 207. Where a receiver is not appointed by the
court or a judge thereof, as provided in section two hundred
and three, the sheriff or other officer attaching the property
shall have all the powers and perform all the duties of ‘a receiver appointed by the court or a judge, and may, if necessary, commence and maintain actions in his own name as
such officer. He may be required to give security, other than
his official undertaking.

SECT. 208. The court shall make proper orders for the
preservation of the property, during the pendency of the suit.
It may direct a sale of property, when, because of its perishable nature or the costs of keeping it, a sale will be for the
benefit of the parties. In vacation, such sale may be ordered
by the judge of the court. The sale shall be public, after
such advertisement as is prescribed for the sale of like property on execution, and 'shall be made in ‘such manner, and
upon such terms of credit, with security, as the court [or]
judge, having regard to the probable duration of the‘ action,
may direct. The proceeds, if collected by the sheriff, with all
the monies received by him from garnishees, shall be held
and paid over by him, under the same requirement and responsibilities of himself and sureties, as are provided in respect
to money deposited in lieu of bail.

Sunnrvlslox 5.—Procc¢ding: upon Attachment.

SECT. 209. If the defendant, or any other person on his,
behalf, at any time before judgment, cause an undertaking to :
be executed to the plaintifff by one or more sureties, resident
in the county, to be approved by the court, in double the
amount of the plaintifff’s claim as stated in his affidavit, to
the effect that the defendant shall perform the judgment of
the court, the attachment in such action shall be discharged,
and restitution made of ‘any property taken under it, or the
proceeds thereof. Such undertaking shall also discharge the
liability of a garnishee in such action for any property of the
defendant in his hands.

SI-:c'r. 210. The undertaking mentioned in the last section, ,
may, in vacation, be executed in the presence of the sheriff
having the order of attachment in his hands, or, after the
return of the order, before the clerk, with the same effect as,if
executed in court; the sureties in either case to be approved
by the officer before whom the undertaking is.executed.

SECT. 211. The garnishee shall appear as follows: If the,
order of attachment be returned during a term of court, he‘
shall appear at that term; if the order be returned during
vacation, he shall appear at the term next after its return.
He shall appear and answer, under oath, all the questions put
to him touching the property of every description and credits
of the defendant, in his possession or under his control, and
he shall disclose truly the amount owing by him to the defendant, whether due or not, and in case of a corporation, any
stock therein held by or for the benefit of the defendant at or
after the service of notice.

S301‘. 212. A garnishee may pay the money owing to the
defendant by him, to the sheriff having the order of attachment, or into court. He shall be discharged from liability to
the defendant, for any money so paid, not exceeding the plaintifff’s claim. He shall not be subjected to costs beyond those
caused by his resistance of the claim against him; and if he
disclose,the property in his hands or the true amount owing
by him, and deliver or pay the same according to the order of
the court, he shall be allowed his costs.

SECT. 213. If the garnishee do not appear in court and,
answer, as required by section two hundred and eleven, the
court may proceed against him by attachment as for a contempt.

SECT. 214. If the garnishee. appear and answer, and it is
discovered on his examination,‘ that at or after the service of
the order of attachment and notice upon him, he was possessed of any property of the defendant, or was indebted to
him, the court may order the delivery of such property and
the payment of the amount owing by the garnishee, into the
court; or the court may permit the garnishee to retain the
property or the amount owing, upon the execution of an
undertaking to the plaintifff by one or more sufficient sureties,
to the effect, that the amount shall be paid, dr the property
forthcoming, as the court may direct.

SECT. 215. If the garnishee fail to appear and answer, or
if he appear and answer, and his disclosure is not satisfactory to the plaintifff, or if he fail to comply with the order of
the court, to deliver the property and pay the money owing
into court, or give the undertaking required in the preceding
section, the plaintifff may proceed against him in an action,
by filing a petition in his own name, as in other cases, and
causing a summons to be issued upon it; and thereupon such
proceedings may be had as in other actions, and judgment
may be rendered in favor of the plaintifff, for the amount of
the property and credits, of every kind, of the defendant in
the possession of the garnishee, and for what shall appear
to be owing by him to the defendant, and for the costs of the
proceedings against the garnishee. If the plaintifff proceed
against the garnishee by action, for the cause that his disclosure was unsatisfactory, unless it appear in the action
that such disclosure was incomplete, the plaintifff shall pay
the costs of such action. The judgment in this action may
be enforced as judgments in other cases. When the claims
of the plaintifffs in attachment are satisfied, the defendant in
attachment may, on motion, be substituted as the plaintifff in
the judgment. A

SECT. 216. Final judgment shall, not be rendered against
the garnishee, until the action against the defendant in attachment has been determined; and if in such action judgment be rendered for the defendant in attachment, the garnishee shall be discharged and recover costs. If the plaintifff shall recover against the defendant in attachment, and the
garnishee shall deliver up all the property, monies, and credits
of the defendant in his possession, and pay all the monies

from him due, as the court may order, the garnishee shall be
discharged, and the costs of the proceedings against him shall
be paid out of the property and monies so surrendered, or as
the court may think right and proper.

SECT. 217. If judgment be rendered in the action for the,
defendant, the attachment shall be discharged, and the prop-’
erty attached, or its proceeds shall be returned to him. H

S801‘. 218. If judgment be rendered for the plaintifff, it;
shall be satisfied as follows: So much of the property remain-}
ing in the hands of the officer, after applying the monies
arising from the sale of perishable property, and so much of
the‘ personal property and lands and tenements, if any, whether
held by legal or equitable title, as may be necessary to satisfy
the judgment, shall be sold by order of the court, under the
same restrictions and regulations as if the same had been
levied on by execution; and the money arising therefrom,
with the amount which may be recovered from the garnishee,
shall be applied to satisfy the judgment and costs. If there
be not enough to satisfy the same, the judgment shall stand,
and the execution may issue thereon for the residue, in all
respects as in other cases. Any surplus of the attached property, or its proceeds, shall be returned to the defendant.

SECT. 219. The court may compel the delivery to the,
sheriff, for sale, of any of the attached property for which an
undertaking may have been given, and may proceed summarily on such undertaking, to enforce the delivery of the property, or the payment of such sum as may be due upon
the undertaking, by rules and attachments, as in cases of
contempt.

S301‘. 220. The court may order the sheriff to repossess
himself, for the purpose of selling it, any of the attached
property which may have passed out of his -hands, without
having been sold or converted into money; and the sheriff
shall, under such order, have the same power to take the
property as he would have under an order of attachment.

S1:-:c'r. 221. If personal property which has been attached
be claimed by any person other than the defendant, it shall
be the duty of the officer to have the validity of such claim
tried, and such proceedings must be had thereon, with the
like effect as in case the property had been seized upon execution, and claimed by a third person.

SECT. 222. Where several attachments are executed on
vthe same property, or the same persons are made garnishees,
the court, on the motion of any of the plaintifffs, may order a
reference to ascertain and report the amounts and priorities of
the several attachments.

SUBDIVISION 6.— General Provisions.

SECT. 223. From the time of the issuing of the order of
attachment, the court shall be deemed to have acquired jurisdiction and to have control of all subsequent proceedings
under this chapter; and if, after the issuing of the order, the
defendant being a person, should die, or a corporation, and its
charter should expire by limitation, forfeiture, or otherwise,
the proceeding shall be carried on; but in all such cases, other
than where the defendant was a foreign corporation, his legal
representatives shall be made parties to the action.

SECT. 224. The defendant may, at any time before judgment, after reasonable notice to the plaintifff, move the court
for additional security on the part of the plaintifff; and if, on
such motion, the court is satisfied that the surety in the plaintifff’s undertaking has removed from this territory, or is not
sufficient for the amount thereof, it may vacate the order of
attachment and direct restitution of any property taken under
it, unless, in a reasonable time, to be fixed by the court, sufficient security is given by the plaintifff.

SECT. 225. The defendant may, at any time before judgment, upon reasonable notice to the plaintifff, move to discharge an attachment, as to the Whole or a part of the property attached.

SECT. 226. If the motion be made. upon affidavits on the
part of the defendant, or papers and evidence in the case, but
not oth'erwise,‘the plaintifff may oppose the same by affidavits
or other evidence, in addition to that on which the order of
attachment was made.

ARTICLE II.-A'1"!'ACHME1\'1'8 in CERTAIN ACTIONS.

SECT. 227. 1. Where a debtor has sold, conveyed, or otherwise disposed of his property, with the fraudulent intent to
cheat or defraud his creditors, or to hinder or delay them in
the collection of their debts; or, 2. Is about to make such

sale, conveyance, or disposition of his property, with such
fraudulent intent; or, 3. Is about to remove his property, or a
material part thereof, with the intent, or to the effect, of
cheating or defrauding his creditors, or of hindering and
delaying them in the collection of their debts, a creditor may
bring an action on a claim before it is due, and have an
attachment against the property of the debtor.

SECT. 228. The attachment authorized by the last section,
may be granted by the court in which ‘the action is brought,
or by a judge thereof, but before such action shall be brought,
or such attachment shall be granted, the plaintifff, his agent or
attorney shall make an oath in writing, showing the nature
and amount of the plaintifff’s claim, that it is just, when the
same shall become due, and the existence of some one of the
grounds for attachment, enumerated in the preceding section.

S301‘. 229. If the court or judge refuse to grant an order
of attachment, the action shall be dismissed, but without prejudice to a future action; and in all such actions, application
for an attachment must be made.

SECT. 230. The order of the court or judge granting the
attachment, shall specify the amount for which it is allowed,
not exceeding a sum sufficient to satisfy the plaintifff ’s claim
and the probable costs of the action.

S801‘. 231. The order of attachment, as granted by the
court or judge, shall not be issued by the clerk until there has
been executed, in his office, such undertaking on the part
of the plaintifff, as is directed by,section one hundred and
ninety.

SECT. 232. The plaintifff in such action shall not have
judgment on his claim, before it becomes due, and the proceedings on attachment may be conducted without delay.

S801‘. 233. The proceedings in the first article of this
chapter, subsequent to section one hundred and ninety, shall,
so far as they are applicable, regulate the attachments au-1
thorized by this article.

CHAPTER IV.—INJUNC'I‘ION.

S301‘. 234. The injunction provided by this code is a command to refrain from a particular act. It may be the final

judgment in an action, or may be allowed as a provisional
remedy; and when so allowed, it shall be by order. The
writ of injunction is abolished.

SECT. 235. When it appears by the petition that the
plaintifff is entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief, or
any part thereof, consists in restraining the commission or
continuance of some act, the commission or continuance of
which, during the litigation, would produce great or irreparable injury to the plaintifff, or when, during litigation, it
appears that the defendant is doing or threatens, or is about

to do, or is procuring, or suffering to be done, some act in

violation of the plaintifff ’s rights, respecting the subject of
action, and’ tending to render the judgment ineffectual, a
temporary injunction may be granted to restrain such, apt.
It may also be granted in any case where it is specially
authorized by statute.

SECT. 236. The injunction may be granted at the time of
commencing the action, or at any time afterwards, before
judgment, by the supreme court or any judge thereof, the
district court or any judge thereof, upon its appearing satisfactorily to the court or judge, by the affidavit of the plaintifff
or his agent, that the plaintifff is entitled thereto. '

SECT. 237. If the court or judge deem it proper that the

defendant, or any party to the suit, should be heard before
granting the injunction, it may direct a reasonable notice to be
given to such party to attend for "such purpose at a specified
time and place, and may, in the mean time, restrain such
party. . SECT. 238. An injunction shall not be granted against a
party who has answered, unless upon notice; but such party
may be restrained until the decision of the application for an
injunction.

SECT. 239. No injunction, unless provided by special
statute, shall operate until the party obtaining the same shall
give an undertaking, executed by one or more sufficient
sureties, to be approved by the clerk of the court granting
such injunction, in an amount to be fixed by the court or
judge allowing’ the same, to secure to the party enjoined the
damages he may sustain, if it be finally decided that the
injunction ought not to have been granted.

SECT. 240. The order of injunction shall be addressed to

the party enjoined, shall state the injunction, and shall be
issued by the clerk. Where the injunction is allowed at the
commencement of the action, the clerk shall indorse upon the
summons, “injunction allowed,” and it shall not be necessary
to issue the order of injunct.ion; nor shall it be necessary to
issue the same, where notice of the application therefore has
been given to the party enjoined. The service of the summons so indorsed, or .the notice of the application for an
injunction, shall be notice of its allowance. _

S801‘. 241. Where the injunction is allowed during the
litigation and without notice of the application therefore, the
order of injunction shall be issued, and the sheriff forthwith
serve the same upon each _party enjoined, in the manner
prescribed for serving a summons, and make return thereof
without delay. '

SECT. 242. An injunction binds the party, from the time‘
he has notice thereof, and the undertaking required by the
applicant therefore, is executed.

SECT. 243. No injunction shall be granted by a judge,
after a motion therefore has been overruled on the merits of
the application, by his court.

SECT. 244. An injunction granted by a judge may be
enforced, as they act of the court. Disobedience of an injunction may be punished as a contempt, by the court or any
judge, who might have granted it in vacation. An attachment may be issued by the court or judge, upon being satisfied by aftidavit of the breach of the injunction, against the
party guilty of the same; and he may be required, in the
discretion of the court or judge, to pay a fine not exceeding
two hundred dollars for the use of the county, to make
immediate restitution to the party injured, and give further
security to obey the injunction ; or in default thereof, he may
be committed to close custody, until he shall fully comply
with such requirement, or be otherwise legally ‘discharged.

Sacr. 245. A party enjoined may, at any time before]
judgment, upon reasonable notice to the party who has ob-1
mined the injunction, move the court for additional security; i
and if it appear that the surety in the undertaking has
removed from the territory, or is insufficient, the court may
vacate the injunction, unless in a reasonable time sufficient

security be given.

SECT. 246. On the hearing of an application for an injunction, each party may read affidavits, All affidavits shall be

filed.
SECT. 247. If the injunction be granted without notice,

the defendant, at any time before the trial, may apply, upon

notice, to the court in which the, action is brought, or any
judge thereof, to vacate or modify the same. The application may be made upon the petition and affidavits upon
which the injunction is granted, or upon affidavits on the part
of the party enjoined, with or without answer. The order of
the judge allowing, dissolving, or modifying an‘ injunction,
shall be returned to the office of the clerk of the court in
which the action is brought, and recorded and obeyed, as if
made by the court. ' ,

SECT. 248. If the application be made upon affidavits on

‘the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may

oppose the same to aliidavits or other evidence, in addition
to that on which the injunction was granted.

SECT. 249. A defendant may obtain an injunction upon
an answer in the nature of a counterclaim. He shall proceed in the manner prescribed in this chapter.

CHAPTER V.—Rr:cmvnns AND ormm Pn_ov1sroNAL Rnmzmr-zs.

SECT. 250. A receiver may be appointed by the supreme
court, or district court or by any judge of either: 1. In an
action by a vendor to vacate a fraudulent purchase of property, or by a creditor to subject any property or fund to his
claim, or between partners or others jointly owning or interested in any property or fund, on the application of the
plaintifff or of any party whose right to or interest in the
property or fund, or the process thereof is probable, and where
it is shown that the property or fund is in danger of being
lost, removed, or materially injured. 2. In an action by a
mortgagee for the foreclosure of his mortgage, and sale of the
mortgaged property, where it appears that the mortgaged
property is in danger of being lost, removed, or materially
injured, or that the condition of the mortgage has not been
performed, and that the property is probably insufficient to
discharge the mortgaged debt. 3. After judgment to carry
the judgment into effect. 4. After the judgment, to dispose

of the property according to the judgment, or to preserve it
during the pendency of an appeal, or when an execution has
been returned unsatisfied, and the judgment debtor nfuses to
apply the property in satisfaction of the judgment. 5. In the
cases provided in this code, and by special statutes, when a
corporation has been dissolved or is insolvent, or in imminent
danger. of insolvency, or has forfeited its corporate rights.
6. In all other cases where receivers have heretofore been
appointed by the usages of courts of equity.

SECT. 251. No party or attorney or person interested in an 1
action shall be appointed receiver therein.

S901‘. 252. Before entering upon his duties, the receiver
must be sworn to perform them faithfully, and, with one or;
more sureties, approved by the court or judge, execute an undertaking to such person and in such sum as the court or
judge shall direct, to the effect that he will faithfully discharge
the duties of receiver in the action, and obey the orders of the
court therein.

S301‘. 253. The receiver has, under the control of the
court, power to bring and defend actions in his own name, as
receiver, to take and keep possession of the property, to receive rents, collect debts, to compound for and compromise
the‘ same, to make transfers and generally to do such acts respecting the property as the court may authorize.

SECT. 254. Funds’ in the hands of a receiver may be invested upon interest, by order of the court; but no such order
shall be made except upon the consent of all parties to the
action.

S301‘. 255. Whenqit is admitted by the pleading or examination of a party, that he has in his possession or under his
control, any money or other thing capable of delivery, which,
being the subject of the litigation, is held by him as trustee
for another party, or which belongs or is due to another party,
the court may order the same to be deposited in court, or
delivered to such party, with or without security, subject to
the further discretion of the court.

SEc'r. 256. Whenever, in the exercise of its authority, a
court shall have ordered the deposit or delivery of money or
other thing, and the order is disobeyed, the court, besides
punishing disobedience as for a contempt, may make an order, requiring the sheriff to take the money or thing and

deposit or deliver it in conformity with the direction of the
court.
0

TITLE IX.

TRIAL.

CHAPTER I. Issue.—II. Trial.

CHAPTER I.— Issmz.

SECT. 257. Issues arise on the pleadings, where a fact, or
conclusion of law, is maintained by one party and controv’erted by the other. They are of two kinds: 1. Of law. 2.
Of fact.

SECT. 258. An issue of fact arises: 1. Upon a material
allegation in the petition denied by the answer. 2. Upon a
set-off or counterclaim presented in the answer and denied by
the reply. 3. Upon material new matter in the answer or reply, which shall be considered as controverted by the opposite
party without further pleading.

CHAPTER II. TRIAL.—Art.icle I. Trial in General.—II. Trial by
Jury/.—III. Trial by the Court.—IV. Trial by Referees.—V. Exceptions.—VI. New Trials.—VII. General Provisions.—VIII. Time of
Trial.

ARTICLE I.—TB1AL xx GENERAL.

SECT. 259. A trial is a judicial examination of the issues,
whether of law or of fact, in an action.’

SECT. 260. Issues of law must be tried by the court, unless referred as provided in section two hundred and seventyeight. Issues of fact, arising in actions for the recovery of
money, or of specific real or personal property, shall be tried
by a jury, unless a jury trial is waived, or a reference be ordered as hereinafter provided.

SECT. 261. All other issues of fact shall be tried by the
court, subject to its power to order any issue or issues to be
tried by a jury, or referred, as provided in this code.

ARTICLE II. TRIALS B! JUmr.—Subdivision 1. Formation of the Jury.—2. Conduct of the T1-ial.—3. Verdict.

SUBDIVISION 1. — Formation of the Jury.

SECT. 262. The general mode of summoning, empanneling,

challenging, and swearing a jury, shall be as otherwise provided by law.

Sunmvisrox 2.—0onduct of the Trial.

SECT. 263. When the jury has been sworn, the trial shall
proceed in the following order, unless the court for special
reasons otherwise direct: 1. The plaintifff must briefly state
his claim, and he may briefly state the evidence by which he
expects to sustain it. 2. The defendant must then briefly
state his defense, and may briefly state the evidence be expects to offer in support of it. 3. The party who would be
defeated, if no evidence were given on either side, must first
procure his evidence; the adverse party will then produce his
evidence. 4. The parties will then be confined to rebutting
evidence, unless the court, for good reasons, in furtherance of
justice, permits them to offer evidence in their original case.
5. When the evidence is concluded, either party may request
instructions to the jury on points of law, and be heard upon
the same, which shall be given or refused by the court; which
instructions shall be reduced to writing, if either party require
it. 6. The parties may then submit or argue the case to the
jury. In the argument, the party required first to produce_
his evidence, shall have the opening and conclusion. If several defendants, having separate defenses, appear by different
counsel, the court shall arrange their relative order. 7. The
court may again charge the jury after the argument is concluded.

SECT. 264. Whenever, in the opinion of the court, it is
proper for the jury to have a view of property which is the

' subject of litigation, or of the place in which any material

fact occurred, it may order them to be conducted in a body
under the charge of an officer to the place, which shall be
shown to them by some person appointed by the court for
that purpose. While the jury are thus absent, no person
other than the person so appointed, shall speak to them on
any subject connected with the trial. ’

S1:-:c'r. 265. When the case is finally submitted to the jury,
they may decide in court or retire for deliberation. If they
retire, they must be kept together in some convenient place,
under the charge of an officer until they agree upon a verdict,
or are discharged by the court, subject to the discretion of the
court to permit them to separate temporarily at night, and at
their meals. The officer having them under his charge, shall
not suffer any communication to be made to them, or make
any himself, except to ask them if they have agreed upon
their verdict, unless by order of the court, and he shall not,
before_ their verdict is rendered, communicate to any person
the state of their deliberations, or the verdict agreed upon.

SECT. 266. If the jury are permitted to separate either
during the trial, or after the case is submitted to them,‘they
shall be admonished by the court that it is their duty not to
converse with, or suffer themselves to be addressed by any
other person, on any subject of the trial, and that it is their
duty not to form or express any opinion thereon, until the
cause is finally submitted to them.

SECT. 267. After the jury have retired for deliberation, if
there be a disagreement between them as to any part of the
testimony, or if they desire to be informed as toany part of
the law arising in the case, they may request the officer to
conduct them, to the court, where the information upon the
point of law shall be given, and the court may give its recollection as to the testimony on the point in dispute, in the
_presence of, or after notice to the parties or their counsel.

SECT. 268. The jury may be discharged by the court on
account of the sickness of a juror, or other accident or calamity
requiring their discharge, or by consent of both parties, or after
they have been kept together untilit satisfactorily appears
that there is no probability of their agreeing. '

SECT. 269. In all cases where the jury are discharged during the trial, or after the cause is submitted to them, it may
be tried again immediately, or at a future time, as the court
may direct.

SECT. 270. When the jury have agreed upon their verdict,
they must be conducted into court, their names called by the
clerk, and the verdict rendered by the foreman. When the
verdict is announced, either party may require the jury to be
polled, which is done.by the clerk asking each juror if it is

his verdict. If any one answers in the negative, the jury must
again be sent out for further deliberation.

S1=;c'r. 271. The verdict shall be written, signed by the
foreman, and read by the clerk to the jury, and the inquiry
made whether it is their verdict. If any juror disagrees, the
jury must be sent out again; but if no disagreement be expressed, and neither party requires the jury to be polled, the
verdict is complete, and the jury discharged from the case.
If, however, the verdict be defective in form only, the same

may, with the assent of the jury before they aredischarged,

be corrected by the court.

‘u
Suamvrsrox 8. -— Verdict.

S301‘. 272. The verdict of a jury is either general or
special. A general verdict is that by which they pronounce
generally upon all or any of the issues, either in favor of the
plaintifff or defendant. A special verdict is that by ‘which
the jury hnds the facts only. It must present the facts as
established by the evidence, and not the evidence to prove
them; and they must be so presented as that nothing remains
to the court, but to draw from them conclusions of law.

SECT. 273. In every action for the recovery of money
only, or specific real property, the jury, in their discretion,
may render a general or special verdict. In all other cases,
the court may direct the jury to find a special verdict in
writing, upon all or any of the issues; and in all cases may
instruct them if they render a general verdict, to find upon
particular questions of fact to be stated in writing, and may
direct a written finding thereon. The special verdict or
finding must be filed with the clerk and entered on the
journals. '

S301‘. 274. When the special finding of facts is inconsistent with the general verdict, the former controls the latter, and
the court may give judgment accordingly. T

Sect. 275. When, by the verdict, either party is entitled
to recover money of the adverse party, the jury, in their verdict, must assess the amount of recovery.

/
ARTICLE III.-,—TmAL nr um COURT.

SECT. 276. The trial by jury may be waived by the parties in the action arising on contract, and with the assent of
the court, in other actions, in the following manner: 1. By
the consent of the party appearing, when the other party fails
to appear at the trial by himself or attorney. 2. By written
consent in person, or by attorney, filed with the clerk. 3. By
oral consent in open court entered on the journal.
SECT. 277. Upon the trial of questions of fact by the
' court,°it shall not be necessary for the court to state its finding, except, generally, for the plaintifff or defendant, unless
"one of the_parties request it, with the view of excepting to
the decision of the court upon the questions of law involved
in the trial; in which case the court shall state in writing the
conclusions of fact found-, separately, from the conclusions of

law.

ARTICLE IV.—TRIAL BY Bmumzns.

SECT. 278. All or any of the issues in the action, whether
of fact or law, or both, may be referred, upon the written
consent of the parties, or upon their oral consent in court entered upon the journal.

SECT. 279. When the parties do not consent, the court
may, upon the application of either, or of its own motion,
direct a referee in either of the following cases: 1. Where
the trial of an issue of fact shall require the examination of
mutual accounts, or where the account is on one side only,
and it shall be made to appear to the court, that it is necessary that the party on the other side should be examined asia
witness to prove the account; in which cases the referees may
be directed to hear and report upon the whole issue, or upon
any specific question of fact involved therein; or, 2. Where
the taking of an account shall be necessary for the information of the court before judgment, in cases which may be
determined by the court, or for carrying a judgment into
effect; or, 3. Where a question of fact, other than upon the
pleadings, shall arise upon motion or otherwise, in any stage
of the action.

. SECT. 280. The trial before referees is conducted in the
same manner as a trial by the court. They have the same
power to summon and enforce the attendance of witnesses,
to administer all necessary oaths in the trial of the ease, and
to grant adjournments, as the court, upon such trial. They

must state the facts found and the conclusions of law separately, and their decision must be given, and may_be excepted
to and reviewed in like manner. The report of the referees
upon the whole issue stands as the decision of the court, and
judgment may be entered thereon in the same manner as if
the action had been tried by the court. When the reference
is to report the facts, the report has the effect of a special
verdict.

SEc'1_'. 281. In all cases of reference, the parties, except‘
when an infant may be a party, may agree upon a suitable;
person or persons, not exceeding three, and the reference shall
be ordered accordingly;‘and, if the parties do not agree, the
court shall appoint one or more referees, not exceeding three,
who shall be free from exception.

SECT. 282. A reference as provided in this chapter cannot 1
be ordered by any court inferior to the district court, except‘
by consent of parties to the reference and referees.

SECT. 283. It shall be the duty of the referees to sign any
true exceptions taken to any order or decision by them made
in the case, and return the same with their report to the court
making the reference.

S1-:01‘. 284. A judge in vacation, upon the written consent
of the parties, may make any order of reference which the
court, of which _he is a member, could make in term time.
In such case, the order of reference shall be made on the
written agreement of the parties to refer, and shall be filed
with the clerk of the court with the other papers in the
[case].

SECT. 285. The referees must be sworn or affirmed well
and faithfully to hear and examine the cause, and to make a
just and true report therein according to the best of their understanding. The oath may be administered by any person
authorized to take depositions.

SECT. 286. The referees shall be allowed such compensation for their services as the court may deem just and proper,
which shall be taxed as a part of the costs in the case.

ARTICLE v.—Excm-xoxs. '

SBC’1‘..287. An. exception is an objection taken to a decision of the court upon a matter of law.

SECT. 288. The party objecting to the decision must
except at the time the decision‘ is made, and time may be
given to reduce the exception to writing, but not beyond the
term.

SECT.'289. No particular form of exception is required.
The exception must be stated, with so much of the evidence
as is necessary to explain it, and no more, and the whole as

briefly as possible.

SECT. 290. When the decision objected to is entered on
the record, and the grounds of objection appear in the entry,
the exception may be taken by the party causing to be noted,
at the end of the decision, that he excepts.

SECT. 291. Where the decision is not entered on the
record, or the grounds of objection do not suHiciently appear
in the entry, the party excepting must reduce his exception to
writing, and present to the court for its allowance. If true,
it shall be the duty of a majority of the judges composing the
court, to allow and sign it, whereupon it shall be filed with
the pleadings as part of the record, but not spread at large on
the journal. If the writing is not true, the court shall correct
it, or suggest the correction to be made, and it shall then be
signed as aforesaid. '

SECT. 292.- No exception shall be’ regarded, unless it is
material, and prejudicial to the substantial rights of the party
excepting.

SECT. 293. Exceptions taken to the decision of any court
of record may, by leave of such court, be withdrawn from
the files by the party taking the same, at any time before proceedings in error are commenced, and before the exceptions
are recorded.

ARTICLE VI.’--New Tam. '

SECT. 294. A new trial is a reexamination in the same
court of an issue of fact after a verdict by a jury, report of a
referee, or a decision by the court. The former verdict, report,
or decision shall be vacated, and a new trial granted, on the
application of the party aggrieved for any of the following
causes affecting _rnaterially the substantial rights of such
party: 1. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury,
referee, or prevailing party, or any order of the court, or referee, or abuse of discretion, by which the party was prevented

from having a fair trial. 2. Misconduct of the jury or prevailing party. 3. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against. 4. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under the influence of
passion or prejudice‘. 5. Error in the assessment of the
amount of recovery, whether too large or too small, where the
action is upon a contract, or for the injury or detention of
property. 6. That the verdict, report, or decision, is not sustained by sufficient evidence, or is contrary to law. 7. Newly
discovered evidence material for the party applying, which he
could not, with reasonablediligence, have discovered and produced at the trial. 8. Error of law occurring at the trial, and
excepted to by the party making the application.

SECT. 295. A new trial shall not be granted on account
of the smallness of damages in an action for an injury in the
person or reputation, nor any other action where the damages
shall equal the actual pecuniary injury sustained.

SECT. ' 296. The application for a new trial must be made
at the term the verdict, report, or decision is rendered, and
except for the cause of newly-discovered evidence, material
for the party applying, which he could not with reasonable
diligence have discovered and produced at the trial, shall be
within three days after the verdict or decision wan rendered,
unless unavoidably prevented.

SECT. 297. The application must be by motion upon written grounds, filed at the time of making the motion. The
causes enumerated in subdivisions two, three, and seven, of
section two hundred and ninety-four, must be sustained by
affidavits showing their truth, and may be controverted by
affidavits.

SECT. 298. Where the grounds for a new trial could not,
with reasonable vdiligence, have been discovered before, but
are discovered after the term at which the verdict, report of
referee, or decision was rendered, or made, the application
may be made   by petition, filed as in other cases; on which a
summons shall issue, he returnable and served, or publication
made as prescribed in section sixty-nine. The facts stated in
the petition shall be considered as denied without answer,
and if the service shall be complete in vacation, the case shall
be heard and summarily decided at the ensuing term. The
case shall be placed on the trial docket, and the witnesses

shall be examined in open court, or their depositions taken as
in other cases, but no such petition shall be filed more than

one year after the final judgment was rendered.

ARTICLE VII.— GENERAL Pnovrsroxs.

SECT. 299. Whenever damages are recoverable, the plaintifff may claim and recover any rate of damages to which he
may be entitled for the cause of action established.

SECT. 300. The provision of this title respecting trials by

jury apply, so far as they are in their nature applicable, to
trials by court.

ARTICLE VIII.—Tnm or TRIAL.

SEC’l.‘. 301. The clerk of the district court shall keep at
least five books, to be called the “appearance docket,” the
“trial docket,” the “journal,” the “record,” and “execution
docket.”

SECT. 302. On the appearance docket, he shall enter all
actions in the order in which they were brought, the date of
the summons, the time of the return thereof by the officer and
his return thereon, the time of filing the petition, and all subsequent pbadings.

SECT. 303. The trial docket shall be made out by the
clerk of the court, at least twelve days before the first day of
each term of the court; and the actions shall be set for particular days in the order in which the issues were made up,
whether of law or of fact, and so arranged that the cases set
for each day shall be tried as nearly as may be on that day.
For the purpose of arranging said docket, an issue shall be
considered as made up, when either party is in default of a
pleading. ”

SECT. 304. The trial of an issue of fact, and the assessment of damages in any case shall be in the order in which
they are placed on the trial docket, unless by consent of the
parties, or the order of the court, they are continued or placed
at the heel of the docket. The time of hearing all other cases
shall be in the order in which they are placed on the docket,
unless the court in its discretion shall otherwise direct. The
court may in its discretion hear, at any time, a motion; and
may by rule prescribe the time for'hearing motions.

SECT. 305. In any civil action, wherein the defendant
shall answer or demur on or before the first day of the term
next succeeding the service of process, such first term shall be
the appearance term, and such cause shall be continued, on
the application of either party, to the next term, at which time
the same shall be tried, unless for good cause the court shall

continue the same.
'SEc'r. 306. In actions wherein default is made, judgment

shall be rendered at the first term after the service of process,
provided service shall be made not less than ten days before

the term.
Sect. 307. The clerk shall make out a copy of the trial

docket for the use of the bar before the first day of the term
of court

TITLE X.

EVIDENCE.

CHAPTER I. Competency of Wilnesses.—II. Means of producing Witnesscs.—III. Mode of taking their Testimong/.—IV. Admission, Inspection, and Productionpf Documents and General Provisions. — V. Pe1petuation of Testimony.

CHAPTER I.—COMPE'I‘ENCY or Wrrxrsssns. ,

SECT. 308. Every human being of sufiicient capacity to
understand the obligations of an oath, is a competent witness
in all cases, both civil and criminal, except as herein otherwise declared; and no person shall be disqualified as a witness
in any civil action or proceeding, by reason of his or her interest in the result of the same, as ayparty or otherwise; but
such interest may be shown .for the purpose of affecting his
or her credibility.

SE01’. 309. No party to a suit shall be allowed to testify
in his own behalf, by virtue of the last section, when the
adverse party is the executor, administrator, or heir of a
deceased person, where the facts to be proved transpired
before the death of such deceased person.

S301‘. 310. Facts which have heretofore caused the exclusion of testimony -may still be shown for the purpose of lessening its credibility. '

SECT. 311. The husband can, in no case, be a witness for
or against the wife, nor the wife for or against the husband,
unless the contract or facts to be sworn to are in the exclusive knowledge of such husband or wife, as agent or otherwise, in which case but one can testify, and unless in a criminal proceeding for a crime committed by the one against the
other.

SECT. 312. Neither husband or wife can be examined in
any case as to any communication made by the one to the
other, while married, nor as to any fact learned in consequence of the marriage relation; nor shall they, after such
relation ceases, be permitted to reveal, in testimony, any such
communication or fact.

SECT. 313. No attorney, counsellor, physician, surgeon,
minister of the gospel, or priest, shall be allowed, in giving
testimony, to disclose any confidential communication, properly intrusted to him in his professional capacity, and necessary and proper to enable him to discharge the functions of
his office according to the usual course of practice or discipline.

SE01’. 314. The prohibitions of the last section do not
apply to cases where the party, in whose favor they are
enacted, waives the rights thereby conferred.

SECT. 315. A public officer cannot be examined as to
communications made to him in official confidence, when the
public interests would suffer by the disclosure.

SECT. 316. A witness is not excused from answering a
question upon the mere ground that he would be thereby
subjected to a civil liability.

SECT. 317. But when the matter sought to be elicited
would tend to render him criminally liable, or to expose him
‘to public ignominy, he is not compelled to answer, except as
provided in the next section.

SECT. 318. A witness may be interrogated as to his
previous convictions for a felony. But no other proof of
such conviction is competent except the record thereof.

SECT. 319. When the part of an act, declaration, conver-'

sation, or writing is given in evidence by one party, the whole
on the same subject may be inquired into by the other; thus,
when a letter is read, all other letters on the same subject
between the same parties may be given. And when a

detached act, declaration. conversation, or writing‘ is given in
evidence, any other act, declaration, or writing, which is necessary to make it fully understood, or to explain the same, may
also be given in evidence.

S301‘. 320. When an instrument consists partly of written I
and partly of printed form, the former controls the latter,}
where the two are inconsistent.

SECT. 321. When the terms of an agreement have been‘
intended in a different sense by the parties to it, that sense is ‘
to prevail against either», party in which he had reason to
suppose the other under’-s.t‘oQ<'l:i.t;. _

SECT. 322. Historical woi-ks',,Bb_ok.s, of science or art, and‘
published maps or charts, when i"n'a’dc:'Ey,-persons indifferent:
between the parties, are presumptive ‘e.vidf:ii_ce ,of facts of
general notoriety or interest. " ‘  

SECT. 323. When a subscribing witness deri'rer§',:or:jdoes‘
not recollect the execution of the instrument to wliiéh*'h;is,.
name is subscribed as such witness, its execution may be
proved by other evidence.

SECT. 324. Evidence respecting handwriting may be given
by comparisons made by experts or by the jury with writings
of the same persons, which are proved to be genuine.

SECT. 325. The’ entries and other writings of a person
deceased, made at or near the time of the transaction, and in
a position to know the facts therein stated, are presumptive
evidence of such facts, when the entry was made against
the interest of the person so making it, or when made in a
professional capacity, or in the ordinary course of professional
conduct, or when made in the performance of a duty specially enjoined by law.

SECT. 326. Books of account, containing charges by one
party against the other, made in the ordinary course of
business, are receivable in evidence only under the following
circumstances, subject to all just exceptions to their credibility: 1. The books must show a continuous dealing with
persons generally, or several items of charges at different
times against’ the other party, in the same book. 2. It must
be shown by the party’s oath, or otherwise, that they are his
books of original entries. 3. It must. be shown, in like manner,
that the charges were made at or near the time of the transaction therein entered, unless satisfactory reasons appear for

not making such proof. 4. The charges must also be verified
by the party or the clerk who made the entries, to the effect
that they believe them just and true, or a sufficient reason
must be given why the verification is not made.

SECT. 327. Every private writing, except a last will and
testament, after being acknowledged or proved and certified
in the manner prescribed for the proof of acknowledgment of
conveyances of real property, may be read in evidence without further proof.

SECT. 328. The judge of the cqugt is a competent witness
for either party, and may be ;s\jv'e_rri..i1pon the trial. But in
such -a case it is in h.is'.‘d'rsc§retion to order the trial to be
postponed or sus_p_e{ided,'~.i§nd to take place before another
judge. " 

SEc'J.‘_.-3329:‘. The usual protest by a notary public, without
p_roof,°._<'I_t'}.li'is'.signature or notarial seal, is evidence of the
_<i_sho'nOr and notice of a bill of exchange or promissory note.

CHAPTER II.——MEAN8 or PRODUCING Wrrmszssrazs.

SECT. 330. The clerks of the several district courts, and
judges of the other courts, shall, on application of any person
having a cause or any matter pending iricourt, issue a subpoena for witnesses under the seal of the court, inserting all
the names required by the applicant in one subpoena, which
may be served by any person not interested in the action, or
by the sheriff, coroner, or constable; but when served by any
person other than a public officer, proof of service shall be
shown by affidavit; but no costs of serving the same shall be
allowed except when served by an officer.

SECT. 331. The subpoena shall be directed to the person
therein named, requiring him to attend at a particular time
and place, to testify as a witness; and it may contain a
clause, directing the witness to bring with him any book,
writing, or other thing under his control, which he is bound

by law to produce as evidence.
SECT. 332." When the attendance of the witness before
any officer, authorized to take depositions, is required, the

subpoena shall be issued by such officer.
SECT. 333. The subpoena shall be served either by reading
or by copy, delivered to the witness, or left at his usual place

of residence; but such copy need not contain the name of
any other witness.

SECT. 334. A witness shall not be obliged to attend for
examination on the trial of a civil action, except in the county
of his residence, nor to attend to give his deposition out of
the county where he resides, or where he may be when the
subpoena is served upon him.

SECT. 335. A witness may demand his travelling fees, and
fee for one day’s attendance, when the subpoena is served
upon him, and if the same be not paid, the witness shall not
be obliged to obey the svibpcéna. ‘ The fact of such demand
and non-payment shall be statedvyfngghe return.

81-101‘. 336. Disobedience of A s‘1'.bp,a’ai_ng,,or a refusal to be
sworn, or to answer as a witness, or to s1i;=3sc:u‘t3e a deposition,
when lawfully ordered, may be punished as tr contempt of the
court or officer, by whom his attendance or test.im.z§r_ry:_is required. 7 

S301‘. 337. When a witness fails to attend in obedience to
a. subpoena (except in case of a demand and failure to pay
his fees), the court or officer before whom his attendance is
required, may issue an attachment to the sheriff, coroner, or
constable of the county, commanding him to arrest and bring
the person therein named, before the court or officer, at a
time and place to be fixed in the attachment, to give his testimony and answer for the contempt. If the attachment be
not for immediately bringing the witness before the court or
officer, a sum may be fixed in which the witness may give an
undertaking with surety for his appearance. Such sum shall
be indorsed on the back of the attachment, and if no such
sum is fixed and indorsed, it shall be one hundred dollars. If
the witness be not personally served, the court may, by a rule,
order him to show cause why an attachment should not issue
against him.

SECT. 338. The punishment for the contempt mentioned
in section three hundred and thirty-six, shall be as follows:

When the witness fails to attend, in obedience to the subpoena (except in case of a demand and failure to pay his
fees), the court or officer may fine the witness in a sum not
exceeding fifty dollars. In other cases, the court or officer
may fine a witness in a sum not exceeding fifty nor less than
five dollars, or may imprison in the county jail, there to remain until he shall submit to be sworn, testify, or give his
deposition. The fine imposed by the court, and that imposed
by the officer, shall be paid into the common school fund of
the county. The witness shall also be liable to the party
injured, for any damages occasioned by his failure to attend,
or his refusal to be sworn, testify, or give his deposition.

SECT. 339. A witness so imprisoned by an officer before
whomohis deposition is being taken, may apply to a judge of
the supreme court, district court, or county court, who shall
have power to discharge him, if jtoppear that his imprisonment is illegal. _  :'_.'

SECT. 340. Every g.tta.c.hm_erit° for the arrest or order of
commitment to pri_s9'1i-,o‘F-£2. witness, by a court or officer, pursuant to this c.‘Fm.]1fei‘,'lnust be under the seal of the court. or
officer,.,it_”'.l1e°-,l1a've.an official seal, and must specify particularlyfztlixfzcéuse of the arrest or commitment; and if the comIflheuieht be for refusing to answer a question, such question
’-must be stated in the order. Such order of commitment
may be directed to the sheriff, coroner, or any constable of
the county where such witness resides or may be at the time,
and shall be executed by committing him to the jail of such
county, and delivering a copy of the order to the jailer.

SECT. 341. A person confined in any prison in this territory may, by order of any court of record, be required to be
produced for oral examination in the county where he is imprisoned; but in all other cases his examination must be by
deposition.
' SECT. 342. While a prisoner’s deposition is being taken,
he shall remain in the custody of the officer having him in
charge, who shall afford reasonable facilities for the taking of
the deposition.

SECT. 343. A witness shall not be liable to be sued in a
county in which he does not reside, by being served with a
summons in such county while going, returning, or attending
in obedience to a subpoena. .

SECT. 344. At the commencement of each day after the
first day, a witness may demand his fees, for that day’s attendance, in obedience to a subpoena, and if the same be not
paid, he shall not be required to remain.

SECT. 345. Before testifying, the witness shall be sworn to

testify the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.

The mode of administering an oath shall be such as is most
binding upon the conscience of the Witness.

CHAPTER III. Mom: or TAKING THE TESTIMONY or WITNESSE8.—Article 1. Ajidavit.—2. Deposition.

SECT. 346. The testimony of witnesses is taken in three
modes: 1. By affidavit. 2. By deposition. '3. By oral examination. .

SECT. 347. An affidavit is a written declaration under
oath, made without notice to the adverse party. _

SECT. 348. A deposition is a written declaration under
oath, made upon notice of the adverse party for the purpose
of enabling him to attend and cross-examine; or upon written
interrogatories. -V

SECT. 349. An oral examination is an examination in the
presence of the jury or tribunal which is to decide the fact or
act upon it, the testimony being heard by the jury or tribunal
from the lips of the witness.

ARTICLE I. — Anrmxvrr.

SECT. 350. An affidavit may be used to verify a pleading,
to prove the service of a summons, notice, or other process in
an action, to obtain a provisional remedy, an examination of
a witness, a stay of proceedings or upon a motion, and in any
other case permitted by law.

SECT. 351. An aliidavit may be made in and out of this
territory before any person authorized to take depositions, and
must be authenticated in the same way, except as provided
in section one hundred and eight.

ARTICLE II. Dm>osr'rroxs.-Subdivision 1. When to be used.—2. Ojicers who
may take them.—3. Manncrq/' taking and authenticating t}acm.—4. Ecceptions to

Depociliom,

Sunmvrsxox 1.— When to be used.

S301‘. 352. The deposition of any witness may be used,
only in the following cases: 1. When the witness does not
reside in the county where the action or proceeding is pending, or is sent for trial, by change of venue; or is absent

therefiom. 2. When, from age, infirmity, or imprisonment,
the witness is unable to attend court, or is dead. 3. When
the testimony is required upon a motion, or in an othe
‘ 
SECT. 353. Either party may commence taking testimony
by depositions, at any time after service upon the defendants.

SUBDIVISION 2. — Ojicers who may take them.

SECT. 354. Depositions may be taken in this territory,
before a judge or clerk of the supreme court, the district court
or county court, before a justice of the peace, notary public,
mayor, or chief magistrate of any city or town corporate, or
before a master commissioner, or any person empowered by
a special commission ; but depositions taken in this territory,
to be used therein, must be taken by an officer or person
whose authority is derived within the territory.

SECT. 355. Depositions may be taken out of the territory
by a judge, justice, or chancellor of any court of record, a
justice of the peace, notary public,.mayor or chief magistrate
of any city or town corporate, a commissioner appointed by
the governor of this territory to take depositions, or any person authorized by a special commission from this territory.

SECT. 356. The officer before whom depositions are
taken, must not be a relative or attorney of either party, or
otherwise interested in the event of the action or proceeding.

SECT. 357. Any court of record of this territory, or any
judge thereof, is authorized to grant a commission to take depositions within or without the territory. The commission
must be issued to a person or persons therein named, by the
clerk, under the seal of the court granting the same, and depositions under it must be taken upon written interrogations,
unless the parties otherwise agree. 1 '

SUB_DrvIsIoN 3. — Manrzer Q/' taking and authenticating them.‘

SECT. 358. Prior to the taking of any deposition, unless
taken under a special commission, a written notice, specifying
the action or proceeding, the name of the court or tribunal in
which it is to be used, and-the time and place of taking the
same, shall be served upon the adverse party, his agent, or attorney of record, or left at his usual place of abode. The
notice shall be served so as to allow the adverse party sufficient time, by the usual route of travel, to attend, and one
day for preparation, exclusive of Sundays and the day of service, and the examination may, if so stated in the notice, be
adjourned from day to day.

SECT. 359. When the party against whom the deposition‘
is to be read, is absent from, or a non-resident of the territory,
and has no agent, or attorney of record therein, he may be
notified of the taking of the deposition by publication. The
publication must be’ made three consecutive weeks, in some
newpaper printed in the county where the action or proceeding is pending, if there be any printed in such county; and if
not, in some newspaper printed in this territory, of general
circulation in that county. The publication must. contain all
that is required in a written notice, and may be proved in the
manner prescribed in séction seventy-two.

SECT. 360. The deposition shall be written in the pres-,
enoe of the officer taking the same, either by the officer, the;
witness, or some disinterested person, and subscribed by the
witness. '

SECT. 361. The deposition so taken shall be sealed up and :
indorsed with the title of the cause and the name of the officer?
taking the same, and by him addressed and transmitted to
the clerk of the court where the action or proceeding is pending. It shall remain under seal until opened by the clerk, by
order of the court, or at the request of a party to the action
or proceeding, or his attorney.

SBCT. 362. Depositions taken pursuant to this article shall
be admitted in evidence, on the trial of any civil action or
proceeding, pending before any justice of the peace, mayor,
or other judicial officer of a city, or town corporate, or before
any arbitrators or referees, and such deposition shall be sealed
up, indorsed with the title of the action or proceeding, the
name of the officer taking the same, and addressed and transmitted by such officer to such justice, mayor, or other judicial
ohiuer, arbitrator, or referees.

SECT. 363. When a deposition has once been taken, it
may be read in any stage of the same action or proceeding,
or in any other action or proceeding upon the same matter,
between the same parties, subject, however, to all such exceptions as may be taken thereto under the provisions of this
title.

SECT. 364. Depositions taken pursuant to this article, by
any judicial or other officer herein authorized to take depositions, having a seal of office, whether resident in this territory.or elsewhere, shall be admitted in evidence upon the
certificate and signature of such officer, under the seal of the
court of which he is an officer, or his ofiicial seal, and no
other or further act or authentication shall be required. If
the'officer taking the same have no official seal, the deposition, if nbt taken in this territory, shall be certified and signed
by such officer, and shall be further authenticated, either by
parol proof, adduced in court, or by the official certificate and
seal of any secretary or other officer of state keeping the great
seal thereof, or of the clerk or prothonotary of any court
having a seal, attesting that such judicial or other officer was,
at the time of taking of the same, within the meaning of
this chapter, authorized to take the same. But, if the deposition be taken within this territory by an officer having no
seal, or within or without this territory, under a special
commission, it shall be sufficiently authenticated by the
official signature of the officer or commissioner taking the
same.

SECT. 365. The officer taking the deposition shall annex
thereto a"certificate showing the following facts: That the
witness was first sworn to testify the truth, the whole truth,
and nothing but the truth. That the deposition was reduced
to writing by some proper person (naming him). That the
deposition was written and subscribed in the presence of the
officer certifying thereto. That the deposition was taken at

_the time and place specified in the notice.

SECT. 366. When a deposition is offered to be read in
evidence, it must appear to the satisfaction of the court, that
for any cause specified in section three hundred and fifty-two,
the attendance of the witness cannot be procured. .

SECT. 367. Every deposition intended to be read in evidence on the trial; must be filed at least one day before the

trial.

SECT. 368. °The following fees shall be allowed for taking
depositions in the territory, namely: Swearing each witness,
five cents; for each subpoena, attachment, or order of commitment, fifty cents; for each hundred words contained in
such deposition and certificate, ten cents and no more; and

such officer may retain the same until such fees are paid.
Such officer shall also tax the costs of the sheriff, or other
officer, who shall serve the process aforesaid, and fees of the
witnesses, and may also, if directed by the persons entitled
thereto, retain such deposition until the said fees are paid.

Svnnrvrqron 4.-Ea:cep¢£ons to Depositiom.

SECT. 369. Exceptions to depositions shall be in writing,
specifying the grounds of objection, and filed with the papers
in the cause. ,

SECT. 370. No exception other than for incompetency or
irrelevancy shall be regarded, unless made and filed before
the commencement of the trial.

SECT. 371. The court shall, on motion of either party,
hear and decide the questions arising on exceptions to depositions, before the commencement of the trial.

SECT. 372. Errors of the court in its decisions upon exceptions to depositions are waived unless excepted to.

CHAPTER IV.—Amuss1oN, Ixsmccrrox, AND PRODUCTION or
.DOCUMENTS, AND GENERAL Prcovrsroxs.

SE01’. 3'73. Either party may exhibit to the other or to
his attorney, any time before the trial, any paper or document
material to the action, and request an admission of writing
in genuineness. If the adverse party or his attorney fail to
give the admission in writing, within four days after the
request, and if the party exhibiting the paper or document
be afterwards put to any cost or expense to prove its genuineness, and the same be finally proved or admitted on the trial,
such costs and expenses, to be ascertained at the trial, shall
be paid by the party refusing to make the admission, unless
it,shall appear, to the satisfaction of the court, that there were
good reasons for the refusal. '

SECT. 374. Either party, or his attorney, may demand of
the adverse party, an inspection and copy, or permission to
take a copy of a book, paper,‘ or document, in his possession
or under his control, containing evidence relating to the
merits of the action or defense therein. Such demand shall
be in writing, specifying the book, paper, or document, with
sufficient particularity to enable the other party to distinguish

it, and if compliance with the demand within four days be.
refused, the court or judge, on motion and notice to the
adverse party, may in their discretion order the adverse party
to give the other, within a specified time, an inspection and
copy or permission to take a copy _of such book, paper, or
document; and on failure to comply with such order, the
court may exclude the paper or document from. being given
in evidence, or if wanted as evidence by the party applying,
may direct the jury to_ presumeit to be such, as the party by
affidavit alleges it to be. This section is not to be construed
to prevent a party from compelling anotherito produce any
book, paper, or document when he is examined as a witness.
SECT. 375. Either party, or his attorney, if required, shall
deliver to the other party or his attorney, a copy of any deed,
instrument, or other writing, whereon the action or defense
is founded, or which he intends to offer in evidence at the
trial. If the plaintifff or defendant shall refuse to furnish the
copy or copies required, the party so refusing shall not be
permitted to give in evidence at the trial, the original, of

which a copy has been refused. This section shall not apply to any paper, a copy of which is filed with the pleading.

SECT. 376. Printed copies in volumes of statutes, code, or
other written law, enacted by any other territory or state, or
foreign government, purporting or proved to have been published by the authority thereof, or proved to be commonly
admitted as evidence of the existing law in the courts or
tribunals of such territory, state, or government, shall be
admitted by the courts and officers of this territory on all
occasions, as presumptive evidence of such laws. The
unwritten or common law of any other territory, state, or
foreign government, may’ be proved as facts by parol evidence; and the books of reports of cases adjudged in their
courts may also be admitted as presumptive evidence of
such law.

CHAPTER V.—PROCEI-JDINGS ro P1-mpnrvxrrr. Tssrmoxr.

SECT. 377. The testimony of a witness may be perpetuated in the following manner.

SECT. 378. The applicant shall file in the office of the
clerk of the district court a petition, to be verified, in which

shall be set forth, specially, the subject-matter, relative to
which testimony is to be taken, and the names of the persons
interested, if known to the applicant; and if not known, such
general description as he can give of such persons, as heirs,
devisees, alienees, or otherwise. The petition shall also state
the names of the witnesses to be examined, and the interrogatories to be propounded to each; that the applicant expects
to be a party to an action in a court of this territory, in
which such testimony will, as he believes, be material, and
the obstacles preventing the immediate commencement of
the action, where the applicant expects to be plaintifff.

SECT. 379. ‘The court or judge 'thereof, may forthwith,
make an order allowing the examination of such witnesses.
The order shall prescribe the time and place of the examination, how long the parties interested shall be notified thereof,
and the manner in which they shall be notified. '

SECT. 380. When it appears satisfactorily to the court or
judge that the parties interested cannot be personally notitied, such court or judge shall appoint a competent attorney
to examine the petition and prepare and file cross interrogatories to those contained therein. The witnesses shall be
examined upon the interrogatories of the applicant, and upon
cross interrogatories, where they are required to be prepared,
and no others shall be propounded to them; nor shall any
statement be received which is not responsive to some one of
them. The attorney filing the cross interrogatories shall be
allowed a reasonable fee therefore, to be taxed in the bill of costs.

SECT. 381. Such depositions shall be taken before some
one authorized by law to take depositions, or before some one
specially authorized bylthe court or judge, and shall be"returned to the clerk’s office of the court in which the petition
was filed. '

SECT. 382. The court or judge, if satisfied that the depositions have been properly taken, and as herein required, shall
approve the same and order them to be filed; and if a trial
he had between the parties named in the petition, or their
privies or successors in interest, such depositions, or certified
copies thereof, may be given in evidence by either party,
where the-witnesses are dead or insane, or where their attendance for oral examination cannot be obtained or required;
but such depositions shall be subject to the same objections

for irrelevancy and incompetency as may be made to depositions taken pending an action.

SECT. 383. The applicant shall pay the costs of all proceedings under this chapter.

TITLE XI.

JUDGMENT.

CHAPTER I. Judgment in G'eneral.—II. Judgment upon Failure to Answer.—III. Judgment by C'onfession.—IV. Manner of giving and
entering Judgment. — V. Conveyance by Commissioners.

CHAPTER I.—JUDGMEN'r IN GENERAL.

'SEC'1‘. 384. A judgment is the final determination of the
rights of the parties in action.

SECT. 385. Judgment may be given for oragainst one or
more of several plaintifffs, and for or against one or more of
several defendants; it may determine the ultimate rjghts of
the parties on either side, as between themselves, and it may
grant to the defendant any affirmative relief to which he may
be entitled. In an action against several defendants, the
court may, at its discretion, render judgment against one or

‘more of them, leaving the action to proceed against the

others, whenever a several judgment may be proper. The
court may also dismiss the petition with costs, in favor of
one or more defendants, in case of unreasonable neglect on
the part of the plaintifff to serve the summons on other defendants, or to proceed in the cause against the defendant or
defendants served.

SECT. 386. An action may be dismissed without prejudice
to a future action. 1. By the plaintifff before the final submission of the case to the jury, or to the court, where the
trial is by the court. 2. By the court, where the plaintifff fails
to appear on the trial. 3. By the court, for want of necessary
parties. 4. By the court, on the application of some of the
defendants, where there are others whom the plaintifff fails to
prosecute with diligence. 5. By the court, for disobedience
by th_e plaintifff of an order concerning the proceedings in the
action. In all other cases, upon the trial of the action, the
decision must be upon the merits.

SI-JCT. 387. In any case where a set-off or counterclaim!
has been presented, the defendant shall have the right of pro- ‘
ceeding to the trial of his claim, although the plaintifff may
have dismissed the action, or failed to appear.

CHAPTER H.-—JUDGMI-INT UPON FAILURE TO ANSWER.

SECT. 388. If the taking of an account, or the proof of a‘
fact, or the assessment of damages be necessary to enable the‘
court to pronounce judgment upon a failure to answer, or
after a decision of an issue of law, the court may, with assent
of the party not in default, take the account, hear the proof,
or assess the damages; or may, with the like assent, refer the
same to a referee or master commissioner, or may direct the
same to be ascertained or assessed by a jury. If a jury be

ordered, it shall be on or after the day on which the action is
set for trial.

CHAPTER III.—JUnGm:x'r BY Com-"1-zssrox.

S301‘. 389. Any person indebted, or against whom a cause;
of action exists, may personally appear in a court of competent jurisdiction, and, with the assent of the creditor, or person having cause of action, confess judgment therefore; whereupon judgment shall be entered accordingly. '

SBCT. 390. The debt or cause of action shall be briefly
stated in the judgment, or in a writing to be filed as pleadings
in other actions. 0 '

SECT. 391. Such judgment shall authorize same proceedings for its enforcement, as judgments rendered in actions

regularly brought and prosecuted; and the confession shall
operate as a release of errors.

SECT. 392. Every attorney, who shall confess judgment in
any case, shall, at the time of making such confession, produce the warrant of attorney for making the same, to the
court before which he makes the confession, and the original
or a copy of the warrant shall be filed with the clerk of the
court in which the judgment shall be entered. _

S301‘. 393. If any persdn be in custody in a civil action
at the suit of another, no warrant of attorney executed by the
person in custody, to confess judgment in favoiof the person

at whose suit he is in custody, shall be of any force, unless
some attorney expressly named by the person in custody, be
present and sign the warrant of attorney as Witness.

CHAPTER IV.-—MANNER or GIVING AND ENTERING JUDGMENT.

SECT. 394. When a trial by jury has been had, judgment
must be rendered by the clerk in conformity to the verdict,
unless it is special, or the court order the case to be reserved
for future argument or consideration.

SECT. 395. Where the verdict is special, or where there
has been a special finding or particular questions of fact, or
where the court has ordered the case to be reserved, it shall
order what judgment shall be entered. ,

SECT. 396. Where, upon the statement in the pleadings,
one party is entitled by law to judgment in his favor, judgment shall be so rendered by the court, though a verdict has
been found against such party.

SECT. 397. If the counterclaim or set-off, established at
the trial, exceeds the plaintiff’s claim so established, judgment
for the defendant must be given for the excess; or if it appear
that the defendant is entitled to any affirmative relief, judgment shall be given therefore.

SECT. 398. It shall not be necessary to reserve'in a judgmentor order, the right of an infant to show cause against
it, after his attaining full age; but in any case in which, but
for this section, such reservation would ‘have been proper,
the infant, within one year after arriving at the age of twentyone years, may show cause against such order or judgment.

SECT. 399. All judgments and orders must be entered on
the journal of the court, and specify clearly the relief granted
or order made in the action. ,

SECT. 400. The clerk shall make a complete record of
every cause, as soon as it is finally determined, unless such
record or some part thereof be duly waived.

SECT. 401. He shall make up such record in each case, in
the vacation next after the term at which the same was determined, and the presiding judge of such court shall, at its next
term thereafter,‘ subscribe the same. .

SECT. 402. The records shall be made up from the petition, the procgss, return, the pleadings subsequent thereto,

reports, verdicts, orders, judgments, and all material acts and
proceedings of the court; but if the items of an account
or the copies of a paper attached to the pleadings be voluminous, the court may order the record to be made by abbreviating the same, or inserting a pertinent description thereof,
or by omitting them entirely. Evidence must not be recorded. '

SI-:01‘. 403. When the judicial acts or other proceedings of .
any court have not been regularly brought up and recordedi
by the clerk thereof, such court shall cause the same to be
made up and recorded within such time as it may direct.
When they are made up, and upon examination found to be
correct, the presiding judge of such court shall subscribe the
same.

SECT. 404. No complete record shall be made:  In criminal prosecutions where the indictment has been quashed, or
where the prosecuting attorney shall have entered a nolle
prosequi on the indictment. 2. In cases where an action has
been dismissed without prejudice to a future action. 3. In
actions in which, in open court, at the term at which the final
order of judgment shall be made, both parties shall declare
their agreement that no record shall be made.

S301‘. 405. In cases where an action has been dismissed
without prejudice to a future action, the clerk shall make a
complete record_of the proceedings, upon being paid for making the same by the party desiring the record to be made.

SECT. 406. A complete record shall be made in the case
mentioned in section three hundred and eighty-seven, unless
waived by the parties.

CHAPTER V.—CoNvEYANoE BY COMMISSIONERS.

S1-:c'r. 407. Real property may be conveyed by master
commissioners as hereinafter provided: 1. When by an order
or judgment in an action or proceeding, a party is ordered to
convey such property to-another, and he shall neglect or re{use to comply with such order or judgment. 2. When specific real property is required to be sold under an order or
judgment of the court. , '

SHOT. 408. A sheriff may act as master commissioner
under the second subdivision of the preceding section. Sales

made under the same shall conform in all respects to the laws
regulating sales of land upon execution.

SECT. 409. The deed of a master commissioner shall contain the like recital, and shall be executed, acknowledged, and

recorded, as the deed of a sheriff, of real property sold under
execution. .

TITLE XII.

CAUSES OF ACTION WHICH SURVIVE, AND ABATEMENT OF
ACTIONS.

SECT. 410. In addition to the causes of action which survive at common law, causes of action for mesne profits, or
for an injury to real or personal estate, or for any deceit or
fraud, shall also survive, and the action may be brought notwithstanding the death of the person entitled or liable to the
same. '

SECT. 411. No action pending in any ‘court shall abate by l

the death of either or both the parties thereto, except an action for libel, slander, malicious prosecution, assault, or assault and battery, for a nuisance, or against a justice of the

peace for misconduct in oliice, which shall abate by the
death of the defendant.

TITLE XIII.

REVIVOR.

CHAPTER L Revivor of Actions. —II. Revivor and New Parties to
Judgment.

CHAPTER I.-—REVIVOR or Acrrons.

SECT. 412. Where there are several plaintifffs or defendants in an action, and one of them dies, or his powers as a
personal representative cease, if the right of action survive to
or against the remaining parties, the action may proceed; the.
death of the party, or the cessation of his powers, being stated
on the record. ‘

SECT. 413. Where one of several plaintifffs or defendants
dies, or his powers as a,personal representative cease, if the

cause of action do not admit of a survivorship, and the court
is of opinion, that the merits of the controversy can be properly determined, and the principles applicable to the case fully
settled, it may proceed to try the same as between the
remaining J parties; but the judgment shall not prejudice any
who were not parties at the time of thetrial.

S801‘. 414. When one of the parties to an action dies, or
his powers as a personal representative cease before the
judgment, if the right of action survive in favor of, or against
his representatives or successor, the action may be revived,
and proceed in their names.

SECT. 415. The revivor shall be, by a conditional order of
the court, if made in term, or by a judge thereof, if made in
vacation, that the action be revived in the names of the representatives, or successor of the party who died, or whose

. powers ceased, and proceed in favor of, or against them.

SECT. 416. The order may be made on motion of the
adverse party, or of the representatives‘ or successor of the
party who died, or whose powers ceased, suggesting his death,
or the cessation of his powers, which, with the names and
capacities of his representatives or successor, shall be stated
in the order.

SKCT. 417. If the order is made byconsent of the parties, .

the action shall forthwith stand revived; and if not made
by consent, the order shall be served in the same manner, and
returned within the same time as a summons, upon the party
adverse to the one making the motion, and if sufficient cause
be not shown against the revivor, the action shall stand
revived. SECT. 418. When the plaintifff shall make an affidavit,
that the representatives of the defendant, or any of them in
whose name the action may be ordered to be revived, are
non-residents of the territory, or have left the same to avoid
the service of the order, or so concealed themselves that the
order cannot be served upon them, or that the names and
residence of the heirs or devisees of the person against whom
the action may be ordered to be revived, or some of them,
are unknown to the afliant, a notice maybe published for
four consecutive weeks, as provided by section sixty-nine,
notifying them to appear on a day therein named, not less
than ten days after the publication is complete, and show

cause why the action should not be revived against them;
and if sufficient cause be not shown to the contrary, the action shall stand revived.

SECT. 419. ‘Upon the death of a plaintifff in an action, it
may be revived in the names of his representatives, to whom

his right has passed. Where his right has passed to his personal representative, the revivor shall be in his name; where
it has passed to his heirs or devisees, who could support the
action if brought anew, the revivor may be in their names.

SECT. 420. Upon the death of a defendant in an action,
wherein the right, or any part thereof, survives against his
personal representative, the revivor shall be against him; and
it may also be against the heirs or devisees of the defendant,
or both, when the right of action or any part thereof survives
against them.

SECT. 421. Upon the death of a defendant in an action
for the recovery of real property only, or which concerns
only his rights or claims to such property, the action may be
revived against his heirs or devisees, or both, and an order
therefore may be forthwith made, in the manner directed in
the preceding sections of this title.

SECT. 422. An order to revive an action against the representatives or successor of a defendant, shall not be made
without the consent of such representatives or successor,
unless in one year from the time it could have been first
made.

SECT. 423. An order to revive an action in the names of
the representatives or successor of a plaintifff, may be made
forthwith, but shall not be made without the consent of the
defendant, after the expiration of one year from the time the
order might have been first made; but where the defendant
shall also have died, or his power have ceased in the mean
time, the order of revivor on both sides may be made in the
period limited in the last section.

SECT. 424. When it appears to the court by affidavit, that
either party to an action has been dead, or where a party
sues, or is sued as a personal representative, that his powers
have ceased for a period so long that the action cannot be
received [revived] in the names of his representative or successor, without the consent of both parties, it shall order the
action to be stricken from the docket.

SECT. 425. At any term of the court succeeding the death .
of the plaintifff, while the action remains on the docket, the}
defendant, having given to the plaintilT’s proper representatives, in whose names the action might be revived, ten days’
notice of the application therefore, may have an order to strike
the action from the docket, and for costs against the estate of
the plaintifff, unless the action is forthwith revived.

S1-:01‘. 426. When, by the - provisions of the preceding
sections, an action stands revived, the trial thereof shall not
be postponed by reason of the revivor, if the action would
have stood for trial at the term the revivor is complete, bad
no death or cessation of powers taken place.

SJHAPTER H.—REVIVOR AND NEW Psnrms 'ro JUDGMENT.

SECT. 427. When a judgment is recovered against oge or
more persons, jointly indebted upon contract, those who were
not originally summoned may be made parties to the judgment by action.

SECT. 428. If either or both the parties die after judgment,
and before satisfaction thereof, their representatives, real or
personal, or both, as the case may require, may be made
parties to the same, in the same m'anner as prescribed for
reviving actions before judgment; and such judgment may
be rendered and execution awarded as might or ought to be
given or awarded against the representatives, real or personal,
or both, of such deceased party.

SECT. 429. If a judgment becomes dormant, it may be
revived in the same manner as prescribed for reviving actions
before judgment.

TITLE XIV.

EXECUTIONS.

CHAPTER I. Executions against the Property of a Judgment Debtor.II. Proceedings in aid of Execution.~III. Executions against the Person.— IV. Executions for the delivery of Real Property.-V. Judgment before Justices of the Peace.

SECT. 430. Executions shall be deemed process of the
court, and shall be issued by the clerk and directed to the

sheriff of the county. They may be directed to different
counties at the same time.

SECT. 431. Executions are of three kinds: 1. Against the
property of the judgment debtor. 2. For the delivery of the
possession of real property, with damages for withholding the
same, and costs.

CHAPTER I.—-EXECUTION8 AGAINST THE PROPERTY or run June’ MENT D1-znron.

SECT. 432. Lands, tenements, goods, and chattels, not
exempt by law, shall be subject to the payment of debts, and
shall be liable to be taken on execution, and sold as hereinafter provided. _
SECT. 433. All lands, as well as goods and chattels of the
debtor, not exempt by law from levy, seizure, and sale under

.an1axecution, shall be bound from the time they shall be

seized in execution.

SECT. 434. If execution shall not be sued out within five
years from the date of any judgment, that now is or may
hereafter be rendered in any court of record in this territory;
or if five years shall have intervened between the date of the
last execution issued on such judgment and the time of
sueing out another writ of execution thereon, such judgment
shall become dormant, and shall cease to operate as a lien on
the estate of the judgment debtor.

SECT. 435. The writ of execution against the property of
the judgment debtor, issuing from any court of record in this
territory, shall command the officer, to whom it is directed,
that of the goods and chattels of the debtor, he cause to be
made the money specified in the writ; and for want of goods
and chattels, be cause the same to be made of the lands and
tenements of the debtor; and the exact amount of the debt,
damages, and costs, for which the judgment is entered, shall
be indorsed on the execution.

SECT. 436. When two or more writs of execution against
the same debtor shall be sued out during the term in which
judgment was rendered, or within ten days thereafter, and
when two or more writs of execution against the same debtor
shall be delivered to the officer on the same day, no preference
shall be given to either of such writs; but if a sufficient sum

of money be not made to satisfy all executions, the amount
made shall be distributed to the several creditors in proportion
to the amount of their respective demands. In all other
cases the writ of execution first delivered to the officer shall

be first satisfied. And it shall be the duty of the officer to
indorse on every Writ of execution the time when he received

the same. No judgment shall be a lien upon the lands, goods,
or chattels of a judgment debtor, until said lands, goods, or
chattels shall be levied upon or seized in execution.

S301‘. 437. The officer to whom a writ of execution is
delivered, shall proceed immediately to levy the. same upon‘

the goods and chattels of the debtor; but if no goods and
chattels can be found, the officer shall indorse on the writ of
execution, “no goods,” and forthwith levy the writ of execution upon the lands and tenements of the debtor, which may
be liable to satisfy the judgment.

S801‘. 438. If the officer, by virtue of any writ of execution, issued from any court of record in this territory, shall

levy the same on any goods and chattels claimed by any«

person other than the defendant, it shall be the duty of said
officer forthwith to give notice in writing. to some justice of
the peace in the county, in which shall be set forth the names
of the plaintifff‘ and defendant, together with the name of the
claimant; and at the same time he shall furnish the said
justice of the peace with a schedule 'of the property claimed.
And it shall be the duty of such justice of the peace, immediately upon the receipt of such notice and schedule, to make
an entry of the same upon his docket, and issue a writ of
summons, directed to the sheriff, or any constable of the
county, commanding him t.o summon five disinterested men,
having the qualifications of electors, who shall be named in
said summons, to appear before him, the said justice, at the
time and place therein mentioned, which time shall not be
more than three days after the date of said writ, to try and
determine the right of the claimant to the property in controversy. And it shall be the duty of the claimant to give two
days’ notice, in writing, to the plaintifff or other party for
whose benefit such execution was issued and levied as aforesaid, his agent or attorney, if within the county, of the time
and place of such trial ; and he shall, moreover, prove to the
satisfaction of said justice that such notice was given, or that

the same could not be given by reason of the absence of the

party, his agent or attorney.
SECT. 439. The jury summoned as aforesaid, shall be

i sworn to try and determine the right of the claimant to the

property in controversy, and a true verdict to give, according
to the evidence. If the jury shall find the right to said goods
and chattels, or any part thereof, to be in the claimant, they
shall also find the value thereof, and the justice shall render
judgment upon such finding of the jury, for the claimant, that
he recover’ his costs against the plaintifff in execution, or other
party to the same, for whose benefit the execution issued, and
also that he have restitution of said goods and chattels, or
any part thereof, according to the finding of the jury. But if
the right of the said goods and chattels, and every part
thereof, shall not be in the claimant according to the finding
of said jury, then the said justice shall render judgment on
such finding, in favor of the plaintifff in execution, or other
party for whose benefit the same was issued and levied,
against_said claimant for costs, and award execution thereon.

Such justice of the peace, in the taxation of costs accruing
by reason of such claim and trial, shall allow each juror summoned and sworn, the sum of fifty cents; and for the sheriff,

constable, or other officer, and witnesses, and for himself, he

shall tax such fees as are allowed by law, to each, respectively, for like services ‘rendered in other cases. Such judgment,for the claimant (unless an undertaking shall be executed, as provided in the next section), shall be a justification

of the officer in returning “no goods” to the writ of execution, by virtue of which the levy has been made, as to such

part of the goods and chattels as were found to belong to

such claimant.

SECT. 440. If the jury shall find the property or any part
thereof to be in the claimant, and the plaintifff in execution
shall, at any time within three days after such trial, tender to
the sheriff or other officer having such property in his custody
on execution, an undertaking _with good and sufficient sureties, payable to such claimant, in double the amount of the
value of such property as assessed by the jury, to the effect
that they will pay all damages sustained by reason of the
detention or sale of such property, then the sheriff or other
officer shall deliver said undertaking to claimant, and proceed

to sell such property, as if no such trial of the right of property had taken place, and shall not be liable to the claimant

therefore.
Seer. 441. In all cases where a sheriff, coroner, or other

-officer shall, by virtue of an execution, levy upon any goods

and chattels, which shall remain upon his hands unsold, for
want of bidders, for the want of time ‘to advertise and sell,
or any other reasonable cause, the officer may, for his own
security, take of the defendant an undertaking, with security
in such sum as he may deem sufficient, to the effect that the
said property shall be delivered to the officer holding an execution for the sale of the same, at the time and place appointed by said officer, either by notice given _in writing to
said defendant in execution, or by advertisement, published in
a newspaper printed in the county, naming therein the day
and place of sale. If the defendant shall fail to deliver the
goods and chattels at the time and place mentioned in the
notice to him given, or to pay to the officer holding the execution the full value of said goods and chattels, or the
amount of said debt and costs, the undertaking, given as
aforesaid, shall be considered as broken, and may be proceeded on as in other cases.

SECT. 442. The officer who levies upon goods and chattels, by virtue of an execution issued. by a court of record,
before he proceeds to sell the same, shall cause public notice
to be given of the time and place of sale, for at least ten
days before the day of sale. The notice shall be given by
advertisement, published in some newspaper printed in the
county, or, in case no newspaper be printed thereij by setting up advertise-merl'ts_ in five public places in the county;
two advertisements shall be put up in the precinct where the
sale is to be held. And where goods and chattels levied upon
cannot be sold for want of bidders, the officer making such
return shall annex to the execution a true and perfect inventory of such goods and chattels; and the plaintifff in such
execution may thereupon sue out another writ of execution
directing the sale of the property levied upon as aforesaid;
but such goods and chattels shall not be sold, unless the time
and place of sale be advertised, as hereinbefore provided.

S301‘. 443. When any writ shall issue, directing the sale
of property previoiisly taken in execution, the officer issuing

said writ shall, at the request of the person entitled to the
benefit thereof, his agent or attorney, add thereto a command
to the officer to whom such writ shall be directed, that, if the
property remaining in his hands, not sold, shall, in his opinion,
be insufficient to satisfy.the judgment, he shall levy the same
upon the lands and tenements, goods and chattels, or either,
as the law shall permit, being the property of the judgment
debtor, sufiicient to satisfy the debt.

SECT. 444. If execution be levied on lands and tenements,
the officer levying such execution shall call an inquest of
three disinterested freeholders, who shall be resident within
the county where the lands taken in execution are situate,
and administer to them an oath, impartially to appraise the
property so levied upon, upon actual view; and such freeholders shall forthwith return to the said officer, under their
hands, an estimate of the real value, in money, of said

property.

SECT. 445. ‘The officer receiving such return shall forthwith deposit a copy thereof with the clerk of the court from
which the writ issued, and immediately advertise and sell
such real estate, agreeably to the provisions of this title.

SECT. 446. If, upon such return, as aforesaid, it appear,
by the inquisition, that two thirds of the appraised value of
said lands and tenements so levied upon is sufficient to satisfy
the execution, with costs, the judgment on which such execution issued shall not operate as a lien, on the residue of the
debtor’s estate, to the prejudice of any other judgment creditor.
But no tract of land shall be sold for less than two thirds of
the valuyeturned in the inquest: Provided, That nothing in
this section contained shall in anywise‘ extend to affect the
sale of lands by the territory, but all lands therein the property
of individuals, indebted to the territory for any debt or taxes,
or in any other manner, shall be sold without valuation, for
the discharge of such debt or taxes, agreeably to the laws for
such case made and provided.

SECT. 447. If the property of any clerk, sheriff, coroner,
justice of the peace, constable, or any collector of territorial,
county, town, or township tax, shall be levied on, for, or on
account of any monies that now are, or may hereafter be by
them collected or received, in their official capacity, the property so levied on shall be sold without valu'ation.

S801‘. 448. Lands and tenements, taken in execution,e
shall not be sold, until the officer cause public notice of the:
time and place of sale to be given, for at least thirty days‘
before the day of sale, by advertisement, in some newspaper
printed in the county, or, in case nonewspaper be printed in
the county, in some newspaper in general circulation therein,
and by putting up an advertisement upon the court house
door, and in five other public places in the county, two of
which shall be in the precinct where such lands and tenements lie. All sales made without such advertisement shall
be set aside, on motion, by the court to which the execution
is returnable.

S801‘. 449. If the court, upon the return of any writ of,
execution, for the satisfaction of which any lands and tene-j
ments have been sold, shall, after having carefully examined‘
the proceedings of the officer, be satisfied that the sale has, in
all respects, been made in conformity to the provisions of this
title, the court shall direct the clerk to make an entry on the
journal, that the court is satisfied of the legality of such sale,
and an order that the oHicer make to the purchaser a deed for
such land and tenements; and the officer, on. making such
sale, may retain the purchase-money in his hands, until the
court shall have examined his proceedings, as aforesaid, when
he shall pay the same to the person entitled thereto, agreeable
to the order of the court.

SBCT. 450. The sheriff or other officer, who, upon such
writ or writs of execution, shall sell the said lands and tenements, "or any part thereof, shall make to the purchaser or
purchasers thereof, as good and sufficient a deed of conveyance of lands and tenements sold, as the person or persons,
against whom such writ or writs of execution were issued,
could have made of the same, at, or any time after they
became liable to the judgment. The deed shall be sufficient
evidence of the legality of such sale, and the proceedings
therein, until the contrary be proved, and shall vest in the
purchaser as good and as perfect an estate in the premises
therein mentioned, as was vested in the party at or after the
time when such lands and tenements became liable to the
satisfaction of the judgment. And such deed of conveyance,
to be made by the sheriff, or other officer, shall recite the execution or executions, or the substance thereof, and the names of

the parties, the amount and date of term of rendition of such
judgment, by virtue whereof the said lands and tenements
were sold as aforesaid ; and shall be executed, acknowledged,
and recorded, as is or may be provided by law, to perfect the
conveyance of real estate in other cases.

SECT. 451. The officer who levies upon goods and chattels,
or lands and tenements, or who is charged with the duty of
selling the same by virtue of any writ or execution, may refuse
to publish a notice of the sale thereof by advertisement in a
newspaper, until the party for whose benefit such execution
issued, his agent or attorney, shall advance to such officer
so much money as will be sufficient to discharge the fees of
the printer for publishing such notice.

SECT. 452. Before any officer shall be excused from giving
the notification mentioned in the last section, he shall demand
of the party for whose benefit the execution was issued, his
agent or attorney (provided either of them reside in the
county), the fees in said section specified.

SECT. 453. All sales of lands or tenements under execution, shall be held at the court house, if there be one in the
county in which such lands and tenements are situated, and
if there be no court house, then at the door of the house in
which the district court was last held. No sheriff, or other
officer, making the sale of property, either personal or real,
nor any appraiser of such property, shall either directly or
indirectly purchase the same; and every purchase so made,
shall be considered fraudulent and void.

SI-JCT. 454. If lands and tenements, levied on as aforesaid,
are not sold upon one execution, other executions may be
issued to sell the lands so levied upon.

SECT. 455. In all cases, when two or more executions
shall be put into the hands of any sheriff, or other officer, and
it shall be necessary to levy on real estate to satisfy the same,
and either of the judgment creditors in whose favor one or
more of said executions is issued, shall require the sheriff, or
other officer, to make a separate levy to satisfy his execution
or executions, it shall be the duty of the sheriff, or other
officer, to levy said executions, or so many thereof as may be
required, on separate parcels of real property, of the judgment debtor or debtors; giving to the officer making the levy
on behalf of the creditor, whose execution may, by the provisions of this chapter, be entitled to a preference, the choice
of such part of the real property of the judgment debtor or
debtors, as will be sufficient, at two thirds the appraised
value, to satisfy the same. And in all cases where two .or
more executions, which are entitled to no preference over
each other, are put in the hands of the same officer, it shall
be the duty of the officer when required, to levy the same on
separate parcels of the real property of the judgment debtor
or debtors, when in the opinion of the appraisers the same
may be divided without material injury; and if the real property of said debtors will not be sufficient, at two thirds of its
appraised value, to satisfy all the executions chargeable
thereon, or such part of the same as shall be levied on to
satify each execution, as will bear the _same proportion in
value to the whole, as the amount due on the execution bears
to the amount of all the executions chargeable thereon, as

near as may be, according to the appraised value of each separate parcel of said real property.

S301‘. 456. If the term of service of the sheriff, or other.

o$eer, who has made, or shall hereafter make“ sale of any

lands and tenements, shall expire; or if the sheriff or other‘

officer shall be absent, or be rendered unable by death, or
otherwise, to make a deed of conveyance of the same, any
succeeding sheriff or other officer, on receiving a certificate
from the court from which the execution issued for the sale
of said lands and tenements, signed by the clerk, by order
of said court, setting forth that sufficient proof has been made
to the court, that suchsale was fairly and legally made, and,
on tender of the purchase-money, or if the same, or any part
thereof, be paid, then, on proof of such payment and tender
of the balance, if any, may execute to the said purchaser or
purchasers, or his or their legal representatives, a deed of conveyance of said lands and tenements so sold. Such deed
shall be as good and valid in law, and have the same effect,
as if the sheriff or other officer who made sale, had executed
the same.

S1-7.01‘. 457. If, on any sale made as aforesaid, there shall
be in the hands of the sheriff or other officer, more money
than is sufficientto satisfy the writ or writs of execution, with
interests and costs, the sheriff or other officer shall, on demand,

pay the balance to the defendant in execution, or his legal
representatives. ’

'SEC'1‘. 458. If any judgment or judgments, in satisfaction
of ,which any lands or tenements are sold, shall at any time
thereafter be reversed, such reversal shall not defeat or affect
the title of the purchaser or purchasers; but in such case,
restitution shall be made, by the judgment creditor, of the
monies, for which such lands or tenements were sold, with
lawful interest from the day of sale.

SECT. 459. In all cases where real estate has been or may
hereafter be taken on execution and appraised, and twice
advertised and offered for sale, and shall remain unsold for
want of bidders, it shall be the duty of the court from which
such execution issued, on motion of the plaintifff, to set aside
such appraisernent, and order a new one to be made, or to
set aside such levy and appraisement, and award a new execution to issue, as the case may require.

SECT. 460. The sheriff or other officer, to whom any writ
of execution shall be directed, shall return such writ to the
court to which the same is returnable, within sixty days from
the date thereof.

SECT. 461. In all cases where judgment is rendered in any
court of record within this territory, upon any other instrument of writing, in which two or more persons are jointly
and severally bound, and it shall be made to appear to the
court, by parol or other testimony, that one or more of said
persons so bound, signed the same as surety or bail for his
or their co-defendant, it shall be the duty of the clerk of said
court, in recording the judgment thereon, to certify which of
the defendants is principal debtor, and which are sureties or
bail. And the clerk of the court aforesaid shall issue execution on such judgment, commanding the sheriff or other
officer to cause the money to be made of the goods and chattels, lands and tenements, of the principal debtor, butjfor
want of sufficient property of the principal debtor, to make
the same, that he cause the same to be made of the goods
and chattels, lands and tenements of the surety or bail. In
all cases the property, both personal and real, of the principal
debtor, within the jurisdiction of the court, shall be exhausted
before any of the property of the surety or bail shall be taken
in execution.

S301. 462. Each freeholder summoned to appraise real‘

estate under the provisions of this chapter, shall be allowed
and receive for his services the sum of fifty cents for each day
he may be so engaged as such appraiser, to be collected on
the execution, by virtue of which the property appraised was
levied on, if claimed at the time of making the return of such
appraisement. And when any freeholder, summoned as aforesaid, shall fail to appear at the time and place appointed by
the officer, and discharge his duty as appraiser, he shall, on
complaint being made to any justice of the peace of the precinct in which such freeholder resides, forfeit and pay the
sum of fifty cents for every such neglect, unless he can render a reasonable excuse. Such sum shall be collected by
said justice, and paid into the county treasury for the use of
the county.

S301‘. 463. If any sheriff or other officer shall refuse or

.neglect to execute any writ of execution to him directed,

which has come to his hands; or shall neglect or refuse to
sell any goods and chattels, lands and tenements, or shall
neglect to call an inquest, and return a copy thereof forthwith
to the clerk’s office; or shall neglect to return any writ of
execution to the proper court, on or before the return day
thereof; or shall neglect to return a just and perfect inventory
of all and singular the goods and chattels by him taken in
execution, unless the said sheriff or other officer shall return
that he has levied and made the amount of the debt, damages,
and costs; or shall refuse or neglect on demand td pay over
to the plaintifff, his agent or attorney of record, all monies by
him collected or received, for the use of said party, at any
time after collecting or receiving the same, except as provided
in section four hundred and forty-nine; or shall neglect or
refuse, on demand made by the defendant, his agent or attorney of record, to pay over all monies by him received for any
sale made, beyond what is sufficient to satisfy the writ or
writs of execution, with interest and legal costs, such sheriff
or other officer shall, on motion in court and two days’ notice
thereof in writing, be amerced in the amount of said debt,
damages, and costs, with ten per centum thereon, to and for
the use of said plaintifff or defendant, as the case may be.
SECT. 464. If any clerk of a court shall neglect or refuse,
on demand made by the person entitled thereto, his agent or

attorney of record, to pay over all money by him received, in
his official capacity, for the use of such person, every such
clerk may be amerced; and the proceedings against him and
his sureties shall be the same as provided for in the foregoing
section against sheriffs and their sureties.

SECT. 465. When the cause of amercement is for refusing
to pay over money collected as aforesaid, the said sheriff or
other officer shall not be amerced in a greater sum than the
amount so withheld, with ten per centum thereon.

SECT. 466. When execution shall be issued in any county
in this territory, and directed to the sheriff or coroner of
another county, it shall be lawful for such sheriff or coroner
having the execution, after having discharged all the duties
required of him by law, to inclose such execution, by mail, to
the clerk of the court who issued the same. On proof being
made by such sheriff or coroner, that the execution was
mailed soon enough to have reached the office where it was
issued, within the time prescribed by law, the sheriff or coroner shall not be liable for any amercement or penalty, if it do
not reach the office in due time. .

SECT. 467. No sheriff shall forward, by mail, any money
made on any such execution, unless he shall be specially
instructed to do it by the plaintifff, his agent. or attorney of
record. In all cases of a motion to amerce a sheriff or other
officer of any county other than the one from which the
execution issued, notice in writing shall be given to such
officer, as hereinbefore required, by leaving it with him, or at
his office, at least fifteen days before the first day of the term
at which such motion shall be made, or by transmitting the
notice by mail, at least sixty days prior to the first day of the
term at which such motion shall be made. All amercements
so procured shall be entered on the record of the court, and
shall have the same force and effect as a judgment.

SECT. 468. Each and every surety of any sheriff or other
officer may be made a party to the judgment rendered as
aforesaid, against the sheriff or other officer, by action, to

be commenced and prosecuted as in other cases. But the.

goods and chattels, lands and tenements of any such surety,
shall not be liable to be taken on execution, when sufficient
goods and chattels, lands and tenements of the sheriff or other
officer, against whom execution may be issued, can be found

to satisfy the same. Nothing herein contained shall prevent
either party from proceeding against such sheriff or other
officer, by attachment, at his election.

S1-:c'r. 469. In cases where a sheriff or other officer may,
be amerced, and shall not have collected the amount of the
original judgment, he shall be permitted to sue out an execution, and collect the amount of said judgment in the name of
the original plaintifff, for his own use.

CHAPTER II.—Pnoc1-znmxas IN AID or Exncurrox.

SECT. 470. When a judgment debtor has not personal or
real property subject to levy on execution, sufficient to satisfy
the judgment, any interest which he may have in any banking,
turnpike, bridge, or other joint-stock company, or any interest
he may have in any moneycontracts, claims, or Hioses in
action, due or to become due to him,.or in any judgment or
decree; or any money, goods, or effects which he may have in
possession of any person, body politic or corporate, shall be
subject to the payment,of such judgment, by proceedings in
equity, or as in this chapter prescribed.

SECT. 471. When an execution against the property of a
judgment debtor, or one of several debtors in the same judgment, is issued to the sheriff of a county where he resides, or
if he do not reside in the territory, to the sheriff of the county
where the judgment was rendered, or a transcript of a justice’s
judgment has been filed, is returned unsatisfied, in whole or
in part, the judgment creditor is entitled to an order from‘ a
judge of the district court of the county to which the execution was issued, requiring such debtor to appear and answer
concerning his property, before such judge, or a referee appointed by such judge, at a time and place specified in such
order, within the county to which the execution was issued.

SECT. 472. After the issuing of an execution against property, and upon proof by affidavit of the judgment creditor or
otherwise, to the satisfaction of the district court, or a judge
thereof, that the judgment debtor has property which he
unjustly refuses to apply towards the satisfaction of the
judgment, such court or judge may, by order, require the
judgment debtor to appear at a time and place in said

county, to answer concerning the same. And such proceedings may thereupon be had for the application of the property
of the judgment debtor towards the satisfaction of the judgment as are prescribed in this chapter.

SECT. 473. " “’ ' " “’ ' * ‘

SECT. 474. No person shall, on examination pursuant to
this chapter, be excused from answering any question on the
ground that his examination will tend to convict him of a
fraud, but his answer shall not be usedias evidence against
him in a criminal prosecution for such fraud.

SECT. 475. After the issuing of execution against property, any person indebted to the judgment debtor, may pay to
the sheriff the amount of his debt, or so much thereof as
may be necessary to satisfy the execution, and the sheriff’s
receipt shall be a sufficient discharge for the amount so paid,
or directed to be credited by the judgment creditor on the
execution.

SECT. 476. After,the issuing or return of an execution
against property of the judgment debtor, or of any one of several debtors in the same judgment, and upon proof, by affidavit or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the judge, that any
person or corporation has property of such judgment debtor,
or is indebted to him, the judge may, by an order, require such
person or corporation, or any officer or member thereof, to
appear at a specified time and place within the county in
which such person or corporation may be served with the
order to answer, and answer concerning the same. The
judge may, also, in his discretion, require notice of such proceeding to be given to any party in the action, in such manner as may seem to him proper.

SECT. 477. Witnesses may be required, upon the order of
the judge, or by a subpoena issued by the clerk of the district court, to appear and testify upon any proceedings in
this chapter, in the same manner as upon the trial of an
issue.

S1:c'r. 478. The party or witness may be required to attend before the judge, or before a referee appointed by the
court or judge. If before a referee, the examination must
be taken by the referee and certified by the judge. All examinations and answers before a judge or referee, under this
chapter, must be on oath; but when a corporation answers,
the answer must be on the oath of an officer thereof.

SECT. 479. The judge may order any property of the
judgment debtor, not exempt by law, in the hands of either
himself or any other person or corporation, or due to the
judgment debtor, to be applied towards the satisfaction of the
judgment; but the earnings of the debtor for his personal
services, at any time within three months next preceding the

order, cannot be so applied, where it is made to appear, by’

the debtor’s affidavit or otherwise, that such earnings are necessary for the use of a family supported wholly or partly by
his labor.

SBCT. 480. The judge may also, by order, appoint the:

sheriff of the proper county, or other suitable person, a
receiver of the property of the judgment debtor, in the same

‘manner and with the like authority as if the appointment

was made by the court. The judge may also, by order, forbid a transfer or other disposition of the property of the

judgment debtor, not exempt by law, and any interference
therewith.

SECT. 481. If the sheriff shall be appointed receiver, he.
and his sureties shall be liable to his official bond for the
faithful discharge of his duties as such receiver. If any

other person shall be appointed receiver, he shall give a written undertaking in such sum as shall be prescribed by the
judge, with one or more sureties, to the effect that he will
faithfully discharge his duties of receiver, and he shall also
take an oath to the same effect, before acting as such receiver.
The undertaking mentioned in this section shall be to the Territory of Dakota, and actions may be prosecuted for a breach
thereof, by any person interested, in the same manner as upon
a sheriff’s official bond.

S301‘. 482. The judge or referee, acting under the provisions of this chapter, shall have power to continue his proceedings from time to time until they are completed.

SECT. 483. The judge may, in his discretion, order a reference to a referee agreed upon or appointed by him, to report the evidence of the facts.

SECT. 484. If any person, party, or witness, disobey an

order of the judge or referee, duly served, such person, party,‘

or’ witness may be punished by the judge as for contempt.
SECT. 485. The orders to judgment debtors and witnesses,
provided for in this chapter, shall be in writing and signed by

the judge making the same, and shall be served as a summons in other cases. The judge shall reduce all his orders to
writing, which, together with a minute of his proceedings
signed by himself, shall be filed with the clerk of the court of
the county in which the judgment is rendered, or the transcript of the justice filed, and the clerk shall enter on his execution docket the time of filing the same. i '
SECT. 486. The judge shall allow to clerks, -sheriffs, referees, receivers, and witnesses, such compensation as is
allowed for like services in other cases, to be taxed as costs in
the case, and shall enforce by order the collection thereof

from such party or parties as ought to pay the same.
SECT. 487. * ' “ SECT. 488. ' " " SECT. 489. ' " "’ SECT.
490. ' " ' SECT. 491. " " " Sscr. 492. ' ' ' S201‘. 493. ' ’ '

SECT. 494. " " " Sscr. 495. " “' '

CHAPTER IV.—Ex1~:cUrroNs FOR rm: DELIVERY or REAL
PROPERTY.

SECT. 496. If the execution be for the delivery of the possession of real property, it shall require the officer to deliver
the same, particularly describing the property, to the party
entitled thereto, and may at the same time ‘require the officer
to satisfy any costs or damages recovered in the same judgment, out of the goods and chattels of the party against
whom it was rendered, and for want of such goods and chattels, then out of the lands and tenements; and in this respect
it shall be deemed an execution against the property.

SECT. 497. When the judgment is not for the recovery of
money or real property, the same may be enforced by attachment by the court rendering the judgment, upon motion
made, or by a rule of the court upon the defendant; but in
either case, notice of the motion, or a service of a copy Of
the rule, shall be made on the defendant a reasonable time
before the order of ‘attachment is made.

CHAPTER V.——-JUDGMENT BEFORE Jusrrcss or THE PEACE.

SECT. 498. In all cases in which judgment shall be r'endered by a justice of the peace, the party in whose favor the
judgment shall be rendered may file a transcript of such judgment in the office of the clerk of the district court of the
county in which the judgment was rendered, and thereupon
the clerk shall, on the day on which the same shall be filed,
enter the case on the execution docket, together with the
amount of the judgment and the time of filing the transcript.

SECT. 499. Such judgment, if the transcript shall be filed
in term time, shall have a lien on the real estate of the judgment debtor from the first day of the term; if filed in vacation, as against the judgment debtor, said judgment shall
have alien from the "day of the filing, and as against subsequent judgment creditors— at the next succeeding term, and
other transcripts filed in vacation, said judgment shall have
lien from thefirst day of the next term of the court in the
same manner and to the same extent as if the judgment had
been rendered in the district court.

SECT. 500. Execution may be issued thereon to the sheriff
by the clerk of the court, in the same manner as if the judgment had been taken in court, and the sheriff shall execute
and return the same, as other executions; and, in case of
sale of real estate, his proceedings shall be examined and
approved by the court, as in other cases.

SECT. 501. The justice of the peace shall certify, on the.
transcript, the amount, if any, paid on such judgment. The ,
costs of the transcript, the filing of the same, and the entry of l
the case on the execution docket shall be paid by the party
filing the same, and be taxed in the costs.

TITLE XV.

MISCELLANEOUS PROCEEDINGS.

CHAPTER I. Ofer to C'ompromz'se.—II. Submitting a Controversg/.—I1I.
0j'er to confess Judgment.—IV. Jliotions and Orders.

 

CHAPTER I.—-OFFER T0 Comrnomsa.

SECT. 502. The defendant in an action for the recovery of
money only, may, at any time before the trial, serve upon thei
plaintiff or his attorney, an offer, in writing, to allow judgment to be taken against him for the sum specfied therein.

If the plaintifff accept the offer, and give notice thereof to the
defendant or his attorney, within five days after the offer was
served, the offer, and an affidavit that the notice of acceptance
was delivered in the time limited, may be filed by the plaintifff, or the defendant may file the acceptance, with a copy of
the order, verified by affidavit; and, in either case, the offer
and acceptance shall be noted in the journal, and judgment
shall be rendered accordingly. If the notice of acceptance
be not given in the period limited, the offer shall be deemed
withdrawn, and shall not be given in evidence, or mentioned
on the trial. If the plaintifff fails to obtain judgment for more
than was offered by the defendant, he shall pay the defendant’s costs from the time of the offer.

SECT. 503. The making of an offer, pursuant to the provisions contained in the foregoing section, shall not be a cause
for a continuance of an action, or a postponement of a trial.

CHAPTER II.—SuBM1r'rrxo A Conmovansr.

SECT. 504. Parties to a question which might be the subject of a civil, action, may, without action, agree upon a case
containing the facts upon which the controversy depends, and
present a submission of the same to any court which would
have jurisdiction, if an action had been brought. But it must
appear, by affidavit, that the controversy is’ real, and the proceedings in good faith, to determine the rights of the parties.
The court shall thereupon hear and determine the case and
render judgment, as if an action were pending.

SECT. 505. The case, the submission, and the judgment
shall constitute the record.

SECT. 506. The judgment shall be with costs, may be enforced, and shall be subject to reversal in the same manner as

if it had been rendered in an action, unless otherwise provided
in the submission.

CHAPTER III.—- Or-‘mm TO corzmcss JUDGMENT.

SECT. 507. After an action for the recovery of money is
brought, the defendant may offer in court to confess judgment
for part of the amount claimed, or part of the causes involved
in the action. Whereupon, if the plaintifff, being present,

refuse to accept such confession of judgment in full of his
demands against the defendant in the action, or having had
such notice that the offer would be made, of its amount, and
of the time of making it, as the court shall deem reasonable,
fail to attend, and, on the trial, do not recover more than was
so offered to he confessed, such plaintifff shall pay all the costs
of the defendant incurred after the offer. The offer shall not
be deemed to be an admission of the’ cause of action or
amount to which the plaintifff is entitled, nor be given in evidence upon the trial.

SBCT. 508. Before an action for the recovery of money isbrought against any person, he may go into. the court of the
county of his residence, or of that in which the’ person having
the cause of action resides, which would have jurisdiction of
the action, and offer to confess judgment in favor of such per-.
son for a specified sum on such cause of action. Whereupon,
if such person having had such notice that the offer would be
made, of its amount, and of the time and place of making it,
as the court shall deem reasonable, do not attend to accept
the confession, or, attending, refuse to accept it, and shall
afterwards commence an action upon such cause and not
recover more than the amount so offered to he confessed, he
shall pay all the costs of the action; and on the trial thereof,
the offer shall not be deemed to be an admission of the cause
or action,~or amount to which the plaintifff is entitled, nor be
given in evidence.

CHAPTER IV.—Mor1oNs AND Onnmzs.

S301‘. 509. A motion is an application for an order addressed to the court or a judge in vacation, by any party to a
suit or proceeding, or one interested therein.

S301‘. 510. Several objects may be included in the same
motion if they all grow out of, or are connected with, the action
or proceeding in which it is made.

SECT. 511. Where notice of a motion is required, it must
be,in writing, and shall state the names of the parties to the
action or proceeding in which it is made, the name of the
court or judge before whom it is to be made, the place where,
and the day on which it will be heard, the nature and terms
of the order or orders to be applied for, and if affidavits are to

be used on the hearing, the notice shall state the fact. It
shall be served a reasonable time before the hearing.

SECT. 512. Notices of motions mentioned in this chapter
may be served by a sheriff, coroner, or constable, or by any
disinterested person, and the return of any such officer, or
affidavit of any such person, shall be proof of service. The
service shall be on the party or his attorney of record, if the
said party or his attorney be resident within the county in
which the motion is made, and in case there is more than one
party adverse to such motion, service shall be made upon each
party or his attorney.’

SECT. 513. 'I:he service of a notice shall be made as is
required by law for the service of a summons, and when served
by an officer, he shall be entitled to like fees.

SECT. 514. Motions to strike pleadings and papers from
'the files may be made with or without notice, as the court or
judge shall direct. .

I SECT. 515. Every direction of a court or judge made or
-entered in writing and not included in a judgment, is an
order.

SECT. 516.. Orders made out of court shall be forthwith

entered by the clerk in the journal of the court, in the same
manner as orders made in term.

TITLE XVI.

ERROR IN CIVIL CASES.

{ SECT. 517. A judgment rendered, or final order made, by

Va justice of the peace or any other tribunal, board, or officer,
exercising judicial functions, and inferior in jurisdiction to
the district court, may be reversed, vacated, or modified by
the district court.

SECT. 518. An order affecting a substantial right in an
action, when such order in effect determines the action and
prevented a judgment, and an order affecting a substantial
right made in a special proceeding, or upon a summary application in action after judgment, is a final order which
may be vacated, modified, or reversed, as provided in this
title.

SEC1‘. 519. A judgment rendered or final order made by

the district court, may be reversed, vacated, or modified by
the supreme court, for errors appearingon the record.

SECT. 520. A judgment rendered or final order made by
any court, board, or tribunal, mentioned in_ the preceding sections, may be reversed, vacated, or modified, by the supreme
court, for errors appearing on the record; but the petition in
error, in such case, can be filed only by leave of the supreme
court, or a judge thereof.

SECT. 521. The proceedings to obtain such reversal, vacation, or modification, shall be by petition, to be entitled,
“petition in error,” filed in a court having power to make
such reversal, vacation, or modification, setting forth the error
complained, and there upon a summons shall be issued and
served or publication made, as in the commencement of an
action. A service on the attorney of record in the original
case shall be sufficient. The summons shall notify the adverse party, that a petition in error has been filed in a certain
case, naming it, and shall be made returnable on or before
the first day of the term of the court, if issued in vacation;
if issued in term time, it shall be returnable on a day therein
named; if the last publication or service of the summons
shall be made ten days before the end of the term, the case
shall stand for hearing at the term.

SECT. 522. The summons mentioned in the last section,
shall, upon the written precipe of the plaintifff in error or his
attorney, be issued by the clerk of the court in which the
petition is filed, to the sheriff of any county in which the defendant in error or his attorney of record may be; and if the
writ issue to a foreign county, the sheriff thereof may return
the same by mail to the clerk, and shall be entitled to the
same fees as if the same had been returnable to the district
court of the county in which such officer resides. The defendant in error, or his attorney, may waive in writing the
issuing or service of the summons.

SECT. 523. The plaintifff in error shall file with his petition, a transcript of the proceedings containing the final
judgment or order sought to be reversed, vacated, or modified. .

SECT. 524. Justices of the peace, and other judicial tribunals having no clerk, and the clerks of every court of record,
shall upon request and being paid the lawful fees therefore,

l

furnish an authenticated transcript of the proceedings, containing the judgment or final order of said courts, to either of
the parties to the same, or to any person interested in procuring such transcript. .

SECT. 525. No.proceeding to reverse, vacate, or modify
any judgment or final order rendered in the county court, or
district court, except as provided in the next section, and the
fourth subdivision of this section, shall operate to stay execution, unless the clerk of the court in which the record of said

judgment or final order shall be, shall take a written undertaking, to be executed on the part of the plaintifff in error to
the adverse party, with one or more sufficient sureties, as follows: 1. When the judgment or final order sought to be
reversed, directs the payment of money, the written undertaking shall be in double the amount of the judgment or
order, to the effect that the plaintifff in error will pay the condemnation-money and costs, in case the judgment or final
order shall be affirmed in whole or in part. 2. When it
directs the execution of a conveyance, or other instrument,
the undertaking shall be in such sum as may be prescribed by
any court of record in this territory, or any judge thereof, to
the effect that the plaintifff in error will abide the judgment,
the same shall be affirmed, and pay the costs. 3. When it
directs the sale or delivery of possession of real property, the
undertaking shall be in such sum as may be prescribed by
any court of record of this territory, or any judge thereof to
the effect, that during the possession of such property by the
plaintifff in error, he will not commit or suffer to be committed any waste thereon, and if the judgment be affirmed, he
will pay the value of the use and occupation of the property
from the date of the undertaking until the delivery of the possession, pursuant to the judgment, and all costs.  When
it directs the assignment or delivery of documents, they may
be placed in the custody of the clerk of the court in which
the judgment was rendered, to abide the judgment of the appellate court, or the undertaking shall be in such sum as may
be prescribed as aforesaid, to abide the judgment and pay
costs, if the same shall be affirmed. '

SECT. 527. Before the written undertaking herein mentioned in section five hundred and twenty-five, shall operate
to stay execution of the judgment or order, the execution of

the undertaking and the sufficiency of the sureties must be
approved by the court in which the judgment was rendered
or order made, or by the clerk thereof; and the clerk shall
indorse said approval, signed by himselfhupon the undertaking, and file the same in- his office, for the defendant in
error.

SECT. 528. No proceeding for reversing, vacating, or modifying judgments or final orders, shall be commenced, unless
within three years after the rendition of the judgment, or
making the final order complained of; or, in case the person
entitled to such proceeding be an infant, a married woman, a
person of unsound mind, or imprisoned, within three years, as
aforesaid, exclusive of the time of such disability.

SECT. 529. No proceeding to reverse, vacate, or modify
any judgment rendered, or final order made by a justice of .
the peace, shall operate as a stay of execution, unless the
clerk of the district court shall take a written undertaking to
the defendant, executed on the part of the plaintifff in error,
by one or more sufficient sureties, to the effect that the plaintifff will pay all the costs which have accrued, or may accrue
on such proceedings in error, together with the amount of any
judgment that may be rendered against such plaintifff in error,
either on the further trial of the case, after the judgment of
the court below shall have been set aside or reversed, or upon
and. after the affirmance thereof in the district court. The
person entitled to such proceeding shall have the same time
for prosecuting the same, before he is barred, as is provided
in section five hundred and twenty-eight, unless the said
judgment has been paid off or satisfied prior to the commencement of such proceeding.

S201‘. 530. When a judgment or final order shall be reversed, either in whole or in part, in the supreme court, the
court reversing the same'shall proceed to render such judgment as the court below should have rendered, or remand the
cause to the court below, for such judgment; and the court
reversing such judgment, or final order, shall not issue execution in causes that are removed before them on error, on
which they pronouhced judgment, as aforesaid, but shall send
a special mandate to the court below, as the. case may require,
to award execution thereupon; and such court, to which such
special mandate is sent, shall proceed in such cases in the

same manner as if such judgment or final order had been rendered therein. And, on motion and good cause shown, it
may suspend any execution made returnable before it, by
order of the supreme court, in the same manner as if such
execution had been issued from its own court, but such power
shall not extend further than to stay proceedings until the

matter can be further heard by the supreme court.
SECT. 531. When a judgment or final order is reversed,

the plaintifff in error shall recover his costs, and when reversed
in part, and affirmed in part, costs shall be equally divided
between the parties.

SECT. 532. When a judgment or final order shall be
affirmed in the supreme court, the said court shall also render
judgment against the plaintifff in ‘error, for five per cent. upon
the amount due from him to the defendant in error, unless
the court shall enter upon its minutes that there was reasonable ground for the proceedings in error.
SECT. 533. A mistake, neglect, or omission of the clerk

.shall not be a ground of error, until the same has been presented and acted upon in the court in which the mistake,
neglect, or omission occurred. '

SECT. 534. Rendering judgment before the action stood
for trial, according to the provisions of this code, shall be
deemed a clerical error.

SECT. 535. Writs of error and certiorari, to reverse, vacate,
or modify judgments or_final orders in civil cases, are abolished, but courts shall have the same power to compel, complete, and perfect transcripts of the proceedings containing
the judgment or final order sought to be reversed, to be
furnished, as they heretofore had under writs of error and
certiorari.

SECT. 536. If the judgment of a justice of the peace, taken
on error, as herein provided, to the district court be affirmed,
it shall be the duty of such court to render judgment against
the plaintifff in error, for the costs of suit, and to award execution therefore; and the court shall thereupon order its clerk
to certify its decision in the premises, to the justice, that the
judgment affirmed may be enforced, as if such proceedings
in error had not been taken; or such court may award execution _to carry into effect the judgment of such justice, in the

same manner as if such judgment had been rendered in the
district court.

SECT. 537. When the proceedings of a justice of the
peace are taken, on error, to the district court, in manner
aforesaid, and the judgment of such justice shall be reversed
or set aside, the court shall render judgment of reversal and
for the costs that have accrued up to that time, in favor of
the plaintifff in error, and award execution therefore; and the
causeshall be .retained by the court for trial and final judgment, as in cases of appeal.

PROCEEDINGS TO REVERSE, VACATE, OR MODIFY JUDGMENT8 AND
ORDERS IN THE COURTS IN WHICH THEY ARE RENDERED.

SECT. 538. A district court shall have power to vacate, or
modify its own judgments or ordeis, after the term at which
such judgment or order was made: 1. By granting a new
trial for the cause, within the time and in the manner prescribed in section two_ hundred and ninety-eight. 2. By a
new trial granted in proceedings against defendants constructively summoned, as provided in section sixty-seven. 3. For
mistake, neglect, or omission of the clerk, or irregularity in
obtaining a judgment or order. 4. For fraud practised by
the successful party in obtaining the judgment or order.
5. For erroneous proceedings against an infant, married
woman, or person of unsound mind, where the condition of
such defendant does not appear in the record, nor the error in
the proceedings. 6. For death of one of the parties before
the judgment in the action. 7. For unavoidable casualty or
misfortune, preventing the party from prosecuting or defending. 8. For errors in a judgment shown by an infant in
twelve months after arriving at full age, as prescribed in
section three hundred and ninety-seven. 9. For taking judgments upon warrants of attorney, for more than was due to
the plaintifff, when the defendant was not summoned or otherwise legally notitied of the time and place of taking such

judgment.

S301‘. 539. The proceedings to vacate or modify the judg- 7
ment or order on the grounds mentioned in the subdivisions

four, five, six, seven, eight, and nine, of the last preceding section, shall be by petition verified by affidavit, setting forth the

judgment, or order, the grounds to vacate or modify it, and
the defense to the action, if the party applying was defendant. On such petition a summons shall issue and be served
as in the commencement of an action: Provided, Such
summons shall not issue in any case in which there is, upon
the minutes of the court, or among the files of the case, a
waiver of error by the party or his attorney, unless the court
or a judge thereof shall indorse upon the petition permission
to issue such summons.

SECT. 540. The proceedings to correct mistakes or omissions of the clerk, or irregularity in obtaining a judgment or
order, shall be by motion, upon reasonable notice to the adverse party or his attorney in the action. The motion to
vacate a judgment because of its rendition before the action
regularly stood for trial, can be made only in the first three
days of the succeeding tefm.

SECT. 541. The court may first try and decide upon the
grounds to vacate or modify a judgment or order, before trying or deciding upon the validity of the defense or cause of
action.

SECT. 542. A judgment shall not be vacated on motion or
petition, until it is adjudged that there is a valid defense to
the action in which the judgment is rendered; or if the plaintifff seeks its vacation, that there is a valid cause of action;
and where a judgment is modified, all liens and sureties
obtained under it, shall be preserved to the modified judgment.

SECT. 543. The party seeking to vacate or modify a judgment or order, may obtain an injunction suspending proceedings on the whole or part thereof, which injunction may be
granted by the court, or any judge thereof, upon its being
rendered probable, by affidavit or by exhibition of the record,
that the party is entitled to have such judgment or order
vacated or modified.

SECT. 544. When the judgment was rendered before the
action stood for trial, the suspension may be granted as provided in the last section, although no valid defense to the _

action is shown; and the court shall make such orders concerning the executions to be issued on the judgment, as shall
give to the defendants the same rights of delay he would
have bad if the judgment had been rendered at the proper time.

S801‘. 545. Proceedings to vacate or modify a judgment
or order, for the causes mentioned in subdivisions four, five,
and seven of section five hundred and thirty-eight, must be
commenced within two years after the judgment was rendered
or order made, unless the party entitled thereto be an infant,
married woman, or person of unsound mind, and then within
two years after removal of such disability. Proceedings for
the causes mentioned in subdivisions three and six of the
same action, shall be within three years, and in subdivision
nine within one year after the defendant has notice of_ the
judgment.

SICT. 546. The provisions of this title subsequent to section five hundred and thirty-seven shall apply to the supreme
court, so far as the same may be applicable to the judgments
or final orders of such court.

SECT. 547. Cases pending in appellate courts on writs of
error or otherwise, when this code takes effect, shall be conducted to final judgment, as if it had not been adopted, and
the liens of judgments and decrees rendered when it takes
effect shall be preserved.

TITLE XVII.

COSTS.

CHAPTER I.

SECT.  In cases in'which the plaintifff is a non-resident of the county in which the action is to be brought, before ‘
commencing such action, the plaintifff must furnish a sufficient
surety for costs. The surety must be a resident of the county
where the action is to be brought, and approved by the clerk.
His obligation shall be complete, simply by indorsing the
summons, or signing his name on the complaint as security for
costs. He shall be bound for the payment [of] all costs, which
may be adjudged against the plaintifff in the court, in which
the action is brought, or in any other to which it may be
carried, and for costs of the plaintifff’s witnesses, whether the
plaintifff obtained judgment, or not.

SECT. 549., An action in which security for costs is required by the last section, and has not been given, shall be

1
<
1
1

dismissed on the motion and notice by the defendant at any
proper time before judgment, unless in a reasonable time to
be allowed by the court, such security for costs be given.

SECT. 550. If the plaintifff in an action, after its commencement, become a non-resident of the county in which it
is brought, he shall give security for the costs in the manner
and under the restrictions provided in the two preceding sections.

SECT. 551. In an action in which security.for costs has
been given, the defendant may at any time before judgment, after reasonable notice to the plaintifff, move the court
for additional security on the part of the plaintiH; and if, on
such motion, the court be satisfied that the surety has removed .
from this territory, or is not sufficient, the action may be dismissed, unless in a reasonable time to be fixed by the court,
sufficient surety be given by the plaintifff.

SECT. 552. After final judgment has been rendered in an
action, in which security for costs has been given, as required
by this chapter, the court, on motion of the defendant, or any
other person having a right to such costs or any part thereof,
after ten days’ notice of such motion, may enter up judgment
in the name of the defendant or his legal representatives,
against the surety for costs, his executors or administrators,
for the amount of the costs adjudged against the plaintifff, or
so much thereof as may be unpaid. Execution may be
issued on such judgment, as in other cases, for the use and
benefit of the person entitled to such costs.

SECT. 553. If any informer, under a penal statute, to
whom the penalty, or any part thereof, if recovered, is given,
shall dismiss his suit or prosecution, or fail in the same, he
shall pay all costs accruing on such suit or prosecution, unless
he be an officer, whose duty it is to commence the same.

SECT. 554. Where defendants disclaim having any title or
interest in land or other property, the subject-matter of the
action, they shall "recover their costs unless for special reasons
the court decide otherwise.

SECT. 555. Unless otherwise provided by statute, the costs
of motions, continuances, amendments, and the like, shall be
taxed and paid, as the court in its discretion may direct.

SECT. 556. Where it is not otherwise provided by this
and other statutes, costs shall be allowed of course to the

plaintifff upon a judgment in his favor, in actions for the
recovery of money only, or for the recovery of specific real or
personal property.

SECT. 557. If it shall appear that a justice of the peace]
has jurisdiction of an action, and the same has been broughtil
in any other court, the plaintifff shall not recover costs; and}
in all actions for libel, slander, malicious prosecution, assault,‘
assault and battery, false imprisonment, criminal conversation,
or seduction, actions for nuisance, or against a justice of
the peace for misconduct in office, if the damages assessed
be under five dollars, the plaintifff shall not recover any
costs. ‘

SECT. 558. Costs shall, be allowed of course, to any defendant upon a judgment in his favor in the actions men?
tioned in the last two sections.

S301‘. 559. In other actions the court may award and tax
costs, and apportion the same between the parties on the
same or adverse sides, as in its discretion it may think right

‘ and equitable.

SBCT. 560. Where several actions are brought on one bill
of exchange, promissory note, or other obligation or instrument in writing against several parties, who might have been
joined as defendants in the same action, as allowed by section
thirty-five, no costs shall be recovered by the plaintifff in more
than one of such actions, if the parties proceeded against in
the other actions were, at the commencement of the previous
action, openly within the territory.

SECT. 561. When a summons is issued to another county
than that in which the action or proceeding is pending, it may
bereturned by mail, and the sheriff shall be entitled to the

same fees, as if the summons had issued in the county of
which he is sheriff.

TITLE XVIII.

ACTIONS AND PROCEEDINGS IN PARTICULAR CASES.

CHAPTER I. Actions concerning Real Propertg/.—II. Actions on Ojicial
Securities.—III. Actions for the Partition of Real Propertg/—IV.
Proceedings upon Mandamus.

CHAPTER I.—Acrrons concrmxrxo REAL Pnorrmrv.

SECT. 562. In an action for the recovery of real property,
it shall be sufficient, if the plaintifff state in his petition, that
he has a real estate therein and is_entitled to the possession
thereof, describing the same, as required by section one hundred and twenty-three, and that the defendant unlawfully
keeps him out of the possession. It shall not be necessary to
state how the plaintifff ’s estate or ownership is derived.

SECT. 563. It shall be sufficient, in such action, if the defendant in his answer deny, generally, the title alleged in the

petition, or that he withholds the possession, as the case may '

be; but if he deny the title of the plaintifff, possession by the
defendant shall be taken as admitted. Where he does not
defend for the whole premises, the answer shall describe the
particular part for which defense is made.

SECT. 564. In an action by a tenant in common of real
property, against a co-tenant, the plaintifff must state in addition to what is required in the first section of this chapter,
that the defendant either denies the plaintifff ’s right or did
some act amounting to such denial.

SECT. 565. In an action for the recovery of real property,
where the plaintifff shows a right to recover at the time the
action was commenced, but it appears that his right has terminated during the pendency of the action, the verdict and
judgment must be according to the fact, and the plaintifff may

recover for withholding the property.

SECT. 566. In an action for the recovery of real property,
the party against whom judgment is rendered, may, at any
time during the term at which the judgment is rendered, demand another trial by notice on the journal, and thereupon
the judgment shall be vacatedpand the action shall stand for
trial at the next term.

SECT. 567. No further trial can be had in such action, ex-'
cept upon appeal, unless for good cause shown, as in other:
actions. .

SBc'r. 568. The parties in an action for the recovery of
property may avail themselves, if entitled thereto, of the relief 3
of the statutes in force for-the relief of occupying claimants‘
of land.

SECT. 569. If a guardian, tenant for life or years, joint,
tenant, or tenant in common, of real property, commit waste ‘
thereon, he is liable to pay three times the damages which
have resulted from such waste to the pirson who is entitled to
sue therefore.

SECT. 570. Judgment of forfeiture and conviction may be
rendered against the defendant, whenever the amount of
damages so recovered is more than two thirds the value of
the interest such defendant has in the property wasted, and
when the action is brought by the person entitled to the
reversion. '

S1-:c'r. 571. Any person whose duty it is to prevent waste,
and who has not used reasonable care and diligence to prevent it, is deemed to have committed it.

SECT. 572. For willful trespass, injuring any timber, tree,
or shrub on the land of another, or in the street or highway
in front of another’s cultivated ground, yard, or town lot, or
on the public grounds of -any town, or any land held by this
territory, for any purpose whatever, the trespasscr shall pay
treble damages, at the suit of any person entitled to protect
or enjoy the property aforesaid.

SECT. 573. Nothing herein contained authorizes the recovery of more than the just value of the timber taken from
uncultivated woodland for the repair of a public highway or
bridge, upon the land in its immediate neighborhood.

.SEc'r. 574. The owner of an estate in remainder or reversion, may maintain either of the aforesaid actions for injuries
done’ to the inheritance, notwithstanding any intervening
estate for life or years.

S301‘. 575. An heir, whether a minor or of full age, may
maintain these actions for injuries done in the time of his
ancestors, as well as in his owri time, unless barred by the
statute of limitations.

SECT. 576. Where lands or tenements are sold by virtue

of an execution, the purchaser at such sale may maintain his
action against any person, for either of the causes above
mentioned, occurring or existing after his purchase.

SECT. 577. This provision is not.intended to prevent the
person who occupies the lands, in the mean time, from using
them in the ordinary course of husbandry, or from using
timber, for the purpose of making suitable repairs thereon.

SECT. 578. But if, for this purpose, be employ timber
superior to that required for this occasion, he will be deemed
to have committed waste, and will be liable accordingly.

0

CHAPTER II.—ACTIONS ON OFFICIAL Szcumrms.

SECT. 579. When an officer, executor, or administrator
within this territory, by misconduct or neglect of duty, forfeits his bond or renders his sureties, any person injured
thereby, or who is by law entitled to the benefit of the security, may bring an action thereon, in his own name, against
the officer, executor, or administrator and his sureties, to
recover the amount to which he may be entitled by reason of
the delinquency. The action may be instituted and proceeded in on a certified copy of the bond, which copy shall
be furnished by the person holding the original thereof.

SECT. 580. A judgment in favor of a party for one delinquency, does not preclude the same or another party from an
action on the same security for another delinquency.

CHAPTER III.—ACTIONS FOR THE PAnrr'rroN or REAL Paornarr.

SECT. 581. The provisions of the existing statutes relating
to the partition of lands, tenements, and hereditaments, are
not affected by this code, and partition may be made under
the same, as. heretofore, until the legislature shall otherwise
provide. The provisions of such statutes shall also apply to
actions for such partition brought under this act, so far as the
same can be so applied to the substance and subject-matter
of the action, without regard to its form.

CHAPTER IV.~—Pnocm=:mNGs UPON MANDAMU8.

SECT. 582. The writ of mandamus may be issued to any‘
inferior tribunal, corporation, board, or person, to compel ‘the;
performance of an act, which the law specially enjoins as a
duty resulting from an office, trust, or station. But though it
may require an inferior tribunal to exercise its judgment, or
proceed to the discharge of any of its functions, it cannot
control judicial discretion.

SECT. 583. This writ may not be issued in any case,
where there is a plain and adequate remedy in the ordinary
course of the law. It may issue on the information of the
party beneficially interested.

S1-101'. 584. The writ is either alternative or peremptory.
The alternative writ must state concisely the facts showing
the obligation of the defendant to perform the act, and his
omission to perform it, and command him,‘ that immediately
upon the receipt of the writ, or at some other specified time,
he do the act required to be performed, or show cause before
the court whence the writ issued, at a specified time and
place, why he has not done so; and that he, then and there
return the writ, with his certificate of having done as he is
commanded.. The peremptory writ. must be in a similar
form, except that the words requiring the defendant to show
cause why he has not done as commanded, must be omitted.

SECT. 585. When the right to require the performance of
the act is clear, and it is apparent that no valid excuse can
be given for not performing it, a peremptory mandamus may
be allowed in the first instance. In all other cases the alternative writ must be first issued. _ _

SHOT. 586. The motion for the writ must be made upon
afhdavit, and the court may require a notice of the application to be given to the adverse party, or may grant an order
to show cause why it should not be allowed, or may grant the
writ without notice.

SECT. 587. The allowance of the writ must be indorsed
thereon, signed by a judge of the court granting it, and the
writ must be served personally upon the defendant. If the
defendant duly served neglect to return the same, he shall be
proceeded against, as for a contempt

SECT. 588. On the return day of the alternative writ, or
such further day, as the court may alloW,.the party, on whom
the writ shall have been served, may show cause by answer
made, in the same manner as an answer to a petition in a
civil action.

SECT. 589. If no answer be made, a peremptory mandamus
must be allowed against the defendant. If an answer be

.made containing new matter, the same shall not, in any

respect, conclude the -plaintifff, who may, on the trial or other
proceeding, avail himself of any valid objection to its suHiciency, or may countervail it by proof, either in direct denial
or by way of avoidance. _

SECT. 590. No other pleading or written allegation is
allowed, than the writ and answer. These are the pleadings
in the case, and have the same effect and are to be construed,
and may be amended in the same manner as pleadings in a
civil action; and the issues thereby joined must be tried, and

the further proceedings thereon had in the same manner as in
a civil action.

SECT. 591. If judgment be given for the plaintifff, he shall
recover the damages which he shall have sustained, to be
ascertained by the court, or a jury, or by referees, in a civil
action, and costs; and a peremptory mandamus shall, also,
be granted to him, withbut delay. .

SECT. 592. A recovery of damages by virtue of this chapter, against a party who shall have made a return to a writ
of mandamus, is a bar to any other action against the same
party, for the making of such return.

SECT. 593. Whenever a peremptory mandamus is directed
to any public officer, body, or board, commanding the performance of any public duty, specially enjoined by law, if it
appear to the court that such officer, or any member of such
body or board, has, without just excuse, refused or neglected
to perform the duty so enjoined, the _court may impose a
fine not exceeding five hundred dollars, upon every such officer or member of such body or board. Such fine, when collected, shall be paid into the treasury of the county, where
the duty ought to have been performed, for the use of common schools; and the payment thereof is a°bar to an action
for any penalty incurred by such officer or member of such

body or board, by reason of his refusal or neglect to perform
the duty so enjoined.

GENERAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO THE
' WHOLE CODE.

CHAPTER I. Process.—II. Duties of Clerks. -—III. Duties of Sherry}.IV. Miscellaneous Provisions. -— V. Provisions respecting existing Actions.
—VI. Provisions as to the Operations of the Code.

CHAPTER I. — Pnocsss.

SECT. 594. The style of all process shall be “ The Territory
of Dakota, county.” It shall be under the seal of court
from whence the same shall issue, shall be signed by the
clerk, and dated the day it issued.

S301‘. 595. An order for the provisional remedy or any
other process, in an action wherein the sheriff is a party or is
interested, shall be directed to the coroner. If both these officers are interested, the rocess shall be directed toand executed by a person appoi ted by the court or judge.

S801‘. 596. The court or judge, for good cause, may appoint a person to serve a particular process or order, who shall
have the same power to execute it which the sheriff has.
The person may be appointed on the motion of the party obtaining the process or order, and the return must be verified
by affidavit. He shall be entitled to the fees allowed to the

sheriff for similar services.
0

CHAPTER II.—Du'rrE_s or Cnsrucs.

SECT. 597. All writs and orders for provisional remedies,
and process of every kind, shall be issued by the clerks of the
several courts. Before they shall be issued, a precipe shall
be filed with the clerk demanding the same; which precipe shall be for the direction of the clerk, and not material
to the papers in the case, after the issuing of such writ or
process. '

SECT. 598. It is the duty of the clerk of each of the courts
to file together and carefully preserve, in his office, all papers

delivered to him, for that purpose, in every action or special
proceeding.

SECT. 599. He shall indorse upon every paper filed with
him the day of filing it; and upon every order for a provisional remedy and upon every undertaking given under the
same, the day of its return to his office.

SECT. 600. He shall, upon the return of every summons
served, enter upon the docket the name of the defendant or
defendants summoned, and the day of service upon each one.
The entry shall be evidence of the service of the summons, in
case of the loss thereof.

SECT. 601. He shall keep the records and books and
papers appertaining to the court, and record ‘its proceedings.

SECT. 602. The provisions of article eight, of title nine,
prescribing the duties of clerks of the district court, shall, as
far as they are applicable, apply to the clerks of other courts
of record.

SECT. 603. The clerk of each of the courts shall exercise
the powers and perform the duties conferred and imposed
upon him by other provisions of this code, by other statutes,
and by the common law. In the mrformance of his duties
he shall be under the direction of his court.

CHAPTER III.-—DUTIF:S or Srrmurrrrs.

SECT. 604. The sheriff shall indorse upon every summons,
order of arrest, or for the delivery of property, or of attachment or injunction, the day and hour it was received by
him. .

SECT. 605. He shall execute every summons, order, or
other process, and return the same as required by law; and if
he fail to do so, unless he make it appear to the satisfaction
of the court, that he was prevented by inevitable accident
from so doing, he shall be amerced by the court in a sum not
exceeding one thousand dollars, and shall be liable to the
action of any person aggrieved by such failure.

SECT. 606. The sheriff shall exercise the powers and perform the duties conferred and imposed upon him by other
provisions of this code, by other statutes, and by the common
law.

CHAPTER IV.—-MISCELLANEOUS Pnovrsross. A

SECT. 607. Any duty enjoined by this code upon a ministerial officer, and any act permitted to be done by himmay be
performed by his lawful deputy. .

SECT. 608. Whenever an oath is required by this code,

the affirmation of a person conscientiously scrupulous of tak-‘

ing an oath, shall have the same effect.

SECT. 609. The time within which an act is to be done,
as herein provided, shall be computed by excluding the first
day and including the last; if the last day may be Sunday, it
shall be excluded.

SECT. 610. Section three hundred and eighty-eight shall
not be construed to impair the right of a party to a jury, if
he appear at the trial by himself or attorney, and demand the
same.

SECT. 611. The ministerial officer, whose duty it is to
take security in any undertaking provided for by this code,
shall have the right to require the person offered as surety, to
make an affidavit of his qualifications, which affidavit may be
made before such officer. The taking of such affidavit shall
not exempt the officer from any liability to which he might
otherwise be subject, for taking insufficient security.

SECT. 612. The surety in every undertaking provided for
by this code, must be a resident of this territory, and worth
double the sum to be secured, beyond the amount of his debts,
and have property liable to execution in this territory equal
to the sum to be secured. Where there are two or more
sureties in the same undertaking, they must in the aggregate
have the qualifications prescribed in this section.

S301‘. 613. The judges of the supreme court shall, at the
first session of the supreme court, after this code shall take
effect, and every two years thereafter, revise their general
rules, and make such amendments thereto as may be necessary
to carry into effect the provisions of this code; and they shall
make such further rules, consistent therewith, as they may

deem proper. The rules so made shall apply to the supreme
court and the district courts.

CHAPTER V.—PROVI8IONS AS TO THE Opmuxrroxs or THE Cons.

SECT. 614. Rights of civil action, given or secured by
existing laws, shall be prosecuted in the manner provided by
this code. , If a case ever arise in which an action for the
enforcement or protection of a right, or the redress or prevention of a wrong, cannot be had under this code, the practice
heretofore in use may be adopted, so far as may be necessary

to prevent a failure of justice.

SECT. 615. ' ’ "‘ * ' ' " '

SECT. 616. Where, by statute, a civil action, legal or equitable, is given, and the mode of proceeding therein is prescribed, this code shall not affect the proceedings under such
statute, until the legislature shall otherwise provide; but, in
all such cases, as far as it may be consistent with the statute
giving such action, and practicable under this code, the proceedings shall be conducted in conformity thereto. Where
the statute designates, by name or otherwise, the kind of
action, but does not prescribe the mode of proceeding therein,
such action shall be commenced and prosecuted in conformity
to this code; where the statute gives an action, but does not
designate the kind of action, or prescribe the mode of proceeding therein, such action shall be held to be the civil action
of this code, and proceeded in accordingly.

SECT. 617. This act shall take effect from and after its

passage.


