CODE OEVOIVIL PROCEDURE.

AN ACT To SIMPLIFY ANDXAERIDGE THE PRACTICE, PLEADINGS
AND PROCEEDINGS or THE coURTs OF THIS TERRITORY.

WHEREAS, it is expedient that the present forms of actions
and pleadings in‘ca.ses at common law should be abolished, that
the distinction‘ between legal and equitable remedies should no
longer continue, and that an uniform course of proceeding, in
all cases, should-‘be established ; '-itherefdre, ‘

Be it emzcted I23/‘file Legz'slq'tive'“’Assem‘bly of the Territory of
Dakota," as 'fi>llowsv:- '

GENERAL DEFINITIONS AND nIvIsIoN:..

Szcwronrl. Division‘ of remedies.
2. Definition of an action.
3. Definition of a. special proceeding.

4. Division of actions into civil and crimina..
5. Definition ‘of a‘c'riminal action. l

6. Defmitionbf a. civik action.’ *
7. CiV1l and crim.ina1<:"remedies not merged in each other.

SECTION 1.; Remedies.’ Remedies in the courts of justice are 1

divided into: ;
1”." Actions ;
2. S'pecial~proceedings.=:~

Sec. 2. .Definition of action. An action is an ordinary procceding in a court of justice, by which a party prosecutes another party for the enforcement or protection of 9. right, the
redress or prevention of a wrong, or the punishment of a public offense.

Sec. 3. Specialprocceding. Every other remedy is a. special proceeding.

Sec. 4. Division of actions. Actions are of two kinds:

1. Civil;

2. Criminal.

Sec. 5. Oriminal action. A criminal action is prosecuted
by the people of the Territory, as a party, against a person
charged with a public oifcnce, for the punishment thereof.

Sec. 6. Civil action. Every other is a. civil action.

Sec. 7. Remedies not merged. Where the violation of a
right admits of both a civil and criminal remedy, the right to
prosecutethe one is not merged in the other.

PART I.

or THE comers or JUSTICE AND THEIR JURIsDICTION.

TITLE I. Of the courts in general.

II. Of the supreme court.

III. Of the district courts.
IV. Uf Probate courts.
V. Of the courts of justices of the peace.

TITLE 1.

OF THE C(lURTS IN GENERAL.

Srccrrox 8. ‘The several courts of this Territory.
9. Their jurisdiction generally,

Sec. 8. The several courts. The following are courts of
justice of this Territory:
1. The supreme court;

i 2.‘ The district courts ;
'3. Probate courts.
-4. The courts of justices of the ‘peace.

Sec. 9. Their jur2'sclz'ctz'o~n generally. These courts shall;
continue to exercise the jurisdiction now vested in them respectively, except as otherwise prescribed by this act.

TITLE II,

-THE SUPREME COURT.

SECTION 10. Its jurisdiction.
11. ‘Power of court.
12. Terms. Preferences of causes.

. 13. Judgment, how given.
14. Court, where held. Adjournment.

Sec. 10. Its jurz'sdictz'on. The supreme -court “shall have
exclusive jurisdiction to review upon appeal every actual determination hereafter made at any regular or special terms of the
district courts of this Territory, in the following cases and no
dther: ‘

1. In a judgment in an action commenced therein or brought
there from another eourt,tand upon the appeal from such jur gment, to review any intermediate order involving thd merits,
and necessarily aifecting the judgment;

2. In an order affecting a substantial right, made in such
action, when such order in effect determines the action, and
prevents a judgment from which an appeal might be taken, and
when such order grants or refuses a new trial; but no‘ appeal
to the supreme court from ‘an order granting a new trial shall
be effectual for any purpose, unless the notice of appeal contain an assent on the part of the appellant that, if the order be
affirmed, judgment absolute shall be rendered against the appellant. Upon every appeal from an order granting a new
trial, if the supreme court shall determine that no error was
committed in granting the new trial, they shall render judg'ment absolute upon the right of the appellant; and after the

proceedings are remitted to the court from which the appeirl
wasitaken, an assessment ‘of damages or other proceedings to
render the judgment e{fectual,‘ma'y be there had, in cases where
such subsequent proceedings» are requisite; ‘ '

3; In a-final order affecting a substantial right made in a

speciallproceeding, or upon a summary application in an action
after judgment, and upon such appeal to review any intermedia
ate order involving the merits and necessarily affecting the
order appealed from; -.

4. VV-henever the decision of ‘any motion heretofore made, or
of any motion hereafter to be made inrthe District Court of thisTerritory at a special ‘termthereof, involves the constitutionaliw
ty of any law-o£ this Territory or« has been or shall be placed, in
the opinion or reason for such - decision of the ustice making such
decision, upon the unconstitutionality of such law, then an appeal shall lie and may be made from such‘ decision or from the
order entered, or to be entered upon such decision,.to the gene ~
era-l term ofsaid supreme court,

Provz'deid,-“however, That the time for—appeali’ng from suchdecision, or from such order, shall not be extended hereby.

Sec. 11. .Power of tire Court. The supreme court may re-~
verse, aliirm, or modify, the judgment or order appealed from,.in whole or in part, and as to any or all-of the parties; and its

« judgment shall be remitted to the court below, to be enforced‘
according to law.

Sec. T2. Terms. Preferences t-of causes. The ‘times and
places of holding the terms of the supreme court, shall betand
remain as is now or as may hereafter be provided by:-law. The
court may, by «general rules, provide what causes shall have a
preferenceon the calendar. 011 a second and eachsubsequent
appeal to the-supreme court, or when ‘an"~appeal has once been
dismissed’ for defect or’ irregularity, the cause shall be placed
upon the calendar» as of the time of filing the first appeal ; and
whenever in any action or proceeding in~which..the people of
this Territory, or any territorial oiiicer, oraany board ‘of. territorial oiiicers, isior are sole plaintifff or defendant, an appeal has ~
been or shall be» brought from» any judgment or order for or
against him or them, in any» court; such appeal shall. have a
preference in the supreme court, and‘may,- be moved by either“
party out of the ordcreon the .cale°ndar.’=~:

Sec. 13. Ju,dgment.' Rekéaring. The concurrence of twojudges is necessary to pronounce a judgment.-.~ IE‘ two do not*~
concun, the cause must be reheard... But no more than two rev

“hearings shall be had; and if on the second rehearing the two

_‘-‘j udges do not concur, the judgment shall be allirmed.

Sec. 14. Oourt where held. Adjournment. The supreme
court may be held in other buildings than those designated by
law as places for holding courts, and at a dilferent place in the

~ same city, from that at‘ which it is appointed to be held. Any
- one or more of the judges may adjourn the court, with the like

effect as if all were present.

‘TITLE «III.

OF THE DI8TRIG11= COURTS.

SECTION 15. District court. Terms.

16. Publication of appointments of speciabterms.
17. Inability of Judge.

18. Business out of court.
19. Rooms, also.

See. 15. Terms. The times and places-of holding the terms
of the district courts,-«shall be as is -now, or may hereafter be
provided by law;

Provided, That anyjudge of a district court,-may in his
discretion call a special term of thedistrict court in his dis-.
trict, whenever in his opinion the public interests-require it.

Sec. 16. ;Pcub.’ication «of appointments of «special terms.
Everyjudge calling a special term of the district court shall
immediately give notice of the time and place of holding such
special term of said court,=by publishing a notice of the same in
some newspaper printed in his districtaif any there be, and if
not then by publishing the -same in somevnewspaper of general
circulation, printed at Yankton, at least oncein each week, for

»three successive-~weeks before the holding of any court in pur. suance thereof. The expense of the. publication shall be paid
« out of the treasury of the county where saidcovurt is held.

Sec. 17. Inability-»of Judge. .In~casoof «the inability, for
any cause, of any district judge, to hold a regular or special
xterm of the district court, to which hesis assigned by law, any
«other judge may do so.

See. 18. Business out of court. "The judges shall, at all
rroasonable times, -when not engaged in holding court, transact
e3l1Ch other business as may be done out oftcourt.

‘Sec. 19. Rooms, j:c. The commissioners of the several
counties shall providethe courts appointed to be held therein

with room,.. attendants, fuel, lights, and stationery, suitable and
suliicient for the transaction of their business. If the commissioners neglect, the court may order the sheriff to do so ; and
the expense incurred by him in carrying the order. into effect,
when certified‘ by the court, shall be a county charge.

TITLE IV.

OF ‘PROBATE COURTS.

SECTION 20. Jurisdiction and proceedings therein.

Sec. 20. Jurisdiction and proceedings tliercin. The juriss
diction of probate courts and the manner of proceeding therein
shall be as is now or may hereafter be defined by law.

TITLE V.

OFJOOURTS OF JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.

S_ec..21. Jurisdiction. Practice in justices courts. "*5 The
jurisdiction of courts of justices of the peace, as well as the
manner of instituting and conducting suits therein, shall remain

as provided by chapter second of. the laws of 1865 and 1866,,

passed by the legislative assembly of Dakota,Territory.

Utzygjjj

OF CIVIL ACTIONS;

TITLE I. Of their form.
II. Of the time of commencing-.ther.n.
III. Of the parties.
IV. Of the place of .trial.
' V. Of the manner of commencing them.
VI. Of the pleadings.
VII‘. Of the provisional remedies.
VIII. Of the trial andjudgment.
IX. Of the execution of the judgment.

Tina X. Of the costs.

XI. Of appeals.

XII. O!‘ the miscellaneous proceedings.

XIII. Actions in particular cases.‘

XIV. Provisions relating to existing su'its.~
XV. General provisions.

TITLE I. ’

FORM OF €'IVIL ACTION.

Scenes 22. Distinctions between actions at law and suits in equity
abolished.
23. Parties, how designated.
24. Actions on judgments.
25. Feigned issues abolished.

Sec. 22. .Dz'stz'nc'tion between actions at law and suits in
equity abolished. The distinction between actions at law and
suits in equity, and the forms of all such actions and suits,
heretofore existing, are abolished; and there shall be in this
Territory, hereafter, but one form of action for the enforcement or protection of private rights and the redress of private

I wrongs, which shall he denominated a. civil action.

See. :23. Parties, bow designated. In such action, the party
complaining shall be known as the plaintihf, and the adverse

party as the defendant.

Sec. 24. Actions on judgments. N 0 action shall he brought p

upon a judgment rendered in any court of this Territory, except a court of a justice of the peace, between the same parties,
without leave of the court for good cause shown, on notice to
the adverse party; and no action on ajudgment rendered by a
justice of the peace shall be broughtin the same county,~within

five years after its rendition, except in case of his death, resignation, incapacity to act, or removal from the county, or that

the process was not personally served on the defendant, or on
all the defendants, or in case of the death of some of the par~
ties, or where the docket or record of such ‘judgment is or shall
have been lost or destroyed. I

Sec. 25. Feéqned issues abolished. F eigned issues are
abolished, and instead thereof,,in the cases where the power
now exists to order a feigned issue, or when a question of fact,

not put in issue by the pleadings, is to be tried by a jury, an
order for the trial may be made, stating distinctly and plainly
the question of fact to be tried; and such order shall he the
only authority necessary for a trial.

TITLE II.

TIME OF COMMENCING CIVIL ACTIONS.

CHAPTER 1. Actions generally.
II. For the recoverryof .real property.
.1 II. Other than for zthe recovery of real property.
IV. General provisions.

CHAPTER I.
TIME OF COMMENCING ACTIONS IN GENERAL.

SECTION 26. Repeal of existing limitations.
27. Period of limitations. Answers.

Sec. 26. Repeal of existing limitations. All Tlaws ‘heretofore passed relating to the times of commencing actions are

‘hereby repealed, and the provisions of this title are substituted

in their stead. This title shall not extend’ to actions already
commenced, or to casesavhere the right of action has already
accrued, but the statutes now in force shall be ‘applicable to
such cases, according to the subject of the action, and without
regard to the form.

Sec. 27. Period of limitation, answer, &c. Civil actions
can only be commenced within the periods prescribed in this
title, after the cause of action shall have accrued, except where,
in special cases, a different limitation is prescribed by statute,
and in the Cases mentioned in section 26. But the objection
that the action was not commenced within the time limited, can
only be taken by answer.

CHAPTER II.

‘TIME OF COMMENCING ACTIONS roa run RECOVERY OF .‘REA_L

PROPERTY.

7 SE€TIO1\' 23. When the people will not sue.

29. When action cannot be brought by grantee from the
Territory. 2

;8nc. 30. When actions by the people or their grantees to be
brought within twenty years.
31. Seizin-.withi_n twenty .yeai:s, when necessary.
.'3_‘,‘?. Seizin within twenty years when necessary in action or
defense founded on title, .300.
33. Action after entry, or right of entry.
34. Possession, when presumed. Occupation, when deemed under legal title.
35. Occupation under written instrument, rite.
36. Adverse possession under written instrument, the.
37. Premises actually occupied, held adversely.

38. Adverse possession under claim of title not written.
39. Relation of landlord-and tenant, as affecting adverse

possession.
A0. Descent cast. Effect of.
41. Persons under disability.

Sec. 28. When the people will not sue. The people of this

‘Territory will not sue any person for or in respect to any real

property, or the issues or profits thereof, by reasontof the right
or title of the people to the same, unless :

1. Such right or title shall have accrued within forty years
before any action or other proceeding for the same shall be
commenced; or unless,

2. The people, or those from whom they claim, shall have
received the rents and profits of such real property, or of some
part thereof, within the space of fortyyears.

Sec. 29. When action cannot be brought by grantee from
the Territory. N 0 action shall be brought for, or in respect to
real property, by any person claiming by vir.tue of letters patent or.;grants from the people ofthis Territory, unless the same

might have been commenced hy.the people, as herein specified,
in case such patent or grant had.not been issued or made.

Sec. 30. When actions by tbapeople or their grantees to be
brought within twenty years. When letters patent or grants
of real property shall have been issued or made by the people
of this Territory, and the same shall be declared void by the
determination of a competent court, rendered upon an allegation of a fraudulent suggestion, or concealment, or forfeiture,
or mistake, or ignorance of a material fact, or wrongful detaining, or defective title,.in such case an action for the recovery of
.rtheyprctnises...,s.o ,convgye,d. may. he brought either by the ‘people

of this Territory, or by any subsequent patentee or grantee of
the same premises, his heirs or assigns, within twenty years

after such determination was made, but not after that period.

Sec. 31. Seizin within twenty; years, when necessary. No
action for the recovery of real property, or for the recovery of
the possession thereof, shall be maintained, unless it appear
that the plaintifff, his ancestor, predecessor, or grantor was
seized or possessed of the premisesin question within twenty
years before the commencement of such action.

See. 32. Seizin within twenty years, when necessary in action or defense founded on title. N 0 cause of action or defense
to an action founded upon the titl'3 to real property, or to rents
or services out of the same, shall be effectual, unless it appear that the person prosecuting the action or making the
defense, orunder whose title the action is prosecuted or the defense is made, or the ancestor, predecessor or grantor of such
person Was seized or possessed of the premises in question, within twenty years before the committing of the act in respect to
which such action is prosecuted or defense made.

Sec. 38. Action after entry or right of entry. No entry upon real estate shall be deemed suliioicnt or valid as a claim, unless
an action be commenced thereupon within one year after the
making of such entry, and within twenty years from the time 1
when the right to make such entry descended or accrued.

Sec. 34. Possession presumed. Occupation, when deemed‘
under legal title. In every action for the recovery of real prop— i
erty, or the possession thereof, the person establishing a legal
title to the premises shall be presumed to have been possessed
thereof within the time required by law; and the occupation of
such premises by any other person shall be deemed’ to have been
under and in subordination to the legal title, unless it appear
that such premises have been held and possessed adversely to
such legal title for twenty years before the commencement of
such action.

See. 35. Occupation under written instrument. Wlxenever
it~shall appear that the occupant, or those under whom he claims,
entered into the possession of premises under claim of title, exclusive of any other right, founding such claim upon a Written
instrument, as being aconveyanse of. the premises in question,

or upon the decree or judgment of a competent court, and that
there has been a. continued. occupation and possession of the
premises included in such-instrument, decree or j udgmen‘t,. or of
some part of such premises, under such claim,_for twenty years.
the premises so included.sh_a1~l—be_ deemed tophave been held adversely ; except that where the premises so included consist of
a tract divided into lots, the possession of one lot shall not be
deemed a possession of any other. lot of the same tract.Sec..' 36. _ Adverse possession-. For the purpose of constitu- ;
ting an adverse possession, by any person claiming a title
founded upon a tvritteninstrument or a judgment or decree,

land shall be deemed to have been possessed and occupied in
the following cases:

1. Where it has been usually cultivated on improved;
5?. Where it has been protected. by a substantial enclosure;
3.. Where, although not inclosed, it has been used for the

supply of fuel or of fencing timber, for the purposes of husbandry, or the ordinary use of the occupant ;

4. Where a known farm or a single lot has been partly improved, the portion of such farm or lot that may havepbeentleft

not cleared or not inclosed, according to the usual courseand
custom. of the adjoining country, shallbe deemed to have been
occupiedfor the same length of time as the part improvedand
cultivated.

: Sec. _37. Premisesactually 0C6,’l1§l7?0d']teld adversely. Where

it shall appear that, there hasbeen an actual continued occu_p,a,tion of premises, under a claim’ of title exclusive of any other

right, but not founded upon a written instrument or a judg,ment or. decree, the premises so actually occupied, and no
other, shall be deemed to have been held adversely.

Sec. 38. Adverse possession under claim not written. For
the purpose of constituting an adverse possession, by a person
claiming title not founded upon a written» instrument or judgment or decree, land shallbe deemed to have been possessed
and occupied in the following cases only: i

1. Where it has been protected by a, substantial enclosure;

2. Where it has been usually cultivated.-or-improved.

Sec. 39. Relation of landlord and tenant. Whenever the
relation of landlord and tenant shall have existed between any

~-persons, the possession ofethe tenant shall be deemed the possession of the landlord, until the expiration of twenty years
from the termination of the tenancy; or, where there has been
no written lease, until the expiration of twenty years from the
time of the last payment of rent, notwithstanding that such
tenant may have acquired another title, or may have claimed
td hold adversely to his landlord. But such presumptions shall
not be made after the periods herein limited.

Sec. 40. Des:ent:cast. The right of a person to the possession of any real property shallinot be impaired or affected
by a descent being.cast in consequence of thedeath of a person
in possession of such property.

Sec. 41. Personsunder disabilities. If aperson entitled
to commence any action for the recovery of real property, or

to make an entry or defense founded on the title to real property, or to rents or services out of the same, be, at the time
such title shall first descend or accrue, either:

1. Within the age of twenty-one years ; or,

2. Insane; or,

3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in .execution*-upon
conviction of a criminal oifence for a term less than for life; or,

4. A married Woman; the timeduring which such disability
shall continue-shall not be deemed any portion ~»of the time in
this chapter limited for the commencement of such action, or
the making of such entry or defense; but such action maybe
commenced, or entry or defense made, after the period of
twenty years, and within ten_.years after- the disability shall
cease, or after the death of the person entitled who shall die
under such disabilityz; but such action shall not be commenced
or entry or defense made, after that period.

CHAPTER III.

TIME OF COMMENCING ACTIONS OTHER THAN FOR THE RECOVERY
:OF REAL PROPERTY.

.Ssc:r1oN 42. Limitations prescribed.

43. Twenty years.

44. SIX years.

45. Three years.

46. Two ‘years.

-.47. One year.

Savrxosr 48’: Actionupon a current account.
49. Action for penalties.
50. Action for other relief.

51. Action by the people.

See. 42. Periods of limitation prescribed. The periods‘
prescrit ed in section 27 for the commencement of actions other A
than for the recovery of real property shall be as follows:

Sec. 43. Twenty years. Within twenty years:

1. An action upon a judgment or decree of any court of the
United States, or of any State or Territory within the United
States; I

2. An action upon a sealed instrument.

Sec. 44. Six years. Within six years‘:

1. An action upon a contract, obligation or liability, express
or .implied, excepting those mentioned in section 43;

2. An actiorr upon a liability— created by statute, other than
anpenalty or forfeiture ;3. An action for trespass upozr real property ; .

4. An action for‘ taking, detaining or injuring any goods or
chattels, including actions for the specific recovery of personal
property ;: v

5. An actionfor criminahconversation,..or for any other
injury to the person or rights of another, not arising on contract, and not hereinafter enumerated;

6. An action for relief on the groundvof fraud, in cases.
which heretofore were solely cognizable by the court of’charrcery, the cause of action in such caseinot to be deemed to
have accrued until the discovery, by the aggrieved party, of
the facts constituting the fraud.

Sec. 45. T/tree years. Within three years:

1; An action against a slieriff, coroner or constable, upon a
liability incurred by the doing of an act in his oliicial capacity,
and in virtue of his office, or by the omission of an ofticial duty,
including the non-payment of money collected upon an execution. But this section shall not apply to an'a'etion for an
escape: .

2. An action upon a statute, for a penalty ‘or’-rforfeiture,
where the action«is given to the party aggrieved,-’+Ler to such
party and the people of this -llerritory, except whereathe statute imposing it=~.prescribes«a.d§'erentlimitation.~

Sec. 46. I200 years. Within two years:

1. An action for libel, slander, assault, battery, or false imprisonrnent.

2. An action upon a statute, for a forfeiture or penalty to the
people of this Territory.

Sec. 47. One year. Within one year:

1. An action against 9. sheriff or other oliicer, for the escape
of a prisoner arrested or imprisoned on civil process.

See. 48. Action upon a current account. In an action
brought to recover a balance due upon a mutual, open, and current account, Where there have been reciprocal demands bex
tween the parties, the cause of action shall be deemed to have
accrued from the time of the last item proved in the account on
either side. ,

Sec. 49. Actions for penalties go. An action upon a statute, for a penalty or forfeiture given in Whole or in part to any
person who will prosecute for the same, must be commenced
Within one year after the commission of the offense ; and if the
action be not commenced Within the year by a private party, it
may be commenced within two years thereafter in behalf of the
people o.f this Territory, by the district attorney of the county
where the offense was committed.

Sec. 50. Actions for other relief. An action for relief not
liereinbefore provided for must be commenced within ten years
after the cause of action shall have accrued.

Sec. 51. Actions by the people. The limitations prescribed

in this chapter shall apply -to actions brought in the name of the
people of this Territory, or for their benefit, in the same manner as to actions by private parties.

CHAPTER IV.

GENERAL PROVISIONS AS TO THE TIME or COMMENCING Acrrons.

Hacrron 52. When action deemed commenced.
53. Exception, defendant out of Territory.

54. Exception as to person under disabilities.

55. Death of person entitled before limitation expires.
56. Suits by aliens. ‘

.57. Where judgment reversed.

58. Stay of action by injunction, kc.

ncrxox 59. Disability must exist when right accrued.
60. Two or more disabilities.

6.1. This title when not to apply.
62. The like. _
63. New promise must be in writing.

Sec. 52. When action deemed commenced. An action is
ommenced as to each defendant when the summons is served
on him, or on a co—dcfendant who is a joint contractor or othervise united in interest with him. An attempt to commence an
.ction is deemed equivalent to the commencement thereof,
rithin the meaning of this title, when the summons is delivered,

vith the intent that it shall be actually served, to the sheriff or
ather oilicer of the county in which the defendants, or one of
hem, usually or last resided; as, ifa corporation be defendant,
o the sheriff or other officer of the county in which such corpo-ation was established by law, or Where its general business was

ransacted, or where it kept an ethos for the transaction ofbusiness. But such an attempt must be followed by the first publization of the summons, or the service thereof, within sixty
lays.

Sec. 53. Exception, defendant out of Territory. If, when
he cause of action shall accrue against any person, he shall be
mt of the Territory, such action may be commenced within the
verms herein respectively limited, after the return of such person intothis Territory; and if, after such cause of action shall
iave accrued, such person shall depart from and reside out of .
his Territory, the time of his absence shall not be deemed or.
;aken as any part of the time limited for the commencement of
such action. i

Sec. 54. Exceptions, persons under disabilities. If a per~
5011 entitled to bring an action mentioned in the last chapter,
except for a penalty or forfeiture, or against a sheriff or other
niiicer, for an escape, be at the time the cause of action accrued,
either; '

1. Within the age of twenty-one years‘ ; or,

2. Insane; or,

3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge: or, in execution under
the sentencie of a criminal court, for a term less than his natural life ; or, 1

4. A married‘ woman ;

The time of such disability is not a part of the time limited
for the commencement of the action; except that the period
within which the action must be brought cannot be extended
more than five years by any such disability, except infancy;
nor can it be extended in any‘ case longer than one year after

the disability ceases.

Sec. 55. Death ofperson entitled before limitation expires.
If a person entitled to bring an action die before the expira:
tion of the time limited for the commencement thereof, and thcause of action survive, an action may be commenced by hi‘
representatives, after the expiration of that time, and withii
one year from his death. If a person against whom an actioi
may be brought die before the ‘ expiration of the time limiter
for the commencement thereof, and the cause of action survive

an action may be commencedagainst his executors or administrators after the expiration of that time, and within one year
after the issuing ofletters testamentary-or of administration.

Sec. 56. Actions by aliens. Whenra person shall be an
alien subject, or citizen of a country at war with the United
States, the time of the continuance of the war shall not be part
of the period limited for the commencement of the action.

Sec. 57.3 TW¢ere judgmentreversed. IE an action shall bt \
commenced‘ within the time prescribed therefore, and a judg
ment therein‘-be reversed on appeal, the plaintifff, or, if he die x
and cause of” action survive, his heirs -or representatives ma} ‘
commence arnewraction within one year after the reversal.

Sec: 582' Time of stay by inju«nctionv‘,- gf-c.~ When the com- ‘
mencement" of an action shallvbe stayed by injunction or statutoryprohirbitiou, the time of the continuance of the injunction
or prohibition shall not be part of the time limited for the
commencement ‘of the action.

See. 59. Disability mustereist when right of action accrued, A
"No person shall avail himself of a disability, unless it existed §
when his right of action accrued.

Sec. 60. Wlciere several disabilities, all must be removed.
When two or more disabilities shall co-exist at the time the A
right of action accrues,»-the limitation shall not attach unti.
they all be removed.

Sec. 61. This title not applicable to bills, gj~c., of_corpora-‘I.
tions, or to bank notes. This title shall not affect actions to l
enforce the payment of bills, notes, or other evidences of debt,
issued by money-ed corporations, or issued or put in circulation
as money. ‘

Sec. 62. Nor'to actions‘ against directors, g’~c., of moneyed
corporations or banking associations. Limitation in such cases
prescribed. This title shall not affect actions against directors
or stockholders of a moneyed corporation, or banking associa-’
tion, to recover a penalty or forfeiture imposed, or‘to enforce a
liability created by law; but such actions must be brought
within six years after the discovery, by the aggrieved party, of
the facts upon which the penalty or forfeiture attached, or the
liability was created.

Sec. 63.,AcIcnowledg-ment or new promise must be made in
writing. No acknowledgment or promise shall be suliicient
evidence of a new or continuing contract, whereby to take the
case out of the operation of this title, unless the same be com
tained in some writing signed by the party to be charged thereby; but this section shall not alter the effect of any payment
oi5"1principal or interest.

TITLE III.

PARTIES TO CIVIL ACTIONS.

o

Sac-rxox 64. Partyia interest to sue. Action by grantee of land held
adversely. .

65. Assignment of thing in action. ,

66. Actions by executor, trustee. &c.

67. Actions by and against married women.‘

08. Infants, actions by and against.‘

69. Guardian-,».how appointed».

70. Who may be plaintifffs.

71. Who may be defendants,

72. One or more may sue ordefendifor all:

73. One action against the different parties to Hills and notes.
74. Action when not to alnlib.

75.. Uoart to decideaoontroversy, '&c.~ Intorpleading.

Sec. 64. Actionito be byparty in interest. Action by grantee of land held adversely. Every action must be prosecuted
in the name of the real party in interest, except as otherwise
provided in section 66; but this section shall not be deemed to authorize the assignment of a. thing in action not arising
out of contract. But an action may be maintained by a. grantee
of land in the name of a grantor, when the grant or grants
are void by reason of the actual possession of a person claiming under a title adverse to that of the grantor at the time of the

delivery of thegrant, and the plaintifff shall be allowed to
prove the facts to bring the case within this provision.

Sec. 65. Assignment of thing in action. In the case of an
assignment of a. thing in action, the action by the assignee shall
be without prejudice to any set-off or other defense existing
at the time of, or before notice of, the assignment ; but this section shall not apply to a negotiable promissory note or bill of
exchange, transferred in good faith, and upon good consideration, before due. ’

Sec. 66. Action by e:z:eeuto'r, trustee, J-c. An executor or
administrator, a trustee of an express trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute, may sue, without joining with
him the person for whose benefit the action is prosecuted. A
trustee of an express trust, within the meaning of this section,
shall be construed to include a person wi.l1 whom or in whose
name a contract is made for the benefit ofanother.

See. 67. -Action by and against a wnarried woman. When

a. married woman is a party, her husband must be joined with
her, except that, i

3. When the action concerns her separate property, she may
may sue alone;

2. \Vhen the action is between herself and her husband, she
may sue or be sued alone. And in no case need she prosecute
or defend by a guardian or next friend.

See 68. Infant to appear by guardian. When an infantis
a party, he must appear by guardian, who may be appointed by
the court in which the action is prosecuted. or by ajudgo thereof, or a county judge. i

Sec. 69. Appoinlnzent of guardian. The guardian shall be
appointed as follows: «

1. When the infant is plaintifff, upon the application of the
infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years ; or ifunder that age,
upon the application of his general or testamentary guardian,
ifhe has any, or of a relative or friend of the infant‘. Ifmade
by a relative or friend of --theinfant, notice thereof must first
be given to such guardian, if he has one; if he has none, then
to the- person with Whom’ such infant resides. T T

2. When the infant is defendant, upon the application of
the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, and applyi
within twenty days after the service of summons. If he be
under the age of fourteen, or neglects so to apply, then upon
the application of any otherparty to the action, or of la.’ relative
or friend of the infant, after notice of such application being
first given to the general or testamentary guardian of such infant, if he has one within this Territory; if he has none, then
to the infant himself, if over fourteen years of age and within
the Territory; or if under that age, and within the Territory
to the person with whom such infant resides. And in actions
for the partition of real property, ‘or for the foreclosure of a. ‘
mortgage or other instrument, when an infant defendant resides
out of this Territory, the plaintifff may apply to the court in
which the action is pending, at any special term thereof, and
will be entitled to an order designating some suitable person to
be the guardian for the infant defendant, for the purposes of
the action, unless the infant defendant, or some one in his behalf, Within a number of days after the service of a copy of the
order, which number of days shall be in the said order specified, ‘
shall procure to be appointed aguardian for the said infant;
and the court shall give specialidirections in the order for the
manner of the service" thereof, which may be upon the infant
himself, or by service upon any relation or person with whom
the infant resides, and either by mail or personally upon the
person so served. And incase an infant defendant, having an
interest in the event of the action, shall reside‘ in any state
with which there shallnot -be a. regular communication by mail,
on such-fact satisfactorily appearing to -the court, the court may
appoint a guardian ad litem, for such absent infant party, for
the purpose of protecting the right of such infant in said action,
and on such guardian ad litem, process, pleadings and. notices

in the action may be served, in the like manner as upon a party
residing in this Territory.

Sec. 70. Who to be plaintzfs. All persons having an in-terest in the subject of the action, and in obtaining the relief
demanried,.may be joined.as plaintiffs, except as otherwise pro-~

.vided~in. thisrtitle.

Sec. 71. Who to bedefendant. Any person may he made

a defendant who has or claims an interest in the controversy

~ad.verse to the plaintifff, or who is a necessary party to a complete determination or settlement of the questions involved
therein. '

Sec. 72. Parties to be joined, Jo. Of the parties to the action, those who are united in interest must be joined as plaintids
or defendants; but if the consent of any one who should have
been joined as plaintifff cannot be obtained, he may be made a
defendant, the reason thereof being stated in the complaint;
and when the question.is one of a common or general interest
of many persons, or when the parties .are very numerous and «it
may be impracticable to bring them. all. before the-co-nrt,.one
or more may sue or defendfor the benefit of the whole.

, Sec. 73. Parties to bills and notes, gm. Persons severallv
‘liable upon the same obligation or instrument, including the
parties to bills of exchange and promissory notes, may all, or
any of them, be-included in the same action, at the option of
the plaintifff.

Sec. 7 4. Action when not to abate. No action shall abate
by the death, marriage, or other disability of a—-«party, or by the
transfer of any interest therein, if the cause of action survive
or continue. In.oase of death, marriage,~ or other disabilityvof
a party, the .court, on motion, at any time within» one year
thereafter, or afterwards on a supplemental complaint, may
allow the action to be- continued by or against his representatives or successor in interest. In case oihany other transfer of
interest, the action shall-‘be continued inane name of the orig.
iual party, orvthe court~‘may.allow.the person to whom the trans.
fer is made to.bve~substi-tuted -in ,the action- After a verdict
shall be rendered in-a~ny~ action. for a wrong, such action shall
not abate by the death of any party, but the case shall proceed

thereafter in the «same manner as inacasea» where the...cause»-cf.

action now survives by law. At any time after the death, mar-iage, or other disability of the. party plaintifff, the court in
vhich an action is pending, upon notice to such persons as it
nay direct, and upon application of any person aggrieved, may,
11 its discretion, order that the action be deemed abated, uness the same be continued by the proper parties, within a time
;o be fixed by the court, not less than six months nor exceeds
n-g one year from the granting of the order. '

Sec. 75. Court may determine controversy, gj"c. Interpleadc.-r.
Fhe court may determine any controversy between the parties
)éfore it, when it can be done without prejudice to the rights of

)thers,:or'by saving their rights, but when a complete determin~'ttion of the controversy cannot be had without the presence of V

ither parties, the court mustcause them to be brought in. And
avhen, in any action for t‘he'recovery of-real or personal prop~
arty, a person not a party to the action, but’having an interest
n the subject thereof, makes application to the court to be made
l party, it may order him to be brought in by ‘the proper amendnent. A defendant against whom an action is pending upon
acontract, or for specific, real, or personal prcperty, may at
any time before answer, upon affidavit that a person not a party
to the action, and without collusion with him, makes against

him a demand for the same debt‘ or property, upon due notice
to such person and the adverse party, apply to the court for an

order to substitute such person in his place, and discharge him

from liability to either party, on his depositing in court the
amount of the debt, ,or delivering the property or its value to

such person as the court maygdirect; and the court may in its

discretion, make the order.

TITLE IV.

OF THE PLACE OF TRIAL OF CIVIL ACTIONS.

Sgcnox 76. Actions to be tried Where subject matter situated.
77. Actions to be tried where cause of actionarose.
78. Actions to be tried where the parties reside.
79. Changing place .of trial.

Sec. 76. Actions to be tried where subject matter situated.
Actions for the following causes must be tried in the county in
which the subject of the action, or some part thereof, is situated,

subject to the power of the court to change the plape of trial,
in the cases provided by statute: 1, For the recovery of real
property, or of an estate or interest therein, or for the determination in any form of such right or interest, and for injuries
to real property; 2, For the partition of real property; 3,
For the fore-closure of a mortgage of real property; 4, For
the recovery of personal property distrained for any cause.

Sec. 77. Actions to be tried where‘ cause of action arose.

Actions for the following causes must be tried in the county

where theeause, or some part thereof, arose, subject to the
like power of the court to change the place of trial, in the cases provided by statute : 1, For the recovery of a penalty or
forfeiture imposed by statute, except that, when it is imposed
for an ofence committed on a lake, or river, or other stream of
water situated in two or more counties the action may be
brought in any county bordering on such lake, river, or stream,
and oppositeto the place where the offense was committed : 2,
Against a public oilicer, or person speciallsy appointed to execute his duties, for an act done by him in virtue of his oiiice, or
against a person who, by his command or his aid, shall do anything touching the duties of‘ such officer.

Sec. 78. Action to be tried where parties reside. In all
other cases the action shall be tried in the county in which the
defendants or any of them, shall reside at the commencement

of the action, or may be summoned; or, if none of the parties
shall reside in the Territory, the same maybe tried in any
county which the plaintifff shall designate in his-complaint, subs
j'ect,. however, to the power of the court to change the place of
trial in the cases provided by statute.

Sec. 79. Change of place of trial. If the county designated for that purpose in the complaint be not the proper county,

the action may, notwithstanding, be tried therein, unless the
defendant, before the time for answering expire. demand in

writing that the trial he had in the proper county, and the place
of trial he thereuponchanged by consent of parties, or by order
of the court, as provided in this section. The court may change

the place of trial in the followingcases:

1. When the county designated for that purpose in the complaint is not the proper county.

5.’, When there is reason to believe that an impartial trial
cannot be had therein: ‘

.3, When the convenience of witnesses and the ends of justice would be promoted by the change. When the place of
trial is changed all other proceedings shall be hadin the county
to which the place of trial is changed, unless otherwise provided by the consent of the parties, in writing, duly filed, or‘
order of the court: and the papers shall be filed or transferred
accordingly. ‘

TITLE V.

MANNER OF COMMENCING‘ CIVIL ACTIONS.

SECTION 80 Actions how commenced.

81. Summons, requisites of.

82. Notice to be inserted in summons.

83. Complaint need not be served~with summons.
8'1. Defendant unreasonably defending.

85. Notice of pendens.

86. Service of summons.

87. Return of summons.

88. Publication of summons. \
89. Proceedings ‘when part only of defendants served.
90. When service complete.

91. Proof of service.

92. When jurisdiction of action acquired.

_ Sec. 80. Actions how commenced. Civil actions in the

courts of this Territory shall be commenced by the service of a 8

SIIIDIIIOUS.

Sec. 81. Summons, requisites of. The summons shall be
subscribed by the plaintifff or ‘his attorney, and directed to the

defendant, and shall require him to answer the complaint, and
serve a copy of his answer on the person whose name is subscribed to the summons, at a place within the Territory, to be
therein specified, in which there is a post—office, within thirty
days after the service of the summons, czrelusive of the day of

service.

Sec. 82. Notice 2'3 to bciinserted in summons. The plaintifff shall also -insert inrthe summons a notice, in substance as
follows:

*1, In an action arising on contract, for the recovery of money only, that he will take judgment forasum specihed therein,-if the defendant fail to answer the complaint in thirty
days after the service of the summons.

2, In other actions, that if the defendant shall fail to answer the complaint within thirty days after the service of
the summons, the plaintifff will apply-to the court for the relief demanded in the complaint.

Sec. 83. Service of complaint. A copy of the complaint
need not be served with the summons. In such case, the summons must state where the complaint is or will be filed ; and if
the defendant, within thirty days thereafter, cause notice of
appearance to be given, and, in person or by attorney, demand
in writing, a. copy of the complaint, specifying a. place within
the‘Territory where it may be served, a copy thereof must, within twenty days thereafter be served accordingly ; and after such
service, the defendant has thirty days to answer ; but only one
copy need be served on the same attorney.

Sec. 8-}. Notice of no personal claim. In the case of a. defendant against whom no personal claim is made, the plaintifff

may deliver to such defendant, with the summons, a notice subscribed by the plaintifff or his attorney, setting forth the general
object of the action, a brief description of the property affected
‘by it, ifit affects specific, real or personal property, and that
no personal claim is made against such defendant, in which case
:no copy of the complaint need be served on such defendant, unless within the time for answering he shall, ‘in writing, demand»
the same. If a defendant on whom such notice is served unreasonably defend the action, he shall pay costs to the plaintifff. '

Sec. 85. Notice of life pendens. In an action alfectingithe
title to real property the plaintiii, at the time of filing the complaint, or at any other time afterward, or whenever a warrant
of attachment, under chapter four of title seven, part second
of this code, shall be issued, or at any time afterwards, the
plaintifff, or 33- defendant when he sets up an affirmative pause

of actio'n’in his answer and demand a substantive relief, at the
time of‘Hling his answer, or at any time afterwards, if the same
be intended to affect real estate, may file with thevregister of
deeds ofcach county in which the ‘property is situated a notice
of the pendeucy of the action, containing the names of the
parties, the object of the action, and the description of the
property in that county affected thereby; and if the action be
for the foreclosure of a mortgage, such notice must be filed
twenty days before judgment, and must contain the date of the
mortgage, the parties thereto, and the time and place of recordir;-g the same. From the time of filing~only shall the pen(lency of the action be constructive -notice to a purchaser or

encumbrance of the property affected thereby; and every per»
son whose conveyance or incuwlbrance is subsequently execu-ted or subsequently recorded, shall be deemed a subsequent

purchaser or incumhrance, and -shall be bound by all proceedings taken after the filing of such notice to the same extent as
if he were made a party to the action. For the purpose of this
section an action shall be deemed to be pending from the time

of filing such notice:

Provided, however, That such notice shall be of no avail unless it shall be followed by the first publication of the summons
on an order therefore, or by the personal service thereof on a
defendant within sixty days after such filing. And the court
in which the said action was commenced may, in its discretion,
at-any time after the action shall be settled, discontinued or
abated, as is provided in section number seventy-four, on ap-a
plieation of any person aggrieved, and on good cause shown, and
on such notice as shall be directed or approved by the court,
order the notice authorized by this section to be cancelled of
record by the register of deeds of any county in whose office
the same may have been filed or recorded; and such cancellation shall be made by an indorsement to that effect on the margin of the record, which shall refer to the order, and for which
the register of deeds shall be entitled to a fee of twenty-five

cents.

Sec. 86. Service of summons. The summons shall be served
by delivering a copy thereof as follows: .
1. If the suit ‘be against in corporation, to the president or

other head of the corporation, secretary, cashier, treasurer, a
director, or managing agent thereof; but such service can be
made in respect to a foreign corporation only when it has property within this Territory, or the cause of action arose therein,
or where such service shall be ‘made within this Territory personally upon the president, treasurer or secretary thereof;

2. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years, tosuch minor personally, and also to his father, mother, or guardian; or if there be none within the Territory, then to any
person having the care and control of such minor, or with whom
he shall reside, or in whose service he shall be employed;

3. If against a person judicially declared to be of unsound
mind, or incapable of conducting his own a&'airs in consequence
of habitual drunkenness, and for whom a committee has been
appointed, to such committee and to the defendant personally;

4. In all other cases, to the defendant personally.

See. 87. Summons, by whom served, and return of same.
The summons may be served by the sheriff of the county where
the defendant may be found, or by any other person not a
party to the action. The service shall be made, and the summons returned with proof of the service to the person whose
name is subscribed thereto, with all reasonable diligence. The
person subscribing the summons may, at his option, by an endorsement on the summons, Ex a time for the service thereof,
and the service shall then be made «accordingl y.

Sec. 88. Service by publization. Where the person on whom
the service of the‘ summons is to be made cannot, after due
diligence, be found within the Territory, and that fact appears
by affidavit to the satisfaction of the court or a judge thereof,
and it in like manner appears that a cause of action exists
against the defendant in respect to whom the service is to be
made, or that he is a proper party to an action relating to real
property in this Territory, such court or judge may grant
an order that the service be made by the publication of a
summons in either of the following cases:

1. Where the defendant is a foreign corporation, has property within the Territory, or the cause of action arose therein ;

2. Where the defendant, being a resident of this Territory,

_ has departed therefrom, with intent to defraud his creditors,

or to avoid the service of a summons, or keeps himself conceala
ed therein with the like intent ;

3. Where he is not a resident of this Territory, but has property therein, and the court has jurisdiction of the subject of the
action ; T

4. “There the subject of the action is real or personal property in this Territory, and the defendant has or claims alien
or interest, actual or contingent, therein, or the reliefdemanded

consists wholly or partly in excluding the defendant from any
interest or lien therein ;

5. ‘Where the action is for divorce, in the cases prescribed
by law. The order must direct the publication to be made in
some newspaper to be designated as most likely to give notice
to the person to he served, and for such lengths of time as may
be deemed reasonable, not less than once a week for six weeks.
In case of publication, the court or judge must also direct a
copy of the summons and complaint to be forthwith deposited
in the post office, directed to the person to be served, at his
place of residence, unless it appearthat such residenceis neither
known to the party making the application, nor can with rease
onable diligence be ascertained by him. When publication is
ordered, personal service of a copy of the summons and com~
plaint, out of the Territory, is equivalent to publication and
deposit in the post oHice. The defendant against whom publication is ordered, or his representatives, on applieatio and
sufficient cause shown at any time before judgment, must be
allowed to defend the action; and, except in an action for divorce, the defendant against whom publication is ordered or
his representatives, may, in like manner, upon good cause
shown, be allowed‘ to defend after judgment, or at any time
within one year after notice thereof, and within seven years
after its rendition, on such terms as may be just; and if the
defense be successful, and the judgment or any part thereof
have been collected, or otherwise enforced, such restitution
may thereupon be compelled as the court directs; but the title
to property sold under such judgment to a purchaser in good
faith shall not be thereby aifected. And in all cases where publication is made, the complaint must be first filed, and the sun»mons, as published, must state the time and place of such filing.

In actions for the foreclosure of mortgages on real estate, already instituted, or hereafter to be instituted, if any party or
parties having any interest in or lien-upon such mortgaged
premises are unknown to the plaintifff, and the residence of
such party or parties cannot, with reasonable diligence, be ascertained by him, and such fact shall be made to appear, by
affidavit, to the court, or to a justice thereof, such court orjusttce may grant an order that the summons be served on such
unknown party or parties by publishing the same for six weeks,
once in each week successively, in the ofiicial paper of the Territory, and in a newspaper printed in the county where the premises are situated, provided a paper he published in such county,
and if no_paper be published in the county, then in a paper
published nearest the county seat of such county in the '1'er.r'i~
tory, which publication shall be equivalent to a personal service
on such unknown party or parties. i

Sec. 89. Joint and several debtors. Where the action is
against two or more defendants, and the summons is served -on
one or more. but-not on all of them, the plaintifff may proceed as

follows :
1. If the action be against defendants jointly indebted upon
contract, he -may proceed against the defendant served, unless

the court otherwise direct; and if he recover judgment, it may
be entered against all the defendants thus jointly indebted so far

only as that it may be enforced against the joint property ofalln _

and the separate property of the defendants served, and if they
are subject to arrest, against the persons of the «defendants
served ; or,

2. If the action be against defendants severally liable, he may
proceed against the defendants served, in .the same manner as
if they were the only defendants.

3. if all the defendants have been served, judgment may be
taken against any or either of them severally, when the plaintiff
would be entitled to udgment against such defendant or defendants, ifthe action had been against them, or any of them alone.

4. If the name of one or more parties shall, for any cause,
have been omitted in any action in which judgment shall have
passed against the defendants named in the summons, and such
omission shall not have been pleaded in such action, the plaintifff, in case the judgment therein shall remain unsatisfied, may
by action recover of such partner separately, upon proving his
joint liability, notwithstanding he may not have been named in
the original action; but the plaintifff shall have satisfaction of
only one judgment rendered for the same cause of action.

See. 90. When service complete. In the cases mentioned
in section 88, the service of the summons shall be deemed complete at the expiration of the time prescribed by therorder for
publication.

Sec. 91. Proof of service. Proof of the service~o-P the summons, and of! the complaint or notice,.i:t' any, aceompanying the*
same, must be as follows:

1, If served by the sheriff, his certificate thereof ;. or,
2, If by any other person, his affidavit thereof; or,.

3, In case of publication, the aihdavit of. the printer,.er his
foreman, or principal clerk, shovving the same, and‘an aiiidavit
ofa deposit of a copy of the summdns in the post-oliice, as requiredby law, if the same shall have been "deposited; ‘or,
4, The Written admission of the defendant. In case of set»

vice otherwise than by publication, the certificate, aihdavit or
admission must state the time and place of the service.

See. 92. Jurisdiction. Appearance. From the time of the
service of the summons in a civil action, or the» allowance of a
provisional remedy, the court is deemed to have acquired jurisdiction, and to have control of all the subsequent proceedings.
A voluntary appearance of a defendant is equivalent to personalservice of the summons upon him.. ’

TITLE VI’,

(3n.u-‘ran I. The complaint.
II. The demurrer.
III. The answer.

IV. The reply. _
V. General rules of pleading.

V-.1’. Mistakes and umetrdmen ts.‘.

CHAPTER I.

THE COMPLAINT.

SECTION 93. Forms of pleading.
94. Complaint.
95. Complaint, what to contain.

Sec. 93. Forms of pleadmg. All forms of pleading here~
tofore existing are abolished; and hereafter, the forms of pleading in civil actions in courts of record, and the rules by which
the sufiiciency of the pleadings is to be determined, are those
prescribed by this act.

Sec. 94. Complaint. The first pleading on the part of the
plaintifff is the complaint.

Sec. 95. 0ompZaz°nt, what to can-tain. The complaint shall
contain : .

1, The title of the cause, specifying the name of the court
in which the action is brought, the name of county in which
the plaintifff desires the trial to be had, and the names of the
parties to the action, plaintifff and defendant.

“2, A plain and concise statement of the facts constituting a
cause of action, without unnecessary repetition.

3, A demand of theiijelief to which the plaintifffsupposes him-.
self entitled. If the7..,.:;f-f‘;,é3covery of money he demanded, the
amount thereof shall beiistated.

0

CHAPTER II.

THE DEMURRER.

SECTION 96. Defendant to demur or answer.

97, When the defendant may demur.
98. Demurrer, what to specify.

99. How to proceed if complaint be amended.
100. Objection not appearing on complaint.
101; Objection, when waived.

Sec. 90. Defendant demur or answer. The only pleading on
the part of defendant is‘e"rther a demurrer or an answer. It must be
be served within thirty ‘days after the service of the copy of the
complaint.

Sec. 97. When defendant may demur. The defendant may demu

to the complaint when it shall appear upon the face thereof, either], That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the defendant, or the subject of the action; or,
2. That the plaintifff has not legal capacity to sue; or,

3, That there is another action pending between the same parties,
for the same cause; or,

4, That there is a defect of parties, plaintifff or defendant; or,
5, That several causes of action have been improperly united;'
or,

6, That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action.

See. 98. Demurrcr must s]9ccv_°/jy grounds of 0?y'(ct1'0n.
murrer shall distinctly specify the grounds of objection to the complaint. Unless it do so, it may be disregarded. It may be taken to

the whole complaint, or to any of the alleged causes of action stated therein.

Sec. 99. How to pr0ccc(lv°fc0m_plat°71tbe amended. If the complaint be amended, a copy thereof must be served on the defendant,
who must answer it within thirty days, or the plaintifff, upon filing
with the clerk on due proof of the service, and of the defendant’s
omission, may proceed to obtain judgment, as provided by section
199, but where an application to the court for judgment is necessary, ten day’s notice thereof must be given to the defendant.

Sec. 100. Olgjrzction not a}>y)(--c.'.;o-:'ng on complaint. ‘Vhen any of
the matters enumerated in section 97 do not appear upon the face of
the complaint, the objection may be taken by answer.

Sec. 101. Olgjcc-lion, when deemed era-iced. If no such objection
be taken either by demurrer or answer, the defendantshall be deemed to have waived the same, excepting only the objection to the jurisdiction of the court, and the objection that the complaint does not
state facts sufficient to constitute aeause of action.

CHAPTER III.

THE ANSWER.

S£e'rIoN 102. Answer. what to contain.
103. Counter~claim. Several defenses.
104. Demurrer and answer, when allowed.
105. Sham and irrelevant defenses to be stricken out.

V
I

The de- .

Sec. 102. Answer, what to coata:'n. The answer of the defendant

must contain—1, A general or specific denial‘ of each material allegation of the

’ complaint controverted by the defendant, or of any knowledge or information thereof sufiicient to form a belief:

2, A statement of any new matter constituting a defense or counterclaim, in ordinary and concise language, without repetition.

Sec. 103- Counter-cZcu'~m. Several dcfcnccs. The counter.~clain1
mentioned. in thewlast section must betone existing in favor of-a de~
fcndant, and against a plaintifff, between whom a several judgment
might be had in the action, and arising, out of one of the following
causes ofaetion: '

1,.A cause of action arising out of the contract or transaction set
forth in the complaint as the foundatieaot‘ the plaintifffs claim;.or
connected with the subject of the actions;

2, In an action arising on contract, any other cause of action aris’ ihg also on contract, existing at the commencement of the action.

The defendant may set forth by answer as many defenses and counter-elaims as he may have, whether they be such as have been heretofore denominated legal or equitable, or bntll. They must each be
separately stated, and refer to the causes of action which they are intended to answer, in such“ manner that-' they may be intelligib7y distinguished.

Sec. 104. Dmnurrer amltznswc-r. The defendant may demur to
one or more ofseveral causes of action stated in the complaint, and
answer the residue.

Sec. 105. S/mm and '[r.reZcva-nt (Zn/'e'nce.s. Sham and irrelevant
answers and defenses may be stricken out on motion, and upon such
terms as the. court may intheir discretion‘ impose.

GIIAPTER IV.

Tiffl REPLY.»

S’i:e'r1oN 106. Reply. Demurrer to answer.
107. Motion for judgment upon answer.
108. Demurrer to reply.

*‘ Sec. 106. Reply. Dcmzm.-er to answer.‘ When‘ the answer contains» new matter. constitutingmceunter-claim-; the plaintilil mag}.

within thirty days, reply" to such new matter, denying generally or
specifically‘ each allegation controverted by him, or any knoweldge or

information thereof suiiicient to form ,a belief ; and he may allege, in“
ordinary and concise language, without repetition, any,.new"*" matter

not inconsistent with the complaint, constituting a defense to-such

new matter in the answer’; and the plaintifff may in-all cases demur
to an answer containing new matter, where, upon its face, it does
not constitute a counterclaim or defense, and the plaintifff may deu

mur to one or more of such defenses or counterclaims, and reply to
the residue of the counterveclaims. And in other cases, when an answer contains new matter constituting a defense by way of avoidance,
the court may, in its discretion, on the defendant’s motion, require
a reply t‘e"’such new matter 3 and in that case, the reply shall be sub»
ject to the same rules as a reply to a counteraclaim.

Sec. 107. Motion for judgment an answer. If the answer contain
a. statement of new matter constituting a counter-«claim, and the'
plaintifff fail to reply or demur thereto within the time ‘prescribed by
‘law, the defendant may move, on a notice of not less than ten days, «
for such judgment»-as he is entitled to~upon~vsuch statement, audit’
the case require it, a writ of inquiry of damages may be issued.

Sec. 108. Demtwrer toweply. If-,9.» reply‘ of the plaintifffs to any
defense set up? by the answer of the defendant be insuiiicient, the
defendant may-demur thereto.,.anci-shallstate the grounds thereof. CHAPTER V.>'
GENERAL RULES or ELEADING.-~‘

Sr:‘e'rroN 109-. Pleadiugs to be subscribed! and \'er.'rfied-2-5»"
» 110." Pleadings, how verified. '
111. How to state an aecountin‘ pleading. - 112. Pleadings to beliherally*~-teonstru-ed.

113. Irrelevan t' or redundant matter -to be stricken out,
and indefinite matter made more definite.

114. Judgment, how as he pleaded‘. i:

I15. Conditions precedent, how‘ to bepleaded. 116. Private statutes, how to beipleaded.

117.. Libel and slander, how s‘tated=in- complaint;

118. Answer izrsuch cases: '

119.. Answer in actions to recover’ ‘yfropeirtydist-rained-’~

for damage._
120." What causes of action may be joined.”
131:4 Allegatien n'ot- deniedywhemto be deemed"true-2' ‘

, See. 109. Pleadings to be subscribed and verz:/Zed. Every pleading
in a court.of record must be subscribed by tl~e party or his attorney;
and when any pleading is verilied, every subsequent pleading, except
a demurrer, must be verified also.

See. 110. ,PleacZz'ngs, how vcrfml. The verification must be to
the effect that the same is true to the knowledge of the person
making it, except as to those matters stated on information and belief, and, as to those matters, he believes it to be true, and must be
by the aiiidavit of the party, or if there be several parties united in
interest, and pleading together, by one at least of such parties acquainted with the facts, if such party be within the county where
the attorney resides, and capable of making the aiiidavit. The affidavit may also be made by the agent or attorney, if the action or defense be founded upon a written instrumcntfor the payment of money only, and such instrument be in the possession of the agent or at' torney, or if all the material allegations of the pleading be within the ,
personal knowledge of the agent or attorney. When the pleading
is verified by any other person than the party, he shall set forth in
the aliidavit his knowledge, or the grounds of his belief on the sub- ,
,_ject, and the reasons why it is not made by the party. When a cor- l
Po;-ation is a party, the verification may be made by any oliieer there- i
of; and when the Territory, or any officer thereof in its behalf, is a 
party, the verilicatio,n may be made by any person acquainted with 
the facts. The verification may be omitted when an admission oi 1
the truth of the allegation might subject the party to prosecution for 1
felony. And .no pleading can be used in a criminal prosecution
against the party, as proof of a fact admitted or alleged in such
pleading. '

Sec. 111. Items of account. Particulars. It shall not be necessary for a party to set forth in a pleading the items of an account
therein alleged; but he shall deliver to the adverse party, within
ten days after the demand thereof in writing. a copy of the account,
which, if the pleading is verified, must be verified by his own oath,
or that of his agent or attorney, if within the personal knowledge of
such agent or attorney, to the effect that he believes it to be true, or
be precluded from giving evidence thereof. The court, er a judge

‘,7,

thereof, may order a “ further account, when the one delivered is

defective; and the court may in all cases order a bill of particulars
of the claim of either party to be furnished.

Sec. 112. Pleadings, how construed. In the construction of a
pleading for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegation

shall be liberally construed, with a view of substantial justice be»
tween the parties.

Sec. 113. Irrelevant or redundant. Indrifinite or uncertain. If
irrelevant or redundant matter be inserted in a pleading, it may be
stricken out, on motion of any person aggrieved thereby. And when
’the allegations of a pleading. are so indefinite or uncertain that the
precise nature of the charge or defense is not apparent, the court may
require the pleading to be made definite and certain by amendment.

Sec. 114. Judgments, bow to be pteaded. In pleadinga judgment,
‘or other determination of a court or oliicer of special jurisdiction, it
shall not be necessary to ‘state ‘the facts conferring jurisdiction, but
such judgment or determination may be stated to have been duly
given or made. If such allegation be controverted, the party plead-_
ing shall be bound to establish, on the trial, the facts conferring jurisdiction. ,

Sec. 115. Conditions precedent, bozo to be pleaded. Instrument for

l

_.A-I

01

payment of money only. In pleading the performance of conditions i

precedent in a contract, it shall not be necessary to state the-facts
showing such performance; but it may be stated generally that the
"party duly performed all the conditions on his part; and if such allegations be controverted, the party pleading shall be bound to establish, on the trial, the facts showing such performance. In an action
‘or defense founded upon an instrument for the payment of money only, it shall be sufficient for a party to give a copy of the instrument,
and to state that there is due to him thereon from the adverse party a
specified sum, which he claims.

bee. 116. Private statutes, how to be pleaded. In pleading a private statute, ora right derived therefrom,.it shall be sufiicient to revfer to such statute, by its title and the day of its passage, and the
‘court shall thereupon take judicial notice thereof.

Sec. 117. Libel and slander, how stated in complaint. In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be necessary to state in the complaint, any extrinsic facts, for the purpose of showing the application to the plaintifff of the defamatory matter out of which the cause
of action arose, but it shall be suilicicnt to state generally that the
same was published or spoken concerning the plaintifff, and if such
allegation be controverted, the plaintifff shall be bound to establish,
on trial, that it was so published or spoken.

Sec. 118. Answer in s-uchcascs. In the actions mentioned in the
last section, the defendant may, in his answer, allege both thetruth

of the matter charged as defamatory’-and any mitigating circumstances, to reduce the amount of damages; and whether he prove the
justification or not, he may give,-in evidence, the mitigating circumstances.

‘Sec. I19. In actions to recover property chstrainerl for dizmagr,

ianswer ’n€’c(l not set forth‘ title. In an action~~to recover the possession of property distrained doing damage, an answer, that the defendant, or person by whose command he acted, was lawfully possessed
of the real property upon which the distress was made, and that the
property distrained was. at the. time doing damage thereon, shall be
good, without settingforath the title to such real property.

Sec. 120. lWzat cause of action may be joined in the same com-v

plaint. The plaintifffnnay unite in the same complaint several-‘can.

ses of action, whether they be such as have been heretofore denominated legal or equitable, or both, where they all rise out of’,

1, The same transaction, or transactions connected with the samesubject of action;

2, Contract, express or implied; or, ‘

3,, Injuries, with or without force, to person or property; oreither ;i
or

4, -Injuries to character; cr

5,'Claims to=recover real property-, with or without damages for‘
the withholding thereof, and the rents and profits of the same ; or

6, Claims torecover personal property, with or without damages
for the withholding thereof; or

7, Claims against a trustee, by virtue of a contract, or by opera.
tion of law. But the cause of action, so united, must all‘belong toone of these. classes, and,.except in actions for the foreclosure of
mortgages, must affect all. the parties tothe action, and not require
different places »of' trial, and must be separately stated. In actions l
to foreclose mortgages the court shall--have power to adjudge and
direct the payment, by the mortgagor, of any. residue of they mutt.
gage debt that may remain unsatisfied after a saleof the mortgaged
premises, in cases in which the mortgagor shall he personally liable
for the debt secured by such mortgage; and if the mortgage, debt be
secured by the covenant or obligation of any._person.other than the
mortgagor, the plaintifff may make such person a party. to the action,
and the court may adjpdge payment of the residue of-‘such debt. remaining unsatisfied after a sale of the mortgagedpremises against
auch~,other person, and‘ may enforce judgment as in other cases. .

Sec.- 121. Allegation-mot‘ denied, when to be deemed (me. Every

',,m.eria1?‘allegatiQn.of thiercomplaint, not controverted by the. answer,

.as prescribed in section 102, and every material allegation-of new
t matter in the answer, constituting a counterclaim, not controverted

:by the reply, as prescribed in section 106, shall, for purposes of the
action be taken -as true. But the allegation of new matter -in the
answer, not relating to a counterclaim, or of new-matter in a -reply,

is tovbe deemedcontroverted --bv the adverse party as «uponwaudirect

fdonial-or av0idance;~as thecasemay requlre.

. CHAPTER VI. .

"MISTAKES IN PLEADING,~".'AND AMENDMENTS.

’SncmeN. 122. ’Mat-erial variances; how provided for. \

123. Immaterial variances, how provided for.

124. What not to” be deemed a variance.

125. Amendments ‘of course and after demurrer.

126. Amendments by the court.

127. Court may give relief in case of mistake. .

128. Suing a party by a fictitious name.

1%. No error or" defect to be regarded'un1ess' it ‘affect

substantial rights.
E130. Supplemental complaint, answer and renly.

.Sec. 122. .MateriaZ var-iancc. No «variancevbet-ween ‘thealllcgasy

tion in a pleading and the, proof shall be- deemed material,~unless it
have actually misled the adverse party to'his prejudice, in maintain»
ing his action or defense, upon the -merits. Whenever it shall be
alleged that a, party has been misled, the fact shall be proved to the
satisfaction of the court,- and in what respect he has been misled ;
xndthereupon the court may order the pleading to be amended, up)n such terms as shall beajust.

Sec.' 123 1mmatcr.z'al~ vam'a7tee.. \V«i1ere the variance is not ma- ,

erial, as-provided inthe. last section,-‘the court may direct the fact
to be found according to the ‘evidence, or may order, an immediate

mendment without costs.

..Sec. 124. Failure of proof. Where, -however, the allegation of _,
he cause of action or defense to~»wl1icl1 the proof is directed is unu 1

moved, not in some particular or particulars only, but in its entire
cope and meaning, it shalltnot-be deemed a case of variance, within
be last two sections, but a failure of proof. ,

Sec. 125. Amendments-of course aml after allowance Qf demurrer.

my pleading may be once amended by the party of course, without '

costs, and without prejudice to the proceedings already had, at any
time within twenty days after it is served, or at any time before the
period for answering it expires ; or it can be so amended at any time
within, twenty days after theserviee. of the answer or demurrer ta
such pleading, unless it. be made to appear to the court that it was
done for the purposes of delay, and the plaintifff or defendant will
thereby lose the benefit of a term for which the cause is or may be
noticed; and if it appear to the court that such amendment was
made for such purpose, the same may be stricken out, and such
terms imposed as to the court may seem just. In such case a copy
of the amended._pleading must be served on theadvcrse party. Af-.
ter the decision ofa demurrer, either at a general or special term,‘
the court may, in its discretion, if it appear that the demurrer was.
interposed in good faith, allow the party to plead over upon such,
terms as may be just. If the demurrer be allowed for the cause
mentioned in the fifth subdivision of section 97, the court may, in its.
discretion, and upon suchtcrms as may be just, order the action to,
he divided into as many actions as may be necessary to the proper,
determination of the causes of action therein mentioned.

Sec. 126. Amendment by orclm The court may, before or after
judgment, in.furtherance.of justice, and on such terms as may be.
proper, amend any pleading, process or proceeding, by adding or
striking out the name of any party_;_ or by correcting a n'.istak.e.in.
the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; or by inserting other allegations material to the case; or, when the amendment
does not change substantially the claim or defense, by conforming
the pleading or proceeding to the facts proved.

Sec. 127. Relief in case of mistake. The °court may 1;‘ kewise, in.
its discretion, and upon such terms. as may be just, allow an_ answer
or reply to be made, or other act to be. done. after the time limited
by this act, or, by an order, enlargesueh. time; and may also, in-,_its
discretion, and upon such terms as may be just. at any time within
one year after notice thereof, relieve a party from a judgment, order
or other proceeding, taken against him through. his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect, and may supplyan omission
in any proceeding; and whenever anyprcceeding. taken by a party
fails to conform in any respect to the provisionsof this code, the
court may, in like manner,.and upon like. terms, permit an amends,
ment of such proceeding, so as to make it conformable thereto.

Sec. 128. rictitiousazcrme. When the plaintifff shallbeignorantof
the name of a defendant, such defendant may be designated in any,

pleadinghor proceeding, by any name; and when,,his true name shall,

be discovered‘, the pleading or proceeding may be amended accordingly. I

Sec. 129’. Errors or defectsto be disregarded. The court ‘sh-alli, in
every stage of action, disregard‘ any error or defect in the pleadings
or proceedings, which shall not affect the substantial rights ofithe adverse party ; and no judgment shall'be'1?ever.sed or affected by reason
of such error or defect.

Sec. 1302 Supplemental pleading.‘ The plaintifff and defendant,
respectively, may be allowed, on‘ motion, to make a supplemental
complaint, answer, or reply, alleging facts material to the case, occurring after the former complaint, answer, or reply, or of which the
party was ignorant when his former pleading was made.

TITLE VII.

OF THE PROVISIONAL REMEDIES IN CIVIL AC1'IONS.~

CHAPTER I. Arrest and bail.
II.»(}laim-‘and delivery of personal property. '
III. Injurietion.
IV. Attachment.
V-. Provisional remedies.

CHAPTER I’.

ARRES1“ AND BAIL.»

r SECTION 131. No personto be arrested in c'rvil'a’clion,,except‘ as"
prescribed.
132. Arrest in civil actions, in what cases.
133. Urder for arrest, by whom“-to be made.
134. Affidavit to obtain‘ order for arrest. To ‘what ac?
tions this chapter appl'ies~.
135. Security by plaintifff-‘before’ obtaining ordferfor av’, rest. ,
136. Order for arrest, when it may be made, and its
form.
137. Original affidavit and order to be delivered to sheriff.
and copy to be delivered to defendant.
138. Arrest, how made.

Bection 139. Defendant to be discharged on giving bail or making a deposit.

140. Bail, how given.

141. Surrender of defendant.

142. The like.

143. Bail, how proceeded against.

144. Bail, how exonerated.
145. Delivery of undertaking of bail to plaintiff, and its
, acceptance or reiection by him.
146. Notice of justification. New bail.
147. Qualification of bail,
148. Justification of bail.
149. Allowance of bail.
150. Deposit in lieu of bail.
3151. Payment of deposit into court.
.9152. Substituting bail for deposit.
’&53. Deposit, how disposed of after judgment in tlwaction.
154. Sheriff, when liable as bail. .
155. Proceedings on judgment against sheriff.
150. «Bail liable to sheriff. 1
157. Vacating order of arrest or reducing bail.

158. Aflidavits on motion to vacate order of arrestor reduce
bail.

3ec,. 131. No person to be arrested, except as prescribed.
No person shall be arrested in a civil action, except as prescribed by this act; but this provision shall not apply toeprou
ceedings for contempt.

Sec. 182. In what cases. T‘he‘—defendant may be arrested,
as hereinafter prescribed, in the following cases:

‘.1. In an action for t‘he,.,reciovery of damages, on a cause of
action not arising out of contract, where the defendant is not
a resident of tbe*’=.[‘erritory, or is about to remove therefrom,
or where the action is for an injury to person or character, or
for injuring, or forgvrongfully taking, detaining or converting
property ,;

2. In an action for a fine or penalty, or on a promise to
,-marry, or-for money received, or for property embezzled or
fraudulently misapplied, by a public oliiccr, or by an attorney.
solicitor or counselor, or by an officer or agent of a corpora.
tion or, banking association, in the course of his employment
as such, or by any factor, agent, broker or other person in a
.fid1,1_ciary capacity, or for any.misco_ndu.ct or neglect in ojicp,

«or in -a. professional employment’;

"3."‘~In an action to recover the possession of personal property unjustly detained, Where the property or any part thereof
=has'-‘been concealed, removed or disposed of, so that itcannot
be’*found or taken by the sheriff, and with the intent that it
should not be found or taken, or with the intent to deprive
theeplaintifff of the benefit thereelf. ‘

‘*4. Where the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in contracting the debt, or incurring the obligation forwhieh the
.~ action is brought, orin concealing or disposing of the property
—*7for'the taking, detention or conversioniof which the action is
brought, or when the action is brought to recover damages -for
fraud or deceit ; ‘ ~
5. When the'defen‘&ant has removed or disposed of his
property, or is about to do so, with the intent to defraud his
creditors. But-‘no female shall be arrested in any action, except for a Wlllf-iu‘l injury to person, character or property.

Sec.;,133.~* Order for arrest, by whom made. An order for
the arrest of the:de”fendant must be obtained from a judge of
the court inwhich the action is brought. ‘

Sec. 134. Afidavit to obtain order. To what ac‘t2'onst72.z's
chapter applies. The order may be made where it shall appear to the judge, by the affidavit of the plaintifff or of any‘

other person, that a suliicient cause of action exists, and that
the case is one of those mentioned in section 132. The provisions of this chaptershall apply to all actions included within
thegprovisions of section 132, and in which judgment shall not
have -been obtained.

See. 135. Security by plaintzf hefore orderof arrest. Be-‘

fore making the order, the judge shall require a written undertaking on the part of the plaintiff, with or without sureties,
to the (fleet that ifthe defendant recover judgment, the plaintifff will pay all costs that may be awardedyto the defendant,
and all damages which he may sustain by reason of the arrest,

not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which shall
be at least one hundred dollars. If the undertaking-‘be executed by the plaintifff, without sureties, he shall annex thereto-an
atiiclavit that he-is a. resident and householder or efreeholder
.av.ithin the Territory, and worvth-double. the sum specified in the

undertaking, over all his debts and liabilities, and exclusive of
all property exempt from execution by the laws of this Territory.

See. 136. Order, when made, and its form. The order
may be made to accompany the summons, or at any time af~
terwards before judgment. It shall require the sheriff of the
county where the defendant may be found, forthwith to arrest
him andhold him to bail in a specified sum, and return the
order, at a place and time therein mentioned, to the plaintifff
or attorney, by whom it shall be subscribed or indorsed. But
saiil order of arrest shall be of no avail, and shall be vacated‘
or set aside on motion, unless the same is served upon the
defendant, as provided by law, before the docketing of any
judgment in the action ;_and3 the defendant shall have twenty
days, after the service of the order of arrest, inewhich to answer the complaint in the action, and to move to vacate the
order of arrest, or to reduce the amount of bail.

Sec. 137. Ajidavzt and order to be de'z'vered to slzerzf‘. and
copy to defendant’: The affidavit and order of arrest shall be
delivered to the sheriff, who upon arresting the defendant, shall
deliver to him a copy thereof.

Sec. 1338. Arrest, How made. The shcriifshallcxecute the
order by arresting the defendant, and llteeping him in custody‘
until discharged by law, and may call the power of the county‘
to his aid in the execution of the arrest, as in case of process.

See. 139. Defendant to be discharged‘ on bail or depositi
The defendant, at any time before execution, shall be diseharged from the arrest, either upon giving bail or upon de-positing the amount mentioned in the order of arrest, as provi-~
(led in this chapter.

Sec. 140.. Bail, ltowgiven-. The defendant may give bail,.
by causing a written undertaking to be executed by two or
more sufficient bail, stating their places of residence and occur

pations, to the effect that the defendant shall at all times ren.-der himself amenable to the process of the court during the

pendency of the action, and to such as may be issued to enforce’
the judgment therein, or if he be arrested for the cause men-a
tsioncdin the third subdivision of section 132, an undertaking;
te.the same effect as that provided-.by section.1w64.-.

Sec. 141. Surrender of defendant. At any time before a
failure to comply with the undertaking the bail may surrender
the defendant in their exoneration, or he may surrender himself to the sheriff of the county where he was arrested, in the
following manner:;

1. A certified copy of the undertaking of the bail; shall be
delivered to the sheriff, who shall detain the defendant in his
custody thereon, as upon an order of arrest, and shall-by a. certificate in writing, acknowledge the surrender ;

2. Upon the production of a copy of the undertaking and
sherilT’s certificate, a judge of the court may, upon a. notice to
the plaintifff of eight days, with a copy of the certificate, order
that the bail be exonerated; and on tiling the order and the

papers used on said application, they shall be exonerated accordingly. But this sectionshall not apply to an arrest for

cause mentioned in subdivision 3 of sect.ion 132, so as to discharge the hail from an undertaking given to the effect provided by-sectibn 164.

Sec. 142. Surrender of defendant. For the purpose ofsurrendering the defendant, the bail; at any time or place, before
they are finally charged may themselves arrest him, or by a.
written authority, indorsed on a certified copy of the undertaking, may empower any person of suitable age and discretion to do so.

See. 143. Bail, how proceeded against. In case of failure
to comply with the undertaking, the bail may he proceeded
against, by action only.

Sec. 144. Bail how exonerated. The bail may be exonerated, either by the death of the defendant, or his imprisonment
ina State or. Territorial prison, or by his legal discharge from
the obligation to render himself amenable to the process, or by
his surrender to the sheriff of the countv where he was arrested,

- in execution thereof, Within twenty days after the commencement of the action against the bail, or within such further time
as may be granted by the court.

See. 145. Delivery of undertakiozgito '_7)laz'ntz:f§ and its acceptance or rejection by hz'm._ Within the time limited for that
purpose, the sheriffshall deliver the order of arrest to the plaintihj, or attorney by whom it is subscribed, with his return in-.-[dorsed, and a certified copy of the undertaking of the bail.
The plaintifff, within ten days thereafter, may serve ~upon_the
sheriff a notice-that he does not accept the bail, or he shall be
deemed to have accepted it, andthe sheriff shall be exonerated

from liability.

Sec. 146. Notice of justification. New bail. On the re~
ceipt of such notice, the sheriff or defendant may, within ten
days thereafter,‘-give to the plaintifff, or atto.rney by whomithe
order of arrest is subscribed, notice of the justification of the

same or other bail (specifying the place of residence and occupation of the latter) before a judge of the court, at a specified time
and "place ; the time to be not less than live nor more than ten
days thereafter. In case other bail be given, there shall be a
new undertaking. in the form prescribed in section'14 0.

r Sec. 147. Quah'ficatz'ons of bail. The qualifications of bail

must be as follows :
1. Each of them must be a "resident and householder or free~

holder, within the Territory.

2. They must each be Worth the amount specified in the order of arrest, exclusive of property exempt from execution ; but
the judge, or a justice of the peace, on justification, may allow
more than two bail to justify severally in amounts less than that
expressed in the order, if the Whole justification be equivalent

to that of two sufficient bail.

Sec. 148. Justzg/ication of bail. For the purpose of justification, each of the bail shall attend before the judge, or a justice
of the peace, at the time and place mentioned in the notice,
and may be examined on oath on the part of the plaintifff
touching his suiiiciency, in such manner as the judge or"justice
of the peace, in his discretion, may think proper. The examination shall he reduced to Writing and subscribed by the’ bail

if required by the plaintifff.
Sec. 149. Allowance of bail. If the judge or justice of the

peace find the bail sufficient, he shall annex the examination to

theundertaking,.indorse his allowance thereon, and cause them
to be filed-with the clerk; and the sheriff shall thereuponbe

exonerated from liability.
Sec. .150. Deposit with tlze sizemji“. The defendant may, at

the time of his arrest, instead-«of giving--bail, deposit with the
sheriff the amount meutionedein the-order. The sheriff shall

thereupon give-the d'efendant~- a~eerti'lieate of the deposit, and

the defendant shall be discharged’ out of custody.

Sec. 1512' Pctyinent of d‘oposz't into court. The sheriff shall‘,
within four days after the deposit, pay the same into court, and
shal1‘take from the odicer receiving the same two certificates of

such payment, the one of which he shall deliver to the plaintifff‘
andthe other'to the defendant. For any default in making‘such payment the same proceedings may be had on the official
bon-d’of the sheriff to collect the sum-deposited as in other
eases of delinquency.

Sec. 152. Substituting Zia-il for deposit." If money be deposited, as provided in the last two sections, bail may be given
and justified upon notice, as prescribed in section 146, any time
before judgment ; thereupon the judge before whom the justilia
cation is bad, shall direct in the order of allowance, that the
money deposited be refunded bythe sheriff to the defenda.nt,.
and it shall he refu.nded*aeco-rdlngly.

Sec. 153. Deposit, how disposed of. Where money shall‘
have been so-deposited‘, if it remain ondeposit at the time of
an order or judgment for the payment of money to the plaintifff,
the clerk sha—ll,(under the direction of the court, apply the
same in s_ati_sfaction thereof, and after satisfying the judgment,
shall refund the surplus, if any, to the defendant. Ifithe judgment be in favor of the defendant, the clerk shall refund to him
the whole sum deposited and remaining unapplied.

Sec. 154._Sl2erzf, when-liable as bail. If,:.aft_er being arrested,when thereis ajail to which the defendant may be committed

the defendant escape or berescued, or bail be -not given or justified, or a deposit be not made-instead thereof, the sheriff shall‘
himself be liableas bail. But he may discharge himself from
such liability, .by the-giving and justification of bail, as provided in sections 146,147, 148, and 149, at anytime before process against the person of the defendant, to enforce an order ore
judgment in the action.

See; 155. P':mcoedz'ngs.on—«»jud’gmen‘t against-sslzerzjfk. Illa
jpdgment be recovered against the sheriff, upon his liabiiityas

diail, and an execution thereon he returned unsatisfied, in whole
or in part, the same proceedings may be had on the otlicial bond
of the sheriti‘, to~cn1leot the deficiency, as in other cases of de~
linquency.

Sec. 156. Bail l2'a5le to sheraff. The bail taken upon the
arrest shall, unless theyjustify, or other bail be given or justified, be liable to the slicriil by action for damages, which he
may sustain by reason of such omission.

Sec. 157. Vacating order of arrest. or reducing bail. A
defendant arrested may, at any time before judgment, apply,

on motion, to vacate the order of arrest, or to reduce the
amount of bail. '

Sec. 158. Affidavits on motion. If the motion be made
upon affidavits on the part of the defendant, but not otherwise,
the plaintifff may oppose the same by affidavits, or other proofs,
in addition to those on which the order of arrest was made.

CHAPTER I1.

CLAIM AND DELIVERY OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.

SECTION 159. Claim and delivery of personal property.

160. Affidavit and its requisites.
161. Requisition to sheriff to take and deliver property.
162. Security by plaintifff.
163. Exception to sureties.
164. Defendant, when entitled to re delivery.
165. Justification of (ief'em.lant’s sureties.
166. Qualification and justification of sureties.

I 167. Property. how taken when concealed in building

or enclosure.

168. Property, how kept.
169. Claim of property bv third person.
170. Notice and attidavitv, when and where to be filed.

Sec. 159. Delivery of personal property. The plaintifff, in
an action to recover the possession of personal property, may,
at the time of issuing the summons, or at any time before answer, claim the immediate delivery of such property, as provided in this chapter.

Sec. 160. A jidavit and its requisites. Where asdelivery is :

claimed, an affidavit must be made by the plaintifff, er‘by some
one in his behalf, showing,

1, That the plaintifff is the owner of the property claimed
(particularly desersibing it), or is lawfuifly entitled to the pos~
session thereof, by virtue of a special property therein, the facts
in respect to which shall be set forth ;

2, That the property is wrongfully detained by the "defendant ; _ _

3, The alleged cause of the detention thereof, according to
his best knowledge, information, a.nd belief;

4, That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment,
or fine, pursuant to a statute; or seized under an execution or
attachment against the property of the plaintifff; or, if so seized, that it is, by statute, exempt from such seizure; and

5, The actual value of the property.

See. 161. Requisition to elzerrf to take and deliver the
preperty. The plaintifff may, thereupon, by an indorsement in
writing upon the affidavit, require the sheriff of the county where
the property claimed may be, to take the same trom the defendant and deliver it to the plaintifff.

Sec. 162. Security by plairitzf. Upon the receipt of the
aiiidavit and notice, with a written undertaking executed by
one or more sufficient sureties, approved by the sheriff. to the
eifect that they are bound in double the value of the property,
as stated in the affidavit for the prosecution of the action, for
the return of the property to the defendant, if return thereof
be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as may,
for any cause, he recovered against the plaintiii", the sheriff
shall forthwith take the property described in the affidavit, if
it be in the possession of the defendant or his agent, and retain
it in his custody. He shall also, without delay, serve on the
defendant a copy of the affidavit, notice, and undertaking, by
delivering the same to him personally, if he can be found, or
to his agent, from whose possession the property is taken; or,
if neither can be found, by leaving them at the usual place of
abode of either, with some person of suitable age and. discretion.

Sec. 163. Exception to sureties. The defendant may,

within three days after the service of a copy of the aliidavit
and undertaking, give notice to the sheriff that he accepts to
the sulliciency of the suretics. If he fail to do so, he shall be
deemed to have waived all objection to them. Whemthe defendant excepts, the sureties shall justify on notice in like
manner as upon bail on arrest. And the sheriff shall be responsible for the sulliciency of the sureties, until the objection
to them is either waived as above provided,-or until they shall
justify, or new sureties shall be substituted andjustify. If
the defendant except to the sureties, he cannot reclaim the
property, as provided in the next section.

See. 164’. ‘Defendant, when entitlecl to re-clelzbery. At’ any
time before the delivery of the property to the plaintifff’, the

defendant may, if he do not except’ to the sureties of the
plaintifff, require the return thereof, upon giving to the sherid
a written undertaking, executed by two or more suhicient

sureties, to the effect that they are bound in double -'the‘ value <

of the property, as stated in the aliidavit of the plaintifff, for
the delivery thereof to the plaintifff, if such delivery be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as may, for
any cause, be recovered against the defendant. lfa. return of
the property be not so required, within three days after the
taking and service of notice to the defendant, it shall be delivered to the plaintifff, except as provided in section 169. Sec. 165; Justification of cZefemIant’s suretics. The de.
fendant’s sureties, upon a notice to the plaintifff of not less
than two nor more than six days, shall justify before a judge
or justice of the peace, in the same manner as upon bail, on

arrest; upon such justification, the sheriff shall deliver the
property to the defendant. The sheriff shall be responsible for

the defendant’s sureties, until they justify, or until justiflcg.

tion iseompleted or expressly waived, and may retain the
property-»unti1 that time; but if they, or others in their place’.

fail to justify at the time and place appointed, he shall deliver
the property to the:plaintifff. a

See. 166. Qualifications and,7'us't2:fZcat2'on of suretz’es.' _ The“

qualifications of sureties, and their justification, shallbe asare-'

prescribed by section 147 and 148 in respect to bail upon an
order of arrest. ‘

Sec. 16?‘. Property, Irate taken when concealed--in building
or enclosure. If the property, or any part thereof, be concealed in a building or enclosure, the sheriff shall publicly demand its delivery. If it be not delivered, he shall cause the
building or inclosuro to be broken open, and take the property
into his possession; and if necessary, he may call to his aid
the power of his county.

Sec. 168. Property, how kept. When the sheriff shall have
taken property, as in this chapter provided, he shall keep it in
a-:seeure place, and deliver it to the party entitled thereto, upon
receiving his lawful fees for taking, and his necessary._ex.penses
for keeping, the same. ’

Sec. 169.‘ Oiaiin of property by third person. If the property taken be- claimed by any other person than the defendant

or his agent, and such person shall make aliidavit of his title.

thereto and right to the possession thereof, statingthe grounds
of such right and title, and serve the same upon the sheriff, the
sheriff shall not be bound to keep the property, ordeliver it to
the plaintifff, unless the plaintifff, on demand of himor his agent,
shall indemnify the sheriff against such claim, by an undertaking, executed by two sumcient sureties, accompanied by the adio
davits, that they are each: worth double‘ the value of the property as speciiiedrin the-. sdidavit of the plaintifff exclusive of
property exempt from execution and freehotdersand'l1ouseholdcrs of the county. Andvno claim to such property, by any
other persorr than the de’f.’endant or his agent, shall be valid
against the sheriff, unless made as aforesaid; and notwithstanding such claim, when so made, he may retain the property a

reasonable time to demand» such indemnity.

Sec. 170; Notice andittfidavit, when and where to be filed.
The sheriff shall filelthe notice and affidavit, with his proceeds
ings thereon, with the clerk of the court in which the action is

pending, within twenty days after, taking the property mens
tioned therein.

CHAPTER III.

INJUNCTION.

Elation 171. Writ or injunction abolished, and order substituted
172. Temporary injunction, in what cases granted.
173. At what time it may be granted. Cony amdavil
to be served.
174. Injunction after answer.
175. Security upon injunction. Damages how ascertained.
176. Order to show cause why injunction should not be »

_gra_n_ted.
177. Security upon injunction to suspend business of
corporation. '
178. Motion to vacate or modify injunction.
179. Aiiidavits on ‘motion.

Sec. 171. Injunction by _order. The writ of injunction, as
aprovisional remedy, is abolished, and an injunction by order
is substituted therefore. The order may be made by the court
in which the action is brought, or by a judge thereof in the
cases provided in the next section, and, when made by a judge,
may be enforced as the order of the court.

Sec. 172. Injunction in what cases.

1, Where it shall appear by the complaint that the plaintifff
is entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief, or any part
thereof, consists in restraining the commission or continuance
of some act the commission or continuance of which, during the
litigation, would produce injury to the plaintifff; or

2, When, during the litigation, it shall appear that the den
fendant is doing, or threatens, or is about to do, or procuring
or su&'ering some set to be done in violation of the plaintifff’:
rights, respecting the subject of the action, and tending to
render the judgment ineffectual, a temporary injunction \
may be granted to restrain such act.

3, And where, during the pendency of an action, it shall appear by aiiidavit that the defendant threatens, or is about to remore or dispose of his property, with intent to defraud his
creditors, a temporary injunction may be granted to restrain

such removal or disposition.

Sec. 173. At what time it -may be granted. Copy aficlavit ;
to be served. The injunction may be granted at the time of.‘
commencing the action, or at any time afterwards, before judgment, upon its appearing satisfactory to the court or judge, by
the ailirlavit of theplaintifff, er of any other person, that sufiicient grounds exist therefore. A copy of the aiiidavit must be
served with the injunction.

I

Sec. 174. Injunction after answer. An injunction. shall;
not be allowed after the defendant shall have answered, unless i
upon notice, or upon an order to show cause; but in such case
the defendant may be restrained until the decision of the court
orjudge granting or refusing the injunction.

Sec. 175. Security upon injunction Damages. Where no
provision is made by statute as to security upon an injunction,
the court or judge shall require a. written undertaking on the
part of the plaintifff, with or without sureties, to the effect that
the plaintifff will pay to the party enjoined such damages, not
exceeding an amount to be specified, as he may sustain by reason of the injunction, if the court shall ‘finally decide that the
plaintifff was not entitled thereto. The damages may be ascertained by a reference, or otherwise, '-as the court shall direct.

Sec. 176. Order to show cause. Restraint in meantime.
If the court or judge deem it proper that the defendant, or any
of several defendants, should be heard. before granting the injunction, an order may be made requiring cause to be shown,
at a specified time and place, why the injunction should not be
granted; and the defendant may, in the meantime, be retained.

Sec. 177. Security upon injunction to suspend Business of
corporation. An injunction to suspend the general and ordinary
business of a corporation shall not be granted except by the
court or ajudgc thereof. Nor shallit be granted without due
notice of the application therefore, to the proper odicers of the
corporation, except Where the people of this Territory are a
party to the proceeding, and except in proceedings to enforce
the liability of stockholders in corporations and associations for
banking. purposes, as such proceedings are or shall be provided
by law, unless the plaintifff shall give a written undertaking, executed by two suiiicient suretiés, to be approved by the court

or judge, to the effect that the plaintifff willpay all damages,
not exceeding the sum to be mentioned in the undertaking,
which such corporation may sustain by reason of the injunction,
if the court shall finally decide that the plaintiiilwas not enti«

tledithereto. '.i‘.ho damages mgty be ascertained by a reference
or otherwise, as the court shall direct.

See. 178. Zllotioiz, to vacate or. nzodijiy 2'njzmcta'9n.. If. the
injunction be granted by ajudge of the court, without notice,.
the defendant, at any time before the trial, may apply, upon
notice, to a judge of the court in which the action is brought,
to vacate or modify the same. The application may be made

upon complaint and the affidavits on which the injunction was».

granted, or upon affidavits on«t-he part of the defendant, with
or without the answer. '

Sec. I79. A[7Zdavz'z‘.s on motaboz. Ifthe application be made
upon aiiidavits on the part of the defendant, but not otherwise,
the plaintifff may oppose the same by agdavit or other proofs,
in addition to those on which the injunction \ras.,granted.‘;

CIIAP TER IV, 

ATTACIIM ENT.. _

Section 180. Property of foreign corporations, and ‘of .non-resiar
dent or abseonding or concealed defendants, mags,
be attached. 

181. Attachment-,-~by whom granted.
182. In what cases. attachment may be issued. , Atlida-;
vits to be filed»?
a 183. Security on obtaining attachment. 184. Attachment, to whom directed, and, ,.what to re»
_ quire. A
. 185. Mode of proceedingin executing attachrnen t.
' 186. Proeeedingsin ease of perishable property or vessels.
‘I87. Interest in corporations or associations liable to at’ taohment. .
» 188. Attachment, how executed on property ineapable of manuatdelivery.
189. Certifieateof defendantfs interest... to be fumishedalt
by corporations. '
190.. "J..u dgmen t, how . satisfied.»Sncnbrt 191. When action -to recover notes, &c., of. defendant
may be prosecuted by the plaintifff in ‘the action in
which the attachment issued) ' ' 1

193. Bond to sheriff on attachment, liowdisposed of on
judgment for'de~fendant. ,

193. Discharge of attachment. and return of property or its proceeds to de£:.endant,ion his appearance in the,
action. W

i 194. Undertiaking on the part of the defendant. _

195. When sheriff toreturn attachmentwith his proceed. ings thereon. ‘ '
196. ‘Sheriff's fees. _

‘Sec. 180. Property of no'7t~resz'dcnts, 5%., may be attached.
{In an action arising pn contract for the recovery ‘of money
only, or in an action for the wrongful conversion of personal

‘property, against a. corporation created by or under the laws
' of any other Territory, State, government or ‘country, or
‘against a. defendant‘-who is not a resident of this‘Territ'ory or
against a defendant. who has absconded or concealed himself,
or whenever any person or corporation is about to remove any
‘ of his or-its property from this Territory, or has assigned, dis’-posed of, secretcd,or is about to assign, dispose of or secrete
-‘any of his or its property with intent‘ to defraud creditors, as
-hereinafter mentioned, the plaintifff, at the timeof issuing the
‘summons, or any time afterwards, may have the property of
‘such defendant or corporation attached, in the manner hereinafter prescribed, as a securit-yifor the satisfactirin of such judgmenteasithe plaintifff may recover; and for the purposes of this
section an action shall be deemed “commenced when the summons‘is issued; " 1 t '

Provided however, That personal service of such summons

eshall be made, or publication thereof commenced within thirty

«days.Sec.'1i181.i ‘Warrant’, by toihoml gra2tte'd. A warrant of at‘ 7'tachment must be obtained from the clerk of the court in‘ which

the action is brought.

Sec. 182. In what cases evarrant may-he issued. 'A17‘Zdavz'ts
#60’ be filed. '._I‘he warrant may be iss_ued.whenever it shall apepear by ailiciavit that a causeof action -exists against such devfen-dant, "specifying the amount of the‘-claim and the grounds

thereof, and that the defendant is either a foreign corporation,
or not a resident of this Territory, or has departed therefrom

with intent to defraud his creditors. or to avoid the service of
a summons, or keep himself concealed therein with the like intent, or that such corporation or person has removed, or isabeut to remove any of his or its property from this Territory

with intent to defraud his or its creditorsbor has assigned, disposed of or secreted, or is about to assign, dispose of, or secrete any of his property, with the like intent, whether such defendant be a resident of this Territory. or not.

Sec. 183. Security on, obtaining warrant. Before issuing
the warrant, the clerk_shal.l require a written undertaking on
part of the plaintiffiwith sufficient surefy, to the effect that if
the defendant recover judgment, or the attachment be set
aside by the order of the court, the plaintifff will pay all costs
thatmay be awardedto the defendant, and all damages: which
he may sustain by reason of the attachment, not exceeding the

sum specified _in the undertaking, which shallbe at least two
hundred and fifty dollars.

Sec. 184. Warrant, to wfzom dt're.cted, and whatto require.
The warrant shall be directed to the sheriff of anycounty in
which property of ' such.defendant may he, and shall require
him to attach and safely keep all the pr:operty,of such defendant within his. county, or so much thereof asmay be sufficient to
satisfy the plainti!l"s demand, together with costs and expenses,
the amount of which must be stated in conformity with the
complaint, together with costs andexpenses. Several warrants may be issued at the same time to the sherifs of dijferent
counties.

Sec. 185. Mode of proceeding in executing warrant. The
sherid to whom such warrant of attachmentjs directed and delivered, shall proceed thereon in all respects in the manner required of him bylaw in ca.se of attachmentsiagainst absent
debtors; shall make and return an inventory, and shall keep the.
property seized by him, _or the proceeds of such as shall have
been sold, to answer any judgment which may be ohtained in
‘such’ action; and shall, subject to the direction of the court or
judge. collect and receive into his possession all debts, credits,

aud'e&‘ects of-xthe, defendant. '.P_h'e sheriff, may also take such,

legal proceedings, either in his own name or in the name of such
defendant, as may lie necessary for that purpose, and discontinue the sarsfe at such times and on such terms as the court or
judge mafdirect".

Sec. 186. Proceedings in case of perishable property or ves- ‘
eels’. If any property so seized shall be perishable, or if any 1

part of it be claimed by any other person than such defendant,
or ifiany part ofxiit consist of ‘a. vessel, or of any share or interest therein, the same proceedings shall be had in all respects
as are provided bylaw upon attachments against absent debtors.

Sec. 187. Interest in corporations or associations liable to
attachment. The rights’ or shares which such defendant may
have in the stock of any association or corporation, together
\vit&"the interests and profits thereon, and all other property
in this Territory of such defendant, shalllbe liable to be attachs
ed and levied upon, and sold to satisfy the judgment and execution.

Sec. 188. Altachment, how executed on property incapable
ofmanual delivery. The execution of the attachment upon
anydebts or other property incapable of manual‘ delivery to
the sheriff', shall he made by leaving a certified copy of the
warrant of attachment with the president or other head of the
association or corporation, or the secretary, cashier or managing agent thereof, or with the debtor or individual holding
such property, tfith a notice showing the property levied on, or
if the property attilached be unoe'cu~p‘ied real property, by posting thereon a certified copy of such warrant. Sec. 189. C'ertzjicr.zte of defe9tdan€i’s-interest to be furnished
by corporations. Vlfhenever the sheriff -shall, with a. warrant
of attuichment, or execution against~ the defendant, apply to
such oliicer, debtor, or individueh ferthe purpose of attaching,
or levying upon such property,~such officer, debtor, or individual shall furnish him with a certificate under his hand, designating the number of rights or shares of the defendant in the
stock of such association or corporation, with any dividend or
any encumbrance thereon, or the amount and description of the
property held by such association, corporation or individual,

for the bcneht of ordebt owing to theulefendant. If such 0&cer, debtor, or individual refuse to do so, he may be required
by the court or judge to attend before him, and be examined

on oath, concerning the same, and obedience to such order may
be enforced by attachment. '

Sec. 190. Jzcdgnzcnt, 7202.7 sa:'is]’ied. In case judgment be
entered for the plaintifff in such action, the sheriff shall satisfy

the same out of the property attached by him, if it shall be
s’uEcient for that purpose:

1. By paying over to such plaintifff the proceeds of all sales
of perishable property, and of any vessel, or share or interest
in any vessel sold by him, or of any debts or credits collected

by him, or so much as shall be necessary to satisfy such judgment;

2. If any balance remain -due, and an execution shall have
been issued on such judgtnent, he shall proceed to sell, under
such execution, so much of the attached property, real or per.sonal, except asprovided in subdivision four of this section, as
may be necessary to satisfy thekbalance, if enough for that

' purpose shall remain in his hands; and in case of the sale of

any ‘rights or shares in the stock of a corporationor association,
thesheriff shall execute to the purchaser a. certificate of sale
thereof, and the purchaser shallthereupon have all the rights
and privileges in respect thereto which were bad by such de' fendant;

3. Ifany of the attached property belonging to the defendant shall .have,passed out of the hands of the sheriff without
having been sold or converted into money, such sheriff shall
repossess himself of the same, and for that purpose shall have
all the authority which the had to seize the same under the
attachment; and any person’ who shall willfully conceal or
withhold such .property from the sheriff, shall be liable to
double damages, at the suit of the party injured;

4. Until the ‘judgment against the defendant shall be paid,
the sheriff may proceed to collect the notes and other evidence:
of debts that may have been seized or attached under the war= rant of attachment, and to prosecute any bond’ he may have

taken" in the course of such proceedings, and apply the proceeds thereof to the payrrlent of the judgment.~ At the expi"-ration of six months from the tdocketing of theyjudgment, the

court shall have power upon the petition ofthe plaintifff‘, ac.~ companied by an ailldavit setting forth fully all the proceedings

which have been had by the sheriff since the service of the at»:

.t.acliment, the property attached, and the disposition thereof,
: and also the afliclavit of the sheriff that he has used diligence

and endeavored to collect the evidences of debt in his hands so
attached, and that there remains uncollected of. the same any
part or portion thereof, to order the sheriff to sell the same,
upon such terms -and in such manner as shall be deemed proper.
Notice of such application shall" be given to the defendant or

. his attorney, if the defendant shall have appeared ‘in the acction. In -case the summons has not'*been personally served on

the defendant, the court‘ shall make such -rule or order, as to
the service of notice and the time ofservice, as shall be deemed
just. When the judgment and all costs of the proceedings
shall have-been paid, the sheriff, upon reasonable demand,
shall deliver over to the defendant the residue of the attached
property, or the proceeds thereof.

Sec. 191. When action to recover-notes, :j’*c., of defendant
«may be prosecuted by plaintrf in the action in which the at-ttachment issued. The actions herein authorized to be brought

by the sheriff may be prosecuted by the_.e_.plaintill‘, or under his
direction, upon the delivery by him to the sheriff of an undertaking executed by two suiiicient sureties, to the effect that the
plaintifff will indemnify the sheriff from all damages. costs, and
expenses on account thereof, not exceeding two hundred and
difty dollars in any one action. Such sureties shall, in all cases,
when required by. the sheriff, justify by making an aliidavit that
each is at householder, and worth double the amount of the
«penalty of theiboncl, _over and above all demands and liabilities,
and exclusive, of property exempt from execution.

Sec. 192. Bond t_0'87le1"l:#‘ an attachment, flzow disposed of ,
onjudgment for defendant. If the foreign corporation, or
absent or ‘absconding or concealed defendant, recover «judg~i-ment against the plaintifff in such action. any bond taken by
the sheriff, except such -as are mentioned in the last section,

.-all the proceeds of sales and monies collected by him, and all
-the property attached remaining in his hands, shall be délivern
,-ad by him; to the defendant, or. his agent, omrequest and the

warrant shall be discharged, and the property released therefrom.

See. 193. Discharge of attachment, and return of properly
or its‘ proceeds to defendant, on his appearance in action.
Whenever the defendant shall» have appeared in such action.
he may apply to the officer who issued the attachment, or to
the court,-for an order to discharge the same ;, and if the same
be granted, all the proceeds of sales and monies collected by
him, and all the property attached remaining in his hands,
shall be delivered or paid by him to the defendant or’ his agent
and released from the attachment. And where there is more
than one defendant, and several property of either of the defendants has been seized by virtue of the order of attachment,
the defendant whose several property has been seized may. appl‘y to the officer who issued the attachment, or the court~,~for

relief under this section.

See. 194. Undertaking on the part of the defendant’. Upon snch application, the defendant shall deliver to the court or
oilicer an undertaking executed by at least twosureties, who
are residents and freeholders or householders in this Territory,
approved by such court or oilicer, to the efect that such surea
tles will, on demand, pay to the plaintifff the amount ofjudg.

ment that may he recovered against the defendant in the action‘
not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which-‘
sliall beat‘ least double the amount claimed by the plaintifff inIi".s complaint. If it shall appear by affidavit that the property attachetl be less than the amount claimed ly the plaintid,
tlie court or officer issuing the attachment, may order the same
to be appraised’, and‘ the amount of the undertaking shall then
be double the amount so appraised: And-in all cases the defendant may move to discharge the attachment, as ,in»thve'case
of other provisional remedies. And where there is more than
one defendant, and several property of either of the defendant:
has been seized by virtue of the order of attachment, the defendant whose several property has been seized may deliver to

the court or oliicer an undertaking, in accordance with the pro-*
visions of this section, to the effect that he will, on demand,

pay, to the plaintid theamount of judgment that may b9 pg.

oovered..agginst such defentlaata And.all .the.pr.ovisions of’

tb.iss'scction applicable to such undertaking shall be applied
thereto.

Sec. 195. Wlten shertf to return warrant and proceedings
thereon. When the warrant shall be fully executed or discharged, the sheriff shall return the same with his proceedings
thereon, to the court in which the action was brought.

Sec. 196. She7'2:f's fees. The shcrill' shall. be entitled to
the same fees and compensation for services, and the same diahursemcnts under this title, as are now allowed by law for like
services and disbursements.

CHAPTER V.

PROVISIONAL REM EDIES-u

Sec. 197. Powers of court as.to-receivers, deposit of money,
to-., in court, and other provisional remedies». Judgment for
sum admitted due. A receiver may be appointed;

1. Before judgment, on the application of either party, when
he establishes an apparent right to property whlch is the sub: ject of the action, and which is in the possessioh of an adverse

party, and the property, or its rents and profits are in danger
of being lost or materially injured or pirnpairedgr. except in
cases where ‘judgment. upon failure to answer may be had
without application to the court;

2. Afterjudgtnent, to carry the judgment into effect;

3. After judgment; to dispose of the property according to
the judgment, or to preserve it during the pendency of an ape»
peel, or when an execution has been returned unsatisfied, and:
the judgment debtor refuse to apply his property in satisfaction of thejudgment;

4. In the cases provided in this Code, and by special statutes
"when a corporation has been dissolved, or is insolvent, or in imminent danger of insolvency, or has forfeited its corporate
rights; and in like cases, of the property within this Territory of foreign corporations. Receivers of the propertyguithin
this Territory, of foreign corporations, shall be allowed the

same commissiousasaa are allowed-by law to~the trustees of this;

-estates ofabsconding, concealed, and non-resident debtors.

5. In such other cases as are now provided by law, or may
be in accordance with the existing practice, except as otherwise
provided in this act. When it is admitted by the pleading
or examination ofa party, that he has in his possession or under
‘his control any money or other thing capable of delivery,
which, being the subject of the litigation, is held by lzim as
trustee for another party, or which belongs or is due to another
party, the court may order the same to be deposited in court,
or delivered to such party, with or without security, subjectito
the further direction of the court. Whenever, in the exercise
of its authority, a court shall have ordered the deposit, delivery or conveyance of money or other property, and the order
is disobeyed, the court, besides punishing the disobedience as for
contempt, may -make an order requiring the sherifl’ to take the
money or property, and deposit, deliver or convey it, in conformity with the direction of the court. When the answer of
"-the defendant expressly, or by not denying, admits part of the
..plaintiffl"s claim to be just, the-court, on motion, may order
-such defendant to satisfy that part of the claim, and may enforce the order-as it enforced a judgment or provisional remedy.

TITLE VIII.

OI!‘ THE TRIAL AND JUDGMENT IN CIVIL AUTIONQ.

CHAPTER I. Judgment -upon failure to answer, &c.

II. Issues and mode of the trial.

III. Trial hyjury.

IV. Trial by the court. '
V. Trial by referees. _

VI. The manners-of enteringjudgment.

CHAPTER .1.

JUDGMENT UPON FAILURE so answan, &c.

.Snc‘1'IoN. 198. Judgment defined. I
.199. Judgment on failure of defendant to answer, or
..for excess over couuteraclaim. ‘

Bection 200. Judgment on frivolous demurrer, answer or.»
reply. '

Sec. 198. JmIgnzen£'1z’q/inecl. A judgment is the final determination of the ri,«_:hts of the parties in the action.

See. 199. Jud_r/mcnt on failure of defendant to answer, or for excess over counter clctinz. Judgment may be had, if the defendant fail to answer the complaint, as follows:

1,. In any action arisin_9;;on contract for the recovery of money?

only, the plaintifff may file with the clerk proof’ of personal service
of the summons and complaint on one or more of the defendants, or
of the summons according to the provisions of section 83 and that
no answer has been received. The clerk shall thereupon enterjudgment for the amount mentioned in the summons,ago.inst the defendant
or defendants, against one or more of several deli:-nda.nts, in the cases
provided for in section 89. But if the complaint be not sworn to,and

such action is on an instrurnentfor the pa,yment'.:of money only, the’
clerk, on its production to him shall assess the amount due to -the.’
plaintifff thereon; and ,in other. cases shall ascertain the amount‘

which the plai.-ngtitf is entitled to recover in such action, from his examination, uuder oath, or othcr~proof', and enter the judgment T for
the amount so assessed or ascertained. In case the defendant give

notice of appearance in the.,aetion, he shall be entitled to five .day’s
notice of the time and place of'.such assessment. ‘

Vfhere the defendant, by his answer in any such action, shall not
deny the plaintifff's claim, but shall set up a counterclaim, amounting
to less than the plaintifffs claim,judgmcnt may be had by the plain"
tilf for the excess of said claim over the said countcrsclaim, in like

manner in any such action, upon the plaintifff’s,liling with the clerk .

of the court a statcmentadmitting such counterclaim, which state
ment shall be annexed to and be a part of thejudgment roll.

2, In other actions the plaintifff may, upon the like proof,.apply
to the court, after the expiration of the time for answering, for the
relief demanded in the complaint. If the taking of an account of
the proof of any fact be necessary to enable the court to give judgment, or to carry the judgment into effect, theoourt may.-atake the
account or hear the proof, or may, in its discretion; order as. reference
for that .purpose. And where the action-is» for. the recovery of
money only, or of speci£c"real:$tor personal property, with damages
for the withholding thereof, the court may order» thedamages to be
assessedfsby a jury, or, it‘ the examination of-‘. a. .-long account be involved, by.-a reference as above.provided.. Ifuthe defendant given

notice of appearance in the action before the_expiro.tion of the time
for answering, he shall be entitled to eight day's notice of the time
and place of application to the court for the relief demanded by the

complaint.

,3, In action where the service of the summons was by public»
tion, the plaintifff may, in like manner, apply for judgment, -and the
court must thereupon require proof to be made of the demand mentioned in the complaint; and if the defendant be not a resident of
the Territory, must require the plaintiff or his agent to be examined
-on oath respecting any payments that have been made to the plain.
tiff, or to any one for his use, on account of such demand, and may
render judgment for the amount which he is entitled to recover.
Before rendering judgment the court may, in its discretion, require
the plaintifff to cause to be filed satisfactory security, to abide the
order of the court, touching the restitution of any estate or effects
which may be directed by such judgment to be transferred or doliverod, or the restitution of any money that may be collected under or by virtue of such judgment, in case the defendant or his representatives shallapply and be admitted -to defend the action, and

shall succeed in such defense.

Sec. 200. Judgment on _/rt'v0.'ous demurrer. answer or reply.
If a demurrer, answer or reply be frivolous, the party prejudiced

thereby, upon a previous notice of five days. may apply to a judge
of the court either in or out of the court, for judgment thereon, and

judgment may be given accordingly,

CHAPTER II.

ISSUES, AND MODE OF TRIAL.

Stcrxox 201. The different kinds of issues.
202. Issue of law
203. Issue of fact
204. On issue of both law and fact, the issue of law to

be first tried
205. Trial defined
206. Issues, how tried
207. Issues triable by the court
208. Issues, where to be tried
209. Either party may give notice of trial. N etc of
issue
210. Order of disposing of issues on the calendar

CHAPTER 11.

Sec 201. The daferent kind of issues. Issues arise upon the
pleadings when a fact or conclusion of law is maintained by one

party and controrerted by the other. They are of two kinds :
1, ()_f law; and 2, Of fact.

,Sec. 202. Issueof law. An issue of law arises,
_1_, U pen a demurrer to the complaint, answer or reply, or to some
part thereof’.

Sec 203. Issue of,/act. Anissue of fact arises,

1, Upon a material allegation in the complaint controverted by the
answer, or

2, Upon new matter in-the answer controverted by the reply ; or

3, Upon new matter in the reply, except an issue of’ law is joined
thereon.

Sec. 204. On the issues of both law and fact, theissue of law to be
first ti-ierl -Issues both of law and of fact may arise upon duferent
parts of the pleadings in the same action. In such cases the issues
of law must be first tried, unless the court otherwise direct.

Sec. 205. ,Tr1'a.l defined. A trial is the judicial exam-inatien of
the issues ‘between the parties, whether they be issues of law or of
fact. ‘

Sec. 206. Issues how tried. An issue of law must be tried by
the court, unless it be referred, as provided, in section 222. An is~
sue effect, in an action for the recovery of money only, .or of specific
real or personal property, or for a divorce from the marriage contract
must-he tried by a jury, unless a jury trial be waived, as provided in
section 218, ora reference be ordered, as provided in section 222.

Sec. 207. Other issues to be tried by the court. Every other 1
issue is triable by the court, which, however, may order the whole '
issue, or any speciiic question of fact involved therein, to be tried by
a. jury, or may refer it, as provided in section 222.

Sec. 208. Issues, where to be t_rz'ed_. All issues of fact, triable by 1
a jury or by the court, must be tried before a singlejudge. Issues of '
fact must he tried at a regular term of the district court when the
trial is by jury, otherwise ata regular or special term, as the court
may, bv its rules, prescribe. Issues of law must be tried at a. regula

or special term of the district court.

Sec. 209. Either party may give notice of trial. Note of issue.

At any time after issue, and at least ten days before the court, either
party may give notice of trial. The party giving the notice shall
furnish the clerk, at least eight days before the court, with a note

no of the issue, containing the title of the action, the names of the attorneys, and the time when the last pleading; wa;:’scrvcd; and the '

clerk shall thereupon enter the cause upon the calendar‘, according
to the date of the issue.

Sec. 210. Ordtr of ¢I[:})osz.'ng of ‘1'sszu's on the «'alcncZu"'r; The is»

sues on the calendar shall be disposed of in the following order, un~
less, for the convenience of parties or the dispatch of business, the
court shall otherwise diree :

1. Issues of fact to be tried by a jury;

2. Issues of fact to be tried .°iJ§“jthe coiipt-‘;

O

o. Issues of law.

CHAPTER III.

TRIAL BY JURY.

Stc'r1or¢~2l1. Notice of~trial Separate trial»

212. Court to be furnished with a copy of the pleadings“2l3_. General and special verdicts (lclire'ed.~«

214. When jury may render either g-ftn'.‘;l':1l or special-~
verdict, and when the court may direct a. special fin‘-ding

215. On‘ special finding with a general verdict, the
former to control

216. Jury to assess defendant’s damages in certain
cases

. 217'. Entry of the ve':d‘iet.'-‘ Motionfor :1ew‘.~trial~'..

CHAPTER III.

‘lee. 211,. .Not£cc‘oftrz'aZ. Séparatc trial. Either party giving
the notice may bringthe issue to trial, and in the absence of the
adverse party, unless the court, for good cause, otherwise direct,may
proceed with his case, and take a dismissal of the complaint, or a
verdict orjudgmcnt, as the case may require.

A separate trial between a-«plaintifff and any of theseveral defendants may be allowed by the:eourt,.whenev.er, in itsopinion, justice
will thereby be promoted.

Sec. 212. Court to be furnished with copy of pleadings, (ho.
W~hen the issue shall be brought to trial by the plaintifff, he ‘shall
furnish the court with a copy of the summons and pleadings, with
the offer of the defendant, if any shall have been made. When the
issue shall be brought to trial by the defendant, and the plaintifff
shall neglect or refuse to furnish the court with a copy of the sums
anons and pleadings and the offer of the defendant, the same may
be furnished by the defendant.

Sec. 213. General and spccical verdicts defined. Ageneralverdict

s that by which the jury. pronounces generally upon all or any of

the issues, either in favor of the plaintifff or defendant. A special

‘verdict is that by which the jury find the facts only, leaving the
judgment to the court.

See. 214. W/Len jur3y=mag/a'cm'Ic*r cz'¢’her general or“ special verdict,
and whcncozzrt rrzay direct special jin.dz'22g. In an" action for the
recovery of specific property, if the property have not been delivered to the plaintifff, or the defendant byrhis answer claim a return
thereof, the jury shall assess the value of the property, if their

"verdict be in favor of the plaintifff, or if they find"in favor of the

defendant, and that he is entitled to a return thereof, and may
at the same time assess the (lamages, if any are claimed in the
complaint or answer, which the prevailing party has sustained by
reason of the detention or taking and Withholding such property. ~

ln every action for the recovery of money only, or specific real
property, the jury, in their discretion, may render a general or special verdict. In all other cases, the court may direct the jury to
find a special verdict in writing upon all or any of the issues, and in
all cases may instruct them, if they render a general verdict, to find
upon particular questions of fact, to be stated in writing, and may
direct a Written l.lfl£lI[lgl'.l101‘€OI1~a- Tl}-0'Sp0£ial verdict or finding shall
be filed with the clerk, and entered upon the minutes.

Sec. 215. 022. special fizzirling 2cL'z‘7L general verdict, farmer to control. \Vhcrc a special finding of facts shall be inconsistent with the
general verdict, the former shall control the latter, and the court shall
give judgment accordingly.

Sec. 215. Jury ‘to assess <le;z"en.(lant’s clamages in certain cases.
When a. verdict is found for the plaintifff in an action for the reeov~
cry of money, or for the defendant when a. set~oif for the recovery
of money is established beyond the amount of the plaintifff’s claim
as established, the jury must also assess the amount of the recovery.
They may also, under the direction of the court, assess the amount

of the recovery when the court give judgment for the plaintifff on
the answer. It’ a set-oE established at the trial, exceed the plaintifff's demand so established, judgment for the defendant must be
given for the CKCCSS; or if it appear that the defendant is entitled to
any other atiirmative relief. judgment must be given accordingly.

Sec. 217. Iirztry of the z.r:2'<Za.'c£. .i[).5:'o2z _;’i)rv2z-220 trial.

1. Upon receiving a verdict, the clerk shall maize an entry in
his minutes, s_oeeii"yin_:; the time and place of the trial, the names of
the jurors and v.'i:;1;3sses, the verdict, and either the judgment rendered thereon, or an order that the cause be reserved for argumentaml‘
further consideration. Ifa different direction be not given by the
court, the clerk must enter judgment in conformity with the verdict.

2. If an exception be taken, it may be reduced to writing at the
time, or entered on the j:1lg-3'3 minutes, and afterwards settled as
provided by the rules ct‘ the court, and then stated in writing in 3
case, or separately, with so much of the evidence as may be material to the questions to be raised, but need not be sealed or signed,
nor need a bill of exceptions he made.

3. I1 the exceptions be in the first instance stated in a case, and it
be afterwards necessary to so are/Le them, the separation may be made
under the discretion of thecourt, or a judgge thereof

4. The judge who tries the cause may, in his discretion, entertain
a motion, to be made on his minutes, to set aside a verdict and grant
9. new trial upon exceptions, or for insuiiieient evidence, or for excessive damages ; but sueli motion in actions hereafter tried, if heard
upon the minutes, can only he heard at the same term ‘at which the
trial is bad. When such motion is heard and decided upon the
minutes of the judge, and an appeal is taken from the decision, a
case or exceptions must be settled in the usual form, upon which the
agreement of the appeal must be -had.

CHAPTER IV.

. TRIAL BY THE COURT.

Section 218. Trial by jury, how waived.
219. On trial by the conrt,judgment, how given.
220. Exceptions, how and when taken.
22!. Proceedings upon judgment on issue of law.

CHAPTER IV.

Sec. 218. Trial by jury, how waived. Trial by jury may
be waived by the several parties to an issue of fact, i-n actions
on contract, and, with the assent of the court, inother actions,
in the manner following :

1, By failing to appear at ‘the trial.

2, By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with

the clerk.
3, By oral consent in open court, entered in the minutes,

Sec. 219. On trial by the court, judgment, how to be given.
Upon a trial of a question of fact by the court, its decision

shall be given in writing, and shall contain a statement of the

facts found, and the conclusions of law separately ; and upon
a trial of an issue of law, the decision shall be made in the same

manner, stating the conclusion of law. Such decision shall be
filed with the clerk Within twenty days after the court at which
the trial took place. Judgment upon the decision shall be entered accordingly.

Sec. 220. Exceptions, hour and when taken.

1, For the purpose of an appeal, either party may except to
a decision on a matter of law arising upon such trial within
ten days after notice in writing of the judgment, in the same
manner and with the same effect as upon a trial by jury.

2, And either party desiring to review, upon the evidence
appearing on the trial, either of the questions of facts or of
law may, at any time within ten days after notice of the judgment, or within such time as may be prescribed by the rules of
the court, make a case or exceptions in like manner as upon a
trial by a jury, except that the judge, in settling the case, must
'orieEy specify the facts found by him, and his conclusions of

law.

See. 221. Proceedings upon judgment on issue ‘of law.

On a. judgment for the plaintifff upon an issue of law, the plaintifff may proceed in the manner prescribed by the first two sub.
divisions of section 199, upon the failure of the defendant to

answer, where the summons was personally served. If judge
ncnt be for the defendant, upon an issue of law, and if taking

of an account or the proof of any fact be necessary to enable
the court to complete the judgment, wrcference or assessment
by jury may be ordered, as in that section provided.__

CIBAPTER V.~.

TRIAL BY REFEREES. .,

Sxcnox 222..,Al1 issues referable by consent.
223. Mode of trial. Effect of report. Review. _
224”. Referees, how chosen.

GHAPTER V., ' Sec. 222'. All issues referable by consent. All or» any of
the issues in the action, whether of"fact or of law, or both; may
be referred,'upon the written consent of the parties. 9

Sec. 223. Mode of trial. Efect of report. Re'vz'ew.' The ‘
trial by referees sh’all“‘be conducted‘ in the same manner, and
on similar notice, as a trial by the court. They shall have-the
same power to grant adjournments, and to allow amendments ‘
to any pleadings and to the summons, as the court upon such ‘
trial, upon the same terms and with the like effect. They shall
have the same power to preserve order and punish a.l1'=violations thereof upon such trial,'and ‘to compel the attendance of
witnesses before them by attachment, and to punish -them as
for a. contempt for non-attendance or refusal to be sworn or
testify, as is possessed by the court. They must statethe facts
founded and the conclusions of law separately-; and their de-~
cision must be given, and maybe exceptedxto and. reviewed in
like manner, but with like effect in all respects as in cases of‘
appealeunder section 220; -and they may in like~manner settle
a case of exceptions. The report of the referees upon the whole»
issue shall» stand-: as the decision of the court, and judgment
may be entered :thereon in the same manner as if the action.
had been tried by the court. When the reference is to report.
the facts, the reppntshall have. the effect of, a sp,,ecia1.verdict. .

Sec. 1224. Referees, how chosen. -In all cases of reference, 2
the parties as to whom issues are formed in the action (except
when" the defendant: is an infant orean absentee,) may agree in
writing upon a person or persons not exceeding three, and a
reference shall be ordered to him or them, and to no other persons. 'And if-such parties do not agree, the court shall appoint
one or more referees, no~t«--more than three, who shall be free
from exception. And no person shall be appointed referee to
whom all parties in this action shall object, except in actions
for divorce. ‘And no justice or judge of any court shall sit as
referee in any action pending in the court of which he is judge,
and not already referred. «Unless the~court shall order, or the
parties otherwise stipulate, the referee or referees shall make
and deliver a report Within sixty days from the time the action
shall be finally submitted; and in default thereof, said referee
or-. referees shall not be entitled to- receive any fees, and the
action shall proceed as if~no reference-had been enforced.

"CHAPTER "VI.
nuxnnnn or ENTERING JUDGMENT.

‘Sec tion 225. Judgment may be for or against any ofthe parties to
the action; may grant defendant affirmative relief.
Complaint may be dismissedifor neglect to prosecute
the action. Judgment against ‘married woman.

"226.~i‘l1e relief to be awarded to the plaintifff.

-227. Rate of damages, r.-here damages are recoverable.
228. Judgment in action for recovery of personal property.
229. Judgment, how directed.

‘ 230. Clerk to keep a judgment book.
231. Judgment to be entered in judgment book.

. 232. Judgment-roll.
233. Judgments, how and when to be docketed.

‘Sec. 225. Judgment magibe for or against any of the par-- 2:
ties ; may grant defendant agirmative re.72'ef. Complaint may
be dismissed for neglect to prosecute action. Judgment again st

married woman.
'1..Jud'gment‘ may be given “for or against one or more of

.~sevcr.al plaintifffs, and for or against one or more of several defendants; and it may determine the ultimate rights of the par~
ties on each side, as between themselves.

2. And it may grant to the defendant any adirmative relief
to which he may. be entitled.

3. In an action against several defendants, the court may, in
its discretion, render judgment against one or more of. them
leaving the action to proceed against the others, whenever a
several judgment may be proper.

4. The court may also dismiss the complaint, with costs in
favor of. one or more defendants, in case of unreasonable neglect
on the part of the plaintifff to serve the summons on other defendants, or to proceed in the cause against the defendant or
defendants served. In an action brought by or against a married woman, judgment may be given against her as well for costs
as for damages, or both for such costs and for such damages,
in the same manner as against other persons, to be levied and
collected of her separate estate and not otherwise.

Sec. 226. The relief to be awarded to the plaintzf. The
relief granted to the plaintifff, if there be no answer cannot exceed that Which he shall have demanded in his complaint; but
in any other case the court may grant him any relief consistent
with the case made by the complaint and embraced within the
issue.

Sec. 227. Rate of damages where damages are recoverable;
Whenever damages are recoverable, the-plaintifff may claim and
recover, if he show himself entitled thereto, any rate of damages
which he might have heretofore recovered for the same cause
of action.

Sec. 228. Judgment action for recovery of personal property.
In an action to recover the possession of personal property, the
judgment for the plaintifff may be for the possession, or for the
recovery of possession, or the value thereof in case a delivery
cannot be had, and of damages for the detention. If the pro=
perty have been delivered to the plaintifff, andjthe déeéndang
claim a return thereof, judgment for the defendantmay be for
a return of the property, or the value thereof in case a return
cannot be had, and damages for takingzand Withholdingthe
same.

Sec; 229.’ Jualgntent, how directed. Judgment upon an issue of law or of fact, or upon confession, or upon failure to am
swer (except where the clerk is authorized to enter the same
by the first subdivision of section 199, and byscction 806,) shall
be entered upon the direction of the judge, or report of referees.

Sec. 230. 0.’cr.7c to keep a Juclgnzerzt-book. 'I‘he'clerk shall

keep, among the records of the court, a book, for the entry of

jixdgments, to be called the “judgment book.”

See. 231. Judgnzent to be entered'2'2t' Jiztdgment-book. The
judgment shall be entered in the judgment-book, and shall
specify clearly the relief granted, or other determination of the
action.

Sec. 232. Jiudgmcnt-roll. Unless the party or his attorney
shall furnish ajudgrnentwoll, the clerk, immediately after en~
tering the judgment, shall attach together, and file the folloW~
ing papers, Which shall constitutcthejudgment-roll.

1'. In case the complaint be not answered by any defendant,
the summons and complaint, or copies thereof, proof of service,
and that no answer has been received, the report, if any, and a
copy of the judgment.

2. In all other cases, the summons, pleadings, or copies thereof, and a copy of the judgment, with any verdict or report, the
offer of the defendant, exceptions, case, and all orders or papers in any way involvingthc merits and necessarily aliecting
the judgment.

Sec. 233. Jhdjntents, when and how to be olocketcd. On iiling,.a~j_u‘dgment-roll upon a. judgment directing in whole or in
p'art'th'e payment of money, it may be doclrctcd with the clerk
of the court where it was rendered, and in any other county
upon the filing with the clerk of the district court for said
county a transcript of the original» “docket,” and shall be a
lien on the real property, in the county where the same is dock~
ctcd, of every person against whotn any suchjudgment shall be
rendered, and-which he may have at the time of docketing
thereof in the county in xshich such real estate is situated,

or which he shall acquire at any time thereafter, for ten years
from the time of docketing the same in the county where it was
rendered. But whenever an appeal from any judgment shall

be pending, and the undertaking requisite to stay execution
on such judgment shall have been given, and the appeal per~
fected as provided in the Code, the court in which such judgment was recovered may, on special motion, after notice to the
person owning the judgment, that the same is " secured on appeal ; ” and thereupon it shall cease during the pending ofthe
appeal, to be alien on the real property of thejutlgment debtor
as against purchasers and mortgagees in goodfaith.

TITLE ‘IX.

OF THE EXECUTION OF THE JUDGMENT IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

CHAPTER I. The execution
II. Proceedings sumvlementary to the execution

CHAPTER 1.

THE EXECUTION.

C

Section 234. Execution within five years of course

235. Execution can only he issued by leave of court after
five years. Leave, how obtained
236. Judgments, how enforced
‘.237. The different kinds of execution

238. To what counties execution may be issued. Execution
against a married woman.

239. Execution against the person. in what cases
240. Form of the execution

241. Execution to be returned in sixty days

.242. Existing laws relating to execution continued

\

Sec. 9.34. E’:z:ecutz'on witlzi-n five years of course. Writs of
execution for the enforcement of judgments, as now used, are
modified in conformity to this title, and the party in whose

favorjudgment has been heretofore or shall hereafter be given
may, at any time within five years after the entry ofjudgment,

proceed to enforce the same as prescribed by this title.

Sec. 235. After jiveygears to be issued only by leave of
court. Leave, how obtainecl. After the lapse of five years from
the entry of judgment, an execution can be issued only by leave
of the court, upon motion, with personal notice to the adverse
party, unless he be absent or non~resident, or cannot be found
to make such service, in‘ which case such service may be made
by publication, or in such other manner as the court shall direct. Such leave shall not be given unless it be established by
the oath of the party, or other satisfactory proof, that the
judgment, or some part thereof, remains unsatisiied and due.
But the leave shall not be necessary when execution has been
issued on the judgment within the five years, and returned
unsatisfied in whole or in part.

Sec. 236..Jua’g7nents, how enforced. Where a judgment
requires the payment of money, or the delivery of real or personal property, the same may be enforced in these respects by
execution, as provided in this title. Where it requires the
performance of any other act, a certified copy of the judgment
may be served upon the party against Whom it is given, or the
person or oliicer who is required thereby or by law to obey
the same, and his obedience thereto enforced. If he refuse,
he may be punished by the court as for contempt.

Sec. 237. The d{y""erent kinds of execrution. There shall
be three kinds of execution; one against the property of the
judgment debtor; another against his person; and the third
for the delivery of the possession of real or personal property,
or such delivery with damages for withholding the same. They
-shall be deemed the process of the court, but they need not be
sealed nor subscribed, except as prescribed in section 240.

Sec. 238. To what Counties ercecution may be issued. 
cc-ution against a marriecl woman. When the execution is
against the property of the judgment debtor, it may be issued
to the sheriff of any county where judgment is docketed.
When it requires the delivery of real or personal property, it
must be issued to the sheriff of the county where the property
or_ some part thereof, is situated. Executions may be issued
at the same time to different counties. Real property adjudged
to be sold must be sold in the county where it lies, by the sheriff of the county, or by a referee appointed by the court for
that purpose, and thereupon the sheriff or referee must execute a conveyance to the purchaser, Whit‘-ll conveyance shall be
effectual to pass the rights and interests of the parties adjudg-r

ed to be sold. An execution may issue against a married”

woman, and it. ‘shall direct the levy and collection of the

amount of thejudgment against her from her separate property, and not otherwise.

Sec. 239. Execution against the pgrson, in what cases.‘ If

the action be one in which the defendant might have been ar-"

rested, as provided in section 132 and section 134, an execu’-‘
tion against the person of the judgment debtor may be issued
to any county within the jurisdiction of the court, after the
return of an execution against his property unsatisfied in whole
or in part. But no execution shall issue against the person of
ajudgment debtor, unless an order of arrest has been served,
as in this act provided, or unless the complaint contains a
statement of facts showing one or more of the causes of arrest
required by section 132.

See. 24 0. Form of the execution. The execution must be
directed to the sheriff, or coroner when the she:-iffis a party or
interested, subscribed by the party issuing it, or his attorney,
and must intelligibly refer to the judgment, stating the court,
the county where the judgment roll or transcript is filed, the
names of the parties, the amount ofjudgment, if it be for
money. and the amount actually due thereon, and the time of
doclteting in the county to which the execution is issued, and
shall require the o$cer substantially as follows:

1. Hit be against the property of thejudgment debtor, it
shpll require the officer to satisfy the judgment out of the personal property of such debtor; and if sullieient personal prop.
crty cannot be found, out of the real property belonging to
him’ on the day when the judgment was docketed in the eoumya;
or at any time thereafter; '

2, If it be against real or personal propertyein the h"ands"of”
personal representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, or tenants of
real property, or trustees, it shall» require the officer to satisfy
the judgment out of such. property.. ‘

3, If it be againstt th,c_.pg2rs.on ,of the judgment debtor, it

shall require the officer to arrest such debtor, and commit him
to the jail of the county until he shall pay the judgment or be
discharged according to law.

4;, If it be for the delivery of the possession of_rcali or per» 1
sonal property, it shall require the officer to deliver the possession of the same, particularly describing it, to the party enti-tled thereto, and may at the same time require the officer tosatisfy any costs, damages, orrents or prohts recovered by the
lame judgment, out of the personal” property of the party
against whom it was rendered, and the value of the property
for which the judgment was recovered, to be specified‘ therein ;
ifa delivery thereof cannot be had, and if sufficient personal
property cannot be found, then out of the real property belonging to him on the day when thejudgment was docketed, or at

any time thereafter, and shall in that respect be deemed an execution against property.

See. 241'. Tobe returnablein sixty days. The execution
shall be returnable within sixty days, after -its receipt by the

oliicer, to the clerk with whom the record of judgment is
filed;

See. 242. Existing laws relating to execution contz'nued, untilotherwise provided. Until otherwise provided by the legis<
lature, the existing provisions of law, not in conflict with this
ohapter, relating to executions and their incidents, the property
liable to sale on execution, the sale and redemption thereof,
the powers and rights of odicers, their duties thereon, and the
proceedings to enforce those duties, and the liability of their

sureties, shall apply to the executions prescribed by this oh«a~p-. ter.

CHAPTER. II.

PROQEEDINGS SUPPLEMENTARY TO THE EXECUTION.
81:o1'1oN 243. Order for discovery of property, examination of?’
judgment debtor, &c.

i 244. Any debtor to execution debtor may pay his debt"
to sheriff.

245. Examination of debtors of judgment debtor, or off.
those having. property belonging to him. i

SECTION 246. Witnesses required to testifv.
247. Compelling party-or witnesses -to attend.

248. What property may be ordered to be applied -to the

execution.
249. Judge may appoint receiver, and prohibit transfer

o‘i property.
250. Proceedings ~upon claim of another party to property, or on denial of .indebtednees- to,judg.meut debtor.
251. Reference bvjutlge.
2-52. Costs of proceeding.
.253. Disobedience of order, how punished.

Sec. 243. Order for discovery of propcrtj/,exann'naI£on of judgment debtor, d}c. '

1. VVhen an execution against property of the judgment
debtor, or of any one of the several debtors in the same judgment, issued to the sheriff of the county where he resides or has
a place of business, or, if he do not reside in the Territory, to
the sheriffof the county where a judgment roll, or a transcript
of ajust.ice’s judgment for twenty-five dollars or upwards,§exelusive of costs, is filed, is returned unsatisfied in whole or in
part, the judgment creditor, at any time after such return
made, is entitled to an order from a judge of the court, requiring suchjudgment debtor to appear and answer concerning his
property, before such judge, at a time andplace specified. in the
order, within the county to which the execution wasissucd.

2, After the issuing of an execution against property, and
uponproof by athdavit, of a party or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the court, or a judge thereof; that any judgment
debtor, residing in the district where such judge resides has
property which he unjustly refuses to apply towards the satisfaction of the judgment, such court or judge may, by an order,
require thejudgment debtor to appear at a -specified time and
place, to answer concerning the same; and such proceedings
may thereupon be had for the application of the judgment debtor towards the satisfactionof-the judgment -as are provided
upon the return of an execution.

3, On an examination under this section, either party may
examined-ritnesses in his behalf, and the judgment debtor may
be examined 1n-the -same manner as a witness.

4;‘ Instead of the order requiring the attendance oi“the judgment debtor, the judge may, upon proof by affidavit or otherwise, to his satisfaction, that there is danger of the debtor’s

leaving the Territory, or concealing himself, and that there is
reason to believe he has property which he unjustly refuses to
apply to suchjudgment, issue a warrant requiring the sheriff of
any county where such debtor may be, to arrest him and bring
him before such judge. Upon being,_brought_ before the judge,
he may be examined on oath, and, if it then appears that there
is danger ofthe del>tor’s leaving the Territory, and that he has
property which he has unjustly refused to apply to such judgment, ordered to enter into an undertaking, with one or more
sureties, that he will, from time to time, attend before the
judge as he shall direct, and that he will not, during the pendency of the proceedings, dispose of any portion of his property not exempt from execution. In default of entering, into
such undertaking, he may be committcdto prison bywarrant
of the judge, as fora contempt.

5, No person shall, on examination pursuant to this chapter,
he excused from answering any question on theground that his
examination will tend to convict him of the commission of a
fraud; but his answer shall not be used as evidence against
him in any crimin‘al"proceeding or prosecution. Nor shall‘ he
be excused from answering any question on the ground that he
has, before the examination, executed any conveyance, assignment or transfer of his property for any purpose, but his an‘-°
swer shall not be used as evidence against‘ him in any criminal
proceeding or prosecution.

Sec. 244. Any debtor may pay escecution agcu'-nst Ms crec.7£zors.
After the issuing of execution against property, any person indebted to the judgment debtor‘-may pay to the sheriff the amount
of his debt, or so much thereof as shall be necessary to satisfy
the execution and the sheriffs receipt shall be a sufficient discharge for the amount so paid.

Sec. 245.’ Exatmination of debtors of judgment debtor, or of.
those having property jbelongzing to /zz'm.. After the issuing-l
or return of an execution against property of. the judgment
debtor, or of any one of several debtors in the same judgment,
andZupon°an.aHidavit that any person or.ucorporation.has property of such judgment debtor, or is indebted to him in an
amount exceeding ten dollars, thejudge may, by an order, require such person or corporation, or any officer or member
thereof, to appear at a specified time and'place, and answer
concerning the same. The judge may also in his discretion,
require notice of such proceeding to be given to any party to
the action, in such manner as may seem to him proper. The
proceedings mentioned in this section, andlin section 243, may
be taken upon the return of an execution unsatisfied, issued
upon a judgment recovered in an action against joint debtors,
in which some of the defendants have not been served with the
summons by which said action was commenced, so far as relates
to the joint property of such debtors; and all actions by credi‘tors to obtain satisfaction -ofjudgments out of the property of
joint debtors are maintainable 1n the like manner and to the
like effect. These provisions shall apply to all proceedings and
actions now pending, and not actually terminated by any final
judgment or decree.

Sec. 246. Witness required to testify. . Witness may be reA quired to appear and testify on any proceedings under this chapter, in the same manner as upon the trial of an issue.

See. 2-17. Compelling party or witnesses to attend. The
party or witness may be required to attend before the judge,
or before a referee appointed by the court or judge; if before
a referee, the examination shall be taken by the referee, and
certified to the judge. All examinations and answers before a
judge or referee, under this chapter, shall be on oath, except
that when a corporation answers, the answer shall be on the
oath of an officer thereof. ”

Sec. 248. What property; may be ordered to be applied to
the execution. The judge may order any property of the judgment debtor, not exempt from execution, in the hands either of
himself or any other person, or due to the judgment debtor, to
be applied towards the satisfaction of the judgment; except that
the earnings of the debtor for his personal services, at any time
within sixty days next preceding the order, cannot be so applied when it is made to appear by the'debtor’s affidavit or
otherwise, that such earnings are necessary for the use of a
family supported wholly or partly by his labor.

Sec. 249. Judge may appoz'nt"recez'ver and prolzzbititransfer, J

I’

..§~c., of property. 'Thc judge may also, by order, appoint at;

receiver of the property of the judgment debtor, in the same F
manner, and with the like authority, as if the appointment was

‘made by the court, according to section 197. But before the

appointment of such receiver, the judge shall ascertain, if practicable, by the oath of the party, or otherwise, Whether any
other supplementary proceedings are pending against the judgment debtor, and if such proceedings are so pending, the
plaintifff therein shall have notice to appear before him, and
shall likewise have notice of all subsequent proceedings in relation to.said receivership. N o more than one receiver of the
property of a judgment debtor shall be appointed. The judge
may also, by order, forbid a transfer or other disposition ofthe
property of the judgment debtor not exempt from execution,
and any interference therewith. Whenever the judge shall
grant an order for the appointment of a. receiver of the property
ocfthe judgment debtor, the same shall be filed in the office of
the clerk of the court where the judgment roll in the action or
transcript from justice’s_jr1-dginent, upon which the proceedings
are taken, is filed; and the said clerk shall record the order in
a hook to be kept for that -gourpose in his office, to be called
“Book of orders appointing receivers of judgment debtors,"
and shall note the time cffiling ofsaid order therein. A certified copy of said order shall be delivered to the receiver named
therein, and he shall be vested with the property and effects of
the judgment debtor from the time of the filing and recording
of the order as aforesaid. The receiver of thejudgment debtor
shall be subject to the direction and control of the court in
which the judgment was obtained upon which the proceedings
are founded. But before he shall be vested with any real property of such judgment debtor, a. certified copy of said order
shall also be filed and recorded in the oliice of the register of
deeds of the county in which any real estate of such judgment
debtor sought tobe affected by such order is situated, and also
in the office of the register of deeds of the county in which such
judgment debtor resides. '

Sec. ‘.250. Proceeclings upon claim of another party to property, or on denial of indcbtc Zness to judgment debtor. If is

appear that a person or corporation alleged to have property of
thejudgment debtor, or indebted to him, claims an interest in
the property adverse to him, or denies the debt, such interest or
debt shall be recoverable only in an action against such person
or corporation by the receiver; but the judge may, by order, forbid a. transfer or other disposition of such property or
interest, till a sufficient opportunity be given to the receiver to
commence the action, and prosecute the same to judgment and
execution; but such order may be modified or dissolved by the
judge granting the same, at any time, on such security as he
shall direct.

Sec. .5351. Rejcrcnce Ly juc?{/e. The judge may, in his discretion, order a reference to a referee agreed upon by the parties, or appointed by him, to report the evidence or the facts,
and, may in his discretion, appoint such referee in the first order, or at any time.
See. 252. Costs ofproceeding. The judge may allow to
thejudgment creditor, or to any party so examined, whether

a party to the action or not, witnesses’ fees and disbursements,
and a fixed sum in addition, not exceeding‘ thirty dollars, as

costs.
Sec. 253. .Dz'sol}'ecZience of order, 72020 pmz2's7te(.’. If any
person, party, or witness, disobey an order ofthejudge or.-referee, duly served, such person, party, or witness, may be punished - j

by the judge as for a contempt. And in all cases of commitment under this chapter, the person committed may, in case of
inability ‘to perform the act required, or to endure the imp:-is.‘
onment, be dischargedfrom imprisonment by the court orjudge

committing him, or the court in which tliejudgment was renderv

ed, on such-terms as may bejust.

TITLE 
or arms cosrs IN CIVIL-1&C3I0NSo'i

s£C'I'ION 254. Agreementof parties with attorneys, &c
255, Costs, when allowed of "course to the plaintiff

SECTION 256 Costs, when allowed of course to the defendant

1

257. Costs, when allowed to either party, in the discretion of the court
 Amount of costs allowed

» 9. Allowance in addition to costs

200. Allowance how computed. Diflicult and extraordinary cases ‘'

260. Interest on verdict or report. when allowed

262. Costs, how to be inserted in judgment. Adjustsment of interlocutory costs.

263. Clerk's fees

25%. Referees fees - ,

2.35. Costs on postponnient of trial _ 3266. Costs on a motion ~

‘.307. Costs against an infant plaintifff

2613. Costs in an action by or against an executor or administrator, trustee of an express trust, or a person
expressly authorized by statute to sue. Security for
costs '

5369. Costs in review of a decision of an inferior court in aspecial proceeding

270. Costs in actions by the people

271. The like

272. Costs against assignee after action brought, of cause
of action

273. Costs on a settlement.

Sec. 25l. Agrecmezzz of _,'narz’{cs icfiiz. (attorney/s d’;c. The amount
of fees of attorneys, solicitors and counsel In civil and criminal actions shall be left to the agrcenient express or implied of the parties. But there may be allowed to the prevailing. party, in civil ac:
tions, upon the judgnicnt, certain sums by way of indemnity for his
expenses in the action, which allowances are in this act termed costs.

Sec. 255. ll’/'ze‘;z. alfowccl of course to the plcz-¢';2.tz'[f'. Costs shall be
allowed of course to the plaintiff, upon a recovery, in the following

cases : ‘

1, In an action for the recovery of real property, or when a claim
of title to real property ari;-:.e':s on the pleadings,’ or is certified by the
court to~h:rve come in question at the trial;

2., In an action to recover the possession of personal property;

3, In the actions of which a cnurt of justice ot the peace has no
jurisdiction; ’

4. In an action for the recovery of money, Wheie the plaintifff
shall recover fifty dollars; but in an action for assault, battery, false
imprisonment, libel, slander, malicious prosecution, criminal ‘conversation, or seduction, if the plaintiff recover less than fifty dollars damage, he shall recover no more costs than damages.
And in action to recover the possession of personal property,
if the plaintifff recover less than fifty dollars damages, he shall re<
cover no more costs than damages, unless he recovers also property,
the value of which, with the damages, amounts to fifty dollars, or the
possession of property be adjudged to him, the value of which, with
the damages, amounts to fifty dollars; ‘such value must be determined
by the jury, court, or referee, by whom the action is tried.

When several actions shall be brought on one bond, recognizance,
promissory note, bill of exchange, or other instrument in writing, or
 any other case, for the same cause of action, against several parties
who might have been joined as defendants in the same action, no
costs other than disbursements shall be allowed to the plaintiti’ in
more than one of such_actions, which shall be at his election ; Provided, That the party or parties proceeded against in such other action
or actions have been within this Territory. and not secreted.

Sec. 256. When allowed to cle/izndant. Costs shall be allowed of
course to the defendant, in the actions mentioned in the last section,

unless the plaintifff be entitled to costs therein.

Sec. 257. When allowed to either party, in the discretion of the

court. In other actions, costs, may be allowed or not, in the discreu *

tion of the court.
In all actions where there are several defendants not united in interests, and making separate defenses by separate answers, and the 3

plaintifff fails to recover judgment against all, the court may award
costs to such of the defendants as have judgment in their favor, or any
of them. Inthe following cases the costs of an appeal shall be in the
discretion of the court:

1, When anew trial shall be ordered;

2, When a judgment shall be aliirmed in part, and reversed in
part;

Sec, 258. Amount of costs allowed. When allowed, costs shall
be as follows : '

1, To the plaintiff, for all proceedings before notice of trial, eight
dollars: for all proceedings after notice and before trial, eight dollars; for each additional defendant served with process not cxceedn
ing ten, two dollars; and for each necessary defendant in excess of
that number, served with process, one dollar.

2, To the defendant, for all proceedings before notice of trial, ‘rive
dollars; and for all proceedings after notice of and before trial, eight
dollars.

3, To either party, where a new trial shall be had, for all proceedv A

ings after the granting of and before such new trial, twelve dollars ; 3]

for attending upon and taking the deposition of a witness condition»
«ally, or attending to perpetuate his testimony, five dollars ; for drawing interrogatories to annex to a commission for the taking of testimony, five dollars ; for attending the examination of a party before
trial, five dollars ; for making and serving a case, or case containing
exceptions, eight dollars; except that where the case shall necessarily
contain more than fifty folios, there shall be allowed ten dollars in
addition thereto ; and for making -and serving amendments thereto,
five dollars. To the plaintifff for the appointment of a guardianof
an infant defendant, five dollars ; but no more than ten dollars shall
be allowed for the appointment of guardians in any one action. To
the plaintifff for procuring an order of injunction, ten dollars.

4, To either party for the trial of an issue of law, ten dollars; for
every trial of an issue of fact, Iifteen dollars; and where the trial
shall necessarily occupy more than two days, ten dollars in addition
thereto.

5, To either party on appeal to the supreme court, before argu- ~
-ment, ten dollars; for argument twenty dollars, and when a judgment is aliirmed, the court may, in its discretion, also award damages for the delay, not exceeding ten per cent. on the amount of the
judgment;

6, To either party, for every term, not exceeding five, at which the
"cause is necessarily on the calender and is not tried-, or is postponed
by order of the court, five dollars ; and for -every term not exceeding
‘ten, excluding the term at which the cause is argued in the supreme
court, ten dollars; but in an action hereafter brought to recover
dower, before admeasurement of real property aliened by the husband, the plaintifff shall not recover costs unless ‘it appear that the

dower was demanded before the commencement of the action and
was refused.

The same costs shall be allowed to the plaintifff in proceedings under chapter two, title twelve, of the second part of this Code, as upon the commencement of an action. '

Costs shall be allowed to the prevailing party in judgments rendered on appeal from justices courts in all cases, with the following
exceptions and limitations: In the notice of appeal, the appellant shall
state in what particular or particulars he claims the judgmentshould
have been more favorable to him. Within fifteen days after the service of the notice of appeal the respondent may serve upon the appellant and justice an offer, in writing, to allow the judgment to be

s corrected in any of the particulars mentioned in the notice of papeal. The appellant may thereupon, and within five days thereafter,
file with the justice a written acceptance of such offer, who shall
thereupon make a minute thereof‘ in his docket, and correct such
judgment accordingly, and the same, so corrected, shall stand as his
judgment, and be enforced accordingly; and any execution which
has been issued upon judgment appealed from shall be amended by

the justice to correspond with the amended judgment; and no undertaking given to stay execution shall be enforced for more than

the amount of the corrected judgment. 1f such offer be not made,
and the judgment in the appellate court be more favorable to the
appellant than the judgment in the court below, or if such offer be,

made and not accepted, and the judgment of the appellate court he
more favorable to the appellant than the offer of theerespondent, the

’ appellant shall recover costs. If the offer be made, and accepted by the

appellant the appellant shall recover all his disbursements on appeal,
and all his costs, in the court below. But the appellant shall not re-,
cover costs exceptas provided in this chapter. The respondent shall be,

entitled to recover costs where the appellant is not.

Whenever costs are awarded to the appellant, he shall be allowedl
to tax, as part thereof, the costs and fees paid to the justice on
making the appeal, as disbursements, in addition to the costs in the
appellate court; and when the judgment in the suit before the jus-I
tice was against such appellant, he sl-all further be allowed to tall
the costs incurred by him which he would have been entitled to recover in case the judgment below had been rendered in his favor. _ l

 

If, upon an appeal, a recovery for any debt or damages be had by l
one party, and costs be awarded to the other party, the court shall i
set off such,costs against such debt or damages, and render such 1

judgment for the balance. l

The following fees and costs, and no other, except fees of officers,
disbursements, and witnesses’ fees, shall be allowed on appeal to the
party entitled to costs as herein provided, when the new trial is in
the district court;

For proceedings before notice of trial three dollars ;

For all subsequent proceedings before trial, three dollars ;

For trial of an issue of law, five dollars;

For every trial of an issue of fact, ten dollars;

For argument of a motion for a new trial on a case of bill of exception, ten dollars.

l

n
In all cases, to either party, for everyterm, not exceeding five, at ,

bich the appeal is necessarily onthe calender and is not tried or
not postponed by the court, five dollars.

In other appeals the costs shall be as follows : To the appellant
1 reversal, fifteen dollars; to the respondent, on the affirmance,
'elve dollars. If’ thejudgment appealed from be reversed in part

.d affirmed as to the residue, the amount of costs allowed to either
.rty shall be such sum as the appellate court may award, not ex--«
eding ten dollars. If the appeal be dismissed for Want of prose.
.tion, no costs shall be allowed to either party. In every appeal,

.e justice of the peace before whom the judgment appealed from
13 rendered, shall receive two dollars for his return. If the judgent be reversedlfor ‘an error of fact in the proceedings, not ai‘.~.
zting the merits, costs shall be in the discretion of. the court.

If, in the notice of appeal, the appellant shall not state in What
rticular or particulars he claims thesjudgment should have been

do more favorable to him, he shall notbe entitled to costs unless
e judgment appealed from be Wholly reversed. '

Sec. 259. AdcZa'tz'on allozca-ace. In addition to these allowances,
are shall be allowed to the plaintifff, upon the recovery of judgant by him, in any action for the partition of real property, or for
e foreclosure of a mortgage, or in any action in which a warrant
attachment has been issued, or for an adjudication upon a. will or
1er instrument in writing, and in proceedings to compel the de-mination of claims to real property, the sum of five per cent. on
3 recovery, as in the next section prescribed for any amount not
ceeding two hundred dollars; an additional sum of 2% per cent. for
y additional amount not exceeding four hundred dollars; and an
clitional sum of one per cent. for any -additio-na_l amount not exa
zdingone thousand dollars.
And in the actions above n_amed, if the same shall be settled before
3 judgment therein, like allowaneesupon the amount paid or sea
red upon such settlement, at one-half‘ the rates above specified.

Sec. 260. Allowance how conzputcd. Dzjtcult and extraordinary
:es. These rates sh all be estimated upon the value of the props
y claimed or attached, or aifected by the adj udieation upon the will
other instrument, or sought to be partitioned, or the amount found
3 upon the mortgage in action for foreclosure. And whenever it

Lll be necessary to apply to the court for an order enforcing the
vment of an installment falling due after judgment in action for

eclosure, the plaintiff shall, be entitled to the rate of allowance
the last section prescribed, but to no more in the aggregate than
the Whole amount of the mortgage had been due yvhen judgment

was entered. Such amount of value must be determined by the
court, or by the commissioners in case of actual partition. In dif~
iicult and extraordinary cases, where a trial has been had, except in
any of the actions or proceedings (other than those for the partition
of real estate) specified in section 259, and in actions or proceedings
for the partition of real estate, the court may also, in its discretion
make a further allowance to any party, not exceeding five per cent,
upon the amount of tho- recovery or claim, or subject matter in.
volved.

Sec. 261. Interest on verdict or report, when allowed. When the

' judgment is for the recovery of money, interest, from the time of the

verdict or report until judgment be finally entered. shall be computed by theclerk, and added to the costs of the party. entitled thereto.

Sec. 262. Costs, how to be inserted in judgment. Acljustmentof
interlocutory costs. The clerk shall insert in the entry of judgment on
the application of the prevailing party, upon‘ five days’ notice tothe
other, except when the attorney reside in the same city, village, or
town, and then upon two days’ notice, the sum of the allowances for
costs as provided by this Code, the necessary disbursements, including
the tees of oilicers allowed by law, the fees of witnesses, the reasonable compensation of commissioners in taking deposition, the fees of
referees, and the expense of printing the papers for any hearing

_wheu required by rule of the court. The disbursements shall be

stated in detail and verified by aiiidavit. A copy of the items of the
costs and disbursements shall be served, with a notice of adjustment.

Whenever it shall be necessary to adjust costs in any interlocutory
proceeding in an action. or in any special proceeding, the same shall
be adjusted by the judge before whom the same be heard, or the

court before which the same may be decided or pending, or in such
other manner as the judge or court may direct.

Sec. 263. 0lerlc’s fees. The clerk shall receive :

On every trial, from the party bringing it on, two dollars;

On entering a judgment by filing transcript, ten cents ;

On entering judgment, one dollar.

But this section shall not be so construed as to prohibit the clerk

from receiving any other fees that may be allowed to him by law, fol
any other service not included in thissectiou.

Sec. 264. .Rejeree’s fees. The fees of referees shall be three dol
lars to each, for every day spentin the business of the reference; bit
the parties may agree in writing upon any otherrate or compensation

Sec. 265. Costs on postponement of trial. When an application .
shall be made to a court or referees to postpone a. trial, the payment '
to the adverse party of a sum not exceeding ten dollars, besides the fees

of witnesses, maybe imposed as the condition of granting the posts
ponement.

Sec. 266. Costs on a motion. Costs may be allowed on a motion, in ,4
the discretion of the court or judge, not exceeding ten dollars ,« and may
be absolute or directed to abide the event of "the action,

Sec. 267. Costs against 't'7zfa71.t platrttffi 'When costs are adjudged against an infant plaintifff, the guardian by whom he appeared
in the action shall be responsible therefore, and payment thereof’ may be
enforced by attachment. ‘ V

See. 268. Costs in action by or against an ercecutor or administrator, trustees of an express trust, or a person arpressly authorized by
statute to sue. Seciztrity for costs. ‘

1. In an action prosecuted or defended by an executor, administrator, trustee of an express trust, or a person expressly authorized by
statute, costs shall be recovered, as in action by and against 3. pers
:.=on',prosecuting or defending in iris own right; but such costs shall
be chargeable only upon or collected of the estate fund, or party represented, unless the court shall direct the same to be paid by the
plaintili’ or defendant personally, for mismanagement or bad faith in
such action or defense. But this section shall not be construed to
allow costs against executors or administrators where they are now
exempted therefrom.

2. And whenever any claim against a deceased person shall be re-«
ferred, pursuant to the provisions of law, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover the fees of referees and witnesses, and other
necessary disbursements, to be taxed according to law.

3. And the court may, in its discretion, ‘in the cases mentioned in
this section, require the plaintifff to give security for costs. \

Sec. 269. Costs on review of a decision of an inferior court in a special
_proceedz'ng. When the decision of a court of inferior jurisdiction in a.
special proceeding, including appeals from probate courts, shall be
brought before the supreme court for review, such proceedings shall
for all purposes of costs, be deemed an action at issue, on a question
of law, from the time the same shall be brought into the supreme
court, and costs thereon shall be awarded and collected in such man»
ner as the court shall direct according to the nature of the case.

See. 270. Costs in action by the people. In all civil actions, press
ecuted in the name of the people of the Territory, by an officer duly

authorized for that purpose, the people shall be liable for costs in the
same cases and to the same extent as private parties. If‘ a private
person be joined with the people as plaintifff, he shall be liable in the
first instance for the defendant's costs,wl1icl1 shall not be recovered of
the people till after execution issued theref'er against such private
party and returned unsatisfied.

sec. 271. C'0s{s In aclioazs by llzcpcople. In an action prosecuted
in the name of the people of this Territory, for the recovery ofmoney
or property, or to establish a right or claim for the benefit of any
county, city, town, village, corporation or person, costs awarded
against the party plaintiff shall be a charge against the party for
whose benefit the action was prosecuted, and not against the people.

See. 272. Costs against as.sz7_r/vazee aflcr action brought of cause of
aiction. ‘In actions in which the cause of action shall, by assignment
after the commencement of the action, or in any other manner, ‘hecome the property ofa person net a party to the action, such person
shall be liable for the costs, in the same manner as if he were a party,
and payment thereof may be enforced by attachment.

- Sec. 273. Costs an a, settlement. Upon the settlement, before
judgment, of any action mentioned in section 255, no greater sum
shall he demanded from the defendant as costs than at the rates prescribed by that section.

I

TITLE XI.

ON APPEALS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

CHAPTER 1. Appeals in general
11. Appeals in the supreme count

CIIAPTER I.

APPEALS IN GENERAL.

SECTION 274. Appeals
275. Orders made out of court, how vacated or modified
276. Vv'ho may appeal
277. Parties, how designated on appeals
278. Appeals, how made

SECTION 279. Clerk to transmit papers to appellate court.
280. Intermecli-ate orders affecting thejutlgment may be
reviewed on the appeal from the judgment
281. Jmlgtnent on appeal
28?... Time for appealing.

Sec. 274. Appeals. The mode of reviewing 9. judgment or
order, in a civil action, shall be that prescribed by this title.

See. 275. Orders made out ofcourt, /tow rczcztterl or moalt'~
jled. An order made out of court, without notice to the ad-n
verse party, may be vacated or modified, without notice, by
thejudge who made it, or may be vacated or modified on notice,
in the manner in which other motions are ma lc.

See. 276. W/to nztzy appeal. Any party aggrie\'etl may
appeal in the cases pI'€SCI‘ll‘l(_‘Ll in this title.

See. 277. Parties, ]l0‘Z() clesiqcrzatecl on appeal. The party
appealing shall be known as the appellant, and the adverse
party as the respondent. But the title of the action shall not
be changed in consequence of the appeal.

See. 278. Appeal, how mallet: - ’ _

1. An appeal must be made by the service of a notice in
writing on the adverse party, and on the clerk with whom the
judgment or order appealed from is entered, stating the appeal
from the same or some specified part thereof;

2. When a party shall give, in good faith, notice of appeal
from a. judgment or order, and shall omit, through mistalte, to
do any other act necessary to perfect the appeal or to stay
proceedings, the court may permit an amendment on such

terms as may be just. Sec. 279. Trans7m's.sz'on of papers to appellate court. If '
the appellant shall not, within twenty days after his appeal is
perfected, cause a. certined copy of the notice of appeal and of
the judgment roll, or, if the appeal be from an order or any
part thereof, a ccrtined copy of such order and the papers
-upon which the order was granted, to be transmitted to the
appellate court by the clerk with whom the notice of appeal is
filed, the respondent may cause such certified copy to be transmitted by such clerk to the appellate court, and recover the
expenses thereof as a disbursement on such appeal in case of

judgment or order appealed from shall be in whole or in part
afhrmed; and this provision shall apply to all appeals hereto-«
fore taken where the appeal has not been dismissed in the‘
manner prescribed by the rules of the appellate court.

Sec. 280. Intermediate orders afectzbzg the judgment may

i be reviewed on the appeal. Upon an appeal from a judgment,

“the court may review any intermediate order involving the
merits and necessarily eifécting the judgment.

Sec. 281. Judgment on appeal. Upon an appeal from a
judgment or order, the appellate court may reverse, affirm, or
modify the judgment or order appealed from, in the respect
mentioned in the notice of appeal, and as to any or all the
parties, and may, if necessary or proper, order a new trial.

When the judgment is reversed or modified, the appellate court
may make complete restitution of all property and rights lost
by the erroneous judgment. '

. Sec. 282. Time for appealing. The appeal to the supreme
court under subdivision 2 of section 10 of this code, must be
taken within sixty days after written notice of the order shall

have been given to the party appealing; every other appeal
allowed by the second chapter of this title must be taken within

two years afterpthee judgment shall. be perfected by filing the
judgment-roll.

CHAPTER II.

APPEALS TO THE SUPREME COURT.

SECTION 283. Appeal, in what cases
284. On appeal, security must be given or deposit made,
unless waived
285. On judgment for money, security to stay execution.

New undertaking in sureties on first becoming insolvent

2393. If judgment be to deliver document or personal
property, it must be deposited or security given

287. If judgment be to execute conveyance, it must be
executed and deposited

288. Security where judgmentis to deliver real property
or for a sale of mortgaged premises

SECTION 289. Stay of proceedings upon security being given

290. Undertakings may be in one instrument or several
291. Security to be approved and sureties to justify

292. Perishable property may be sold, notwithstanding
appeal

293. Undertaking must be filed

Sec. 283. Appeal, in what cases. An appeal may be taken .3
to the supreme court in the cases mentioned in section 10,
when any of the courts mentioned therein shall render judgment upon a verdict taken subject to the opinion of the court ;
the questions or conclusions of law, together with a concise
statement of" the facts upon which they arose, shall be prepared by and under the direction of the court, and shall be
£led with the judgment~roll, and be deemed a part thereof, for
the purpose of a review in the supreme court. The provisions
of this section shall apply to any judgment therein mentioned
that has been heretofore rendered, and, upon which an appeal
has been brought and is now pending, or upon which an appeal
shall hereafter be brought. When the return has already
been filed with the clerk of the supreme court such statement
shall be filed with him, and be deemed a part of such return.

Sec. 284. On appeal, security must be given or deposit made, 3
unless waived. To render an appeal effectual for any purpose,

a written undertaking must be executed on the part of the appellant, by at least two sureties, to the effect that the apps].liant will pay all costs and damages which may be awarded
against him on the appeal, not exceeding two hundred and

iifty dollars; or that sum must be deposited with the clerk with
whom the judgment or order was entered, to abide the event of
the appeal. Such undertaking or deposit may be waived by a
written consent on the part of the respondent.

Sec. 285. On judgment for money, security to stay e:cecu- ,
tion. New undertaking on sureties in first becoming insolvent. 1
If the appeal he froma judgment directing the payment of '

money, it shall not stay the execution of the judgment, unless
a written undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant

by at least two sureties, to the effect that, if the judgment appealed from, or any part thereof, be affirmed,_or the ‘appeal be
dismissed, the appellant will pay the amount directed to b.e~

paid by the judgment, or the part of such amount as to which
the judgment shall be afiirmed, if it be affirmed only in part,
and all damages which shall be awarded against the appellant
upon the appeal. Wlienever it shall be made satisfactorily to
appear to the court that since the execution of the undertaking
the sureties have become insolvent, the court may, by rule or

-order, require the appellant ‘to execute, file, and serve a new

undertaking as above; and in case of neglect to execute such
undertaking within twenty days after the service of a. copy of
the rule or order requiring such new undertaking, the appeal
may, on motion to the court, be dismissed with costs. Wheneverit shall be necessary for a party to any action or proceeding to give a bond or an undertaking, with surety or sureties,
he may, in lieu thereof, deposit with the officer or into court,
as the case may require, money to the amount for which such
bond or undertaking is to be given. The court in which such
action or proceeding is pending may direct what disposition
shall be made of such money, pending the action or proceeding.
In any case Where, by this section, the money is to be deposit~
ed with an officer, a judge of the court, at special term or at
chambers, upon the application of either party, may, before
such deposit is made, order it to be deposited in court instead
of with such officer; and a deposit made, pursuant to such on
der, shall be of the same effect as if made irith such officer.

Sec. 286. Ifjctdgment be to deliver document or personal
property, it must be deposited, or secztritfy be given. If the
judgment appealed from direct the assignment or delivery of
documents or personal property, the execution of the judgment
shall not be stayed by appeal, unless the things required to be
assigned or delivered be brought into court, or placed in the
custody of such officer or receiver as the court shall appoint,
or unless an undertaking be entered into on the part of the appellant, by at least two sureties, and in such amount as the
court shall direct, to the effect that the appellant will obey the
order of the appellant court upon the appeal.

See. 287. If to execute convey/ancc, it must ‘Be executed and
deposited. If the judgment appealed from direct the execution
ofa conveyance or other instrument, the execution of the judgment shall notbe stayed by the appeal until the instrument

shall have been executed and deposited with the clerk with
whom the judgment is entered, to abide the judgment of the
appellate court.

Sec. 288. iS'ecurz'tg/ wlcere judgment is to -deliver real property or for a sale of mortgaged prcnzises. If the judgment
appealed from direct the sale or delivery of possession of real
property, the execution of the'same shall not be stayed, unless
a Written undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant,
with two sureties, to the (iii-cot that, during the possession of
such property. by the appellant, he will not commit, or stiffer to
be committed, any Waste thereon, and that if the judgment be
affirmed, he will pay the value of the use and occupation of the
property, from the time of the appealuntil the delivery of possession thereof, pursuant to the judgment, not exceeding a sum
to be fixed by a judge of the court by which judgment was rendered, and which shall be specihed in the undertaking. When
the judgment is for the sale of mortgaged premises, and the
payment of a deficiency arising upon the sale, the undertaking
shall also provide for the payment of such tleficiency.

Sec. 289. Stay of procecdiizvg/s upon securt't'y being given.
Whenever an appeal is perfected as provided by sections 285,
£86, 287, and 288, it stays all further proceedings in the court
below upon the judgment and appeal from, or upon the matter
embraced therein; but the court below may proceed upon any
other matter included in the action and not aiiectcd by the
judgment appealed from. And the court below may, in its discretion, dispense with or limit the security required by sections
285, 288, and 288, when the appellant is an executor, adr:.in—istrator, trustee, or other person acting in another’s.right; and
may also limit such security to an amount not less than fifty
thousand dollars, in the e;1.~:e3 mentioned in actions 28%}, 287,
and 288, where it would otherwise, according to those sections,
exceed that sum.

Sec. 290. UndertaZ:a'ngs- maybe in one instrument or several. The undertakings prescribed by sections 284,285, 286,
and 288, may be .in one instrument or several, at the option of
the appellant; and a copy, including the names and residence
ofthe sureties, must be served on the adverse party, with the
notice of appeal, unless a deposit is made as provided in section

28-1, and notice thereof given.

Sec. 291. Security to be approved and to justify. An undertaking upon an appeal shall be-of ho effect, unless it be
accompanied by the affidavit of the sureties that they are each
worth double the amount specified therein. The respondent
may,‘hoWever, except to the suiliciency of the sureties, within
ten days after the notice of the appeal; and .unless they or
other sureties justify before a judge of the court below, as pres
scribed by sections 148 and 149, within ten days thereafter,
the appeal shall be regarded as it’ no undertaking had been given. The justification shall be upon a notice of not less than

five days.

See. 292. Perishable property maybe sold notwithstanding
appeal. In the cases not provided for in sections 285, 286,
287, 288, and 289, the perfecting of an appeal, by giving the
undertaking mentioned in section 284, shall stay proceedings
in the court below upon the judgment appealed from, except
that where it directs the sale of perishable property, the court
below may order the property to be sold, and the proceeds there~ ,
of to be deposited or invested, to abide the judgment of the appellate court.

Sec. 293. Undertaking must be filed’. The undertaking
must be filed with the clerk with Whom the judgment or order
appealed from was ordered.

TITLE XII.

OF THE MISCELLANEOUS PROCEEDINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS, AND
GENERAL PROVISIONS.

CHAPTER I: Submitting a controversy without action.

II. Proceedings against joint debtors, heirs, logatees,
devisees, and tenants holding under a judgment
debtor.

III. Confession of ajudgment without action.

IV. Offers of the defendant to compromise the whole or
a part of the action.

V. Admission or inspection of writings.

VI. Examinations of parties.
VII. Examination of witnesses.

CIIAP. VIII. Motions and orders. 1
IX. Entitling affidavits.
X. Computation of time.
XI. Notices, and filing and service of papers.
XII. Duties of sheriffs and coroners.
XIII. Accountability of guardians.
V XIV. Powers of referees.

XV. Miscellaneous provisions.

CHAPTER I.

SUBMITTING A OONTROVERSY WITHOUT ACTION.

SECTION 294. Controversy, how submitted without action.

295. Judgment.
296. Judgment, how enforced or appealed from.

See. 294. Controversy, how submitted without action. Para ,
ties to a question in difference, which might be the subject of a. '
civil action, may, Without action, agreeing upon a case containing the facts upon which the controversy depends, and present

a submission of the same to any court which would have juris~
diction if’ an action had been brought. But it must appear by
aiiidavit that the controversy is real, and the proceeding in
good faith, to determine the rights of the parties. The court
shall thereupon hear and determine the case, at a general
term, and render judgment thereon, as if an action were depending.

Sec. 295. Judgment. Judgment shall be entered in the

judgment—book, as in other cases. but Without costs for any proceeding prior to notice of trial. The case, the submission,

and a. copy of the judgment shall constitute the judgmentroll. I ‘

Sec. 296. Judgment, how enforced or appealed from. The
judgment may be enforced in the same manner as if it had been
rendered in action, and shall be subject to appeal in like manner.‘

dI1Ar'i:-En II.

PROCEEDINGS AGAINST JOINT DEBTORS, HEIRS, DEVISEES, LEGA*
TEES, AND TENANTS HOLDING UNDER A JUDGMENT
DIIBTOR.

SECTION 207. Parties, not summoned in action on joint contract,
may be summoned a:”te1‘j:ul;__m1ent
2173. 1l.jl1’,l‘__:'!TlClll, do tor die, his representatives may be
su in m onod
239. Form ofsuinmons
300. Summons to be accornpanisd by a;idavit ofamount
due
.301. Party summoned may answer and defend’
302. Suhseguexit pleadings and proceedings the same as
in an action
303. Answer and reply to be verified as in an action

See. 5397; Parties, not szmzanovzecl in action on joint contract,‘

may be szamnztoirzecl after -_7'udgment. Vflien ajudgnient shall
be recovered egaiiist one or more of several persons jointly in-<,lebted_upon~a contract, by proceeding as provided in section
80, those who were not originally sum !110’.'liZ'Cl to answer the complaint may be summoned to show cause vuhy they should not be
bound by the judgment, in the same manner as if they had been
originally summoned.

Sec. 298. If jualgnzevzt debtor die, his 7'eprcse~ntatz'ves may
be summoned. In case ofthe death of a juilginent debtor after
judgment, the heirs, devisees, orliegatees of thejzizlgment debtor, or the tenants of real property owned by him and affected
by the judgment, may, after the expiration of three years from
the time of. granting letters testamentary or of administration
upon the estate of the testator or intestate, be summoned to
show cause why the judgment should not be enforced against
the estate of the judgment debtor in their hands respectively;
and the personal representatives of a deceased judgment debtor may be summoned, at any time within one year after their appointment.

Sec. 299. Fe~r72z of su.n2mons. The summons provided in
the last two sections shall be subscribed by the judganent creditor,

his representatives or attorney, shall “describe the judgment, 1
and require the person summoned to show cause within twenty

. I
days after the service of the summons; and shall be served 111
like manner as the original summons.

Sec. 800. To be auoozvnpaizied by a;;7i;Zav5it of amount due. 2
The summons shall be accompanied by an affidavit of the person 3
subscribing it, that the judgment has not been satisfied, to his
knowledge or information and belief, and shall specify the

amount due thereon.

Eiec. 801. —Pcm‘.y smnmoncd may cmswer ancl clcfend. Upon 
such summons, the party summoned xnay answer within the
time specihed therein, denying thejudgment, or setting up any
defense which may have arisen subsequently; and, in addition
thereto, if he be proceeded against according to section 297, he
may make the same defense which he might have originally
made to the action, except the statute oflimitations.

‘Sec. 302. :f>’2.:bseque&2it plcadéiizgs cmclg)2°occcdz'ngs same as in
action. The party issuing the summons may demur or reply
to the answer, and the party summoned may demur to the reply; and the issue may be tried and judgment may be given in
the same manner as in an action, and enforced by execution or
the application of the props *ty charged to "cl:-e payment of the
jiidgment may be compelled by attachment, if necessary.

....__. ..

Sec. 303. Answer and reply to be zvcrzjicd as in an ac2.‘2'o72..
The answer and reply shall be verified in the like cases and
1

manner, and be subject to tne*= same rules, as the answer and
reply in an action.

CHAPTER '.7;I~I.

CO1\'FES~SION~0F JUDGMENT WITHOUT ACTION.

SECTION 304. J ndgment may be confessed for debt due or for contingent liability. .
305. Statement in writing and form thereof.
306. J udg:n6nt’’an‘d"execution. '

See. 304. Judgment may be confessed for debt due or con-tingent liability. . A judgment by confession may be entered,

without action, either for money due or to become due, or to se<
cure any person against contingent liability on behalf of the
defendant, or both, in he manner prescribed by this chapter.

Sec. 305. Stafernentzn-2m'2't£ng, azufform t/zercof. Astatev
ment in writing must be made, signed by the defendant and veriiied by his oath, to the following effect:

1. It must state the amount for which judgment may be entered, and authorizd the entry ofjudgment therefore. ,

2. If it be for money due or to become. due, it must state
concisely the facts out of which it arose, and must show that
the sum confessed thereforee isjustly due, or to become due.

3. If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintiiifagainst a
contingent liability, it must state concisely the facts constitut.

ing the liability, and must show that the sum confessed thereforee does not exceed the same.

Sec. 306. e7zc;‘Z,gre:2nt an-JZ e:~:ec:zt2.'—9n. The statement may
be filed with the clerk of the district court in the county where
thejudgment is brougat to be obtained, who shall endorse upon
it, and enter upon the judgment book a judgment of the dis.
trict court, for the amount C0h.feSSe(i, with five dollars costs, together with disbursements. The statement and affidavit, with
the judgment endors'e-;l, shall thenceforth become the judgment
roll. Execution may be issued and enforced thereon, in the
same manner as upon judgments in other cases in such courts.
When the debt for which the judgment is recovered is not all
due, or is payable in installments, -and the installments are not
all due, the execution may issue upon such judgtnent for the
collection of such installments as have become due, and shall
be in the usual form, butsh-all have endorsed thereon, by the

attorney or person issuing the same, a direction to the sheriff
to collect the amount due on such judgment, with interest and
costs, which amount shall be stated, with interest thereon, and

the costs of said _ judgment. Notwithstanding the issue and
collection of such execution, the judgment shall remain as security for the installments thereafter to become due, and Whenever any further installments become due, execution may, in
like manner, be issued for the collection and enforcement of
the same.

CHAPTER IV.

OFFER OF THE DEFENDANT TO COMPROMISE THE WHOLE OR A PART
OF THE ACTION.

Srzcrrox 307. Offer of compromise. ,
308. Defendant may offer to liquidate damages.
309. Effect of acceptance or refusal of offer.

See. 307. Ofcr of compromise. The defendant may at any time
before the trial or verdict, serve upon the plaintifff an offer in writing
to all judgment to be taken against him for the sum or property, or
to the effect therein specified, with costs. If‘ the plaintifff accept the
offer, and give notice thereof in writing, within ten days, he may file
the summons, complaint, and offer, with an affidavit of notice of‘ acceptance, and the clerk must thereupon enter judgment accordingly.
If the notice of acceptance be not given, the offer is to ‘be deemed
withdrawn, and cannot be given in evidence; and if the plaintifff fail

A to obtain a more iaverafile judgment, he cznnot recover costs, but

must pay the dcf'endant’s costs from the time of the offer.

Sec. 308. Defendants may 0_[/“er to liguirlatc damages corzclttfonallg/.
In an action arising on contract, the defendant may, with his answer
serve upon the plaintifff an offer in writing, that if he fail in his d.e~
fence, the damages be assessed at a specified sum; and if the plaintifff signify his acceptance thereof in writing, with or before the notice of‘ trial, and on the trial have a verdict, the damages shall be
assessed accordingly.

Sec. 309. Efcvt of acceptance of refusal of an ofcr. If the plain.tiff do not accept the offer, he shall prove his damages as if’ it had

not been made, and shall not be permitted to give it in evidence.
And if‘ the damages assessed in his favor shall not exceed the sum

mentioned in the offer, the defendant shall recover his expenses
incurred in consequence of any necessary ipreparations or defense in respect to the question of damages. Such expenses shall
be ascertained at the trial.

CHAPTER V.

ADMISSION ea INSPECTION or WRITINGS.

SECTION 310. Admission or inspection of writings.

Sec. 310. Adiztission or inspection of wrz°t£n;7s. Inspection and
copy of books, papers, and docztmczits, houz oZu'zrz.4':ml. ' Either party
may exhibit to the other, or to his attorney, at any time before the
trial, any paper material to the action, and request an admission in
writing ofits genuinencss. If the adverse party, or his attorney,
fail to give the admission within four days after the request, and if
the party exhibiting the paper be afterwards put to expense in order
to prove its genuincness, and the same be finally proved or admitted on
the trial, such expense, to be ascertained at the trial, shall be paid
by the party refusing the admission, unless it appear to the satisfac~
tion of the court, that there Were good reasons for the refusal. The
court before which an action is pending, or ajudge or justice thereof,
may, in their discretion, and upon due notice, order either party to
give to the other, Within a specilied time, an inspection and copy, or
permissionto take a copy, of’ any books, papers, and documents, in
his possession or under his control, containing evidence relating,to the_
merits of the action or the defense therein. If compliance with the
order be refused,thc court, on motion, may exclude the paper from
being giv-en_in evidence, or punish the party refusing, or both. .

CHAPTER VI.. ,

' EXAMINATION OP PARTIES. ~

SE(‘.TION~31"1. Action for discovery abolished.
312. A party may examine his adversary as a witness.

313. Such examination also allowed betore trial; Proceeding,

therefore.

314. Party, how compelled to attend.

315. Testimony of party may be rcbatted.

316. Effect of refusal to testify.

317. Testimony ofa party not responsive to theinquiries may
be rebutted by the oath of the party calling him.

318. Persons for Whom action is brought or defended -may.
be examined.

Sec.» 311. ‘Action for discovery abolished. No action to ob’tain discovery under oath, in aid of the prosecution or defense of
another action, shall be allowed, nor shall any examination of a
party _:.be had onbehalf of the adverse party, except in the manner psescribed bythis chapter. i

— Sec. 312. A party may e:z:amine"h'is adversary as a witness.

 party to an action may be examined as a witness, at the instance of the adverse party, or any of several adverse parties,
and for that purpose may be compelled, in the ‘same manner,
and subject to the same rules‘ ofexamination, as any other Witness, to testify, either at\the trial, or conditionally, or upon

eommission.

' Sec. 313. Such eazaminatiou also allowed before trial. Pro"-ceedings therefore. The examination, ‘instead of b‘eingf' had at

the trial, as provided in the last section, may be had at any
time before the trial, at the optionof the party claiming it, before ajadge of the. court, on a previous notice to the ‘party to
be examined, and any other adverse party, of at least‘ five days,
unless, for good cause shown, the judge order otherwise. But
the party to be examined shall not be compelled to attend in any
other county than that’ of his residence, or --Where he‘ may be
served with a summons for his attendance.

“ Sec. 314. Party how cornpellealto attend.‘ “The party to be
examined, as in thelast section provided, may be compelled to
attendin the same manner as a Witness who is to he examined
conditionally ; and the examination shall betaken and filed by
the judge in like manner, and may be read by ‘either party on
the trial. '

r‘Sec. 315. Testimony of partyinmag,/'be rebutfed. "The ex" amination of the party, ‘thus taken, may be rebuttedby adverse testimony.

" ‘Sec. 316. Effect of refusal to testify. If a party refuse to
attend and testify, as in the last four sections provided, he may
bepunished as for a contempt,‘ and his‘ complaint, answer, or
reply, may be stricken out.

See. 317. ‘Testimony by‘ a ‘party not responsive to the inquiries may be relmtted 63]" the oath of the party calling him.
A partyexamined by an adverse party, as in this chapter provided, may be examined on his own behalf,'subject to the same
rules of examination as other witnesses.

‘See. 318. A Persons for whom action is brought or clefended
may be examinecl. A person for whose immediate benefit the

eactionis prosecuted or defended, though not a party to the action, may be examined as a witness, in the same manner, and
subject to the same rules of examination, as if he Were named as

a party.

CHAPTER VII.

EXAMINATION OF WITNESSES.

Section 319. Interest not to exclude a witness.
320. Parties to actions and special proceedings may be witnesses on their own behalf, except in certain cases.

See. 319. Interest not to exclude a witness. No person offerred as a witness shall be excluded by reason of his interest
in the event of the action.

See. 320. Parties to actions, and special proceedings may
be examined as witnesses on their own behalf, except in certain
cases. A party to an action or special proceeding, including
proceedings in probate courts and proceedings for the summary
recovery of the possession of land, may be examined as a witness
on his own behalf, or in behalf of any other party, in the same

manner, and subject to the same rules of examination, as any
other witnesses:

Provided, however, That the assignor of a thing in action

' shall not be examined in behalf o£ said party, nor shall a party

to an action be examined in his own behalf in respect to any
transaction or communication had personally by said assignor,
or said party, respectively, with a deceased person, against parties who are the executors, admininistrators, heirs-at-law, next
of kin, or assignees of such deceased person, where they
have acquired title to the cause of action immediately from
such deceased person, or have been sued as such by the execun
tors, administrators, heirs-at-law, next of kin, or assignees.
But Where such executors, administrators, heirs-at-law, next of
kin or assignees shall be examined on their own behalf in ren
gard to any conversation or transaction had between the deceased person and said assignor, or said party, respectively,
then the said asslgnor or the said party may be examined in regard to such conversation or transaction, but not in regard to

any new matter. But if the testimony of a party to the action
or proceeding has been taken, and he shall afterwards die, and
after his death the testimonyso taken shall be used upon any
trial or hearing, in behalf of his executors, administrators, heirsat~law, next of kin, or assignees, or other party, or the assignor of a thing in action, shall be a competent witness, as to any
and all matters to which the testimony so taken relates, notwithstanding anything in this section contained to the contrary
thereof. The husband can, in no case, be a witness for or
against the wife, nor the wife for or against the husband, unless
the contract or facts to be sworn to are in the exclusive knowledge of such husband or wife, as agent or otherwise, in which
case but one can testify, and unless in a criminal proceeding for
a crime committed by one against the other.

oimmns VIII.

I$IorIoNs AND ovnnens.

SECTION 321. Defimtimt of an order.

322. Definition of a motion. Motions, how and when
made. Stay of proceiedings. Compelling parties to
testify on motions.

323. Notice of motion.

324. In al~s'ence, &e., of judge a.t chambers, motion may
be transferred to anotherjudge.
325. Enlarging time for the proceedings in an action.

See. 321. Defim'tz'on' of an order. Every direction of a
court or judge. made or entered in Writing, and not included
in judgment, is denominated an order.

See. 322. De;/initidwt of a motion. Zllotions, how and where

made. Stay of proceedings. Oompelling parties to testify.

1, An application for an order is a motion.

2, Orders made out of court, Without notice, may be made
by any judge of the court, in any part of the Territory.

3, Motions upon notice must be made Within the district in
which the action is triable. '

4, In all the districts, a motion to vacate or modify a provi~
sional remedy, and an appeal from an order allowing a provisional remedy, shall have preference over all other motion.-3'.

5, No order to stay proceedings for a. longer time than
twenty days, shall be granted by ajudge out of court, except
upon previous notice to the adverse party. Whenever any
party intends to make or oppose a motion in any court of record,
and it shall be I1OCO.~‘.f;'I11‘y for him to have the affidavit 'of any
person who shall have refrcsed to make the same, such court
may, by order, appoint a referee to take the affidavit or deposition ofsuch person. Such person may be subpoenaed and
compelled to attend and make an aiitlavit before such referee,
to whom it is referred to try an issue, and the fees of such
referee, for such service, shall be three dollars per day.

See. 323. N025-ice of 9:2o2'2'o22. When a notice of a motionis
necessary, it must be served three days before the time appointed for the hearing; but the court orjudge may by an order.to

show cause, prescribe a shorter time.

1‘

3-0., of" jzufgc at c7mmI2e7's. fllotion
may be trans erred to aizctlaer jun’;/c. When notice of a motion
is given, or an order to show cause 'is returnable before any
judge, out of court, and, at the time fixed for the motion, he is
absent, or unable to hear it, the same may be transferred, by
his order, to some other district judge in the Territory.

Sec. 3:2’. Enlezrgzng time for the proceedings in action.
The time within which any proceeding in an action must be
had, after its commencement, except the time within which an
appeal must be taken, may be enlarged, upon an affidavit showing grounds therefore, by a judge of the court. The affidavit,
or a copy thereof, nmst be. served,.with a copy of the order, or
the order maybe disregard-ed.

Sec. 32-}. In ahsrzncc

CHAPTER IX.

ENTITLING AFFIDAVITS.

Sec. 3‘.Zf'. Entitling ajZ«.‘(.'czvz'{s. A_j7Zr1ar2'ts cZcfcctz'2;eZ3/ entitled, valid. It shall not be necessary to entitle an afli~
davit in the action, but an affidavit made without a title, or
with a defective title, shall be as valid and effectual, for every

purpose as ifit were duly entitled if it intelligibly refer to the
action orvproceeding in which it is made.

CHAPTER X.
COMPUTATION -or TIME.

Sec. 327. Oozngautatiion of, Time. Time, how computed. ',
The time within which an act is to be done, as hereinprovided,
shall be computed by eircluding the first day, and including the
last. ,, If the last  be Sunday, it shall be excluded.

CHAPTER XI.

NOTICES, AND FILING AND SERVICE OF PAPERS.

SECTION 328. Notices, 6:0, how served.

329. Service, how made

33{‘. Service by mail ..3.‘l1. The like

332. Double time where service by mail

333. Notice of motion, &c., where personally. served

334. When papers need not be served on defendant

335. Service of papers where parties reside out of the

Territory
6. Summons and pleadings to be filed

37. Service on attorney _
'38. When this chapter does not apply

13 CD

_0
1)

C3

, Sec.'328. 1‘»7«)£:'cc.<,<i’r.:'., 1:020 scrvml. Notices shall be in Writing;
and notices and other p:1pers may be served onthe party or attorney,
in the manner pi'esci~il_»orl in the next three sections, where not otherwise provided by this act.

Sec. 329. S«:rz~a'cu /low 722r,m’c. The service may be personal, or
by delivery to the party, or attorney, on vrhom the service is required
to be made; or it may be as follows :

1, If upon an attcrney. it may be ]1‘.I‘t~';lC during his absence from his

, office, by leaving the paper with his clerk therein. or with a person

 having charge thereof ; or when there is no person in the ofiioe, by

L leaving it, between the hours of six in the morning; and nine in the

evening, in.a conspicuous place in the office; or if it be notopen so
i as to admit of such service, then by leaving it at the attorney’s res-.

idcnce, with some person of suitable age and discretion.

2, If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the paper at his res.idcnce, between the hours of six in the morning and nine in the
evening, with some person of suitable age and discretion.

See. 330- Service by mail. Service by mail may be made when
the person making the service and the person on whom it is to be
made reside in different places, between which there is a. regular
communication by mail.

See. 331. Same. In case of service by mail, the paper must be
deposited in the post office, addressed to the person on whom it is to
be served, at his place of residence, and the postage paid.

Sec. 332. Double timezchen scrvecl by mail. When the service is
by mail, it shall be double the time required in cases of personal ser.
vice, except service of notice of trial, which may be made sixteen
days before the day of trial, including the day of service.

Sec. 333. 1V0tice of motion, &‘c., when personally served. Notice
of a motion, or other proceeding before a court or judge, when personally scrved, shall be given at least three days before the time ap-«
pointed therefore.

Sec. 33 4. ll"/’ze2z.pcz,ncrs need not be served on clqfemlant. Where
a defendant shall not have demurred or answered, service of notice
or papers, in the ordinary proceedings in an action, need not be made

upon him or his attorney, if notice of appearance in the action has
been given.

Sec. 335. Servzbeofpupers where parties reside ozI,t of the Tern;

3 tor}/. Where a plaintifff or a defendant who has demurred or answered,

or gives notice of appearance, resides out of the Territory, and has
no attorney in the action, the service may be made by mail, if his
residence be known; if not known, on the clerk for the party.

Sec. 333. Summons a72cl])le(z(l£2zgs to be filed. The summons and

l the several pleadings in an action shall be filed with the clerk within ten days after the service, thereof, respectively, or the adverse

party, on proof of the omission, shall be entitled, without notice, to
an order from a judge that the same be filed within a time to be
specified in the order, or be deemed abandoned.

Sec. 337. Service an. attorney. Where a party. shall have an attorney in the action, the service of papers shall be made upon the
attorney, instead of the party.

Sec. 338. When tlrls chapmrcloes not apply. The provisions of
this chapter shall not apply to the service of a summons, or other
process, or of any paper to bring a party into contempt.

CHAPTER XII.

DUTIES OF SHERIFFS AND CORONERS

Sec. 339. Duig of sherzjf and coroner in scraivzg or ercecutirzg pro~ ,
:ess, and how cnforced. Whenever, pursuant to this act, the sheriff j
nay be required to serve or execute any surnmons, order, or judg- I
cnent, or to do any other act, he shall be bound to do so in like manner as upon process issued to him, and shall be equally liable in ali
respects for neglect of duty ; and if the sheriff be a party, the cor.
oner shall be bound to perform the service, as he is now bound toexecute process where the sheriff is a party ; and the provisions of
this act relating to the sheriff shall apply to coroners when'the sherif is a. party.

CHAPTER XIII.

ACCOUNTABILITY OF GUARDIAN 8.

Sec. 340. Guardian not to receive property; until secu7'ity given. No j
guardian appointed for an infant shall be permitted to receive property of the infant, until he shall have given suliicient security, approved by a judge of the court, to account for and apply the same,
under the direction of the court.

CHAPTER XIV.

POWERS OF REFEREES . .

Sec. 341. Powers of referees. Every referee appointed pursuant
to this act shall have power to administer oaths in any proceeding.
before him, and shall have generally the powers now vested in a.
referee by law-.

CHAPTER XV,

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISION S.

SECTION 342. Papers lost or withheld, how supplied
343. Where undertakings to be filed

\

SECTION 3'14-. Time for publication of notices, how computed
3-l5. Laws of other states and governments how proved

Sec. 342’. Pnfg)c2's lost or tt'2'£/Uzcltl, bow sujiplicd. if ‘an
original pleading or papers be lost or withheld by any person,
the court may authorize a. copy thereof to be filed and used
instead of the original.

Sec. .813. Wlzerc uizcies-~ta.7r;'-izg to» be filed. The various
undertali;in_gs to be given by this act must be filed with the
elerl:-of the court, unless the court expressly provides fora
different disposition thereof, -except that the undertakings provided for by the chapter on the claim and delivery of personal
property, shall, after the »justii’ication of the sureties, be delivered by the sheriff to the parties respectively for Whose benefit they are taken.

Sec. 8i~l-:1. Time for p2tZ;Zz'cata'o7z of 92.otz'ces, how computed.
The time for publication of legal notices shall be computed so
as to exclude the first day of publication and include the day
on Whicli the act or event, of which notice is given, is to happen, or wliich completes the full period required for publication.

See.  Laws of other st‘az‘cs mad governnnrnzts, kow proved. Printed copies in volumes of statutes, or other written
law, enacted by any other State or Territory or foreign govrnment, purporting or proved to have been published by the
authority thereof, or proved to be commonly admitted as evidence of the existing law in the courts andjudicial tribunals of
such State, Territory or government, shall be admitted by the
courts and Territorial officers of this Territory on all occasions

as presurnpsive evidence of such laws. The unwritten or com»
mon law of any other State or Territory, or foreign govern~
ment,rnay be proved asfacts by parole evidence; and the

books of reports of cases a<ljudged_in their courts may also be
admitted as presumptive of such law.

0

TITLE XIII.

' ACTIONS IN PARTICULAR CASES.

CHAPTER I. Actions; against foreign corporations
II. Actionsrin place of sce'r6fac2'as,, guo warranto and of in»
formations in the nature of a quo warranto

TRAP. III. Actions for the partition of real property
IV. Actions to determine coniiicting claims to real property
_ and.for waste and nuisance
V. x__Grenera1 provisions relating to actions concerning real.
P.rQ.Pe1'W r.;

CHAPTER I. »  

AGAINST FOREIGN CORPORATIONS.

Sea. 346. Where and by w/lam Zwougizt. An action against j

. corporation created by or under the laws of any other State
overnment, or country, may be brought in any of the district
onrts of this Tcrritory,«in the following cases:

1. By a resident of this Territory, for any cause of action;

2. By a plaintiii" not a resident of this Territory, when the
ause of action shall have arisen, or the subject of the action
hall be situated within this Territory.

CHAPTER II.‘ ‘

CTIONS IN PLACE OF SCJIRE FACIAS, QUO WARRANTO, AND OF
INFORMATION IN THE NATURE OF QUO WARRANTO.

Section 347. Scircfacias and qua warranto abolished, anal} this chap
ter substituted
348. Action may be brought by direction of the legislature
by any p1'osecuting‘attorz1ey, to vacate a charter
349, Action to annul a corporation, when and how brought
by the prosecuting attorney, by leave of the supreme
court
350. Leave to sue, how obtained
351. ‘Action upon information or complaint of course
352. Action; when anclhow brought to-vacate letters patent
353. Relator, when to be joined as plaintifff .
354. Complaint and arrest of defendant in action for;
usurping an office ‘
355. Judgment in such actions
356; Assumption ofoiiice; &c ,- by relator, whenjudgmentr
is in his favor
357.; Proceedings against a defendant, on his refusal to de.,
‘liver brooks or~papers_ A i

Sncrxox 358. Damages, how recovered
359. One action against several persons claiming office or

franchise
360. Penalty for usurping office or franchise, how awarded

361. Judgment of forfeiture against a corporation
3613. Costs against a corporation or persons claiming to be
such, how collected
363. Restraining corporation, and appointment ofa. receiver
364. Action for forfeiture of property to the people

Sec. 34"’. Scirefacias and qua warranto abolished, and this
chapter substituted. The writ of scire fac-ias, the Writ of qua
warranto, and proceedings by information in the nature of qua
warranto, are abolished; and the remedies heretofore obtainable in those forms may be obtained by civil actions under the
provisions of this chapter. But any proceeding heretofore
commenced, or judgment rendered, or right acquired, shall not
be alfected by such abolition.

Sec. 348. Action may be brought by any prosecuting atuorv
rzey to vacate a charter, l.-y direct-¢'on of the Legislature. An
action may be brought by any prosecuting attorney, in the
name of the people of this Territory, whenever the legislature
shall so direct, against a corporation, for the purpose of vacat-l
ing or annulling the act of incorporation, or an act renewingl
its corporate existence, on the ground that such act or renewal
was procured upon some fraudulent suggestion or concealment
of a material fact, by the person incorporated, or by some of
them, or with their knowledge and consent.

Soc. 349. Action to annzzl a corporation, when and how
i7)~ro«u.ght hy prosecuting attorney/, by leave of sztprcme court. An
action may be brought by any prosecuting attorney, in the name
of the people of this Territory, on leaye granted by the supreme
court or judge thereof, for the purpose of vacating the charter
or annulling the existence of a corporation other than municip~

al, whenever such corporation shall:

1. Offend against any of the provisions of the act or acts
creating, altering, or renewing such corporation; or,

2. Violate the provisions of any law by which such corpo-,
ration shall have forfeited its charter by abuse of its powers

or, ' y

3. Whenever it shall have forfeited its privileges or frana.
chi-ses by failure to exercise its powers; or,
4. Whenever it shall have done or‘ omitted any act which

amounts to a surrender of its corporate rights, privileges, and
franchises; or, ‘

5. Whenever it shall exercise ‘a franchise or privilege not
conferred upon it by lavv. And it shall be the duty of any
prosecuting attorney, Whenever he shall have reason to believe
that any of these acts or omissions can be established by proof
to apply for leave, and upon leave granted to bring the action,
in every case of public interest, and also in every other case in
which satisfactory security shall be given to indemnify the people of this Territory against the costs and expenses to be incurred thereby. A "

Sec. 350‘. Leave, how obtained. Leave to bring the action 1
may be granted upon the application of any prosecuting attore ‘
my; and the court or judge may, at discretion, direct notice
of such application to be given to the corporation or its oliicers,
prevreus to granting such leave, and may hear the corporation
in opposition thereto. _ ,

Sec, 351. Action upon '1"/I/'0'I'772n'Tlt‘t.()?2. or complai-nt of course. ,
An action may be brought by any prosecuting attorney in i the
name of the people ofthis Territory, upon his own information,

or upon the complaint of any private party, against the parties

offending in the following cases ;

1. When any person shall usurp, intrude into, or unlawfully

hold or exercise any public office, civil or military, or any fran-_

chise within this Territory, or any office in a corporation crea~
ted by the authority of his Territory; or,

 When any public officer, civil or military, shall have done
or suEered an act which, by the provisions of law, shall make a
forfeiture of this office; or,

3. \Vhen any association or number of persons shall act with-in this Territory as a corporation, without being duly incorpo-rated.
Sec. 352. Action, when and how brought to vacate lelters
patent. An action may be brought by any prosecuting attorney,

in the name of the people of this Territory, for the purpose of
vacating or annulling letters patent granted by the people of
this Territory, in the following cases:

1. When he shall -have reason to believeithat such ‘letters
patent were obtained by ineans of some fraudulent suggestion
oreoncealnient of a. rnaterial fact, made by the person to whom
the same were issued or made, or with ll1S consent or knowledge; or,

2. Wlhen he shall have reason to believe that such letters
patent were issued through niistal-:0, or in ignorance of a material fact; or,

8. When he shall lave reason to believe that the patentee,
or those claizning under him, liave done or omitted an act, in
violation of the teri’:2S and conditions on which the letters patent were granted, or li-are by any other means forfeited the»iuterest acquired under the same.

Sec. 353. i'.’;‘f’;n‘o9', tr/ic~:i 1'0 be jofizccl as pIazi;z1‘:_'[7". Ylihen
an action shall be brought by the prosecuting attorney by virtue ofthis ell-;.;ptc:', on the relation or inforraation of a. person
ll ring an interest in the question, the name of such person

I ' ' the people as plaintiffl". And in every such
attorney may require as a. condition for

sl1aill':ejoine<; *.«'.~':tn
case the pro::ccutir.g
bringing such action that satisfactory security shall be given to
indeznnify the people of the Territory against the costs and expenses to be incurred hereby.

Eco’. 333-la. Coiiif-§;s;=';zt anal’ a7'rc.s't of (?cy"c~2z(:7czi22t in action.
for 2:.<;iz1f:2'ng an (jinn. \VhoneVc1' such action shall be brought.
against a person for usurpiog an office, the prosecuting attor.
ney,,in addition to the statement ‘of the cause of action, may
also set forth in the complaint the name of the person rightfully
entitled to the on“ioe, with a. statement of his right thereto; and

in such case, upon proof by affidavit that the defendant has re-r ‘

ceived fees or emoluments belonging to the office, and by means

of his usurpation thereof, an order may be granted by a, judge,

of the supreme court for the arrest of such defendant, and
holding him to bail; and thereupon he shall be arrested and
held to bail, in the manner, and with the same effect, and subject to thesame rights and liabilities, as. in other civil actions
Where the defendant is subject to arrest..

Sec. 855. Jztdgiizeizt in such actioiziss ~=;—In every such case,
judgment shall be rendered upon the right of the defendant, and
also upon the right of the party so alleged to be entitled, or
only upon the ri_g'ht of the defenzlant, asjustice shall require.

Sec. 356. Assumption of oyice, gf~c., by relator, when judg~
ment is in his favor. If the judgment be rendered upon the
right of the person so alleged to be entitled, and the same be in“
favor of such person, he shall be entitled, after taking the odth
of office, and executing such oilicial bond as may be required
bylaw, to take upon himself the execution ofthe office; and it
shall be his duty, immediately thereafter, to demand of the
defendant in the action all the books and papers in his custody,

or within his power, belonging to the office from which he shall
have been excluded.‘

Sec. 357. Proceedings against defendant, on refusal to
deliver books or papers. If the defendant shall refuse or
neglect to deliver over. such books or papers, pursuant to the
demand, he shall be deemedguilty of a. misdemeanor, and the
same proceedings shall be had, and with the same effect, to compel delivery of such books and ‘papers, as are or may hereafter
be prescribed by law. i

Sec. 358.‘ Damages how recovered. ’ If judgment be render-.
ed upon the right of the person so alleged to be entitled, in
fa'vor of such person, he may recover, by action, the damages
which -he shall have sustained by reason of the usurpation by
the defendant of the oilicie from which such defendant has been
excluded.

Sec. 359. One action against several persons claiming
ojice or f'ran*c/zise. Where several "persons claim to be entitled
to th_e same office or franchise, one action may be brought
against all such persons, in order to try their respective rights
to such oflicc or franchise. ‘

Sec. 360. a Penalty for usurpjng -ojiice or franchise, how
awarded. When a defendant, whether a natural person or a
corporation, against Whom such action shallhave been brought‘
shall be adjudged guilty of usurping or intruding into, or un~
lawfully holding or exercising any office, franchise, or privilege,
judgment shall be rendered that such defendant be excluded

‘ from such office. franchise or privilege, and also that the plaintifff recover costs against such defendant. The court may also,
‘ in its discretion, fine such ‘defendant asum not exceeding five

hundred dollars‘, which fine, when collected, shall be paid into
the treasury of the Territory.

Sec. 361. Judgment of forfeiture against a corporation.
-If it shall he adjurlgecl that a corporation against which an
action shall have been hrouglit pursuant to this chapter, has by
neglect, abuse, or surrender, fox-feited its corporate rights,
privileges, and franchise, jtzslgznerit shall be rendered that the
corporation be e:<elurle«l from such corporate rights, privileges,
and franchises, and that the corporation be dissolved.

Sec. 362. Costs against corpo:°;"-..io2i, or persons claiming
to be suclz, how collected. -If jndggment be rendered in
such action against a corporation, or against persons claiming
to he a. corporation, the court may cause the costs therein to b9
collected by execution against the persons claiming to be acorporation, or by attachment or process against the directors or
other officers of such corporation.

Sec. 363. Restrai~ning corporation, and appointment of
receiver. When such judgment shall be rendered againsta
corporation, the court sh."~...l~l have the same power to restrain
the corporation to appoint a. receiver of its property, and to
take an account, and make distribution thereofamong its creditors, as are now or may hereafter be -provided by law, and it
shall be the duty of the prosecuting attorney, immediately after the rendition of such jurlgzncnt, to institute proceedings for;
that purpose. ‘

Sec. 364. Actions for forfeiture of property to the people.
Whenever, by the provisions of law, any property, real or per-~
sonal, shall be forfeited to the people of this Territory, or to
any officer for their use, an action for the recovery of such
property, alleging the ground of the forfeiture, may be brought‘
by the proper otliccr, in the district court of the district where!
the property is situated. i

CHAPTER IIL
ACTION son rm: PARTITION or REAL PROPERTY.

Sec. 365. Provisions of crcisting statutes applicable to actions
of partition. The provisions of existing statutes relating
to the partition of lands, tenements, and hereclitamentsj
held or possessed by joint tenants or tenants in ‘common, sha

apply to actions for such partition brought under this act, so

far as the same can be so applied to the substance and subjectmatter of the action, without regard to its form.

CHAPTER. IV.

_AC'1’IONSrT0 DETERMINE CONFLICTING CLAIMS TO REAL PROPERTY,
AND FOR WASTE AND NUISANCE.

Sxc'r1oN 366. Actions to determine claims to real property, how
prosecuted.
367. Action of waste abolished. Waste, how remediable.
368. When judgment of forfeiture and eviction to be
given.
69. Writ of nuisance abolished.
I

. Remedy for injuries heretofore ‘remediable by writ
of nuisance.

C6 C0
G

e t "See. 306. Acffon to cZcternt2‘nc claitns to real property how

proseculwl. Proceedings to compel the determination of claims
to real property, pursuant to the provisions of existing
statutes, may be prosecuted by action under this act, without

regard to the forms of the proceedings as they are prescribed by
those statutes.

Sec. 367. Action of -zcasi.'c aZ2oiZz°s7mr7.‘ Waste, how remediable. The action of waste is abolished, but any proceeding
heretofore commenced, or judgment rendered, or right acquired, shall not be aH’ected thereby. Wrongs heretofore remediable by action of waste are subjects of action as other wrongs,
in which action there may be judgment for damages, forfeiture

of the estate of the party oifending, and eviction from the
premises.

Sec. 368. When juclgmenif offorfeimre and evi'ct2'on to be given.
Judgment of forfeiture and eviction shall only be given in favor of the person entitled ‘to the reversion, against

' the tenant in possession, when the injury to the estate in reversion shall be adjudged in the action to‘ be equal to the value of

the tenant’s estate or unexpired term, or to have been done in
malice. '

Sec. 369. Writ of mufsancc abolished. The writ of nuisance
is abolished; but any proceedings heretofore commenced

or any judgment rendered, or right acquired, shall not be adjected thereby.

Sec. 370. Remedy for injuries heretofore remediable.by~
writ of nuisance. Injuries heretofore remediable by writof
nuisance are subjects of action, as other injuries, and in such
action there may be judgment for .da_mage_s, orforthe, removal.
of the nuisance,‘or both._

‘ CH-APTER V.~

GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATINGJTO ABTIONS CONO-ERNING REAL.
PROPERTY.

Sec. 371. Provisions of e.z~is‘tin_q.sta.tutes appZi“c_a_ble thereto.
The general provisions of existing statutes relating to actions;
concerning real property shall apply to actions brought under
this act, according to thesubject-matter of the action, and:

without regard to its form...

TITLE XIVL"
GENERAL ruovxsrons. — \

Sxcrrox 372. Deiinition of real property
373. Definition of personal property“.

374. Definition of property.

375. Definition of district

376. Definition of ‘clerk

377. Rule of construction

378. Inconsistent statutory provisions. repealed .379. Inconsistent rules and practice abrogated

380. Act, when to take. eifect

Sec. _372. Definition of “reaZpropert,g¢.” The Words “real prop-l
erty,” as used in this act, are co~extensive- with lands, tenements,
and hereditaments.

Sea. 373. Definition of 7 “personal ipropertg/.” The words "personal property,” as used in this act, include money, goods, chattels,

things in action, ,and evidencespofe debt. ‘

Sec. 374. Definition of “property.” The word “property,” asused
in ‘this act, includes property, real and personal.

Sec. ‘.375. Defizzition of “dz'strict." The word “district,” as used
in this act, signifies judicial district, except when otherwise specified.

Sec. 376.~.DefZnz'l2'on of “cleric.” i The word “clerk,” as used in
this act, signifies the clerk of the court where the action is pending.

Sec. 377. Rule of construction. The rule of common law, that;

statutes in derogation of that law are to be strictly construed, has
no application to this act.

Sec. 378. Statutoryprovisions-inconsistent with this act repealed.

'All statutory provisions inconsistent with this act are hereby re- a

pealcd ; but this repeal shall not revive a statute or law which may
have been repealed or abolished by the provisions hereby repealed.
And all rights of actions givven -or secured by existing laws may be
prosecuted in the manner provided by this act. If a case shall arise
in which an action for the enforcement or protection of a right, or
the redress or prevention of a wrong; cannot be had under this act,
the common law practice may be adopted so far asmay be necessary
to prevent a failure of justice.

Sec. 379. Rules and practice inconsistent with this act abrogated.
The present rules and practice of the ‘courts in civil‘ actions, inconsistent with this act, are abrogated; but where consistent with this
act, they shall continue in force, subject to the power of the
respective"courts to relax, modify, or alter the same.

i’ Sec. 380. Act, when to take eject. This act shall take effect and
be in force from and. after the "first ‘day of June, 1868 ; Provided,
That it shall not apply to any a‘ction‘or "proceeding now pending in
any of the courts of this Territory, ‘nor to any actions commenced
-prior to the said 1st day of June 1868, in this Territory.


