TITLE 1.

OF PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO MORE THAN ONE COURT.

Onurrmz 1.—Of disqualification, resignation, death and removal of judges. Sections . . . . . . . . 967-972
2.—Of powers of judges in vacation. Section . . 773
3.—Of judges ad litem. Section . . . . . . . . 774
4.—Of contempts of court. Sections . . . . . . 975, 976
5_.—Of attorneys-at-law. Sections . . ._ . . . . 977-980
6.—Of parties to actions. Sections . . . . . . . 981-997
7.—Of locality of actions. Sections . . . . . . 998-1002
8.—Of consolidation of actions. Section . . . . 1003
9.—-Ofjoinder of causes of actions. Sections . . 1004, 1005

10.—-Of rule days. Section . . . . . . . . . . . 10()6

11.—0f commencement of suits at law. Sections 1007-1027
12.—-Of appearance, the filing of pleadings, defaults, and judgments upon defaults. Secs. 1028-1036

l3.—Of pleadings at law. Sections . . . . . . . 1037-1076
14.—Qf proceedings (other than pleadings) affecting the trial of causes. Sections . . . . . 1077-1093
15.—Of witnesses and evidence. Sections . . . . 1094-1147
l6.—Of jurors. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . 1148-1170
17.—-Of judgments. Sections . . . . . . . . . . 1171-1179
18.—Of motions for new trials, and motions in arrestof judgment. Sections . . . . . . . 1180-1183

19.——Of executions. Sections . . . . . . . . . . 1184-1219

20.—Of Zia pendens. Section . . . . . . . . . . 1220

21.—-Of arbitrators. Sections . . . . . . . . . . 1221-1229

22.—Of referees. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . 1230-1236
23.—()f sheriffs and their relation to civil courts.

Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237-1256
24.—Of constables. Sections . . . . . . . . . . 1257-1261
25.—Of appellate proceedings. Sect-ions . . . . 1262-1279
26.—Of limitations. Sections . . . . . . . . . 1282-1295
27.—Of legal and official advertisements. Sections 1296-1298
28.—Of oaths. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . 1299,1300
29.—Of costs in civil proceedings. Sections . . . 1301-1306

30-01‘ legal time. Section . . . . . . . . . . 1307

CHAPTER I.

OF DISQUALIFICATION, RESIGNATION, DEATH AND REMOVAL OF

JUDGES.
ARTICLE 1.—Disqualification of judges. Sections . . . . . . . . 967-970
2.—Resignation, death and removal of judges. Sections . . 971, 972
ARTICLE 1.

DIBQUALIFICATION OF JUDG%.

967. What are disqualiilcations.-—No judge of any court
shall sit or preside in any cause to which he is a party or in
which he is interested, or in which he Would be excluded from
being a juror by reason of interest, consanguinity or aflinity to
either of the parties; nor shall he entertain any motion in the
cause other than to have the same tried by a qualified tribunal.

Character of interest disqualifying aSauls v. Freeman, 24 Fla., 209. Decision of judge as to his, not reviewable  mandamus.—State v. Van Ness, 15 Fla.,
3317.

968. ‘What are not disqualifications.—No judge shall be disqualified from sitting in the trial of any suit in which any county

or municipal corporation is a party, by reason that such judge is
a resident or tax-payer Within such county or municipal corporation.

969. Retirement of disijualifled judge.—The judge so disqualified shall retire of his own motion, and without waiting for

an application to that effect.

970. Efect of his action.—Any and all judgments, decrees
and orders, except an order for the trial of the cause as hereinbefore provided, made by a judge so disqualified, shall be of no
force or validity, and shall be null and void.

Can party waive disqualification of judge ?-—Ochus v. Sheldon, 12 Fla., 138.

ARTICLE 2. ’

REIGNATION, DEATH, OR REMOVAL OF JUDGE.

971. Disposition of matters pending.—Upon the resignation.
death or impeachment of any judge, all matters pending before

him shall be heard and determined by his successor, and parties
making any motion before such judge shall suffer no detriment
by reason of his resignation, death or impeachment.

972. Disposition of papers in matters pending.—A11judgeS.
other than justices of the peace, when they resign or are convicted on impeachment, shall file all the papers pending before
them with the clerk of the court in which the cause is pending,
and the executor or administrator of any judge who dies pending
any matter before him, shall file all papers found among the
papers of his intestate or testator, with the persons mentioned.

CHAPTER II.

POVVERS OF JUDGES IN VACATION.

973. Powers of judges in vacation.—The judges of the several courts are hereby authorized and empowered to exercise in

vacation any jurisdiction or power they a.re now authorized and
empowered to exercise in term time; but when the exercise of
such power shall require the intervention of a jury it shall not be
exercised except in cases specially provided, unless all parties
agree in Writing to waive a jury.

This section shall not be construed to require any judge to go
out of the county in which he may be during vacation.

CHAPTER III.

OF JUDGES AD LITEM.

974. In circuit and county courts.—When, from any cause,
the judge of a circuit or county court is disqualified from presiding in any civil cause, the parties may agree upon an attorney at
law, which agreement shall be entered upon the record of said
cause, who shall be judge ad litem, and shall preside over the trial
of, and make orders in said cause, as if he were the judge of the
court.

Nothing in this section shall prevent the parties from transferring the cause to another circuit or county court, as the case
may be, or they may have the case submitted to a referee.

CHAPTER IV.

CONTEMPTS OF COURT.

976. Power to punish.-—Every court shall have power to
punish contempts against it, but the punishment imposed by a
justice of the peace shall not exceed $20 fine or twenty-four hours
imprisonment. ‘

976. Gontempts deflned.—A refusal to obey any legal order;
mandate or decree, made or given by any judge either in term

time or in vacation relative to any of the business of said court,
after due notice thereof, shall be considered a contempt, and punished accordingly. But nothing said or Written, or published, in
vacation, to or of any judge, or of any decision made by a judge
shall in any case be construed to be a contempt.

 

Punishment for contempt, not reviewable on appeal.—Caro v. Maxwell, 20
Fla., 17 ; ea: parte Edwards, 11 Fla., 174.

CHAPTER V. "

ATTORN EYS-AT-LAW’.

977. Any one may be his own attorney.—-Any person may
manage his own cause in any of the courts of this State.

978. Who may be attorney for others.-—Neither marshals.
sheriffs, clerks of court, and their deputies, nor any person convicted of an infamous crime shall practice law in any court in
this state; nor shall any person so practice unless he shall have
procured a license so to do from a judge of a circuit court of this
State under his hand (and the seal of a circuit court in his
circuit) or shall have been admitted to practice in one of the circuit courts of the United States, or in a supreme court of one of
the United States. The -license (or certificate of his admission
to practice in a United States circuit court or supreme court of
another state) shall be entered upon the minutes of the court
in which the attorney Wishesto practice, and the originalshall
be returned to him. ’

979. How a license is obtainable.—Before any person shall
obtain a license to practice law, he shall

1. Satisfy, by satisfactory evidence, the judge of the circuit

court to whom he may make application that he is twenty-one

years of age, and of good moral character; and

2. Shall upon an examination by the judge, or, if for any cause
a personal examination be inconvenient to the judge, by two
members of the bar appointed by the judge, demonstrate his
possession of the qualifications so to practice; and

3. Shall have taken an oath (before the clerk of a circuit court)
to support the constitutions of the State of Florida and the United
States, and honestly to demean himself in his profession, and
exercise the duties thereof to the best of his skill and abilities.

The report by the members of the bar appointed as above
that the applicant is qualified shall be as effectual as though the
examination had been conducted by the judge in person. The
license shall be to practice in the several circuits of this State.

980. Refusal to pay over collect-.ions.—If any attorney shall
collect money for his employers and refuse to pay it over on demand, he shall be stricken from the list of attorneys, and shall
not be allowed to practice within this State until he shall pay
over the money to his client or legal representative, and he shall
also be liable to a suit for the same, and subject to a penalty of
ten per cent. for every month he shall detain the same after a demand regularly made.

Disbarment of attorneys; pleadings and practice.—-State ex rel. v. Maxwell,
19 Fla., 31; State ex rel. v. Kirk, 12 F 19... 278. How order of disbarment reviewed.—Ib. County court may disbar.—Ib.

CHAPTER VI.

OF PARTIES TO SUITS AT LAW.

ARTICLE 1.—By whom suit may be brought. Sections . . . . . . 981-983
2.—Non-joinder and misjoinder of plaintifffs. Sections . . 984, 985
3.—Non-joinder and misjoinder of defendants. Sections. 986-988
4.—Abatement and change of parties by death. Sections . 989-995

5.—Abatement by marriage. Section’ . . . . . . . . . 996
6.—Abatement of suits against counties. Section . . . . 997
ARTICLE 1.

BY WHOM SUIT MAY BE BROUGHT.

981. Real‘ parties in interest.~Any civil action at law may
be maintained in the name of the real party in interest. This shall
not be deemed to authorize the assignment of a thing in action
not arising out of contract. An executor, administrator, trustee
of an express trust (including a person with whom or in whose
name a contract is made for the benelit of another or a person expressly authorized by statute), may sue without joining with him
the person for whose benefit the action is prosecuted.

Fm Asssignee of insolvent is “trustee of express trust.”—Robinson v. Nix, 22
, 21.

982. Infants, lunatics, etc.—An infant may sue by his next
friend in all cases whatsoever, and idiots and lunatics by their
guardians.

Before any suit be brought by the next friend, it shall be his
duty to file bond and security with the court, conditioned to appropriate the amount which may be recovered in said suit (after

the expenses of recovering the same are paid), to the use and benefit of said infant.

Omiion to give bond not assignable as error by defendant.—Neal v.
Spooner, 20 F 1a., 38. Bond required only in common law roceedings.—Pace v.
Pace, 19 Fla., 438, overruling.—Sanderson v. Sanderson, 17 1a., 820.

983. By sureties against each other, etc.——When any person
shall execute any bond, note, draft, or bill of exchange in this

State, and any two or more persons shall also execute the same

jointly with him, and merely as his sureties, or shall endorse any
note, or draft or bill of exchange, as sureties for the maker or
drawer thereof, and for his accommodation, and Without any consideration, said persons shall be bound each to the other for a proportional contribution of the amount of said bond, note, draft or
bill of exchange; and if any one or more of said persons be compelled to pay any part of said bond, note, draft or bill of exchange, he or they shall have his or their remedy by suit against

‘his or their co-surety or co-sureties for contribution, and may sue

separately or jointly to enforce the payment of the same; and
the defendants, if more than one, may be sued separately or jointly, and where it may be necessary the person claiming such contribution may proceed by attachment as in other cases.

ARTICLE 2.

NON-JOINDER AND MISJOINDER OF PLAINTIFFS AND REMEDIIE THEREFOR.

984. Remedy before trial for non-joinder and misjoinder of
pla.i'ntiE8.—It shall be the duty of the court, at any time before

the trial of any cause, to order that any person not joined as
plaintifff in such cause, shall be so joined; or that any person
originally joined as plaintifff shall be struck out from such cause,
if it shall appear to such court or judge that injustice will not be
done by such amendment, and that the person to be added as
aforesaid consents, either in person or by writing or by attorney, to
be so joined, or that the person to be struck out as aforesaid consents in manner aforesaid to be struck out; and such amendment

-shall be made upon such terms as to the amendment of the pleadings (if any), postponement of the trial and otherwise as the court
by which such amendment is made shall think proper, and when
any such amendment shall have been made, the liability of any
person who shall bave been so added as co-plaintifff shall, subject
to any terms imposed as aforesaid, be the same as if such person
had been originally joined in such cause.

If before plea the defendant shall give notice to the plaintifff
in writing that he objects to a non-joinder or misjoinder of any
person specifying the name of the person not joined or misjoined,
or shall file a plea in abatement of non-joinder or misjoinder, in
cases where such plea in abatement may be pleaded by the defendant, the plaintifff shall be at liberty, without any order, to
amend the writ and other proceedings before plea by striking out
or adding the name of the person named in such notice or plea in
abatement, and to proceed in the action Without any further appearance, on payment of the costs of, and occasioned by, such
amendment only, and in such case the defendant shall be at liberty to plead de novo.

985. Remedy at the trial for non-joinder or misjoinder of a
'pla.intif.—In case it shall appear at the trial of any action that

there has been a misjoinder of plaintifffs, or that some person not
joined as plaintifff ought to have been so joined, and the defendant shall not, at or before the time of pleading, have given notice
in writing, as provided in section 984, that he objects to such
non-joinder or misjoinder, such non-joinder or misjoinder may be
amended at the trial by the court, if it shall appear to such court
or judge that such non-joinder or misjoinder was not for the purpose of obtaining an undue advantage, and that justice will be
done by such amendment, and that the person to be added as
aforesaid consents, either in person or by attorney, to be so joined,
or that the person to be struck out as aforesaid was originally
introduced without his consent, or that such person consents in
manner aforesaid to be so struck out; and such amendment shall
be made upon such terms as the court or judge by whom such
amendment is made shall think proper; and when any amendment shall have been made, the liability of any person who shall
have been added as co-plaintifff shall, subject to any terms imposed as aforesaid, be the same as if such person had been originally joined in such action.

ARTICLE 3.

NON-JOINDER AND MISJOINDEB OF DEFELIDANTB AND REMEDIE THEREFOR.

986. Remedy at and before trial for misjoinder of a defendant.~It shall be the duty of the court, in case of the

joinder of too many defendants in any action, at any time
before the trial of such cause, to order the name of the misjoined defendant to be struck out, if it shall appear to such court
that injustice will not be done by such amendment; and the
amendment shall be made upon such terms as the court by whom
the amendment is made shall think proper; and in case it shall
appear at the trial of any action that there has been a misjoinder
of any defendants, such misjoinder may be amended at the trial
in like manner as the misjoinder of plaintifffs has been heretofore
directed to be amended, and upon such terms as the court by
whom such amendment is made shall think proper.

987. Remedy after plea in abatement.—Where the nonjoinder of any person as a co-defendant has been pleaded in

abatement, the plaintifff shall be at liberty, Without any order, to
amend the writ of summons and the declaration by adding the
name of the person named in such plea in abatement, and to
proceed against the original defendant and the person so named
in such plea in abatement.

The date of such amendment shall, as between the person so
named in such plea in abatement and the plaintifff, be considered
for all persons as the commencement of the action

988. Effect of amendment after plea in abatement for nonjoinder of a defendant.—After such plea in abatement, and
amendment, if it shall appear upon the trial of the action that the
person so named in such plea in abatement was jointly liable
with the original defendant, the original defendant shall be entitled to the costs of such plea in abatement; but if at the trial
it shall appear that the original defendant is liable, but that one
or more of the person or persons named in such plea in abatement is or are not liable, the plaintifff shall nevertheless be entitled to judgment against the other defendant or defendants, who
shall appear to be liable; and every defendant who is not so liable shall have judgment, and shall be entitled to his costs
against the plaintifff, who shall be allowed the same, together with
the costs of the plea in abatement and amendment, as costs in the
cause against the original defendant or defendants who shall have
so pleaded in abatement the non-joinder of such person; but
any such defendant who shall have so pleaded in abatement shall
be at liberty on the trial to adduce evidence of the liability of
the‘ defendants named by him in such plea in abatement.

 

Non-joinder of defendant cannot ‘be taken advantage of as variance at
trial.—Harley’s extr. v. Roche, 6 Fla., 746. '

ARTICLE 4.

ABATEMENT AND CHANGE OF PARTIE BY DEA'l‘Ho

989. Suits for personal injm-ies.—:All actions for personal injuries shall die with the person, to-wit: Assault and battery,

slander, false imprisonment, and malicious prosecution; all other
actions shall and may be maintained in the name -of the representatives of the deceased.

Ap lied to suit for libe1—Jones v. Townsend, 23 F1a., 355. And to injury to
rai passenger.—Jacksonville Street Railway Co. v. Chappell, 22 Fla., 616.

990. Death of a sole plaintiff.—In case of the death of a sole
plaintifff, where the action survives, the legal representative of
such plaintifff may by leave of the court or a judge file in the
cause a suggestion that the plaintifff is dead, and that he is legal
representative, and the action shall thereupon proceed in his
name. If such suggestion is made before trial, the truth of the
suggestion, if denied by the defendant, shall be tried thereat, together with the right of the deceased plaintifff, and such judgment shall follow upon the verdict in favor of or against such
person making such suggestion, as if such person were originally
the plaintifff.

Revivor does not give defendant further time for pleading and trial.——Parker
v. Hendry, 8 F1a., 53. '

991. Death of sole defendant.—In case of the death of a sole
defendant, or sole surviving defendant, where the action survives,

the plaintifff may file in the cause a suggestion thatthe defendant

is dead, and that a person named therein is executor or administrator of the deceased, and may thereupon serve such executor or
administrator of the deceased with a copy of the suggestion, and
with a notice requiring such executor or administrator to appear,
and that in default of his so doing, the plaintifff will sign judgment against him as such executor or administrator; and the
same proceedings may be had and taken in case of non-appearance after such notice as upon a writ against such executor or
administrator in respect of the cause for which the action was
brought; the new defendant may‘ be permitted to plead such
pleas as the original defendant might have done, and also such
pleas as may be appropriate and rendered necessary by his character as executor or administrator, and in case the plaintifff shallrecover, he shall be entitled to like judgment as in action originally commenced against the executor or administrator; and
when any defendant shall die, and there is no administration on
his estate in the county where such suit was pending, but is in
some other county, the notice may be served upon the administrator or executor in such other county. The executor or administrator of such decedent may be ma.de a party upon his suggestion.

992. Death of co-plaintifff or co-defendant.~If there be two
or more plaintifffs or defendants and one or more of them should

die, if the cause of action shall survive to the surviving plaintifff,
or against the surviving defendant, the action shall not th reby
be abated ; but a suggestion of such death having been Ii ed in
the cause, the action shall proceed at the suit of the surviving
plaintifff against the surviving defendant. 993. Death of a co-partner.—A suggestion of the death of
any co-partner of a mercanfile or other firm during the pendency

of any suit, either in favor of or against said firm, may be filed in
the cause, and the cause shall proceed in the name of the survivor

or survivors.
Applied  a case of tort.—Bucki v. Cone, 25 Fla., 1.

994. Death of party after verdiet.—The death of either party between the verdict and judgment and the issuing or return of

execution shall not be alleged for error.

995. Death of party after interlocutory judgment.—If the
plaintifff die after an interlocutory judgment, and before final judgment therein, such action shall not abate by reason thereof, is such
action might be originally prosecuted or maintained by the executor or administrator of. such plaintifff; and -if the defendant die
after such interlocutory judgment, and before final judgment obtained therein, the said action shall not abate, if such action might
be originally prosecuted and maintained against the executor or
administrator of such defendant; and the plaintifff, or if he be dead,
his executor or administrator, may have a writ of sci. fa. against
the defendant if living, or if he be dead, then against his executor
or administrator, to show cause why damages in such action should
not be assessed and recovered by him; and if the defendant, or, if

dead, his executor or administrator, shall fail to show cause, judgment final shall be given for the said plaintifff, his executor or administrator, prosecuting such writ against such defendant, his executor or administrator, respectively.

Death of defendant before judgment does not render judgment void.—-Co1lins v. Mitchell, 5 F1a., 364. Revivor of suit abated b death can be had only after appointment of representative.—Brett v. Ming, 1 1a., 447.

ARTICLE 5.

ABATEMENT BY MARRIAGE. -.

996. Marriage of a woman, plaintiff or defendant.—The
marriage of a woman, plaintifff or defendant, shall not cause the

action to abate, but the action may, notwithstanding, be proceeded with to judgment; and such judgment shall be rendered
against or for the wife alone, and the execution thereon be levied
upon her property alone. In case of a judgment for the wife,
execution may issue thereon by the authority of the husband
without suggestion.

ARTICLE 6.

ABATEMENT OF SUITS AGAINST COUNTIES.

997.~See section 580.

CHAPTER VII.

LOCALITY OF ACTIONS.

998. Where suits may be begun.—Suits shall be begun only
in the county (or if the suit is in a justice of the peace court in

the justice’s district) where the defendant resides, or where the
cause of action accrued, or where the property in litigation is.

If brought in any county or justice’s district where the defendant does not reside, the plaintifff, or some person in his behalf, shall make and file with the pmvcipe or bill in chancery, an
affidavit that the suit is brought in good faith, and with no intention to annoy the defendant. This section shall not apply to
suits against non-residents.

Applied to an action on the case.—Bucki v. Cone, 225 Fla., 1. Discussed.Russ v. Mitchell, 11 Fla., 80. Does not ayipl to alien enemies.—Ib. Relates to
cause of action and not to right to sue.— c ougal v. Lea, 2 Fla., 532.

999. Suits against defendants residing in diiferent counties
or districts.——Suits against two or more defendants residing in

different counties (or justices’ districts may be brought in any
county (or district) in which any defen ant resides.

1000. Suits upon several causes of action.—Suits upon several causes of action may be brought in any county (or justices’

district) where either of the causes of action arose.

1001. Suits against corporations.—-Suits against domestic
corporations shall be commenced only in the county (or justice’s

district) where such corporation shall have or usually keep an
office for the transaction of its customary business; and in the
case of companies incorporated by other states or countries, and
doing business in this State, suits shall be commeneed in a county
or justice’s district wherein such c'oInpany may have an agent or
other representative.

Ob'ection that suit is in wrong county is too late aiier verdict.—Edwards v.
Union 1:, 1 Fla., 136.

1002. Jurisdiction over navigable waters.—Whenever the
territorial jurisdiction of any court in any county shall extend to

one bank of any navigable water, such court shall have jurisdiction across such navigable water from shore to shore; and if the
territorial jurisdiction" of different courts, Whether of the same
county or not, extend to opposite banks of any navigable water,
such courts shall have concurrent jurisdiction across said navigable water from shore to shore.

Fla Venue may be laid in margin of declaration.—Temple v. F. L. & I. Co., 23

CHAPTER VIII.

CONSOLIDATION OF ACTIONS.

1003. Consolidation of actions.—Where there are more persons than one bound on any bond, promissory note or other contract, Whether they be bound as original obligors, sureties or‘

endorsers, and the plaintifff shall institute more suits than one
upon such bond, note or contract, the suits shall be, in the discretion of the court, consolidated in cases where consolidation is
practicable and in accordance with the principles of law, and
only the costs of one suit shall be taxed in the bill of costs.

Consolidation consented to cannot afterwards be objected to.—Rau1erson v.
Rochner’s admx., 17 Fla., 809.

CHAPTER IX.

JOINDER OF CAUSES OF ACTION.

1004. What causes may be joined.—Causes of action, of
whatever kind, by and against the same parties in the same

rights, may be joined in the same suit, except that replevin and
ejectment shall not be joined together nor with other causes of
action.

When two or more causes of action so joined arise in different counties, the venue may be ‘laid in either of such counties,
but the court shall have power to prevent the trial of different
causes of action together, if such trial would be inexpedient, and
in such cases such court may order separate records to be made
up and separate trials to be had.

Separation of causes in sound discretion of lower court.—Jefferson County v.
Hawkins, 23 Fla. 223. Venue may be laid in county where action is brought.Temple v. F. L. & 1. C0,, 1b., 400.

1005. Action by man and wife.~In any action brought ’by
a man and his wife for an injury done to the wife, in respect of

which she is necessarily joined as co-plaintifff, the husband may
add thereto claims in his own right, and separate actions brought
in respect of such claims may be consolidated if the court shall
think fit. In case of the death of either plaintifff, such suit, so
far as it relates to the causes of action, if any, which do not survive, shall abate, but to that extent only.

CHAPTER X.

RULE DAYS.

1006. Rule da.ys.—Appearance terms are abolished. The
first Mondays of each month are designated as rule days for the

‘circuit and county courts, and the first and third Mondays in

each month as rule days for the courts of justices of the peace,
and of county judges as 0.2:-o_1?icz'o justices of the peace.

Upon its rule days every court shall be deemed to be open
and in session, at the clerk’s office, or if the court have-no clerk,
then at the judge’s office, for the return of writs and process, for
the entry of defaults and judgments by default, and also for the
purpose of receiving, entertaining and disposing of all matters,
rules, orders and other interlocutory proceeding which parties
may make or apply for, and which, by the practice of the court,
may be entered of course," or which are granted without the
special order of the judge. ' v

CHAPTER XI.

COMMENCEMENT OF SUITS AT LAW.

Arman 1.—How suits are begun. Section . . . . . . . . 1007

2.—Process, form of. Sections . . . . . . . . . 1008-1011

‘3.—How returnable. Section . . . . . . . . . . 1012

4.—When to be served. Section .4 . . . . . . . 1013

5.—By whom served. Section . . . . . . . . . 1014

6.—How served. Sections . . . . . . . . - . . 1015-1024

7.—Service on Sunday. Section. . .  . . . . 1025

8.—Return of. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . 1026-1027
ARTICLE 1.

HOW SUITS ARE BEGUN.

1007. How suits are begun.—‘A personal suit at law is begun
by filing in the court in which the suit is to be commenced a pmcipe or memorandum, stating the names of the parties, the nature
of the action and the amount of the debt or damages for which
plaintifff sues; which prazcipe shall be signed by the plaintifff or his
attorney. Upon the tiling of such praeccipe or memorandum there
shall be issued from such court a summons ad rcspondendum,

which shall be called the original.

Writ should state individual names of partners.—Richardson v. Smith, 21
Fla. 336. Remedy for variance between writ and c0py.—Tidwell v. Withergpoon, 18 Fla., 282. When a common law suit is nding.—Thebaut v. Canova, 11

1a., 143. Effect of pendency.—Ib. Variance tween damages stated in, and
in declaration, not ground of error.—McKay v. Friebele, 8 Fla., 21. Summons
should state amount claimed, but omission to do so does not avoid it.—Campbell
v. Chaffee, 6 Fla., 724. Remedy for defect in, ap arent on face and dehors.—Ib.
Mistake in date waived by appearance, etc.—Woo v. Bank, 1 Fla., 378.

ARTICLE 2.

PROCES, FORM OF‘.

1008. Teste and date.—A11 process shall run in the name of
the State of Florida, and shall bear teste in the name of the clerk
or judge issuing it, be signed by said clerk or judge, and bear date
when issued, and when not otherwise provided by law, shall be
made returnable to the next ensuing rule day of the court from
which it issued.

See as to subpoena and summons in behalf of State.—Chapter 4027, section 1,
Act May 4, 1891, Ap ndix. Running in name of State of Florida defined.State v. Gleason, 12 1a., 190.

1009. Hot necessary to mention form of action in.—It shall
not be necessary to mention any form of action in any writ of

summons issued from the courts of this State.

1010. Remedy for mistake in form of writ.—If one form of
writ of summons shall by mistake or inadvertence be substituted

for another, such mistake or inadvertence shall not be an objection to the writ or any other proceeding in such action, but the
writ may, upon an ea: parte application to the court, Whether before
or after any application to set aside such writ or any proceeding
thereon, and whether the same shall have been served or not, be
amended bv such court without costs.

1011. Xgainst corporations.—In all actions against any corporation, it shall be sufficient to issue a summons to the proper
oiiicer, commanding him to summon the said corporation, by its
corporate name, to appear and answer the action on the proper
return day, which summons shall be returnable in the manner
and subject to the same rules and regulations as other process.

Suit by wrong name; remedy.—L’Eng1e v. F. C. & W. R. R. Co., 21 Fla., 353.

 

Waiver of process; effect of.—Ochus v. Sheldon, 12 F1a., 138.

ARTICLE 3.

PROCESS, HOW RETURNABLE.

1012. Process, how returnable.—All writs of process, upon
the institution of any suit, shall be made returnable to the next

rule day thereafter, unless there shall not be ten days intervening
between the day of the issuing of the same and the next rule day,
in which case the same shall be made returnable to the rule day
in the next succeeding month.

ARTICLE 4.

PROCES, VVIIEN TO BE SERVED.

1013. When to be served.—All process upon the institution
of a suit shall be served at least ten (10) days before the rule day

to which it is made returnable.

ARTICLE 5.

PROCESS, BY VVIIOM FJERVED.

1014. Process, by whom served.-—A11 process, except that
issuing from a justice of the peace court, shall be served by the
sheriff of the county in which it is to be served. Process of a
justice of the peace court may be served by a ‘sheriff of the county

or by a constable. In cases where the sheriff is interested, and
in case of necessity, the judge of the circuit court may appoint
an elisor to act instead of the sheriff.

All writs or process issued upon the institution of a suit which
may be begun in a county where the defendant does not reside,
and all writs, process or notices requiring service upon a defendant not in the county where the suit is pending, may be served by
the sheriff of the county in which the defendant is to be found.

When officer protected in service of process.—'—Camp v. Moseley, 2 Fla., 171.

ARTICLE 6.

l’R0(fI~)l8, HOW SERV El).

1015. Generally.—Service of the original writ or summons
shall be effected by reading the writ or summons to the person to
be served, or by delivering him a copy thereof, or leaving such
copy at his usual place of abode with some person of the family

above fifteen years of age, and informing such person of the contents thereof. '

1016. Upon defendant removing from county.-—If the defendant shall remove out of the county where an action has been

commenced, and the officer to whom the process was directed
shall so return, it shall be lawful to issue an alias writ or summons, and every other legal process necessary to enforce the appearance of such defendant, directed to the proper officer of any
county in this State.

1017. Upon a copartnership.—When any original process is
sued out against several persons composing a mercanfile or other
firm, the service of said process on any one member of said firm
shall be as valid as if served upon each individual member there, of ; and the plaintifffpmay, after service upon any one member

as aforesaid, proceed to judgment and execution against them all.

Fla Such service binds only those actually partners.—Purviance v. Edwards, 17
., 140.

1018. Upon a non-resident administrator.—Service upon any
legally authorized and publicly known agent of any executor or
administrator who resides or has removed beyond the limits of
this State, shall be as valid as if it had been made upon the person of said executor or administrator.

1019. Upon a private corporation.—Process against a corporation, domestic or foreign, may be served: '

1. Upon the president or vice-president or other head of the
corporation. In the absence of such head:

2. Upon the cashier or treasurer, or secretary, or general manager; or, in.the absence of all of the above:

3. Upon any director of such company; or, in the absence of
all of the above:

4. Upon any business agent resident in the county in which
the action is brought.

5. ‘If a foreign corporation shall have none of the foregoing
officers or agents in this State, service may be made upon any
agent transacting business for it in this State.

1020. Upon an incorporated college or academy.—P1-ocess
against an incorporated college or academy may be served upon
the president, or chief officer, or any visitor or trustee thereof.

1021. Upon a municipal corp0ration.—Process against a municipal corporation may be served:
(a) Upon the mayor or chief magistrate ; or, in his absence:
(b) Upon the recorder; or, in the absence of all the above:
(c) Upon any alderman, or equivalent officer.
. Service upon any officer of a municipal corporation shall be
good only when made While he is in the limits of such corporation.

1022. Upon a county.~Process against a county shall be _

served upon the chairman of the board of county commissioners,
or, in his absence, upon two other members of said board.

1023. Effect of service upon a corporation.—After service

' upon a corporation, the same proceedings to final judgment shall

be had against such corporation as are had in other suits at law
after the return of execution of summons ad re.~q>ondendum.

1024. Service upon domestic corporation in the absence of
officers or a.gents.~When process against any corporation of this

State cannot be served owing to the failure of said corporation to
elect officers or appoint agents, their absence. from the State for
the period of six months before the issuing of said writ, or because they are unknown, it shall be the duty of the officer to
return said writ, with the causes of his inability to serve the same,
and upon the return of said writ as aforesaid, the judge of the
court from which the same shall have issued shall make an order
at any time, setting forth the names of the parties, the nature of
the action, suit or other proceeding, the court in which the same
has been instituted, and requiring the said corporation to appear
and defend the said action, suit or other proceeding, and the
publication of said order once a.week for the space of two months
in some newspaper published in the county in which said action,
suit or other proceeding shall be instituted, shall be a full and
sufficient notification to the said corporation of the institution of
said action, suit or other proceeding. However no judgment by
default or decree pro co/nfcsso shall be taken or rendered against
said corporation until due proof shall have been made of the
publication of said order, as hereinbeforc provided.

ARTICLE 7.

PROC3, SERVICE OF ON SUNDAY.

1025. Process, service of on 8unday.—Service or execution
upon Sunday, of any writ, process or warrant, order, judgment
or decree, shall be void to all intents and purposes whatever; and
the person so serving or executing, or causing to be served or excuted, the same shall be liable to the suit of the party aggrieved,
and to answer damages to him for so doing, as if he had done
the same Without any process, Writ, warrant, order, judgment or
decree: However, if information shall be made by the oaths of
two respectable persons to any judge or justice of the peace or
magistrate of any corporate town, that they have good reason to
believe that any person liable to have any such process, Warrant,
order, judgment or decree served upon him intends to withdraw
himself, and escape from this State under cover of protection of
Sunday, any officer duly authorized may, being furnished with a
certificate of such information upon oath as aforesaid, under the
hand of the judge, justice of the peace or magistrate, as aforesaid, serve or execute such process, warrant, order, judgment or
decree, on Sunday, which shall be as valid and effectually done,

to all legal intents and purposes, as if the same had been done
on any other day of the week.

ARTICLE 8.

RETURN OF‘ PROCESS.

1026. Return of execution of process.—Al1 oiiicers towhom
process shall be directed shall note upon the same the time when

it comes to hand, the time when it was executed, the manner of
execution, and the name of the person upon whom it shall be
executed, and if such person be served in a representative capacity, the position occupied by him. A failure to set forth the foregoing facts shall invalidate the service, but the return shall be
amendable so as to state the truth at any time upon application
to the court from which the process issued, and upon such amendment the service shall be as effective as if the return had originally stated such facts. A failure to state said facts in the return
shall subject the oiiicer so failing to a line not exceeding ten dollars, at the discretion of the court. 1

1027. Return of non-execution of process.——When an officer
shall, for any cause, fail to execute process directed to him, he
shall return the same “not executed,” with the reason for such
failure; and if such reason be insufficient, he shall be liable to a
fine of not exceeding fifty dollars, at the discretion of the court;

and shall also be liable to the party injured for all costs and damages thereby incurred and sustained.

Effect of return.—Tidwell v. Witherspoon, 18 Fla., 283. How return must
gig made; proper return necessary to jurisdict1on.—Standley v. Arnow, 13 Fla.,
1.

CHAPTER XII.

APPEARANCE, FILING OF PLEADINGS, DEFAULTS, AND JUDGMENT8
UPON DEFAULTS.

ARTICLE 1.—Time of entering appearance. Section . . . . . . 1028
2.—Time for filing pleadings. Sections . . . . . . . . 1029-1031
3.—Entering and opening defaults. Sections . . . . .1032—1034

4.—Entering final judgment upon default. Sections . 1035, 1036

ARTICLE 1.

TIME OF ENTERING APPEARANCE.

1028. Time of entering appearance.—The defendant shall
enter his appearance on the return day of the writ or summons,
but he shall not be compelled to enter it until the declaration be
filed. He may appear at any time before entry of default for not
appearing, but shall not be entitled to any further time for pleading or other proceedings than if he had appeared within the appointed time.

A pearance; clerk’s memorandum of, as against attorney's contradiction.Tidwe l v. Withers n 18 Fla., 282. General ap rance waives defect in service of writ.—-Smit v. Bulkley, 15 Fla., 64; Flori a Railroad Com ny v. Geneler, 14 Fla., 122. Effect of a pearance (and relief against) by unaut orized attorney.—Budd v. Gamble, 13 a., 265. Appeal by defendant eguivalent to appearance.—Standley v. Arnow, 13 Fla., 361. s entry by clerk, “ ‘ame the parties by

their attorneys,” evidence of appearance of parties ?—Butler v. Thom n, 2 Fla.,

9. Effect of entry on (locket by clerk.—-Wood v. Bank, 1 Fla., 378. pecial apearance; waiver of defect in service, whcn.—Stephens v. Bradle 24 Fla. 201.
hen not; instance of.—Tidwell v. Witherspoon, 18 Fla., 282. aiver of special a pearance by contesting merits.—-Scarlett v. Hicks, 13 Fla., 314. Appearance or purpose of ob'ecting to proceedings does not necessarily waive irregularities in process.—Stan ley v. Arnow, 13 F1a.,361.

ARTICLE 2.

TIME FOR FILING PLEADINGS.

1029. Time of Sling declaration.—The plaintifff shall file his
declaration on or before the rule day to which the process is

made returnable, or on or before the next succeeding rule day,
unless further time be allowed by the court.

1630. Time for filing pleas and demm'rer.—The defendant
shall file his plea or demurrer on the rule day succeeding that
upon which the declaration is filed, unless, upon motion, further
time be given by the court. He may plead, answer, or demur at

~ any time before default for not so doing.

1031. Time for nling replication.—Replications shall be filed
at the rule day next succeeding that upon which the plea shall

have been filed; but all issues shall be made up by the first day
of the next succeeding term, and within such period from the filing of the plea, and as to the tiling of the replication and other
pleadings, as may be provided for by the rules of court existing,
or which may be adopted.

ARTICLE 3.

ENTRY AND OPENING OF DEFAULT8.

1032. Entry upon rule days.——If the defendant shall fail to
appear as hereinbefore provided, or shall fail to plead or demur
at the time hereinbefore provided, or at the time fixed by the
court upon motion as hereinbefore provided, the plaintifff may
cause ‘a default to be entered by the clerk against the defendant,
and thereupon he may proceed to take final judgment, as hereinafter provided.

To be entered only on proofs filed, which record must show.-—Snell v.
Irvine, 17 Fla., 234. Not proper for want of replication upon overrulin demurrer to lea. What proper practice.—Wade v. Doyle, 17 Fla., 522. ot to
be entered or want of plea, when good plea in cause.—Hooker v. Gallagher, 6
Fla., 351. Judgment by default u n sustaining demurrer to pleas, erroneous.L’En le v. L’E le. 19 Fla., 714; ettys v. Marsh, 24 Fla., 44. May be entered
on 4t of J ulv.— use v. Gilbert, 19 Fla., 54.

1033. Entry in term time.—In all cases standing upon the
docket at the calling of the same, to which there is no plea or
demurrer filed, the court shall, upon motion of the plaintifff or
his attorney, give a default, and may immediately refer the same
to a jury to assess the damages; but if the said action be founded
upon any of the demands mentioned in section 1035, the court
may direct the clerk, or the court may itself if it has no clerk,
proceed to assess the damages and enter judgment and to issue
execution accordingly.

Dehult for want of plea to a particular oount.—-Sinclair v. Gray, 9 Fla., 71.

1034. Opening of defaults.—-The court may, for good cause
shown upon any default for want of appearance or plea, set aside
such default, and allow the defendant to demur or plead within
a period of time to be fixed by the said court; but ‘the application therefore must be made within sixty days from the time of
the entry of such default, unless a term of the court shall in the

meantime be held, when such application must be made during
such term. "

O ning of default is in sound discretion of court below. When discretion
oontro led.—Russ v. Gilbert, 19 Fla., 54; Tidwell v. Witherspoon,18 Fla., 282;
Loring v. Wittich, 16 Fla., 617. Applies to default and not to jud ent upon
default. —Burrows v. Mickler, 22 Fla., 577. Neglect of attorney as a ecting right
to open.—Tidwell v. Witherspoon. 18 F1a., 282; Waterson v. Seat, 10 F1a., 326.
Refused if applicant negligent.—Ib. Opening after reversal and remand by appellate court.—Ib. Application to be made to court-below and not to appellate

court.—Parker v. Hendry, 8 F1a., 53.

What confessed by default. What defendant may contest a.tterwards.—Russ
v. Gilbert, 19 Fla., 54; Watson v. Seat, 8 Fla.. 446.

ARTICLE 4.

ENTRY OF FINAL JUDGMENT UPON DEFAULT.

1035. Upon personal service.—Upon the entry of any default for Want of appearance, or for want of demurrer or plea in

any suit for the recovery of money founded upon contract, if the
action is on a written instrument for the payment of money, the
plaintifff at any time after such default may on the production
and filing of such instrument cause final judgment to be entered
for the amount, thereof with interest, and the clerk of the court
(or the judge if the court has no clerk), shall assess the amount
which the plaintifff is entitled to recover for the principal and interest, and enter up judgment for the same, upon which judgment execution shall issue immediately unless otherwise ordered
by the court. And if the action is upon an open account, or
other contract for the payment of money not in writing, upon the
entry of a default as aforesaid, the clerk (or the judge if the court
has no clerk), shall ascertain the amount which the plaintifff is
entitled to recover in such action from the examination of the
plaintifff "under oath, or other proofs by affidavit or otherwise,
and enter up judgment for the amount so assessed or ascertained,
upon which judgment execution shall issue as aforesaid.

Acts of clerk not in conformit with statute not binding.—Blount v. Gallaher, 22 Fla., 92. Proof upon fina judgment must conform to a1legation.—Wilson v. Fridenberg, 22 Fla., 114. Entry on default as to one joint defendant and
verdict as to other.—Netso v. Foss, 21 F1a., 143. Entry by clerk constitutional.-—
Gamble v. J. P. & M. R. R. Co., 14 Fla., 226.

1036. Default, and final judgment upon constructive service.
—In actions where the service of the summons or notice of the

institution of the suit is by publication, the plaintifff, at the rule
day named in the publication for the appearance of the defendant may enter a default if the defendant shall fail to appear and
answer the declaration as may be required, and thereupon he
may apply to the court for final judgment; and the court must
thereupon require proof to be made, either by the production of
the cause of action, if in writing, and if not, then by examination
under oath of the plaintifff, or other proof by affidavit or otherwise, and if the defendant is a non-resident of the State, must require the plaintifff or his agent to be examined on oath respecting

any payments that may have been made to the plaintifff, or to
any one for his use, on account of the demand sued on, and may
render judgment for the amount which the plaintifff is entitled to
recover, upon which an execution may issue as in other cases.

Can be entered only by court or judge.—Marshall v. Ravisies, 22 Fla., 583.

Final ind ent must show evidence on which based.—Blount v. Gallaher, 22
Fla... 92; Sue l v. Irvine, 17 Fla., 234 ; Coons v. Harlee, 17 Fla., 484. Not pro r
on sustaining demurrer to 'lea. Proper practice.—Garlington v. Priest, 13 a.,
359. Judgment and antece ent proceedings must appear to be correct on inspectioInD of recoi-d.—Wood v. Bank, 1 Fla., 378. Not reversed for mere irregularities.

CHAPTER XIII.

PLEADINGS AT LAW.

ARTICLE 1.—Certain common law requirements dispensed

with. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1037-1041
2.—Amendments of pleadings and proceedings.

' Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1042-1044
3—Averment of conditions precedent. Section . 1045
4.—Pleadings to be taken distributively. Section . 1046
5.—Equitable pleadings. Sections . . . . . . . 1047-1049
6.—Demurrers. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . 1050-1054
7.—-Joinder of issue. Section . . . . . . . . . 1055
8.-Pleadings of the plaintifff, to-wit: declaration,

section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1056-1058

replications and new assignments. Sections 1059-1061
9.-Pleadings of the defendant, to-wit: pleas, sec. 1062-1075
rejoinders, etc. Section . . . . . . . . . . 1076

ARTICLE 1.

CERTAIN COMMON LAW REQUIREMENTS DISPENSED WITH.

1037. Express color, special traverse, etc.—-Neither express
color nor special traverses shall be necessary in any pleading.

In any plea or subsequent pleading it shall not be necessary to
use any allegation of actionem non, or actionem ulterius non, or to
the like effect, or any prayer for judgment, nor shall it be necessary in any replication or subsequent pleading to use any allegation of precludi non, or to the like effect, or any prayer for judgment

Use of formal allegation improperly does not invalidate pleading.—Stafford
v. Anders, 8 Fla., 34.

1038. Statements which need not be proved.—Al1 statements
which need not be proved, such as statements of time, quantity,
quality and value, when these are immaterial; the statement of
losing and finding and bailment, the statement of acts of trespass
having been committed with force and arms; the statement of

promises in  counts, and all statements of a like kind
shall be omitted.

When time essential plea setting forth fact must be certain.-McKay v. -Lane,‘

5 F1a., 268. If formal all%ation made, need not be proved unless it identify or is
descriptive.—Barrett v. oggett, 6 Fla., 332. Ap lied to time.—Dawk1ns v.
Smithwick, 4 Fla., 158. But if material 18 traversab e and must be proved.-—Ib.

1039. Profert.—It shall not be necessary to make profert of
any deed or other document mentioned or relied on in any pleading; and if profert shall be made, it shall not entitle the opposite
party to crave oyer or a set out upon oyer of such deed or other
document.

But a party pleading in answer to any pleading in which any
document is mentioned or referred to, shall be at liberty to set
out the whole or such part thereof as may be material, and the
matter so set out shall be deemed and taken to be a part of the
pleading in which it is set out.

1040. Special demurrers.—No pleading shall be deemed insufficient for any defect which could heretofore only be objected
to by special demurrer.

1041. Pleading private acts of the legislature.—Private
acts of the legislature shall not be pleaded specially, but printed

copies thereof may be given in evidence without being specially
pleaded.

ARTICLE 2.

AMENDMENTS OF PLEADINGS AND PROCEEDINGS.

1042. Voluntary amendments. — Upon application of any

party desiring amendment, the courts of this State shall at all

times amend all defects and errors in any pleading or proceeding
in civil causes, whether there is anything to amend by or not, and
whether the defect or error be that of the party applying to
amend or not; and all such amendments shall be made with or
Without costs, and upon such terms as the court may deem fit;
and all such amendments as may be necessary for the purpose of
determining in the existing suit the real question in controversy
between the parties shall be so made, if duly applied for.

1043. Compulsory amendments.—If any pleading be so
framed as to prejudice or embarrass or delay the fair trial of the

action, the opposite party may apply to the court to strike out
or amend such pleading, and the court shall make such order respecting the same, and also respecting the costs, as it shall see fit.

Compulsory amendment; pro remedy formeritorious defense defectively

pleaded.—Jackson & Sharp Co. v. olland, 14 Fla., 384. Only wholly irrevelant
and not merely informal and bad pleas stricken out on motion.—Russ v. Mitchell, 11 F1a., so.

1044. Headings by opposite party after amendment.—When
an amendment of any pleading is allowed, the opposite party

shall be bound to plead to the amended pleading within two days
after notice in writing that the amendment has been made, unless

otherwise ordered by the court; and in case the amended p1ead- ,

ing has been pleaded to before amendment, and is not pleaded to
de now within said two days, or within such other time as the
court may allow, the pleadings originally pleaded thereto shall
stand and be considered as pleaded in answer to the amended

pleadings.

ARTICLE 3.

AVERMENT OF CONDITIONS PRECEDENT.

1045. Averment of conditions precedent.—Either party in
an action may aver performance of conditions precedent generally, and the opposite party shall not deny such averments generally, but shall specify in his pleading the condition precedent
the performance of which he’ intends to contest.

ARTICLE 4.

PLEADING8 TO BE TAKEN DISTRIBUTIVELY.

1046.'P1eadings to be taken distributive1y.~A1l pleadings
capable of being taken distributively shall be taken distributively.

ARTICLE 5.

EQU ITABLE PLEADING8.

1047. Defendant’s equitable pleadings.—The defendant in
any cause in any of the courts of this State in which, if judgment were obtained, he would be entitled to relief against such
judgment on equitable grounds, may plead by plea or subsequent
pleading the facts which entitle him to such relief by way of
defense.

Such plea shall begin with the words: “ For defense on equit“ able grounds,” or words to the like effect.

Any such matter, which, if it arose before or during the time
of pleading, would be an answer to the action by way of plea,
may, if it arises after the lapse of the period during which it
could be pleaded, be set up by way of audita qua-ela.

Stating defense available at law stricken out.—Johnson v. Allen, 22 Fla., 224.
What not rmissible.—Marshall v. Bumb , 25 Fla., 619; Home v. Carter's
admr., 20 F a., 45 ; Fla. Central R. R. Co. v. isbee, 18 Fla., 60. Remedy against
imgrlciper equitable plea.—Horne v. 'Carter’s admin, 20 Fla., 45; Spratt v. Price,
18 , 289.

1048. Plaintifs equitable pleading's.—T'he plaintifff may reply, rejoin, etc., in answer to any plea, etc., of the defendant, facts
which would avoid such plea, etc., upon equitable grounds.

Such replication, etc., shall begin with the words: “For repli“cation on equitable grounds,” or to the like effect.

1049. Striking out equitable pleadings.—If it shall appear
to the court that any such equitable pleading cannot be dealt with
by a court of law, so as to do justice between the parties, such
court may order the same to be struck out on such terms as to
costs and otherwise as to it may seem reasonable.

ARTICLE 6.

DEMU RREB8.

1050. Grounds of and judgment on.—Either party may object by demurrer to the pleading of the opposite party, on the
ground that such pleading does not set forth sufficient ground of
action, defense or reply, as the case may be, and when such demurrer shall be disposed of the court shall proceed and give judgment according as the very right of the cause and matter in law
shall appear unto said _court, without regarding any imperfection,
omission, defect in or lack of form.

Demurrer proper remedy against unresponsive plea.—Wilson v. Marks, 18
Fla., 322.

1051. Party may demur and plead at same time.—E_ither
party may plead and demur to the same pleading at the same

time, and it shall be in the discretion of the court to direct which
imue shall be first disposed of.

Order of disposition of, in sound discretion of court below.—-Myrick v. Merritt, 22 F 1a., 335. Construed.——Wadc v. Doyle, 18 Fla.. 630.

1052. Effect of demurrer.‘ No demurrer shall be considered .

as an admission of the facts set forth in the pleadings demurred
to, so as to bar the person demurring from any substantial claim

or defense which he might have urged if said demurrer had not
been filed.

Demurrer reaches back to first error.—Myrick v. Merritt,'22 Fla., 335; Stokes
v. Baars, 18 Fla., 656; Price v. Drew, 18 Fla., 670; Wade v. Doyle, 17 F1a., 522;
Johnson v. P. & P. R. R. Co., 16 Fla., 623 ; Jacksonville v. }Etna Steam, etc., Co.,
20 Fla., 100; Governor for use, etc. v. Hooker’s extr., 19 Fla., 163; Hooker v.
Gallagher, 6 Fla., 351 ; Parkhill’s admr. v. Union Bank, 1 Fla., 110. But not in
distinct pleadings on which issue has been taken.—-Sanford v. Cloud, 17 Fla.,
532. On demurrer whole record considered and judgment given for arty entitled.—Miller v. Kingsbury 8 Fla., 356; Parkhill’s admr. v. Union Ban , 1 Fla.,
110. Demurrer to plea to whole declaration responsive to only part of the counts
is good.—Price v. Drew, 18 Fla., 670. Demurrer waives objection that pleading
demurred to was not filed in time~—Manly v. Union Bank, 1 Fla., 160. De

murrer to whole declaration containing one good count bad.—McKay v. Friebele,
8 F1a., 21 ; Barber v. J. & A. P. R. R. Co.,'6 F1a., 262.

1053. Forms of demurrer and joinder thereon.—The form of
a demurrer shall be as follows, or to the like effect: “The de“fendant (or plaintifff) says that the declaration (or plea) is bad in
“ substance.” And the substantial matters of law intended to be
argued shall be stated; and if any demurrer shall be delivered
without such statement, or with a frivolous statement, it may be
set aside by the court. The form of a joinder in demurrer shall
be as follows, or to the like effect: “The plaintifff (or defendant)
“says that the declaration (or plea) is good in substance.”

Substantial matters to be stated.—-Stephens v. Bradlgyé, 24 F1a., 201. Speaking demurrers—State ex rel. vs. Commissioners Putnam ., 23 Fla., 632.

1054. Notice of hearing demurrer.—Demur.rers may be
heard in vacation upon five days’ notice by either party of the

time and place when and where the hearing will be had.

Fla Proper entry on sustaining demurrer to declaration.—Hower v. Lewton, 18
. 328.
9

ARTICLE 7.

JOINDER OF ISSU E.

1055. Joinder of issue.~Either party may plead in answer
to the plea or subsequent pleading of his adversary, that he joins
issue thereon, which joinder of issue may be as follows, or to the
like effect: “The plaintifff joins issue upon the defendant’s first
“plea.” “The defendant joins issue upon the plaintifff’s replica“tion to the first plea;” and such form of joinder of issue shall
be deemed to be a denial of the substance of the plea or other
subsequent pleading, and an issue thereon; and in all cases

where plaintifff's pleading is in denial of the pleading of the defendant, or some part of it, the plaintifff may add a joinder of
issue for the defendant.

Similiter. Absence of not ground for reversal.—Wilson v. Hunter, 25 Fla.,,469..
Huling v. Fla. Savin l3ank, 19 Fla., 695; Burk v. Clark, 9 Fla. 9. Nor is compulsion by court to e immediately:-Green v. Kin 17 Fla., 452. Presumptionn
as to filing similiter in time.—Bardm v. L’Engle, 13 §la., 571.

ARTICLE 8.

PLEADINGS ‘OF -THE PLAINTIFF.

DECLARATIO N8.

1056. Generally—Beg'inning and conclusion.—Every declaration shall commence as follows, or to the like effect: (Venue):

“A B by E F, his attorney (or in person) sues C D for” (here state
the cause of action). And shall conclude as follows or to the
like effect: “And the plaintifff claims $ . . . ” or (if the action is
brought to recover specific goods), “the plaintifff claims a return of
“said goods or their value and $ . . . for their detention.”

Ad damnum in replevin.—Anderson v. Carlin, 24 Fla., 199. Remed for and
waiver of variance between damages in declaration and in precipe an writ.--Cooper v. Livin on, 19 Fla., 684. Omission of signature of attorney; when
immaterial. Hu ing vs. Fla. Savings Bank, 19 Fla., 6 5.

1057. In special cases.
1. Fon LIBEL AND SLANDER.-—II1 actions of libel and slander

the plaintifff may aver that the words or matter complained of’
were used in a defamatory sense, specifying such defamatory
sense, without any prefatory averment to show how such wordsor matter were used in that sense, and such averment shall be
put in issue by the denial of the alleged libel or slander; and
when the words or matter set forth, with or without the alleged
meaning, show a cause of action, the declaration shall be sufh-«
cient.

What language is libelous per se.-—Jones v. Greeley, 25 Fla., 629; Mont:-u
gomery, v. Knox, 23 Fla., 595; Jones v. Townsend’s admr., 21 Fla., 431. Charge
as to defamatory sense. Financial ability of defendant. Amount of verdict—Jones v. Greeley, 25 Fla., 629. Effect of plea of not guilty. Mitigation of '
damages. Privilege.—Montgomery v. Knox, 23 Fla., 595-; Jones v. Townsend’s
admr.. Q1 Fla., 431. Plea of justillcation.——Jones v. Townsend’s admr. 21 Fla.,.
431; Jones v. Greeley, 25 Fla., 629. Good motives.—J ones v. Townsend’s admr.,.
21 Fla.., 431; \Vilson v. Marks, 18 F1a., 322. Evidence of special damages when
not alleged.—Wilson v. Marks, 18 1<‘la., 322. Want of probable cause.-Mont-«
gomery v. Knox, 23 Fla., 595.

2. ON BONDS, ETC., CAUSE OF ACTION TO BE FI.LED.—-All bonds
notes, bills of exchange, covenants and accounts, upon which suit
may be brought, or a copy thereof, shall be filed with the declaration.

1058. Forms of declarations.—The following forms shall be
sufficient in the statement of the declaration of the respective

causes of action therein set forth. They and like forms may be
used with such modifications as may be necessary to meet the
facts of the case; but nothing herein contained shall render it
erroneous or irregular to depart from the letter- of such forms, so
long as the substance is expressed without prolixity.

STATEMENT OF CAUSES OF ACTION ON CONTRACTS.

1. Goons soLD.—Money payable by the defendant to the
plaintifff‘ for (these words, “ Money payable,” etc., should precede
money counts, but need only be inserted in the first) goods bargained and sold by the plaintifff to the defendant.

2. WORK AND MA'rER1ALs.—Work done and materials furnished by the plaintifff‘ for the defendant at his request.

3. MONEY LEN'r.—Money lent by the plaintifff to the defendant.
4. MONEY PA1D.—Money paid by the plaintifff for the defendant at his request.
5. MONEY RECEIVED.-—MOney received by the defendant for
the use of the plaintifff.

Lies for money paid by mistake.—Hollbrook v. Allen, 4 Fla., 87. When
lies, evidence under.—Gordon v. Camp, 2 Fla., 422.

6. ACCOUNT s'rA'rED.—Money found to be due from the defendant to the plaintifff on accounts stated between them.

7. F011 LAND soLD.—A messuage and lands sold and conveyed by the plaintifff to the defendant.

8. Fox GOOD w1LL.—The good will of a business of the plaintifff sold and given up by the plaintifff to the defendant.

9. FoR THE USE OF A HOUSE AND LAND.—The defendant’s use
by the plaintifff ’s permission of messuages and lands of the
plaintifff.

10. Fox HIRE or GOODS, E're.—The hire of (as the case may be),
by the plaintifff let to hire to the defendant.

11. FOR FRE1GH'r.—Freight for the conveyance by the plaintifff for the defendant at his request of goods in ships.

12. Fox DEMURRAGE.—The demurrage of a ship of the plaintifff kept in demurrage by the defendant.

13. PAYEE AGAINST MAKER or NOTE.—-That the defendant on

the......dayof..........A.D.18..,by
his promissory note, now overdue, promised to pay to the plaintifff‘
3 . . . (six) months after date, but did not pay the same.

14. ENDORSEE AGAINST ENDORSER or No'rE.—'l‘hat one A. M.,
etc., (date), by his promissory note, now overdue, promised to pay
to the defendant or order $ . . . . . . (six) months after date;
and the defendant endorsed the same to the plaintifff; and the
said note was duly presented for payment and was dishonored,
whereof the defendant had due notice, but did not pay the same.

15. DRAwER AGAINsT AccE1>ToR or B1LL.—That the plaintifff on, etc. (date), by his bill of exchange now overdue directed to
the defendant, required the defendant to pay to the plaintifff
$ . . . (two) months after date, and the defendant accepted the
said bill, but did not pay the same.

16. PAYEE AGAINST nRAwER.—That the defendant, on, etc.
(date), by his bill of exchange, directed to A., required A. to pay
the plaintifff $ . . . (two) months after date; and the said bill
was duly presented for acceptance, and was dishonored, of which
defendant had due notice, but did not pay the same. ‘

17. BREACH or PROMISE or MARR1AeE.—That the plaintifff
and defendant agreed to marry one another, and a reasonable
time for such marriage has elapsed, and the plaintifff has always
been ready and willing to marry the defendant, yet the defendant
has neglected and refused to marry the plaintifff.

18. WARRANT\' OF A HoRsE.—That the defendant, by warranting a horse to be then sound and quiet to ride, sold the said
horse to the plaintifff, yet the said horse was not then sound and
quiet to ride.

' 19. FoR NoT LOADING PURSUANT To CHARTER PARTY.——Tha.t
the plaintifff and defendant agreed, by charter party, that the
plaintifff ’s ship called the “Ariel,” should, with all convenient
speed, sail to “R,” or so near thereto as she could safely get, and
that the defendant should there load her with a full cargo of . .
or other lawful merchandise, which he should carry to “H,” and
there deliver, on payment of freight $ . . . per ton, and that the
defendant should be allowed ten days for loading, and ten for discharge, and ten days for demurrage, if required, at $ . . . per
day; and the plaintifff did all things necessary on his part to entitle him to have the agreed cargo loaded on board the ship at
“ R,” and that the time for so doing has elapsed, yet the defendant made default in loading the agreed cargo.

20. UPON A LEASE FOR RENT.—That the plaintifff let to the

defendant a house, No. . . . ,Quincy, for . . . years, to hold
from the. . . .dayof. . . .,A.D.18. .at$. . . . .a
year, payable quarterly, of which rent . . . . quarters are due,
and unpaid.
21. UPON A covENANT To RE1>AIR.—That the plaintifff, by
deed let to the defendant a house, No. . . . , Quincy, to hold for
i. . . . . .yearsfrom the. . . . . .dayof. . . . . .,
A. D. 18 . . , and the defendant by the said deed covenanted

with the plaintifff well and substantially to repair the said house
«luring the said term (according to the covenant), yet the said
house was, during the said term, out of good and substantial repair.
Action of covenant lies onl upon instrument under seal.—-Mitchell V. St.
Andrews Bay, etc., Company, 4 *la., 200.

FOR WRONGS INDEPENDENT OF CONTRACT.

22. TRESPASS To LANn.—That the plaintifff broke and entered
certain land of the plaintifff called Big Field, and depastured the

same with cattle.

23. ASSAULT, BATTERY A-ND FALSE IMPRISONMEN'I‘.—-That the
defendant assaulted and beat the plaintifff, gave him into custody
to a policeman and caused him  be imprisoned in a police
office.

Sufliciency of declaration.—-Stephens v. Bradley, 24 Fla., 201.

24. CRIMINAL CONVERSATION.-—That the defendant debauched
and carnally knew the plaintifff ’s wife.

25. WRONGFUL CONVERSION or Goo1)s.—That the defendant
converted to his own use or wrongfully deprived the plaintifff of
the use and possession of the plaintifff’s goods; that is to say,
iron, hops (or as the case may be).

26. WRONGEUL DETENTION or PROPERTY.-—Tl1at the defendant detained from the plaintifff his title deeds of land called . .

.. . . . . . . . .,inthecountyof . . . . . . . ;that
is to say, (describe the deeds, etc.) .

27. DEFAMATION or CHARACTER.-—Tl1at the defendant falsely
and maliciously spoke and published of the plaintifff the words
following ; that is to say, “he is a thief.” (If there is any special
damage, state it with reasonable certainty, so as to give notice to
defendant of - the peculiar injury complained of; for instance:
whereby the plaintifff lost his situation as clerk in the employ

of A.)

Declaration in genera1.—-Sufficient statement of facts.—Bucki v. Cone, 25
Fla, 1. By passenger against railroad company for wrongful ex ulsion.—So.
Fla. R. R. Co. v. Rhodes, 25 Fla., 40. For deceit.—Williams v. cFadden, 23
F1a., 143. On conditional acceptance.—Myrick v. Merritt, 22 Fla.. 335. On injunction bond.—Tallahassee R. R. Co. v. Hayward, 4 Fla., 441; Wittich v.
O’Neal, 22 Fla., 592. Difference between in tort and in contract for breach of

ublic duty.-Jacksonville St. Ry. Co. vs. Chappell, 22 Fla., 616. For misuse of

ired horse.——West v. Blackshear, 20 Fla., 457. Upon bond issued under act of
l 'slature.—Jeffe1-son Co. v. Lewis, 20 Fla., 980. Sufficient to set forth legal
e ect of instrument.—Harrell v. Durrance, 9 Fla., 490. Should state notice to
defendant of fact] ing more properly in knowledge of plaintifff.—A. & F. R. R.
Co. v. Rowley, 9 F a., 508.

REPLICATIONS AND NEW ASSIGNMENTS.

1069. Replications in general.—A plaintifff may traverse the
whole of any plea or subsequent pleading of the defendant by a

general denial, or, admitting some part or parts thereof, deny all
the rest, or deny any one or more allegations. And may file as
many replications or subsequent pleadings to any pleading of the
defendant as he may desire.

Replications should be certain.—Sea1ey v. Thomas, 6 Fla., 25.

1060. Requirements of new assig'nment.—0ne new assignment only shall be pleaded to any number of pleas to the same
cause of action; and such new assignment shall be consistent with
and confirmed by the particulars delivered in the action, if any,
and shall state that the plaintifff proceeds for causes of action
different from those which the pleas profess to justify, or for an
excess over and above what all the defenses set up in such pleas

justify, or both.

1061. Forms of replication and new assignment.—-The following forms of replications and new assignments shall be sufficient, and they and the like forms may be used with such
modifications as may be necessary to suit the facts of the case;
but nothing herein contained shall render it erroneous or irregular to depart from the letter of such forms, so long as the substance is expressed without prolixity.

REPLICATION S.

1. JOINDER OF 1ssUE.—The plaintifff takes issue.upon the
defendant’s first, second, etc., pleas.

2. REPLICATION TO PLEAS CONTAINING NEW MATTER.——Tl1B
plaintifff as to the second plea says (here state the answer to the
plea as in the following forms.)

3. To PLEA or RELEASE.——Tllat the alleged release is not the
plaintifff ’s deed.

4. To PLEA or sEr—oFF.—That the alleged set-off did not
accrue within six years before this suit.

5. MOLLITER IMPOSUIT, E'rc.—That the plaintifff was possessed
of land whereon the defendant was trespassing and doing damage, whereupon the plaintifff requested defendant to leave said
land, which the defendant refused to do; and thereupon the
plaintifff gently laid his hands on the defendant in order to remove him, doing no more than was necessary for that purpose,
which is the alleged first assault by the plaintifff.

6. RIGHT OF WAY.-—That the occupiers of said land did not
twenty years before this suit enjoy as of right and without interruption the alleged way. ’

NEW ASSIGNMENT.

Andtheplaintifff,asto the. . . . . . . . . . . . .and
. . . . . . . . . . . . .plea, further says thathesuesnot
only for the trespass admitted, but also for, etc.

 

Replication to plea waives demurrable defects.—Proctor v. Hart, 5 Flu, 458.
New assignment; when proper.—Wilson v. Marks, 18 Fla., 322.

ARTICLE 9.

PLEADINGS OF THE DEFENDANT.

PLEA8 IN GENERAL.

1062. To be sworn to,-—Al1 pleas shall be sworn to, either
by the defendant or his agent or attorney. But it shall be no objection to any plea that it is contradictory to any other plea filed
by the same party in the same cause.

' 1063. As many as desired to be p1eaded.—The defendant
may plead as many matters of fact as he may deem necessary to
his defense.

1064. Traverse of dec1aration.—A defendant may either traverse generally such of the facts contained in the declaration as

might have been denied by one plea, or may select and traverse
separately ay material allegation in the declaration, although it
may have been included in a general traverse.

1065. Defects of form, imma.terial.—Any plea which shall
be good in substance shall not be objectionable on account of its

treating the declaration either as framed for a breach of contract
or for a wrong.

1066. Defences arising after action.-—Any defense arising
after the commencement of any action shall be pleaded according to the fact, without any formal commencement or conclusion;
and any plea which does not state whether the defense therein
set up arose before or after action, shall be deemed to be a plea
of matter arising before action.

1067. Defences arising since last plea.—In cases in which a
plea puis darrien continuance was before February 8, 1861,
pleadable, the same defense may be pleaded with an allegation
that the matter arose after the last pleading; but no such‘ pleading shall be allowed unless accompanied by an affidavit that the
matter thereof arose before the pleading of such plea, and after
said continuance, unless the court shall otherwise order.

In e'ectment.—S ratt v. Price, 18 Fla., 289. Does not waive former pleas.-Parkhill s admr. v. nion Bank, 1 Fla., 110.

1068. Beginning and conclusion of pleas.—No formal de,fence shall be required in a plea, and it shall commence as follows, or to the like effect: The defendant, by . . . . , his attorney (or in person), says that (here state the first defense), and
every other plea shall be numbered and shall commence as follows, or to the like effect: And for second (etc.) plea, the defendant says that (here state second, etc., defense), and no formal
conclusion shall be necessary to any plea or subsequent pleading.

Pleas in genera.l.——Plea tendering immaterial issue is denmrrable.-—Hunter v. Wilson, 21 Fla., 250. Treatment of unresponsive plea.--Huling v. Fla.
Savings Bank, 19 Fla., 695. Duplicity in leas.—Sanderson’s admr. v. Thomas,
17 Fla., 468. \Vithdrawal of, permitted a er demurrer. Should not be taken
from files.-—\Vade v. Do le, 17 Fla., 522. Withdrawal of improper, plca rmitted.—-Sanford v. Clou , 17 Fla., 532. Plea by one partner in suit against rm.
--Friend vs. Duryee. 17 Fla., 111. Antici atlon by special lea of ob°ection
available under general issue, improper.— orman v. J. & A. lglank Roa Co., 7
Fla., 264. Pleas reiterating defenses improper.—Ib. Plea to original declaration
will be plea to amended declaration, if appl1cable.—Butler v. Thompson, 2 Fla., 9.

PLEASIIN:_PARTICULAR CASES.

I1069. Pleas of set-off.~All debts or demands mutually existing between the parties at the commencement of the action,
whether the same be liquidated or not, shall be proper subjects of
set-off, and may be pleaded accordingly

The defendant, at the time of the filing of the plea, shall file
therewith a true copy of the subject matter of such set-off; and
upon the ‘trial of the cause, in case the jury shall find a balance
forthe defendant, such defendant may claim a judgment for the
same, and take out execution accordingly.

What allowed as set-off in action on contract.—Mathews v. Lindsey, 20 Fla..
962; Robinson v. L’Engle, 13 Fia., 482; Hall v. Pinney,13 F1a., 621. Plea of
set-off in suit by State. How available.-Frier v. State, 11 Fla, 300. Set-off
allowable when cross action would be.—Mitchell v. McLean, 7 Fla., 329. Defendant may have judgment for excess.—Butlington v. Quackenboss, 5 Fla. 196.
Plea of set-oii‘ does not prevent discontinuance by plaintifff.—Ib. Terms of discontinuance.——Ib. Nor does it prevent taking a non—suit.—Clark v. Wall, 5 F1a.,

476. '

1070. "Pleas of payment and set-off to be taken distributively.-—Pleas of payment and set-off shall be taken distributively; and if issue is taken thereon and so much thereof as shall
be sufiicient to answer to part of the causes of action proved shall
be found true by the jury, a verdict shall pass for the defendant
in respect of so much of the causes of action as shall be answered,

;and for the plaintifff in respect of so much of the causes of action

as shall not be answered.

1071. Disclaimer in actions quare clausum fregit.—In all
actions of quare clausum fregit where the defendant shall disclaim

in his plea any title or claim to the land in which the trespass is
alleged to have been done by the declaration, and the trespass be
by .negligenee or involuntary, the defendant shall be admitted to
plead a disclaimer, and that the trespass was by negligence or
involuntary, and a tender or other offer of sufficient amends for
such trespass, before the action was brought, upon which issues
or upon some of them, the plaintifff shall be compelled to join
issue; and if the said issue be found for the defendant, the
plaintifff shall be non-suited, and no suit shall ever be maintained
for the same cause of action.

-1072. Partial failure of consideration.—In all actions upon
promissory notes and other instruments of writing wherein a total

failure of consideration could, on January 11, 1851, be pleaded,
partial failure of , consideration may be pleaded in the same manner as pleas of total failure of consideration. The grounds of
defense in such case shall be fully pleaded.

When not good plea.——Reddick v. Mickler, 23 Fla., 335. Applied.-—S‘tafl’ord
v. Anders, 8 Fia., 34; Ahrens v. Willis, 6 Fla., 3559. Must set forth facts.--J ones
v. Streeter, 8 Fia., 83. Applied to failure of (~onsideration.—Prescott v. Johnson,
8. Fla., 391.

1

1073. Denial of existence and want of consideration, etc.,
of certain instruments.-All bonds, notes, covenants, deeds, bills

of exchange, and other instruments of writing not under seal,
shall have the same force and effect (so far as the rules of pleading and evidence are concerned), as bonds and instruments under
seal.

The assignment or endorsement of any such instruments of
writing shall vest the assignee or endorsee with the same rights,
powers and capacities as might have been possessed by the assignor or endorser. And he may bring suit thereon, and it shall
not be necessary for the plaintifff in any suit upon an instrument
assignable by law to set forth in the declaration the consideration
upon which the instrument was given, or upon which such assignment or endorsement was made, nor to prove such consideration or the execution of such instrument, unless the same shall
be impeached by the defendant under oath. An executor or
administrator, however, may deny the execution or consideration
aforesaid by plea not under oath.

Ilfect of assignment and endorsement.——Effect of assignment discussed.
—Bellas v. Ke 'ser, 17 Fla., 100. Assignment of bond need not be under seal.Collins v. Wil iams, 1 Fla., 37. Does not enlarge common law as to parties between whom inquiry can be made.-—White v. Camp, 1 Fla., 94. e. g., to include
suit by endorser v. maker.—Ib. Ri ht of action for breach of warranty of soundness not negotiable.-Kendig v. Gi es, 9 Fla., 278. Effect of section upon negotiability of instruments mentioned.——Cotton v. Williams, 1 Fla., 37 .

Plea and effect of.-—Sworn plea of failure of consideration throws burden
on plaintifff.—Smith v. LeV'esque, 25 Fla., 464; White v. Camp, 1 Fla., 94. Plea
of want of consideration as against bona fide holder of negotiable promissory note.—Hancock v. Hale, 17 Fla., 808. Section does not obviate necessity of
exhibition of instrument to the jury; when exhibited, consideration resumed.-Hooker v. Johnson, 10 Fla., 198. Does not dispense with proo of
amignment or endorsement. --Sinclair v. Gray, 9 Fla., 71. Section covers
“want” and not “failure” of consideration.—Hagler v. Mercer, 6 Fla., 342. Effect of sworn and unsworn plea of want of consideration.—Ib. Plea must set
forth facts.—Ahrens v. VVillis, 6 Fla., 359. How drawn and what should contain.-—White v. Camp, 1 Fla., 94. Must notbe equivalent to illegality or failure
of consideration.—Orman v. Barnard, 5 Fla., 528. ,Effect of unsworn plea by
administrator.--Knight v. Knight, 9 F 1a., 283.

1074. Plea to suit on bond of officer.-—No conviction or forfeiture shall be pleaded in bar to, or in avoidance of, any bond

which may have been given by any officer for the faithful performance of the duties of his office.

1075. Forms of particular plea.s.—The following forms of
pleas shall be sufficient in the cases to which they shall be respectively applicable. And they and the like forms may be used
with such modifications as may be necessary to suit the facts of
the case; but nothing. herein contained shall render it erroneous
or irregular to depart from the letter of such forms, so long as the
substance be expressed without prolixity.

Effect of adoption of these forms.—Robinson v. Hart-ridge, 13 Fla., 501.

PLEAS IN ACTIONS ON CONTRACTS.

1. DENIAL OF DEBT.-—Tlla.t he never was indebted as alleged.

(This plea is applicable to declarations like those numbered 1
to 12.) ‘

Not applicable to action on covenant.—Sanford v. Cloud, 17 Fla., 532.

2. DENIAL or coN'rRAc'r.—That he did not promise as alleged.
(This is applicable to other declarations on contracts, and not on

bills and notes.)

Not applicable to bills and notes.—Bemis v. McKenzie, 13 Fla., 553. But i
applicable to one count should not be stricken out.-Ib.

f

3. DENIAL OF nEEn.—That the alleged deed is not his deed.

4. STATUTE or LIMITA'I‘IONS.—-That the alleged cause of
action did not accrue within. . . . .  . . .years before

this suit.
5. PAYMEN'I‘.—-That before action he discharged and satisfied

plaintifff ’s claim by payment.

Fk;I‘his plea admits representative character of admr. suing.—-Raney v. Baron.
l ., 327. .

6. SET-oFF.—That the plaintifff, at the commencement of this
suit, was and still is indebted to the defendant in an amount equal
to the plaintifff’s claim, for (here state the cause of set-off as in a
declaration), which amount the defendant is willing to set-off
against the plaintiffi"s claim.

7. RELEASE.-—That after the alleged claim accrued, and
before this suit, the plaintifff by deed released the defendant

therefrom.

PLEAS IN ACTION FOR WRONGS INDEPENDENT OF CONTRACT.

1. NOT GUILTY.—That he is not guilty.

Effect of in t-rover.—Robi‘nson v. Hartridge, 13 Fla., 501. Special plea
equivalent to is bad.—Pensacola Gas Co. v. Pebley, 25 Fla., 381.

2. LEAVE AND LIcENsE.—'1‘hat he did what is complained of
by the plaintifff’s leave.

3. SELF-DEEENcE.—That the plaintifff first assaulted the defendant, who thereupon necessarily committed the alleged assault
in his own defense. '

4. RIGHT or wAY.—That the defendant, at the time of the
alleged trespass, was possessed of land, the occupiers whereof for
twenty years before this suit enjoyed as of right, and without interruption, a way, on foot and with cattle, from a public highway,
over the said land of the plaintifff to the said land of the defendant, and from the said land of the defendant over the said land
of the plaintifff to the said highway, at all times of the year, for
the more convenient occupation of the said land of the defendant, and that the alleged trespass was a use by the defendant of '

the said way.

1076. Rejoinders, etc.—The defendant may deny the whole
or a part of a replication or subsequent pleading of the plaintifff.

CHAPTER XIV.

PROCEEDINGS (OTHER THAN PLEADINGS) AFFECTING THE TRIAL
OF CAUSES.

AnTIcLn 1.—-PROCEEDINGS BEFORE TRIAL, VIZ:

Upon disqualification of the judge. Section . . . . . 1077

Upon the absence, etc., of the judge. Section . . . . 1078

Upon removal on account of prejudice. Section . . . 1079
2.-PROCEEDINGS BEFORE on AT THE TRIAL, vIz:

Giving indemnity for lost instrument. Section . . . 1080

Notice to admit documents. Section . . . . . . . . 1081

Inspection of property. Section . . . . . . . . . . 1082
3.-—PROCEEDINGS AT THE TRIAL, vIz:

Adjournment of trial. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . 1083

Non-suit. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1084

Waiver of jury. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1085

Challenge of jurors. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . 1086

View of premises by jury. Section . . . . . . . . . 1087

Chargeto jury. Sections . . p . . . . . . . . . . . . 1088-1092

Sending jury back. Section . . , . . . . . . . . . 1093
ARTICLE 1.

PROCEEDINGS BEFORE TRIAL.

UPON DISQUALIFICATION OF JUDGE.

1077. Transfer of cause.1. PETITION AND oRDER.—Whenever any civil cause may be
pending in any of the courts of this State, and it ‘cannot be
heard, tried or determined, by reason of the disqualification of
the judge of such court, the parties, if it be at common law in
the circuit court or county court, and either party, in all other
cases, may present a petition to stich judge praying that said
cause be transferred to some other circuit court, county court,
county judge’s court, or justice of the peace court, as the case
may be, and it shall be the duty of the judge so disqualified to
make an order removing said cause to some court in the next
nearest circuit,'if the same be in the circuit court, or county if
in a county court or county judge’s court, or district if in a justice’s court; but if the judge in the nearest circuit, county or district be also disqualified, some other circuit, county or district
shall be selected for that purpose.

Transfers in circuit court only upon request of both arties.——State ex. rel. v
Walker, 25 Fla., 561. Transfer to a second circuit when ju ge of first to which transferred disqualiiied.—-Swepson v. Call, 13 Fla., 337. Transfer attaches only upon illin
papers in court to which transfer is made. All essentials must appear In reco
of transfer.—Ib. Constitutional.—The.baut v. Canova, 11 Fla., 143. Order of
transfer before service of summons, void.——Jacksonville v. Doman, 13 Fla., 390.
Order must direct transfer and name county.—Bauknight v. Sloan, 17 Fla.. 281.
Order of transfer must show reason for making it. Must name county to which
transfer is directed.—Smith v. Gibson, 14 Fla., 263; Swepson v. Call, 13 Fla. 337.

2. TRANSFER or PAPERS.-—UpOn such removal of a cause the
clerk of the court (or the court if it ‘has no clerk) in which such

cause was pending shall transmit all papers in the court belonging
thereto, to the court to which said cause may be ordered to be
transferred, together with a certificate of the order of transfer.

The party applying for the transfer shall first pay all costs which

have accrued in such cause.
Payment of costs essentia1.—-Swepson v. Call, 13 Fla., 337.

3. TAKING TESTIMONY or WITNESSES.-—Up0I1 such removal,
the testimony of the witnesses residing in the county from which
it is removed, if it be removed from the county, may be taken in
the manner provided by law for taking the testimony of witnesses
residing out of the county in which any suit is pending.

UPON THE ABSENCE, ETC., OF THE JUDGE.

1078. Substitution of other.—Whenever the judge of any
court, other than the supreme and criminal courts of record, shall

be unable from absence, sickness or other cause, or shall be disqualitied from interest or any other cause to discharge any duty whatever
appertaining to his office, which may be required to be performed
in vacation or between terms, it shall be the duty of any other
judge of a court of the same jurisdiction as the court in which the
cause is pending, on the application of any party, to perform such
duties, and hear and determine all such matters as may be submitted to him; and such judge may discharge such duties either
in his own or any other jurisdiction, and shall be substituted in
all respects in the place and stead, in the matter aforesaid, of the
judge unable or disqualified to act.

Substituted judge may sign bill of exoe tions.—Bowden v. Wilson, 21 Fla.,
165. Section constitutiona1.—Swepson v. Ca 1, 13 Fla., 3237.

. UPON REMOVAL ON ACCOUNT OF PREJUDICE.

1079. Transfer of can8e.-In any suit in a circuit court,
county court, county judge’s court, or justice of the peace court,

when either party shall fear that he will not receive a fair trial
in the court where it is pending, on account of the prejudice of
the judge of the court where the suit is depending, or because
the adverse party has an undue influence over the minds of the
inhabitants of the county where the suit is depending, or because
the petitioner is so odious that he cannot expect a fair trial, the
said party may petition in writing the judge of the court for a
change of venue of such cause, distinctly setting forth the cause
of such fear by his affidavit, previous notice of such application
and of the time and place of hearing the same being given to the
adverse party or his attorney; on which petition the judge may,
under his hand award a change of venue, and by himself, if the
court has no clerk, or by the clerk, if the court has one, send forward the papers in the suit to the circuit, county, county judges
or justice of the peace court, as the case may be, of the next convenient circuit, county, or district, as the judge may direct; and
such court shall receive them, and give a receipt therefore, and
(locket the suit in order, and the court shall have full authority
and jurisdiction to award subpoenas for witnesses, and to enforce

their attendance, to grant rules and commissions for the taking
of depositions, to hear and determine the said controversy, to
award executions, and do every thing relating thereto which the
court from which the suit was removed might have done. But
no change of venue shall take place so as to have the cause sent
to either of the counties or districts where the parties or either of
them reside, nor shall there be more than one removal of the
same cause.

Can be only one renioval.—Johns’ extr. v. Johns, 17 F1a., 806. Change of
venue in sound discretion of lower court.—Stevens v. Bradley, 24 F1a., 201.

ARTICLE 2.

PROCEEDINGS BEFORE OB AT THE TRIAL.

1080. Suit on lost instrnment.—The court may order that
the loss of a negotiable instrument shall not be set up in any

action to recover on the same, if an indemnity be given to the
satisfaction of the court, or the clerk thereof, against the claims
of any other person on such instrument.

Applied.——Salomon v. Pioneer Corporation Co., 21 Fla., 374.

1081. Notice to admit documents.—Either party may call
upon the other party by notice to admit any document, saving all
just exceptions; and in case of refusal or neglect to admit, the
costs of proving the document shall be paid by the party refusing
or neglecting, whatever the result of the cause may be, unless at
the trial the court shall certify that the refusal ‘to admit was reasonable; and no cost of proving any document shall be allowed
unless such notice be given, except in cases where the omission to
give notice is, in the opinion of the court, a saving of expense.

1082. Inspection of property.—Either party shall be at liberty to apply to the court for a rule or order for the inspection by
himself or by his witnesses of any real or personal property, the
inspection of which may be material to the proper determination
of the question in dispute; and the costs of the said rule or order
and the proceedings therein shall be in the discretion of the court.

ARTICLE 3.

PROCEEDING AT THE TRIAL.

1083. Adjournment of trial.-—The court may at the trial of
any cause where it may deem it right for the purposes of justice
order an adjournment for such time, and subject to such terms
and conditions ‘as to costs and otherwise as it may think fit.

1084. Non-su:it.—-No plaintifff shall take a non-suit on trial
unless he do so before the jury retire from the bar.

1085. Waiver of jm'y.—When both parties in an action at
law agree to a trial without jury, the judgment shall be as effectual
as upon verdict.

I

. Bill of exceptions necessary to review such trial. What such bill should
contain.—Bogue v. McDonald. 14 Fla., 66.

1086. Challenge of jurors.1. PEREMPTORY.-011 the trial of any civil cause in any court,

each party shall be entitled to three peremptory challenges of
jurors empaneled in said cause.

When juror may be challen ed.——At an time before he is sworn.—Ellis
v. State, 25 Fla., 702. Peremptori y, after cha lenge for cause.-—Barber v. State.
13 Fla., 675. For cause after peremptory challen withdrawn.—Savage v. State,
18 Fla., 909. After juror sworn, when permitte .—State v. Madoil, 12 Fla., 151.

2. FOR CAUSE.——The court shall, on motion of each party in
any suit, examine on oath any person who is called as a juror
therein to know Whether he is related to either party, or has any
interest in the cause, or has expressed or formed any opinion, or
is sensible of any bias or prejudice therein; and the party objecting to the juror may introduce any. other competent evidence in
support of the objection; and if it shall appear to the court
that the juror does not stand indifferent in the cause, or is otherwise incompetent, another shall be called and placed in his stead
for the trial of that cause.

And when the nature of any case, civil or criminal, requires
a knowledge of reading, writing and arithmetic, or either, to enable the juror to understand the evidence to be offered on the
trial, it shall be cause of challenge if he does not possess such
qualification, to be determined by the judge presiding at the
trial.

See section 1149.

Cause for challenge: Opinion.-—A non-disqualifying opinion.-—Andrews
v. State, 21 Fla. 598; O’Connor v. State, 9 Fla., 215. Fixity of disqualifyin
opinion discusse .—Montague v. State, 17 Fla., 662. What previous hearing 0
evidence does not disqual1fy.—O’Connor v. State, 9 Fla., 215. Juror sitting on
former trial not challengeable after he is sworn, when.—Whitner v. Hamlin,
12 Fla., 18. Effect of knowledge that juror had formed opinion.—Irvine v. State,
19, 872. Intere8t.—-Holder of bond similar to those in suit, disqualifled.-—Jefferson Co. v. Lewis, 20 Fla., 980. B.e1ationsh.ip.—What d , ground of challenge.—O’Connor v. State, 9 Fla.. 215; Morrison v. Mc 1111101), 12 Fla., 552.
Waiver of such ground.—Ib.

Proof of ca.use.—Bias may be shown by witness.—Ellis V. State, 25 Fla.,
702. Court should hear evidence against com tcncy.—Barber v. State, 13 Fla.,
675. What 'uror ma be asked on voir dire.-- tate v. Madoil, 12 Fla., 151. ImErlzpegotéo as as to e ect of verdict on his social standing.—Savage V. State, 18

Discretion of court as to excuse.—.\Iay excuse juror not challengeable for
cause.--1-Illis v. State, 25 Fla., 702; Mann v. State, 23 Fla., 610. Or qualified
jur0r.——Jolm I). C. v, State. (tr rel., 16 Fla., 554. ()r disqualified juror aher he is
sworn.—Kecch v. State, 15 Fla., 591.

1087. View of premises by jury.—The jury may in any case,
upon motion of either party, be taken to View the premises or place
in question, or any property, matter or thing relating to the controversy between the parties, when it shall appear to the court
that such view is necessary to a just decision; but the party making the motion shall advance a sum sufficient to defray the expenses of the jury and the officer who attends them in taking the
view, which expense shall afterward be taxed like other legal
costs if the party who advanced them shall prevail in the suit.

Necessity for, is in sound discretion of court below.—-Coker v. Merritt, 16
Fla., 416.

CHARGE TO THE JURY IN CIVIL CASES.

1088. Duty of judge to charge jm'y.—Upon the trial of all
cases at law in the several courts of this State, the judge presiding on such trial shall charge the jury only upon the law of the
case ; that is, upon some point or points of law arising in the
trial of said cause. .

If, however, upon the conclusion of the argument of counsel
in any civil case after all the evidence shall have been submitted,
it be apparent to the judge of the circuit court, or county court,
that no evidence has been submitted upon which the jury could
lawfully find a verdict for one party, the judge may direct the.jury to find a verdict for the opposite party.

A charge not assuming facts.--Fla. R’ & Navigation Co. v. Webster, 25 Fla.,.
394. Erroneous charge upon facts.—E. - . E. v. State ex rel ib., 268; Baker vChattield, 23 Fla., 540. Assuming truth of material fact in dispute.—Ashmead
v. Wilson, 22 Fla., 255; L. & N. . R. Co. v. Yneistra, 21 Fla., 700; Ferguson v.
Porter, 3 Fla., 27. Assumption of conclusiveness of testimony of witness erroneous.-—Do§g:tt v. Wille , 6 Fla. 482. A charge on facts erroneous.-D tt v.

Jordan, 2 ., 541. W en reasonable notice is to be decided by court.— hits.ker v. Morrison, 1 Fla., 25.

1089. When charge to be in writing.-—Every charge to 81
jury shall be oral, except when in the circuit or county court,
either party or his attorney shall request in Writing before the
evidence is closed that it be in writing, when the judge shall commit it to writing.

When delivered it shall be filed in the case and become a part
of the record.

Judge need not charge at alljunless requested.—Lacy v. State, 11 Fla., 295.
Directions as to conduct of jury is not a charge.--Duggan v. State, 9 Fla., 516.

1090. Instructions to juries.—If either of the parties or their
attorneys present to the judge instructions in writing on any point
of law arising on the trial, it shall be the duty of the judge to declare in writing to the jury his ruling thereupon as presented, and
pronounce the same to the jury as given or refused.

Presumption that statute has been followed.-—Carter v. State, 22 Fla., 552.
Refusal of judge to follow this section is error.——Keitt v. Spencer. 19 Fla., 748;
Fridenbe v. Robinson, 14 Fla., 130; Baker v. State, 17 Fla., 406; Dixon v.
State, 13 F a., 636. Such refusal pronounced error in case where there was no
bill of exceptions.—Keitt v. S ncer, 19 F 1a., 748. Evidence of compliance with
8ection.—-Jones v. State, 18 1a., 889. Instructions should be written out by
counsel.-Irvine v. State, 19 Fla., 872. Judge need not read to jury instructions
refused.—Stewart v. Mills, 18 Fla., 57; Sherman v. State, 17 Fla., 888. Counsel
should have time to prepare instructions:-Dixon v. State, 13 Fla., 636. Instrucgins 111? be taken to jury-room if whole charge and instructions are
en.-- .

1091. To be signed and filed.—Said instructions, as well
those given as those denied, shall be signed by the said judge,

and be by him filed in the case immediately after delivery or
refusal and form a part of the record in the case.

_ Waiver of failure to sign.—-Jones v. Greeley, 25 F1a., 629. Evidence of sign1ng.—Carter v. State, 22 Fla., 552; So. Ex. Co. v. VanMeter, 17 Fla., 783.

1092. Portion of charge embodied in motion for new trial
considered as excepted to.—-Either party after verdict rendered
may embody in a motion for a new trial any portion of the
charge of the court which he may deem erroneous, which shall
be taken as an exception to said charge.

General exceptions to several instructions overruled if one good.—Baker v.
Chattield, 23 Fla., 540; Heron v. State 22 Fla., 86; John D. C. v. State 16 Fla.,
554; Dupuis v. Thom n,16 Fla., 69; (Jane: v. State, 20 Fla., 754; Burroughs v.
State, 17 Fla., 643. 's section does not change this rule.—-Carter v. State, 20
Fla., 754. General exception to whole charge bad unless whole cha erroneous.—Jenkins v. Lykes, 19 Fla., 148; Irvine v. State, 19 Fla., 872; l§le11'l‘01l hs
v. State, 17 Fla., 643; John D. C. v. State, 16 Fla., 554; May v. Gamble, 14 a.

-467. Exception is necessary to review ch_a1ge.—Wilson v. Marks, 18 Fla., 322;

Burroughs v. State, 17 Fla. 643. Or error 111 refusing or iving instructions.—So.
Ex. Co. v. VanMeter, 17 Fla, 733. Applied.-—Glover v. tate, 22 F1a., 493. .

1093. Sending jury back.—When a jury after due and
thorough deliberation upon any cause, shall return into court

without having agreed on a verdict, the court may explain to
them anew the law applicable to the case, and may send them
out again for further deliberation; but if they shall return a
second time without having agreed on a verdict, they shall not be
sent out again without their own consent, unless they shall ask
from the court some further explanation of the law.

CHAPTER XV.
OF WITNESSES AND EVIDENCE.

ARTICLE 1.—Witnesses. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094-1104
2.—Evidence, other than depositions. Sections . 1105-1122
3.—Depositions. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . 1123-1147

ARTICLE 1.
wrrnnssm.
Their competency. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094-1096

Their credibility. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . I097

Procurement of attendance. Sections . . . . . . . . 1098-1100

Their impeachment. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . 1101,1102

Their compensation. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103-1104

COMPETENCY OF WITNESSES.
(See as to atheists, etc. chapter 4036, act June 6, 1891, Appendix.)

1094. As affected by marriage.——(See chapter 4029,‘ act
June 4, 1891, Appendix.)

1096. As afected by interest.——N o person, in any court or
before any officer acting judicially, shall be excluded from testifying as a Witness by reason of his interest in the event of the
action or proceeding, or because he is a party thereto: Provided, however, that no party to such action or proceeding, nor any
person interested in the event thereof, nor any person from,
through, or under whom any such party or interested person derives any interest or title by assignment or otherwise, shall be examined as a witness in regard to any transaction or communication between such witness and a person at the time of such
examination deceased, insane or lunatic, against the executor,
administrator, heir-at-law, next of kin, assignee, legatee, devisee,
or survivor of such deceased person, or the assignee or committee
of such insane person or lunatic; but this prohibition shall not
extend to any transaction or communication as to which any
such executor, administrator, heir-at-law, next of kin, assignee,
legatee, devisee, survivor or committeeman shall be examined on
his own behalf, or as to which the testimony of such deceased
person or lunatic shall be given in evidence.

What testimony the proviso excludes.—“ Transactions or communica“tions” detined.——Hollida_v v. McKinne, 22 Fla., 153. In suit against assignee of
deceased person.—Harris v. Bank, ib. 501. A inst representative of deceased.
-Ley v. Edwards, 21 Fla., 333. Effect of is prov1so.—Belote v. O’Brien’s
admr., 20 Fla., 126. In suit of survivor inst representative of deceased rtner.—Eppinger v. Canepa, 20 Fla., 262. roviso applied even where no 0 jeetion to testimony made below.-—Stewart v. Stewart, 19 Fla., 846. Testimony of

y interested against assi nee of deceased mortgagee. -Tunno v. Roberts, 16
F]la., 738. Interest defined. ode of and practice in proving.--Croom v. Noll, 6

a., 52.

What testimony roviso does not exc1ude.—-Suppletory oath to book of
acoount.—-Robinson v. ibb1e’s admr., 17 Fla.,45; Deans v King’s ext-rs., 20 Fla.,
533. Testimony as to the performance and value of services rendered by party
to deceased.-—Ib. Certain testimony of party not forbidden.—Raulerson v.
Rockner’s admr., 17 Fla., 809.

1096. As affected by crime.—Persons who have been convicted in any court in this State of murder, perjury, piracy,,forgery, larceny, robbery, arson, sodomy or buggery, shall not be competent witnesses. (Even a pardon of a person convicted of perjury shall not render him competent.) Such conviction may be
proved by questioning the proposed witness, or if he deny it, by
producing a record of his conviction.

Competency of attorney of party.—Buckmaster v. Kelley, 15 Fla., 180. Compcitency 18 presumed unti contrary is established.—Williams v. McGehee, 2
a., 58. ‘

CREDIBILITY OF WITNESSES.

1097. As affected by crime.—Testimony as to the general
character, and an admission of proof, as provided in section 1096,

of the conviction of any witness who shall have been convicted
in this State of any crime other than those mentioned in said section, or who shall have been convicted of any crime in any other
State, may be given in evidence to affect his credibility.

, PROCUREMENT OF ATTENDANCE OF WITNESSES.

1098. Issuance of subptena ad test.—W hen the attendance
of any person shall be required as a witness in any court, in any

cause pending therein, it shall be the duty of the clerk of the said
court, or the court if it has no clerk, on application, to issue a
Writ of subpoena, directed to the person whose attendance shall
be required, when such person resides within the county in which
such cause may be depending. The writ of subpoena shall contain the names of the parties in the cause, and state at whose instance it is issued. ‘

See as to subpoena for the State in civil cases.—Section 1, chapter 4027, Laws
1891, Appendix.

1099. Failure of witnesses to attend.-If a witness in any
cause has been duly subpoenaed and shall fail to appear, it shall

be the duty of the court, on motion, to order an attachment
against him, returnable at such time as the court may direct;
and upon the return of such attachment the court may {inc him
in any sum not exceeding one hundred dollars, unless he shall
make a sufficient excuse for such non-attendance, to be judged of
by the court; and he shall also be subject to the action of the person at whose suit he shall-have been subpoenaed for any damage

which such person may have sustained by reason of such nonattendance.

1100. Length of attendance.~It shall be the duty of every
duly subpoenaed witness to attend from term to term of the court
to which he is subpoenaed until the cause in which he has been
subpoenaed is tried or otherwise disposed of, unless he shall be
sooner discharged from further service.

IMPEACHMENT OF WITNESSES.

1101. Impeachment by arty producing.—A party producing a witness shall not be al owed to impeach his credit by general evidence of bad character, but he may, in case the witness
prove adverse, contradict him by other evidence, or prove that he
has made at other times a statement inconsistent with his present
testimony; but before such last-mentioned proof can be given,
the circumstances of the supposed statement, sufficient to designate the particular occasion, must be mentioned to the witness,
and he must be asked whether or not he made such statement.

Applied.—-Montgomery v. Knox, 23 F1a., 595.

1102. Impeachment by opponent of party producing.——If a
witness, uponcross-examination as to a former statement made

by him relative to the subject matter of the cause and inconsistent with his present testimony, does not distinctly admit that he
has made such statement, proof may be given that he did in fact
make it; but before such proof can be given, the circumstances
of the supposed statement, sufficient to designate the particular
occasion must be mentioned to the witness, and he must be asked
whether or not he made such statement.

COMPENSATION OF WITNESSES.

1103. Amount.——Each witness shall receive for each day’s
attendance in the circuit and county courts, one dollar and twenty-five cents, and ten cents per mile for actual distance traveled
to and from the court-house; in courts of the county judge and
of justices of the peace, fifty cents per day, and the same mileage
as in the circuit court.

1104. Manner of obtaining compensation.—On the completion of the attendance of any witness in any case, such witness

may exhibit his account on oath against the person at whose instance he may have been summoned, and the clerk of the court,
or the court if it has no clerk, shall examine and sign the same
and administer the oath, and such account shall be taxed in the
bill of costs; where any witness shall charge and receive more
than is really due, such witness shall forfeit and pay to the party
injured four times the amount so unjustly claimed, and if he shall

willfully make out his account for more fees than is lawfully due,
he shall forfeit all fees.

Opinions of witnesses as evidence.—Mann v. State, 23 Fla., 610.

ARTICLE 2.

OF EVIDENCE, OTHER THAN DEPOSITIONS.

Of laws. Sections. . . . ._ . . . . . . . . . . . . .1105-1108

Of records of courts. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . 1109, 1110

Of records of public offices. Sections . . . . . . . . 1111-1114

Of discovery from opponent. Sections- . . . . . . . 1115-1117

In particular cases. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . 1118-1122

OF EVIDENCE OF LAWS.

1105. Laws of this Sta.te.~Printed copies of all statutes,
acts and resolutions of the legislature of this State, whether of a

public or private nature, which shall be published under the
authority of the government, shall be admitted as sufficient evidence of such statutes, acts and resolutions, in ‘all courts and on
all occasions whatsoever. And such copies of private acts shall
be so admitted without being specially pleaded.

1106. Written law of the United States, and of the several
S1-,a.t.es.—Printed copies of the statute laws of the United States,

and of any of the several states and territories thereof, if purporting
to be published under the authority of the respective governments,
or if commonly admitted and read as evidence in their courts,
shall be admitted in all courts and on all other occasions in this
State as prima facie evidence of such laws.

1107. The unwritten law of the United States, and of the
several States, etc.—The unwritten or common law of the United
States, or of any of the states or territories thereof, may be proved

as facts by parole evidence; and the books of reports of cases adjudged in their courts may also be admitted as evidence of such
law.

Laws of other states must be proved as other facts.--Tuten v. Gazan, 18 Fla.,
751. 1108. Foreign laws.-—The existence and the tenor or effect
of all foreign laws may be proved as facts by parole evidence; but
if it shall appear that the law in question is contained in a written statute or code, the court may, in its discretion, reject any
evidence of such law which is not accompanied by a copy of
such code or statute.

1109. Of records of\ courts.—-Copies of the records and judicial proceedings of any court in this State, or of another state or

territory, or of the United States, shall be admissible in evidence
in all cases in this State, when authenticated by the attestation
of the officer having charge of the records of such court, with
the seal of such court annexed. And the recital by the person
attesting that he has charge of such records shall be prima facie
evidence that he has such charge.

Irregular, defective or void records of courts of other States not admitted in
evidence.~Porter v. Bevill, 2 Fla., 528. Nor judgments of other States against
defendant not shown to have been served personally or by legal publication. Ib.
What is record of judgment.-Ashmead v. Wilson, 22 Fla., 255; Walls v. Endel,
20 Fla., 86; Starke v. Billings, 15 Fla., 318; Donald v. McKinnon, 17 Fla., 746.
Existence and effect of not provable by oral testimony, when.—Bellamy v.
Hawkins, 17 Fla., 750.

1110. Copies of wills and pr0bate8.—Copies of all wills
and letters testamentary or of administration, heretofore rmorded

in any public office of record in this State, when duly certified
by the keeper of said records, shall be received as evidence in all
the courts of record in this State; and the probate of wills
granted in any of the United States or territories thereof, or in
any foreign state, duly authenticated and certified according to
the laws of the state or territory, or of the laws of the foreign
country or state where such probate may have been granted, shall
likewise be received in evidence in all the courts of record in
this State.

1111. Of evidence of records of public officers in general.In all cases where any record, pleading, document, deed, conveyance, paper, or instrument of writing is, or may be required or
authorizedgto be made or filed or recorded in any public office of
this State or of any county thereof, a copy thereof duly certified
under the hand and seal of oiiice (if there be a seal of office, and
if there be no seal of office, then under the private seal of the
officer having the custody or control of the same) to be a true
and correct copy of the original on file or of record in his office,
shall, in all cases and in all courts and places, he admitted and
received in evidence with the like force and effect as the original
thereof might be. Nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to prevent any court or judge before whom such copies
may be offered in evidence from requiring the party offering the

same to produce or account for the original of such copy, if the
same shall be deemed necessary or proper for the attainment of
justice.

Some such records admissible even without statute.—Bell v. Kendrick, 25 Fla.,
778; Magruder v. Roe, 13 Fla., 602. Record of deed must have been upon due
evidence of execution.——Kendrick v. Latham, 25 Fla., 819. Ap lied to
records of papers in office of secretary of State.—Tuten v. Gazan, 18 1a., 751.
Extracts from records not evidence.—Bellamy v. Hawkins, 17 Fla. 750. Even
though certified to contain all material matters.—Ib. American State papers
evidence. Magruder v. Roe 13 Fla., 602.

1112. Gertincate of commissioner of agriculture.—The certificate of the commissioner of agriculture, under his official seal,

with respect to the ownership by the State, or by the school,

seminary or Internal Improvement Fund, of any lands in this _

State, shall be prima facie evidence of the facts therein certified.

Applied to certificate of patenting by United States to State.—Groover v.
Coffee, 19 Fla., 61.

1113. Gertincates of State officers.—The certificate of any
State officer under his seal of office as to any official fact occurring in the course of the official business of the office in which
he presides shall be prima facie evidence of such fact.

1114. Effect of seal of commissioner of ag'riculture.~The
impression of the seal of the commissioner of agriculture upon

any deed, agreement or contract, purporting to have been made
by the trustees of the Internal Improvement Fund, or by the
members of the board of education, or by the commissioner of
agriculture, shall entitle the same to be received in evidence in
all courts and in all proceedings in this State.

A p1ied.—Bell v. Kendrick, 25 Fla., 778. When not evidence.—Groover
v. Co ee, 19 Fla., 61.

Exemplification of United States land patent and of records of United States
neral land off1ce.—Liddon v. Hodnett, 22 Fla., 442. Seal of another state to

Folgument issued by its executive makes it evidence.—Groover v. Coffee, 19
., 61.

OF DISCOVERY FROM OPPONENT.

Q

1116. By production of books, etc.—The courts in this
State, may, on the trial of causes cognizable before them respectively, upon ten days’ notice to the opposite party or his attorney,
require the party notified as aforesaid to produce books and other
writings in his possession, power or custody, which shall contain
evidence pertinent to the issue; and if he shall fail to comply
with such order, or to satisfy the court why the same is not complied with, it shall be lawful for the court, if the party so refusing be plaintifff, to give judgment for the defendant, as in case of
non-suit; and if defendant, to give judgment against him by default. The party requiring the production of the books or papers
as aforesaid shall, in all cases, satisfy the court of their materiality in the cause therein depending.

1116. By propounding interrogatories.—In all causes in any
of the courts of this State either party may, at any time, deliver

to the opposite party, or his attorney, interrogatories in writing
upon any matter as to which discovery may be sought, and require such party, or in case of a body corporate, any of the
officers of such body corporate, within ten days, to file in the
court in which the cause is pending, written answers under oath
to such interrogatories.

Such answers shall be evidence against, but not for, the party
making them.

A failure to answer such interrogatories shall be deemed a
contempt of court.

1117. By oral examination.—In case of omission without
just cause to answer sufiiciently such written interrogatories, the

court may, at its discretion direct an oral examination of the interrogated party as to such points as it may direct, either before
the court, or a person to be appointed by the court, and the court
may command the attendance of such party for the purpose of
being orally examined as aforesaid, or the production of any

‘writings or other documents to be mentioned in such rule or or- .

der, and may impose therein such terms as to such examination,
and the costs of the application, and of the proceedings thereon,
and otherwise, as to it shall seem just.

' The depositions taken as aforesaid shall be reduced to writing
and returned to and kept in the court in which the proceeding
are pending. The person taking the examination shall, if required by either
party, report to the court the absence or conduct of the person to
be interrogated, and the court may make such order as to contempt or otherwise as it may see fit. A ‘

EVIDENCE IN PARTICULAR CASES.

Upon motions. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1118
In cases involving U. S. title to land. Section . . . . . . . 1119
Books of accounts. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1120
Comparison of disputed writings. Section . . . . . . . . . 1121
In suits between State and individuals. Section . . . . . . 1122

1118. Upon motions.—Upon motions founded upon affidavits,
either party may offer affidavits in answer to the affidavits of the
opposite party. Upon the hearing of any motion, the court may,
at its discretion, and upon such terms as it shall think reasonable,
from time to time order such documents as it may think proper
to be produced, and such witnesses as it may think necessary to
appear and be examined viva. voce, either before such court or before its clerk, and upon hearing such evidence, or reading the report of such clerk to make such rule or order as may be just.

1119. In cases involving title from United States.~A receipt
of a receiver of a United States land office shall in all cases be

prima facie evidence that the title to the land covered by said receipt has passed from the United States to the person named in
the receipt as having paid for the said land.

1120. Books of account.—In all suits the shop books and
books of account of either party, in which the charges and entries
shall have been originally made, shall be admissible in evidence
in favor of such party; but the credibility of such evidence shall
be judged of by the jury in case of a trial at law, and by the court
in case of a hearing in equity.

F§ggtions of tlga 12a.n<%‘f°ury4g;DuIri1bai'(v. Wri hit: Adqiiirlrilitratgg, 20wFt1la.,
446; inson v. i e, 7 a., ; oo er v. 0 son, ., 7 . at
proof uired from administrator.—Robinso'n v. Dibble’s_ Administrator, 17 Fla.,
457. W at roof required in case of death of party making entr1es.—Ib. As to
evidence of abits of deceased party making entry.-—Ib. Suppletory oath of part as against the decedent.—Ib. Only entries made soon after fact admissible.(grady v. Thigpin, 6 Fla, 668. May be transcribed from slate.-—Ib. Deliniteness

of -charges required.—Ib. Not confined to merchants.—Hooker v. Johnson, 6
Fla., 730. Requirements of admissibility discussed.—Ib.

1121. Comparison of Disputed Writings.—Comparison of a
disputed writing with any writing proved to the satisfaction of

the judge to be genuine, shall be permitted to be made by witnesses; and such writings, and the evidence of witnesses respecting the same, may be submitted to the jury, or to the court
in case of a trial by the court, as evidence of the genuineness, or
otherwise, of the writing in dispute.

1122. In suits between the State and individuals.—In
suits between the State and individuals, no claim for a credit

shall be allowed upon trial but such as shall appear to have been
presented to the comptroller for his examination, and by him
disallowed in whole or in part, unless it shall be proved to the
satisfaction of the court that the defendant is, at the time of the
trial, in possession of vouchers not before in his power to procure, and that he was prevented from exhibiting a claim for such
credit at the comptroller’s office by unavoidable accident.

ARTICLE 3.

OF DEPOSITIONS.

Deposit-ions upon commissions. Sections . .. . . . . . . . . . . . 1123-1132
Before justices of the peace. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1133-1137
In rei perpetuam, etc. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1138-1141
Commission to prove foreign wills. Section . . . . . . . . . . . 1142
Provisions applicable to all the foregoing commissions and deposi- ‘

tions. -Rec-tions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1143-1147

DEPOSITION S UPON COMMISSION.

1123. The right to a commission.——Any party to a cause at
law shall have a right (at any time after the filing of the declaration) to obtain a commission from the court in which the cause is
pending, to take the testimony of any witness whose testimony
he may require, and who may reside out of the county in which
the cause is pending, or be bound on a voyage to sea, or be about

to go out of the State to remain until after the trial of the cause,
or be very aged or infirm. Or he may obtain a commission to
take the testimony of any witness upon making and filing in the
court an oath that he believes that a material part of his claim or
defense depends upon the testimony of such witness.

1124. Manner of obtaining a commission.—The party wishing to obtain a commission shall propound written interrogatories to the witness, and shall deliver to the opposite party or his
attorney a reasonable time before applying for such commission a
copy of such interrogatories, together with a notice in writing
setting forth the reasons why the testimony of the witness is to
be taken upon commission, the date at which the application for
the commission will be made, and the name of the commissioner
for the plaintifff. The original of such interrogatories and notice
shall be filed in the court from which the commission is to issue.

If the adverse party has no attorney and does not reside in
this State, the applicant shall file his interrogatories as aforesaid,
and shall give notice by advertisement in a newspaper printed -in
the county, once each week for four consecutive weeks, in which
advertisement shall be stated the name of the witness, the title of
the cause, and the time of the application for a commission.
Upon proof of the advertisement to the clerk, or to the court if it
has no clerk, a commission shall issue as if there had been personal service.

1125. Gross-interrogatories and notice by opposite party.-—
The opposite party may file in the court, on or before the day
named in the notice of application, his cross-interrogatories, and a
written statement of the name of the commissioner selected by him
to assist in the execution of the commission, and shall serve, before the day named in said application, upon the applicant or his
attorney a copy of suchcross-interrogatories and statement.

1126. Redirect interrogatories:-If the applicant shall, afte
seeing the cross-interrogatories, desire to propose redirect interrogatories, he shall deliver a copy of the same to the opposite party,
together with a notice of the time when a commission upon direct,
cross-interrogatories and redirect interrogatories will be applied
for, and shall file the original redirect interrogatories in the court.

1127. Issuance of the commission.—At the time mentioned
in the application the clerk, or the court if it has no clerk, shall

issue a commission to take the testimony of the witnesses desired.
He shall name in the commission the commissioner selected by
the applicant, and the commissioner selected by the opposite party, if he has selected one; shall attach to the commission all interrogatories, cross-interrogatories and redirect interrogatories which
may have been filed at the time of ‘its issuance, and shall deliver
the same to the applicant.

1128. Form of commission.—The commission shall be signed
and bear teste as other writs, and shall be in the following form:

STATE or FLORIDA,
. County.

Byhishonor. .............judgeofthe
. . . . . . . . . court of the (district or county, as the
case may be)
To. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .(esquireor)esquires,
greeting: Whereas, there is a certain controversy now depending in the said court, between. . . . . . . . . .
and...........,andwhereas,.........
is a material witness in said matter of controversy, and can
not attend our said court in person without manifest inconvenience: KNOW YE, That we, reposing special trust and confidence in your prudence and fidelity, have appointed you, and
you are hereby authorized and required, to cause the said
. '. . . . . . . . . . . . . personallytocome before you
and after being duly sworn, and having duly sworn him, to
examine him concerning the said matter of controversy, agreeably to the interrogatories hereunto annexed; and the answers
to the same, being plainly and distinctly written, you are to send
closed up under your hands and seals to our said court, to be
held on the... ...dayof. . . . .. .. . .next,together with this writ, and all papers hereto attached. Witness,
the honorable. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .,judgeofsaid
court,thisthe . . . . . dayof. . . . .A.D. 18 . ., and of
the independence of the United States the . .l . . year.

Effect of indeflniteness as to witness.—Fla. R’y. & Navigation Co. v. Webster, 25 Fla., 394.

1129. The execution of the commission.—The commissioner or commissioners taking the testimony shall make oath
before a notary public or judicial officer of the State or county
where the testimony is taken, that he is not of kin to, nor the
attorney, nor the agent of either party, nor interested in the result, and that he will well and faithfully perform the duties of
commissioner. Such oath shall be in writing, and returned with
the commission. The commissioner shall also swear each witness before taking his deposition.

1130. Parties may be present at the examination.—The
parties or their attorneys may be present at the examination of

any witness, and after all the written interrogatories, crossinterrogatories and redirect interrogatories shall have been propounded to the witness, may propound other interrogatories to
him germane to the subject matter of the written interrogatories,
which further interrogatories and the answers thereto shall be
written down by the commissioners, or by some one at their request, and shall become a part of the depositions.

1131. Return of the commission.1. ENDORSEMENT AND ‘ADDBEss.—Commissioners, when they

enclose the interrogatories, answers and commission to be returned to the court, shall write their names across the seals of the
envelope and give the packet such direction as will enable the
court to know that it was intended for the court, and applicable
to some particular cause therein; and the usual abbreviations or
initials of office, and of the Christian names of the commissioners,
postmasters, magistrates, clerks, attorneys and witnesses shall be
deemed sufficient.

2. RETURN BY MAIL AND BY PRIVATE HAND.—A packet containing commissions, interrogatories and answers may be returned
to the court by a party in the cause, or by any other person, or by
mail; if returned by private hand, the person so returning it
must make oath before the clerk, or before the court if it has no
clerk, that he received the packet from one of the commissioners;
that it has been in his possession ever since, and has not been
opened or altered. Any person, other than the clerk of the court,
taking said packet from the- post-office, must, when he delivers
it in court, or to the clerk, swear that he received it from the
postmaster, his deputy or assistant; that it has been in his possession ever since, and has not been opened or altered.

1132. Opening depositions.—When interrogatories and answers have been returned they may be opened by order of_ the

court or consent of the parties, which consent shall be endorsed

on the envelope, and they shall remain with the clerk, subject to .

the inspection of either party.
All the requirements of the preceding section must be complied with before they are opened.

Court cannot compel party to read depositions taken by him. Other party
may read them.—Broughton v. Crosby, 9 1a., 254. .

TAKING DEPOSITIONS BEFORE A JUSTICE OF THE PEACE.

1133. Grounds for taking'.—Depositions may be taken before any justice of the peace under the same circumstances under

which a commission may be obtained as provided in this chapter.

1134. Notice of taking.—Before such deposition shall be
taken, the justice of the peace shall givenotice in writing to the
adverse party or his attorney of the time and place of taking
such depositions. Such notice shall be served at least twenty-four
hours before the taking, in addition to one day for every twenty
miles of travel by the party served to the place of taking the depositions. Service of the notice may be made upon the party or his
attorney personally, or by leaving a copy at the place of abode of
the party. If such service can not be made, notice by advertisement may be given as provided in section 1124. At the time
of serving the notice, the justice of the peace shall also serve a
copy of the written interrogatories to be propounded by the party
requiring the examination, and upon the examination the witness shall, after having been duly sworn by the justice, answer
first the written interrogatories, and then such other interrogatories germane to the subject matter of the written interrogatories
as the parties may propound to him, and the testimony shall be
taken down in writing by the justice or by some person appointed
by him, and shall be read to and subscribed by the deponent.

1135. Certificate by justice.—-The justice shall annex to the
deposition a certificate stating the time and manner of taking it,
the person at whose request, and the cause or suit in which it
was taken, and the reason for taking it; and stating also whether
the adverse party attended, and, if not, stating the notice, if any,
which was given to him.

1136. Return of the deposition.——The deposition shall be filed
by the justice personally in the court before which the cause is
pending, or shall be sent by mail by him and shall remain sealed
until opened by the court.

1137. Objections to the witness or depositions. - Every objection to the competency or credibility of the deponent, and to the
propriety of any questions put to him, or of any answers made
by him, may be made when the deposition is produced, in the
same manner as if the Witness were personally examined on the
trial.

Objection to competency .of witness may be made when deposition offered.
—Walls v. Endell. 17 Fla. 478.

DEPOSITIONS IN REI PERPETUAM, ETC.

1138. Manner of obtaining commission.—Any person desirous
of perpetuating the testimony of any witness living in or out of
this State, shall file in the office of a clerk of the circuit court
the interrogatories to be propounded to the witness, and a statement setting forth briefly and substantially his title, claim or interest in or to the subject matter concerning which he desires to
perpetuate the evidence, together with the names and residence
of all persons known to him to claim an interest in the subject
matter or any_ part thereof, and the names of the witnesses proposed to be examined. Upon such filing, the clerk shall cause a
notice of the application for the commission, accompanied by a
copy of the interrogatories and statement, to be served on the
person named in such statement as claiming an interest in the
subject matter concerning which the deposition is to be taken, at
least fifteen days before the issuance of the commission. He shall
also, if the applicant require it, publish in a newspaper published
in said county once each week for four successive weeks, a notice
to all persons interested in said subject matter, stating the time
and place when the application for a commission will be made,
the name of the applicant and the name of the witness, and the
subject matter of the examination. Upon the expiration of the
time fixed in the notice, or in the advertisement, if there shall
have been one, the clerk shall issue a commission to two commissioners to be named by him, to take the testimony of the witness
mentioned upon the direct interrogatories, and other interrogatories which any person claiming an interest in the subject matter may have filed.

1139. Execution of such commission. —The right of the
parties to file interrogatories and proceedings in connection
therewith, the execution and return of the commission and proceedings in connection therewith, shall be in accordance with the
provisions relating to commissions.

1140. Return and record of the depositions.—The depositions, with all interrogatories, and the commission shall be returned to the clerk who issued the commission, who shall cause
the same, together with the statements of the applicant, and the
notice and advertisement, if any, to be recorded in the registry of
deeds in the county where the land lies, if the deposition relates
to real estate, ‘otherwise in the county where the parties, or some
of them, reside. After such recording, the original papers shall
remain in the office of said clerk.

1141. The effect of the deposition.—If any suit shall, either
at the time of taking such deposition or at any time afterward, be
pending between the person at whose request it was taken and
the persons named in the said written statement, or any of them,
who were notified as aforesaid, or any persons claiming under
either of the said parties, respectively, concerning the title, claim
or. interest set forth in the statement, or, if the notice by advertisement hereinbefore provided for shall have been given, then between the person at whose request it was taken or any person
claiming under him concerning the claim, title or interest set forth
in the statement, and any other person, the deposition so taken,
or a certified copy of it from the registry of deeds, may be used in
such suit in the same manner and subject to the same conditions
and objections as if it had been originally taken for the said suit.

COMMISSIONS TO PROVE FOREIGN WILL.

1142. Commission to prove foreign wi1l.—If any will shall
be produced to a county judge for probate, and any witness or
witnesses attesting the same shall reside out of this State, such
judge may issue a commission, to which shall be annexed such
will, directed to any person who, by the laws of the country
where such witness may be found, is authorized to administer an
oath, empowering him to take and certify the attestation of said
witness. . If the person to whom such commission shall be directed shall duly certify that the witness personally appeared and

made oath or affirmation, as the case may be, that the testator
signed and published the writing annexed to such commission as
his last will and testament, and that he subscribed his name

thereto in his presence and at his request, such oath or affirma-.

tion shall have the same operation, and the will shall be recorded
in like manner, as if such oath or affirmation had been made in
the court whence the commission issued.

PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL COMMISSIONS AND DEPOSITIONS
THEREUNDER.

1143. Attendance of witness. Commissioners may issue a
subpmna. -Any commissioners appointed to take depositions may

issue a subpoena directed to the witness mentioned in said com-,
mission, commanding said witness to be and appear before said
commissioners at a certain time and place (within the county in
which said witness resides) to be designated in said subpoena.

1144. Punishment of witness.—If said witness refuse or neglect to appear before said commissioner or commissioners, in
obedience to said subpoena, said commissioner or commissioners
may issue an attachment for said witness so refusing or neglecting to appear, which attachment shall be directed to the sheriff,
who shall have power to arrest the person so refusing to answer
and bring him before the commissioner or commissioners, who
shall have power to imprison said witness until he consents to
answer before said commissioners, and the witness so offending
shall pay all costs which may accrue. Or the commissioner or
commissioners may report the default of the said witness to the
court from which the commission issued, or to the circuit court
of the county in which the deposition is to be taken, and said
courts shall have power to punish the said witness for contempt
of court. '

1145. Power of commissioners from other states.—-Commissioners appointed by the courts of the United States, or of any
of the states or territories of the Uni_ted States, to take the testimony of any person residing within the limits of this State, shall
have as full and ample powers as if they were appointed by the
courts of this State.

1146. Use of deposition after non-suit.—When the plaintifff
in any suit shall discontinue it or become non-suit, and another
suit shall afterward be commenced for the same cause between the
same parties or their respective representatives, all depositions
lawfully taken for the first suit may be used in the second, in the
same manner and subject to the same conditions and objections
as if originally taken for the second suit: Provided, That the
deposition shall have been duly filed in the court where the first
suit is pending, and shall remain in the custody of the court
from the termination of the first suit until the commencement of
the second. 1147. Failure of applicant to attend taking of depositions.If any person shall give a notice to take a deposition and shall

fail to take or cause the same to be taken, the party notified, if
attending agreeably to the notice, shall be entitled to receive four
cents for every mile that he shall necessarily travel in going to
and returning from the place assigned to take the deposition, and
two ($22) dollars per day consumed in such travel, to be allowed
by the court where the suit is pending, and for which execution
may issueaaccording to law.

The provisions of this section shall not be extended to any
case where the failure to take the deposition shall arise from the
non-attendance of the witness, or any unavoidable cause; and
the oath of the applicant shall be sufficient to establish the unavoidable cause.

CHAPTER XVI.
OF J UROR8.
Airrxcu: 1.-—Qualifications. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1148

2.—Disqualifications. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1149

3.—Exemptions. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1150

4.——Procurement of. Sections . . . . . . . . . : . . . . 1151-1159

5.——Chal1enges. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1160

6.-Compensation. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1161, 1162

7.—Penalty upon officer failing to draw or summon. Section 1163

8.-Failure of juror to attend. Section . . . . . . . . . . 1164

9—Fund for payment of. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . 1165-1170
ARTICLE 1.

QUALIFICATIONS OF‘ JUROIE.

1148. Qualifications of jurors.—(See Chapter 4015, section 2,
act June 8, 1891, Appendix.)

ARTICLE 2.

DISQUALIFICATIONB OF JURORB.

1149. Persons disqualified.1. BY CRIME.-—N0 person who is under prosecution for any

crime, or has been convicted of bribery, forgery, perjury, or larceny, unless such person shall have been restored to civil rights,

. shall be qualified to be a juror.

A juror who believes that he is under prosecution for crime is properly excused.—Ellis v. State, 25 F19... 702. '

2. BY OFFICIAL 1>osI'r1oN.—Neither the governor nor his cabinet officers, nor any sheriff or his deputy, assessor of taxes,
collector of revenue, county treasurer, clerks of courts, judges,
justices of the peace, county commissioners, or United States
officials shall be qualified to be jurors.

Assessor of taxes for city or town not disqualified or exempt, but court may
excuse him.—Ellis v. State, 25 Fla., 7022.

3. BY INFIRMI'rY.—No person not of sound mind and discretion shall be qualified to be a juror. ~

4. BY INTEREST IN THE SUBJECT MATTER or THE cAUsE.—
No person interested in any issue to be tried therein shall be a
juror in any cause; but no person shall- be disqualified from sitting in the trial of any suit in which the State or any county or
municipal corporation is a party by reason of the fact that such
person is a resident or tax-payer within the State, or such county
or municipal corporation.

Holders of bonds similar to those in suit disqualified.—Jefi'erson Co. v.
Lewis. 20 F1a., 980.

 

Disqualification of juror avoids verdict.—Ladd v. State, 17 Fla., 215.

ARTICLE 3.

EXEMPTIONS FROM JURY DUTY.

1150. Persons exempt from jury duty.—The following persons, and none others, shall be exempt from jury duty:

1. BY REASON or AGE 0R BODILY INFIRMITY.—-All persons
more than sixty-five years of age, and all persons subject to any
bodily infirmity amounting to disabilityfg

2. BY REASON or POSITION oR occUPAT1oN.—Attorneys and
counsellors at law, officers of the university, officers of colleges,
preceptors and teachers of incorporated academies, teachers of
common schools, practicing physicians and surgeons, phaimacists,
ministers of the gospel, one miller to each grist mill, one ferryman
to each licensed ferry, telegraph operators, all superintendents,
engineers and train dispatchers of any canal or railroad in operation, ten active members of any steam tire company, ten active
members of any hand lire company, six active members of any
hose company, twenty active members of any hook and ladder
company, all members of the State militia when in active service
under call by the sheriff of the county or by the governor. The
officers of each fire, hose and hook and ladder company shall, on
the first day in each January, file with the clerk of the circuit court
of the county a list of the members of their respective companies
which said companies have respectively selected to be exempt for
the ensuing year, and the ‘county commissioners shall omitthe
said names from the list to be selected by them. Only the persons named on such lists shall be exempt, and if no lists be filed
before the selection by the county commissioners, there shall be
no exemption.

ARTICLE. 4

PROCUREMENT OF JURORS.

SELECTION AND DRAWING or reasons mom Lrsr.

1151. Selection of jurors.—(See Chapter 4015, section 2, act
June 8, 1891, Appendix.)

Omission of clerk to record certificate not fatal ‘to jury.—Keech v. State 15
F1a.,591. Furnishing list of more than three hundred is irregular and fatal.Gladden v. State, 13 Fla., 6123.

1152. Drawing jurors from the list. See chapter 4015
section 3, June 8, 1891, Appendix.) The ju ge shall have the
power to hold any juror over beyond /the end of the week for
which he was drawn, if such juror be engaged in the trial of a
case in hich no verdict has been rendered. No person shall be
drawn to serve on a petit jury more than once during the same
calendar year.

The drawing of said jurors shall be publicly made in the
court-house of each county, and the time and place of said drawing shall be advertised ten days before the day of said drawing
by written notice posted at three places in said county, and the
sheriff shall proclaim the meeting and.its purposes at the door
of said court-house on the day of the drawing of said jurors.

j&——..—..
j———

1153. Drawing of jurors for county court from the list.Jurors for the county courts shall be drawn from the names

provided by the county commissioners a11d placed in the jury
box as provided in sections 2 and 3, chapter 4015, Laws of Florida, and such jurors shall be drawn by the clerk of the county
court, in the presence of the sheriff’ and a justice of the peace,
without notice, at least ten days before the term of the court for
which ‘such jurors are drawn to serve; not more than twelve
jurors shall be drawn for a term of court.

SUMMONING OF JURORS DRAWN FROM LIST.

1154. Issuance of venire.—The clerk of the circuit or
county court, as the case may be, shall, ten days at least before
the first day of court, issue and delivergto the sheriff a venire for
the petitjury, under the seal of the court, commanding him to
summon the persons so drawn as petit jurors to appear before the
said court at or before the‘ hour of 11 o’clock A. M., on the first
day of the term thereof, to serve as petit jurors.

1155. Summoning and return.—The sheriff shall summon
the persons named in such venirc-s to attend such court as petit

jurors, at least four days previous to the sitting of such court, by
giving personal notice to each person, or by leaving a written notice at his place of residence with some person over fifteen years
of age. He shall return such venire to the court at the opening

thereof, specifying those who were summoned and the manner in
which each person was notified.

1156. Procurement of jurors for special terms.-—Whenever
there shall be called a special term of any circuit or county
court, the judge thereof shall have power in vacation to order the
clerk thereof to draw petit jurors for such special term, and to
issue venires for the same in the manner provided by law.

PROCUREMENT OF JURORS NOT DRAWN FROM THE LIST.

1157. Procurement of jurors not drawn from list.—Whenever for any cause no petit jurors or less than the whole number
have been drawn or summoned in the manner provided by law
for any regular or special term of the circuit or county courts of
this State, it shall be lawful for said courts to issue a special
venire for a sufficient number of such jurors for said ‘term, to be
directed to the sheriff, commanding him to draw from the box
provided for in section 3, Chapter 4015, Laws of Florida of 1891,
or to summon from by-standers, or the body of the county at
large, the number of qualified jurors so ordered.

1158. Deficiency of jurors to try any cause.—When by
reason of challenge or otherwise a sufficient number of jurors

drawn and summoned can not be obtained for the trial of any
cause in the county or circuit courts, the court shall cause qualified jurors to be summoned by the sheriff from the by-standers, or
from the county at large, to complete the panel.

No special venire nor formal return necessary.—Green v. State, 17 F1a., 669.
Order may be in alternative.—Keech v. State, 1.5 Fla., 591. Special venire for
talesmen; from whom jurors summoned.—Gladden v. State. 13 Fla... 6223.

1159. Denciency in county.—Whenever it shall appear,
upon an examination of the books of registration of any county,
that there is not a sufficient number of registered voters to form a
grand and petit jury, the judge of the circuit court, upon being
notified of the fact by the clerk of the circuit court of any such
county, may order all cases pending for trial in the circuit court
of any such county transferred to some other county within his
circuit for trial, and indictments may be obtained (against persons
charged with crimes committed in any county not having a sufficient number of registered voters qualified to form a grand and
petit jury) in any county within the circuit to which such county
is attached or belongs.

ARTICLE 5.

1160. Challenge of petit jurors.—(See Section 1086.)

ARTICLE 6.

(X)MPEN8A'l‘ION OF JUltOR8.

1161. Per diam and milea.ge.—Jurors in the circuit and
county courts shall receive two dollars for each day of attendance,

and ten cents per mile for going and returning by the most practicable route. In courts of justices of the peace. or of county
judges they. shall receive fifty cents per day and ten cents mileage
as in the circuit court. Those who shall attend on any of the
days of the term when the presiding judge is absent, or being
present does not hold the session of the court, shall be entitled to
receive the same compensation they would have received had the
court been in actual session.

1162. Meals for jurors.—When a jury sits more than
twelve hours, the sheriff may, by order of the court, provide them

with three meals per day, the expense of said meals not to exceed
one dollar per day for each juror, and said expense to be taxed
against and paid by the State.

ARTICLE 7.

PENALTY UPON 0FF'ICEI$ F'A1LII\'G TO DRAW OR SUMMON JUROIE.

1163. Punishment.—When, by a neglect of any of the
duties required by this chapter to be performed by any of the
officers or persons herein mentioned, the jurors to be returned
shall not be duly drawn and summoned to attend court, every
person guilty of such neglect shall pay a fine not exceeding‘
twenty dollars (to be imposed by the court) into the treasury of
the county in which the offense is committed.

ARTICLE 8.

FAILURE OF JUROR TO ATPEND.

1164. Penalty:-If any person duly drawn and summoned
to attend as a juror in any court shall neglect to attend without
any sufficient excuse, he shall pay a fine not exceeding twenty
dollars, which shall be imposed by the court to which the jury
was summoned, and shall be paid into the county treasury.

ARTICLE 9.

FUNDS FOR PAYMENT OF JURORS (AND STATE WITNIEBE) IN CIRCUIT, COUNTY, AND
CRIMINAL OOURIB.

1165. Procurement of the money by the clerk.-Within
four weeks of the commencement of any term of the circuit

court, county court, or criminal court in and for any county,
whether the same be a regular, special, or adjourned term, the
clerk of the said courts respectively shall make an estimate of
the amount necessary for the pa.yment of jurors and witnesses
payable by the State at said term of court, and shall forward such
estimate to the comptroller of the State, and, at the time of forwarding such estimate, the clerk shall make his requisition upon
the comptroller for the amount of such estimate, which amount
the comptroller may reduce if in his judgment the requisition is
excessive. Upon receipt of such estimate, accompanied with a
requisition for the estimated amount, the comptroller shall draw
his warrant upon the treasurer for the amount approved by him,
upon which warrant the treasurer shall pay or transmit the
amount to the clerk ; unless the comptroller shall have reason to
believe that the amount appropriated by the legislature is insufficient to meet all expenses for jurors and witnesses payable by
the State in all the counties at the next ensuing terms of said
courts, in which event he may apportion the monies in the treasury appropriated for that purpose among the several counties,
basing such apportionment upon the amount expended for the
payment of jurors and witnesses payable by othe State in each
county at the last regular terms of said courts, and in such case
he shall draw his warrant only for the amount so apportioned to
each county. '

1166. Disbursement by clerk.¥All monies procured as
aforesaid shall be disbursed by the said clerk in payment of jurors

and witnesses payable by the State for their legal compensation
for services at the term of court for which said monies were
drawn, and for no other purpose. :

1167. Supplying denciency in estimate .—Should the compensation to jurors and State witnesses at any term of the said several courts exceed the amount estimated by the clerk, and thereforee be insufficient to pay in full said jurors and witnesses, said
clerk shall make his further requisition upon the comptroller for
the amount necessary to pay such deficiency, and the amount required shall be drawn from the treasury and transmitted to the
clerk in the same manner as the original requisition or order.

1168. Supplying denciency in funds.—When the amount appropriated for the payment of jurors and State witnesses is insufficient to pay in full all the jurors and witnesses in attendance upon
the courts at any term, and themonies appropriated for that purpose shall be apportioned among the several counties as hereinbefore provided, the clerk shall apportion the monies received by

him pro rate among the jurors and witnesses payable by the State
in attendance at the term of court, and shall give to each juror
and witness payable by the State a certificate certifying the
amount of compensation still due him, which certificate shall be
allowed by the comptroller as other demands against the State.

1169. Making and disposition of pay-rolls.—The said clerks
shall immediately at the close of every term make out pay-rolls
in triplicate, which shall contain the name of every juror and
witness paid by the State who shall have attended such session of
court; which pay-rolls shall state the number of days which each
such witness and juror has attended court, and the number of
miles traveled, and the amount of- money which each such witness and juror is entitled to for his services during such term of
court. The form of such pay-roll shall be fixed by the comptroller. Witnesses and jurors shall sign the same in the presence of
a witness, and the judge of the court shall approve the same, if
found correct. The clerk shall within ten days after the adjournment of court forward two of such pay-rolls to the comptroller,
and the third shall remain on file in his office, and he shall
transmit to the comptroller any unexpended fund in his hands.

1170. Accounting and payment to the comptroller.—The
clerk shall, within two weeks after the adjournment of any term,

render to the comptroller a full statement of his account for
monies received and disbursed by him under the foregoing provisions, and pay over any balance in his hands; and should any
such clerk fail to account for and pay over promptly all monies
so paid him, the sureties on his official bond shall be held liable
and responsible lbr the same; and it shall be the duty of the
comptroller to report to the governor any failure on the part of
the clerk to fully.report and faithfully account for any such
monies, and the governor is authorized, on such report from the
comproller, to suspend from office any’ such defaulting clerk until
the next session of the legislature.

CHAPTER XVII.

J UDGMEN TS.

(For judgments by default, see Secs. 1082 to 1036.)

Airrrcmc 1.—Form of. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1171, 1172
2.—Lien of. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1173-1175
3.-Interest on. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . 1176
4.—Subrogation of sureties. Section . . . . . . . . 1177
5 —Invalidity of power of attorney for confessing. '

Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1178
6.—-Judgment against one in suit against several.
Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1179
ARTICLE 1.

FORM OF JUDGMENT8.

1171. Genera.1ly.—In all actions where the plaintifff recovers a sum of money, the amount to which he is entitled may be
awarded to him by the judgment generally, without any distinction being therein made as to whether such sum is recovered by
way of debt or damages.

Form of, against extr.—Cooper v. Livingston, 19 F1a., 684. Enti-ly “ verdict
“ for plaintifff— et writ issue ” is not judgment.—Stark v. Billings, 15 1a., 318.

1172. Upon bonds.—-In all actions which shall be brought
upon any bond for payment of money, wherein the plaintifff shall
recover, judgment shall be entered for the principal and interest
due thereon, and the costs of suit, and execution shall issue thereon accordingly.

ATRICLE 2.

LIEN OF‘ JUDGMENT8.

1173. In counties where 'rendered.——Every judgment at law
(and decree in equity) which shall be entered in.any of the circuit courts of this State shall create a lien and be binding upon
the real estate of the defendant in the county where rendered.

Lien from rendition.—Union Bank v. Powell, 3 Fla., 175. Effect of death of
defendant on lien.-Ib.

1174. In other counties.-—Such judgments and decrees shall
create a lien upon the real estate of the defendant situated in any
other county than the one in which the same shall have been
rendered, when a certified transcript of the said judgment or
decree shall have been recorded in the county in which the real
estate so sought to be bound may be. situated.

1175. Of judgments of county courts, justices of the peace,
etc.—-Judgments of county courts, county judge’s courts and

justices of the peace shall become a lien on the real estate of the
defendant situated in any county, from the time of the tiling in
the office of the clerk of the circuit court for said county of a
transcript of such judgment and the entry thereof by the clerk
in a book to be kept by him for such purpose. ~

Lien not effected by want of right to execution.—Howe v. Robinson, 20
F111,. 352. Liens of senior and junior judgments»-—Ib.; Mosele v. Edwards, 2
F121,, 429. Lien upon undivided interest follows fund arising rom partition;
form of remedy in such case.—Eldridge v. Post, 20 F1a., 579. Lien of attaches
to alter acquired real estate.—Harrison v. Roberts, 6 Fla., 711. Lien not lost by
delay in suing out execution.—Moseley v. Edwards, 2 F1a., 429. Is constructive
notice to the world.—Ib. Not displaced by sale under junior judgment.—Ib.
Does not revent debtor, remaining solvent, from conveying good title to real
estate.— owse v. Judson, 1 Fla., 133. '

ARTICLE 3.

INTEBET UPON J UDGMRNTS.

1176. At the rate of eight per cent.—A1l judgments (and
decrees) shall bear interest at the rate of eight per centum per

annum.

ARTICLE 4.

EEUBROGATION OF SURETIE3 TO LIEN OF A JUDGMENT

‘,',_1177. Rights of sureties.—Any person paying money as
surety for the principal in any bond or note, which he has signed
as surety, upon which judgment has been obtained, shall have the
same right to control the said judgment and collect the same, with
principal, interest and costs, as the plaintifff creditor would have
had if the debt had not been paid.

Such judgment, and execution thereon, shall have the same
lien on property of the principal as though the surety were the

original plaintifff.

ARTICLE 5.

INVALIDITY OF’ POWBR8 OF‘ A'l'I‘ORNEY TO CONPE98.

(£31178. Declaration of inva.lid.ity.—All powers of attorney ‘for
confessing or suffering judgment to pass by default or otherwise,

and all general releases of error, made or to be made by any person whatsoever within this State before such action brought, shall

be absolutely null and void.

CHAPTER XVIII.

MOTIONS FOR NEW TRIALS, AND IN ARREST OF JUDGMENT.

ARTICLE l.—Motions for new trials. Section . . . . . . 1180
2.-Motions in arrest of judgment. Sections . . 1181-1183

ARTICLE 1.

MOTIONS FOR NEW TRIALS.

1180. When and how to be made, and effect of.—Every
motion for a new trial shall be made by filing the ‘motion and

the reasons therefore in writing in the court, or by placing the
motion and the reasons therefore on the motion docket, within
four days after the verdict shall have been rendered, and during
the same term; and such motion standing over from one term to
another shall operate as a supersedeas only when so ordered by

"the court. And the entry of such motion shall not prevent the

entry of judgment on the verdict.

ARTICLE 2.

MOTIONS IN ARREST OF‘ JUDGMENT, ETC.

1181. When and how to be made, and effect of.—Motions
in arrest of judgment shall be made within the same time, and

in the same manner, and shall operate as a supersedeas only under the same circumstances, as motions for new trials, and the
entry thereof shall not prevent the entry of judgment upon the
verdict.

Not proper remedy for wrong verdict.—Bacon v. State, 22 Fla., 51. Only
reaches error apparent on record.—Jordan v. State, ib. 528. Further defined.Sed ick v. Dawkins, 18 Fla., 335. To arrest. judgment for plaintifff, bad, if
dec ration .-—Hyer v. Vaughn, 18 Fla., 647. Cannot be changed to motion
for new tria at subsequent term.——Sedgwick v. Dawkins, 16 Fla., 198.

1182. Not to be granted for certain defects—No judgment
after the verdict of a jury, or an award of arbitrators, shall be

stayed or reversed for any defect or fault in the original writ, or
for a variance between the writ and declaration, or for any mispleading, insufficient pleading, or misjoining of the issue, or for
any faulty count in the declaration, where the same declaration

contains one count which is good, or for any informality in enter- '

ing up the judgment by the clerk, or for any imperfection, omission, defect or lack of form in any pleading not affecting the
merits of the cause, or for any irregularity in any writ of vemlre
facias, or in the drawing, summoning or empaneling of petit
jurors, unless the party making the objection was injured by the
irregularity, or unless the objection was made before the returning of the verdict. '

Ap lied in case of variance between writ and declaration.-Robinson v.
Hartridpge, 13 Fla., 501. Not for matter waived in p1eadings.—Dawkins v. Smithwick, 4 Fla., 158. Does not_cure the want of an issue.—-Hopkins v. Burney, 2
Fla., 42. Cures want of statement of damages in declaration ‘in assumpszt.—
Broward v. Doggett, 2 Fla., 49.

1183. Proceedings upon arrest of judgment.—When a judgment shall be arrested, the plaintifff shall not be compelled to

bring a new suit, if the first writ or summons shall be sufficient,
but the court may order new pleadings to commence where the
error causing the arrest began, and the party committing it shall
be liable to the costs occasioned thereby.

Or if the motion for arrest, or for judgment non obstante 'veredicto, be because of the alleged non-averment of some alleged material fact, or allegation or other cause, the party whose pleading
is alleged or adjudged to be therein defective may amend by inserting the omitted fact, or other matter which, if true, would
remedy the alleged defect; and such amendment may he pleaded

‘ to by the opposite party within such time as the court may order,

and the proceedings for the trial of any issues on such pleadings
shall be the same as in ordinary actions.

CHAPTER XIX.

OF EXECUTIONS.

ARTICLE I.—General1y.

Ch. Sa. upon judgments, abolished. Section . 1184
Right to, and life of. Section . . . . . . . . 1185
Teste and direction of. Section . . . . . . . 1186
Time of issuance of. Section . . . . . . . . 1187
Return of and collection under. Sections . . 1188,1189
Property subject to levy. Section . . . . . . 1190
Release of property by defendant. Sections . 1191, 1194

Stay of execution. Sections . . . . . . . . . 1195, 1196

' Claims by third persons. Sections . . . . . . 1197-1201
Sale under execution. Sections . . . . . . . 1202-1205
Disposition of proceeds of sale. Sections . . . 1206, 1207
2.—Against equities of redemption. Sections. . . 1208,1209
3.—Against corporations. Sections . . . . . . . . 1210,1211
4.—Against stock in corporations. Sections . . . . 1212-1218
5.—Against stockholders for corporate debts. Section 1219

ARTICLE 1.

GENERALLY.

1184. Ga. Ba, on judgment abo1ished.—In no case shall a
capias ad satisfacwlendum be issued upon a judgment, nor shall
the body of any defendant be subject to arrest or confinement for
the payment of money, except it be for fines imposed by lawful
authority.

, 1186. Right to, and life of executions.—The plaintifff shall
be entitled to his execution at any time within three years after
the rendition of any judgment or decree, and, upon the issuance
of his execution, shall be entitled to renew the same upon the return to the clerk’s office of _the original execution, from time to
time for twenty years, unless ‘the same be sooner satisfied.

Lien of jud ent not affected by want ‘of right to an execution.-llowe v.
Robinson, 20 F ., 352. Sci. fa. to revive does not lie against dissolved co ration, when.-Ib. Execution can only issue on judgment or order fixing lia ility
of defendant.—Davidson v. Floyd, 153 Fla., 667. Davidson v. Seegar, 15 Fla., 671.
Service of sci.fa. quare., etc.—Efl'e(-t of actual service and of two returns niln'l.—
Barrow v. Bailey, 5 Fla., 9. Issued in three years may be renewed without  fa.
u n return of and filing writ.——Jordan v. Pett , 5 Fla., 326. Sci. fa. to revive
a r death of defendant-Union bank v. Powel , 3 Fla., 175. Sci. fa. to revive
'udgment, definition, form, practice and judgment.—Bim_vn v. Harley, 2 Fla., 159.

xecution sued out after time voidable only by defendant.—Moseley v. Edwards,
2 Fla., 429. Not impeacbable col1aterally.—lb.

1186. Teste and direction of.—All writs of execution shall
bear date as of the day on which they shall be issued, and shall
be directed to all and every the sheriffs of the State of Florida,
and shall be of full force throughout the State.

1187. Time of issuance.—Writs of fieri facias upon judgments shall issue upon request of the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, immediately after judgment rendered.

1188. Return of, and collection under.—A1l writs of fieri
facias shall be made returnable when satisfied, and the officer to

whom the same shall come shall proceed to collect the amount
thereof by the next succeeding term of the court after the receipt of such execution if the same can be done consistently with
law; and shall, on the first day of every succeeding term of the
court after the receipt of the execution, make a return of his
doings thereon in a book to be kept in the records of the court
issuing the same, and all receipts shall be endorsed on the executionIn force till satisfied. Duty of sheriff as to return. Effect of return before
satisfaction.-—Mercer v. Hooker, 5 Fla., 277. Practice as to ruling sheriff in case
of conflicting executions.--Willis v. Sheppard, 2 Fla., 397. Right of plaintifff to
require return of writ.—McLeod v. Ward, 9 Fla., 18.

1189. Execution against principals and sureties.—Where
there’ are’ executions against principals and sureties, or an execution against a principal and surety or sureties, it shall be the duty
of the sheriff or other officer to make the money out of the property of the principal, unless he be insolvent or has no property,
in which case the execution may proceed against the property of
the sureties.

Applied by analogy in equity.——Hendry V. Clardy, 8 Fla., 77.

1190. Property subject to levy.-—Lands and tenements,
goods and chattels, equities of redemption in real and personal

property, and stock in corporations, shall be subject to levy and
sale under execution. ~

RELEASE OF PROPERTY BY DEFENDANT.

1191. By substitution of other property.-—The defendant
in execution, his agent or attorney, shall at all times have it in

his power to release any property which may have been levied
on, by surrendering other property of a value "equivalent, in the
opinion of the officer levying the execution, to that released.

1192. By giving bond.-—'If a defendant in execution desires
to retake into his possession any property levied upon he may do
so, by executing a bond with two good and sufiicient sureties payable to the plaintifff, to be approved by the officer making the
levy, in a sum double the value of the property retaken, which
value shall be fixed by the officer holding the execution, conditioned for the forthcoming of the property retaken on the day of
sale designated in said bond.

1093. Failure to produce property, and its effect.—Should
the execution remain unpaid, and the parties to the bond fail to

produce said property by the day specified, said bond shall be
returned to the court from which the execution issued, as forfeited, and the clerk, or the court if it has no clerk, shall enter
up judgment forthwith, against the sureties for the value fixed as
aforesaid of the property so bonded, or if the value of the property exceed the amount of the execution, then for the amount of

the execution, and execution shall issue therefore. Such proceedings shall not affect the liability of the principal upon the origi
nal judgment. . 1194. No bonding of property on second execution.—No
bond as hereinbefore provided shall be allowed to be given for

property seized upon the execution on the judgment upon the
forfeited bond. ’ —

App1ied.—Robinson v. Yon, 8 Fla., 351.

STAY OF EXECUTION.

1196. Upon affidavit of illegality, and bond.—If any execution shall issue illegally, the defendant in execution, his agent or

attorney, may procure a stay of the same by making and delivering to the officer having the execution an affidavit stating the
illegality and whether any part of the execution be due, and a
bond payable to the plaintifff with two good and sufficient sureties in double the amount of the execution or the part of which a
stay is sought. Upon receipt of such affidavit and bond the
officer shall stay any proceedings on the execution and return the
bond and affidavit to the court from which the execution issued,
and such court shall pass upon the question of illegality as soon
as possible. If the execution be adjudged illegal in any part, the
court shall make an order staying it as to such part, but if it be
adjudged legal in whole or in part, the court shall (or if it has a
clerk, shall direct such clerk to) enter up judgment against the
principal and sureties on such bond for the amount of so much of
the execution as shall be adjudged to be legal, and execution
shall forthwith issue thereon.

Allegations equivalent’ to “issued il1ega}ly.”—Mathews v. Hillyer, 17 Fla.»

498. Duty of court as to passing upon illegalit .—Ib. Insufficient allegation.Mitchell v. Duncan, 7 Fla., 13. Instance of su 'cient bond.—Ib.

1196. Upon motion.—T he court before which an execution is
returnable may, on motion and notice to the adverse party, for
good cause, upon such terms as the court may impose, direct
a stay of the same, and the suspension of proceedings thereon.

Powers of court under.—Robinson v. Yon, 8 Fla., 351.

CLAIMS BY THIRD PERSONS.

1197. Procuring possession of the property.~If any person
other than the defendant in execution shall claim any property

levied upon, he may obtain possession of such property by filing
with the officer having such execution an afficavit made by himself, his agent or attorney, that the property claimed by him belongs to him, and a bond payable to the plaintifff with two good
and sufficient sureties to be approved by such officer in double
the value of the goods claimed, such value to be fixed by the
officer, conditioned to deliver said goods and chattels upon demand
of said officer if the same shall be adjudged to be the property of
the defendant in execution, and to pay the plaintifff all damages
which the jury on the trial of the right of property may find in

his favor if it should appear to the jury that such claim was interposed for the purpose of delay. Such claim may ‘be interposed by a married woman, and in all proceedings relating to the
same she shall have the same rights and powers as if she were a
femme sole. ‘

Affidavit must state individual names of partners, claimants.—Richardson V.
Smith, 21 Fla., 336.

1198. Duty of officer.—Upon receipt of such bond and affidavit, the said officer shall deliver the property to the claimant
and desist from any further proceedings under such levy until
the right of property shall have been tried, and shall, unless directed in writing by the plaintifff in execution, his agent or attorney, to dismiss the levy and levy upon other property of the

‘ defendant in execution, return said execution to the court whence

it issued, together with such affidavit and bond.

Execution not a part of pleadings; presumption as to return.—Betton v.
Willis. 1 Fla.. 226.

1199. Trial of the right of property.—At the next term of
said courtafter the return a jury shall be sworn to try the right of

property, and, if the verdict be in favor of the plaintifff and it
appear to the jury that the claim was interposed for delay, to
award the plaintifff such damages as it may think reasonable, not
exceeding twenty per cent., and, if the claimant shall three days
before the trial deny in writing, under oath filed in court, the
correctness of the appraisement of the value of the property by
the officer levying the execution, and the verdict be in favor of
the plaintifff, to fix the value of each item thereof, or of such items
thereof, as may be covered by such denial. '

Oath to jury is “to try the right of property” and not “to try the issue
“joined.” Betton v. Willis, 1 Fla.. 226. ’

1200. Judgment.—Upon the verdict of the jury, the court
shall enter judgment deciding theiright of property, and if the
verdict is for plaintifff‘, awarding a recovery by the plaintifff from
the defendant and his sureties, of the value (as fixed by the officer, or as fixed by the jury if fixed by it) ‘of such parts of the
property as the jury may have found subject to execution, and
awarding separately such damages as the jury may have awarded,
and of all costs attending the presentation and trial of the claim

1201. Execution, and satisfaction of judgment.—-If the execution issued upon such judgment be not paid, it shall be satisfied

in the usual manner, unless upon demand of the officer holding
it upon the principal and sureties in the claim bond, they shall
deliver to him the property released under the claim bond and
pay to him the damages and costs awarded to the plaintifff by the
jury. If the property be returned to the officer, but the damages
and costs shall not be paid, the execution shall be enforced for
such damagesand costs. If part only of the property be returned
to him, the execution shall be enforced for the value, fixed as
aforesaid, of that not returned. All property returned shall be

sold under the original execution against the original defendant,

Purpose of and issues under.—Baars v. Creary, 23 Fla., 311; Price v. Sanchez:

8 Fla., 186. Separate claim to each execution.—Moody v. Hoe, 22 F1a., 309;
Moody v. Hoe, 22 Fla., 314.

....~_.. - ---__.—

Lien of execution continues after death of execution debtor.—Kimball v.
Jenkins, 11 Fla, 111. When execution becomes lien on iial property.
Lien defined.——Love v. Williams 4 Fla., 126. Effect of sale 0! personal property
under ]l1nl01' execution.—Ib. Ri hts of senior execution creditor.—Ib. Execution in name of administrator be ore he is made a party to judgment, irregular.
Brett v. Ming, 1 Fla., 477. Court cannot direct new levy of execution on s ific

go lrty63b§ecause third person has an equity in that levied on.—Clonts v. itch,
a., .

SALE OF PROPERTY LEVIED UPON.

1202. Notice of sale.—Notice of all sales under execution
shall be given by advertisement once each week for four successive weeks in a newspaper published in the county in which the
sale is to take place, or if there is no newspaper published in the
county, by posting notices at the door of the court-house of the
county, and at three other public places in the county, for thirty
days; but the time of such notice may be shortened in the discretion of the court from which the execution issued, upon aiiidavit
that the property to be sold is subject to decay, and will not sell
for its full value if held for a period of thirty days.

1203. Time of sale.——All sales of property under legal process
shall take place between the hours of ‘ 11 o’clock in the forenoon

and 2 o’clock in the afternoon of the first Monday in every
month, and shall continue from day to day until such property

be disposed of.
Presumption in favor of regularity.—Kendrick v. Latham, 25 Fla., 819.

1204. Place of sale.—All real and personal property levied
upon under execution shall be exposed to sale at the court-house

door of the county in which the real estate shall be situated, or
the personal property shall have been seized. If, however, the
property to be sold shall consist of merchandise or other property
not easily movable, or movable at great relative expense, the sale
shall take place where the property was when taken possession of

under the levy.

See citation preceding section.

1206. Bill of sale, or deed to property sold.—Whenever a
sale shall be made by virtue of any execution, the officer making

the sale shall, on payment of the purchase money and the cost of
the deed or bill of sale execute to the purchaser a deed of conveyance or bill of sale of the property sold.

Sale not vitiated by amendable defect in execution.-Adams v. Higgins, 23
Fla.,13. Order of. sale of encumbered and unencumbered property.—Ritch v.

Eichelberger, 13 Fla., 169.

DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS OF EXECUTION.

1206. Paymentto arties.—All monies made upon execution in this State shall be paid to the party or his attorney in

whose favor execution shall have been issued. And the receipt
of said attorney shall fully release and acquit the officer so paying over the money as aforesaid. Where the names of more than
one attorney shall appear upon the records of the court, the
money shall be paid to the attorney who originally commenced
the suit, or to him who made the original defense.

When property sold under execution shall bring more than
the amount of the execution, the surplus shall without delay be
handed over to the defendant.

1207. Failure to ay over money collected.-—If any officer
collecting money un er execution shall fail or refuse to pay it

over within thirty days after it shall have been received by him,
or within. ten days after demand made by the plaintifff or his
attorney of record, he shall be liable ta pay the same and twenty
per cent damages, to be recovered by motion in court.

ARTICLE 2.

EXECUTIUNB AGAINST EQUITIE OF REDEMPTION.

1208. Discovery of value of equity.—Upon application made
by the party causing a levy upon an equity of redemption, the
court from which the execution issued shall cause the mortgagor,
mortgagee, and all other persons whom the said mortgagor or
mortgagee shall state upon oath to be interested in said mortgaged property so levied upon, to come into court and answer
upon oath what amount remains due and owing upon said mortgage, what amount has been paid, and to whom and when paid,
that the value of said equity or legal right of redemption may
be ascertained before the same shall be sold. 1209. Protection of mortgages in personal property;—The
officer selling the equity of redemption in personal property shall

require of the purchaser of such equity a bond with two good and
sufficient sureties, to be approved by him in a sum double the
amount of the value to be placed by him upon each item of the
personal property so levied upon and sold, payable to the mortgagee, and conditioned that such property shall not be removed
beyond the State, and that it shall be forthcoming to answer any
judgment or decree of foreclosure made against it.

ARTICLE 3.

EXECUTIONB AGAINST CORPORATIONS.

1210. Pi. fa. obtainable.—Upon any judgment against any
corporation, a plaintifff may sue out a fieri facias, and the writ of
fieri faeias may be levied as well on the current money as on the
goods and chattels, lands and tenements of said corporation. ‘

1211. Equitable executions -by appointment of receiver.-—
If such writ can not be satisfied in whole or in part, for want of

property of the defendant subject to levy and sale out of which to
satisfy the same, upon petition of the judgment creditor, or of his
agent or attorney, the circuit court sitting in chancery within
whose circuit such corporation may have been doing business, or
in which any of its effects are to be found, may by order sequestrate the property, things in action, goods and chattels of such corporation, for the purpose of enforcing such judgment, and may
appoint a receiver for the same, and the receiver so appointed
shall be subject to the rules prescribed by law for receivers of the
property of other judgment debtors. His power shall extend
throughout the State.

0

ARTICLE 4._

AGAINST STOGK IN CORP()RA'l‘IONS.

What shares of stock subject to. Section . . . . . . . . . . 1212
Levy, and proceedings thereon. Sections ‘ . . . . . . . . . 1213, 1214
Stock owned in corporations, how ascertained from officers

of corporation. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1215,1216
Effect of levy. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1217
Sale, manner, etc. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1218

1212. What shares of stock subject to levy.——Shares of
stock in any corporation incorporated by the laws of this State
shall be subject to levy of attachments and executions, and to
sale under executions on judgments or decrees of any court in

this State. ‘

LEVY, AND PROCEEDINGS THEREUN.

1213. Manner of levy.—Attachme_nts or executions may be
levied on such shares by the sheriff or other officer holding such
process, exhibiting the same to the president, vice-president, general manager, ‘or other chief officer, or to the officer having custody of the stock books or transfer books of the corporation in
which the attachment or judgment debtor may own shares of
stock, and by informing such officer that a levy is thereby made
upon such debtor’s shares of stock in such corporation, and such
sheriff or other officer shall endorse such levy on such process.

1214. Omcer may require exhibit of stock.——At the time of
making such levy as aforesaid, the officer holding such process

shall demand of the officer of the corporation to whom the process shall be exhibited a statement in writing of the number of
shares of stock owned by such debtor in said corporation, together with the amount still due thereon. It shall be the duty
of the said officer to furnish said statement at once to the said
sheriff or other officer (who shall endorse the same on said process); and any officer of any corporation refusing or failing to
make such statement upon such demand, or making an untrue
statement in response to such demand, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall, upon conviction, be fined a sum of not less
than one hundred dollars or be imprisoned in the county jail not
less than ten days. 1216. Stock owned in corporations, how ascertained.——I_f
such attachment or execution creditor shall believe that the

debtor owns shares of stock in said corporation at the time of the
levy aforesaid which do not appear in the answer of the officers
of the corporation to the demand of the sheriff or other officer
holding the process to belong to the said debtor, he may propound interrogatories to the officers of said corporation or any of
them, and to the said debtor, touching the ownership of any shares
of stock in said corporation by said debtor at the time of said
levy, andsthe persons to whom such interrogatories are propounded shall be required to file theiyanswers under oath to the
same within ten days in the office of the clerk of the circuit
court of said county. And if any person shall refuse to answer
such interrogatories, or shall answer any of them untruly, he
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be fined not less than
one hundred dollars or be imprisoned not less than ten days in
the county jail. If the answers to said interrogatories shall state
the ownership by the said debtor of stock in said corporation not
disclosed by the answers of the officers of the said corporation,
made under section 1214, ,the sheriff or other officer holding the
said process shall endorse thereon a description of said stock. 1

1216. Creditor to furnish description of stock.—If the creditor shall believe the answers of the officers of such corporation to

the sheriff or other officer holding the process as aforesaid, and the
answers of such officers of the corporation and the debtor, to said
interrogatories to state untruly the stock owned by such debtor,
he may furnish to the sheriff or other officer holding the process
a description of the stock which he believes the debtor to own;
and it shall be the duty of the sheriff or other officer to proceed
to sell the debtor’s interest in such stock as hereinafter provided.

1217. Efect of levy.——From the time, of the levy of said
process as provided in section 1213, all the shares‘ owned by the
said debtor in such corporation, no matter how the description of
it may be thereafter ascertained, shall be bound thereby, and no
transfer of the same not then entered upon the transfer book of
the said corporation shall be valid and effectual as against the
levy of the said process. And if any person shall antedate or
procure to be antedated any entry upon the books of said corporation for the purpose of avoiding the effect of the said levy, he
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall upon conviction, be
fined not less than one hu_ndred dollars or imprisoned in the
county jail not less than ten days.

1218. Sale, manner of.——Shares of stock levied upon as hereinbefore provided shall be sold in the same manner as other property levied upon. The notice of such sale shall contain a statement of the number of shares to be sold, the corporation in which
said shares are held, the amount paid in thereon, and the amount
unpaid. The sheriff or other officers conducting said sale shall

execute to the purchaser thereat a bill of sale of said shares, and
such bill of sale shall vest in the purchaser all the title of the
judgment debtor, and upon the presentation of such bill of sale
to the secretary or other officer controlling the transfer books of
such corporation, it -shall be his duty'to transfer the said stock
from the judgment debtor to the purchaser.

ARTICLE 5.

EXECUTION AGAINST STOCKHOLDERS FOR CORPORATE DEBTS.

1219. See section 2152..

CHAPTER XX.

LIS PENDENS.

1220. Beginning and requirements of.—No suit at law or in
equity shall operate as a his pendens as to any property involved

therein until there shall have been filed in the office of the clerk
of the circuit court of the county Where the property is situated,
and shall have been recorded by him in a book to be kept by him
for the purpose, a notice of the institution of such suit containing
the names of the parties, the time of the institution of the suit,
the name of the court in which it is pending, a description of the
property involved, and a statement of the relief sought as to such

property.

CHAPTER XXI.

ARBITRATIONS.
Parties, who may submit to. Section . . . . . . . . . 1221
How made a rule of court. Section . . . . . . . . _. . 1222
Powers of arbitrators, and proceedings. Section . . . . 1223
“Compensation of arbitrators. Section . . . . . . . . . 1224
Award, form of. Section_ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1225
Setting aside award, proceedings for. Sections . . . . . 1226-1228
Judgment u'pon award. Section . . . . . . . . . . . 1229

1221. Who may submit to.—All parties to any controversy,
before or after suit thereon, may make a rule of court of any arbitration to which they may desire to submit such controversy.
Guardians, and executors and administrators shall have such
power in matters relating to the trusts committed to them respectively.

However, any party to a submission not made a rule of court
may seek relief in the courts.

1222. How made a rule of court.—An arbitration may be
made a rule of court by the parties filing in the court which

would have jurisdiction of the controversy if it were not submitted to arbitration, a statement in writing signed by each party
of the agreement of matters to be submitted to arbitration, and
of the name of the arbitrator or arbitrators, and an umpire selected by them. The clerk of the court (or the court if it have
‘no clerk), shall record said statement in the minutes of the court,
and thereupon the arbitrator or arbitrators and umpire shall have
the powers hereinafter specified.

Judgment cannot be entered except after suit or upon written agreement to
make award rule of court.—Coxetter v. Huertas, 14 Fla., 270. Must be signed by
both parties.—-O’Bryan v. Reed, 2 Fla., 448. Alter award is opened cannot by
consent be made a rule of court.—Ib.

D

1223. Powers of arbitrators, and proceedings.—The arbitrator, or arbitrators, and umpire appointed as aforesaid, shall before entering upon the investigation of the matter submitted to
them, be severally sworn before some judge or justice of the peace
faithfully and diligently to execute the trust committed by the
submission ; and the examination of all witnesses before the said
arbitrator, arbitrators or umpire shall be under oath, and if the
parties themselves be examined, such examination shall also be
under oath, and in the presence of each other; and the said arbitrators, or either of them, shall be and they are hereby authorized
and empowered to issue subpoenas to compel the attendance of
witnesses, under the same regulations as the clerks of the circuit
courts of this State, which said subpoenas shall be served by the
sheriff or any constable of the county, and shall be obeyed by the
witnesses in the same manner as subpoenas issued from any court
within this State.

Umpire may accept facts agreed upon by arbitrators, except when.—Blood
v. Shine, 2 Fla., 127.

1224. Compensation of arbitrators, officers and witnesses.
—The arbitrators and umpire shall be allowed for their services

two dollars and fifty cents per day; the odicers of court, the
usual fees for similar services in the court of which the arbitration has been made a rule; and the witnesses, one dollar and
twenty-five cents per day for each day of attendance.

1225. Form of awa.rd.—The award shall be in writing,
signed by a majority of the arbitrators, or arbitrators and umpire, shall state the adjudication in full, and shall be filed and recorded in the court of which the arbitration is a rule. And the
clerk of such court (or the court if it have no clerk) shall give
notice of the entry of the award, to the persons against whom
the award is rendered.

SETTING ASIDE THE AWARD.

1226. Application for, time and manner.—Any party to an
award may, within thirty days after notice of the entry of the

award of record, apply to the court of which the submission is a
rule, by motion, to set aside the award, on giving the opposite
party or his attorney ten days’ previous notice of such intended
application, and of the grounds on which the motion will be
made.

1227. Grounds for setting aside.-—An award of any arbitra- ‘

tion duly appointed, made pursuant to the said submission, shall
be set aside by the court only on the ground of fraud, corruption,
gross negligence or misbehavior of one or more arbitrators, or umpire, or of evident mistalge acknowledged by the arbitrators or
umpire who may have signed the award.

Fl Or for mistakes, etc., acknowledged by-party, seems.—O’Bryan v. Reed, 2
a., 448.

1228. Testimony upon application to set aside.—The court
upon the hearing of such motion shall require affidavit of the

facts constituting the ground on which the motion is made, and
shall also, if offered, receive affidavits on the other side, ‘but no
parole testimony shall be admitted on either side.

JUDGMENT.

1229. Judgment upon award.—If any award be entered of
record, so much thereof as decrees the payment of money by

either party shall have the force and effect of a judgment from
the day of entering said award, upon which execution may be
issued as in cases of judgment duly entered; and so far as the
award relates to the performance of any other lawful act, the
party failing to comply with said award shall be considered in
contempt, and, by theorder of court, shall be committed to
prison, there to remain without bail until he shall comply with
the order of the court in the premises.

Every reasonable intendent is in favor of award.—Blood v. Shine, 2 Fla.,
127. Appointment not collaterally impeachable.—Rushing v. Thompson’s extra,
20 Fla., 588. .

CHAPTER XXII.

REFERENCES.
Right to a reference. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1230

Powers and duties of a referee. Scction . . . . . . . . . . 1231

Motions for new trial. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1232

Judgment of referee. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1233

Appeals and write of error. Section . . . . . . . . . . . 1234

Compensation of referee. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1235

Compensation of witnesses and officers. Section . . . . . . 1236

1230. Right to a. reference.-—-Any civil cause may be tried
before a practicing attorney as referee upon the application of the

parties, and an order from the court in whose jurisdiction the case
may be, authorizing such trial and appointing such referee.

1231. Powers and duties of a referee.1. ‘To sUBPa~:NA w1TNEssEs AND TAKE DE1>os1TIoNs.——Every
referee shall have the same power to subpoena witnesses and parties to testify, and to compel their attendance, and to take depositions, as the court making the reference may have in like cases.

2. To ALLow AMENDMENTs.—He shall have the same power
over the pleadings as to filing additional pleadings, or striking
out or amending the pleadings, as the court making the reference
may have. 3. To FIX AND ADJOURN DAY OF TR1AL.—He may fix the
day for the trial, and may adjourn the trial for cause shown; and
if he shall unreasonably delay the trial or determination of a case,
the court shall revoke the order appointing him.

4. To KEEP AND FILE RECORD oF cAsE.—He shall keep a
complete record of the case, including the evidence taken, and
such record shall be Filed with the papers in the case in the court
making the reference. '

5. To DETERMINE MOTIONS FOR NEW TRIALS, ETc.—He may
hear and determine motions for new trials, rehearing, arrest of
judgment, or reformation or alteration of judgment, to the same
extent and with like powers as the court by which the reference
is made.

6. To ENTER JUDGMENT.—He shall have power to enter final
judgment or decree with the effect hereinafter prescribed.

May be appointed and render final decree after decree pro confesso.--Rushing
v. Thompson’s extrs., 20 F1a., 583.

7. To GIVE NoTIcE OF HIS FINDINGS AND .IUDoMENT.—He
shall, upon arriving at a judgment, give notice in writing of the
same to both parties.

1232. Motions for new trial, etc.
1. WHEN TO BE MADE.—All motions for new trials, rehearings, in arrest of judgment, or for reformation or alteration of the.
same shall be made within ten days after receipt of the notice
provided for in the preceding section, paragraph 7.

2.. WHEN To BE HEARD.—Motions mentioned in the preceding
paragraph must be brought to a hearing before the referee within
ten days after the motion shall be filed with him, upon due notice to the opposite party,but the referee may, by an order, enlarge
the time for such hearing, and may specify what notice shall be
given of such hearing.

3. How AFFECTED BY DEATH, ETC., OF REFEREE.—In case of
the absence or death of the referee after the notice of his findings,
so that the parties cannot be heard before him upon such motions
within the time fixed by law, the parties may apply to the court
for such order or proceeding as might be allowed by the referee.

1233. Judgment of B.eferee.—If there shall be none of ‘the
motions hereinbefore mentioned, or if the said motion shall have
been made and denied, or whenever the judgment of the referee
shall have been finally arrived at by him, he shall file in the
court by which the reference was made his decision and judgment,
and all the papers used before him, and the record of the case as
kept by him, and such judgment or decree shall be entered in the
minutes of the court, and shall be of like force and effect as
other judgments or decrees of said court.

When judgment tlnal.—Read v. Gooding, 20 Fla., 773; Stewart v. Mathewsv
19 Fla., 752.

1234. Appeals and writs of error.1. RIGHT TO, AND HOW TAKEN.——AI1y party to such judgment

or decree may appeal or have a writ of error, as the judgment
or decree may be reviewable by the one or the other proceeding
therefrom, to the appropriate appellate court, and such appeal or
writ of error shall be taken and prosecuted in like manner, and
with like effect, as appeals and writs of error from the court making the reference, and subject to all the provisions of law applicable to such appeals and writs of error.

Lies only after final judgment.—-Demens v. Poyntz, 25 Fla., 654. What is
not such judgment.—Ib. '

2. BILLS or EXCEPTIONS.-—BlllS of exceptions in cases at law
may be settled before the referee according to the practice prevailing in the court making the reference within a time to be
fixed by him, and shall be signed by the referee, and when filed
shall become a part of the record of the cause, for the purpose of
review upon writ of error.

What considered bill of exceptions.—Stewart v. Mathews, 19 Fla., 752.

3. REVERSALS, 1;'rc., 01-‘ JUDGMENT.-—UpOI1 the reversal or
modification of such judgment or decree by the appellate court,
the court from which the appeal was taken may refer the cause
to the same or another referee to be agreed upon by the parties,
or may proceed with the cause as in other causes before the court.

Judgment of referee on conflictin testimony and on uestions of fact sustained.—Eppinger v. Canepa, 20 Fla.. 562; McClenn ' v. Hu bard, 20 Fla. 541;
Wharton v. Hammond, 20 Fla., 934; Holland v. Ho mes, 14 17121., 390; Richardson v. Russ, 14 Fla., 462. Reversed for taking cognizance at law of an equitable
proceeding.—Price v. Drew, 18 Fla., 670.

1235. Compensation of referee.—The referee shall receive
five dollars for each day he shall sit to hear the cause, and shall

receive like pay for not exceeding two days for deliberation and
judgment after the cause is submitted for decision; ten cents per
folio of one hundred words for reducing the testimony to writing,
and in cases involving more than ordinary skill or labor on the
part of the referee, such greater compensation as may be agreed
upon by the parties or allowed by the court. His compensation
and costs may he demanded by him after he shall have decided
the cause, and he may withhold all the papers and records of the
cause until his fees shall be paid, unless, after due notice to him
and opportunity to be heard, it is otherwise ordered by the court.

1236. Compensation of witnesses and o1iicers.—The compensation of all witnesses attending before the referee shall be one

dollar and twenty-five cents per day, and the officers performing
services in and about such reference shall receive the same compensation as they would receive for like services performed in the
court making the reference.

CHAPTER XXIII.

OF SHERIFF'S, IN THEIR RELATION TO CIVIL COURTS
(For their relations peculiarly to circuit courts, see sections 1396-1398.)

ARTICLE 1.—Their bonds. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . 1237-1240
2.—Their duties. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . 1241-1245
3.—Their deputies and substitutes. Sections . . . 1246, 1247
4.—Their places of office and residence. Sections. 1248, 1249
5.——Penalties for defaults of. Sections . . . . . . 1250-1252
6.—Proceedings upon the death, and expiration of

term, of. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . 1253,1254
7.—Their compensation. Sections . . . . . . . . 1255, 1256
ARTICLE 1.

BONDS OF SHERIFF.

1237. Requirements of bonds.-—He shall, before he is commissioned, give bond with not less than two sureties, in a sum tc
be fixed by the county commissioners not less than two hundreddollars and not more than ten thousand dollars, payable to the
governor of the State of Florida, and his successors in office, conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of his office,
which shall be approved by the board of county commissioners
and comptroller, and be filed with the secretary of State.

1238. Obligation of sureties.—-Each surety upon such bond
may bind himself for a specified sum, and the aggregate amount

for which the sureties shall bind themselves shall not be less than
the penalty of the bond.

1239. Justihcation of sureties.—-Each surety upon such bond
shall make an affidavit that he is a resident of the county for
which the officer is to be commissioned, and that he has sufficient
visible property therein, unincumbered and not exempt from sale
under legal process, to make good his bond.

1240. Liability of sureties.—Thc said sureties shall be liable
for all fines and amercements imposed upon him.

ARTICLE 2.
DUTIES OF SHERIFF.

1241. Toexecute process.——Each sheriff shall in person or
by deputy execute all process of the supreme court, circuit court,

county court and criminal court, to be executed in the county,
and may serve all process of the county judge’s court, justices of
the peace courts and board of county commissioners.

1242. To attend court.—He shall in person or by deputy
attend every term of the circuit court, county court and criminal
court in his county.

1243. His failure to attend court.——Whenever any sheriff
or coroner in the State shall fail to attend in person or by deputy

any term of the circuit court, county court or criminal court of
his county from sickness, death or other cause, the judge attending said court shall have power to appoint a sheriff, who shall
assume all the responsibilities, perform all the dutics,,and receive
the same compensation as if he had been duly appointed sheriff,
for said term of court and no longer.

1244. To execute process of territorial courts.—The sheriffs
of the several counties of this State may execute any writ of fieri
facias or other final process issued by or under the authority of
any of the courts of the late territory of F1orida,whether the same be
directed to the marshals of the territory of Florida or to the sheriffs thereof, prior to the third day of March, 1845, or subsequent
thereto under the provisional government established by the 17th
article of the Constitution of 1839, and prior to the regular organization of the government of this State under the Constitution;
and such execution by the said sheriff shall be deemed and held
justifiable under the said process, and as good and valid as if the
same had issued from or under the authority of the proper courts
of this State, and directed to the sheriff's of this State as now required by law.

1245. To keep an execution docket.——He shall keep an
execution docket, which shall contain a list of all executions,
orders and decrees directed to him, in relation to the collection
of monies, and a statement of all monies credited on such orders,
executions and decrees, and when and to whom, and by whom,
paid. 1

Said docket shall be laid before the court at each term, and
be subject to the inspection of all parties interested.

His failure to keep said docket, to lay it before the court or to
allow inspection of the same shall be considered a contempt of
court, and subject him to a.tine not exceeding one hundred
dollars, at the discretion of the court.

ARTICLE 3.

DEPUTIES AND SUBSTITUTESI.

1246. Justices of the peace and elisors.—A justice of the
peace in the respective counties in this state shall act in cases
where the sheriff of a county is interested, and in cases of

necessity, when neither the sheriff nor a justice of the peace can
act, the judge of the court requiring the action may appoint an
elisor to act in such case.

1247. Deputy sheriffs.—Sheriffs may appoint deputies to act
under them who shall have the same power as the sheriffs
appointing them, and for the neglect and default of whom in
the execution of their office the sheriff shall be responsible.

Powers of special deputies.—Guarantee Trust, etc., Co. v. Buddington, 23

- Fla, 514. Actual deputation must exist.-—-Ib.

.__—jj_._._.._.

ARTICLE 4.

PLACES OF OFFICE AND REIDENCE OF SHERIFF'S.

1248. Place of office.——T_he place of office of every sheriff
shall be at the county seat of the county.

1249. Place of residence.—He or his deputy shall reside at
the county seat or within two miles thereof.

ARTICLE 5.

PENALTIE FOR DEFAULT8 OF SHERIFFS.

1260. Failure to execute process.——Every sheriff or deputy
failing to execute any writ or other process, civil or criminal, to

him legally issued and directed within his county and make due
return thereof, where such process shall be delivered to him in
time for execution, shall forfeit one hundred dollars for each neglect, to be paid to the party aggrieved, by the order of the court,
upon motion and proof of such delivery, unless such sheriff or
deputy can show sufficient cause for such failure or neglect to the

court.

1251. False return.—For every false return the sheriff shall
forfeit and pay five hundred dollars, one moiety thereof to the
party aggrieved, and the other moiety to him who will sue for the
same, to be recovered with costs by action of debt; and the said
sheriff shall be further liable to an action of the party aggrieved.

Action for false return.—McLeod v. Ward, 9 F1a., 18.

1252. His failure to pay over money.—If any sheriff shall
fail to collect or pay over fines, fees, costs or other monies

adjudged to the State which he shall have been by proper process directed to collect, he shall forfeit his commissions and also
be liable to a fine of fifty dollars, to be recovered by motion
before the circuit court, after ten days’ notice; and his sureties
shall also be liable for the amount of such monies upon his bond
as sheriff.

ARTICLE 6.

PROCEEDINGS UPON DEATH AND EXPIRATION OF TERM OF SHERIFF.

1253. His dea.th.—Whenever any sheriff shall die, his execu-.

tors, administrators, or other representatives shall hand over to
his successor in office, taking a receipt for the same, all the papers
in the possession of and belonging to such decedent as sheriff;
and if, in any case, a successor should not be qualified in due
time to serve or execute the process of the court, the deputy of
such deceased sheriff, if there should be one, or some other person,
shall be employed by an order from the judge of the circuit court
to receive from the representatives of the decedent and execute all

process which remained in his possession at the time of his dccease.

1254. Expiration of his term.—The sheriff shall, at the expiration of his term of office, turn over to his successor by schedule
(taking a receipt for the same) all such writs and processes as
shall remain in his hands unexecuted, and his successor in office
shall duly execute and return the same; and in case any sheriff
shall neglect or refuse to turn over such process in manner aforesaid, every such sheriff so neglecting or refusing and his sureties
shall be liable to make such satisfaction by damage and costs to

the party aggrieved as he shall sustain by reason of such neglect *

or refusal; and the succeeding sheriff shall be empowered, and he
is hereby required, to sell and carry into effect any levy made by
any predecessor in office in like manner as the former sheriff
could have done had he continued therein, and shall make titles
to the purchaser for all the property sold under execution or
other process and not conveyed by any predecessor.

ARTICLE 7.

COMPENSATION OF SHERIFF8.

(For compensation for services to be rendered exclusively in the circuit courtv
see section 1397.)

1255. Manner of payment and amounts.——The compensaf
tion of sheriffs shall be entirely by fees, which shall be as follows :

Advertising property for sale . . . . . . . . . . . .$O 50
Arrestofprisoner.................100
Safe-keeping and punishment of prisoner (not otherwise
provided for), actual and necessary expense to be
fixed by the judge.
Attendance per day in supreme or circuit court . . . . . 2 00
Bailiff, not more per day than . . . . . ._ . . . . . . 1 25
Bond, writing, taking and approving. . . . . . . . . . 75

Commissions on money collected under process:

UPON ACTUAL SALE.-On first $300, three per cent; $300 to.
$2,000 two per cent.; over $2,000, one per cent.

WITHOUT SALE.-011 first $300, two per cent. ; $300 to $2,000,
one per cent.; over $2,000, one-half of one per cent.

He shall, after levy, be entitled to this commission, notwithstanding payment of debt to plaintifff.

()ri monies collected for the State, as fines, fees, costs, or
other monies adjudged to the State, five per cent.

Commitment to jail of prisoner arrested by him . . . . . $0 50
Recommitment under order .. . . . . . . . . . . ' 25
Commitment of prisoner to jail, per mile .. . . . . . . . 10
Copy of process, one hundred words or less .. . . . . . . 15
Every subsequent hundred words .. . . . . . . . . 08
Coroner’s inquest, attending. . .— . . . . . . . . . . . 3 00
And mileage, per mile each way . . . . . . . . . . 10
Deed, of real estate, executing (paid by purchaser) . . . . 1 00
Ficri_facz'a3, or other process, levying .. . . . 1 00
5 Guards, not more per day than .. . . . 1 00
Habeas corpus, executing . . . . . . . . 1 00
Hab. fa. ca. sa., execution of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 00
Horses and mules taken under process, keeping, not more
perdaythan.......... 50
The officer shall not use such stock
Horse hire, not more per day than . . . . . . . . 1 00

Jurors, or talesmen or bystanders, summoning under special venire, or by order, each .. . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Jury,petit,ca1ling.................. 20
Mileage, distance to be estimated from the court-house door
to the point of execution of process, per mile each way . - 10
Personal property, levying and safe-keeping of, actual and
necessary expenses to be fixed by the judg

Prisoner, feeding, per day . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40,
Releaseofprisoner................. 25
Removal of prisoner, to or from jail, per mile. . . . . . 10
Servants, not more per day than . . 75

State prison, conveying prisoner to, $3 per day for himself,
and $1.50 per day for each guard actually necessary, the
necessity to be determined by the comptroller. The State
will furnish transportation.

Stock, other than above, taken under process, keeping, such
allowance as the judge may fix.

Subpoena for Witnesses, service on each witness . . . . . 20
Return of same . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 05
Venire, grand or petit jury, executing . . . . . . . . . 5 00
And mileage, per mile each way . . . . . . . . . 10
Writ in action at law, executing . . . . . . . . . .‘ . 50
Return of the same. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10

1256. Constructive mileage not to be charged.—-No sheriff,
constable or coroner shall charge constructive mileage. The mileage charged for must be actually traveled by the nearest and
most direct route by the public highway.

CHAPTER ’ XXIV.

\

OF CON STABLES.

Bond. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ‘ . . 1257

Duties. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1258

Powers territorially. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1259

Resignation, removal and death. Section . . . . . . . . . 1260

Fees. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1261 1257. Bond.—Every constable shall give bond in the sum of
five hundred dollars, which shall be governed by the provisions
governing bonds to be given by the clerk of the circuit court.

1258 Duties.—Constables in the several counties shall serve
all summonses and warrants, and levy all executions placed in
their hands, agreeably to the tenor thereof, and make due returns
of the same to the court to which they may be made returnable;
and if any constable shall fail to pay over money collected by
him on any execution or other process to the person entitled to
receive the same on demand, he shall be liable to a penalty of
twenty-five per cent. upon the amount so collected for such failure; and it shall be the duty of the court which issued said execution or other process upon application of the plaintifff, upon his
making it appear that said constable has received the amount of
said execution or other process, or any part thereof, and has failed
to pay over the same on demand, to issue an execution against
said constable and his sureties for the same, together with the
penalty herein prescribed; which execution shall be levied, and
the money raised by some other constable of the county, out of
the property of said defaulting constable and his sureties.

1259. Powers ten'itorially.—LA constable shall be permitted
to serve process and transact business in any district in the
county in which he resides, but no constable shall be allowed
greater fees for traveling than he would be entitled to, if he resided in the district in which the said business is done; and in
all cases the mileage shall be calculated from the place of holding

court in the district. °

1260. Resignation, death and removal.—Whenever any
constable resigns or is removed from office, it shall be his duty to
deposit all papers and unfinished business in the court to which
the same is made returnable; and if any constable going out of
office shall fail to deposit his papers and unfinished business as
aforesaid he and_ his sureties shall be liable to the action of any
person injured by such failure; and if any constable shall die, it
shall be the duty of his executor or administrator to deposit his
papers as aforesaid, and the court in which the said papers and
unfinished business are deposited shall cause the same to be acted

upon.

1261. Fees.—The fees of constables shall be the same as are
allowed sheriffs for like services.

CHAPTER XXV.

APPELLATE PROCEEDINGS AT LAW AND IN PROBATE MATTERS.
APPELLATE PROCEEDINGS AT LAW.

Anncm 1.—What appellate proceedings authorized. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1262
2.—What reviewable and how reviewed Sections. 1263-1269
3.—Procurement and effect of. Sections . . . . . 1270-1272
41—sa'. fa. ad. aud. errores, and service of. Sections. 1273,1274
5.—Proceedings in appellate court. Sections . . . 1275, 1276
6.—Duty of appellate court. Sections . . . . . . 1277-1279

ARTICLE 1.

WHAT APPELLATE PROCEEDINGS AUTHORIZED.

1262. Enumera.tion.—All proceedings to procure review by
an appellate court of the proceedings of a lower court in cases at

law shall be by writ of error, except in cases where certiorari or

prohibition shall lie, or where it shall be otherwise expressly pro-'
vided.

When certiorari 1ies.—Basnett v. Jacksonville, 18 Fla. 523; Edgerton v.
Mayor, 18 Fla., 528; Holliday v. Jacksonville P. R. Co. 6 Fla., 303. Certiorari
from circuit court to count judge.—Deans as admr. v. Wilcoxon, 18 Fla., 531.
Review of such proceeding y supreme court.—Ib.

ARTICLE 2.

WHAT REVIEWABLE AND HOW REVIEWED.

Writs of error only from final judgments. Section . . . . . 1263
From rule of court. ~ Section . . . . . . . . ' ' . ,. . . . 1264
Matters remediable upon writs of error. Section . . . . . 1265
Reserving exeptions. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1266
From orders granting new trials. Section . . . . . . . . . 1267
Procurement of bills of exceptions. Section . . . . . . . . 1268
Bills of exceptions upon non-suit. Section . . . . . . .' . . 1269

1263. Writs of error—on1y from final judgments.—Writs of

error shall lie only from final judgments, except as specified in
section 1267.

1264. From rule of court operating as a judgment.~In all
cases in which a rule of court or other summary order to any of

the officers of the court and their sureties, or deputies, is in effect’

a judgment for the payment of money or other thing, the party

aggrieved may prosecute his writ of error as if the rule or order
were a formal final judgment at law.

1265. Matters remediable upon writs of error.—A11 orders
and judgments of courts of this State made and passed in any

cause therein, wherein the said courts shall allow and grant, or
shall refuse to allow and grant, any motion_for new trial, or any
motion to amend the pleadings, or to file new or additional
pleadings, or to amend the record of any cause during the term
of court in which it was determined, or shall refuse to allow and
grant a motion for the continuance of a cause, or shall sustain or
overrule any demurrer, shall and may-be assigned for matter and
cause of error upon any writ of error from the final judgment in
said cause, taken to the appellate court, and the said court shall
hear and determine the matter so assigned for error in the same
manner and under the like rules and regulations as in other cases.

Pleading over or amending pleadings after judgment on demurrer shall not Waive the right to have reviewed as aforesaid
such judgment or demurrer.

Provisions as to demurrer not applicable to motion to set aside service.Ste hens v. Bradley. 24 Fla., 201. Applied.—-Jones v. Johnson, 21 Fla.,431.
Or er of court trying without jury reviewable.--Knox v. Barnett, 18 Fla., 594.
Ruling on motion for new trial reviewabIe.—Bridier v. Yulee, 9 F 1a., 481. Order
directing attorney to return paper withdrawn from the files not reviewable.—
Fraser v. Livingston, 1 Fla., 393.

1266. B.eserv'ing exceptions in above cases.-In all cases
enumerated, except that of a judgment upon demurrer, the party

aggrieved by any such order or judgment shall make his exception thereto in writing, and shall insert therein all such evidence,
affidavits, amendments or pleadings, and all other matters which
do not properly appear of record, which were considered by the
court below, or which were offered to the consideration of the
court below and should have been considered in the making and
passing said order and judgment, and the ‘said exception shall be
tendered to the judge of the court for his signature in the same
manner and under the same rules, regulations and provisions as.

bills of exceptions are by law made up, signed and made a part
of the record.

Exception as to judgment upon demurrer appIied,—Hinote v. Simpson, 17
Fla., 444. There is no exception without an objection:-Coker v. Hays, 16 Fla.,

368.

1267. Writs of error from orders granting new trials.Upon the entry of an order granting a new trial at law, the party

aggrieved by such order may, without waiting for a final judgment in the cause, prosecute a writ of error to the proper appellate court, which shall review the said order, and if the cause be
reversed, shall direct final judgment to be entered in the court
below, for the party who had obtained the verdict in the court
below, unless a motion in arrest of judgment, or for judgment
Inon. obstante 'vc'red'i('t0, shall be made and prevail.

1268. Procurement of bills of exceptions.——The judge of any
court of this State, upon a trial at law in said court, shall sign,
upon request, any bill of exceptions taken during the progress of
the cause and tendered to the court if said bill as tendered fairly
states the truth of the matter, and the exception designed to be
taken; and the same shall, when signed, become a part of the
record of such cause; and in case the judge refuses to sign a bill
of exceptions when so tendered for that purpose, it shall be lawful for three persons to sign the same in the presence of the judge
and certify that the same was presented to the judge and he refused
to sign it , which bill shall be as valid and have the same force as
though it were signed by the judge of said court; and the court
shall permit the same to be filed and become a part of the record.
And if the judge refuses to let the same be filed as aforesaid, the
supreme court may, when such case is brought before them by
writ of error, upon afhdavit of such refusal, admit such bill of exceptions as a part of the record.

it may become necessary for the plaintifff to suffer a non-suit, the
facts, points or decision may be reserved for the decision of the
supreme court by bill of exceptions as in other cases.

ARTICLE 3. ’

PROCUREMENT, AND EFFECT OF’ WRIT OF ERROR.

Right to, teste, and service of. Section . . . . . . . . . . 1270
_ Limitation upon time of suing out. Section . . . . . . . . 1271
When to operate as a super-sedeas. Section . . . . . . . . . 1272

1270. Right to, and teste, and service of.-—All writs of error
shall be tested in the name of the chief justice of the supreme

court, and shall issue on demand as matter of right, from the
office of the clerk of the appellate court or from that of the clerk
of the court (or if there be no clerk, from the office of the judge)
in which the judgment has been rendered, and shall be returnable to the first day of the next succeeding term of the appellate
court, unless said first day shall be less than thirty days from the
date of the writ, when it shall be made returnable to a day in
such next succeeding term, more than thirty days and not more
than fifty days from the date of the writ.

But no writ of error shall be granted to the original plaintifff
in any suit, unless said plaintifff shall first pay all costs which
may have accrued in and about the said suit up to the time
when said writ of error shall be prayed.

The Writ of error shall be served by filing it in the court the
judgment of which is complained of.

Time of issuance.—Dr-iggs v. Higgins, 19 Fla., 103. A matter of right.Weiskoph v. Dibble. 18 Fla.. 22. Amendment of.—D1-iggs v. Higgins, 19 Fla.,
103; Loring v. Wittich, 16 Fla., 323. Return of‘, to day in term.—Randall v.
Jacksonville Street R. R. Co., 19 Fla., 409. Writ in partnership name is erroneous; whether amendable.—Johnson v. Polk county. 24 Fla., 28. Costs.-—
Does State have to first pay all costs ?—State v. Rushing, 17 Fla., 223. Non- yment of costs ground for dismissal by appellate court, even though plainti in
error be non-resident.—Union Bank v. l\“ cBride, 2 Fla.. 7. Applied as to costs.-—

Gordon v. Cam , 2 Fla., 23. Bond.—Not necessary unless supersedeaa required.
—Weiskoph v. ibble, 18 Fla., 22. .

1271. Limitation upon time of suing out.—Al1 writs of error
on judgments in civil actions shall be sued out and taken within
six months from the date of said judgment; but where an infant,
femme covert, except when authorized to sue in her own name, or
person non compos mantis, shall be a party to any judgment in a
civil action, six months shall be allowed to such infant, femme
covert or person non compos 'numt'is after their respective disabilities
are removed, in which to sue out a writ of error on any judgment
as aforesaid.

c 1272. When to operate as a supersedeas.—1. As or counss.
Every writ of error shall operate as a supersedeas if sued out

during the session of court at which the judgment was rendered,
or Within thirty days thereafter, if, within said time, the plaintifff
in error, if he be the plaintifff in the court below, shall have paid
all costs which may have accrued in and about said suit up to
the time ‘when the writ shall be issued, and shall have filed a
bond payable to the defendant, with two good and sufficient
obligors to be approved by the judge or clerk of the court
below, in a sum sufficient to cover all costs which may accrue in
the prosecution of the writ, conditioned to pay the said costs if
the judgment of the court below shall be affirmed ; or if he be a
party in the- court below against whom a judgment has been
given, shall have filed a bond payable to the adverse party with
like obligors and approved in like manner as the bond hereinbefore required of the plaintifff, and if the judgment be a money
judgment in a sum sufficient to cover the amount for which the
judgment was given together with costs, conditioned to pay the
amount of the judgment with interests and costs, if the same
shall be affirmed by the appellate court, but if the judgment is in
whole or in part other than a money judgment, the amount and
condition of the bond shall be determined by the court below.

2. UPON SPECIAL ORDER. No writ of error except as above
shall operate as a supersedeas unless by the special order of the

appellate court or some judge thereof, made upon inspecting a.

copy of the record, and upon the plaintifff in error paying the costs
and filing the bond required in the preceding paragraph. When
such order is made and security given as aforesaid, the clerk, or
the judge if there be no clerk, shall endorse on such writ of error
that it shall be a superscdeas ; and the said writ and endorsement
shall be obeyed as such, suspending all further proceedings in
relation to said judgment, in and by the officers of the said court

below.

Waiver of sufficiency of each surety.—Pace v. Lanier, 25 F1a., 558. Identification of judgment in bond. Forbes v. Porter 23 Fla., 47. Time of approval
of bond.—Barrs v. Creary, 23 Fla., 61. Bond in excess of amount of money
judgment sufiicient.—Montgomery v. Knox, 222 Fla., 575. Supersedeas, effect of,
in mandamus.—-County Commissioners of Polk county v. Johnson, 21 Fla., 578.
Absence of, cause for dismi.ssa1.—Orange Count ' High School, etc. v. Sanford, 17
Fla., 120. Attorney cannot be surety on appea bond.—Sedgwick v. Dawkins, 15
Fla., 572; Love v. Scheffelin, 7 Fla.,-10. May sign as principal on behalf of
part.y.—-Cunningham v. Tucker, 14 l*‘la., 251. Attorney-at-law cannot bind his
client by executing.--Gordon v. Camp, 2 Fla., 23. Presumed to have been perfected in time by filing bond.—-Summerlin v. Tyler, 6 Fla., 718. Liability of
sureties upon, for damages for frivolous appeal.—Raney v. Barrow, 1 Fla., 327.

ARTICLE 4.

SCI. FA. AD AUD. ERRORE9, AND SE1-lVI(‘F.' 'l‘llPIRl'3()F.

Issuance and time of service. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . 1273
Manner of service. Seciion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1274

1273. Issuance and time of service.—The clerk, or judge if
there be no clerk, issuing the said writ of error shall issue to the

defendant in error a scire famias to hear errors, which shall be
made returnable with the said writ of error, and shall be served
twenty-five days before the return day.

Writ should be directed to sherifl'.—-Sammis v. \Vightman, 25 F 1a., 547. Error in form of, amendable.—Ib. Must be in name of part. to record, even though
sued out by person interested not a party.—Pensaco1a v. eese, 20 Fla., 437.

1274. Manner of service.1. PERSONAL sERv1cE.—Such scire facias shall be served on all

defendants in error resident in this State, as other writs are
served.

‘ 2. UPON NON-RESIDENTS AND ABsEN'rEEs.—If the defendant in
error be a non-resident of the State, or be not in the State,
service of the sci. fa. may be made upon his attorney in the court
below, or upon his legally authorized agent, or notice may be
given by publishing the sci. fa. in a newspaper published in the
county where the appellate court will sit to hear the case, once
each week for four successive weeks.

, Test and service of-—instance of illegal writ.—Knight v. Weiskoph, 21 Fla.,
157. Is process, style of, arnendable?—Weiskoph v. Dibble, 18 Fla., 22.

ARTICLE 5.

PROCEEDINGS IN APPELLA'I'E COURT.

Filing of transcript of record, and proceedings thereon. Sec. 1275'
Filing of assignment of errors. Section . . . . . . . . . . 1276

1275. Filing of transcript of record and proceedings
thereon.—-It shall be the duty of the plaintifff in error to demand

from the clerk of the court below, or from the judge if it have no
clerk, a true copy of all proceedings in such cause in the court
below, and to file said copy in the appellate court on or before the
return day of the writ of error. If the plaintifff in error fail to
file the proceedings as aforesaid, it shall be the duty of said court,
unless good cause be shown, to dismiss said writ of error on the
adverse party producing a certificate from the clerk of the court
below, or from the judge if it have no clerk, that a writ of error
has been obtained ; and upon receipt of the order dismissing such
writ, certified by the clerk of the appellate court, the court below
shall proceed to issue execution, as well for the costs and
damages which may have been adjudged by said appellate court

‘as for the amount and costs for which the judgment was

originally pronounced.

1276. Filing assignment of errors.—The plaintifff in error
shall file in the appellate court his assignment of ‘errors within
three days after the filing of the copy of the record. If this be
omitted, except for good cause shown, the writ of error shall, on
motion of the defendant in error, be dismissed, unless the court
shall allow further time.

In the absence of, and of a parent error, judgment afiirmed on motion.-—
Stowe v. Ma Formula, etc., 0., 21 Fla., 153. ismissal for failure to file.Endel v. Wa Is, 18 Fla., 698. When is indefinite, assignment not available.Emerson v. Ross’ Extrs., 17 Fla., 123. Waiver of errors assi ned, by not including in brief.—Southern Express Company v. Van Meter, 17 1a., 783. Not. connected with, or necessary to the merits of cause, not considered.—D tt v.
Willey, 6 FIa., 483. Mere abstraction not considered.—McKay vs. Lane, Fla.
268.

ARTICLE 6.

DUTY OF APPELLATE COURT.

In examining record and giving judgment. Section . . . . . 1277
In causing execution of its decrees. Section . . . . . . . . 1278
To quash writs of error. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1279

1277. In examining record and giving judgment.—It shall
be the duty of the court on an appeal _or writ of error to examine
the record, to reverse or affirm the judgment sentence or decree
of the court below, or to give such judgment, sentence or decree
as the court below ought to have given, or as to it may appear
according to law.

As to power to ive judgment which ought to have been given by court below.-Pearce v. J or an, 9 F1a., 526; Southern Life Insurance Company v. Cole,

4 Fla., 359.

1278. In causing execution of its decrees.-—The appellate
court may order the record of the judgment appealed from, with

its decision and determination thereon in writing duly certified, to be remitted to the court from which the Writ of error
shall have been taken, and the said decision and determination
shall be carried into execution by the officers of the said court,

a quo, or the appellate court may award execution to carry into
effect its decision and determination.

1279. Power to quash writs of error.—-Courts of error shall
have power to quash proceedings in error in all cases in which
error does not lie, or where they are taken against good faith, or
merely for delay, and may decree in such case damages against
the plaintifff in error not exceeding ten per cent.

Damages for delay onl awarded on hearing on merits.—Thrasher v. Bank,
23 Fla., 44. And only w en delay clearlypurpose of appeal.—Ib., 346. Instances where damages given.-Stafford v. Anders, 10 Fla., 211; Richards v.

Nall, 8 Fla., 369. Liability of sureties upon appeal bond for such damages.Raney v. Baron, 1 Fla., 327.

APPELLATE PROCEEDINGS IN PROBATE MATTERS.

1280. To be as in appeals in chancery.—Appea1s from the
county judge to the circuit court in matters pertaining to his
probate jurisdiction and in the management of the estates of infants, and from the circuit court to the supreme court in such
matters arising before the county judge, shall be governed in all
respects by the law and rules regulating appeals in chancery.

Appeal must be in writing.——State ex rel. 1. Cooper, 20 Fla., 547.

1281. Supersedeas in certain of such cases.—-See section
1459.

1283. Actions not afected by limitations.—This chapter
shall not apply to any action by this State, or by any officer or
person in behalf of this State, or to any action by or on behalf of
the trustees of the Internal Improvement Fund, or the seminary
or school fund, or the board of education of the State, or any
county or municipal corporation, or school district within this
State, or with respect to any monies or property held or collected
by any officer or trustee or his sureties.

1284. Extensions in time of limitations.1. AcTIoNs BY REPRESENTATIVES or DEcEnENTs.—If a person entitled to bring an action die before the expiration of the
time limited for the commencement thereof, and the cause of
action survives, an action may be commenced by his representatives after the expiration of that time and within six months
from the issuing of letters testamentary or of administration.

2. ACTIONS AGAINST REPRESENTATIVES or nEcEDENTs.—If a
person against whom a suit not relating to land may be brought,
or judgment exist, die, such suit shall not be brought, nor proceedings taken upon such judgment, against his executor or administrator after two years from the issuance of letters testamentary or of administration. After ten years from the death of any
person, his estate shall not be liable for any of his debts unless
letters testamentary or of administration shall have been taken
out within said ten years. ,

3. ACTION AFTER REvERsAL or PLAINT1FF’s JUnGMENT.—If an
action shall be commenced within the time prescribed therefore,
and a judgment therein for the plaintifff be reversed on appeal or
writ of error, the plaintifff, or, if he die and the cause of action survives, his heirs or representatives, may commence a new action
within one year after the reversal.

When not applicable.-—-Doyle v. Wade, 23 Fla., 90.

4. ABSENCE or DEFENDANT FROM THE STATE.—If, when the
cause of action shall accrue against a person, he is out of the State,
the action may be commenced within the term herein limited after his return to the State; and if after the cause of action shall
have accrued he depart from the State, the time of his absence
shall not be part of the time limited for the commencement of the
action.

1285. Who may avail himself of disabi1ity.—No person shall
avail himself of a disability unless it existed when the cause of
action accrued.

1286. Actions not barred on February 2, 1872.—A11 actions
not barred by statute on February 2, 1872, or which Would
have been barred within sixty days from said date, under the
provisions of the act of the legislature of that date were not

affected by limitations of this chapter until six months from the
said date.

ARTICLE 2.

PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO REAL ACTIONS.

1287. Actions for the recovery of real property.—N o
action for the recovery of real property, or for the recovery of the

possession thereof, shall be maintained unless it appear that the
plaintifff, his ancestor, predecessor or grantor, ‘_Was seized or possessed of the premises in question within seven years before the
commencement of such action.

1288. Actions founded on title to real property.—No cause
of action or defense to an action founded upon the title to real

property, or to rents, or to service out of the same shall be effectual unless it appear that the person prosecuting the action, or
making the defense, or under whose title the action is prosecuted
or the defense is made, or the ancestor, predecessor or grantor of
such person was seized or possessed of the premises~in question
within seven years before the accruing of the right of action or
defense in respect to which such action is prosecuted or defense
made, or unless it appear that the title to such premises was derived from the United States or thelState of Florida within seven
years before the commencement of such action; and the period of
limitation shall not begin to run until the passage of the title from
the State or the United States.

1289. Possession by legal owner, presumed.—In every action for the recovery of real property, or of the possession thereof,

the person establishing a legal title to the premises shall‘ be presumed to have been possessed thereof Within the time prescribed
by law, and the occupation of such premises by any other person
shall be deemed to have been under and in subordination to the
legal title, unless it appear that such premises have been held and
possessed adversely to such legal title for seven years before the
commencement of such action.‘

Applied.--Kendrick v. Latham, 25 Fla., 189; Levy v. Cox, 22 Fla., 546; Caro
v. Pensacola City Co., 19 Fla., 776. Possession must be continuous without interruption.—Townsend’s Administrators v. Edwards, 25 Fla., 582. Must show
adverse possession in defendant.—Wade v. Doyle, 17 Fla., 522. Not sufficient
to show want of seizin or possession in plaintifff, ib. Possession of person contracting to buy not adverse:-Hart v. Bostwick, 14 Fla., 16.

1290. Adverse possessionunder color of title.
1. Courmunn OCCUPATION FOR SEVEN YEARS REQUIRED.—Whenever it shall appear that the occupant, or those under whom
he claims, entered into possession of premises under claim of title
exclusive of any other right, founding such claim upon a written instrument as being a conveyance of the premises in question,
or upon the decree or judgment of a competent court, and that
there has been a continued occupation and possession of the
premises included in such instrument, decree or judgment for
seven year, the premises so included shall be deemed to have
been held adversely, except that where the premises so included
consist of a tract divided into lots, the possession of one lot shall
not be deemed a possession of any other lot of the same tract.

2. DEFINITION OF POSSESSION AND OCCUPATION REQUIRED-—
For the purpose of constituting an adverse possession by any person claiming a title founded upon a written instrument, or a
judgment or decree, land shall be deemed to have been possessed and occupied, in the following cases:

1. Where it has been usually cultivated or improved.

2. Where it has been protected by a substantial enclosure.

3. Where (although not enclosed) it has been used for the
supply of fuel, or of fencing-timber for the purpose of husbandry,
or for the ordinary use of the occupant; or

,4. Where a known lot or single farm has been partly improved, the portion of such farm or lot which may have been left
not cleared or not enclosed according to the usual course and custom of the adjoining country, shall be deemed to have been occupied for the'same length of time as the part improved or cultivated.

A “forty” is a known lot.--Kendrick v. Latham, 25 Fla., 319. Extent of
constructive possession.—Doyle v. Wade, 23 Fla., 90. 1291. Adverse possession without color of title.-—
1. TO BE LAND IN ACTUAL OCCUPATION oNLY.—Where it shall

appear that there has been an actual continued occupation for
seven years of premises under a claim of title exclusive of any
other right, but not founded upon a written instrument or a judgment or decree, the premises so actually occupied, and no other,
shall be deemed to have been held adversely.

Privit required between successive adverse occupants. What it is and how
create d.—— endrick v. Latham, 25 Fla., 819. No color or rightful title required
for adverse possession.——Horne v. Carter’s admr., 20 Fla., 45.

2. DEFINITION OF OCCUPATION AND POSSESSION REQUIRED.——
For the purpose of constituting an adverse possession by a person
claiming title not founded upon a written instrument, judgment
or decree, land shall be deemed to have been possessed and occupied in the following cases only: 1, Where it has been protected by a substantial enclosure; or 2, where it has been usually
cultivated or improved.

Applied.—Seymour v. Creswell, 18 F1a., 29.

1292. Actions of persons under disability.—If a person
entitled to commence any action for the recovery of real property,

or to make an entry or defense founded on the title to real
property, or to rents or services out of the same, be, at the time
such title shall descend or accrue, either: 1, within the age of
twenty-one years; 2, insane, or 3, imprisoned, the time during
which such disability shall continue shall not be deemed any
portion of the time in this chapter limited for the commencement
of such‘ action, or the making such entry or defense; but such
action may be commenced, or entry or defense made, within the

period of seven years, after such disability shall cease, or after the
death of the person entitled who shall die under such disability;
but such action shall not be commenced, or entry or defense
made, after that period.

But adverse possession as hereinbefore defined for thirty years

‘shall confer title even as against persons under the disabilities

mentioned in this section.
A married woman may prosecute any action concerning her
land, in her own name, and without joimng her husband.

The saving applies only to persons to whom title first accrues.—Wade v.
Doyle, 17 Fla., 522. When statute once begins to run it continues to run.—Ib.
Rejoinder of existence of guardian to replication of infancy to plea of statute is
not good.—Lanier v. Chappell, 2 F 1a.. 621.

1293. Limitations in favor of purchasers at executor’s, etc.,
sales.-—The title of any purchaser or his assigns who shall have

held possession for five years of any real estate purchased for
full value at any sale, free from fraud, made by an executor, administrator or guardian, shall not be questioned by any heir, distributee or ward upon the ground of any irregularitiy in the
proceedings or conveyances, if it appear that the proco s of such
sale have been applied bona fidc to the object and purpose for
which said sale shall have been made, nor shall such title be
questioned by any one else who has received the money to which
he was entitled, arising from said sale.

To what sales applieable.—Dean’s admr. v. Wilcoxon, 25 Fla., 980.

Adverse possession genera.1ly.—Possession under executory contract—sucoessive occupants.—-Coogler v. Rogers, 25 Fla., 854. Mortgagor’s possession not
adverse to mortgagee.—-Jordan v. Sayre, 24 Fla., 1. Special plea of adverse possession not allowable; not guilt covers.—Neal v. Spooner, 20 Fla., 38; Barco V.
Fennell, 24 Fla., 378; Wade v. oyle, 17 Fla., 522; Coffee v. Groover, 20 Fla., 64;
Weiskoph v. Dibble, 18 Fla., 24. Adverse possession for seven years confers
title.—Horne v. Carter’s admr. 20 Fla., 45 ; Sanford v. Cloud, 17 Fla., 557. Possession must continue for seven ears.—Simmons v. Spratt, 20 Fla., 495. Possession in case of disputed boun ries.—-Seymour v. Creswell, 18 Fla., 29. Time
running under foreign statutes cannot be tacked to time under domestic statutes.
—Perry v. Lewis, 6 Fla., 555. Effect of foreign statutes.—Ib.

ARTICLE 3.

PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ACTIONS OTHER THAN REAL ACTIONS.

1294. Limita.tions.—Actions other than those for the recovery of real property can only be commenced as follows:

1. WITHIN TWENTY YEARS.——AI1 action upon a judgment or
decree of a court of record in the State of Florida, and an action
upon any contract, obligation, or liability founded upon an instrument of writing under seal.

2. WITHIN SEVEN YEARS.-—AI1 action upon a judgment or decree of any court of the United States, or of any State or territory
within the United States, or of any foreign country.

3. WITHIN FIVE YEARS.-—All action upon any contract, obligation or liability founded upon an instrument of writing not
under seal. '

,4. WITHIN FOUR YEARS.-——AI1 action for any article charged
in a store account, and any action for relief not specifically provided for in this chapter.

Store account defined.—Solomon v. Pioneer Co-operative Company. 21 Fla.,
3741.“ This section applies to suits for dower and mesne profits.—Branch v. Cole,
18 a., 368.

5. WITHIN THREE YEARS.-All action upon a liability created
by statute, other than a penalty or forfeiture; an action for
trespass upon real property; an action for taking, detaining, or
injuring any goods or chattels, including actions for the specific
recovery of personal property; an action for relief on the ground
of fraud, the cause of action in such case not to be deemed to
have accrued until the discovery by the aggrieved party of the
facts constituting the fraud ; and an action upon a contract, obligation or liability not founded upon an instrument of writing,
except an action on an open account for goods, wares and merchandise. '

F] Applied to action fortrespass to rea1ty.—S. F. & W. Ry. Co. v. Davis, 25
a., 917.

6. WITHIN Two YEARS.-—AI1 action by another than the State
upon a statute for a penalty or forfeiture; an action for libel,
slander, assault, battery or false imprisonment; an action on an

open account for goods, wares and merchandise, sold and
delivered. ‘

What is cause of action’ for goods sold.—-Tate v. Clemens, 16. Fla., 340.

7. WITHIN ONE YEAR.—An action by the State for a penalty
or forfeiture under a penal act of the legislature.

In an action brought to recover a balance due upon a mutual,
open and current account, where there have been reciprocal
demands between the parties, the cause of action shall be deemed
to have accrued from the time of the last item proved in the
account on either side.

1295. Causes of action arising out of the 8tate.—When the
cause of action has arisen in another state or territory of the

United States, or in a foreign country, and by the laws thereof, an
action thereon cannot there be maintained againsta person by
reason of the lapse of time, no action thereon shall be maintained
against him in this State.

CHAPTER XXVII.

LEGAL AND OFFICIAL ADVERTISEMENTS.

ARTICLE 1.—Publieation of. Sections . . . . . . . . . . 1296, 1297
2.-Rates of advertising. Section . . . . . . . . 1298
ARTICLE 1.

PUBLICATION OF.

1296. Where to be published.-—Ofiicial and 1egal.advertisements relating to any proceeding in any court in this State, and

all legal notices and advertisements of sheriffs and tax colleetors, shall, unless otherwise provided by law, be published
in some newspaper published in the county where such publication is required to be made.

1297. Substitution of one county for another.—When any
law, or order or decree of a court, shall direct advertisements to

be made in any county, and there be no newspaper published in
said county, the advertisement shall be made by publication in
the nearest county .in which a newspaper is published, and by
posting at the court-house and at three other public places in the
county.

ATRICLE 2.

RATES FOR ADVERTISING.

=b1298. Amounts chargeable.-—'I‘he publisher of any paper publishing any official notice or legal advertisement, shall not charge

more than one dollar per inch for the first insertion, and fifty
cents per inch for each subsequent insertion, in single column,
nonpareil type; and when any official notice or legal advertisement is required by law to be published more than two months,
the charge shall not exceed three-fourths of the above rates for
all the excess of time, above two months, of said publication.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

OATHS.

1299. By whom to be administered.1. IN THIS Sr.vrE.—Jud,<:es and clerks of the supreme court,
circuit courts, judges of probate, justices of the peace, and notaries public of this State, are authorized to administer oaths in all
cases in which by law oaths are required to be administered.

2. IN OTHER STATES AND TERRITORIES, AND IN THE DISTRICT
or COLUMBIA.-The administration of an oath to any person by
any judge or clerk of any supreme court, circuit court, chancery
court, or a notary public, of any state or_territory of the United
States, or of the District of Columbia, shall be as effectual when
authenticated by the signature and official seal of such officer administering such oath as if it had been administered by a like
officer of this State.

3. IN FOREIGN coUN'rR1Es.—The administration of an oath to
any person by any judge of a court of last resort, or by a notary
public of any foreign country, or by any minister, consul-general,
charge d’affaires, or consul of the United States resident in such
country, shall be as effectual when authenticated by the signature and official seal of such officer administering such oath as if
it had been administered in this State by an officer authorized to
administer it.

1300. Ami-mation equivalent to oath.—Whenever an oath
shall be required by any law of this State in any proceeding, an
affirmation may be substituted therefore.

CHAPTER XXIX.

COSTS, IN CIVIL CASES.

Security for costs. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1301

Taxation of. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1302

Record of. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1303

Recovery of, from losing party. Section . . . . . . . . . . 1304

Unlawful, exaction of prohibited. Section . . . . . . . . 1305

Publicity given to fee bills. Section . . . . . . . . . . . 1306

1301. Security for costs by non-residents.—Whenever a complainant or plaintifff who is a non-resident shall commence a suit

in any of the courts of this State, or whenever a complainant or
plaintifff after the institution of a suit shall remove himself or his
effects out of this State, it shall be the duty of himself, or his
agent, or attorney, to file in the court in which said suit is
brought a bond, with approved security, in the sum of one hundred dollars, conditioned for the payment of all costs and charges
which may be adjudged against him in said suit; and, upon
a failure to file such bond and security within thirty days after
such commencement, or such removal, the defendant may, after
thirty days’ notice to the plaintifff or his attorney (during which
the plaintifff may file such bond), move to dismiss the suit for
want of such security, or may hold the attorney bringing or prosecuting said suit liable for said costs and charges, and if they be
adjudged against said plaintifff, an execution may issue against
said attorney for the same.

1302. Taxation of costs.——The clerks of the several courts, or
the judge if there be no clerk, shall tax the costs accruing in each

case when the same is determined, or at the close of each term of

the court, and shall keep a duplicate of the bill of costs on file
among the original papers in the suit.

In such bill each item of costs shall be enumerated.

1303. Record of costs.~A1l officers of this State who are allowed to charge fees and costs, shall keep a book in which they
shall record an itemized account of all the costs and fees which

they charge against parties having business with them. Said
book shall be at all times open for the inspection of parties wishing to examine the costs charged for any service rendered by said
officer or officers.

1304. Recovery of costs from losing party.—In all cases the
party recovering the judgment shall recover also all his legal

costs and charges, which shall be included in the judgment; but this sect.ion shall not be construed to relate to executors or
administrators in cases wherein by law they are not liable to costs
of suit. ‘

Such costs may be collected :

1. By execution upon the judgment aforesaid ; or

2. By delivery to the sheriff of a taxed bill of costs approved
by the judge of the court wherein the services have been rendered, which bill shall have the force and effect of an execution,

and shall be collected by the sheriff as in other cases of exccunon.

In equity costs do not always follow judgment.—Myers v. Coiner, 22 Fla.,
472 ; White v. Walker, 5 Fla., 479; Lewis v. Yale, 4 Fla., 441.

1305. Prohibition against unlawful exaction of costs.1. PROHIBITION.-—NO officer shall make two charges for the
same ofiicial act or service, nor charge for any constructive service,
and no fees shall be charged in any case, or for any official service
performed or claimed to be performed by any officer within the
State, unless said fees be expressly authorized and their amount
be specified by law. 2. PENALTY.-—When any officer shall willfully and knowingly
charge or levy more than he is really entitled to, such officer shall
forfeit and pay to the party injured four times the amount so unjustly claimed, to be recovered on motion before the court wherein the serviccs were rendered.

RECOVERY OF ILLEG-ALLY EXACTED COSTS.

1. SUMMARY PROCEEDII\'GS.—Any person feeling aggrieved by
any charge made for costs by any such olficer,.shall have the correctness of the same determined by a court and jury, on giving
five days’ previous notice to the officer making such objectionable charge, stating in said notice the time and place when and
where the same shall be inquired into; and it shall be the duty
of the clerk of the court, or the judge if there be no clerk, before
which such officer is notified to appear, to enter such cause for
trial on the day specified in the notice aforesaid, and said cause
shall be tried on that day unless postponed by the court.

2. OATH or JURY.-—TlleI‘e shall be administered to the jury
empaneled to try the legality of such charge, the following oath :

“You and each of you do solemnly swear that you will truth“fully and faithfully examine whether, in the matter of contro“versybetween...  .. .....and......«
“. . . . . . . . .,said. . . . . . . .hasbeenguilt_yof
“extortion, and a true verdict render. So help you God.”

3. VERDICT AND JUDGMEN'r.—If the jury find for the plaintifff,
they shall find the amount which has been improperly collected,
and thereupon the court in which such trial is had shall enter up
judgment for four times the amount found by the jury as aforesaid, in favor of the plaintifff, on which judgment execution shall
issue as in other cases.

1306. Publicity given to fee bil1s.—The attorney-general is
required to prepare and cause to be printed a sufficient number
of copies of fee bills of the various officers of the several counties
of this State, and send, or cause to be sent, copies of said fee bills
to all county officers in this State. Such officers shall keep
posted in a conspicuous place in their offices such fee bills, for
the information of persons having business with them.

CHAPTER XXX.

OF LEGAL TIME.

1307. Standard time a.dopted.—Whenever specific hours are
designated in the statutes of this State, during which legal proceedings may be had, the same shall be understood to mean

standard time of the central or 90th meridian.

TITLE II.

OF PROVISIONS APPLICABLE ONLY TO THE SUPREME COURT.

CHAPTER 1.—Its statutory powers. Sections . . . . . 1308,1309
2.—Its justices. Section . . . . . . . . . . 1310

3.—Its terms. Sections . . . . . . . . . . 1311-1313

4.—Its records. Sections . . . . . . . . . 1314,1315

5.—Its clerk. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . 1316-1321

6.—Its sheriff. Sections . . . . . . . . . . 1322-1325

7.—Its seal. Section . . . . . . . . . . . 1326
8.—Its decisions, and reports thereof. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1327-1335

9.—Its1ibrary. Sections . . . . . . . . . . 1336-1339
10.—Costs therein, and execution therefore. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1340, 1341

CHAPTER I.

ITS STATUTORY POWERS.

1308. Power to make rules and regulations.—-The supreme
court shall have the following powers, and action taken by it

thereunder shall have the force of law until otherwise provided
by the legislature, to-wit:

1. To make, etc., rules of practice.

To make, amend, annul or modify rules of practice or pleading of the supreme or any other court, as it may see fit, not inconsistent with law.

Can make rule requiring deposit or bond to cover clerk’s costs.—Robinson v‘
Roberts, 16 Fla., 156.

2. To make, etc., rules relating to process.

To make rules for the issuing and return of process in all
courts, not inconsistent with law.

3. To regulate entry of judgments.

To regulate the manner in which judgments may be entered
in all courts, such regulations to be not inconsistent with law.

4. To make and prescribe forms.

To make and prescribe such new or altered forms of practice,
pleadings and proceedings for all the courts of the State as it may
think necessary. *

1309. Power to execute its decrees.—The supreme court is
vested with all the power and authority necessary for carrying

into complete execution all its judgments, decrees and determinations in the matter before it, agreeably to the usages and principles of law.

CHAPTER II.

JUSTICES OF SUPREME COURT.

1310. Substitution of circuit judges for.-—Whenever any
justice of the supreme court shall be disqualified or disabled on

account of interest or otherwise to hear and determine any cause
or matter pending in said court, or brought before it, it shall be
the duty of the clerk of said court upon the suggestion of the
justices notso disqualified, to notify a judge of a circuit court,
and request his attendance in said supreme court at a time to be
named, when the said cause or matter may be heard; and it
shall be the duty of such circuit judge upon receiving such notice
to attend at the time designated at the supreme court room; and
said judge shall be invested with full authority to hear and determine such causes as a member of said supreme court. ‘ '

Must be absolute legal disqnalification.—Trustees v. Bailey, 10 Fla., 213.
Who should determine existence of disqualification. \Vhat interest disqualilies.-—Ib. This section constitutional, 8 Fla.. 459, 4 Fla., 4. Circuit judge cannot
be compelled to attend, 8 Fla., 459.—Cf. Gritfin v. O1-man, 5 Fla., 332. As to
whether less than three can constitute court, 4 Fla., 4.

CHAPTER III.

ITS TERMS.
Regular terms. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1311
Special terms. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1312
Attendance of justices. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1313

1311. Regular terms.—The supreme court shall hold two
terms in each year, in the supreme court room in the capitol, commencing respectively on the second Tuesday in January and June.
The court may adjourn from time to time, as may be deemed
necessary for the dispatch of business.

Effect of adjournment before and during term.-—-Wilson v. Lott, 5 Fla., 302.

1312. Special terms.—The justices, or a majority of them,
may appoint special terms to be held at such times as may be
deemed necessary for the public interest.

1313. Attendance of justices.—If a quorum of the justices
shall not attend on the first day of the court, the clerk shall enter
the fact upon his minutes, a11d the court shall stand adjourned
until the succeeding (lay, a11d so from day to day for six (lays;
and if a quorum shall not appear for six days, all matters pending in said court shall stand continued as of course until the next
term, and no matter or action shall thereby abate or be discontinued. If, however, one of the justices shall appear before the

expiration of the sixth day, he may adjourn the court from time
to time, for such time as may be deemed necessary to enable a
quorum to be present, in which case all matters pending shall be
continued until a quorum shall be present ; but such justice may
in the meantime hear and decide such matters as may be submitted, not involving the final determination of cases. He may,
however, hear and determine, matters arising under writs of
habeas corpus.

CHAPTER IV.
RECORDS OF THE SUPREME COURT.
Records of territorial court of appeals. Section . . . . . . . 1314
Its own records. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1315

1314. Records of territorial court of appeals.—'I‘he files,
rolls, and books of record of the court of appeals of the late

territory of Florida, so far as the same by the concurrence of the
congress of the United States and of the legislature of this
State may relate to matters of appropriate State authority and.
jurisdiction, are placed in the custody and under the control of
the supreme court of this State, and are files, rolls and records
of the said supreme court; and the said court may lawfully have
and exercise such judicial cognizance and power over them as it
may lawfully have and exercise over its own files, rolls and
records.

Judgment of territorial court of appeals conclusive.—Brett v. Ming, 1 Fla.,
447. .

1315. Its own records.1. THE MAKING or RECORDS.-—Tl1e clerk shall keep in substantially bound books, fair and regular minutes of the proceedings of said court, a record of all its judicial acts, a docket of its
cases, and such other books as the court may from time to time
order or direct.

2. CUSTODY oF.—All books, papers, records, files and the seal
of the court shall be kept in the office of the clerk of said court

CHAPTER V.

CLERK OF THE SUPREME COURT.

His appointment and term of oiiice. Section . . . . . . . 1316

His bond. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1317

Location of office. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1318

His duties. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1319

His deputy. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1320

His compensation. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1321

1316. His appointment and term of office.—He shall be
appointed by the supreme court, or a majority of the justices
thereof, and shall hold office during their pleasure.

1317. His bond.—The clerk of the supreme court shall givibond in the sum of two thousand dollars, payable to the governor, to be approved by two justices of the court, conditioned for
the faithful discharge of the duties of his office, and it shall l)('
filed in the office of the secretary of State.

1318. Location of his oEce.—He shall have his office in the
capitol of the State, in a room contiguous to the supreme court

room, to be assigned to him for that purpose.

1819. His duties.1. To BE LIBRARIAN.-—He shall be librarian of the supreme

court library.

2. To BE CUSTODIAN or BOOKS, E'rc.—He shall be custodian of
all books, etc., mentioned in sections 1314 and 1315.

3. To KEEP PROPER MINUTES, E'rc.—Hc shall keep the records
of the court as provided in section 1315.

4. Hrs DU’1‘IES G-ENERALLY.——I'Ie shall do and perform all
other things which by law or the rules of court may appertain to
his office.

1320. Deputy of clerk of supreme court.—He may appoint a
deputy Who, being duly sworn, may discharge all the duties of

the office of clerk during his absence. The clerk shall in all cases
be responsible for the acts of such deputy, and provide for his
compensation.

1321. Compensation of clerk.-—He shall, as librarian, receive
a per diem equal to the sum of three hundred dollars per annum

for his services; as clerk, he shall receive three dollars for each
day of the year, except Sundays, and such fees as are paid under
the law to clerks of circuit courts for like services. His accounts
for copies of opinions, decisions, etc., furnished to the attorneygeneral, shall, upon approval by one of the justices, be audited
and allowed by the comptroller, and paid by the treasurer.

CHAPTER _ VI.

SHERIFF OF THE SUPREME COURT.

Sheriff of county, to be. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1322
His duties. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1323
His deputy. Section . . . . ._ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1324
His compensation. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1325

1322. Sheriff of county, to be.,-—The sheriff of the county~in
which the court is held shall be the sheriff of the supreme court.

1323. His duties.1. To ATTEND COURT, AND EXECUTE PRoCEss.—He shall in

person, or by deputy, attend all sessions of the supreme court, and
serve all process required to be served. '

What “process” is meant.—Williams v. La Penotiere, 25 Fla., 473.

2. To PROCUBE NECESSARY ARTICLES FOB COURT AND CLERK.
—He shall, upon requisition by the chief justice, purchase all
necessary articles to be procured for the use of said court and its
clerk, upon the credit of the State, at such prices as shall be reasonable, fair and customary, at such places as he may be able to *

procure them; and his account for the same approved by the
chief justice shall be audited and allowed by the comptroller, and
paid by the treasurer.

3. Hrs DUTIES GENERALLY.—-He shall perform such other
duties as the supreme court may require of him as its executive

officer.

1324. Deputy of sheriff of supreme court.—He may appoint
a deputy in the county in which he resides, and all the sheriff}:

of the State shall ex-ojicio be his deputies in their respective
counties for the execution of process from said court.

1325. Compensation of sheriff.—See section 1255.

—:-.—.—_j___.._:._ __.

CHAPTER VII.

ITS SEAL.

1326. Procurement, etc.—-The seal of the supreme court shall
be provided, approved, paid for, and replaced and an impression
thereof deposited, as are seals of the circuit court.

CHAPTER VIII.

DECISIONS AND REPORTS OF THE SUPREME COURT.

An'rrcLn 1.—Its decisions. Sections . . . . . . . . . . '. . 1327-1329
2.—Its reports. Sections‘ . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1330-1335
ARTICLE 1.

ITS DECISIONS.

1327. Headnotes to be prepared by justice.—The judge of
the supreme court of this State delivering the opinion of the court
shall prepare and make a syllabus or statement of the points and
principles intended to be decided by the court, which shall be filed
with the opinion and published in the reports at the beginning of
the opinion, in lieu of that usually prepared by the reporter.

When obiter dictum.—Hart’s Executors v. Stribling, 25 F1a., 435.

1328. Decisions to be filed. Oopies to be furnished.-—All
decisions and opinions delivered by said court or any justice

thereof in relation to any action or proceeding pending in said
court shall be filed and remain in the office of the clerk, and
shall not be taken out except by order of the court; but said
clerk shall at all times be required to furnish to any person who
may desire the same certified copies of such opinions and decisions upon receiving his fees therefore. (Opinions not to be recorded, Chapter 4031, act June 8, 1891, Appendix.)

No written opinion required when court equally divided.—Fraser v. Willey,
2 Fla., 116. '

1329. Copies to be furnished attorney-general.—The clerk
shall furnish and deliver to the attorney-general, within a reasonable time after the adjournment of each term of the court, duly
certified copies of the headnotes, opinions and statements of cases
made by the justices, and of briefs of counsel in each case decided at such term, and furnish and deliver to the ‘attorney-gem
eral on his requiring the same duly certified copies of, or extracts
from, any other papers or records appertaining to any case decided by the court.

~__.,._..___ __._.—_.—._.

ARTICLE 2.

ITS REPORTS.

1330. The attorney-general to be reporter.—'l‘he attorneygeneral shall report all the decisions of the supreme court sanctioned by a majority of the judges thereof.

1331. Number of volumes to be printed and bound.-—The
number of each volume of reports to be printed and bound shall

be fixed by the chief justice.

1332. Payment for bind.ing.—The binding of all volumes of
such reports shall be paid for by the clerk of the court out of the
proceeds of the sales of volumes sold by him.

1333. ‘Sale of volumes.
1. PRICE AT WHICH CLERK AUTHORIZED TO SELL.—-The clerk

of said court is authorized to receive from the contractor printing
them and to sell volumes of such reports at the following prices:
For volumes bound in law sheep three dollars, and for unbound
volumes two dollars, and to sell unbound volumes reprinted
under the provisions of chapter 3904, Laws of Florida, at two and
one-half dollars per volume.

2. CLERK TO ACCOUNT FOR PROCEEDS.-—Tlle clerk shall keep an
accurate account of the sales made by him, and make report to
the court at each term thereof of the number of volumes sold
and the amount received therefore, and of the expenditure thereof
for binding.

3. BOND TO so ACCOUNT.-—Tl‘le clerk shall, in addition to the
bond prescribed by section 1317, execute to the governor a bond
in the penalty of two thousand dollars, with suretiei to be approved by the comptroller, and conditioned that he shall faithfully account for all of said volumes of reports and the monies
received for them.

1334. Disposition of proceeds.-—The said clerk, after paying
for the binding of such volumes as may be bound, shall, under
the direction of the supreme court, expend the proceeds of the
volumes sold by him for rebinding such worn books as may be
rebound, for the purchase of such new books as may be
required by said‘ justices to be purchased for the library, and for
such incidental expenses as may be necessarily incurred in connectiou with the office of librarian of the court, and shall pay
the residue thereof into the State treasury on the first day of
January, April, July and August of each year.

_ 1335. Distribution of volumes.—The reports of the‘ decisions»
of the supreme court shall be distributed as follows: The contractor shall cause to be delivered the whole number of copies
printed for the State to the clerk of the supreme court, to be kept
in his custody for distribution and sale, and said clerk shall deliver or transmit one bound copy thereof to the governor and one
to each cabinet officer, to each of the justices of the supreme court,
to each circuit judge, to each county judge, to each judge of the
criminal courts of record, to each State attorney, to each county
solicitor of the criminal courts of record, and to each of the judges
of the United States district court for the northern and southern
districts of Florida. A bound copy thereof shall be transmitted
by mail or express to the governor of each State which sends the
reports of its courts to this State.

CHAPTER IX.

LIBRARY OF THE SUPREME COURT.

The librarian. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1336
Acquisition of books for. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1337
Custody of. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1338
Report as to condition of. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1339

1336. The 1ibra.rian.—The librarian and his compensation
are provided for by sections 1319 and 1321.

1337. Acquisition of books.1. BY PURCHASE.—-From proceeds of sales of reports, see

section 1333.

2. BY EXCHANGE.—S11Ch numbers of reports, statutes and
journals as shall be obtained by the chief justice upon his request, from the secretary of State, shall be exchanged by the
librarian with the appropriate authorities of the United States
and other states and territories for corresponding numbers of
their reports.

1338. Oustody of the 1ibrary.—The library is placed in the
custody of the librarian, but under the exclusive control and
supervision of the supreme court. It shall be kept in the supreme

court room at the capitol, and in no instance shall the books be
taken from the capitol.

1339. Report of condition of 1ibrary.—The librarian shall
prepare and file in his office a list of the books in the library under his control on the first day of January and July of each year,
and in such list he shall show. What books have been lost from
the library since his last return, as Well as what additional books
have been received.

CHAPTER X.

0

COSTS IN THE SUPREME COURT AND EXECUTION THEREFOR.

Certain costs nottobe taxed. Section . . . . . . . . . . 1340
Execution for costs. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341

1340. Oertain costs not to be taxed.—The costs of copies of
the record of any paper on file in the court shall not be taxed as

costs against the losing party unless such copies shall have been
ordered by him or his attorney.

1341. Execution for costs.—On the rendition of any judgment
or decree in said court for costs, the clerk, as soon as may be by
the rules of court, shall issue execution in accordance with the
terms of said judgment or decree, directed to all and singular the
sheriffs of the State of Florida, and returnable in ninety days
from the date of the issuance thereof.

TITLE III.

OF PROVISIONS APPLICABLE ONLY TO THE CIRCUIT COURT.

-CHAPTER 1.—Its judges. Sections . . A . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342,1343
2.—Its State attorney. Sections . . . . . . . . . . 1344-1358
3.—Counties composing the circuits. Sections . . . . 1359-1365
4.-—Its terms. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1366-1380

5.—Its clerk. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1381-1395

6.—Its sheriff. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1396-1398'

7.—Its stenographer. Section . . . . . . . . . . . 1399

8.—Its seal. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ' 1400

9.—-Its records. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401-1406
10.—Its chancery jurisdiction and procedure. Sections . 1407-1510
11.—Its special statutory jurisdiction. Sections . . . . 1511-1564

Ejectment. Sections . . . . . . . . . .  . 1511-1522
Establishment of lost records, etc. Sections . . . 1523-1535
Adoption of minors. Sections . . . . . . . . . 1536-1541
Declaring invalidity of tax assessments. Section . 1542
Change of names of persons. Section . . . . . . ‘ 1543
Condemnation proceedings. Sections . . . . . 1544-1564
12.—Its court commissioners. Sections . . . . . . . . 1565-1570
13.—-Stationery, etc. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . 1571
CHAPTER I.
JUDGES OF THE CIRCUIT COURTS-—-THEIR STATUTORY POWERS AND
DUTIES.
To be conservators of the peace. Section . . _ . . . . . . . . 1342
To call over docket at end of term. Section . . . . . . . . . . 1343

1342. To be conservators of the peace.-—The judges of the
circuit courts respectively shall ex:-oflicio be conservators of the
peace, and have and exercise, whenever they may deem it fit and
proper, all the duties and powers of justices of the peace in criminal cases, except the trial of such cases, and shall have power and
authority, if they see fit, to admit prisoners to bail Where it may
have been refused by any justice of the peace.

1343. To call over docket at end of term.—-It shall be the
duty of the judge, at each term of the court, after other business
of the term shall have been disposed of, to call over all the causes
standing upon the dockets, and to make such orders and entries
therein as shall be found necessary in relation thereto.

CHAPTER II.
THE STATE‘ AiTTORNEY—-HIS POWERS, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
ARTICLE l.—Prosecution of suits and attendance upon courts. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1344-1346

2.—Collection of and accounting for monies. Sections . . . 1347-1349
3.—Making reports. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1350
4.—Compromising with debtors to State. Sections . . . . 1351,1352
5.—Surrender of papers to his successor. Section . . . . . 1353

6.—His assistants. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1354,1355

7.—His compensation. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1356-1358

ARTICLE 1.

PROSECUTION OF SUITS AND ATTENDANCE UPON COURTS.

1344. Before the court itse1f.——It shall be his duty to appear

in the circuit court within his judicial circuit, and prosecute or
defend on behalf of the State all suits, applications or motions,
civil or criminal, in which the State is a party.

1345. Before the grand jury.—Whenever required by the
grand jury, it shall be his duty to attend them for the purpose of
examining Witnesses in their presence, or of giving legal advice
in any matter before them; and he shall prepare bills of indictment.

1346. Summoning witnesses for state.—It shall be his duty
to have summoned all witnesses required on behalf of the State.

ARTICLE 2.

COLLECTION OF AND ACCOUNTING FOR MONEYS.

1347. To be charged with claims.—The comptroller of the
State shall charge the several State attorneys with all claims
whatever which he may place in their hands for collection of
money for and on behalf of the. State, or which he may otherwise
require them to collect. '

1348. How discharged.——Said charges shall be evidence of
indebtedness on the part of any State attorney against whom any

charge is made for the full amount of such claim to the State
until the same shall be collected and paid into the treasury, or
sued to insolvency, which fact of insolvency shall be certified by
the circuit judge of his circuit, unless said State attorney shall
make it fully appear to the comptroller that the failure to collect
the same did not result from his neglect.

1349. Report upon claims committed to h.im.—He shall make
a report to the comptroller on the first Monday in January and
July in each and every year of the condition of all claims placed
in his hands or which he may have been required to prosecute
and collect, whether the same is in suit or in judgment, or collected, and the probable solvency or insolvency of claims not collected, and_shall at the same time pay over all monies which he
may have collected belonging to the State; and the comptroller
shall not audit or allow any claim which any State attorney may
have against the State for services until he make the report herein
required.

ARTICLE 3.

REPORTS OF CASE.

. 1350. Duty to make report of cases, etc.——He shall within
thirty days after the final adjournment of the circuit court, at
each term thereof, forward to the comptroller of public accounts a
full and complete statement and report of all the cases in which
the State is a party, or is otherwise interested ; which report shall
contain the title of the cases, date when commenced, offense
charged, or if civil, cause of action sued on, and the steps taken
in, or disposition made of, each case at the term ; in cases of conviction, punishment imposed ; in civil cases, the amount and date
of judgment, if any, and such other matters as may be necessary

and material for the public information as to the progress of the
State cases.

ARTICLE 4.

OOMPROMISING WITH DEBTOR TO STATE.

1351. Power to compromise.—He is authorized, with the approval of the comptroller, to compromise and settle all judgments,
claims and demands in favor of the State in his circuit, against
defaulting collectors of revenue, sheriffs and other officers, and
the sureties on their bonds, on such terms as he may deem equitable and proper.

And any such compromise or settlement may be made with
any of the sureties of such defaulting officer as to his individual
liability, and a receipt to such surety shall be a discharge of his
obligation ; but the discharge of one or more of the sureties so

compromised and settled with shall not operate as a discharge of
the principal or other sureties from the judgment, claim or demand in favor of the State.

1352. Oompletion of compromise.—He shall on agreeing to
any compromise or settlement, report the same to the comptroller
of the State for his approval; and, on his approving such compromise or settlement, it shall be the duty of the said State attorney, on a compliance with the terms of such compromise or settlement, to give a receipt to the collector of revenue, sheriff or
other officer, or the sureties on their bonds, or to their legal representatives, which receipt shall be a discharge from all judgments,
claims or demands of the State against such collector of revenue
or other officer, or the sureties on their bonds.

ARTICLE 5.

SURRENDER OF PAPERS, E'I‘C., TO HIS SUCCESOR.

1353. Duty prescribed.-—Upon the qualification of the successor of any State attorney, the State attorney going out of office
shall deliver to his successor a statement of all cases for the collection of money in favor of the State under his control, and the
papers connected with the same, and take his receipt for the
same, which receipt, when filed with the comptroller, shall release
such State attorney from any further liability to the State upon
the claims’ receipted for ; and the State attorney receiving the
claims shall be liable in all respects for the same, as provided
against State attorneys in section 1347.

ARTICLE 6.

H I8 ASSISTA NTS.

1354. Acting State attorney_—Whenever there shall be a vacancy in the office of State attorney in any of the judicial circuits
of this State, either by non-appointment or otherwise, or if a State
attorney shall not be present at any regular or special term of the
court, or being present, shall from any cause be unable to perform
the duties of his office, the judge of said circuit court shall have full
power to appoint a prosecuting attorney from among the members of the bar, with the consent of the member so appointed, to
whom shall be administered an oath to faithfully discharge the
duties of State attorney, and who shall have as full and complete
authority, and whose acts shall be in all respects as valid as a
regularly appointed State attorney. He shall sign all indictments
and other documents as “acting State attorney.” The power of
the said appointee shall cease upon the arrival of the State attorney or the cessation of his inability.

He shall receive the fees prescribed for the State attorney,
which shall be audited and allowed by the comptroller, and paid
such acting State attorney upon his sworn account, approved by
the judge appointing him_.

1355. Assistant to State attorney.—The State attorney, by
and with the consent of court, may procure the assistance of any

member of the bar when the amount of the State business renders
it necessary, either in the grand jury room to advise them upon
legal points and framing indictments, or in court to prosecute
criminals. But such assistant shall not be authorized to sign any
indictments or administer any oaths, or to perform any other duty
except the giving of legal advice, drawing up of indictments, and
the prosecuting of criminals in open court. His compensation
shall be paid bythe State attorney, and not by the State.

ARTICLE 5.

1118 CO MPENSATION.

1356. The amount and payment of compensation.
1. PER DIEM.—-He shall receive three dollars ($3) per diem

(Sundays excepted) per annum, to be audited by the comptroller
and paid by the treasurer, quarterly.

2. FEES FOR CONVICTION.——He shall receive for a conviction of
murder in the first degree thirty’ ($30) dollars, ten ($10) dollars
for each conviction in other cases of felony, and five ($55) dollars
for each conviction in cases of misdemeanor; such fee to be taxed
as costs against the person convicted, and to be paid to him when
collected by the several sheriffs of the respective counties of each
circuit.

3. PERCENTAGE, AND ACTUAL EXPENSES, UPON COLLECTIONS.——
He shall receive from the State his actual expenses incurred in
the prosecution of all charges against collectors of revenue, sheriffs or other officers, or the sureties on their bonds, and a commission of 10 per cent. on all monies collected by him, or paid
into the treasury on account of any claim prosecuted or compromised by him, the amount of his expenses and his commissions to
be paid by the treasurer of the State on the warrant of the comptroller, who shall issue his warrant for the same on the presentation of accounts duly sworn to, such payments to be made out of
the funds received from the claim or claims prosecuted, and to
be charged as an expense incurred in the prosecution of such
claim or claims; and in case there be no collection, the actual expenses to be paid out of any money in the treasury not otherwise
appropriated.

1357. Deduction from compensation.1. WHEN REQUIRED.—-Each State attorney shall attend all the
courts in the judicial circuit to which he has been appointed, and
upon his failure to do so, except in case of sickness, he shall forfeit to the State ten ($10) dollars per day for every day of such
failure, and the comptroller of the State shall deduct the amount
of such forfeitures from the compensation of such State attorney
upon the certificate of the circuit judge to the number of days of
such failure. The State attorney shall not, however, be required
to remain in attendance at any term of court after the criminal
business shall have been disposed of.

2. WHEN NOT PERMITTED.——The comptroller shall not make
any deduction from any compensation earned by a State attorney
because of any charge against him for any claims placed in his
hands, unless he shall have failed to account for and pay over the
same as provided in sections 1347 to 1349.

1358. When conviction fees to be paid by the State.In all cases of convictions under criminal charges in the circuit

courts, the conviction fee of the State attorney shall be taxed with
the costs in the case, and paid by the defendant; if the defendant does not pay the same and by the return of the sheriff it be
shown that it cannot be made out of the goods and chattels of
the convicted defendant, it shall be paid by the State treasurer
after audit by the comptroller upon presentation of the certificate
of the clerk of the court in which the conviction is made, showing such conviction, the nature thereof, that the defendant has
not paid such fee, and that the sheriff has made a return showing that the defendant has not sufficient goods from which the

said fee can be made.
\

CHAPTER III.

COUNTIES COMPOSING THE SEVERAL CIRCUITS.

The several circuits of this State are composed of the following counties, respectively :

1359. The drst judicial circuit, of Escambia, Santa Rosa,
Walton, Holmes, Washington and Jackson.

1360. The second judicial circuit, of Gadsden, Liberty, Calhoun, Franklin, Leon, Wakulla and Jefferson.

1361. The third judicial circuit, of Madison, Taylor, Lafayette, Hamilton, Suwannee and Columbia‘.

1362. The fourth judicial circuit, of Nassau, Duval, Baker,
Bradford, Clay and St. Johns.

1363. The hfth judicial circuit, of Putnam, Alachua, Levy,
Marion and Sumter.

1364. The sixth judicial circuit, of Hernando, Hillsborough,
Manatee, Polk, Monroe, DeSoto, Pasco, Citrus and Lee.‘

1365. The seventh judicial circuit, of Volusia, Brevard,
Orange, Dade, Osceola. and Lake.

CHAPTER IV.

TERMS OF THE CIRCUIT COURT.

ARTICLE l.—Its regular terms. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . 1366-1372
2.—Its special terms. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . 1373
3.—Exchange of, and assignment of judges. Sections . 1374-1376
4.—-Attendance of judges. Sections . . . . . . . . . 1377-1380

ARTICLE 1.

ITS REGULAR TERMS.

The regular terms of the several circuit courts shall be held
at the county seats of the respective counties at the following

times :
1366. First judicial circuit.—

1. SPRING 'rERMs.—Santa Rosa, last Monday in March.

Escambia, second Monday in April.

Walton, first Monday after fourth Monday in April.
Holmes, second Monday after fourth Monday in April.
Washington, third Monday after fourth Monday in April.
Jackson, fourth Monday after fourth Monday in April.

2. FALL 'rERMs.—Santa Rosa, second Monday in October,

Walton, fourth Monday in October,

Holmes, second Wednesday after fourth Monday in October,
Washington, second Monday after fourth Monday in October,
J ackson, third Monday after fourth Monday in October.
Escambia, first Monday in December.

1367. Second judicial circuit.—See chapter 4059, Acts of
1891, Appendix.

1368. Third judicial circuit.—See chapter 4060, Acts of 1891,
Appendix.

1369. Fourth judicial circuit.~See chapter 4061, Acts of
1891, Appendix.

1370. Fifth judicial circuit.—

L SPRING 'rER.\Is.—Sumter, first Tuesday in March.
Marion, third Tuesday in March.
Putnam, third Tuesday after third Tuesday in March.
Levy, fourth Tuesday after fourth Tuesday in March.
Alachua, second Tuesday after ‘fourth Tuesday in April.

2. FALL 'rI«:RMs.—Sumter, fourth Tuesday in September.
Marion, second Tuesday in October.

Putnam, second Tuesday in November.
Levy, fourth Tuesday in November.
Alachua, second Tuesday after fourth Tuesday in November.

1371. Sixth judicial circu.it.—-See chapter 4062, Acts of 1891,
Appendix. 1372. Seventh judicial circuit.1. SPRING TERMS.-—Bl‘eVaI‘d, second Tuesday in February.

Volusia, fourth Tuesday in February.

Osceola, third Tuesday in March.

Orange, first Tuesday in April.

Lake, fourth Tuesday in April.

Dade, third Tuesday in May.

2. FALL 'rERMs.—Breva.rd, first Tuesday in September.

Volusia, third Tuesday in September.

Osceola, second Tuesday in October.

Orange, fourth Tuesday in October.

Lake, third Tuesday in November.

Dade, second Tuesday in December.

ARTICLE 2.

ITS SPECIAL TERMS.

1373. Judges authorized to order.—The judges of the circuit courts are authorized to order and hold extra and special
terms of said courts whenever in their judgment the public Welfare and the cause of justice require the same; and the order for
such special terms may be made either in term time or vacation.

Fla J éiscgge may fix time to which special term shall adjourn.-Bass v. State, 17
0, U ‘

ARTICLE 3.

EXCHANGE OF CIRCUITS, AND ASSIGNMENT OF JUDGES.

1374. Governor authorized to order.—Whcnever it shall appear to the governor of this State that any judge of a circuit court
is absent from his circuit and cannot hold the courts of the same,
or is disqualified in any cause pending in said court, or for any
cause cannot properly hear, try and determine the same, the governor may require an exchange of circuits or of courts in any of
the counties of the circuit between such judge and any other judge
of a circuit court, or may appoint and assign any other of the

judges of the circuit court to hold regular or special terms of the
court in such circuit at such time or times as the governor may

direct.

1375. Penalty for failure ofjudge to obey orders.-—-The failure of any judge to perform the duty required of him by the governor under the preceding section shall be cause of impeachment
of such judge.

1376. Oompensation for extra expense.—-The judges of the
circuit court shall receive an increased compensation sufficient to

reimburse them for the increased expense to which they may be
subjected in performing the duties required by the governor, to
be paid on the warrant of the comptroller to be issued upon the
certificate of the governor. ARTICLE 4.

A'l"l‘ENDAN(?E OF JUDGES UPON TERMS.

1377. Judge to attend on first day of term.—Each judge of
a circuit court is required, unless prevented by sickness or other

providential causes, to attend on the first day bf each term of the
circuit court required by law to be holden; and upon failure so
to do, shall be subject to a deduction of one hundred dollars from
his salary for each and every such default.

1378. To state reasons for non-attendance.——Whenever any
judge as aforesaid shall make default as aforesaid in consequence

of sickness or providential interposition, it shall be the duty of
such judge to state the reasons of such failure, in Writing over his
official signature, to be handed to the clerk of the court, who shall
enter the same at length on the records of the court.

1379. Enforcement of penalty for non-attendance.-—When‘ever such default shall occur, it shall be the duty of the clerk of

the court (unless such judge shall file his reasons for such default
as hereinbefore provided) to certify the fact, under his official
signature and seal, to the comptroller of the State, Whose duty it
shall be to deduct from the warrants on the treasurer, thereafter
to be issued in favor of the judge making such default, the sum
of one hundred dollars as aforesaid for every such default.

1380. Adjournment of court upon non-attendance.—Whenever any judge shall not attend on the first day of any term, the

court shall stand adjourned until 12 o’clock on the second day;
and if said judge shall not then attend, it shall be the duty of the
clerk at that time to continue all causes, and adjourn the court
to such time as the’ judge may appoint, or to the next regular
term, by law established.

CHAPTER V.

ITS CLERK.

ARTICLI-31.--Bond to be given by him. Sections . . . . . . . . 1381-138::
2.—PoWer to appoint deputies. Section . . . . . . . . . 1384
3.—Place of office and residence. Sections . . . . . . . . 1385-1386
4.—His duties:

As clerk of court. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . 1387-1390
As recorder of deeds, etc. Section . . . . . . . . . 1391
As clerk of board of county commissioners. Section . 139:!
5.—Vacancy in office of. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . 139:}
6.—-His compensation. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1394-139.’:
ARTICLE. 1.

PROVISIONS RELATING TO BOND.

1381. Bond to be given.—The clerk of the circuit court shall,
before he is commissioned, give bond in a penalty which shall not
be less than one thousand dollars nor more than five thousand
dollars, to be fixed by the board of county commissioners of his
county, to the governor of the State of Florida and his successors
in office, with two or more good and sufficient sureties to be approved by the board of county commissioners and the comptroller, and to be filed with the secretary of State; which bond shall
be conditioned for the faithful discharge of the duties of his

office.

1382. Obligation of sureties.—Each surety upon such bond
may bind himself for a specified sum and the aggregate amount

for which the sureties shall bind themselves shall not be less than
the penalty of the bond.

1383. Justification of snreties.—Each surety upon such bond
shall make affidavit that he is a resident of the county for which

the clerk is to be commissioned, and that he has sufiicient visible
property therein unincumbered and not exempt from sale under
legal process to make good his bond.

ARTICLE 2.

DEPUTY CLERKS.

1384. Power of clerk to appoint deputies.~The said clerk
may appoint a deputy or deputies for whose acts he shall be liable, and the said deputies shall have and exercise the same powers as the clerks themselves.

ARTICLE 3.

PLACE OF OFFICE AND RESIDENCE.

1385. Place of office.-—-He shall keep his office at the county
seat of the county.

1386. Place of residence.—He or a deputy shall reside at the
county seat, or within two miles thereof.

ARTICLE 4.

HIS DUTIES AS CLERK OF CIRCUIT COURT.

1387. To make reports to the comptro1ler.—-He shall,
within twenty days after the end of each term of the circuit

court, forward to the comptroller a full abstract of all fines, fees,
costs, forfeitures or other monies adjudged to or rendered in favor
of the State of Florida at such term, stating in such report the
name of the person against whom the same is adjudged, and in
what capacity, on what account, the amount so adjudged, the process or order of court issued to enforce payment, and the name of
the officer into whose hands the process is placed, and such remarks
as may be necessary to inform the comptroller of the exact
amount to be collected and paid over to the State treasurer.

1388. To issue process on State judgments.—He ‘shall, immediately after the rendition of any such judgment as aforesaid,

issue and place in the hands of the sheriff a capias, or other
proper process, for the collection of the amount so adjudged or
rendered.

If he shall fail to perform the duties imposed upon him as
above, he shall be subject to a fine of twenty ($20) dollars, to be
recovered upon motion’ before the circuit court in the county
where he shall reside, after ten days’ notice of such motion.

TO KEEP PAPERS AND RECORDS.

1389. To keep papers.-—-He shall keep all papers filed in
his office, with the utmost care and security, arranged in appropriate files (endorsing upon each the time when the same was
lilcd), and all the pleadings in such cause shall be attached
together with tape or ribbon, and kept distinct from other papers
in the cause; and papers of different kinds shall not be mixed
up and folded loosely together, but each description of papers
shall be kept on file with other papers of the same class, and he
shall not permit ‘any attorney, or other person, to take papers
once filed, out of the office of the clerk without leave of the court.

1390. To keep records, and dockets.-—He shall keep:
MINUTE BOOKS, in which he shall keep regular and fair minutes of all the proceedings of the circuit court and of the judge,
in term or vacation, which shall be signed by the judge before
the adjournment of each term.

Judge must sign minutes.—McClerkin v. State, 20 Fla., 879; judge may keep
minutes, swear witnesses, etc.—Ib.

E A PROGRESS DOCKET, in which he shall note the filing by each
party to any cause at common law or in equity, of any appearance or pleading therein, and of any step taken,in the clerk ’s
office in connection with said cause, such noting to be at the time
of such filing, and of taking such step.

at A DEFAULT DOCKET, in which shall be entered in full all dcfaults and final judgments by default taken in his office.

A JUDGMENT AND EXECUTION DOCKET, in which respectively
he shall index all judgments rendered in term time or vacation,
and all executions issued thereon, stating therein thenames of
the parties, the amount of judgment and costs, and the date of
rendition of the same, the page of the record upon which it shall
have been entered, and the date of the issuance of execution.

A CHANCERY ORDER BOOK, in which shall be entered all orders
taken in chancery, except those required to be signed by the
judge exclusively which shall be entered upon the minutes.

A TRIAL DOCKET, which shall be kept in court durin all
terms thereof while in session, upon which shall be entere , before each term of court:

All cases of law triable at that term.

All cases of claims to property and alleged illegality of seizures under execution.

All cases in equity pending.

All Writs of error, appeals and certioraxris from lower courts
pending.

All criminal cases.

One copy of such trial docket shall be made up for the court,
and one for the members of the bar.

A SUBPCENA DOCKET, in which he shall enter the name of each
witness in each cause subpoenaed with the date of the issuance of
the subpcnna.

A MOTION DOCKET, upon which shall be entered, by attorneys,
all motions to be submitted to the court.

A JUDGMENT ASSIGNMENT AND SATISFACTION RECORD, in which
shall be entered at length all assignments and satisfactions of
judgments, decrees or orders, rendered, or of record, in said court.
No assignment or satisfaction shall be entered elsewhere than in
said book, and any assignment or satisfaction shall, to entitle it to
record, be in writing and duly acknowledged in the manner provided for the acknowledgment of deeds. He shall enter a note of
the satisfaction, on the margin of the record of the judgment,
decree or order. No satisfaction by any alleged assignee of a

judgment shall be entered until an assignment as hereinbefore
provided shall have been produced to the clerk and entered.

A RECORD OF FOREIGN JUDGMENT8, in whjph he shall enter all
transcripts of judgments in other counties ‘of the State, and of
judgments of county courts, county judges and justice of the
peace courts.

A L1s PENDENS DOCKET, in which shall be recorded all notices
of his pendens.

INDEXES, alphabetical, direct and inverse, to all of the foregoing books.

Such records shall always be open to the public, under the
supervision of the clerk, for the purpose of inspection thereof and
of making extracts therefrom, but the clerk shall not be required
to perform any service in connection with such inspection or
making of extracts without payment of the compensation fixed
by law.

HIS DUTIES AS RECORDER OF DEEDS, ETC.

1391. Record books to be kept.—He shall be, in the county
of which he is clerk, the recorder of deeds and of all other
papers not pertaining to the circuit court which he may be required by law to record.

For the purpose of such recording he shall keep:

A RECORD OF DEEDS, in which he shall record all deeds and
all leases of land and all powers of attorney to execute any of
such instruments, and all agreements relating to the conveyance
of land which may be in form entitled to record.

A RECORD OF MORTGAGES, in which he shall record all mortgages or real or personal property, and powers of attorney embracing a power to execute mortgages which‘ may be in form
entitled to record.

A RECORD OF LIENS, in which he shall record all statutory
liens required or permitted to be recorded.

A MORTGAGE AND LIEN ASSIGNMENT BOOK, in which shall be
recorded all assignments of mortgages or statutory liens presented to him for record. No assignment shall be entered elsewhere than in such book, and any assignment shall, to entitle it
to record, be in writing and duly acknowledged in the manner
provided for the acknowledgment of deeds. He shall enter a note
of the assignment upon the margin of the record of the mortgage
or lien.

A MORTGAGE AND LIEN SATISFACTION BOOK, in which shall
be recorded satisfaction of mortgages and liens. No such satisfaction shall be entered elsewhere than in such book, and any
satisfaction, to entitle it to record, shall be in writing and duly
acknowledged in the manner provided for the acknowledgment
of deeds. No satisfaction by any alleged assignee of a mortgage
or lien debt shall be entered until an assignment, as hereinbefore provided, shall have been presented to the clerk and entered. He shall enter a note of the satisfaction on the margin of
the record of the mortgage or lien.

AN INCORPORATION BOOK, in which he shall record all articles
-of incorporation required by law to be recorded.

INDEXES, alphabetical, direct and inverse, to all the foregoing
books. '

Such records shall be always open to the public, under the
supervision of the clerk, for the purpose of inspection thereof, and
of making extracts therefrom; but the clerk shall not be required
to perform any service in connection with such inspection or
making of extracts without payment of the compensation fixed
by law.

HIS DUTIES AS CLERK OF THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.

1392. Duties dedned.—-He shall be clerk of the board of
county commissioners.

ARTICLE 5.

VACANCY IN OFEICE OF CLERK.

1393, Clerk ad interim.—In the case of a vacancy occurring
in the office of a clerk of the circuit court by death, resignation,
or other cause, it shall be the duty of the judge of that court to
appoint a clerk ad vlnterim, who shall assume all the responsibilities, perform all the duties, and receive the same compensation for
the time being as if he had been duly appointed to fill the office;
and he shall give such bond and security for the faithful performance of his duties as is prescribed by sections 1381 to 1383.

ARTICLE 6.

HIS COMPENSATION.

1394. As clerk and recorder.——His compensation as clerk
and recorder shall be entirely by fees, and shall be as follows:

Arraignment of prisoner.. . . . . . . . . . . . . .$O 10
Appearance of defendant, entering . . . . . . . . . . . 08
Attachment, issuing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Attachment for witnesses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Bond, approving. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Capias, issuing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
C'ertim~a'mI,issuing................. 75
Commission to take testimony, issuing . . . . . . . . . 50
Commissioners, instructions to, issuing . . . . . . . . . 40
Copying any record or paper, first 100 Words . . . . . . 20

Each additional 100 Words, and fraction thereof . . . 10
Costs, taxing . . . . . . . . . . . . 15

Deed, taking acknovvleldglment of  . . . . . . . . . . 50

Docketing cases in bench and bar dockets at each term,
each...... . . . .  08

Dower, taking relinquishment of . . . . . . . . . . . 50

Entering other matters required, in the records of court
(except as herein otherwise provided) for the first 100

Wordsorless.................. 20
For each additional 100 words or less . . . I . . . 10
 fac1Ias,issuing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ., . 75
Filing any paper required to be filed . . . . .  . . 05
Fines and forfeitures, reports of to comptroller . . . . . 40
Garnishment, issuing. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Grand jury, calling and swearing. . . . . . . . . . . 50
Recordingof . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Habere facias possessionem, issuing . . . . . . . . . . . 75
Interest, calculating, and assessing damages . . . . . . 25
Injunction, issuing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 00
Jurors, report of to comptroller . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Jurors, certificatesto each . . . . . . . . . . . . . ., 05
Jury, petit, calling, swearing and recording . . 30

Moneys, receiving into registry, and paying out,.first.$50(.),

percent..................... 01
Each subsequent $100, per cent. . . . . . . . . . _O§
Oath, administering . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 06
Progress docket, entry in . . '. . . . . . . . . . . . O8
Recording any paper, first 100 words or less . . . . . . 25
Each additional 100 words or fraction thereof . . . 10
Scire facias, issuing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
Seal, affixing to any paper other than those herein specifically inentioned . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Searches of one year’s standing or less . . . . . . . . . 10
Of more than one year’s standing . . . . . . . . . 15
Subpoena in chancery, issuing . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
Subpoena for Witnesses, issuing . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Docketing.................... O8
Summons ad res., issuing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Vem'refacias,issuing.......... 50
Verdict of jury, recording . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Witnesses, certificate to each . . . . . . . . 05

Writing any paper other than herein specifically mentioned,
same as for copying.

1395. As clerk board county commissioners.—His compensation as clerk of the board of county commissioners shall be

fixed by the board of county commissioners.

CHAPTER VI.

ITS SHERIFF.

.|

To be executive officer of county. Section . . . . . . . . . 1396
Compensation for execution of prisoner. Section . . . . . . 1397
To purchase articles for the court. Section . . . . . . . . . 1398.

1396. To be executive oiiicer of county.—The sheriff of the
county shall be the executive officer of the circuit court of the
county.

1397. Oompensa.tion.—For the services in and about the
execution of the death sentence upon any prisoner, he shall
receive compensation as follows: Gallows, erection of, not exceeding actual cost, fifteen dollars; prisoner, hanging of, ten
dollars.

1398. To purchase necessary articles for the court.——The
judge of the circuit court, at each term thereof, shall make a
written requisition upon the sheriff attending upon said court
for such stationery or other articles as he may deem necessary
for the use of the court, and the sheriff shall procure the same,
and in no other. way shall the sheriff or other officer of the court
be authorized to purchase articles at the expense of the State;
the said requisition shall be a sufficient voucher to sustain the
claim of any person furnishing articles as aforesaid, against the
State.

CHAPTER VII.

ITS STENOGRAPH ER.

1399. Appointment and compensation of.——Whenever in any
cause pending in the circuit courts of this State, the attorneys representing the plaintifff and defendant shall apply to the judge of
such court and state such facts as will convince the judge that the
employment of a stenographer will expedite said trial and save
expense to the State, it shall be the duty" of the judge to grant an
order authorizing the employment of a stenographer, whose salary
shall not exceed five dollars per day, and twelve and a half cents
per hundred Words transcribed into long hand by him, and mileage at the rate of ten cents per mile in going to and returning
from said court to his place of residence, which shall be paid from
the treasury of the State upon the certificate of the clerk of said
court.

CHAPTER VIII.

SEAL OF THE CIRCUIT COURT.

1400. Procurement, etc.——The attorney-general shall devise
suitable seals for the circuit courts in each county not now provided for, and shall deposit in the office of the secretary of State
and of the clerk of the supreme court an impression and description thereof, certified by him. The cost and expense of procuring
such seal shall be paid by the State treasurer after audit and

‘allowance by the comptroller upon certificate of the attorney-gem

eral, and the cost of the seal for each county shall be repaid to
the treasurer by such county.

He shall in like manner procure new seals to replace those
which may be. lost or destroyed. In case of the loss or destruction of such seals, the private seal of the clerk shall suliice until
an'official seal be provided.

CHAPTER IX.

ITS RECORDS.

(See sections 1390 and 1391.)

A1z'rICLI«:§_1.-—Records of, from circuit courts to be. Sections . 1401, 1402

2.—From' territorial superior courts to be. Section 1403
3.—From county courts to be. Sections . . . . . . 1404-1406
ARTICLE 1.

RECORDS OF‘, PROM CIRCUIT COURTS, TO BE.

H61. Actions and proceedings.—A.ll civil actions and proceedings in the circuit courts, either at law or in equity, commenced before July 28, 1868, may be prosecuted and continued
to final judgment, order, decree, or determination in the circuit
courts established under the Constitution of 1868 in the respective counties, Where the same may have been commenced, and be
executed and enforced in the same manner as suits commenced
in the circuit courts as constituted under the Constitution of
1868, and subject to the change of venue, appeal, writ of error,
and other remedial process and proceedings according to the laws
regulating the subject matter.

1402. Judgments, decrees, orders, etc.~A1l the records,
judgments, orders and decrees of the several circuit courts in the

respective counties, made and entered before July 28, 1868, shall

be taken and held to be the records, judgments, orders and de-‘

crees of the circuit courts as ‘established in said counties July 28,
1868, and may be amended and enforced according to law and

the practice of said courts.

ARTICLE 2.

RECORDS OF, FROM TERRITORIAL SUPERIOR COURTS, TO BE.

1403. Such records described.—-The files, rolls and books of
record of the superior courts of the several districts of the territory of Florida remaining in the clerk’s offices of the‘ respective
counties, so far as the same, by the concurrence of the congress
of the United States and the legislature of this State, may relate
to matters of appropriate State authority and jurisdiction, are
placed in the custody and under the control of the circuit courts
of this State in the respective counties thereof, where the said
superior courts were held and the records kept, and shall be
deemed, held and taken’ to be. files, rolls and records of the said
circuit courts ; and the said circuit courts may lawfully have and
exercise such judicial cognizance and power over them as the
said courts may lawfully have and exercise over their own files,
rolls and records.

ARTICLE 3.

RECORDS OF, FROM LATE COUNTY COURTS, TO BE.

1404. Proceedings in civil a.ctions.—All civil actions pending in county courts of the State of Florida, on the fourth day of

May, 1875, where the amount sued upon exceeds the sum of one
hundred dollars, are transferred to the circuit courts of the respective counties, and the clerks of the courts are directed to verify
and certify the papers in such cases to the circuit courts, and to
place the same upon their dockets. The defendants in all such
actions shall be duly notified to appear and plead, and such
pleadings shall be conducted upon the principles and according
to the rules governing the court in which said actions were begun.

1405. Judgments.-—All judgments obtained in the county
courts previous to the said fourth day of May, 1875, shall be certified and transferred to the circuit courts, and said courts shall
proceed therein as though said actions and proceedings had,been
commenced in said circuit courts.

14_O6. Costs.-—-All costs in actions mentioned in the two preceding paragraphs, incurred by the transfer, shall follow the
action. '

CHAPTER X.

CHANCERY JURISDICTION AND PROCEDURE OF THE CIRCUIT COURT.

ARTICLE 1.—Its powers in vacation. Section . . . . . . . . . . 1407

2.—Locality of actions. Section. .° . . . . . . . . . . 1408

3.—Its process. Sections. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1409-1413

4.—Its pleadings. Sections . . . . . . . .' . . . . . . 1414-1424

5.—Its practice. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1425,1426

6.—-Its evidence. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427, 1428

7.-Masters in chancery. Sections . . . . . . . . . . 1429-1443

8.—Decrees in chancery. Sections . . . . . . . . . . 1444-1451

9.—Petitions for rehearing. Sections . . . . . . . . . 1452-1454

10.—Appea1s in. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1455-1402
PROCEEDINGS IN PA a'r1c1:1..u: mans.
11.—Injunct.ions. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1463-1472
12.—Ne ereat. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1473-1476
STATFTORY moi-mnxxcs IN v1u.\'cr:m'.
13.—Divorce and alimony. Sections . . . . . . . . . .; 1477-1489
14.—Partition. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1490-1498
15.-—Equitable garnishment. Section . . . . . . . . . 1499
16.—Avoidance of multiplicity of suits in land matters.

Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1500
17.—-‘Removal of disability of minors. Sections . . . . . 1501-1504
18.—Remova1 of disability of married women. Sections . 1505-1509
19.—Enfo1-cement of liens. Section . . . . . . . . . . I510

ARTICLE 1.

POWER OF C1IA.\'(‘-ERY COURTS IN VAC.~\TI().\'.

1407. Action to be as effective as if in term.—The circuit
courts, sitting in chancery, shall always be open for the issuing and
return of process, making, hearing, and deciding motions, presenting, arguing and deciding upon petitions, granting injunctions
and passing interlocutory and final decrees and orders. And all
action in said matters in vacation shall have the same force and
effect as if done in term time.

ARTICLE 2.

LOCALITY OF ACTIONS IN CIIANCERY.

1408. Provision at law to govern.-—A1l provisions of law
governing locality of actions at law shall, when they can be made

applicable, govern those in chancery.

ARTICLE 3.

l’l-{()(‘['2S.‘-1‘, AND SF.R\'I('E THEREOF, IN CHANCERY.

Process. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1409-1411
Service of process. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1412,1413

PROCESS IN CHANCERY.

1409. When to issue.- 1

1. IN FIRST INSTANC.E.——NO subpoena in chancery shall issue
until a bill of complaint shall have been filed in the clerk’s
office.

2. ALIAS.——If process shall not be returned, or shall be returned unexecuted, the clerk of the court from which it issued
shall issue a similar process, if the same shall be required by the
party at whose instance it was originally issued.

W'hen chancery suit is pending.-—Thebaut v. Canova, 11 Fla., 143. Effect of
pendency.—Ib.

1410. When returnable.-—It shall be returnable to the rule
day, a.nd within the time provided for writs of summons at law.

1411. Form of.1. FORM PR1:scR1B'ED.——The form of subpoena to answer, shall
be as follows:

The State of Florida to. . . . . . . . . . . Greeting:

You are hereby commanded and strictly enjoined, that laying
all other business aside, and notwithstanding any excuse, you personally be and appear before the judge of our court for the county
of...........,onthe...dayof.._.....
at the court-house of said county, to answer to a bill of complaint
exhibited against you in our said court by . . . . . . . . ,
and to do further, and receive what our said court shall have
considered in that behalf; and this you are not to omit, under a
penalty of $500. Witness the honorable . . . . . . . . . .
judge ofsaid court, the . . . .—day of. . . . . . . . . .,in
the year of . .

A. B.
2. NUMBER or DEFENDANTS TO BE INCLUDED 1N.—The names

of all defendants, however numerous, may be included in one
subpoena.

SERVICE AND RETURN OF PROCESS IN CHANCERY.

1412. Personal service.1. SERVICE.——PeI‘SOnal service of process, and of orders and
decrees in chancery, to be made upon parties to be served, natural
or corporate, shall be governed by the provisions of law applicable to the service of a writ of summons ad rcspondendum. The
copy served shall have endorsed thereon the name of the court
from which the subpama issued, the title of the cause, the words
“copy of subpa=na,” and the name of the complainant's solicitor_

2. RETURN OF OFFICER.-—The return upon process in chancery of the officer executing the same shall be governed by the
provisions of law applicable to the return upon a writ of summons ad respondendum. When service of process is made by any
person other than the sworn officer of the court whence it issued,
affidavit of the time and manner of the service shall be made
and returned with the original subpoena.

Return by deputy sheriff.—-Johnson v. Johnson, 23 Fla., 413.

1413. Constructive service.1. OBTAINING ORDER FOR PUBLICATION.-—WlleneVer the com-.

plainant or his agent or attorney shall state in a sworn bill or

‘affidavit, duly filed, the belief of the afiiant that the defendant

is a resident of a state or country other than this State, specifying as particularly as may be known to afiiant such residence, or
that his residence is unknown, or that, if a resident, he has been
absent more than sixty days next preceding the application for
the order of publication, and that there is no person in the State
the service of a subpoena upon whom would bind such defendant, or that he conceals himself so that process cannot be
served upon him, and that he is twenty-one years of age, or that
his age is unknown, the judge or clerk of the court in which such
bill shall have been filed shall make an order against the defendant requiring him to appear to the bill upon a rule day to
be fixed by the order, not less than thirty nor more than fifty
days from the time of filing the bill, if he be stated therein to
be a resident of the United States; and not less than fifty nor

~more than eighty days if he be stated to be a non-resident of the

United States, or if his residence be stated to be unknown.

2. PUBLICATION OF ORDER.——The clerk shall have all orders
of publication against an absent defendant, whether made by the
judge or himself, published, with as little delay as may be, in such
newspaper as may be designated in the order, once a week for
four consecutive Weeks, if the defendant be stated to be a resident
of the United States, and once each week for eight consecutive
weeks if he be stated to be a non-resident of the United States or
if his residence be stated to be unknown; he shall also within
twenty days of the making of the order post a copy of the said
order at the door of the court-house of the county, and send by
mail a copy to the defendant if his residence be shown by the

bill or affidavit.

_._m_j.:.:._

ARTICLE 4.

PLEADINGB IN CH ANCERY.

The bill. Sections. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1414,1416

The answer. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1416,1417

Pleas and demurrers. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1418-1421

Replicationa Sections. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1422-1424
THE BILL.

1414. Amendment of,—The complainant may, as of course,
amend his bill at any time before answer, plea or demurrer filed,
and without costs; but if the’ defendant’s appearance be entered,
and the defendant has procured a copy of the bill, the complainant shall furnish the defendant with a certified copy of the
amendment gratis. No amendment in a matter of substance shall
be allowed as of course to any bill which has been sworn to.

Effect of amendment.- —Howard v. P. & A. R. R. Co.—24 Fla., 560. When
amendment not rmitted.-—Smith v. Smith, 18 Ij‘la., 789. Amended bill may be
demurred to, alt ough demurrer to bill before amendment overruled.-—Bowes v.
Hoeg, 15 Fla., 403. In case of specific performance, after publication.—Lewis v.

Yale, 4 Fla., 418.

1415. In cases of foreclosure.——In the foreclosure of any
mortgage the original mortgage or a certified copy of the same,
certified by the clerk of the circuit court of the county in which
the same shall have been recorded, shall form a part of the bill
of complaint for the foreclosure of such mortgage.

and the defendant may also in such case be examined on interrogatories and be committed until he sufiiciently answer them; or
the plaintifff may move the court to take so much of the bill as is
not answered as confessed, and may file his replication, obtain testimony and proceed to hearing in the usual manner.

Impertinence in answer and exceptions therefore.—Bush v. Adams, 22 Fla., 177.

Answers generall .—Efi"ect. of answer as evidenee.—Christy v. Burch, 225
Fla., 942; Foster v. Am ler, 124 Fla., 519 ; Gainer v. Russ, 20 Fla.. 157; Stephens
v. ()1-man, 10 Fla., 9 : (,‘arr v. Thomas, 18 Fla., 736; (‘arter v. Bennett, 6 Fla., 214;
\Vhite v. \Valker, 5 Fla., 479; Urman v. Barnard, 5 Fla., 5238. Joint answer of
husband and wife as evidence against the wife.—Lewis v. Yale, 4 F la., 418.
Amendment of answer; when permissible and when not.—Hart V. Sanderson’s
admr., 18 Fla.. 103. \Vhat answer of rm culjmlicala should eontain.—Marvin v.
Hampton, 18 Fla., 131. Affirmative relief not granted upon answer.—Wooten v.
Bellinger, 17 Fla., 289. Answer waives objection that remedy at law exists, unless court wholly incompetent to grant relief.—(i0r(lon v. Clarke, 10 F 1a., 179;
Hriliin v. Orman, 9 I-‘la.. 2'2.

PLEAS AND DEMURRERS.

1418. May he pleaded together, and with answer.—The
defendant may, at any time before the bill is taken as confessed,

or afterward with the leave of the court, demur or plead to the
whole bill or part of it, and answer the residue thereof in such
manner as is authorized by the practice of the high court of chancery in England.

Demurrers.—When general demurrer should be overruled.—El Modelo
Cigar Manufacturing Company v. Gate, 25 Fla., 886. May be good as to one defendant and not as to other.—Dzialynski v. Bank of Jacksonville, '23 F 1a., 346.
Certificate of counsel required to demurrer. Striking out demuner not certified.
\Vaivcr of certifieate.—Keen v. Jordan, 13 Fla., 327. Demurrer must not set up
matters ddwrs bill.——Southern Life Insurance Company v. Lanier, 5 F 1a., 110.
Demurrer for misjoinder of complaint must be made in linu'm>.—I b. \Vaiver bv
not demurring to supplemental bill.—Crump v. Perkins, 18 F la., 353. Court will
not notice defect in form unless «lemurred t0.~4}ordon v. Clarke, 11 F 1a., 179
Demurrer to answer unknown.——Edwards v. Drake, 15 Fla., 666.

1419. May be incorporated in the answer.-The defendant
may in all cases, instead of filing a formal plea or demurrer, insist on any special matter in his answer, and have the same benefit thereof as if he had pleaded the same matter or had demurred

to the bill. .

Practice at hearing. VVhen bill contains no equit_v.—Budd v. Gamble, 13
Fla., 265. Special matter in answer available as if pleaded.—Hollingsworth v.
Handcock, 7 Fla., 338.

1420. Complainant's dealing with.—'I‘he complainant may
set down a demurrer or plea to be argued, or he may take issue

upon the plea; if upon an issue the facts stated in the plea. be
determined for the defendant, they shall avail him as far as in
law and equity they ought to avail him.

Practice upon sustaining p1ea.—Crump v. Perkins, 18 Fla., 353.

1421. Effect of overruling.-If a plea or demurrer has been
overruled, no other plea or demurrer shall thereafter be received,

but the defendant shall answer the complainant’s bill; and if he
fail to do so before the next rule day thereafter, the same or so

much thereof as was covered by the plea or deicnurrer, may be
taken as confessed and the matter thereof be decreed accordingly.

Effect and treatment of plea in support of answer.—Hart v. Sanderaon’s~
admr., 16 Fla., 264. Such plea discussed.—Crump v. Perkins, 18 Fla., 353. Hearing on bill, plea and answer.—Hart v. Sarfderson s admr., 18 Fla., 103.

REPLICATIONS.

1422. When to be il1ed.—General replications to answers
shall be filed at the rule day next succeeding the filing of the answer. , ~

1423. Special replications to answer not allo.wed.—No special replication to an answer shall be filed but by leave of the

court or judge thereof for cause shown.

1424. Failure to reply to, or set down pleas or demurrer.
—If a complainant shall not reply to or set down for hearing any

plea or demurrer before the next rule day after the filing of the
plea or demurrer, the bill may be dismissed with costs.

Only complainant can set down.—Gary v.Mick1er, 21 Fla., 539;

ARTICLE 5.

PRACTICE IN CHANCERY.

1425. What practice to prevail.-—In the absence of provisions of the law orrules of practice of this State, the rules of practice in the courts of equity of the United States, as prescribed by
the supreme court thereof under the act of congress of the 8th of
May, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-two, shall be rules
for the practice of the courts of this State when exercising equity
jurisdiction; and when the rules of practice so directed by the supreme court do not apply, the practice of the courts shall be regulated by the practice of the high court of chancery of England.

1426. Service of notices.—All notices in chancery to be
served shall be served upon the opposite party or his solicitor, if
residing within twenty miles of the court-house in the proper
county, personally, or if residing at a greater distance, by mail.
Proof of the mailing shall be required by affidavit or certificate

from the person mailing.

ARTICLE 6.

EVIDENCE IN CHANCERY.

1427.. Taken before issue.—Testimony in chancery may be
taken at any time after the bill shall have been filed, under the

circumstances set forth in section 1123, by a commission or by

deposition befofe a justice of the peace. All the provisions of
law relating to the obtaining and execution of commissions, and
the taking of depositions before justices of the peace, at law, shall
apply to the like proceedings in chancery.

1428. Taken after issue.—Testimony to be taken after issue
shall be taken upon commission as hereinbefore provided, or before an examiner to be appointed by the court, or orally before

the court. _
Commissions may be obtained in such cases without stating

any reasons therefore other than that the case is at issue, and ma _\'
issue for the taking of testimony of resident witnesses.
Examiners when appointed may take the testimony upon Written direct and cross-interrogatories, or orally,‘ as the court may
in its order direct, or as the rules of practice of the court may

prescribe.
Oral examinations before the court shall only be had after order to that effect made by the court upon motion by either party.
The testimony shall be taken down in writing, and filed in the

cause.

Enlargement of time for taking is in discretion of court.--Tuten v. Gazen,
18 Fla., 751.

ARTICLE 7.

MASTERS IN CHANCERY.

Appointment of. Section. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1429

Oath of. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1430

General duties and powers of. Section . . . . . . . . . 1431

Process of. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1432

Bond of. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1433 .

Proceedings before. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1434-1441

Compensation of. Section. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1442

Special masters. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1443

1429. Appointment of.———Judges of the circuit courts, in their
respective circuits, may appoint ‘in writing as many general masters in chancery as such judges may find necessary, and they
shall continue in office until removed by the court. The appointment shall be recorded in the minutes of the court.

1430. Oath of.—Every person appointed such master in chancery shall, before he shall proceed to discharge any of the duties
of his said office, take the oath required of officers by the constitution and laws of this State; and such oath shall be entered at
full length on the minutes of the court by which such master is
appointed.

1431. General duties and powers of.1. DUTIES oF.——Every such master in chancery shall perform,

under the direction of the court, all the duties which, according
to the practice in chancery, appertain to the office. 2. POWERS oF.—He shall, within his respective county,
have all the powers conferred on masters in chancery by the
rules of practice prescribed by the supreme court of the United
States for the chancery courts of the United States, not inconsistent with the laws and rules of practice of this State.

He shall have power to administer all oaths and affirmations which are required by law, and to take and certify affidavits
and depositions, to issue subpoenas for witnesses whose testimony
is to‘be taken before him, and shall have the same power to compel the attendance of witnesses and to punish for contempts as is
given to justices of the peace.

1432. Process of.——Proccss issued by him shall be directed to
the sheriff or any constable of said county.

1433. Bond of.——The court may require masters in chancery
when appointed to dispose of property, real and personal, and
when appointed as receivers, and when the same is not otherwise
provided by law, to give bond and surety in such manner and
with such penalty for the payment over of all monies which may
come to their hands, and for the due performance of their duties,
as the court may direct.

Such bond shall be made payable to the State of Florida, and
shall be for the benefit of all persons affected or aggrieved by any
act or malconduct of the person required to give such bond.

l’ROCEF.I)INGS BEFORE.

1434. Presentation of matter to.—Whenever a reference of
any matter is made to a master in chan-cery to examine and report thereon, the party at whose instance or for whose benefit the
reference is made shall cause such matter to be presented to the
master for a hearing within the time limited by the court for such
hearing; and if such party shall omit so to do, the adverse party
shall be at liberty forthwith to cause proceedings to be had before the master, at the cost of the party procuring the reference.

1435. Time and place of hea.ring‘.—Upon every such referencc it shall be the duty of the master, as soon as he reasonably

can after the same is brought before him, to assign a time and
place for proceeding therein, and to give due notice thereof to
each of the parties or their counsel; and if either party shall fail
to appear at the. time and place appointed, the master shall be at
liberty to proceed at‘ purlc, or in his discretion to adjourn the examination and proceedings to a future day, giving notice to the
absent party or his counsel of such adjournment.

1436. Speeding the proceedings.—It shall be the duty of
the master to proceed with all reasonable diligence in every such

reference, and with the least practicable delay; and either party
shall be at liberty to apply to the court for an order to the master to speed the proceedings, and to make his report, and to certify to the court the reasons for any delay.

1437. Regulation of proceedings before.——The master shall
regulate all the proceedings in every hearing when not otherwise

specially instructed by the court, and administer all oaths and
affirmations, and generally do all other acts and direct all inquiries and proceedings in the matters before him which may be

necessary and proper to the justice and merits of the case and
the rights of the parties.

1438. Evidence permissible before.—All affidavits, deposii tions and documents which have been previously made, read or

used iii the court upon any proceeding in any cause or matter, or
when so directed by the court, may be used before the master.

1439. Evidence before, to be in writing.—The evidence lll

all examinations shall be taken down in writing by the master,or by some other person by his order, in his presence, and filul
with his report.

1440. Fees of witnesses before.-—The fees of witnesses before the master shall be the same as allowed in cases in the circuit court.

1441. Report of masters in chancery.—As soon as his report
is ready he shall return the same into the clerk’s office, and such
report shall be filed by the clerk and the return thereof noted on
the order book of the court.

In such report no part of any state of facts, charges, depositions, affidavits, examinations, or answers already on file in the
cause used before him shall be stated or recited ; but such state of
facts, charges, affidavits, depositions, examinations or answers shall
be identified, specified and referred to _so as to inform the court
which state of facts, charge, affidavit, deposition, examination or
answer were used by the master.

Insufiicient report of master no basis for decree.—June v. M crs, 12 F1a., 310.
So of report showing material errors on face.—White V. Wa1'er, 5 Fla., 478.
Must generally be confirmed before order can be made on it..—Grifiin v. Ornian,
9 Fla., 22. Report beyond matters referred, is nullity.—White v. Walker, 5 Fla.,
478. As is report more extensive than allegations and proof.—Ib. Erroncous on
face reviewed without exeeptions.—Ib. Mannerof stating partnership account.Mims v. Mirns, 20 Fla., 204. Of stating account between trustee and cvstui qw
tru.st.—-Merritt v. Jenkins, 17 Fla., 593.

1442. Compensation of masters in chancery.—The fees of the
master shall be as follows:

Attendance on litigated case, per day . . . . . . . . . $2 00

unlitigated case, per day . . . . . . . . 1 00

to settle litigated report, per day‘. . . . . 2 00

unlitigated report, per day . . . . 1 00

Deed or bill of sale, drawing . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 00

executing..................10()

Deposition of witness, taking, per 100 words . . . . . . 25

Exhibits, marking and numbering, each . . . . . . . . 05
Moneys (except monies arising from sales), receiving an

paying out, on first $500 . . . . . . . . 45- per cent.

Onresidue. . . . . . . . . . . . .§of1percent.

Recognizance, taking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Report upon appointment of guardian . . . . . . . . 2 50
Sale, attending and adjourning . . . . . 1 00

for making, the same fees as are allowed sheriffs.

For all other services the same fees as are prescribed for
clerks of the circuit court. When no such fees are prescribed, then he shall receive such compensation as the
judge may fix. All fees shall be taxed as part of the
costs of the cause. 4

Per diem of five dollars allowed under circumstances stated.——Chandler v.
Sherman, 16 Fla., 99.

1443. Special masters in cha.ncery.——The court may appoint
for any particular services required by it special masters in
chancery, who shall receive the same fees as general masters, and
who shall be governed by all the provisions of law governing
general masters, except that they shall not be required to make
oath and give bond as required by sections 1430 and 1433.

Misnaming him commissioner does not invalidate his act.ion.—-Mann v. Jennings, 25 Fla., 730.

ARTICLE 8.

DEGREES IN CHANCERY.

Decrees, pro confesso. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1444-1447
Generally. Sections . . . - . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1448-1451

DECREES PRO CONFESSO.

1444. When may be entered.—The defendant shall, unless
the time shall be otherwise enla.rged for cause shown by the

judge of the court upon motion for that purpose, file his plea,
demurrer or answer to the bill in the clerk’s office on the rule
day next succeeding that fixed for an entry of appearance,
whether the services shall have been personal or constructive;
in default thereof, the complainant may at his election cause the
clerk to enter an order (as of course) in the order book that the
bill be taken pro confcsso ; and thereupon the cause shall be proceeded in ex parte, and the matter of the bill may be decreed by
the court accordingly, if the same can be done Without an
answer and is proper to be decreed.

1445. Prerequisites to entry upon constructive service.The clerk, before a decree pro confesso upon_ constructive service :
shall be entered, must file with the papers a certificate that compliance with section 1413, paragraph 2, has been had, stating
particularly the manner and time of such compliance.

1446. Setting aside final decree upon decree pro confesso.
—When the bill in any cause is taken pro confesso, the court

may proceed to a decree, and such a decree rendered shall be '

absolute unless the court shall set aside the same or enlarge the
time for filing the answer for cause shown upon motion and affidavit of the defendant, made and filed within twenty days after
the entry of the final decree, and no such motion shall begranted
unless upon the payment of costs of complainant in the suit up
to that time, or such part thereof as the court shall deem reasonable, and unless the defendant shall undertake to file his answer
within such time as the court shall direct, and submit to such

other terms as the court shall direct for the purpose of speeding
the cause,

What must be shown on application.—Keil v. West, 21 Fla., 508; Stribling
v. Hart, 20 Fla., 235. Decree pro confesso may be 0 ned on motion. Section
discussed.—Ib. Action on motion to open reviewa le by an reme court-.--Ib.
Decree absolute not opened on motion.-—Marks v. Baker, 20 1a., 920. Not set
aside unless defendant vigi1ant.—Frisbee v. Timanus, 12 Fla., 300.

1447. Proceedings in lieu of decree pro confesso.——The complainant may, however, instead of causing a decree pro confesso to
be entered, if he requires any discovery or answer to enable him
to obtain a proper decree, have process of attachment against the
defendant to compel an answer, and the defendant shall not, when
arrested upon such process, be discharged therefrom unless upon
tiling his answer or otherwise complying with such order as the
court may direct as to pleading to or fully answering _the bill
Within a period to be fixed by the court, and undertaking to speed

. the cause.

DECREES GENERALLY.

1448. Signing and recording‘ of.—Decrees in equity may be
signed by the judge when pronounced and shall be recorded upon
the minutes of the court without any other enrollment. And no
process shall be issued or other proceedings had on any final decree or order until the same shall have been signed and recorded
as aforesaid.

Decree enrolled when entered.—Owens v. Love, 9 Fla., 325. Parties must
have notice of entry of decree.--Broome v. Alston, 8 Fla.,, 307.

1449. Lien of deoree.—See sections 1173 and 1174.

F1 Decree of foreclosure is not a lien. Residuary decree is.—-Scott v. Russ, 21
a., 260.

1450. Execution of money decrees.—Executions on decrees
for money shall issue as and be governed by the law relating to
executions on judgments.

1451. Effect of a decree for conveyance.—Where a decree
in chancery shall be made for a -conveyance, release, or acquittance of land, or any interest therein, and the party against whom
the said decree shall pass shall not comply therewith by the time
appointed, then such decree shall be considered and taken in all
courts of law and equity to have the same operation and effect
and to be as available as if the conveyance and release or acquittance had been executed conformably to such decree, and this
notwithstanding any disability of such parties by infancy, lunacy,
coverture or otherwise.

Decrees %enera.1ly.—(.‘~annot be attacked collaterally.-—Mann v. Jennings,
25 F1a., 736. orm of decree for money.—May v. May, 19 F1a., 373.

ARTICLE 9.

PETITIONS FOR REHEARING.

1452. Form and contents of.—Every petition for a rehear-ing shall contain the special matter or cause on which such a rehearing is applied for, and the facts therein stated, if not appearing
on the face of the proceedings, shall be verified by the oath of the
party or some other credible person.

1453. Presentation of, as a supersedeas.——The presentation
ofa petition for a rehearing presented within thirty days from

the time of pronouncing the decree, shall stay all proceedings
thereon for thirty days from such presentation, but for no longer
unless bond be given by the petitioner with good and sufficient
sureties, as in cases of appeal, conditioned for the payment of all
damages and costs which may accrue by such delay, the penalty
of which shall be fixed by the judge of the court to whom said
petition for rehearing may be presented. When such bond shall
have been given, all proceeding shall be stayed until the petition
shall have been heard and determined.

1454. Granting of rehearing, as a supersedeas.—After a re’
hearing shall have been granted, no further or other proceedings

shall be had or taken on the decree pronounced on the original
hearing of the cause.

ARTICLE 10. ,

APPEAIB IN CHANCERY.

Matters of right. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1455

From final decrees. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1456

From interlocutory decrees. Section . . . . . . . . . 1457

As superscdeas. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1458, 1459

Notice of appeal. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1460

Citation. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1461

Certain general provisions. Section . . . . . . . . . 1462

1455. Matters of right.—Appeals in chancery shall be matters of right.

1456. Appeals from final Decrees.—Any party may appeal
from a final decree in chancery at any time within two years

from the. entry thereof.

Reference to master is not final decree.—G riffin v. Orman, 9 Fla., 22; Owens
v. Love, 9 Fla., 325.

1457. From interlocutory decrees.~Appeals may be taken
and prosecuted from any interlocutory order, decision, judgment
or decree of the circuit courts of this State, when sitting as courts
of equity; but the conferring of the right shall not be construed
so as to deprive either party from deferring and postponing the
entry of his appeal until after the entry of the final decree, or
end of the cause as prescribed by law ; nor shall such postponement of the appeal be decreed, held or taken to be an acquiescence
in the propriety of any interlocutory order or decree made in the
progress of the cause, or any waiver of any error therein. Such
appeal may be taken within two years after the entry of the order or decree appealed from.

Certain matters reviewable at instance of appellee.—O’Neill v. Percival, 253
Fla., 118. Lies from order granting: injunction and appointing receiver.—Cunningham v. Tucker, 14 Fla., 249. Does not lie from consent dccretal order.Wlnte v. Walker, 5 F 1a., 478. Instance of interlocutory decrec.—Bellamy v. Bellamy, 4 F 1a., 242.

1458. Appeal as a supe_rsedeas.—

1. SUPERSEDEAS ON APPEALS FROM FINAL DEGREES.-NO appeal from a final decree shall operate as a superscdeas unless the
said appeal be taken within the time fixed by law for taking a
writ of error operating, as of course, as a supersedeas or if not
taken within that time, unless one of the judges of the supreme
court, by order, direct the said appeal to operate as a supcrsedeas.
In any event bond and security shall be given as provided in
cases of writs of error.

2. SUPERSEDEAS 0}: APPEAL FROM INTERLOCUTORY ORDERS,
ETC.——NO appeal from any interlocutory order, decision, judgment or decree of a circuit court sitting as a court of equity shall
operate as a supersedeas unless the judge of the circuit court, or
a justice of the supreme court, on inspection of the record, shall
think fit to order and direct a stay of proceedings. No appeal so
allowed shall operate as a supersedeas except on the conditions
prescribed by law in cases of appeals from final decrees.

To what extent inspection required.—Wil1iams v. Hilton, 25 Fla., 108.

Effect of suprrsedeas on preliminary injunction and appointment of receiver.State v. Johnson, 13 Fla., 33.

Bond is not necessary to perfect appeal.—Kilbee v. Myrick, 12 Fla., 416’
Smith v. Curtis, 19 Fla., 786; Bauknight v. Sloan, 17 Fla., 821. Nor is bond for
costs.—Darden v. Lines, 2 Fla., 569. Sufficiency of amount and condition of
bond.—Kilbee v. Myriek, 12 Fla., 416. Bond must identify decree.—Jackson V.
Relf, 24 Fla., 198. But an amended bond may be filed.—Ib.

1"‘ 1459. Supersedeas on appeals from decrees, etc., relating to
administrators.—N o appeal from any order, judgment or decree

Of any court of chancery, probate or other court in this State,
appointing or removing executors, administrators or other personal representatives, or affirming such order, judgment or decree,
shall operate as a supersedcas, or have the effect of placing or
keeping the estate of any deceased person in the possesion of the
party appealing, unless such party enter into bond with two
sufiicient sureties, to be approved by the judge of the court, payable to the governor of the State for the benefit of all concerned,
in a sum at, least equal to the value of such estate, conditioned
for the payment of all costs and damages that may accrue to
all persons whomsoever. by reason of such appeal if the same
should not be prosecuted with success.

1460.‘ Notice of appeal.—Notice of appeals in chancery may
be given orally in open court at the time when the decree is rendered (in which case such notice shall be entered on the minutes)
or thereafter in vacation by filing in the clerk’s office a written
notice.

No particular form required.—Bauknight v. Sloan, 17 Fla., 281.

1461. Citation, issuance and service of.——If the notice be given
in open court, no further notice shall be required; but if it be
given in vacation, the clerk of the circuit court shall issue to the
appellee a citation, which shall be returnable, and shall be served
in like manner and time as writs of sci. fa. ad (md. errores.

\Vhen a peal taken during term of su reme court returnable.-—\Vil1iams v.
Hilton. 25 F a., 608. Citation not waived )y agreement of parties to use same
transcript.—Pontier v. Jctfares, 25 Fla., 844. Not properly tested or served,

illegal.—Joost V. Elliott, 20 Fla., 924. Defendant against whom decree pro confesm has passed, when entitled to citation upon appeal by complainant.--Megin

'v. Filor, 4 Fla., 203. How tested. Test amendable.--Guarantee Trust etc. Co. v.

Buddington, 223 Fla., 514; Joost V. Elliott, 20 Fla., 9224. \Vho should be named
in. How served on person out of State. Time for issuance and service of new,
given.—(iuarantee Trust, etc., Co. v. Buddington, 23 Fla., 514.

1462. Application to appeals in chancery, of certain pro.

visions relating to writs of error.——The provisions of law relating to writs of error governing the filing of transcripts of record

and proceedings thereon, and filing assignments of errors, the
duty of the appellate court in examining the record and giving
judgment, in causing execution of its decrees and in quashing
writs of error, shall be applicable to appeals in chancery.

DECISIONS (NOT ELSEWHERE NOTED) UPON APPELLATE PROCEEDINGS IN CHANCERY.

When appeal 1ies.—From final decree u n decree pro confesso.—Trustees3
etc. v. J. P. 6: M. R. R. Co., 16 Fla., 708; ‘reeman v. Timanus, 12 Fla., 393’
Hart v. Stribling, 21 Fla., 136. What open upon such appeal.—-Freeman v'
Timanus, 12 Fla., 393.

When appeal does not 1ie.—-From pro forma decree.-—Darden v. Lines, 2

£“ll:, 569. From fine for contempt for violating injunction.-Caro v. Maxwell, 20
., I7.

Parties to appeal.-—Receiver when his compensation is affected is proper
party.--Herndon v. Hurter, 19 Fla., 397. Parties may be made by amendment
in supreme court.-'-Whitlock v. Willard, 18 Fla., 156. A party not served with

rocess below may appeal.-—State v. J. P. & M. R. R. Co., 15 F la., 20]. Ap al

one of several parties-summons and severance.--Whitlor-k v. Willarr , 18

1a., 156. An appeal not naming parties is insufficient.—Alstor v. Rawles, 13
Fla., 110. Separate a ipeals should be taken from orders on distinct rules against
sheriff.——Moselev v. S epard, 1 Fla., 156. Joint and several appeals.-—Guarantee
Trust Co. v. Buddington, 23 Fla., 514.

Dismissal of appeal.—For failure to file petition of appeal.—Hu1l v. Westcott, I7 Fla., 280.

Presumptions in favor of. court beloW.—Stephens v. Bradle , 24 Fla., 2013
Livingston v. Cooper, 22 1" la., 2812; Brown v. Harley, 2 Fla., 159. ‘hat all material evidence is in the record.—Hyer’s extrs. v. Caro’s extx.. 17 Fla., 332.

F1 O7ertiorari upon suggestion of dim1nution.—Caro v. Pensacola City Co., 19
a., 66.

What appellate court will consider.—Only orders appearing on the
record.—Freeman v. Timanns 12 Fla., 393, Appeal opens what case.—Foster v.
Ambler, 24 Fla., 519; Fairchild v. Knight, 18 1« la., 770; State v. J. P. & M. R. R.
Co., 15 Fla., 201 ; Griffin v. Orman, 9 Fla., 22; So. Life Ins. Co. v. Cole, 4 Fla.,
359 ; Lc-Baron v. Fauntleroy, 2 Fla., 276. In case commenced before the code.code.——H_ver’s extrs. v. Caro’s extx., 17 Fla., 3322. On appeal from final decree,

upon decree pro confesso.—Freeman v. Timanus, 12 Fla., 393.

Reversals. When decree reversed.—When proper parties absent.—Greeley v. Hendricks, 23 Fla., 336. Upon decree pro confesso, when defendant not in
default.—Eldridge v. Wightinan, 20 Fla., 687. Prejudicial to both sides, reversed upon grounds not a.~asigned.—-Coy v. Downie, 14 Fla.. 544. For further
evidence.—Fuller v. Fuller, 23 Fla., 2236. Because entered without rocess, notice, evidence hearing or decree pro confesso.—State v. J. P. & M. . R. Co., 15
Fla., 201. When not reversed.—-When irreconcilabl conflictin r t.estimonv.—
Lewter v. Price, 25 Fla., 574; Eppinger v. Canepa, 20 la. 262. n case of injunction, unless error clear.—McKinne v. Dickinson, 24 Fla., 366. Forerror in
interlocutory decree not carried into final decree.-Dzialynski v. Bank, 23 Fla.
347; Ballard v. Eckmann, 20 Fla., 661. Upon grounds waived or not insisted
upon in the court be1ow.—Ep]l>jnger v. Canepa, 20 Fla., 262; Sanderson v. Sanderson’s admin, 20 Fla., 292 ; _ver’s extrs. v. Caro’s extx., 17 Fla., 332. For immaterial error.—Mathews v. Lindsey, 20 Fla., 962.

Form of appea1.—Writ of error cannot take place of.—County Commission(31: v. Bryson, 13 F 1a., 286; Bradford v. Marvin, 2 Fla., 101; Harris v. Cole, 2

, 400.

Extension of time for appeal.——Cannot be gained by appeal from motion
to set aside decree.—Fitzpatrick v. Turner, 14 Fla., 382.

PROCEEDINGS IN PARTICULAR CASES.‘

Injunctions: Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1463-1472
No exact. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1473-1476

INJUNCTIONS.

1463. Injunction to issue only after bill i1led.—No Writ of
injunction shall be granted until a bill praying therefore shall

have been filed, except in the special cases in which, and for the
special causes for which, such writs are authorized in the courts
of the United States exercising equity jurisdiction.

Filing with judge sufficient.—Fairchild v. Knight, 18 Fla., 770. Should not
issue  bill contains prayer.—Thompson v. Maxwell, 16 Fla., 773. Exception.— .

1464. Injunctions to stay proceedings at law.—No writ of
injunction to stay proceedings at law sha 1 issue except on motion

to the court, and reasonable notice of such motion previously
served on the opposite party or his attorney, nor unless the party
applying therefore shall have previously paid all the costs of the
suit at law, and shall have entered into a bond with two or more
sufficient sureties in a’ sum to be fixed by the court, payable to
the plaintifff in the action at law and conditioned, if the application be to stay the proceedings before verdict or inquest of damages, to pay to the said plaintifff all damages, losses, expenses and
charges which he may have sustained or have been put to by
reason of the issuing of the said injunction if the injunction shall
be dissolved, or the bill upon which it was granted be dismissed ;
or it’ the application be to stay the proceedings after verdict or
inquest of damages to pay the debt, interest enjoined and such
damages as may be occasioned by the wrongful issuing of said injunction if the said injunction shall be dissolved, or the bill upon
‘which it may be granted be dismissed.

What is not injunction to stay proceedings at law.—Lewter v. Hower, 18
Fla., 872. Should not issue without bond, except when.—Thompson v. Maxwell, 16 Fla., 773.

1465. Injunction without bond.—In all suits in equity where
summary process by injunction or otherwise shall be prayed, and

the bill justifies such process, and affidavit shall be made of the
truth of the statements of the bill, and that the complainant is
unable to give bond of indemnity or other security, the chancellor shall receive from both parties evidence of the truth or falsity
of the statements of the bill and of the accompanying affidavit,
and if they shall appear to be true, shall grant such process without requiring such security.

Evidence required.—-Swepson v. Call, 13 Fla., 337.

1466. Evidence upon applications for, or to dissolve injunctions.—Upon an application for an injunction or other summary

order, or upon motion to dissolve the same, either party thereto
shall have the right to introduce evidence, and the chancellor
shall grant, dissolve or continue the order, or may require security
according to the weight of the evidence.

Effect of this section.——Sullivan v. Moreno, 19 Fla., 200. Effect. of filing answer upon such applicat.ion.—1b.

1467. Motion to dissolve injunction.—The defendant, after
injunction granted, may either before or after answer filed, on due

notice being previously given to the opposite party or his solicitor,

ARTICLE 2.

INJUXCFIONS IN PARTICULAR CASES.

Against levy of execution issued against another than the complain_ant. Section . . . : . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1468
Against destruction of timber. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1469
Injunctions in exemption matters. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . 1470
Against. violation of board of health rules. Section . . . . . . . . 1471
Against removal of mortgaged personal property. Section . . . . . 1472

1468. Against levy of execution issued against another than
complaina.nt.—Whenever real estate in this State belonging to

any person, natural or artificial, shall be levied upon, or attempted to be sold under any writ of  facias or other legal
process issued upon any judgment, decree or order against another
person, or shall be attempted to be sold as the property of another
person, the courts of equity of this State shall have jurisdiction
to restrain and enjoin such attempted sale on the application of
such owner in possession of such real estate, or the legal representatives of such owner.

Bill to remove cloud from title must show title in complainant-.—Benner v.
Kendall, 21 F |a., 584. And possession.—Bevill v. Smith, 25 Fla., 209. \Vhat
possession necessar .—Sloan v. Sloan, 273 Fla., 533; Conant v. Buesing, 23 Fla.,
559. Cloud definei .—-Benner v. Kendall, 21 Fla., 584; Stewart v. Stewart, 19
Fla., 846; Davidson v. Seegar, 15 Fla., 671. Bills to remove clouds sustained.Conant. v. Buesing, 23 l~‘la.. 559; Lewter v. l-lower, 18 Fla., 872; Sanford v.
Cloud. 17 Fla., 557 . Budd v. Long, 13 Fla... 288.

1469. Against destruction of timber.—Courts of chanoery
shall entertain suits by any person claiming to own any timbered
lands in this State, to enjoin trespasscs on such lands by the cutting of trees thereon, or the removal of logs therefrom, or by
boxing or scraping the said trees for the purpose of making turpentine, or by the removal of turpentine therefrom; and in such
suits the said courts shall cause an account to be taken of the
damage to the complainant from any of said trespasses, before or
after the institution of the suit, and decree the payment of the
amounts shown to be due upon such accounting, by the defendant.
or defendants, and may appoint receivers of logs or timber
claimed to have been cut from said lands.

1470. Injunctions in exemption matters.—See sections 2005
to 2007.

1471. Injunctions against violation of board of health rules.
See section 800.

1472. Injunction against removal of mortgaged personal
property.——Upon application of the mortgagee or his assigns, the
removal from the State of any personal property mortgaged to
secure a debt not matured at the time of the application may be
enjoined by any court of chancery within the territorial jurisdiction of which such property may be.

ARTICLE 12.

WRIT OF NE EXEAT.

1473. When to issue.—-No writ of ne esceat shall be granted
until a bill sworn or supported by affidavit be filed praying for
such writ, except in the special cases‘ and for the special causes in
which said writs are authorized by the practice of the courts of
the United States exercising equity jurisdiction. It may issue in
any case where the court of chanecry shall have concurrent jurisdiction with a court of common law, and where the issuance shall
seem to the chancellor just.

1474. Bond upon.-—In granting such writ the chancellor shall
fix the penalty and conditions of the bond to be required of the
complainant, to defendant, with two good and sufficient sureties
to be approved by the court, and no such writ shall issue until
such bond shall be given -by the complainant.

1475. Absence of defendant permitted.—1ln absence of the
defendant from the State, from which he shall return before a personal appearance shall be necessary by any decree of the court, or
before it shall be necessary to perform any order of the court, shall
not be considered a breach of the condition of the bond.

1476. Surrender of defendant by ba.il.—The sureties (or
either of them) of the defendant shall have power personally or

by attorney, at any time before the bond shall be forfeited, to take
the body of the principal and surrender him in open court, or deliver him to the ministerial officer of the court in which the suit
is depending, who shall detain said principal as in cases of the
surrender of the principal by special bail, and at the time of such
delivery to the aforesaid officer the surety shall take a receipt for
the body and file it with the clerk of the court, either of which, if
done before the bond is forfeited, shall discharge the sureties from
their undertaking.

\

STATUTORY PROCEEDINGS IN CHANCERY.

’ Divorce, alimony and care of children. Sections . . . . . 1477-1489
Partition. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1-190-1493
Equitable garnishment. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1499
Avoidance of mu1t.ipli_r'.ity of suits in land matters. Section 1500
Removal of disabilities of minors. Sections . . . . . . . . 1501-150-1
Removal of disabilities of married women. Sections . . . 1505-1509

In liens. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1510

ARTICLE 13.

DIVORCE, ALIMONY AND CARE OF CHILDREN.

Divorce. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1477-1482

Alimony. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483-1488

Care of children. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1489
DIVORCE.

1477. To be sought by bill in chancery.—Suits for divorce
shall in all cases be by bill in equity.

1478. Residence required.——In order to obtain a divorce, the
complainant must have resided two years in the State of Florida.

before filing the bill.

Suiiiciency of allegation of residence.—Burns v. Burns, 13 Fla., 369. Allegation and proof of, essential.—Phelan v. Phelan, 12 Fla., 449.

1479. All divorces to be a vinculo.—No divorce shall be
from bed and board, but every divorce shall be from the bonds

of matrimony.

1480. Grounds for.—No divorce shall be granted unless one
of the following facts shall appear:

1. That the parties are within the degrees prohibited by law.

2. That the defendant is naturally impotent.

3. That the defendant has been guilty of adultery. If it
shall appear to the court that the adultery complained of was
occasioned by collusion of the parties, and done with the intention to procure a divorce, or that both parties have been guilty of
adultery, no divorce shall be decreed.

4. Extreme cruelty by defendant to complainant.

Sufficiency of allegation of extreme cruelty.—Burns v. Burns, 13 Fla., 369;
Donald v. Donald, 21 1' 1a., 571. Extreme cruelty deiined.—Wi1liams v. Williams,
23 Fla., 324. Effect of subsequent unkindness.——Ib.

5. Habitual indulgence by defendant in violent or ungovemable temper.

What allegations necessary.-—Johnson v. Johnson, 23 Fla., 413; Burns v.
Burns, 13 Fla., 369. What does not constitute.-—Crawford v. Crawford, 17 Fla.,

180.
6. Habitual intemperance of defendant.

Detlned.—McGill v. McGill, 19 Fla., 341. Sufficiency‘ of allegation of.Burns v. Burns, 13 Fla., 369.

7. Wilful, obstinate and continued desertion of complainant
by defendant for one year.

Intention to desert necessai-y.—Crawford v. Crawford, 17 Fla., 180. ‘

8. That the defendant has obtained a divorce from the complainant in any other State or country.
9. That either party had a husband or wife living at the time

of the marriage sought to be annulled.

1481. Effect of decree of divorce.——No decree of divorce
shall render illegitimate the children born during the marriage,

except when it is rendered upon the ground set forth in paragraph 9 of the preceding section, in which case the marriage shall
be invalid from the beginning and the issue illegitimate, and subject to all the legal disabilities of such issue.

Effect of divorce upon separate property of wife.—McGill v. McGill, 19 Fla.,
341.

1482. Proceedings against non-resident defendants.—Bi1ls
‘for divorce may be brought against defendants residing out of the

State, and service shall be effected upon them as in other cases in
chancery.

Miscellaneous matters concerning divorce.—Evidence of marriage in
divorce procecdings.—-Burns v. Burns, 13 Fla., 369. Divorce cannot be granted
by consent of parties.—Underwood' v. Underwood, 12 Fla., 432. Cannot be
granted bv le islature.—Ponder v. Graham, 4 Fla., 23. When appeal in, supersedeas.—McGi l V. Md(iill, 19 Fla., 341. Setting aside fraudulent d1vorces.—Rawlins v. Rawlins, 18 Fla., 345.

ALIMONY.

1483. Alimony pendente lite.—In every suit by a wife for a
divorce founded upon any of the grounds mentioned in section

1480, she may in the bill for divorce, or by petition, claim alimony and suit money, and, if the bill seems well founded, the
court shall allow a reasonable sum therefore. Or if a wife defendant in any suit for divorce shall in her answer, or by petition,
claim alimony or suit money, and the answer or petition shall
seem well founded, the court shall allow a reasonable sum therefore.

Alimony pendeme defined; granting of and suit mone ;noticeto husband.Sanchez v. . anchez, 21 Fla., 346. Alimony not of right.—- nderwood v. Underwood, 12 Fla., 432. When granted after divorce.-—Ib. Only granted when bill
makes primafacie case for divorce.—Phelan v. Phelan, 12 Fla., 449. As affected
by income of wife.—Chaires v. Chaires, 10 Fla., 308.

1484. Alimony upon decree_ of divorce.—In every decree of
divorce in a suit by the wife, the court shall make such orders

touching the maintenance, alimony and suit money of the wife,
or any allowance to be made to her, and, if any, the security to
be given for the same, as from the circumstances of the parties
and nature of the case may be fit, equitable and just; but no alimoney shall be granted to an adulterous wife.

1485. Alimony unconnected with divorce.—-If any of the
causes of divorce set forth in section 1480 (except in the 9th paragraph) shall exist in favor of the wife and she be living apart
from her husband, she may obtain alimony without seeking a
divorce, upon bill filedand suit prosecuted as in other chancery
causes ;- and the court shall have power to grant such temporary
and ‘ permanent alimony and suit money as the circumstances of
the parties may render just; but no alimony shall be granted to
an adulterous wife.

1486. Alimony unconnected with causes of divorce.—-If any
husband having ability to maintain or to contribute to the maintenance of his wife or minor children, shall fail to do so, the

wife, living with him, or living apart from him through his fault,
may obtain such maintenance or contribution upon bill filed and
suit prosecuted as in other chancerycauses, and the court shall
make such orders as may be necessary to secure to her such
maintenance or contribution.

1487. Effect of decree of alimony.-—-A decree of "alimony
granted under sections 1484 and 1485 shall release the wife from

the control of her husband, and she may use her alimony, and
acquire, use and dispose of other property, uncontrolled by her
husband, and when the husband is about to remove himself or
his property out of the State, or fraudulently convey or conceal
it, the court may award a ne esceat or injunction against him or
his property, and make such order or decree as will secure the
wife’s alimony to her.

‘1488. Proceedings against absent defendants in suits for
alimony.—Proceedings against absent defendants in suits for alimony shall be the same as in other chancery causes.

Permanent alimony not grantable in gross sum or in specific part of busband’s estate.-—Phelan v. Phelan, 12 Fla., 449. Must be based on proof.-—Ib..
Largely in discretion of lower court.—Chaires v. Chaires, 10 Fla., 308. May be
additional to income of wife.—Ib.

CARE, CUSTODY AND MAINTENANCE OF THE CHILDREN.

148§. Power of court in making orders.—In any suit for
divorce or alimony, the court shall have power at any stage of

the cause to make such orders touching the care, custody and
maintenance of the children of the marriage, and, if any, the
security to be given for the same, as from the circumstances of
the parties and the nature of the case may be lit, equitable and
just, and such order touching their custody as their best spiritual
as well as other interests may require.

Circumstances of parents as affecting custody.—Williams v. Williams, 233
Fla., 324. Custody discussed.——Mc-Gill v.’ McGill, 19 Fla., 341’.

ARTICLE 14.

rnurrxzrrox or REAL AND PERSONAL PROPERTY.

, Partition of real property. Sections . . . . . .. . . .. 1490-1497‘
Partition of personal property. Section . . . . . . . 1498

PARTITION OF REAL PROPERTY.

To be by bill in chancery. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . 1490‘

Locality of actions. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I491?

Parties to suit. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1492‘

Form, and contents of bill. Section . . . . . . . . . . . I493‘

Decrees. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1494

Commissioners to make partition. Section . . . . . . . . . 1495

Sale of non-divisible property. Section . . . . . . . . . .. 14961

Costs. Section . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . 149!

1490. To be by bill in chancery.——Suits for partition of real
estateshall in all cases be by bill in chancery, and all proceedings, except when herein otherwise provided, shall be as in other
cases in chancery.

Crosa bill for partition in tort closure suit not sustained.--Mathews v. Lindsay, 20 Fla., 962.

1491. Locality of a.ction.—Suits for partition shall be brought
in the county where the lands which are the subject matter of the
suit lie; but if the lands lie in more than one county, the suitmay
be brought in either county, in which case, the decree shall be
recorded in every county in which any part of the land lies.

1492. Parties to the suit.—‘Such bill may be filed by any oneor more of several joint tenants, tenants in common, or coparceners, against their co-tenants, coparceners or others interested
in the lands to be divided.

Admr. cannot maintain.—Greeley v. Hendricks, 23 Fl_a., 366; Whitlock v..

Willard, 18 Fla., 156. °Service of infant defendant must precede appointment of
guardian ad litem.’-—Brock v. Doyle, 18 Fla., 172.

1493. Form and contents of the bi1l.—-Such bill must be
sworn to by one or more of the complain:-mts and shall set forth
a description of the lands or premises of which partition is prayed,
by metes and bounds or other sufficient description, and shall
state according. to the best of the knowledge and belief of the
complainants the names and places of residence of the several
owners, joint tenants, tenants in common, or coparceners or other
persons interested in said lands or real estate, the quantity or
proportionate share held by each, and such other matters, if any,
as may be necessary to enable the court to adjudicate fully upon
the rights and interests of the parties. But if the names, residence, quantity of interest or proportionate share of any of the
owners or claimants of such lands are unknown to the complainants, then it shall be so stated in such bill and such suit may
proceed in the same manner as though such unknown persons or
defendants were named in the bill.

Sufficient allegation of possession by co-tenants.—Keil v. West, 21 Fla., 508.

1494. Decree of pa.rtition.—Upon application for entry of a
final decree, made after a decree pro confcsso, or after litigation of
the cause, the court shall proceed to ascertain and adjudicate the
rights and interests of the parties, either by a reference to a
master, by a hearing upon the pleadings and proof, or in such
other way or manner as may be most convenient and according
to the ordinary rules and practice of the court; and shall also
decree that partition be made if it shall appear‘ that the parties
are entitled to the same. When the rights and interests, or
proportions of the complainants are clearly established to the
satisfaction of the court, or are undisputed, the court may by
decree order partition to be made, and the shares, proportions or
interests of the complainant or complainants, and such of the

defendants as have established and satisfactorily proved their.

respective shares, interests, or proportions, to be set off and
allotted to them, leaving for future adjustment (by further proceedings in the same cause) the rights, shares and interests of the
other defendants.

Court must ascertain and adjudicate interests. Commissioners cannot.Street v. Benner, 20 Fla., 700. Decree grantable only after answer or decree pro
confesso.—I b. Decree may adjudicate legal title.—Ib.

1495. Commissioners to make partition.1. APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL.—-Upon a decree of partition
being made, the court shall appoint three suitable persons to act
as commissioners in making the partition decree, who shall be
selected b.y the court, unless agreed upon by the parties. They
may be removed by the court upon good cause to be shown, and
others appointed in their place.

2. POWERS, DUTIES, COMPENSATION AND REPORT or COMMISs1o1\'i:Rs.—Such commissioners shall, before entering upon their
duties, be sworn by the clerk of the court, or by’ any judicial officer, faithfully and impartially to execute the trust imposed in
them; shall have power to employ a surveyor or surveyors, if
necessary for the purpose of making such partition; shall be
allowed such sum as may be deemed reasonable by the court for
their services, not exceeding, however, three dollars per day for
every day actually employed; shall proceed to make partition of
the premises in question according to the order of the court; and,
having made such partition, shall report the same in writing to
the court without delay.

3. EXCEPTIONS TO REPORT, AND FINAL DEcREE.—Any party in
interest may file objections or exceptions to the report of the
commissioners within ten days after he shall be notified of the
filing of the same; or if he be absent from the State so that notice cannot be given, within thirty days after the same is filed; if
no objections or exceptions are filed as aforesaid, or if the court
is satisfied, upon the hearing of any such objections or exceptions,
that they are not well founded, then the report shall be confirmed, and a final decree shall be entered up, which shall accordingly vcst in the respective parties the title to the several
parcels or portions of the premises allotted to them respectively,
and shall give to each of them the possession of a11d quiet title
to their respective shares, as against the other parties to the suit,
or those claiming through or under them.

Shares assigned need not be equal. 0welty.—Brock _v. Doyle, 18 Fla., 172.
Assignment largely in discretion of chancellor.—Bird v. Bird, 15 Fla., 424.

1496. Sale of non-divisible real estate.1. ORDER or SALE.—-If the commissioners shall report to the
court that the lands, tenements or hereditaments of which partition shall have been directed are so situated that a partition
thereof cannot be made without great prejudice to the owners of
the same, and if the court shall be satisfied that such report is
just and correct, the court‘ may thereupon, upon application of

either party upon notice to the others before the -court, if said
others be in the State, order the premises so situated to be sold at
public auction to the highest bidder, by and under the direction
of the said commissioners, and the monies arising from such sale
to be paid into the court, to be divided among the respective
parties interested in proportion to their shares or interest.

2. CONDITIONS or SALE.—-For good cause to be shown, the
court may order such sale to be made upon a reasonable credit,
for part or all of the purchase money, but in all cases at least
one-third of the purchase money shall be paid down unless all
parties consent to a credit for the whole; and in all cases the
purchase money not paid down shall be secured by bond and
mortgage on the premises, and such other additional security as

' the court shall direct.

3. CONFIRMATION OF SALE AND CONVEYANCE.—-Such sale must
have been reported to the court and the money arising therefrom
paid into the court, and the sale approved by the court, and a
conveyance ordered, before any conveyance in pursuance of such
sale shall be made by the commissioners.

1497. Costs of partition.—Every party in interest, whether
complainant or respondent, shall by decree of the court, be bound
to pay a share of the costs and charges, including attorney’s fees
of complainant’s solicitor, arising from the suit for the partition
or sale of the land, in proportion to his interest; and such decree shall be binding on all his goods and chattels, lands or tenements; and in case of sale the court may order the same to be
paid or retained out of the monies arising from such sale and
due or belonging to the parties who ought to pay the same.

Miscellaneous matters concerning partition of real estate.—Writ of
assistance in.—Keil v. West, 21 Fla., 508. Seizin necessary in. Reference to
master.——Ib. Cannot be decreed in foreclosure suit.— Buckmaster v. Kelley.
15 Fla., 180. Rents and profits or compensation for use and occupation cannot
be recovered in.—Mattair v. Payne, 15 Fla., 682. Nor partition had of premises
held adversely, nor title tried in partition suit.—Ib.

PARTITION OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.

1498. Provisions of law applicable to.—A11 the provisions
of law applicable to partition and sale for partition of real estate,

and the proceedings therefore, are applicable to the partition and
sale for partition of personal property and the proceedings therefore.

ARTICLE 15.

EQU ITABLE GARNISHMENT.

1499. Proceedings prescribed.——If any suit shall be commenced for relief in equity in any court against any defendant

residing out of this State, a11d any other defendant within the
same having in his hands effects of, or being-otherwise indebted
to, such absent defendant, and the appearance of such absentee

be not entered and security given to the satisfaction of the court
for performing the decree, upon affidavit that such defendant is
out of the State, or that upon inquiry at his usual place of abode
he could not be found so as to be served with process, the court
may make an _order and require surety if it shall appear necessary, to restrain the defendant in this State from paying or
conveying away, or secreting the debts by him owing to, or the
effects in his hands, of such absent defendant, or to restrain the
absent defendant from conveying away, or secreting or removing
the property in litigation, or make an order sequestrating the
property which may be necessary to secure the plaintifff if he
finally succeed ; and may order such debts to be paid, and\effects
to be delivered up to said plaintifff upon his giving sufiicient

security for the return thereof to such person and in such man-'

ner as the court may direct.
ervices upon the absent defendant shall be had in the manner provided by law (see section 1413), and if the defendant do
not appear and answer, plead or demur to the bill, decrees pro
con_.fesso and final may be entered as in other cases; and the court
shall make an order requiring the complainant to give security,
to be approved by the court or its clerk, for abiding such future
orders as may be made for restoring the estate or effects to the
absent defendant upon his appearance and answering the bill;
and if the complainant shall refuse to give or not be able to procure such security, the effects shall remain under the direction of
the court, in the hands of a receiver, or otherwise, for so long a
time, and shall be finally disposed of in such manner as to the
court shall seem lit.

ARTICLE 16. A

IAVOIDANCE OF MULTIPLICITY OF SUITS IN PLAND MATPERS.

1500. Jurisdiction conferred.—Courts of chancery in this
State shall entertain suits by any person or corporation claiming

to own any tract or parcel of land or portions thereof or by two or
more claiming to own the same tract or parcel of land or portion
thereof under a common title, against all persons or corporations
more than one, occupying or claiming title to said tract or portions
thereof adversely to the complainant or complainants, whether
the defendants claim or held under a common title or not; and
in such suits, shall determine the title of the complainant or complainants, and each of them, as against the defendants, and each
of them, and shall make a decree quieting the title of, and
awarding possession to, the complainant or complainants entitled thereto; and may award injunctions, temporary or perpetual,
appoint receivers, and make such orders as to costs as may be
necessary for the protection of the rights of the parties.

ARTICLE 17.

REMOVAL OF DISABILITIIE OF MINORS.

1501. Powers of judges to remove.—The judges of the several circuit courts of this State sitting in chancery shall have full

power and authority, either in term time or in vacation at chambers, to remove the disabilities of non-age of all minors, male or
female, over the age of eighteen years, residing in this State, upon
a petition filed by the guardian, and in event of there being no
natural or legal guardian, then by the next friend of such minor
in any of the circuits of this State.

Applied to disability to practice 1aw.—State ex rel. Herbert v. Baker, 25
F1a., 598.

1502. By petition, contents of.—Such petition shall set forth
the name and age of such minor and his character, habits, education and mental capacity for business, and briefly set out the
reasons Why such disabilities should be removed, and shall be
sworn to before some officer authorized to administer oaths.

1503. Proceedings upon petition.—The judge before whom
any such petition shall be filed, shall forthwith consider the same,

together with such evidence as to the character, habits and mental capacity of the minor as to him shall seem proper, and if satistied that the removal of the disabilities of such minor will be
for his permanent interest or benefit, he shall make a decree removing his disabilities of nonage and authorizing such minor to
assume the management and control of all of his estate; to contract and be contracted with; to sue and to be sued, and to do

and perform any and all acts, matters and things that he could
do if twenty-one years of age.

1504. Decree to be recorded.—Such decree shall be duly recorded in the office of records of the county in which such minor
resides, and a certified copy thereof shall be taken and received
as sufficient evidence of the removal of the disabilities of nonage of such minor in all the courts of this State in which said

minor may have any business or be engaged in any legal controversy.

ARTICLE 18. .

REMOVAL OF‘ DISABILITIE OF MARRIED VVOMEN.

1505. Right to and manner of application.~Any married
woman who resides in the State of Florida, and who may Wish

to take charge of and manage her estate and to become a free
dealer in every respect, may apply by petition in chancery to the
judge of the circuit court for the circuit in which said married
woman may reside for a license to take charge of and manage
her own estate and property, and to become a free dealer.

1506. Notice upon tiling petition.—She shall give notice
once each week for four successive weeks in some newspaper in
the county in which she may reside, previous to the filing of
such petition, that she intends to apply to the judge of the circuit court for a license to manage, take charge of, and control
her property, and to become a free dealer in every respect.

1507. Reference to a. ma.ster.—Upon filing such petition,
the judge to Whom it may be addressed shall make an order referring it to a master of the court, with direction to take testimony and make inquiry as to the capacity, competency and
qualification of such married woman to take charge of and
manage her own estate and property, and to become a free
dealer, and to report to the judge the testimony and his opinion
upon the matter referred. '

1508. Decree.—Upon the coming in and filing of said report
and testimony, and upon the hearing thereof, if the judge shall
be satisfied as to the capacity and qualifications of such married
woman to take charge of and manage her own estate and property, and to become a free dealer in every respect, it shall be lawful for the judge to make an order confirming the report of the
master, and to grant to the applicant a license in accordance with
the prayer of the petition; and thereupon such applicant, after
she shall have published a copy of the order or decree granting
the license in the manner and for the time prescribed for publication of the notice of application, shall be authorized to take
charge of and control her estate, to contract and be contracted
with, to sue and be sued, and to bind herself in all respects as
fully as if she were unmarried.

1509. Gosts.—All the costs and expenses of such application,
whether the same be granted or not, shall be a lien upon and paid
out of the estate of the applicant, to be taxed and collected as

costs in other cases.

Rights and privileges of free-traders discussed.—Martinez v. Ward, 19 Flu,
175. Statute constitutional.—Ib.

ARTICLE 19.

J URlSI)ICI‘I()N OVER LIENS.

1510. Extension of.—

All liens of any kind, whether created by statute or the common law, and whether heretofore regarded as merely possessory
or not, may be enforced by proceedings in chancery.

CHAPTER XI.

OF THE SPECIAL STATUTORY JURISDICTION OF THE CIRCUIT COURT.

ARTICLE 1.—Ejectment. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . 1511-1522
2.—Establishment of lost papers, etc. Sections . 1523-1535
3.—Adoption of children. Sections . . . . . . 1536-1541
4.—Declaring tax assessment invalid. Section . . 1542
5.—-Changing names of persons. Section . . . . 1543

6.-Condemnation of private property. Sections. 1544-1564

ARTICLE 1.
EJECPMENT.
Proceedings in ejectment. Sections . . . . . . . . . . 1511-1515
Betterment proceedings alter ejectment. Sections . . 1516-1522

PROCEEDINGS IN EJECTMENT:

1511. Common law action abolished.——In actions of ejectment it shall not be necessary to have any fictitious parties to

the suit, but the party plaintifff may bring his suit directly.

against the party in possession or the one claiming adversely.

1512. Summons.--The ordinary writ of summons may be
issued in all suits in ejectment in this State, and in no case shall
it be necessary to serve a copy of the declaration in such suits
upon the defendant therein.

1513. Pleadings.— 1. DECLARATION.——Tl1e declaration shall only contain a plain
statement of the cause of action to entitle the plaintifff to recover
the land in controversy, together with mesne profits. It may be
in the following form, to-wit:

“ In the circuit court of Florida . . . circuit .
“county, to-wit: _r

“ A. B., by his attorney, sues C. D. in an action of ejectment:
“Because the defendant is in possession of a certain tract or parcel
“of land, situate, lying and being in said county, known and de“scribed as follows, to-wit: (here describe the land) containing

“about . . . acres, to which said plaintifff claims title; and the
“defendant has received the profits of said land since the .
“day of. . . . . . A. D. . . ,of the yearly value of .

“dollars, and refuses to deliver possession of said land to the said
“plaintifff, or to pay him the profits thereof.”
Quantit of land recoverable limited by declaration.—Horne v. Carter’s

admr., 20 F a., 45. Declaration upon undivided interest sufficient; need not
allege exclusive possession.-—~Gale v. Hines, 17 Fla., 773.

i2.‘PLEA.-—Thev plea of “Not Guilty,” shall put in issue the
title of said land in controversy.

Such plea shall be held to admit the possession of the defendant, or in case of an adverse claimant, the adverse claim of
the defendant. Should the defendant Wish to deny possession it
shall be done by special plea.

Effect of plea of not guilty.—I-Iorne v. Carter’s admr., 20 Fla., 45. Adverse
Bissession may be shown under.—Coffee v. Groover, 20 Fla., 64; Weiskoph V.
ibble, 18 F|a., 24. Special plea equivalent to plea of not guilty should be
stricken out.—Barco v. Fennel , 24 Fla., 378; Neal v. Spooner, 20 Fla., 38; Coffee
v. Groover, 20 Fla.. 64; Weiskoph v. Dibble, 18 Fla., 24; Wade v. Doyle, 17 Fla.,
522: Davis v. Shuler, 1-1 Fla., 438. Demurrer does not reach such mispleading.
—Wade v. Doyle. 17 Fla., 522. Plea of “puts darrein crmtinuance.”—-Spratt V.

Price. 18 Fla., 289. Equitable plea permissible in ejectment.——Walls v. Endel,
20 Fla., 86.

1514. Discovery in ejectment.-Either party to a suit in
ejectment may avail himself of the proceedings by interrogatories
provided by sections 1116 and 1117 to obtain a disclosure from
the other party of the title, and every link thereof, upon which
such other party sues or defends.

1515. Verdict and judgment for plainti11‘.—

1. VERDICT.—-A verdict for the plaintifff shall state the quantity of the estate of the plaintifff and describe the land by its
metes a11d bounds, by the number of the lot or other certain description.

Verdict must find right of possession in plaintifff.-—Asia v. Hiser, 22 Fla.,
378. Sutiicient certainty in verdict.—Patrick v. Young, 18 Fla., 50.

2. JUDGMENT.-The judgment awarding possession shall in
like manner state the quantity of the estate, and give a description of the land recovered.

S

BETTERMENT PROCEEDINGS AFTER EJECTMENT.

1516; Petition of defenda.nt.—If in any suit in ejectment a
judgment of eviction shall be rendered against the defendant, he
may at any time within three months after the rendition of such
judgment, or if he shall have prosecuted a writ of error, within
three months after the affirmance of such judgment, file in the
circuit court in which such judgment shall have been rendered a
petition setting forth :

1. That such defendant had, before the beginning of the
suit in which such judgment shall have been rendered, been in
possession of, and that he or those under whom he validly derived had permanently improved the value of, the property in
controversy.

2. That he or those under whom he validly derived held said
property at the time of such improvement under an apparently
good, legal or equitable title, derived from the English, Spanish
or United States governments, or from this State; or under a
legal or equitable title plain and connected upon the records of
a public office or public offices; or under purchase at a regular
sale made by an executor, administrator, guardian or other person by order of court, and

3. That when the defendant made said improvements, or purchased said property improved he believed the title which he
held or purchased to the land thus improved to be a good and
valid title. Such petition shall pray that the value of the improvements shall be assessed and compensation awarded to him
therefore.

Proceedings lie only after verdict in ejectment.‘—Asia v. Hiser, 22 Fla., 378.

1517. Traverse and time of tria.l.—The plaintifff in the
judgment of eviction may traverse the allegations in said petition, or any of them, within sixty days, unless further time be
given by the court, after the notice to him of the filing of the
petition, and the issue or issues thus made shall stand for trial
at the term of court next after the filing of the traverse; or if no
traverse be filed, the petition shall stand for trial at the term of
the court next after the expiration of sixty days from the filing
of the petition.

1518. Trial and verdict of the jury.—If a traverse shall have
been filed the plaintifff and defendant shall proceed to trial of the

issues made by the traverse; but if no traverse be filed, the trial
shall proceed 0.2: pairte, but the defendant shall be bound to prove
every allegation of the petition. Whether the trial be eat parte or
not, the jury shall be sworn to try the issues as aforesaid, and if
they find them all in favor of the defendant in ejectment, to
assess:

1. The value of the land at the time of the assessment, irrespective of the improvements put upon the land by the defendant, or those under whom he derives, and of the injury done to
the land by such defendant, or those under whom he derives.

2. The value of the permanent improvements at the time of
the assessment.

3. The injury, if any, done to the land by the defendant or
those under whom he derives, and

4. The value of the use of the land by the defendant between
the time of the judgment in ejectment and the time of the assessment, or if the defendant has been evicted from, or has surrendered the premises, from the time of the judgment to the time
of the surrender or eviction. The jury shall specify in its verdict separately its findings upon each of the matters submitted
to it.

1519. Judgment for plaintiff.-—Upon the rendition of such
verdict the court shall cause the clerk to ascertain whether the

balance of the last three assessments aforesaid (that is, of the
value of the improvements, the extent of the injury and the
value of the use of land), he in favor of the plaintifff in ejectment, or of the defendant, and to ascertain the amount of such
balance; if the verdict -be in favor of the plaintifff, on the issues
made upon the petition, a judgment shall be rendered against the
defendant for costs, whether the balance of the assessments aforesaid be in favor of the plaintifff or the defendant; but if the balance of the assessments be in favor of the plaintifff, he shall have
in addition to the judgment for costs a judgment for such balance.

1520. Judgment for defendant.—If the Verdict upon the ‘

issues presented by the petition be in favor of the defendant, and
the balance of assessments be also in his favor, a judgment for
costs shall be entered against the plaintifff, and a further judgment that unless the plaintifff shall within sixty days pay or secure, as hereinafter provided, the amount of the balance of
assessments against him, the defendant may pay or secure to the
plaintifff the value of the land as assessed by the jury, as aforesaid.

1521. Payment by pla.intiif.—Thc plaintifff may pay said balance in cash, or may execute and deliver to the defendant a bond
with two good and sufficient sureties, to be approved by the clerk
of said court, conditioned to pay to the defendant in ejectment
the said balance in two equal annual installments with interest
at 8 per cent. per annum. If the plaintifff shall pay the said sum
within sixty days, or if payment of the said bond shall be received, satisfaction of the judgment shall be entered and all
rights conferred upon the defendant by said judgment shall
cease.

1522. Payment by defendant.—] f, however, the plaintifff shall
not pay or secure the said sum within said sixty days, the defendant shall have the right within sixty days thereafter to pay to the
plaintifff the value of the land as assessed by the jury, or to give
to the plaintifff a bond with good and sufficient sureties, to be
approved by the clerk of the said court, conditioned to pay to

the plaintifff the said value in two equal annual installments,
with eight per cent. interest; or if the plaintifff shall fail to pay
the bond given by him as aforesaid when the same shall become
due, the defendant shall again have the privilege for sixty days
after the expiration of the time fixed inthe bond for payment,
of paying to the plaintifff in cash the value of the land assessed
as aforesaid. Upon the payment of said sum to the plaintifff at
any of the times hereinbefore mentioned, the title to the said
land shall vest in the defendant, and the plaintifff or those holding under him shall give to the defendant a deed to the said
land, tenements hereditaments and appurmnances, and if the defendant shall have been evicted from or shall have surrendered
the premises, they shall be restored to him by order of the court,
upon motion.

ARTICLE 2.

RE-ESTABLISIIMENT OF LOST PAPERS AND RECORDS.

What may be re-established. Section . . . . . . . . . . .1523
\Vho may re-establish. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1524
In what court proceedings to be had. Section . . . . . . . . 1525
Proceedings to be concurrent with equity and common law proceedings. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1526
Effect of re-establishnient. Section . . . .' . . . . . . . . . 1527
M1-rrnon or Rs-F.s'rABLrs11MEN'r:
Marks and brands. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1528
‘Writs of ji._fa.. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1529-1531
Proceedings and process in pending suits. Section . . . . . . 1532

Papers and records other than those mentioned. Sections 1533-1535

1523. What may be re-established.—All papers, written or
printed, of any kind whatsoever, and the records and files of any
official, court or public office, may be re-established in the manner hereinafter provided.

1524. Who may re-establish.—Any person interested in the
paper, file or record to be re-established may re-establish the
same.

1525. In what court to be had.—All proceedings had under the provisions hereof shall, if the re-establishment be sought
of a record or file, be had in the circuit court of the county
where such record or file existed before the loss or destruction
thereof, and if it be a private paper, in the circuit court of the
county where any person to be affected thereby shall live, or if
such persons be non-residents, then in the circuit court of any
county in which the person seeking the re-establishment may desire.

1526. Proceedings to be concurrent with equity and common
law proceedings.—Nothing herein contained shall prevent the

re-establishment of lost papers, records and files, at common law
or in equity in the usual manner.

Power of equity to establish.——GrifIin v. Fries, 23 Fla., 173. Equity cannot
establish records of courts of law.—Kcen v. Jordan, 13 Fla., 327. Court of law

1527. Efect of re-establishment.—Any paper, record or file
re-established shall have the force and effect of the original. A
private paper shall have such effect immediately upon the recording of the order re-establishing it; but a re-established record
shall not have that effect until recorded in the book provided for
the class of records to which it belongs; and a re-established
paper or file of any official, court or public office shall not have
such effect until a copy thereof, certified by the clerk of the circuit court, shall have been filed with the official or in the court
or public office where the original belonged. A certified copy of
all re-established papers required or authorized by law to be recorded may be re-recorded.

Does not bar a defense to the lost paper. Prescott v. Johnson, 8 Fla., 391.
Due form of re-established deed presumed.—Christy v. Burch, 25 Fla., 9422.

M ETHOD OF RE-ESTABLISHMENT.

1528. Marks and brands. The person desiring the re-establishment of the record of any marks or brands, shall file in the
circuit court a petition under oath, describing the particular
mark or brand sought to be re-established, and stating the place
where the same was recorded, the time of record as near as may
be known, and that the record thereof has been lost or destroyed,
and requesting the re-esta‘blishment of the record of such mark
or brand. Upon the filing of such petition, the judge of said
court shall make an order re-establishing the said record.

WRITS OF FI. FA.

1529. Affidavit and order.—Loss or destroyed writs of _/i. fa.
issued upon lost or destroyed judgments, may be re-established
by the filing in the circuit court of an affidavit by the party
desiring the re-establishment, his agent or attorney, setting forth
the loss or destruction of the writ, the contents of it and the loss
or destruction of the judgment upon which the writ issued, and
the belief of affiant that the plaintifff will, in whole or in part,
lose the amount of the lost or destroyed judgment before the
same can be re-established. Upon the filing of such affidavit,
the clerk of said court shall make an order that another writ
shall be issued in lieu of the original lost or destroyed, and the
proper officer of the court from which the writ originally issued
shall issue such other writ.

1530. Defendant may release property levied upon under
such new writ.—The defendant may release any property levied
upon under such new writ by filing with the officer executing
the same an affidavit sworn to by himself, his agent or attorney,
that the lost or destroyed judgment has been satisfied in whole
or in part, and by filing with said officer a bond, with two good
and sufficient sureties, payable to the plaintifff’, in double the
amount claimed to be due on said judgment, conditioned to pay
to the plaintifff‘ the amount adjudged by the court, in the proceedings provided for hereafter, to be due the plaintifff" upon said
judgment.

1531. Proceedings therea.fter.—The officer shall return the
affidavit and bond aforesaid to the court issuing the execution,.
and at a term of court thereafter the issues presented by- the said
affidavits of the plaintifff, and of the defendant, shall be tried
by the court and jury. If the jury find in favor of the plaintifff, they shall specify the amount due to him upon the execution, and the judgment therefore shall be entered up against the
defendant and the sureties on the bond for such sum, and execution shall issue thereon. PLEADINGS AND PROCESS IN PENDING SUITS.

1532. Proceedings prescribed.—Lost or destroyed proceedings, and any paper or file affecting them, in any suit pending
and undetermined in any court, may be re-established as follows:

The person desiring such re-establislnnent shall file a substantial copy of such proceeding or writing in the circuit court,
and shall give ten days’ notice in writing to all parties to the
suit or their attorneys of record, of an application to the court
for the re-establishment of such proceedings, or paper or file.
Such notice shall be personally served at least ten (10) days before the time fixed for such application. Upon the hearing of
such application the judge may, in such manner as he may think
best, ascertain the facts, and upon such ascertainment determine
the application. _

ESTABLISHMENT OF PAPERS AND RECORDS OTHER. THAN HEREII\'BEFORE MENTIONED.

1533. Petition.—A person desiring to establish any paper,
record or file, except those provided for in sections 1528 to 1532,

inclusive, shall file in the circuit court a petition, sworn to by ,

himself, his agent or attorney, setting forth that such paper, record or file has been lost or destroyed, and is not in the custody or
control of the petitioner, the time and manner of such loss or
destruction, and that a copy (to be attached to the petition) is a
substantial copy of that lost or destroyed, and that persons to be
named in the petition are the persons, and the only persons
known to the petitioner, interested for or against the re-establishment of such paper, record or file. ~

1534. Notice.1. CONTENTS oF.—Upon the filing of such petition, the clerk
shall issue a notice, to which shall be attached a copy of the petition, requiring the persons named in the petition as interested,
and all other persons interested, to appear before the judge of the
said court at a time to be fixed in said notice, not less than fortyfive nor more than sixty days from the issuance of the notice, to
show cause why the said paper, record or file should not be reestablished.

2. PUBLICATION AND SERVICE on THE NOTICE.-—-The clerk
shall alsocause to be published notice to all such persons so
named and not served, and to all other persons, to appear in the

said court and show cause as aforesaid at a day not less than fortyfive days nor more than sixty days from the first publication of
said notice.

The notice shall contain a brief statement of the substance of
the petition, and of the copy attached to it, and shall be published
once each week for four successive weeks in a newspaper published in the county in which the proceedings are taken. It
shall also be served as other legal process is served upon all persons within the jurisdiction of the court.

1535. Proceedings and judgment.—Answers filed by persons

' appearing in obedience to the notices aforesaid, shall be sworn to,

and shall be filed upon the day fixed for appearance. All issues
of law or fact shall be determined by the court, and evidence
shall be by affidavit, or in writing before an examiner to be appointed by the court, or orally before the court, as the court may
determine. Upon the hearing the court may deny the prayer of
the petition, or may grant the same, or may re-establish the paper,
record or file in such form as the law and the evidence may justify. No application for re-establishment shall be granted without proof of the material matters set forth in the petition or by
written consent of the person or persons adversely interested.

Judgment may be vacated or modified at same term.—Hart’s extrs. v. Smith,
17 Fla., 767. \Vhat defense to re-establishment not permissible.—Commissioners
Suwannee County v. Commissioners Columbia County.—18 Fla., 78.

ARTICLE 3.

ADOPTION OF CHILDREN.

1536. Authority conferred.—The judges of the circuit

‘ courts, on the application of any person, shall have full power

and authority to legalize the adoption of any child by any person who may apply therefore.

1537. Notice of petition.-—The person who desires to make
such application shall give four weeks’ notice of the intention to
apply, in a newspaper published in the county of residence of
such person.

1538. The petition.—After giving the notice provided for,
the person desiring to adopt any child shall file a petition to the
judge of the Qircuit court in the circuit in which such person applying resides. Said petition shall contain the age as nearly as
can be ascertained of the child, clearly setting forth the reasons
why the person applying desires to adopt said child, and shall
be sworn to by the petitioner, or by his attorney-at-law, before
some officer authorized by law to administer oaths.

1539. Appointment of guardian ad lit.em.—_-Upon the
filing of said petition, the judge shall appomta guardian pcndenté

lite to represent said minor upon the hearing of said petition.

1540. Hearing, and order.——The judge shall, when the
provisions of this statute have been complied with, after hearing

the ‘said petition, together with such evidence as may be presented, in his discretion, grant an order authorizing the adoption
of the child by the person so complying with the provisions of
this law; and if the order be granted, the same shall he made a
matter of record in said circuit court.

1541. Efect of the order.—~Any child adopted by any
person under the provisions of this law shall be declared the

child and heir at law of the person applying for his adoption.
Nothing in this law shall in any way interfere with any rights
of property belongi11g to the child at the time of the adoption.

ARTICLE 4.

DECLARING TAX ASSE$ME.\"l‘ INVALID.

1542. Procedure and order.—In all cases where assessments are made against any person, body politic or corporate,
and payment of the same shall be refused upon allegation of the
illegality of such assessment, such person, body corporate or politic, may apply to the judge of the circuit court by petition setting forth the alleged illegality, and present the same together
with the evidence to sustain it, and the judge shall decide upon
the same, and if found to be illegal shall declare the assessment
not lawfully made.

Petition must show existing illegality at time of iiling.—Pensacola v. Bell,
22 F|a.,-166. Part of assessment may be declared lawful and part unlawful.Pensacola v. L. & N. R. R. Co., 21 F 1a., 492, overruling, Basnett v. Jacksonville, 19 Fla., 664. Lies only to correct illegal assessment and not discretionary
actof county commissioners.—Shear v. County Commissioners, 14 Fla., 146.

ARTICLE 5.

CHA‘.\'GI.\'G NAME OF PERSON.

1543. Procedure.—The circuit courts of this State shall have
power and authority to change the names of persons residing in
this State, upon a petition filed by such persons in any circuit
court. Such petition shall state the name of the petitioner, and
the name such petitioner desires to take; and the court shall decree that the petitioner’s name be changed to the name which said
petitioner desires, by which the said petitioner shall ever thereafter be known.

ARTICLE 6.

EXERCISE OF‘ RIGHT OF EMINENT DOMAIN.

1544. Mode of instituting proceedings. —In all cases
where the right to take private property for public use without
the consent of the owner has been heretofore or shall be hereafter conferred by the Constitution, general law or special charter upon any State, county or municipal authority, public body,
officer, agent or commission, or upon any corporation, it, he or
they having such right may file a petition in the office of the
clerk of the circuit court of the county wherein the property lies,
which petition shall set forth:

1. The authority under which the petitioner claims the right
to take the property for public use. .

2. A description as accurate as may be of the property sought
to be taken. .

3. The names of the occupants of the property, and the
names, places of residence, legal disabilities (if any) and the interests of all owners and mortgagees if the same by diligent
search and inquiry can be ascertaincd.

4. The purpose of the taking, and that the property is necessary for that purpose.

5. If the petitioner be a corporation seeking to obtain a right
of way, that it has located its line and intends in good faith to
construct the same over the property; and if the petitioner be a
municipal corporation seeking to alter, extend and open a street,
lane or avenue, that the said improvement has been ordered by
the proper municipal authority.

Fla Trespasser may exercise right.—State ex. rel. y. J ., T. & K. W. R. R. Co., 20
., 616.

1545. Parties defendant.—If any interest in the property, or
any lien thereon, belong to the unsettled estate of a decedent, the

executor or administrator shall be made the party defendant with
respect to such interest without joining the devisee or heir, and
if a trust estate, the trustee shall be made the defendant without
joining the ccstu.-i que trust. No married woman shall be made a
party defendant with respect to any inchoate right of dower. No
judgment creditor or other lienor (except mortgagees as aforesaid)
need be made parties defendant by the petitioner.

1546. Ailidavit and prayer of petition.—The petition shall
be verified by the oath of the petitioner. If the petitioner be a

municipal corporation the oath shall be made by the mayor; and
if a private corporation, by the president or some other executive
officer. There shall be annexed an affidavit by the same afhant,
that diligent search and inquiry has been made by the petitioner
to ascertain the names, places of residence, legal disabilities (if
any) and interests of the owners and mortgagees of the property,
and that these as ascertained are set forth in the petition. The
prayer shall be thatthe property described in the petition may
be condemned for the uses and purposes set forth therein.

1547. Process, service and publica.tion.——When the petition
is filed the clerk shall issue a writ or writs of scire faeias directed

to the sheriff or sheriffs of the county or counties wherein the defendants or any of them reside, as alleged, commanding him or
them that he or they make known to the defendants that they be
and appear in the said circuit court on the second rule day after
the issuing of the writ, to show what interest they have in the
property, and to show cause why it should not be taken for the
uses and purposes set forth in the petition, which writs shall be
served by the proper sheriffs in the same manner as writs of summons are served. Alias and pluries writs may be issued as in
other cases, returnable, however, as writs of summons are returnable. If any defendant be alleged to be a non-resident of the
State, the clerk shall within two days of issuing the writ of scire
fac-ias mail a certified copy of such writ to such defendant at his
place of residence as named in the petition, which mode of service shall be as effectual as though the defendant had‘ been actually served within this State, and the clerk shall file a certificate
of such constructive service of record in the cause. If the residence of any defendant be given as unknown he shall be held
served by the notice of publication providedin this section. After
issuing the writ the clerk shall in every case forthwith publish
in some newspaper published in the county, once a week for as
many weeks as may be until the return day, a notice directed to
all persons interested in, or having liens upon, the property, in
the same terms as the writ of scirc faeias, to appear and show
cause or else to be barred, and the clerk shall file a certificate of
the publication of record in the cause. All persons not appearing and answering on the return day, whether under disabilities
or not, shall be bound by the proceedings, and defaults may be
entered against them, but nothing shall prevent any poison who
is shown by the record to be interested in the property from appearing before the viewers to claim the amount of compensation
that he conceives to be due for the property. Defaults may be
opened by the judge before the next rule day, for good cause
shown. .

1548. Intervention.—Any person interested in, or having a
lien upon the property, not made a party, may become a party
as of course by filing his petition of intervention setting forth
under oath his interest before the return day, or afterward by
order of the judge.

1549. Appointment of viewers and proceedings before
1;hem,—If no cause be shown to the contrary, the clerk at any

time after the return day, on either party’s application made
after due notice, shall appoint, in writing, three disinterested
residents of the county as viewers to view the premises and to ascertain what compensation, irrespective of any benefit from any
improvement proposed by the petitioner, shall be made to the
defendant. Before entering upon their duties the reviewers shall
take and subscribe an oath that they will without partiality perform their duties to the best of their ability, which oath shall be
returned with their report. In case of the disability or refusal to

act of any of the reviewers, the clerk may appoint another or
others. They shall hold a meeting within ten days after their
appointment, having given three days previous notice thereof to
the parties who have appeared, and may then hold adjourned
meetings without further notice. They shall in all cases view
the premises and hear the allegations of the parties, and shall file
their report in the clerk’s office within three weeks after their
appointment; the report shall conform to the requirements hereafter made for a verdict of a jury. Five days’ notice of intention to file the report shall be given to all parties who have
appeared before the viewers.

1550. Demand for jury.—Any party who has so appeared
before the viewers may, within five days after the filing of the
report, file in writing his demand for a jury, and the cause, as to
such party, shall be tried as hereafter provided. Any party who
has not appeared before the viewers shall be bound by their report. If no such demand be filed, the court shall confirm the
report and enter judgment as hereinafter prescribed, and the proceedings thereafter shall be according to the provisions made for
those after a jury trial is had.

1551. Jury trial.—When demand for jury is filed the cause
shall be tried at the current term, if there be one, or, if not, at the
next term thereafter, when a jury of twelve men shall be empaneled to try what compensation shall be made to the defendants
for the property sought to be appropriated, irrespective of any
benefit from any improvement proposed by the petitioner, which
issue shall be tried in the same manner as other issues of fact are
tried in the said circuit court. The jury shall in all cases view
the property, unless the parties interested in the issue consent to
dispense with the view. The judge may, in his discretion, try
any such cause in vacation in the county, and may make all necessary orders for procuring a jury. If the jury cannot agree another jury may be empaneled forthwith.

1552. Amendments, etc.—The court shall have full power to
order or grant amendments, and to make all orders necessary to

the justice of the cause, and alsoto grant new trials.

1553. Verdict.——The verdict of the jury shall state: 1. An
accurate description of the property taken. 2. The compensation to he made therefore. 3. The amount of such compensation
to which each owner is entitled.

1554. Judgment.-—'—T he judgment shall recite the verdict in
full, and shall be that the property therein described be appropriated to the petitioner for the uses alleged in the petition, upon
the petitioner paying or securing by (l(‘[)OSltoOf money the compensation found by the verdict of the jury.

1555. Payment into court and conditions of entry.—'l‘he petitioner within ten days after the rendition ofjudgment shall pay

into court for the use of the defendant, the compensation ascertained by the viewers or by the jury, or else the proceedings shall

be null and void, unless further time be allowed by the court.
Upon such payment, and upon the recording in the registry. of
deeds of the judgment with the clerk’s certificate that the compensation has been paid into court, the petitioner shall have full
and lawful authority to enter upon and appropriate the property
for the uses aforesaid, with the same effect as though the petitioner
held the same by deed or grant from the defendant.

When compensation to be made.—Moody v. J., '1‘. & K. W. R. R. Co., 20
Fla., 597.

1556. Writ of error.—Any party aggrieved by the final
judgment of the court may have a writ of error as in common

law cases, but such writ of error shall in no case operate as a
supersedcas where the petitioner has paid the amount of compensation into court as aforesaid, so as to prevent a petitioner’s appropriation of the property pending the proceedings in error. If
at any time after writ of error taken by any defendant he shall
take out of court the amount found to be due him, the writ‘ of
error shall be dismissed in the supreme court upon the certificate
of the clerk of the circuit court that the defendant has taken out
the compensation aforesaid.

1557. Writs of assistance and attachment for contempt.
—Whenever the judge shall be satisfied that any person or persons, whether holding under the defendant or not, are preventing
or obstructing the petitioner from entering upon or taking possession of the property after the petitioner is entitled to do so, he
may grant such writs of assistance as he may think necessary, or
he may proceed by attachment as for contempt of court.

1558. Oost.s.—All costs of proceedings shall be paid by
the petitioner except the costs accruing on a jury trial when the
verdict of the jury is not greater than the compensation awarded
by the viewers, and except the costs upon a writ of error taken
by a defendant on which the judgment of the circuit court shall
be affirmed. The viewers shall each be entitled to three dollars
for each day necessarily spent in fulfilling their duties.

1559. Proceedings when petitioner is in possession.—In
any case where the petitioner shall not have acquired title to any

lands which the petitioner is using, or if at any time after an
attempt to acquire title by condemnation proceedings of otherwise, it shall be found that the titles so acquired are defective,
the petitioner may proceed, under this article, to acquire or perfect such titles. .

1560. Right of way across railroad, etc.-—Whenever land
sought to be condemned to the use of a railroad or canal

company is in the possession under any law of this State or another railroad or canal company which is using the same in the
construction or operation of its railroad or canal, the use of no
more land than is necessary to furnish to the petitioner a right
of way one hundred and five feet in width across such railroad
or canal shall be condemned to such use.

1561. Right of way over railroad 1anus.—If it shall be
necessary for any railroad company organized under any law of

this State to use for the purposes of its road any lands over which
any other railroad company shall have previously acquired the
right of way for its road, the right to use such lands may be acquired as in other cases. Such land shall not be taken in a
manner to interfere with the main track of the railroad first
established, except for crossing as provided by law. >

1562. When consent of municipality required.—Whenever the use of any street, square or public way,‘ or any part.

thereof within any incorporated city or town or provisional municipality is required by any corporation for public use the right
to use such street,’ square or public way, or any part thereof,
shall be granted only by the mayor and board of aldermen of
such city or town, or by the commissioners of such provisional
municipality.

1563. Mode of exercising constitutional right of drainage.
—The right of drainage given by Article XVI, section twentyeight of the Constitution, shall be exercised in the manner prescribed for acquiring private property for public use as nearly as
may be.

1564. Extent of ta.king,—The right obtained by the petitioner under the_provisions of this article shall be a right only

to use the property taken for the purposes specified, and shallbe
held to create an easement, and not a fee simple, in the property
taken.

State’s power to exercise and delegate right of eminent domain discussed.Moody V. J. T. & K. W. R. R. Co., 20 Fla., 597. Legislature must authorize and
prescribe method.-—lb.

CHAPTER XII.

ITS COURT COMMISSIONERS.

Appointment of. Section . . . . . . . .' . . . . . . . . . . .1565

Proceedings before. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . _ . . . . . 1568
Effect and record of orders. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1567
Power to administer oaths in. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . ._1568
Compensation of. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1569
Costs in cases before. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . -. . 1570

1565. Appointment of.—The appointment of court commissioners shall be made in writing, signed by the judge, and recorded in the book of minutes of the court in the county Where the
commissioner resides, and the commissioner must file his oath of
office with the clerk of the circuit court of said county.

1566. Proceedings before.—-Proceedings before a court commissioner shall be in like manner and under the same rules and

regulations as are provided by law for such_ proceedings before a
circuit judge. After rendering his decision in writing 111 any

proceeding before him, he shall immediately file all the papers in

the case in the clerk’s office. .

1567. Effect, and record of orders.——The orders of court commissioners shall be of like force as if allowed by the judge, and
the same may, on motion, be confirmed, qualified, or set aside by
the circuit judge, of which motion such notice must be given as
the judge may deem sufficient. '

1568. Power to administer oa.ths.—Court commissioners are
empowered to administer oaths in causes before them.

1569. Compensation of.—-The fees and compensation of court
commissioners shall be as follows:

For attendance upon hearing (each) case, each day . . . . $5 00
Habca.9corpus,issuingwritof. . ... '. . . . ... . . . 1 00
Injunction (examining bill and), allowing or disallowing . 5 O0
Testimony, taking, in cases before him, like fees as are allowed other officers for like services.
Writing, and filing papers, or making copies, like fees as
are allowed other officers for like services.

1570, Gosts.—Costs in injunction cases shall be paid by the
party applying for the writ, and shall be taxed in the bill of
costs.

Costs in cases of habeas corpus shall be paid by the party applying for writ in case he shall not be discharged from the arrest
and imprisonment complained of, and the clerk of the circuit
court shall, upon demand of the commissioner, issue execution
therefore; but if the party shall prove to the satisfaction of the
court commissioner that he has not property or means sufficient to
pay said costs, said commissioner shall so certify, and such costs
shall be paid by the county in which said proceedings are had.
If said petitioner shall be discharged, the said costs shall be paid
by said county.

CHAPTER XIII.

NECESSARY ARTICLES FOR ITS USE.

1571.—To be procured by the sheriff, when and how: See section 1398.

TITLE IV.

OF PROVISIONS APPLICABLE ONLY TO COUNTY COURTS.

(In their civil jurisdiction.)

Jurisdiction. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1572

Terms. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I573

Clerk. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5. . . 1574

Sheriff. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1575

Seal. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1576

Records. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1577

Appeals de novo to. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1578

Rules of practice. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1579
General provisions regulating proceedings in. Section . . . 1580

1572. Jurisdiction.1. GENERALLY.-—Tl'le county courts shall have jurisdiction of
all cases at law where the demand or value of the property in
question does not exceed five hundred dollars, and of proceedings
in relation to forcible entry and unlawful detention of lands, and
of proceedings for the removal of delinquent tenants; to hear,
try and determine appeals or writs of error from justices of the

peace.

2. OF SPECIAL STATUTORY PRoc1:EDINGs.—Said courts shall
have jurisdiction of all the special statutory proceedings mentioned in Title VII, Second Division of this revision,to-wit: Attachment,’ garnishment, forcible entry and detainer, replevin, enforcement of liens, and proceedings between landlord and tenant. The
proceedings in such cases shall be as provided for in said title.

1573. Terms.—The county courts shall hold four terms in
each year in their respective counties, at the court-house of the
county for which said court is held, and at such time as may be
prescribed by law creating or establishing such court.

1574. Olerk.—The clerk of the circuit court, in counties in
which there is no criminal court of record established, shall be
clerk of the county court, and shall hold his oflicc at the office
of the cgerk of the circuit court; in counties where a criminal court
of rc_cor is established, the clerk of said criminal court shall be
the clerk of the county court, and shall hold his office in the
county court-house.

Such clerk of the county court shall sign all papers required
to be signed pertaining to said county court as “county clerk.”

1575. Sheriff.—The sheriff of the county shall serve and execute all civil process, and do and perform all duties in and about
county courts which are required to be performed by an executive officer.

1576. 8ea.l.—The seal of the county court shall be provided,
approved, paid for, and an impression thereof deposited as are
seals of the circuit court.  section 1400.) In case of the
loss or destruction of such seal, the private seal of the clerk shall
suffice until an official seal is provided.

1577. Records.—The clerk shall keep for each (county court
minute books, bench dockets, bar and motion dockets and judgment and execution dockets, which shall be kept in the same
manner as such dockets are kept for the circuit courts.

1578. Appeals de novo, to.—When cases appealed to the
county court shall be tried de now, all the original papers and

pleadings shall be transferred by the justice of the peace appealed
from to the county court, and the said court shall proceed to

hear, try and determine the same, in the same manner as if the

said cause had been commenced in such court, and render final
judgment therein.

1579.\Rnles of pra.ctice.—The rules of pleading and practice
adopted by the supreme court for the government of the circuit

courts shall be the rules of.practice, pleading and procedure in
civil causes for the county courts, so far as applicable and not
otherwise provided for.

1580. General provisions.—Al1 the provisions of Title I,
Second Division of this revision, which can be applied to the
county courts, or to any proceeding therein, or to any officer
thereof, shall be applicable thereto in all cases except where they
are expressly or impliedly restricted to courts other than the
county courts, and except where they are inconsistent with the
provisions of this title.

TITLE V.

OF PROVISIONS APPLICABLE ONLY TO COUNTY JUDGES’ COURTS.

(In their civil jurisdiction.)

ARTICLE 1.-—General provisions.

General powers. Section . . . . . . . . . . 1581
Bond. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ‘ 1532
Clerk. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1583
Seal. Section . . . . . .' . . . . . . . . . 1584 '

PROVISIONS RELATING TO

2.—As judge of probate. Sections . . . . . . . 1585-1592
3.—As justice of the peace. Sections . . . . . . 1593-1596
4.—In jurisdiction of forcible entry and unlawful
detainer. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . 1597
ARTICLE 1.

GENERAL PROVISIONS.

1581. General powers.—County udges’ courts shall be courts
of record, and county judges shall have authority to make all
orders or decrees, and to issue every and all process necessary to
maintain and carry out their constitutional jurisdiction, or to enforce their authority, and to enter and enforce their judgments and
decrees in all matters wherein they have jurisdiction.

No jurisdiction to enter judgment in excess of his civil jurisdiction.—Simpson v. Gonzalez, 15 Fla., 9.

1582. Bond.—Each county judge shall give bond in a sum
to be fixed by the board of county commissioners of his county,
which shall not be less than one thousand dollars nor more than
five thousand dollars. Such bond shall be otherwise governed by
the provisions governing bonds to be given by clerks of the circuit
courts. (See section 1381 at seq.)

Said bond may be sued upon from time to time, in the name
of the governor, for the use of any person interested or aggrieved.

1583. Olerk.—Every county judge shall have power to appoint a clerk of his court, and the said clerk shall be paid by the
said judge, and may exercise all non-judicial functions which the
judge may perform.

1584. Sea.1.—The seal of the county judge shall be provided,
approved, paid for, and an impression thereof deposited as are
seals of the circuit court. In case of the loss or destruction of
such seal, his private seal shall suffice until an official seal be
provided. The use heretofore of the seal of county courts by
county judges is validated.

ARTICLE 2.

PROVISIONS RELATING TO HIM AS PROBATE J UDGE.

Jurisdiction. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1585

Terms. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ._ . 1586

Process. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1587

Pleadings. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1588

Records. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1589

Substitution of judge circuit court for. Section . . . . . . 1590

Appeals. Section . . . . . . . . . . - . . . . . . . . . 1591

Fees. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1592

. 1585. Jurisdiction.-—The county judge shall have jurisdiction
of the settlement of estates of decedents and minors; to order
the sale of real estate of decedents and minors ; to take probate
of wills; to grant letters testamentary or administration, and of
guardianship, and to discharge the duties usually pertaining to
courts of probate.

1586. Terms.—-The court of the county judge as a court of
probate shall be open at all times for the transaction of its business.

1587. Process.—In all matters appertaining to the probate
jurisdiction of the county judge, where process is necessary, and
which are not matters grantable of course upon motion, such
original process shall be made returnable at any time after fifteen days from the day of its date, and shall be served as is by
law provided for the service of writs in the circuit court at least
ten days before the day of its return, at which time the parties
defendant shall be held to file their defenses, and the cause shall
be heard at such time as the court shall direct; but in all cases a
cause may be heard by consent at any time. ‘

1588. Plea.ding's.—The pleadings before the county judge sitting as a court of probate shall be in writing.

1. THE C0.\IPLAIN'l‘.—-The complaint shall state in a plain,
direct and concise manner the facts constituting the ground of
proceedings, and shall pray such relief as desired, and shall be
filed in every instance before any process shall be issued.

Complaint not jurisdictional to appointment of admr.—Robinson v. Epping,
24 Fla., 2237.

2. THE ANSWER on DE.\IURRER.—-The answer shall, in a
direct and concise manner, set, up the facts constituting the defense. Either party may demur to the pleading of his adversary, or any part thereof, when it is not sutiiciently (ixplicit to
enable him to understand it, or contains no cause of action or
defense, if true. Should the party file a demurrer to the complaint, instead of answering upon the day the summons is returnable, the court shall dispose of the demurrer at once, and unless
the court is entirely satisfied that justice will be otherwise done,
no longer time shall be given.

Upon filing the answer the cause shall be at "issue, and the
proof shall be taken in such manner as may be prescribed by the
judge, and the cause shall be heard at such time as the court
may direct.

1589. Records.1. ITS owx nECoRns.—Every county judge shall record,
or cause his clerk to record, in a book or books to be kept
for that purpose, distinctly and at full length, all wills, testaments and codicils proved before him and the proof thereof, all
letters testamentary and of administration, all accounts of executors and administrators settled before him, all orders and decrees
made by him in relation to such estates, the appointment of, the
accounts rendered by, guardians and settled by him, orders and
decrees for the sale of minors’ real estate, all orders and decrees
for the assignment or admeasurement of dower, and all other
orders or decrees; to every such book or books he shall keep an
index of the subjects therein, which, together with such book or
books, shall be open to the inspection of any person under his
supervision.

2. RECORDS or FORMER COURTS.—-All records, judgments and
orders of any court in this State heretofore exercising the powers
of probate courts shall be taken and held to be the records, judgments and orders of the county judge, subject to the like amendment, enforcement and execution, as though the same had been
made and rendered by the county judge.

1590. Substitution of judge of circuit court for.1. WHEN TO BE sU13s'rITUTED.—The judge of the circuit court,
in case of the disqualification, absence, sickness, or other disability of a county judge, is authorized to discharge all the duties
appertaining to said judge in regard to the probate of wills, granting letters testamentary and letters of administration, appointing
curators and guardians, and making all necessary orders in

regard to the custody, preservation, or sale of the estates of deceased persons.

2. NOTIFICATION or DISQUALIFICATION.——Tl1e county judge
when disqualified shall notify the judge of the circuit court of his
county of such disqualification; and in no instance shall any
county judge act in any matters in which he is interested, and
should he presume so to do, his acts shall be null and void.

3. COUNTY JUDGE To MAKE SETTLEMENTS WITH CIRCUIT
JUDeE.—'l‘he county judge shall, when he is executor, administrator, or guardian, make his settlements as such with the judge
of the circuit court of his county, in the same manner and form
as other ‘executors, administrators, or guardians are required by
law to make their settlements with the county judge.

1591. Appea.ls,—F or appeals from the county judge as a
court of probate see sections 1280 and 1281.

1592. Fees.——The fees of the county judge as‘ judge of probate
shall be as follows:

For affidavit, writing and taking 100 words or less . . . $0 ‘.25

For every additional 100 words . . . . . . . . . 15
Administering oath . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Bond,drawing orapproving . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 O0

Certificates with seal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Citation, issuing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Decree or judgment, entering . . . . . . . . . . 75

Filing any paper required to be filed: . . . . . . . . 05
Letters issuingOf administration 3 00
Of curatorship 3 00
Of executorship . . 3 00
Of Guardianship . 3 00
Rule, granting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 150
Search of one year’s standing, or less . . . . . . . .- . 10
For more than one year’s standing . . . . . . . . 20
Settlements of administrators or guardians . . . . . 2 O0
\Varrant of appraisement, issuing . . . . . . . . . . 50
Writing, drawing or recording any document not herein
provided for, of 100 words, or less . . . . . . . . _ 15
For every additional 100 words, or less . . . . . 10

For all other services same fees as circuit court clerk.

ARTICLE 3.

PROVISIONS RELATING TO HIM AS Jb'S'!'ICE OF‘ THE PEACE.

1593. Jurisdiction.——'[‘he count_v judge shall have original
jurisdiction in all cases at law in which the demand or value of
the property involved shall not exceed one hundred dollars. His
territorial jurisdiction shall extend throughout the county.

1594. Powers,-practice and pleadings.—In all civil matters,
his powers, terms and duties shall he the same as those of a justice of the peace, and the rules of practiceand pleading in his
court, and in appellate proceedings therefrom, shall be the same
as those established by law for justices of the peace courts.

1595. Records.—-Such judge shall keep sepirate dockcts for
all causes brought b store him in his jurisdiction concurrent with
that of a justice of the peace.

1596. Compensation.-—He shall receive the same -for like
services as are allowed by law to justices of the peace.

ARTICLE 4.

PROVISIONS RELATING TO HIS JURISDICTION IN CASES OF FORCIBLE ENTRY AND
UNLAWFUL DE'I‘EN'l‘XON OF LANDS.

1597. Jurisd.iction.——The county judge shall have jurisdiction of proceedings relating to forcible entry and unlawful detention of lands, and this shall include actions of forcible entry
and unlawful detainer, and proceedings against delinquent
tenants.

TITLE VI.

OF PROVISIONS APPLICABLE ONLY TO COURTS OF JUSTICE8 OF
THE PEACE.

(In their civil jurisdiction.)

General provisions respecting. Section . . . . . . . 1598

Oath. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1599

Bond. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1600

Seal. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1601

Districts. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1602-1605

Terms. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . - 1606

Rule days. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1607

Dockets. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1608

Jurisdiction. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1609-1611

Proceedings before trial. Sections . . . . . . . . . 1612-1619

Proceedings at and after trial. Sections . . . . . . . 1620-1626

Foreclosure of mortgages. Section . . . . . . . . . 1627

Removal of justice. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . 1628

Transfer to successor. Section . . . . . . . . . . . 1629

Costs and fees. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1630

Appellate proceedings from. Sections . . . . . . . . 1631-1633

Forms. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1634

1598. General provisions respecting.—A11 the provisions of
Title 1, Second Division of this revision, which can be applied to courts of justices of the peace, or to any proceeding therein,
or to any officer thereof, shall be applicable thereto in all cases
except when they are expressly or impliedly restricted to courts
other than justices of the peace courts, and except when they are
inconsistent with the provisions of this title.

1599. Oaths.—-Each and every justice of the peace shall, before he enters upon the dutics of his office, take and subscribe an
oath to faithfully perform the duties of his office, and shall file
the same with the clerk of the circuit court.

1600. Bond.—Each justice of the peace shall give bond in
the sum of five hundred dollars, which shall be governed by the
provisions governing bonds to be given by the clerk of the circuit
court (sections 1381 to 1383).

1601. Sea.l.—Each justice of the peace shall provide himself
with a seal, upon which shall be impressed around the margin
the words, “State of Florida, county,” and in the center
“ (number) Justice’s District,” and it shall have nothing else
thereon. 1602. Number districts and bounda.ries.—The board of
county commissioners of each county shall divide their respective

counties into as many justice districts, not less than two, as they
may deem necessary, and as near as practicable the limits of said
districts shall be co-extensive with the limits of one or more election districts of the respective counties.

1603. Evidence of.—-The boundaries or limits of the said
justice districts, so laid off and established, shall be spread upon
the minutes of the county commissioners, and such minutes shall
be conclusive evidence thereof.

1604. Enlargement of.—-In all counties where there shall be
any justice of the peace district in and for which no justice of the
peace shall be elected, qualified or commissioned, the county
commissioners of such county shall attach the territory of such
justice of the peace district to the territory of some adjacent justice of the peace district which has a justice of the peace, and
make it a part thereof by an order to be recorded in the minutes of
the proceedings of such county commissioners, which territory shall
thereafter, unless otherwise ordered by the board of county commissioners, be considered as part of the j ustice’s district to which
it has been attached; a copy of which order shall be posted at
the court-house of the county.

1605. Alteration of.-—If any new district be made, so that
the boundaries of a district or districts existing at the time
shall be abolished, or if any district shall be abolished, the county commissioners, at the time of such abolition or obliteration, shall designate the district in which shall preside the justice who shall be successor to the justice presiding in the obliterated or abolished district or districts.

1606. Terms.——Every justice shall hold a term of his court
once each month, beginning on the third Monday of each
month, at such place in his district as he may designate. Such
court may continue in session from day to day until the cases
shall have been disposed of by trial, continuance, or dismissal.

1607. Rule days.-—The first and third Mondays of each
month shall be rule days.

1608. Docket.—Every justice of the peace shall keep a docket
book, in which he shall make fair and accurate entries of all
causes brought before him, and a minute of all the proceedings,
including the service and return of process, the appearance of

such parties as may appear, the fact of trial, whether by the
court or jury, the verdict of the jury or finding by the justice, the
judgment, including damages and costs separately stated, the issuing of execution and to whom issued, with the date thereof and
the return thereon, and a marginal memorandum of the items of
all costs, including justice’s fees. sheriff’s or constable’s fees, and
witnesses’ fees; which docket, or a certified copy thereof, shall be
evidence of the matters therein stated.

JURISDICPIT N.

Jurisdiction. S«c'ions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1(09,l"~10
No jurisdiction. Secticn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ltll

JURISDICTION’.

. 1609. In counties where no county court.—In counties where
no county court is organized, justices of the peace shall have
jurisdiction in the following actions:

1. In actions arising on contracts for the recovery of money
only where the sum demanded does not exceed one hundred dollars.

2. In actions for damages for injury to rights pertaining to
the person, or to personal or real property, when the damages
claimed do not exceed one hundred dollars.

3. In actions for penalties not exceeding one hundred dollars.

4. In actions upon bonds conditioned for the payment of
money not exceeding one hundred dollars, though the penalty
exceeds that sum, the judgment to be given for the sum actually
due. When the payments are to be made by installments, an
action may be brought for each installment as it becomes due,
when the installments do not exceed one hundred dollars each.

5. In actions upon judgments rendered in courts of justices of
the peace, or by justices or other inferior courts in cities; but no
such action shall be brought in the same county within five years
after the rendition of the judgment, except where the docket ‘or
record of such judgment shall be lost or destroyed.

6. To take and enter judgment on the confession of the defendant, when the amount confessed does not exceed one hundred
dollars, exclusive of costs.

7. In actions for damages for fraud on sale, purchase or exchange of personal property where the damages claimed do not
exceed one hundred dollars.

8. Of proceedings in attachment, garnishment, replevin, enforcemcnt of liens and distress for rent when the amount or property involved does not exceed in value one hundred dollars.

The proceedings in all such cases shall be as provided in
Title VII, Second Division of this revision.

9. To foreclose mortgages and enforce liens when the debt
secured does not exceed one hundred dollars.

1610. Jurisdiction in counties where there is a county court.
—In counties in which there may be organized a county court,

justices of the peace shall have jurisdiction in all the classes of
cases set forth in the preceding section, when the amount or property involved shall not exceed in val_ue fifty dollars.

1611. No jurisd.iction.—No justice of the peace shall have
jurisdiction of a civil action :

1. In which the State is a party, excepting for penalties not
exceeding one hundred dollars, or fifty dollars, as there may or
may not be a county court in the county.

2. Nor where the title to or boundaries of real estate shall
come into question. If it appear on the trial that title to or
boundary of real estate is in question, and such title or boundary shall be disputed by the defendant, the justice shall dismiss
the action and render judgment against the plaintifff for the
costs.

3. Nor of a civil action for false imprisonment, libel, slander,
malicious prosecution, criminal conversation or seduction. °

PROCEEDINGS BEFORE TRIAL.

Commencement of suits. Sections . . . . . . . . . . 1612-1614

Transfer of causes._ Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1615

Pleadings. Section . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . 1616

Offer to confess judgment. Section . . . . . . . . . 1617

Depositions upon continuance. Section . . . . . . . 1618

Procurement of evidence. Section . . . . . . . . . . 1619

COMMENCEMENT OF SUITS.

1612. Summons.—'EV'ery civil suit shall (unless otherwise
specially provided for) be commenced by a summons issued by
the justice.

1613. Service of summons.~—The summons shall be served by
the sheriff, or constable, or if neither can be conveniently found,
by a person specially appointed in writing by the justice for that

PI] l'pOS8.

1614. Ret11rn.—Proof of service may be made by affidavit of

the person making the service, or by return of the officer, signed
by him, with the addition of his official title.

1615. Transfer of ca.uses.—In all cases, if on the return day
of process the defendant shall make oath in writing -that from
prejudice (or other cause to be stated) he verily believes the justice will not decide impartially in the matter; or before trial either
party shall state on oath that the justice, or some member of his
family, is a material witness in the cause; or if it appear at any
time that the justice is near of kin to either party, then, and in
either of such cases, the justice shall enter the facts as stated in

his (locket, and shall make and certify a copy of his docket, and

transmit such copy with all the papers in the cause forthwith to
the county judge, or another justice qualified to try the cause, residing nearest to him in the same county, who shall proceed to
hear.and determine the cause as though the same had been commenced before him; and the costs of the justice who issued the
process shall be included in the judgment for costs, unless the
failing party shallthave paid the same before judgment. The
judge orjustice to whom the cause is transmitted shall, before
proceeding, either personally or in writing, notify the parties when
and where he will be ready to hear the same.

1616. Plea.dings.—No particular form of pleadings shall be
required, but the plaintifff shall state in writing his cause of action, and the defendant his defenses, in writing, in a plain and"

direct manner, in such a way that any person of common understanding may know what is intended. Either party may demur
to the pleading of his adversary, or any part thereof, when it is
not sufficiently plain to enable him to understand it, or when it
contains no cause of action or defense sufficient in law.

1617. Offer to confess judgment.—The defendant may, before answering, make an offer to allow judgment to be taken

against him for an amount to be stated in such offer, with costs.
The plaintifff shall thereupon, and before any proceedings shall
be had in the action, determine whether he will accept or reject
such offer. If he accept the offer and give notice thereof to the
justice, the justice shall note the offer and the acceptance thereof,
and render judgment accordingly. If notice of acceptance be not
given, and if the plaintifff fail to obtain judgment for a greater
amount, exclusive of costs, than has been specified in the offer,
he shall not recover costs, but shall pay to the defendant his costs
accruing subsequent to the offer.

1618. Deposition upon continua.nce.~On application for the
adjourmnent or continuance of a cause, the depositions of such

witnesses as may be in attendance may be taken by the justice,
at the request of either party, and such deposition, signed by the
witness and attested by the justice, shall be filed and may be
used by either party on the trial, as if such testimony were given
at the trial.

1619. Procurement of evidence.—Every justice of the peace
shall have the right to issue subpaenas for witnesses, and commissions to take testimony upon interrogatories.
The fine against a witness for non-attendance in a justice’s
court shall not exceed twenty dollars.

PROCEEDINGS AT AND AFTER TRIAL.

Manner of trial. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1620

The jury. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1621

Verdict and judgment. Section . . . . . . .' . . . . . . . 1622

Judgment upon confession. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . 1623

Docketing judgment in circuit court. Section . . . . . . . 1624

New trials.- Section . . . . . . . .- . . . . . . . . . . . 1625

Executions. Section . . . .' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1626

1620. Manner of tria.l.—Every trial shall be before the justice without a jury, unless, in cases involving more than five dollars, either party shall demand a jury. At the time of making
such demand the party making it shall deposit with the justice
three dollars to be used in paying t.he jury, and the said sum
shall be taxed as costs.

1621. The jury.1. PROCUREMENT o1-‘.—When a jury is required as aforesaid,
it shall be the duty of the justice of the peace to direct the officer,
by a venire under the hand and seal of the justice, forthwith to
summon six disinterested persons who are qualified to be jurors.
They shall be summoned trom the neighborhood of the place as
far as may be, on or before the day appointed for the trial.

2. COMPELLING ATTENDANCE oi-'.—Every person duly summoned to serve as a juror in the court of a justice of the peace
who shall fail to attend said court without a good and sufiicient
excuse, to be judged of by the justice of the peace, shall paya line
of three dollars, and an execution for the amount of the said line
and costs shall be issued against the goods and chattels of such
defaulting juror, to be levied as in other cases of execution, or the
justice may proceed as in cases of contempt.

1622. Verdict and judgment.——When the jury has returned
a verdict in the cause the justice shall enter up judgment thereon

forthwith, agreeably to said verdict.

1623. Judgments upon confession.—Judgment upon confession before a justice of the peace may be entered with or without the service of summons for any indebtedness or for damages,
which confession shall be signed iii the presence of the justice,
and shall show the cause of action or indebtedness for which it is
given, and no writ of error or appeal shall be allowed to the party
confessing the same.

1624. Docketing judgments in circuit court.—A justice of
the peace,-on demand of a party in whose favor he shall have

rendered a judgment, shall give a transcript thereof, which
may be filed and doeketed in the office of the clerk of the circuit
court of the county where the judgment was rendered within
four years after the rendering of such judgment. The time of
the receipt of the transcript by the clerk shall he noted thereon,
and a memorandum of the judgment entered in the (locket of
the circuit court provided for such judgments; and from that
time the judgment shall he a judgment of the circuit court, and
enforced in like manner as other judgments of the circuit court.

No judgment rendered by a justice of the peace shall be a lien
on real estate until a transcript thereof be filed in the office of
the clerk of the circuit court, and doeketed. A certified transcript of such judgment may be filed and doeketed in the clerk's
office of any other county, and with the like effect in every respect as in the county where the judgment was rendered; except
that it shall be a lien only from the time of filing and docketing
the transcript. °

Constitutional.—-Bucki v. Willard, 16 Fla., 330. Can circuit court set. aside
execution issued on such transcript ?—I b.

1625. New tria1s.—;-Justices of the peace shall have power to
grant new trials in cases tried before them.

1626. Executions.]. ON JUSTICE or THE PEACE JUDe.\1EN'rs.—Executions issued
by justices of the peace shall be directed to the sheriff, or any constable, of the county, and shall have full force throughout the
same; and if in any case it shall be necessary to send an execution to some other county to be levied upon the property of the
defendant, it shall be the duty of the plaintifff, or his agent, to
present the same to a justice of the peace or the county judge residing in the county to which the same is carried, and the said
justice or county judge shall endorse thereon an authority to the
sheriff or any constable of the county to levy the same, which
shall possess the same force as if it had been originally issued by
a justice of the peace of said county.

2. Ox JUDGMENTS DOCKETED wrrn TIIE cLERK.—If the judgment be doeketed by the clerk of the circuit court, the execution
shall be issued by him to_ the sheriff of the county and have the
same effect and be executed in the same manner as other executions of the circuit court.

3. SALE or PERSONAL PROPERTY.——Tl1e officer shall be required
to give fifteen days’ notice of the sale of all personal property
levied on by a written or printed advertisement posted in three
or more public placrs in the vicinity of the place of sale, and all
sales of such property shall be made at the justice’s place of holding his court, and the property shall be in full view at the time
of sale, except in the case of ponderous articles, or articles, the
removal of which would create exorbitant cost.

1627. Foreclosure of mortg'ages.—Whenever any person
holds a debt or demand within the jurisdiction of a justice of the
peace, secured by a mortgage or other written lien upon personal
property, he may, upon commencing suit in a justice’s court upon
his debt or demand, file therewith his mortgage or written lien;
and upon recovery of judgment for his debt or demand the same
shall operate as a foreclosure of his mortgage upon the property
therein described, and his lien shall be enforced by execution as
in other cases, except that he shall enforce his judgment against
the property mortgaged or upon which he has a lien, before he
can resort to other property of the defendant.

In suits of this character, the defendant may make his defense upon legal and equitable grounds, and third persons may
interpose claims to the property involved in such suits, as in
other suits.

1628. Removal of justices.—If any justice of the peace of
this State shall, on indictment, be convicted of any offense

against the penal laws of this State, in addition to the sentence
and penalties now imposed by law, said justice shall be removed
from his said office on the conviction aforesaid.

1629. Transfer to successor.—Whenever any justice of the
peace shall resign or be removed from office, or his term of office 5

shall expire, it shall be his duty to turn over to his successor ‘
forthwith all dockets, books, papers and effects in his possession
pertaining to his office, and all proceedings previously com-‘
menced shall continue without interruption; and if any person
so resigning or removed, or whose term of office has expired, shall
willfully fail or refuse to deliver such dockets, books, papers and
effects as aforesaid, he shall be liable to any person injured for '
all damages, costs and expenses occasioned thereby. And when
any justice of the peace shall‘ die, it shall be the duty of his
executor or administrator or other person having the same
in charge to turn over to the successor aforesaid all dockets,
books, papers and effects pertaining to such office; and if
such justice of the peace or such executor or administrator, or
other person, shall not so deliver the same, the clerk of the circuit court shall issue a precept to the sheriff requiring him to
make search for and take possession of such doc-kets, books,
papers and effects, and bring them forthwith to the said clerk’s
office; and it shall be the duty of the sheriff to execute such
precept and make return of his doings thereon.

The clerk upon receipt of such dockets, books, papers, etc.,
shall immediately turn them over to the proper justice of the
peace. All proceedings commenced before the former justice
shall proceed without interruption before his successor; and the
successor shall, on demand of any person entitled thereto, issue
execution upon any judgment remaining unsatisfied upon said
docket, at any time within two years from the rendition of the
judgment.

1630. Costs and fees.1. SECURITY FoR.—Any justice of the peace, in any action or
proceeding before him, may before or after issuing process require
the plaintifff‘ to give security for the costs, and the person becoming security shall sign and leave with the justice a memorandum
to the effect following: “A. B., plaintifff, against C. D., defendant.
“I hereby agree to be security for all costs which may be re“covered against the plaintifff’ in this case.”

Such surety shall be liable to pay all costs that may be recovered against the plaintifff in a civil suit, before the justice or on
appeal or writ of error, and execution therefore may be issued as
well against the surety as against the plaintifff‘.

2. AMOUNT o1=~.—.The fees of a justice of the peace shall be the
same as those of the clerk of the circuit court for similar service.

APPELLATE PROCEEDINGS.

Writs of error. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1631
Certiorari. Section , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1632
Appeals, etc., after death of justice. Section . . . . . . . . 1633

1631. Writs of error.—Writs of error from justice of the
peace courts shall be governed in all respects by the provisions
relating to writs of error in Chapter XXV, Title I, Second Division
of this revision. Bills of exceptions may be taken in accordance
with the practice in the circuit court, and with like effect.

1632. Gert1orar1.—

1. POWER AND L1MI'r.—The clerk of the proper appellate court
shall have power, upon the application of any party before a
justice of the peace, who may be dissatisfied with any judgment
in which he was a party in said jurisdiction, to issue writs of
certiorari to said justice of the peace at any time within six months
after the rendition of the said judgment.

2. SUPERSEDEAS.——Sal(l writs of certiorari shall in no case
operate as a supcrscdcas, unless the party applying for the same,
if the plaintifff in the court below shall first pay all costs which
have accrued in and about said suit, and enter into bond with
one or more 'sureties to be approved by the said clerk, conditioned
for the payment of the costs which may accrue in consequence
of the obtaining of said writ of ccrtaiorrm'.; and if the defendant
in the court below, shall pay all costs which have accrued in and
about said suit, and enter into bond with one or more sureties, to
be approved by the said clerk, conditioned for the payment of
the condemnation money and all damages and costs which may
accrue in consequence of obtaining said writ of ccrtiorari.

If the plaintifff in ccrtiorari succeed he shall recover back the
said costs paid by him and they shall be taxed in the bill of
costs.

CAUSES FOR REVERSAL.—NO judgment of any justice shall be
reversed on certi0ra,7'i when the subject matter shall appear to
have been within the jurisdiction of the justice, when there has
been a regular summons and service thereof, when there shall
have been proper parties, and when proper entries shall have
been made on the justice’s record; nor shall such judgment be
reversed for any cause in law or in fact unless it appear on the
face of such record.

4. ASSIGNMENT or masons, AND TRIAL.-—All cases of ccrttiorari
shall be tried upon the record sent up from the court below; and
in all such cases it shall be the duty of the plaintifff’ in certi.orari
to assign his errors and file them with the clerk of the court on

or before the first day of the term to which the case is made returnable ; and every case brought up as aforesaid shall stand for
trial at the term to which it is returned.

1633. Appeal, etc., upon death, etc., of the justice.~If any
justice of the peace shall die, resign, be removed, or his term shall

expire, after judgment and before appeal, or writ Of error, and
before the time for appealing or taking a writ of error expires,
any party may appeal or take a writ oferror from such judgment
within sixty days after the deposit of the docket and papers of the
said justice with his successor ; and in such-case the appeal or writ
of error may be made and perfected before his successor in the
sameinanner as it might have been before him ; and the successor
shall make a certified copy of the docket, and file the same, together with all the papers or a transcript thereof (if the appellate
proceeding be by writ of error to the circuit court) pertaining to
the case, in the appellate court, and the court may proceed thereon
as though the return had been made by the justice rendering the
judgment.

FORMS.

1634. Forms in civil proceedings.-—fl‘he following forms may
be used in civil proceedings before justices of the peace:

1. SU.\IMO.\'S.

STATE OF FLORIDA,
. . COUNTY.

In the name of the State of Florida. To the sheriff or any
constable of said county:

You are hereby commanded to summon .

. . , to appear before me at . . . . . . . . . . . , on the
.. . . .dayOf ..... . . . .,A.D.18. .,tOanswer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . upon a claim in the
sum of . . . . . . dollars and . cents;

herein to fail ‘not, or judgment will be given ‘against him by default.

Given under my hand and seal, this . . . . . . day Of
. , A. D. 18 . .

- 9

‘Justice. of thelpeace.

2. SUBrOsxA.

STATE OF FLORIDA,
. . COUNTY.

In the name of the State of Florida. To the sheriff or any
constable of said county:

You are hereby required to summon . .

personally to be and appear before me at . .      .' ion
the......dayof...........,A.D.18..,
totestify in behalfof . . . . . . . . . . . . ina suit depending in my said court, wherein. . . . . . . . . . . .
is plaintifff and . . . . . . . . . . . . .is defendant, and

herein to fail not under penalty of the law.

Given under my hand and seal, this . . . day of .
. . A. D. 18 . .

‘Justice. of the Feace.
3. ATTACHMENT AFFIDAVIT.

STATE OF FLORIDA,
. . COUNTY.

Before the subscriber, a justice of the peace in and for said
county, personally came A. B., who, being duly sworn, says that
C. D. is indebted to him, the said A. B., in the sum of . .

............dollarsand..........
cents, and that the same is actually due, and that alfiant has reason to believe that (here state one or more of the grounds mentioned in the law).

Sworn toand subscribed before me this . . .

dayOf............,A.D.18...
. . . . ..Justice.of the ‘Peace.
4. ATTACHMENT BOND.

STATE OF FLORIDA,
. . COUNTY.

Know all men by these presents, that we, A. B., and . . . .
.........and.............arehe1d
and firmly bound unto C. D. iii the sum of. . . . . . . . .
dollars, for -the payment whereof well and truly to be made we
bind ourselves, our heirs, executors and administrators, jointly
and severally, firmly by these presents.
Signed and sealed this. . . . .day of . . .

A. D. 18 . .

The condition of the above obligation is such that Whereas the said A. B. has this day applied for an attachment
against the goods and chattels of C. D., for the sum of . .
. . . . . . .rlollarsand. . . . . . . .cents;now if the
said A. B. shall well and truly pay all costs and damages, the
defendant, the said C. D., may sustain in consequence of plaintifff’s improperly suing out said attachment, then this obligation
to be void ; else to remain in full force and virtue.

Taken before and approved by me . . . . . . . ESeal.
   Seal.
Justice of the Peace. } (Seal.

5. AFFIDAVIT IN REPLEVIN.

STATE OF FLORIDA,

. . . COUNTY. }

A. B. being duly sworn says that he is lawfully entitled to
the possession of the following property, to-wit: (here naming it
as particularly as may be). That said property is detained by
C. D. Within this county, who has the same in his possession.

That said property has not been taken for any tax, fine or assessment levied by virtue of any law of this State, nor seized by
virtue of an execution or attachment against the property of said
A. B. liable to execution. That the actual value of said property is 8 . . . . .
Sworn to and subscribed before me, this . . .
dayof......A.D.18..

llustice ‘of. the ‘Fe-ace.

6. REPLEVIN BOND.
STATE or FLORIDA, }

. . . COUNTY.
Know all men by these presents, that we, A. B. and . . .
............and............are
held and firmly bound unto C. D. in the sum of . . . . dollars,

for the payment whereof well and truly to be made, we bind ourselves, our heirs, executors and administrators, jointly and sev‘ erally, firmly by these presents.

Signed and sealed this . . . day of . . .
A. D. 18 . .

The condition of the above obligation is such that whereas
the said A. B. has this day begun an action of replevin to recover
possession of personal property, to-wit: “One gray horse, etc.,”
of the value of . . . . . . . . . . . . dollars. Now thereforee if the said A. B. shall diligently prosecute the said action
and return the said property to the said O. D. if return thereof
shall be adjudged, and shall pay him such sum as may for any
cause be recovered against said A. B., then this obligation to be
void.

Executed in presence of

. . . . (Seal.
. . _ . seal}
lSeal.)

7. CLAIM AFFIDAVIT.

STATE or FLoRIDA,1
. . COUNTY. I

Before the subscriber, a justice of the peace in and for said
county, personally came . . . . . . . . . . . . , who being
duly sworn, says that the following property, to-wit: .

.......,levieduponby.-............,
sheriff (or constable), in and for said county, by virtue of an execution (or attachment) in favor of

against. . . . . . . . . . . .,.belongstohin.1,the said 
ponent. Sworn to and subscribed before me this . . . . .day
of........A.D.18..

7

‘Justice. of the.Peace.

8. CLAIM BOND.

STATE or FLORIDA,
. . COUNTY.

Know all men by these presents, that we, . . . . . . . .
........and.. .,arehe1dand
f1rmlyboundunto....... ... ... inthesumof
. . . . . . . . . dollars, for the payment whereof well and
truly to be made, we bind ourselves, our heirs, executors and administrators, jointly and severally, firmly by these presents.
Signed and sealed this . . . day of . . . . . . ,
A. D. 18 . .
The condition of this obligation is such, that whereas . . .
. . . .. . . . . ,sheriff (or constable), in and for said county,
has levied upon the following property, to-wit: . . .
by virtue of an execution (or attachment) in favor of . . . - .
. , against . . . . . . . ,and the above bounden
.. . . . . . . . . . . . .,hasinterposed aclaimtosaid
property; now, if the said . . . . . . shall deliver said property upon the demand of said officer, if the same shall be adjudged to be the property of the defendant in execution, and pay
to the plaintifff all damages which the jury on the trial of the
right of property may find in his favor, if it shall appear to the
jury that such cla'm was interposed for the purpose of delay, then
this obligation to be void, else to remain in full force and virtue.

Executed in the presence of

- 2

.  (Seal.)
. . . (Seal.)
. , (Seal.)

9. FORTHCOMING BOND.
STATE or FLORIDA,
. . COUNTY.

Know all men by these presents, that we . . . .
and . . . . . are held and firmly
............inthesumof..........
dollars, for the payment whereof, well and truly to be made, we
bind ourselves, our heirs, executors a.nd administrators, jointly
and severally, firmly by these presents.
Signed and sealed, this . . . . day of . .
A. D. 18 . . .
The condition of this obligation is such that whereas . . .
. . . . . . . . . . ,aconstable in and for said county,b
virtue of an execution in favor of . . . . . . . . . . against
. . . . . . . . . . . . has levied upon the following property: (here describe the property), and . . . . . . . . . .
wishes to replevy the same; now, if the said ; . . . . . . .
. shall have the said property forthcoming at
..........onthe.....dayof.......
A. D. 18 . . , then this obligation to be void; else to remain in
full force and virtue.

timina unto

. . .(Seal.)
. . .(Seal.)

10. WRIT or GARNISHMENT.

STATE or FLQRIDA,
. . COUNTY.

In the name of the State of Florida :


You are hereby required personally to be and appear before a
justice’s court to be holden at . . . . . . . . on the . . . .
day of. . . . . . .A. D. 18. .then and there, in a certain
matter wherein . . . . ~. . . is plaintifff, and . . . . . . .
is defendant, to set forth upon oath what goods and chattels,
rights and credits, money or effects, were in your hands, custody
or control, at the time of the service of this notice, or since, belonging to the said defendant, and in what you are indebted to

.him ; herein fail not.

Given under my hand,this . . . . . . day of . ‘.

.A. D., 18 .

. . Constable.

11. VENIRB FOR JURY.

STATE or FLORIDA,
. . COUNTY.

To the sheriff or any constable of said county: In the name
of the State of Florida.

You are required forthwith to summon six disinterested persons, qualified to be jurors, to appear before me at my office at

. . . . . . ,1n-said county, on the. . . . . .dayof
. . A. D., 18 . . ,at . . o’clock, . . noon, (or forth— witl1)to-form a jury for the trial of an action between A. B., plaintifff, and C. D., defendant, and make due return of this Writ. Dated
this......dayof.....A.D.,18.. . J ustioe of the Peace.

(The venire. should be read.  each person summoned as a
juror.)

12. OATH To JURY.

‘You, and each of you do solemnly swear that you will well
and truly try this issue,‘ wherein . . . . . is

plaintifff and  . . . . . . . . . . is ‘defendant, and a true
verdict give according to the evidence. So help you God.

13. OATH To JURY IN CLAIM CASES.
You and each of you do solemnly swear that you will well

and truly try this claim interposed by . . . . . . . . . . to
this property levied upon by virtue of an execution in favor of
’ . . against. . .

and a true verdict give according to the law and the evidence,
and that you will also give to the plaintifff such damages as may
appear reasonable and right, in case it should appear that such
claim was interposed for delay. So help you God.

14. OATH To WITNESSES.

You do solemnly swear that the evidence you shall give on
this issue shall be the truth, the Whole truth, and nothing but the

truth. So help you God.
(If the Witness desires, the word ajiirm may be used instead of
swear, and the words so help you God may be omitted).

5
15. CONFESSION or JUDGMENT.

STATE or FLORIDA, . ..
O . County. A. B. against L. D.
I have confessed judgment before . . . . . . . . . . . ,
a justice of the peace of the county of . . . . . . . . . . , for
. .dollars and . . . . . . .cents,

damages due to D., and the said justice is authorized to enter
judgment against me in favor of said A. B. for said Sum and costs.

16. MONE\' JUDGMENT.

Judgment is‘hereby rendered against C. D., defendant, in favor
of A. B., plaintifff, for the sum of . . . . . .

dollars and . . . . . . .cents, damages, and: .
dollars and. . . . . . . .centS, costs, this the.

dayof. . . . . .e . .,A.D.18. ..
' l . ' . ' ‘Justice o.fthe.I,’eace.

17. EXECUTION 0N MONEY JUDeMENT.

STATE or FLORIDA,
. . COUNTY.

To the sheriff or any constable of said county:
Whereas judgment against C. D. in the sum of .

. . . . . . . . dollars and . . . . . . . . . cents,‘ daniages, and . . . . . . dollars and . . . . . . . cents, costs of
Suit, was recovered before me on the . . . . 2 . day of . .

......,A.D18. .,byA.B.:

Therefore, in the name of the State of Florida, you are commanded to levy on the goods and chattels, lands and tenements
of said O. D. and make sale thereof according to law, to the
amount of said damages, costs and interests thereon, together
with the costs of this execution, and your fees hereon, and make
return hereof when satisfied, or when duly required, with your
doings hereon.

Given under my hand this. . . . . . . .day of.
.,A. D. 18. .

Justice hr" the ‘Peace.

18. EXECUTION IN REPLEVIN.
STATE or FLORIDA,
. . COUNTY.

To the sheriff or any constable of the county of . . . . . .
Whereas, judgment was rendered against 0. D. on the . . .

.of. . . . . . .A.D.18. .,infavorofA.B.,that

theisaid A. B. recover the possession of certain personal property,
to-wit: (One gray horse, of the value of . . . . dollars;

one double wagon, of the value of . . ‘. . . . dollars, or any
other property, affixing the value of each article as found by the
court or jury), and for the sum of . . . . . dollars damages, and
for. . . . . .dollars and . . . .cents, costs of suit;

thereforee, in the name of the State of Florida, you are hereby required to deliver the said property forthwith to the said A. B., unless the same has already been delivered, and if the said property
or any article thereof cannot be delivered by you on account of
your failure to find the same, you make the value thereof as herein
stated, by levy and sale of the goods and chattels of the said C. D.;
and you are further required to levy upon the goods and chattels
of the said O. D., and make sale thereof according to law, to the
amount of the said damages and costs, with interest thereon, and
the costs of this execution and your fees hereon, and make due
return of your doings hereon when you have fully executed and
satisfied the same.
Given under myhand this the . . . . . day of . . .

A. D., 18 . . \

‘Justice. of the 

TITLE VII.

OF SPECIAL STATUTORY PROCEEDINGS AT LAW.

:.'d.{1'

Crnrrsa 1.—Of attachment. Sections . . . . . . . . . . 51635-1665
. 2.—Of garnishment. Sections . . . . . . . . . M1666-1686
3.—Of forcible entry and unlawful detainer. Secs. 1687-1706

4.—-Of replevin. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . 1707-1725

5.—Of liens. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1726-1749

6.—-Of landlord and tenant. Sections . . . . . . 1750-1770

CHAPTER I.

OF ATTACHMENTS.

ARTICLE 1.—Right to. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1635
2.—From what courts to issue. Section . . . . . 1636
3.—Grounds of. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . 1637-1640
4.—Procurement of. Sections . . . . . . . . . . 1641-1646
5.—Efi'ect of, upon maturity of debt. Section . . 1647
6.—-Writs of. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1648-1650
7.—Effect of levy of. Section . . . . . . . . . . 1651

8.—Return of property to defendant. Sections . . 1652-1654
9.—-Sale of personal property under, pending suit.

Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1655
10.—Dissolution of. Sections .' . . . . . . . . . 1656,1657
11.—Notice« of institution of suit. Section . . . . 1658
12.—Appearance, pleadings and defaults. Sections 1659-1662‘
13.--Amendment of pleadings, etc. Section . . . . 1663
l4.—Judgments. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . 1664
l5.—Claims by third persons. Section . . . . . . 1665

ARTICLE 1.

RIGHT TO ATTACHMENT.

1635. Right de0ned.—Any creditor may have an attachment at law against the goods and chattels, lands and tenements,
of his debtor under the circumstances and in the manner hereinafter provided. (For attachments against stock of debtors in
corporations, see section 1212.)

ARTICLE 2.

FROM WHAT COURT TO ISSUE.

1636. Determined by amount cla.imed.—-Such attachment
shall issue from the court which may have jurisdiction of the

amount claimed by the creditor.

But if the property to be attached is. being actually removed
from the State, and the creditor shall be unable to obtain process
from the circuit or county court, as the case may be, in time to
prevent such removal, any justice of the peace or county judge
may issue the writ, making the same returnable to the circuit or
county court, as the case may be, and shall immediately send all
papers in the case to the clerk of the court to which the Writ is
made returnable.

. ARTICLE 3.

GROUNDS OF‘ AITACIIKENT.

When debt is actually due. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1637
When debt is not actually due. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . 1638
Against executor or administrator. Section . . . . . . . . . . 1639
In aid of foreclosures. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . .' . . 1640

1637. Attachment when debt is actually due.—The creditor
may have an attachment upon a debt actually due to him by his

debtor, Whenever the debtor:
1. Will fraudulently part with his property before judgment
can be obtained against him.

2. Is actually removing his property out of the State of
Florida.

Removal of part of property out of State, not within spirit of statute.—
Haber v. N asits, 12 Fla., 589.

3. Is about to remove his property out of the State of Florida.
4. Resides beyond the limits of the State of Florida.

Allezation of, not inconsistent with allegation 10.—Tanner & Delaney Co.
7. Hall, 22 Fla., 391.

5. Is actually moving himself out of the State of Florida.
6. Is about to move himself out of the State of Florida.
7. Is absconding.

8. Is concealing himself.

9. Is secreting his property.

10. Is fraudulently disposing of his property.

Declaration of debtor as evidence. Evidence of acts and declarations
should not be too remote.—Hardee v. Langford, 6 Fla., 13.

11. Is actually removing himself beyond the limits of the
judicial circuit in which he resides, or

12. Is about to remove himself out of the limits of such judicial circuit.

_ _ “Actually due” defined. Zinn v. Dzial 'nski, 13 Fla., 597. Validity of
jo1_nder with proceedin under section 1639. (feet of such joinder when one
18 1nvalid.——Tanner & elaney Co. v. Hall, 22 Fla., 391.

1638. Attachment when debt is not actually due.—Any
creditor may have such attachment upon a debt not due, but

which will become due Within nine months from the bringing of
the suit, whenever the debtor:

1. Is actually removing his property beyond the limits of the
State.

2. Is fraudulently disposing of his property for the purpose
of avoiding the payment of his just debts or demands.

Construed—proof required ; determination of clerk not conclusive.—Tanner
6; Delaney Co. v. Hall, 22 Fla., 391. \

3. Is fraudulently secreting his property for such purpose.

1639. Attachments against executors and administrators.Whenever any executor or administrator resldes or has removed

beyond the limits of the State, and has no legally authorized
and publicly known agent in this State (see section 1018), and
there are assets of the testator or intestate in the State, any person who has a debt or demand against the estate of the deceased
may take out an attachment against such assets.

1640. In aid of foreclosures on personal property.—Any
creditor who may be commencing or who may have commenced

a suit to foreclose a mortgage on personal property, the possession
of which has remained in the debtor, may have an attachment
against such property, whenever:

1. The said property will be concealed so that it will not be
forthcoming to answer a demand on foreclosure, or

2. The said property will be removed beyond the jurisdiction
of the court foreclosing the mortgage.

ARTICLE 4.

PROCUREMENT OF A'I'l'A CH 3! l-INT.

Affidavit. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1641-1645
Bond. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1646

1641. Amda.vit.—Before any attachment shall issue in any of
the foregoing cases, the plaintifff shall file in the court from which
he desires the attachment an affidavit in writing, sworn to by
himself, his agent or attorney.

1642. Attachment when debt is actually due.——In cases Where
the debt is actually due, such affidavit shall state the amount of

the debt or the sum demanded, that the same is actually due, and
that the affiant has reason to believe in the existence of one or
more of the special grounds hereinbefore enumerated in section
1637, stating specifically such special ground or grounds.

Alle tion of "reason to believe” issuab1e—facts supporting such allegation.
Meinhar t vs. Lilienthal. 17 Fla., 501.

1643. Attachment when debt is not actually due.—In cases
where the debt is not actually due, such affidavit shall state the

amount of the debt or demand ; that the same is actually an ex- :

isting debt or demand ; and the existence of one or more of the
special grounds hereinbefore enumerated in section 1638, stating
specifically such special ground or grounds.

In addition, the plaintifff shall produce before the officer granting such attachment, proof by affidavit (other than his own) or
otherwise, satisfactory to such officer, of the existence of such
special ground.

1644. Attachment against executors and administrators.In cases of attachment against executors or administrators, such

affidavit shall state the amount of the debt or sum demanded,
that the same is an actually existing debt or demand, and the existence of the special grounds enumerated in section 1639.

1645. Attachment in aid of foreclosure.—In cases of attachments in aid of foreclosure of mortgages on personal property

such affidavit shall describe specifically the property upon which
the mortgage exists, and shall state that a bill has been filed to
foreclose said mortgage, the amount of the debt or demand secured by such mortgage, that the same is actually due, and that
affiant has reason to believe in the existence of one or more of the
special grounds enumerated in section 1640. The original mortgage, or a certified copy thereof, shall be attached to the affidavit.

1646. Bond.——No attachment shall issue until the person
applying for the same, his agent or attorney, shall enter into
bond, with at least two good and sufficient sureties, payable to
the defendant, in at least double the debt or sum demanded, conditioned to pay all costs and damages which the defendant may
sustain in consequence of the plaintifff ’s improperly suing out
said attachment.

Any bond taken in cases of attachment shall not on account
of any informality in the same be adjudged void as against the
obligors, nor shall they be discharged therefrom although the
attachment may be dissolved by reason of such informality.

ARTICLE 5.

EF'F'FX"l‘ OF‘ ATTACHMENT UPON MATURITY OF‘ DEBT.

1647. Causes debt not due to mature.—In case of attachment
for debt not due, under section 1638, the existence of one or more

of the special grounds assigned, and in case of attachment against
executors or administrators for a debt not due, the existence of all
the grounds assigned, shall cause the debt to become due, and the
plaintifff in attachment may proceed as upon a debt falling due
upon the day before the institution of the suit.

ARTICLE 6.

W’l{I'I'8 IN ATPACIIM ENT.

Form of. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1648

Return of. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1649

Territorial scope of. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1650
1648. Form of1. GENEn.\LLY.—The writ of attachment shall be directed to
the sheriff or other proper Ofl‘lCGI‘, commanding him to attach
and take into custody so much of the lands, tenements, goods
and chattels of the party against whose property the writ is
issued as will be sufficient to satisfy. the debt or sum demanded,
with costs.

2. IN AID or SUITS T0 FORECLOSE.-—-Ill suits to foreclose mortgages, the writ shall describe the property and command the ofIicer to take and hold such property, or so much thereof as can be
found sufficient to satisfy the debt to be foreclosed.

1649. Return of writ.—The Writ shall be returnable when
fully executed; and if no property be found, shall be returned
by the officer when he shall be convinced that no property can
be found, and if property be seized under the writ, it shall be returned when the property seized shall have finally passed from

the lien of said writ and the control of the officer levying the
attachment. At the time of each -action taken under said writ,
the officer shall endorse such action thereon.

Effect. of non-return upon officer.—Dowling v. Bowden, 25 Fla., 712.

1650. Territorial scope of.-—

1. WHEN PROPERTY IN COUNTY OTHER THAN WHERE SUIT IS
BRoUGH'r.—When, in any proceedings in attachment, the plaintifff‘
or some one in his behalf, shall, in addition to the affidavit in
attachment proceedings, make affidavit that the defendant has
real or personal property in some county of this State other than
the one in which said proceedings were instituted, a writ of at-'
tachment-, original or ancillary, as the case may be, shall be issued
and directed to the sheriff of said county. where said property is,
as aforesaid; and said officer shall execute said writ and hold the
property levied on by virtue thereof ‘subject to the order of the
court from which said writ emanated, which said court shall have
the power to order the delivery thereof to the sheriff or other
proper officer of the county where the said proceedings were instituted, or order said officer so executing the writ to hold and dispose
of the same in his county according to law, as in other cases.

And when any real property is levied upon by virtue of this
section it shall be the duty of t.he officer levying said writ to file
a written notice of said levy with the clerk of the circuit court for
the county in which said property is situated, which notice shall
contain a description of the property so levied upon, and the
clerk shall record said notice in a book kept for the record of
foreign judgments, for which he shall receive a fee of twenty-five
cents, and said record shall be notice to all persons of said levy ;
and in case of the dissolution of the attachment, or dismissal of
the suit, or for any cause the property ceases to be bound by said
attachment, upon due proof thereof the elerkshall note such fact
on the record of the levy.

2. WHEN PROPERTY IS REMOVED FROM COUNTY, PENDING
LEVY or wRI'r.—When personal property of the defendant situated in any county at the time of beginning of an action of
attachment in such county shall be removed from such county
pending such action, it shall be the duty of the officer to whom
the writ is addressed and delivered at once to make his return of
the fact of the removal of such property as aforesaid, and the
plaintifff in such suit may make affidavit stating to what county
or counties he believes the property has been removed, whereupon an alias writ shall issue addressed to the sheriff of such
last named county, or one such writ addressed to the sheriff of
each county to which such property, or a portion thereof, has
been removed,, who shall upon the receipt of such writ take possession of' said property and deliver it to the proper officer of the
court from which such writ was issued, and make return of said
writ and his doings in the premises to said court, and the proceedings shall be thereafter as in other actions of attachment.

All questions as to the title to such property shall be adjudicated in the county in which the suit was brought, unless the
court shall change the venue.

ARTICLE 7.

EFFECT OF LEVY OF‘ “'RI'I'.

1651. Lien created. —The levy of a writ of attachment shall
not operate to disposscss the tenant of any lands or tenements, but
a levy upon real or personal property shall bind the property at
tached, except against pre-existing liens, and levies upon the same
property under successive attachments shall have precedence as
liens in the order in which they are made. A levy shall, however, bind real estate as against subsequent creditors or purchasers only from the time of the record by the clerk of the circuit

court in the lien book of a notice of the levy and a description of
the property levied upon.

Judgment lien relates back to attachment lien.—McClellan v. Solomon,
23 Fla., 437. Pre-existing lien defined.—Zinn v. Dzialynski, 14 Fla.. 187. Lien
of ancillary, not affected by irregularities anterior to issuing of attachment.-—
Budd v. Long, 13 Fla., 288. Lien prevails over mortgage subsequently given.Loubat v. Kipp, 9 Fla., 60. Whether it continues after death of defendantas
against creditors ?-—Ib.

ARTICLE 8.

RETURN OF‘ l’ROl’ER'l‘Y T0 DEI-'E.\'l)A.\"I'.‘l.

1652. Upon forthcoming bond.—The property so attached
may at any time be restored to the said defendant, or some other
person for him, upon the defendant or such other person giving
bond to the officer levying such attachment, payable to the plaintifff with two good and sufiicient sureties to be approved by such
officer, in double the value of the property levied on, such value
to be fixed by the officer, conditioned for the forthcoming of the
property restored, and to abide the final order of the court.

Difference between effect of bond with statutory condition and with condition to have “property forthcoming to abide,” etc.—Collins v. Mitchell, 3 Fla., 4.

1653. Upon bond to pay the debt.—-Or it may be restored to
the defendant (or in case of foreclosure of mortgage, to any person
who shall make affidavit that he is the owner of the equity of redemption), on his entering into bond with two" good and sufficient
sureties to be approved by the officer, conditioned for the payment
to the plaintifff in attachment of the debt or demand, and all costs

of the suit, when the same shall be adjudicated to be payable to
such plaintifff.

1654. By replevin.—Or if the property be not subject to attachment, it may be retaken by the defendant by a replevin proceeding provided for in Title VII, Chapter IV.

ARTICLE 9.

SALE OF‘ PER.'.4().\‘AL PROPERTY PENDING SUIT.

1655. Procurement of order.—All personal property levied
on by attachment shall, unless it be restored to the defendant or

some person for him as provided in sections 1652 to 1654, or be
claimed by a third person as provided by section 1665, remain
in custody of the officer who shall have attached the same until
disposed of according to law. But when the property attached
shall be of a perishable nature, or liable to great deterioration in
value, or the costs of keeping the same shall be greatly disproportionate to the value thereof, the officer who issued the attachment may, in vacation as well as in term time, grant an order for
the sale of such property after such notice as to the officer shall
seem expedient, and the proceeds of such sale shall be paid into
court, and abide the judgment thereof. ‘

ARTICLE 10.

n1sso1.v'rm:~z or zi'1'rAmm1s:N1~s.

1656. Proceedings to dissolve.—The court to which such attachment is returnable shall always be open for the purpose of
hearing and deciding motions to dissolve such attachment, and
in any case upon oath in writing made by the defendant, and
tendered to the court that any allegation in the plaintifff’s affidavit is untrue, a trial of such traverse shall be had, and if the
allegation in the plaintifff’s affidavit which is traversed is not sustained and proved to’ be true, the attachment shall be dissolved.
If such affidavit shall traverse the debt or sum demanded, the
judge may, upon application of either party, require formal
pleadings as to the debt or sum demanded, to be filed in such
time as he may fix, and the issue of fact, if any, raised by such
pleadings shall be tried as hereinbefore provided, and at the same
time as the issue, if any, made by the affidavit as to the special
cause assigned in plaintifff’s affidavit. Issues of law raised by
such pleadings shall be determined and given effect to by the
judge as in other controversies at law. Upon the demand of either party, a jury, to be summoned
from the body of the county upon the order of the judge, shall be
empaneled to try the issue joined as aforesaid ; buta circuit judge
shall not be required in vacation to go to any county in which
he does not reside to try any such motion to dissolve.

1657. Effect of dissolution.1. UPON THE ACTION.—When any suit shall be commenced by
attachment, and the same on motion be dissolved before appearance to the action, then in every such case the suit shall abate
and be dismissed from the court; but if such motion is made after
the party defendant has appeared to the action the attachment
only shall be dissolved, and the plaintifff may still proceed in said
suit and prosecute his debt or demand to final judgment.

Second clause applied.—Kennedy v. Mitchell, 4 Fla... 457.

2. UPON wnrrs or GARNISHMENT.—Wl1eneVer an attachment
shall be dissolved after appearance to the action, and there shall
have been a writ of garnishment issued in the attachment suit,
the same shall not be dismissed or abated in consequence of a dissolution of the said attachment, but shall remain good and binding and in full force and virtue, and abide the final termination
of the action commenced by said attachment.

Effect of dissolution on suit to which attachment is a.nci1lary.—Loring V.
Wittich. 16 Flo.., 617.

ARTICLE 11.

NOTICE OF INSTITUTION OF SUIT.

1658. Service and contents of.—In all cases commenced by
attachment, where property shall be attached and not retaken by

the defendant, a notice of the institution of the suit by attachment shall be personally served upon the defendant, or‘ shall be
published once each week for three months in some newspaper
in the county in which the suit is instituted.

Such notice shall require the ‘defendant and all other persons
interested to appear to the action. If the notice be a personal
one, the time fixed for appearance shall be as in summons ad
resp0mlcndu.m; and if it be published, the time fixed shall be the
rule day succeeding the last publication.

Service of the personal notice shall be made at the time fixed
for service of summons ad respondenclmn, and if made Within the
State, shall be made by the executive officer of the court; but if
it be made out of the State, it may be made by any person, and
proof thereof shall be furnished by theaffidavit of such person
before any judicial officer having a seal, in the state where such
service is made. If the writ be issued by a justice of the peace
or county judge, the publication shall be only for one month.

ARTICLE 12.

APPEARANCE, PLEADING AND DEFAULT.

1659. Decla.rations.—-The declaration shall be filed on the
rule day fixed in the notice, or upon the succeeding rule day, as
provided in personal suits.

1660. Appearance.—The appearance of the defendant shall
be entered upon the day of the filing of the declaration. If the
property be retaken by the defendant under any proceedings provided in sections 1652 to 1654, such retaking shall be considered
an appearance by the defendant as of the rule day next succeeding such retaking, and the plaintifff shall be held to file his declaration upon the said rule day, or that next succeeding.

If there be personal service out of the State the appearance of
the defendant shall ‘not be required until the rule day next succeeding the filing of the declaration.

1661. Proceedings and pleadings after appearance.—Upon
the appearance of the defendant all further pleadings and proceedings shall be as in personal suits.

1662. Defaults, and final judgment upon default.—If the defendant do not appear on or before the day hereinbefore fixed, a
default may be taken, and final judgment entered against him.

ARTICLE 13.

AMENDMENTS.

1663. Amendment of pleadings and proceedings in attachment.—Pleadings and proceedings in attachments shall be amendable as in other actions, and no motion to dissolve an attachment for any default or omission shall be granted if application
be made to amend in the particular objected to. But if any
amendment be made to an attachment bond, such amended bond,
although not heretofore binding upon the sureties, shall relate
back to the institution’ of the suit and afford protection to the defendant in attachment from such institution.

ARTICLE 14.

J UDGM I-ZNTS.

1664. Judgments against principal and sureties.——If judg- '
ment by default be entered in favor of the plaintifff, a.nd the defendant shall have retaken the property upon a forthcoming bond,

final judgment by default shall be entered at the same time
against the defendant and the sureties on the bond for the amount
of the judgment against the defendant if it be less than the value
of the property as fixed by the officer, or for the value of the
property so fixed, if such value be less than the judgment against
the defendant. If the defendant shall have retaken the property
upon a bond to pay the debt, such judgment shall also be entered
against the sureties for the amount of the judgment against the
defendant. In case of a judgment against defendant alter trial,
judgment shall be entered against the sureties, as above provided,
except that the value of the property retaken by defendant shall
be found by the judge or the jury (as the case may be tried before
the one or the other), and stated in the finding or verdict.

ARTICLE 15.

(YLAIMS BY THIRD PERSONS T0 PROPERTY ATTACHED.

1665. As in cases of execution.—-If any attachment shall be
levied upon property claimed by any person other than the defendant in attachment, such person may, at his option, replevy
the same or interpose a claim in the manner provided in case of
execution.

Attachment law should be construed so as to advance the remedy.-Hardee
v. Langford, 6 Fla., 13.

CHAPTER II.

GARNISHMENT.
AR'r1(:1.1c 1.—Right to writ. Section . . . . . . . . . . . 1666
2.—Garnishment after judgment against defendant.
Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1667-1679
3.—-Garnishment before judgment against defendant. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1680-1686

ARTICLE 1 .

RIG IIT TO W’ R11‘.

1666. Right deIlned.—Every person who shall have brought
a suit in any court of this State against any person, natural or
corporate, shall have a right to a writ of garnishment under the
circumstances and in the manner hereinafter provided, to subject.
any indebtedness due to the defendant by a third person, and
any goods, monies, chattels or effects of the defendant in the
hands, possession or control of a third person.

The officers, agents and employes of railroad companies shall
be, as regards such companies, third persons, and as such shall

be subject to garnishment after judgment against such companies.

Both ssession and privity of garnishee required. Exceptions.—Huot v
El , 17 a., 775. When garnishment lies to maker of negotiable note.—Ib_
W en, if at all, to reach legacy in hands of executor.—Post v.I.ove, 19 Fla., 634

ARTICLE 2.

GARNIBHMENT AFTER JUDGMENT AGAINST THE DEFENDANT.

Procurement of writ. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1667
The writ. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1668-1670
Appearance and answer of garnishee. Section . . . . . . 1671
Proceedings against 'garnishee. Sections . . . . . . . . . 1672-1675
Disposition of property surrendered by garnishee. Section . 1676
Proceedings against persons named in answer of garnishee. .

Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1677
Compensation of garnishee. Section . . . . . . . . . . . 1678
Claims of third persons to property garnished. Section’! . . 1679

1667. Procurement of writ.—After judgment has been obtained against the defendant before such writ shall issue, the plaintiii‘, his agent or attorney, shall make and file in the court where
such judgment has been obtained, an affidavit that affiant does
not believe that defendant has in his possession visible property
upon which a levy can be made sufficient to satisfy the said judgment.
Such affidavit may be made and filed, and the writ issue thereon either before or after the return of execution.

was wmr.
Form of. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1668
Service and return of. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1669
Effect of service of. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1670

1668. Form of the writ.—The writ shall be directed to the
sheriff or other proper officer of the county in which said garnishee may reside, and shall command the said garnishee to
appear at the rule day to which said garnishment is returnable,
and state on oath in writing, to be filed in the court, whether he
is at the time of the answer indebted to the defendant, or was indebted at the time of the service of the writ or at any time between such periods, and- in what sum or sums, and what goods,
money, chattels or effects of defendant he has at the time of his
answer in his hands, possession or control, or had at the time of
the service upon him of the said writ, or at any time between
such periods, and whether he knows of any other person indebted
to said defendant, or who may have any of the effects of said

defendant in his hands.

1669. Service and return of the writ.-—The writ shall be
returnable and shall be served in the manner provided by law

for the return and service of writs of summons ad respondendum.

723 Appearance by attorney waives defect of sex-vioe.—Mercer v. Booby, 6 Fla.,

1670. Effect of service of writ.——The service of the writ
shall make the garnishee answerable for all indebtedness due by

him to the defendant, and for any goods, money, chattels or effects
of the defendant- in his hands, possession or control, at the time
of the service of the writ, or at any time between such service
and the time of his answer.

1671. Appearance and answer of garnishee.—If any garnishee shall enter his appearance upon the return of the writ, he

shall be entitled until the next ensuing rule day of the court to
file his answer, and shall be required to file such answer on that
day.

Gamishee having notice of the assignment of debt due by him must set up
assignment in his answer.—Walters v. hitlock, 9 F1a., 86.

PROCEEDINGS AGAINST (l A RNISIIEI-3.

Default and final judgment. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1672
Traverse of answer of garnishee. Section . . . . . . . . . . 1673
Judgment upon confession of garnishee. Section . . . . . . . 1674

Execution on failure of garnishee to surrender property. Section 1675

1672. Default and final judgment.——If it shall appear that
garnishment has been lawfully served upon the garnishee, and

he shall, within the time prescribed herein, fail to appear, or
having appeared, fail to answer, and discover on oath, the clerk,
or the judge if he have no clerk, shall enter a default against
such garnishee, and thereupon a sci’-*rcfacias shall issue against
such garnishee, returnable to the next rule day thereafter, to
show cause, if any he have, why final judgment should not be
entered against him; and upon such sci?-e_fa.c2'.as being returned
executed, if such garnishee shall fail to appear and discover, as
is directed, the clerk, or judge if the court have no clerk, shall
enter final judgment against the garnishee.

If s11ehsmI‘rc,faci2'a.s be to the master of a vessel, final judgment may be entered against him upon the return of the officer
that he is not to be found.

Such final judgment against the garnishee shall be for the
amount of the judgment against the defendant, and execution
shall issue therefore as upon other judgments.

Effect of judgnwnt against garnishee on debt due by hi1u.———Sessinn:- v. Stevens, 1 F1a., 233.

1673. Traverse of answer of garnishee.—Whenever any
plaintifff shall allege that any garnishee has not discovered the true

amount of debts due from him to the defendant, or that goods and

chattels, money or effects belonging to the defendant are in his
possession, or were at the time of the service of the writ, or between the time of such service and of the answer the court shall
direct, without the formality of pleading, a jury to be empaneled,
unless a good cause be shown by either party for a continuance,
to inquire what is the true amount due from such garnishee to
the defendant, and what goods, money, chattels or effects are_ in
his possession belonging to said defendant, or was due or were in
his possession belonging to said defendant, or was due or were in
his possession at the time aforesaid. If the finding of the jury
shall be against said garnishee, the court shall grant judgment in
the same manner as if the facts found by the jury had been confessed by him on his examination, with the costs thereon. If the
jury find in favor of the garnishee, he shall recover costs against
the plaintifff or plaintifffs.

1674. Judgment upon confession of garnishee.—When
the garnishee shall confess his indebtedness to the defendant, or

his possession of any goods, money, chattels or effects in his
hands belonging to the defendant, and the plaintifff shall be satisfied with the said confession, then the clerk, or the court if it
have no clerk, shall award judgment against said garnishee for
the amount so confessed by him, and shall order execution to
issue upon the said judgment, and if the amount of the judgment against the garnishee be not sufficient to satisfy the plaintifff ’s judgment against said defendant, then execution on the
judgment against the defendant may be also levied on the goods,
chattels or effects of the said defendant, so confessed by said garnishee to be in his hands or possession, which shall be sold in the
same manner as under other executions.

1675. Execution on failure of garnishee to surrender property.—If the garnishee will not surrender, provided he have the

power to do so, the goods and chattels belonging to said defendant, and which he has confessed to be in his hands or possession,
then by order of the court execution may be issued and levied on
the property of said garnishee for the wh ole amount of the plaintifff’s
judgment against the defendant, or for so much of said judgment
as shall then be unpaid; and the officer shall proceed to sell the
said property as under other executions. But said garnishee
shall have the right to release his property from such levy and
sale by surrendering the said property of the defendant to the
officer levying said execution on the day and hour appointed for
the sale of the property so levied upon, or at any time previous
to the day of the sale, and by paying the costs of the proceedings
to sell up to the time of the surrender.

1676. Disposition of property surrendered by garnishee.
—When any garnishee shall have any of the goods, chattels or

effects of said defendant in his hands or possession, and shall
surrender the same, the constable, sheriff or other officer shall
receive said property, and shall proceed to sell the same under
the execution against the defendant.

1677. Proceedings against persons named in the answer of
garnishee.‘-—If upon the answer of any garnishee it shall appear

to the court that there are any of the defendant’s effects or property in the hands of any person who has not been garnished, such
court shall, upon motion of the plaintifff, award a garnishment
against such person having any of the effects or property of the
defendant in his custody, hands, possession or control, who shall
appear and answer, and be liable as other garnishees.

1678. Compensation of garnishee.——The garnishee shall. be
allowed by the court the pay of a witness for his attendance out

of the indebtedness to defendant or out of the money or effects in
his possession, and if there should be no such indebtedness, money
or effects in his possession, then the allowance shall be against the
plaintifff.

1679. Claims by third persons to property ga?rnisheed.—If
any person other than the defendant shall claim that the indebtedness due by a garnishee is due to him and not to the
defendant, or shall claim the effects in the hands or possession of
any garnishee, and shall make affidavit that the said indebtedness or effects are bona fide his property, the court shall immediately, unless good cause be shown to the contrary, and without the
formality of pleading, direct a jury to be empaneled, to inquire of
the right of such property between the claimant and the plaintifff;
and if the finding of the jury shall be against such claimant, the
plaintifff shall recover costs; and if the jury find in favor of such
claimant, he shall recover costs against the plaintifff; and if such
claim be interposed after a levy on property, the officer making
said levy shall return said execution with his levy thereon and
said affidavit of said claimant to the court from which said execution issued, and such proceedings shall be had thereon as in
other cases of claims made to property taken on execution.

ARTICLE 3.

GARNISIIMENT BEFORE JUDGMENT AGAINST DEFENDANT.

Procurement of writ. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . 1680
Judgment by default. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . 1681
Judgment by confession, and upon traverse. Section . 1682
Proceedings upon judgment for defendant. Sections . . 1683, 1684
Release of garnishee upon application of defendant. Sec. 1685
Proceedings when defendant is not found. Section . . 1686

1680. Procurement of Writ.—Before such. writ shall issue.
either in a suit commenced by a summons ad respondendum or

by attachment before judgment has been obtained by the plaintifff
against the defendant, the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, shall
make and file in the court where the suit is pending, an affidavit
that the afliant does not believe that the defendant Will have in
his possession after execution shall be issued visible property in

this State and in the county in which the suit may be pending
upon which a levy could be made, sufficient to satisfy the judgment which affiant believes plaintifff will be able to obtain in the
said suit.

1681. Judgment by default.—i-Default, and final judgment by
default, may be rendered against the garnishee, as in cases of

garnishment after judgment; and such judgment shall be for the
amount claimed by the plaintifff; but no execution shall issue
thereon or payment thereof be enforced until the plaintifff shall
have recovered judgment against the defendant, and then only
for the amount so recovered, with costs.

1682. Judgment by confession and upon traverse.—Judgment against the garnishee upon his confession and upon traverse of his answer may be obtained as in cases of garnishment
after judgment; but no execution shall issue thereon or payment
thereof be enforced until the plaintifff shall have recovered judgment against the defendant, and then only for the amount so recovered.

1683. Right of defendant upon judgment in his favor.If the judgment shall be in favor of the defendant in the suit,

then the plaintifff shall pay all costs which have accrued in consequence of suing out said writ of garnishment, and the money,

brought into the registry of the court thereby, or the judgment
obtained thereon, except judgment by default against the garnishee, shall enure to the benefit of and be controlled and managed by the said defendant as amply and completely as though
the Same had been rendered in his favor. (Attorneys’ fees in

favor of defendant in county courts and justices of the peace
courts.—Chapter 4030, act of June 8, 1891, Appendix.)

1684. Right of garnishee upon judgment for defendant.If any plaintifff shall discontinue his suit against the defendant,

or be non-suited, or have a verdict against him on the trial of
said suit, then the judgment against the garnishee shall become
null and void, and such garnishee shall have execution for his
costs, to be taxed as in other cases against said plaintifff in said
suit.

1685. Release of garnishee ‘upon application of defendant.
—If the defendant, after the filing of a declaration by the plaintifff, shall execute and file in the court a bond to be approved by
the clerk, or by the court if it have no clerk, payable to the
plaintifff in a sum double the amount claimed in the declaration,
with two good and sufficient suretics, conditioned to pay to the
plaintifff such sum, with interest and costs, as he may recover in
the suit, the court shall enter an order discharging the garnishee.
Or if the garnishee shall admit indebtedness to the defendant in
excess of a sum sufficient to satisfy plaintifff’s claim, the court
shall on motion of defendant and notice to plaintifff, release the
garnishee from responsibility to the plaintifff for any indebtedness to the defendant in excess of a sum deemed by the court
sufficient to satisfy the plaintifff's claim, with interest and costs

1686. Proceedings when defendant not to be found.—If the
officer to whom any summons ad mspondendum has been directed

in a suit in which a writ of garnishment has been issued shall return that the defendant does not reside in the State, or if the oilicer to whom has been directed a writ of attachment in a suit commenced by attachment in which a writ of garnishment has also
been issued shall not be able to find property of the defendant
upon which to levy the writ of attachment, the plaintifff may give
notice of the institution of such suit in the manner provided for
giving notices of suits commenced by attachment. (See section
1658)

And the pleadings and proceedings, and entry of defaults and
judgments shall be as in such cases of attachment.

If the plaintifff in such case shall not give such notice within
sixty days after the issuing of thewrit of garnishment, the suit
shall be dismissed upon motion of the defendant, or of the garnishee.

CHAPTER III.

FORCIBLE ENTRY, AND UNLAWFUL DETAINER.

ARTICLE 1.—Declaration of rights and remedies. Sections . 1687-1690

2.——Questions involved in the action. Section . . 1691
3.—Petition and process. Sections . . . . . . . 1692-1694
i4.—Jurors. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1695,1696
5.—Trial. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1607-1701
6.—Judgment and execution. Sections . . . . . 1702,1703
7.—New trials. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . 1704
8.-—Appea1s. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1705
9.—Compensation of county judges. Section . . 1706
ARTICLE 1.

DECLARATION OF RIGHTS AND REMEDI§.

1687. Unlawful entry and forcible entry de1lned.—No person shall enter into any lands or tenements but in case where

entry is given by law, nor shall any person, where entry is given
by law, enter with strong hand or with multitude of people, but
only in a peaceable, easy and open manner.

Second clause applied.—-Greeley v. Spratt, 19 Fla., 644.

1688. Unlawful entry and unlawful detention defined.No person who shall, without consent, enter in a peaceable, easy.

and open manner into any lands or tenements, shall hold the
same afterward against the consent of the party entitled to possession thereof.

1689. Remedy declared for unlawful entry and forcible
entry.—-If any person shall enter or shall have entered into lands

or tenements in case where entry is not given by law, or if any
person shall enter or shall have entered into any lands or tenements with strong hands or with multitude of people, even in
case entry is given by law, the party turned out or deprived of
possession by such unlawful, or by such forcible, entry, by whatever right or title he held such possession, or whatever estate he
held or claimed in the lands or tenements of which he was so dispossessed, shall at any time within three years thereafter be entitled to the summary remedy herein provided.

1690. Remedy declared for unlawful detention.—If any person shall enter or shall have entered in a peaceable manner into

any lands or tenements, in case such entry is lawful, and after
the expiration of his right shall continue to hold the same against
the consent of the party entitled to the possession, the party so
entitled, whether as tenant of the freehold, tenant for years or
otherwise, shall be entitled to the like summary remedy at any
time within three years after the possession shall so have been
withheld from him against his consent.

What tenant cannot show as defense against 1essor.—McLean v. Spratt, 20 Fla?
515. What demand of rent by landlord sufficient.-—Ib. Notice to quit required
(in the special ca.se).—McLean v. Spratt, 19 F1a., 97.

Forcible entry and unlawful detainer cannot be joined. How defect reached.
—Liddon v. Hodnett, 22 Fla., 271. Franchises not recoverable in this action—nor
is a railroad.—Gibbs v. Drew, 16 Fla., 147.

ARTICLE 2.

QUETION8 INVOLVED IN THIS ACPION.

1691. Rights of possession and damages.—No question of
a title, but only a right of possession and of damages, shall be
involved in the action.

7 For what purpose title deed may be introduced.—Walls v.Ende1, 17 Fla.,
4 8.

ARTICLE 3.

PETITION AND PROCESS.

1692. Petition.—The party so turned out of possession, or so
held out of possession, may exhibit his complaint, verified by oath
of the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, before the county judge, or
county court, or circuit court of the county in which the real
estate is situated in the following form or to the following effect:
STATE or FLoR‘1nA,

COUNTY OF . . . l

A. B., of the said county, complains’ that C. D. has unlawfully (or forcibly, as the case may be), turned him out of and
withholds possession (or unlawfully and against his consent withholds from him the possession) of certain real estate known and

described as follows: (here insert description) containing by estimation . . . . . acres of land, with the appurtenances, lying
and being in the State aforesaid, whereof he prays restitution of
possession and his damages. A. B., Plaintiff.

1693. Process, issuance and form of.—The clerk of the court
or the county judge, as the case may be, upon the filing of said

ccfifmplaint, shall thereupon issue a summons to the following
e ect:

The State of Florida, to the sheriff of . . .
. . county, greeting:

Wecommandyoutosummon. . . '. . . . . . . . . . ,
if he be found within the county of . . . . . . . . . . ,personally to be and appear before the (name of the court or the
county judge, as the case may be), for said county, on the . . .

.. .Mondayin......,being the first da
of ournextterm,toanswer. . . . . . . . . . . . . inan
action wherein he prays restitution of possession of the following
real estate, with the appurtenancx-as, viz.: .

. . . and have then and there this writ.

Witness (name of the clerk or of the county judge, as the case

maybe),thisthe. . . . . . . . dayof . . . . . . . .
A.D.18.. - '

1694. Return and service thereof.1. RETURN.—'I‘he summons aforesaid shall be made returnable to the next term of the court in which it is brought.

But if a regular term of the court in which the suit is brought
will not be held within fifteen days after the filing of the complaint, the party making the complaint may have the summons
to be issued made returnable to said court at any time not less
than ten days from its date.

2. SERVICE on PROCESS--—SllCl1 process shall be served at least
ten days before the day to which it is returnable, and it shall be
served as the law requires summons ad rcspo-ndend um to be served,
except that in case no person can be found at the usual place of
residence of defendant, it may be served by posting a copy in a
conspicuous place on the property in the summons mentioned.

ARTICLE 4.

JURORS.

1695. Regular venires.~If the summons be returnable to a
term of the circuit or county court, the action shall be tried by a
jury of six good and lawful men, registered voters of that county,
freeholders, and not of kin to either party, to be selected from the
jury in attendance at said term of court, or, in case of deficiency,

from the bystanders.

1696. Special venire.-—If the summons be returnable to the
court of the county judge or to a day in vacation in the circuit
or county court, the clerk, or the judge, as the case may be, shall,
at the time of issuing the summons, issue a- venlizre facias directed
to the sheriff of the county, commanding him to summon at least
six persons possessing the qualifications mentioned in section
1695, to be attendant as jurors upon the court on the day to which
the writ is returnable, to try the complaint aforesaid. If a sufficient number of the persons thus summoned do not attend, the
deficiency shall be made up of bystanders qualified as aforesaid.

ARTICLE 5.

TRIA L.

1697. To be without pleadings.—If it shall appear to the
court, at the return day of the summons, that the defendant has
been duly served therewith, it shall proceed without further
pleadings in writing to empanel a jury to try the cause.

16.9.8. Oath of jury in forcible or unlawful entry and unlawful detainer.—In cases of forcible entry and unlawful detainer
the jury shall be sworn to well and truly try whether the defendant, at any time within three years before the filing of the
complaint, did forcibly or unlawfully enter upon the property in
the complaint mentioned and turn the plaintifff out of the possession thereof, and whether the defendant continued to hold the
possession thereof at the time of filing the complaint, and to
assess such damages as may be recoverable according to the evidence.

Issue defined.—Greeley v. Spratt, 19 F1a., 644.

1699. Oath in unlawful detainer.—If the complaint be of an
unlawful detainer against the consent of the plaintifff, the jury
shall be sworn to well and truly try whether the defendant,
against the consent of the plaintifff, wrongfully holds possession
of the real estate mentioned in the complaint; whether the said
defendant has so held possession thereof against the consent of
the plaintifff within three years next before the exhibition of the
complaint; and whether the plaintifff has the right of possession
in the tenement aforesaid, and to assess such damages as may be
recoverable, according to the evidence.

1700. Evidence as to damages.—On the trial, evidence shall
be admitted as to the monthly rental value of the premises, and,
in case of recovery by plaintifff, the jury shall fix his damages at
double the rental value of the premises from the time of the unlawful or wrongful holding. But the damages in no case of
detainer shall be fixed at more than the rental value of the premises, unless the jury be satisfied from evidence that such detention is willful and knowingly wrongful. .

1701. Form of verdict.1. IN CASES o1«‘ FORCIBLE on UNLAWFUL ENTRY.—-The form of
the verdict of the jury shall be in ca.ses of forcible or unlawful
entry substantially as follows: We, the jury, find that the defendant did (or did not) within three years next before the filing
of the complaint in this cause, forcibly .(or unlawfully) enter upon
the real estate in the complaint mentioned, and turn the plaintifff
out of possession thereof; that the said defendant did (or did not)
continue to hold the possession thereof, at the date of the said
complaint; and we assess the damages of plaintifff at .
dollars.

2. IN CASES or UNLAWFUL DETAINER.—-The form of the verdict in cases of unlawful detainer against the plaintifff’s consent
shall be substantially as follows: We, the jury, find that the defendant did (or did not), at the time of filing the complaint in
this cause, wrongfully hold possession of the real estate mentioned
in the complaint, against the consent of the plaintifff; that the
said defendant has (or has not) so held possession thereof, against
the consent of the plaintifff, within three years next before the
filing of said complaint; and that the plaintifff has (or has not)
the right of possession in the real estate aforesaid ; and we assess
the damages of the plaintifff at . . . . . dollars.

ARTICLE 6.

J UDG MENT AND EXECUTION.

1702. Form of.—If the verdict of the jury shall be in favor
of the plaintifff, the court shall award a judgment for the plaintifff
that he recover possession of the property described in the complaint, with his damages and costs, and shall award a writ of
habere facias posse.9sionem to be executed without delay, and also
a writ of execution for his damages and costs as in other civil
cases; and if the verdict shall be for the defendant the court
shall render judgment against the plaintifff that his complaint
be dismissed and that the defendant recover costs, and execution
may issue therefore.

1703. Efect of judg'ment.—No judgment rendered either
for plaintifff or defendant shall bar any action of trespass for injury to the property, or ejectment, between the same parties respecting the same property in question, nor shall any verdict be
held conclusive of the facts therein found, in any action of trespass or ejectment.

ARTICLE 7.

NEW TRIALS.

1704. Courts may gra.nt.—New trials may be. granted in
proper cases by the court trying the cause.

ARTICLE 8.

APPEALS.

1705. Manner of taking and e11'ect.—A writ of error may be
taken by the losing party to the proper appellate court, in the
same manner and time, and under the same terms, including the
right to a bill of exceptions, as in other writs of error.

But the plaintifff in error shall only be required to give bond
for the payment of all costs occasioned by his writ, and for the
payment of the‘ damages (if he be defendant) awarded against
him if his writ be not sustained ; and no writ of error shall operate
as a supersedeas to the execution of the writ of possession.

ARTICLE 9.

COMPENSATION OF‘ COUNTY JUDGE.

1706. Amount and manner of pa.yment.—The county judge
shall receive fees for his services in said proceedings, the same in

amount as that fixed for the clerk of the circuit court for similar
services, and shall in addition receive five dollars for each day occupied in the trial. Such fees and per diem shall be taxed in the
costs. '

CHAPTER IV.
REPLEVIN.

ARTICLE 1.—Right to writ. Sections . . . . . . . . . '. 1707,1708
2.--In what court action to be had. Sections . . 1709,1710
3.-—Commencement of action. Sections . . . . . 1711-1715
4.-Execution of writ. Sections . . . . . . . . 1716-1719
5.—Pleadings. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . 1720-1722
6.—-Amendment of pleadings and proceedings. Sec. 1723
7.—Judgment and execution. Sections. . . . . 1724,1725

ARTICLE 1.

RIGHT TO THE ‘VRIT.

1707. Generally.—Any person, when goods or chattels may
be wrongfully detained by any other person or oliicer, may have

under the circumstances and in the manner hereinafter provided,
a writ of replevin for the recovery thereof, and for the recovery

of the damages sustained by reason of the wrongful caption or
detention.

Lies in case of conditional sale.—Cam bell Manufacturing CO. v. Walker, 22

Fla., 412. Not in case of goods in custo y of the law.—-Tyson v. Bowden, 8
F 1a., 61. '

1708. Limitations upon the right.1. PROPERTY TAKEN FOR TAxEs, ETc.—No replevin shall‘ lie
for any property taken by virtue of any warrant for the collection

of any tax, assessment or fine in pursuance of any statute in this
State.

2. FOR PROPERTY TAKEN UNDER EXECUTION, ETo.—Nor shall
replevin lie at the suit of the defendant in any execution or
attachment to recover goods and chattels seized by virtue thereof,
unless such goods and chattels are exempted by law from such
execution or attachment.

3. FOR PROPERTY REPLEVIED FROM DEFENDANT.-—NOI‘ shall
replevin lie by the original defendant in replevin for property
taken in replevin and delivered to the plaintifff While the same
remains in the possession of the original plaintifff or his agents.

4. FOR PROPERTY TO WHICH PLAINTIFF HAS RIGHT OF PossEssIoN.—Nor shall replevin lie at the suit of any person, unless

he shall have a right to reduce into his possession the goods
taken.

ARTICLE 2.

IN WHAT COURT ACTION TO BE IIAD.

1709. Genera.lly.—Tho action shall be brought in the court in
the county where the property is, which shall have jurisdiction of
the value of the articles sought to be replevied, as set forth in the
affidavit hereinafter provided for.

When property consists of separate articles, any one of which
may in value be within the jurisdiction of a justice of the peace,
but taken together will exceed that jurisdiction, the plaintifff shall
not, for the purpose of giving. jurisdiction to a justice of the peace,
divide and separate said property to enable him to bring separate
actions therefore.

1710. In cases of urgency.-—When property wrongfully taken
or wrongfully detained exceeds in value the jurisdiction of a justice of the peace, and it is inconvenient or impracticable from distance or other causes, or the urgency of the case will not permit,
to apply to the clerk of the circuit or county court, as the case
may be, for a writ of replevin, a justice of the peace shall, after
affidavit and bond as hereinafter provided shall have been made
and given and filed with the justice (who shall also approve the

bond), issue a writ of replevin, directed to a sheriff or a constable,
and returnable to the court having jurisdiction.

Upon the issuance of the writ, the justice shall immediately
file the affidavit and bond in the court to which the writ is returnable, and the cause shall thereafter proceed in that court.

ARTICLE 3.

COMMENCEMENT OF ACTION.

1711. Procurement of writ and summons.—Actions of replevin shall be commenced by writ and summons, and before

they shall issue, the plaintifff, or some competent person in his
behalf, shall make and file in the court an affidavit and a bond

as hereinafter provided.

1712. Contents of afHda.vit.—'I‘he affidavit shall state that
the plaintifff is lawfully entitled to the possession of the property (describing it, and stating its true value) and that the same
has not been taken for any tax, assessment or fine levied by virtue of any law of this State, nor seized under any execution or
attachment against the goods and chattels of such plaintifff liable
to execution, and that the defendant has possession of and detains the same from plaintifff.

Must describe property.—’Branch v. Branch, 6 Fla., 3314.

1713. Requisites of bond.—The bond shall be payable to
the defendant, with at least two good and sufficient sureties to

be approved of by the officer issuing the writ, in at least double
the sworn value of the property to be replevied, conditioned that
the plaintifff will prosecute his suit to effect and without delay,
and that if the defendant recover judgment against him in the
action, he will return the same property if return thereof be
adjudged, and will pay to the defendant all such sums of money
as may be recovered against him by such defendant in the said
action for anycauses whatever.

In suit by executor in individual ca acity, bond binding estate not necessary.—Branch v. Branch, 6 Fla., 314. s it when he sues as executor?—Ib.
Bond need not contain description of the propert.y.—Ib. Not invalidated by excessive statement of dam s in declarat1on.—Ib. Informal sustained as voluntary bond, when.—I b. Vhat sufficient identification of clerk approving.—Ib.
Person signing need bind nobody but himself.—-I b.

1714. Form and return of writ and summons.-—The writ and
summons shall be returnable as other process in actions at law;

such writ and summons shall command the officer to whom it
may be directed to replevy the goods and chattels in possession
of the defendant, describing them, and to summon the defendant to be and appear before the court from ‘which said writ and
summons were issued, on the return day thereof, to answer the
plaintifff in the premises.

1715. Service thereof.—Such writ and summons shall be
served upon the defendant at the time and in the manner in
which writs of summons ad respovzderzdum are required to be
served.

ARTICLE 4.

EXECUTION OF THE WRIT. ~

1716. Upon property in buildings, etc.—In executing the
writ of replevin, if the property or any part thereof be secreted
or concealed in any dwelling house, or other building or enclosure, the officer shall publicly demand deliverance thereof, and
if the same be not delivered by the defendant or some other person, he shall cause such house, building, or enclosure, to be
broken open, and shall make replevin according to the Writ;
and if necessary, he shall take to his assistance the power of the
countv.

1717. Upon property changing possession pending execution
of -the writ.—If the property to be replevied be in the possession

of the defendant at the time of the issuance of the writ, and shall
pass into the possession of a third person before the execution of
the writ, the officer holding the writ shall execute it upon the
property in the possession of such third person, and shall serve
the writ and summons both upon the‘ defendant and such third
person, and the suit, with proper amendments, shall proceed
against such third person.

1718. Upon property removed from jurisdiction pending
suit.—If the property to be replevied shall, at the time of the

issuance of the writ, be in the territorial jurisdiction of the court
issuing the writ, the officer to whom the writ is directed shall deliver the same to the proper officer in the jurisdiction into which
the property ha.s been removed, and such latter officer shall proceed to execute the writ, and shall hold the property subject to
the orders of the court issuing the writ.

1719. Delivery of property to plaintin‘, or defenda.nt.—The
officer executing said writ shall deliver said property to the plaintifff in replevin after the lapse of three days from the time said property was so taken, unless within said three days the defendant
in replevin shall give bond in double the value of said property as appraised by the said officer, with security to be approved
by such officer, conditioned to have said property forthcoming to
abide the result of the suit instituted against the same, in which
event said property shall be re-delivered to the said defendant in
replevin.

ARTICLE 5.

PLEADINGS.
1720. Headings of plaintifffs.1. TIME or FILING or DECLARATION.-—IIl replevin the plaintiff shall file his declaration at the time required by law in other
suits, unless further time be given by the court.

2. DECLARATION WHEN PROPERTY NOT DELIVERED TO PLAINTIEI«‘.—If the property specified in the writ of replevin be not delivered to the plaintifff, etc., and the defendant shall have been
duly summoned, the plaintifff may either sue out an alias writ, or
proceed in his suit by filing a declaration in trover or trespass,
and thereby abandon his action of replevin.

Plaintiff ma ' (in proper_case) cause issue of pluries writ. Effect of his so
doing on his rig t to declare in trespass or trover.——Branchv. Branch, 6 Fla.,314.

1721. Pleadings of defendant.l. TIME FOR FILING PLEAS AND nEMUERERs.—The defendant
may plead or demur to the declaration within such time as is
prescribed in other actions at law.

2. PLEA OF NOT UUILTY.—The defendant may plead that he
is not guilty of the premises charged against him, and this plea
shall put in issue, not only the right of the plaintiffi" to the possession of the property described in the declaration, but the
wrongful taking and detention thereof.

Applied.—Holliday V. Mt-Kinne, 22 Fla., 153.
0

1722. Pieadings and proceedings by both pa.rties.——P1eadings and proceedings similar to those in other actions at law shall

govern in the action of replevin when not inconsistent with the
provisions of this chapter.

0

ARTICLE 6.

AMENDMENTS.

1723. Amendment of pleadings and proceedings.—P1eadings
and proceedings in replevin shall be amendable as in other actions, and no motion to dismiss a replevin suit or quash the execution of the writ shall be granted if application be made to
amend in the particular objected to. But if any amendment be
made to any replevin bond, such amended bond, although not
theretofohe binding upon the sureties, shall relate back to the institution of the suit and afford protection to the defendant in
replevin from such institution.

ARTICLE 7.

JUDGMENT AND EXECUTION.

1724. Judgment for the plaintin‘.—

1. WHEN_ GOODS WERE NOT DELIVERED TO nEFENnAN'r.—If
it shall appear upon default of the defendant, or upon trial, or
otherwise, that the goods described in the declaration were wrongfully taken or 'detained by the ‘defendant, and the said goods
shall have been delivered to plaintifff by the officer executing the
writ, the plaintifff shall -have judgment for his damages caused by
the taking and detention, and for his costs of suit.

2. WHEN GOODS ARE RE-DELIVERED TO DEFENDAN'l‘.—If it shall
appear, as set forth in the preceding section, that the goods have
been re-delivered to the defendant upon his forthcoming bond, the
plaintifff shall take judgment for the property itself, and against
the defendant and the sureties on the forthcoming bond of the
defendant, for the value of the property; such judgment to be
satisfied by the recovery of the property, or of the amount adjudged against the defendant and his sureties. After the rendition of the judgment, the plaintifff may, at his option, sue out a
writ of possession for the property, and execution for his costs, or
sue out execution against the defendant and his sureties for the
amount recovered as aforesaid and costs. If he shall elect to sue
out a writ of possession for the property, and the officer shall return that he is unable to find the said property, or any of it, the
plaintifff may immediately sue out execution against the said defendant and his sureties as aforesaid for the whole amount recovered against them, or for the amount recovered less the value
of the goods found by the officer. If he shall sue out execution
for the whole amount, the officer shall release all goods taken
under the writ of possession. In any proceeding to ascertain the
value of the goods so that judgment for such value may be entered, the value of each article shall be found.

1725. Judgment for defendant.1. WHEN GOODS HAVE BEEN RE-DELIVERED T0 nEFENnAN'r.—
When the goods shall have been re-delivered to the defendant
upon his forthcoming bond, and it shall appear upon the nonsuit of the plaintifff, or upon trial or otherwise, that the defendant is entitled to the goods, he shall have judgment against the
plaintifff and the sureties upon his bond for his damages for the
taking of such property and for his costs.

“Otherwise” constmcd to cover judgment of dismissal.—Branch v. Branch,
5 Fla., 447.

2. WHEN GOODS HAVE NOT BEEN RE-DELIVERED TO DEFENDAN'r.—When it shall appear as set forth in the preceding section,
and the property shall not have been re-delivered to the defendant, judgment shall be entered up against the plaintifff for possession of the property, and costs, and against him and his

-sureties for the value thereof and costs, in the same manner as

provided in section 17 24, paragraph 2, for judgment in favor of
the plaintifff ; and the defendant shall have the same election as
is in said section accorded to the plaintifff. The value of each

article of the goods replevied shall be found as is directed in said
section.

Judgment must conform to verdict.—Holliday v. McKinne, 22 Fla., 153.

CHAPTER V.

STATUTORY LI ENS.

(For liens for rent, see section 1761)

ARTICLE 1.--Declaration of liens. Sections . . . . . . 1726-1740
2.--Extent of liens. Section . . . . . . . . 1741
3.—Acquisition of liens. Sections . . . . . . 1742, 1743
4.—Enforcement of liens. Sections . . . . . 1744-1748
5.—Release of liens. Section . . . . . . . . 1749

ARTICLE 1.

DECLARATION OF LIENS.

Upon real estate. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1726-1729
Upon personal property. Sections . . . . . . . . . . 173C-1740

UPON REAL ESTATE.

Liens prior in dignity to all others may exist in favor of the
following persons, upon the following described real estate, under
the circumstances hereinafter mentioned. to-wit:

1726. For labor on buildings and structures.~In favor of any
mechanic, laborer or other person who shall perform by himself (

or others any labor upon, or in the construction or repair of any 1
building or other work or structure, or _ of additions to, or upon
any fixtures therein or thereon; upon such building, work or
structure and the land upon -which it stands.

1727. For labor on railroads, telegraphs, etc.—In favor of
any person performing by himself or others any labor upon any
railroad, canal, telegraph or telephone line, wharf, mill, distillery l
or other manufactory, whether in the construction, repair or operation thereof; upon such line, wharf, mill, distillery or other
manufactory, any and all franchises, machinery and equipments
connected therewith or thereon and on the land upon which they

stand.

1728. For labor on farms, etc.—In favor of any person performing by himself or others any labor upon or in any farm,
orchard, grove, garden, park or other grounds, whether in clearing up, fencing, ditching or draining, or in maintaining, improving or cultivating the same; upon such farm, orchard, grove,
garden, park or other grounds.

1729. For materials f'ln‘nished.—In favor of any person who
shall furnish any building material for the construction, repair

or use of any building, railroad, canal, or telegraph line, wharf,
bridge, mill, distillery or other manufacturing work or structure;
upon the said buildings, lines, or other property and the lands
upon which they stand.

UPON PERSONAL PROPERTY.

Liens prior in dignity to all others may exist in favor of the

following persons, upon the following described personal property,
under the circumstances hereinafter mentioned, to-wit:

1730. For labor on and with machines, etc —In favor of any
person by himself or others performing any labor upon or with
any engine, machine, apparatus, fixture, or implement; upon
such engine, machine, apparatus, fixture or implement.

1731. For labor on legs and timber.—In favor of any person
by himself or others cutting, rafting, running, driving or perfor1ning other labor upon logs or timber of any kind; on such logs
and timber, and on any article manufactured therefrom.

1732. For labor as book-keeper, clerk, etc.—In favor of
book-keepers, clerks, agents, porters and other employes of merchants and transportation companies and other corporations;
upon the stock, fixtures and other property of such merchants,
companies or corporations.

1733. For labor in raising crops.~In favor of any person
performing any labor in, or managing, or overseeing, the cultivation or harvesting of crops; upon the crops cultivated or harvested.

1734. For labor on or for vessels.—In favor of any person
performing by himself or others any labor or service of any

kind on, to or for the use or benefit of a vessel or water-craft, including masters, mates and members of. the crew, and persons
loading or unloading the vessel, or putting in or taking out ballast; upon such vessel or water-craft, her tackle, apparel and

furniture.

1735. For manufacturing and repairing articles.—In favor
of any person who shall manufacture, alter or repair any article

or thing of value; upon such article or thing.

1736. For furnishing articles to be manufactured.—In favor
of any person who shall furnish any logs, lumber, clay, sand,

stone or other material whatsoever, crude or partially or wholly
prepared for use, to any mill or other manufactory to be manufactured into any article of value; upon all such articles furnished and upon all articles manufactured therefrom.

1737. For furnishing locomotives, machinery, etc..—-In favor
of any person who shall furnish any locomotive or stationary engine, water engine, wind mill, car or other machine or parts of
machine or instrument for any railroad, telegraph or telephone

line, mill, distillery or other manufactory; upon the articles so
furnished.

1733. For furnishing materials for vessels.-Lln favor of any
ship chandler, storekeeper or dealer furnishing stores, provisions,

rigging or other materials to or for the use of any ship, vessel,
steamboat or other water-craft; on such ship, vessel, steamboat or
other water-craft.

1739. For care and maintenance of horses.—I n favor of all
keepers of livery, sale or feed stables, for feeding or taking care

of any horse or other animal put in their charge; upon such
horse or other animal.

1740. For boarding and lodging at hotels.——In favor of keepers of hotels and boarding houses for the board and lodging of,

and for monies advanced to guests; upon the goods and chattels
belonging to such guests in such hotel or boarding house.

Upon the non-payment of such sums in accordance with the
rules, of such hotel or boarding house, the keeper thereof may instantly eject such guest therefrom.

ARTICLE 2.

EXTENT OF LIENS.

1741. Upon both real and personal propert37.—If the labor or
materials mentioned hereinbefore shall be done or furnished by

the procurement of the owner of the property, or his agent, or of
a person contracting with him to have the work done or materials furnished, the lien shall be upon the interest of such owner;
but if the labor be done or the materials furnished by the procurement of a person having less than the absolute interest, or of
his agent, or of any person contracting with him to have the
work done or materials furnished, the lien shall be only upon
the limited interest of such person.

ARTICLE 3.

ACQUISITION OF LIENS.

1742. By persons in privity with the owners..I. As AGAINST THE OWNER.-—AS against the owner, absolute
or limited, of the property real or personal upon which a lien is
claimed, or person deriving through his death, or purchasers or
creditors with notice, the lien hereinbefore provided for shall be
acquired by any person in privity with such owner by the performance of the labor or the furnishing of the materials.

2. AS AGAINST PURCHASERS AND CREDITORS.-—

(a) As TO REAL EsTA'I‘E.——AS against purchasers and creditors
of such owner without notice, such lien shall be acquired, upon
real estate, only from the time of the record in the office of the
clerk of the circuit court of the county where the real estate lies
of a notice of such lien. Such notice shall contain a statement
of the amount claimed, a description of the property upon which
the lien is claimed, and a notice of the intention to hold a lien
for the said amount, and shall be verified by the oath of the
lienor or his agent. It shall be filed only after the labor has been
entirely performed, or the materials entirely furnished, but if a
person who is performing or about to perform, by himself or
others, labor, or is furnishing or is about to furnish materials,
shall so desire, he may have recorded as aforesaid a cautionary
notice that he will claim a lien for all work done or to be done,
and materials furnished or to be furnished, and such cautionary
notice shall, until the work be completed or all the materials be
furnished (unless the lien notice be recorded within that time so
as to supersede it) operate as notice of the claim of such lien.

No notice of a perfected lien shall be effectual unless it be
filed within three months after the entire performance of the labor
or the entire furnishing of the materials.

((2) As TO PERSONAL PROPERTY.—-There shall be no lien upon
personal property as against purchasers and creditors without notice, unless the person claiming the lien be in possession of the
property upon which the lien is claimed, in which case the lien
as against creditors and purchasers without notice shall continue so long as the possession continues, but not for a period
longer than three months after the performance of the labor or
the furnishing of the material.

1743.— By persons not in privity with the owner.1. As AGAINST THE OWNER.—A person entitled to acquire a
lien, not in privity with the owner as aforesaid, shall acquire a
lien upon such owner’s real or personal property as against him,
and persons claiming through his death and purchasers and creditors with notice, by the delivery to him, or his agent, of a written notice that the contractor, or other person, for whom the labor has been performed, or the materials furnished,is indebted‘

to the person performing the labor, or furnishing the materials,
in the sum stated in the notice, and that a lien is claimed upon
the property. A lien shall exist from the time of the service of
such notice for the amount due by the owner to the contractor
or other person for whom the work was done or the material furnished. Such service shall also create a persona_l liability against
the owner of the property in favor of the lienor, giving such notice, for the amount due by the said owner, at the time of service
of the notice, to the contractor or other person for whom the work
was done or the materials furnished. '

2. AS AGAINST PURCHASERS AND CREDITORS.-—

(a) UPON REAL ESTATE.——AS against purchasers and creditors
of such owners without notice, such liens against real estate shall be

acquired only from theitime of the recording (subsequent to the

service of the notice provided for in paragraph 1 of this section)
in the office of the clerk of the circuit court of the county, of ‘a

notice of lien similar to that provided by paragraph 2a of section
1742.

(b) UPON PERSONAL PROPERTY.-—Tl1eI‘e shall be no lien upon
personal property as against creditors and purchasers without notice, except under the circumstances and for the time prescribed
in paragraph 2b of section 1742, and for the amount of indebtedness due by the owner at the time of the service of the notice provided for by paragraph 1 of this section.

ARTICLE 4.

EN 1-‘OR(‘EMEN'l‘ OF LIENB.

Remedies against either real or personal property. Section 1744
Remedies against personal property only. Section . . . . 1745
Provisions applicable to remedies against either real or per' sonal property. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1746-1748

1744. Remedies against either real or personal property.i 1. BY PERSONS IN PRIVITY WITH owNER.—All liens provided
for by this chapter, either upon real or personal property, shall
be enforceableby persons in privity with the owner.

]. By a retention of possession for a period not exceeding
three months of the property upon which the lien has attached,
by the person entitled to such lien, if he were in such possession
at the time the lien attached.

2. By a bill in equity. ’

3. By an ordinary suit at law and the levy of the execution
obtained therein on the property on which the lien is held.

4. By a suit at law in which the declaration shall state the
manner in which the lien arose, the amount for which the lien is
held, the description of the property, and a prayer that the property be sold to satisfy the lien. In such suit the judgment for
the plaintifff shall be a personal judgment against the defendant
as well as declare the lien upon the property, describing it; and
shall direct execution against such property as well as against the
property generally of the defendant.

Personal judgment against married women not authorized—O’Neil v..Percival, 20 Fla., 937.

2. BY PERSONS NOT IN PRIVITY WITH THE owNEn.—A person
not in privity with the owner may resort to any of the remedies
prescribed by the foregoing paragraph, except the third, but in
every suit at law or in chancery, the contractor or person for
whom the labor was performed or the materials furnished must
be made a party defendant to the suit, and the judgment or decree may provide for the recovery from the contractor or other

person as aforesaid of the amount due by him, and from the
owner of the amount due by him to the contractor or other person as aforesaid at the time of the service of the notice provided

, for by section 1743, paragraph 1, as well as decree and enforce

the lien against the property of such owner for such amount ; but
only one satisfaction of such judgment shall be had. And
although no lien be found to exist and no judgment be rendered
against the owner, judgment may be rendered against the contractor or other person for whom the labor was performed or the
materials furnished, for the amount due by him. If personal
service in such suit cannot be made upon any defendant, constructive service may be made in the manner and under the rules
prescribed for such service in chancery cases.

1745. Remedies against personal property only.1. BY INJUNCTION AND ATTAGHMEN’I‘.——If any person entitled
to a lien under this chapter, upon personal property, shall have
reason to believe that the same is about to be removed from the
county in which it may be, he may enjoin the removal of the
same in the manner provided for enjoining the removal of property
subject to a mortgage (see section 147 2), or, if the lien shall have
been perfected, may attach the same in the manner provided for
attachment in aid of foreclosure of mortgages. (See section 1640.)

'2. BY SALE WITHOUT JUDICIAL 1>RocEEn1Nes.—-Wlienever any
person shall entrust to any mechanic or laborer, materials with
which to construct, alter or repair any article of value, or any
article of value to be altered or repaired, such mechanic or laborer, if such article be completed and not taken away, and the
fair and reasonable charges not paid, may, after three months
from the time such charges become due, sell the same, and such
sale shall be at public auction, for cash. But before any such sale
such mechanic or laborer shall give public notice of the time and
place thereof by advertisements posted for ten days in three public
places in the county, one of which shall be the court-house, and
another in some conspicuous part of his shop or place of business,
and the proceeds of such sale, after payment of charges for construction or repair, with the costs of such sale, shall, if the owner
be absent, be deposited with the clerk of the circuit court for such
county, where the same shall re1nain.subject to the order of the
person legally entitled thereto, and the clerk shall be entitled to
receive from all proceeds so deposited with him five per centum
on such proceeds for the care and disbursement thereof.

PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO REMEDIES AGAINST EITHER REAL
OR PERSONAL PROPERTY.

1746. Time of tria1s.—In any of the suits at law hereinbefore provided for, a trial may be had at any time after five
days from the filing of the pleas of the defendant. Upon the
written request of either party, the judge of the court in which
the suit is pending shall fix the day of such trial, and upon like
request order the executive officer of his court to summon from
the body of the county a jury to try the issues.

1747. Attorney’s fees to be allowed pla.intiif.—If the plaintifff shall prevail, the court shall allow him reasonable attorney’s

fees to be fixed by the court, not to exceed ten dollars if the
amount recovered do not exceed one hundred dollars, and not to
exceed ten per cent. of any recovery greater than one hundred
dollars. 1748. Time of bringing suit.—When there has been no
record of a notice of a lien, suit to enforce such lien (if it exist

without such record) must be brought within twelve months
from the performance of the work or the furnishing of the materials, and if there has been such record, such suit must be
brought within twelve months from the time of such record.

ARTICLE 6.

RELEASE OF LIEN.

1749. By Ming bond.—Any lienee may release his property
from any lien claimed thereon under this chapter by filing with
the clerk of the circuit court a bond with two good and suflicicnt
suretics, to be approved by the clerk, payable to the person
claiming the lien in double the sum claimed and conditioned for

the payment of any judgment which may be recovered on said
lien, with costs.

Release of owner by suit. in equit against severalgclaimants under section
1745, 2.—Trustees, etc. v. Sanford, 17 1a., 162.

CHAPTERJVI. .

LANDLORD ANDQTENANT.

ARTICLE 1.—Provisions relating to recovery of possession

from tenant. Sections . . . . . . . . . . 1750-1758
2.—Pr0visions relating to recovery of money from
tenants. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . 1759-1770
ARTICLE 1.

PROVISIONS RELATING TO RECOVERY 01-‘ POSSESSION FROM TENANT.

Right of entry upon default in rent. Section . . . . . . . . . 1750

Causes for removal of tenant. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . 1751

Petition for removal. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1752

Process, service and return. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1753

Judgment without trial. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1754

Trial. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1755

Verdict and judgment after trial. Section . . . . . . . . . . . 1756

Costs and fees. Sectioii . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1757

Appeals. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1758

1750. Right of entry upon default in rent.—-It any person
leasing or re-renting any land or house shall fail to pay the rent

at the time it becomesdue, the lessor may immediately thereafter
enter and take possession of the property so leased or rented.

1751. Causes for removal of tenant.—Any tenant or lessee
at will or sufferance, or for part of a year, or for one or more

years, of any houses, lands or tenements, and the assigns, undertenants, or legal representatives of such tenant or lessee, may be
removed from such premises in the manner hereinafter provided
in the following cases:

1. Where such person shall hold over and continue in the
possession of the demised premises, or any part thereof, after the
expiration of his time without the permission of his landlord. .

2. Where such person shall hold over without permission as
aforesaid, after any default in the payment of rent pursuant to
the agreement under which such premises are held, and three
days’ notice in writing, requiring the payment of such rent or the
possession of the premises, shall have been served by the person
entitled to such rent on the person owing the same. The service
of such notice shall be by delivery of a true copy thereof, or if
such tenant be absent from his last or usual place of residence,
by leaving a copy thereof at such place.

1752. Petition for removal.-—The landlord, his legal representative, agent or assigns, applying for the removal of any such
tenant, shall make and file with the county judge of the county
wherein the premises are situated, a petition in writing, and under oath, stating the facts which so authorize the removal of any
tenant, and describing the premises.

1753. Process—service and retu.rn.—Upon the flllflg of such
petition, the county judge shall issue his summons, describing the

premises of which possession is demanded, and requiring the
person in possession, or claiming the possession thereof, forthwith
to remove from the same or to show cause before the said judge,
within not less than three nor more than five days, to be fixed in
the summons, why possession of said premises should not be delivered to the applicant.

Such summons shall be served by the executive officer of said
court in the manner provided for service of summons ad respondendurm.

\

1754. Judgment without trial.—If at the time appointed in
said summons no sufficient cause be shown to the contrary, the

county judge shall enter a judgment that the complainant recover possession of the premises, and issue his warrant within
three days thereafter (unless an appeal shall have been taken and
properly perfected) to the sheriff of said county commanding him
to remove all persons from the premises aforesaid, and to put the
said applicant in full possession thereof.

1755. Tria.l.—T.he person in possession of said premises, and
any person claiming possession thereof, may, at the time appointed in such summons for showing cause, or before, file an
affidavit with the county judge denying the facts upon which the
said summons was issued, or any of the facts, and the matter

therein controverted shall be tried by the judge, unless a jury be
demanded, in which case it shall be tried by six legal jurors to
be immediately summoned upon the order of the judge and empaneled for that purpose.

1756. Verdict, and judgment after trial.-—

1. FOR THE PLAINTIFF.-—If the verdict shall be in favor of
the lessor, landlord or other person applying for the possession of
said premises, the county judge shall enter a judgment that the
complainant recover possession of the premises, and issue his
warrant on the third day thereafter (unless a new trial be granted
by him) to the sheriff of the county commanding him to put
the landlord, lessor or other person into possession of said premises as hereinbeforeldirected, which it shall be his duty forthwith

to execute.

2. FOR THE DEFENDANT.-—If upon a trial of the issues before
the judge, or before a jury, the finding of the judge, or the verdict of the jury, shall be in favor of the defendant, the proceedings shall be dismissed unless an appeal be taken, or unless the
judge grant a new trial.

1757. Costs and fees.-—In every case the prevailing party
shall have judgment for his costs, and the judge shall issue execution therefore on the third day thereafter, unless an appeal be
taken. . .

The costs shall be the same as are by law provided for similar
services and fees in justices’ court.

1758. Appeals.1. MANNER AND TIME or TAKING.-—At any time within two
days after the entry,of judgment by the county judge, or, if there
be a motion for a new trial, at any time within two days after the
refusal to grant such new trial, either party may appeal to the
next term of the circuit court of the county wherein the trial is
had upon giving a bond, to be approved by the county judge, in
such amount as he may fix in his discretion, to indemnify the
adverse party for all damages and costs that may accrue to him
by reason of the taking of such appeal. Before such appeal
shall be granted the party appealing shall make oath in writing
before said judge that said appeal is taken in good faith and not
for delay, and shall first pay all costs incurred in the trial before
said judge and in the taking of said appeal.

0

2. EFFECT on APPEAL.-—N0 appeal taken shall operate as a
supersedeas.

ARTICLE 2.

PROVISIONS RELATING TO R1°.‘(.‘OVERY OF MONEY FROM TENANT8.

Amount of rent d€l1.&lld8.l)le upon refusal of tenant to deliver possession. Section . . . . . . . . . . -. . . . . 1759
Action for use and occupation. Section . . . . . . . . . 1760
Ltsxs IN mvon or LANDLOBDS:

Declaration of liens. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . . . I761-1763
Enforcement of liens. Sections , . . . . . . . . . . . . 1764-1769
Claims by third persons. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770

1759. Amount of rent demandable upon refusal of tenant to
deliver possession.—W hen any tenant shall refuse to give up

possession of the premises at the end of his lease, the landlord,
his agent, attorney or legal representative, may demand of such
tenant double the monthly rent, and may recover the same at the
expiration of every month, or in the same proportion for a longer
or shorter time by distress, in manner pointed out hereinafter.

All contracts for rent, verbal or in writing, shall bear interest
from the time the rent shall become due, any law, usage, or custom to the contrary notwithstanding.

1760. Action for use and occupa.tion.—Any landlord, his
heirs, executors, administrators or assigns, may recover reasonable s;1tist'acti011 for any hous:, l.m'ls, tsnements, or hereditaments
held or occupied by any person by his permission, in an action
on the case for the use and occupation of the said lands, tenements, or hereditaments when they are not held, occupied by
or under an agreement or demise by deed; and if on the trial of
any such action, any demise or agreement (not being by deed)
whereby a certain rent was reserved shall appear or be given in
evidence, the plaintifff in such action shall not therefore be nonsuited, but may make use thereof as an evidence of the quantum
of damages to be recovered.

Relation of landlord and tenant must be shown to sustain this aetion.—War&
V. Bull, 1 Fla., 271.

~LIE.\'S IN FAVOR OF LANDLORD.

Declaration of liens. Sections . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1761.-1-763$
Enforcement of liens. Sections . . . . . . . . . 1.764-1769

DECLARATION OF LIEN.

1761. Lien for rent.—Every person to whom rent may be
due, his heirs, executors, administrators or assigns, shall have a
lien for such rent upon the property found upon oroif the premises leased or rented, and in the possession of any person, as
follows:

1. Upon agricultural products raised on the land leased or
rented for the current year. This lien shall be superior to all

other liens, though of older date.

2. Upon all other property of the lessee or his sub-lessee or
assigns, usually kept on the premises. This lien shall be superior
to any lien acquired subsequent to the bringing of such property
on the premises leased.

3. Upon all other property of the defendant.’ This lien shall
date from the levy of the distress warrant hereinafter provided
for.

1762. Exemptions from liens for rent.—No property of any
tenant or lessee shall be exempt from distress and sale for rent,

except beds, bed clothes and wearing apparel.

Unconstitutiona1.—Cathcart v. Turner, 18 Fla., 837. ‘What connot be exempted.—Ib.

1763. Lien for advances.-—Landlords shall have a lien on the
crop grown on rented land, for advances made in money or other
things of value, whether made directly by them or at their instance and request by another person, or for which they have assumed a legal responsibility, at or before the time at which such
advances were made, for the sustenance or well being of the tenant or his family, for preparing the ground for cultivation, or for
cultivating, gathering, saving, handling or preparing the crop for
market; and they shall have a lien also upon each and every article advanced, and upon all property purchased with money advanced, or obtained by barter or exchange for any articles advanced, for the aggregate value or price of all such property or
articles so advanced. And such liens ‘upon the crop shall be of
equal dignity with liens for rent, and upon the articles advanced
shall be paramount to all other liens.

ENFORCEMENT OF LIENS.

1764. Amdavit for distress warrant.-—Any person to whom
any rent or money for advances may be due, his agent or attorney, executor or administrator, may make and file in the court in
the county where the land lics,having jurisdiction of the amount
claimed, an affidavit stating the amount or quantity and value of
the rent due for such land, or the advances, and whether it or
they are payable in money, cotton or other agricultural product
or thing.

Affidavit equivalent to dec|aration.—Smoot v. Strauss. 21 .Fla., 611. Contract
for fixed rent not indispensable.-lb.

1765. Distress warrant.1. DIRECTION AND FORM oF.—-Upon the filing of such affidavit, the clerk, or the judge if the court have no clerk, shall issue
a distress warrant, directed to the executive officer of the court,
commanding him to levy on property liable to be distraincd for
the rent, or the advances, and collect the amount ‘claimed in the
affidavit, or the value thereof, and to summon the said defendant
to appear before the court at a date fixed in the writ not more
than ten days fromethe issuance of the writ.

2. LEVY OF wRI'r.—The officer to whom the writ is directed
shall execute the same by service on the defendant at least five
days before the return day, and by levy on property distrainable
for such rent or advances if to be found in his jurisdiction. If
the property is not to be so found, but is in another jurisdiction,
he shall deliver the writ to the proper officer in said other jurisdiction ; and such other officer shall execute said warrant by
distraining said property, and shall deliver the same to the
proper officer of the court in which the proceedings were instituted, to be disposed of according to law, unless he is ordered by
the court from which the writ emanated to hold said property
and dispose of the same in his jurisdiction according to law, as
in other cases of distress. If the defendant cannot be found, the
levy upon the property shall suffice as a service upon him.

Last clause not unconstitutional.—Blanchard v. Raines’ extr., 20 Fla., 467.

1766. Replevy by defenda.nt.-—The party distrained shall
have the right to replevy the property so taken, by making oath

by affidavit that the rent or advances or any part thereof claimed,
is not due, and giving bond payable to the plaintiH, with two
good and sufficient sureties to be approved by the officer issuing the
writ, conditioned for the payment of the amount or value of the
rent or advances which upon trial may be found to be due. But
when such defendant shall make oath that only a part of such
rental or advances claimed is due, he shall also pay the part not
denied before any more of such property than that over and
above what may be necessary to pay the rent not denied, and
costs, shall be restored to him.

1767. Judgment by default.-——If the property has not been
replevied, and the defendant shall not appear upon the return
day of the writ and file the affidavit provided in section 1766,
the court shall enter final judgment by default against the defendant for the amount claimed in the affidavit of the plaintifff.

1768. Trial, verdict, judgment and a.ppeal.—-In case the
property so levied upon, or any part of it, shall be replevied and
restored to the defendant, or in case the defendant shall appear
and file the affidavit provided for in section 1766, a trial without
written pleadings shall be had upon the return day of the writ,
and a jury of bystanders shall be sworn to well and truly try,
and a true verdict render, whether any, and if any, what rent or
advance is due the plaintifff, as alleged in the affidavit, and the
value of the same.

If there shall be a verdict for the plaintifff, judgment shall be
rendered against the defendant (and the sureties on his bond if
the property shall have been replevied) for the amount or value
of the rental or advances, including interest and costs, and a writ
of execution shall issue thereon and be enforced as in other cases.

If the verdict be for the defendant, the proceedings shall be
dismissed, and he shall have judgment and execution against
the plaintifff for costs.

Appeals may be taken by either party to the proper appellate
court, and such appeals shall operate as a .s~upe7~scdca.s upon the
same conditions as other appeals in actions at law.

1769. Sale of the property distra.ined.—If the verdict and
judgment be for the plaintifff, and the property in whole or in
part shall not have been replevied, the same, or such part as is
not restored, shall be sold and the proceeds applied upon the payment of the execution of the plaintifff. If, however, the rental or
any part thereof be due in cotton or other agricultural products,
and the property distrained, or any of it, be of a similar kind to
that claimed in the affidavit, the Ptoperty of such similar kind,
up to a quantity to be judged of by the officer holding the execution, not exceeding that claimed in the affidavit, may be, at the
request of the plaintifff, delivered to the plaintifff as a payment on
his execution. ‘ '

When any property levied upon is sold, it shall be advertised
at least ten days, in the same manner as is provided by law for
the advertisement of personal property for sale under execution.
All property so levied upon may be sold on the leased premises,
or at the court-house door;

If the defendant shall, before the sale, appeal, and make such
appeal effectual as a supersedeas, and pay all costs accrued up to
the time that the supersedeas became operative, the property shall
be restored to him, and there shall be no sale.

In case any property be sold to satisfy any rent payable in
cotton or other agricultural product o_r thing, the officer shall
settle with the plaintifff at the value of such rental at the time it

became due.

1770. Claims by third persons,——Any third person claiming any property so distrained may interpose and prosecute his
claim for it in the same manner as is provided in similar cases

of claim to property levied on under execution.

TITLE VIII.

OF COMMON LAW PROCEEDINGS REGULATED BY STATUTE.

CHAPTER 1.—0f habeas corpus. Sections . . . . . . . 1771-1780

2.—Of quo wnrranto. Sections . . . . . . . 1781-1784

3.—Of prohibition. Sections . . . . . . . 1785-1791
CHAPTER I.

HABEAS CORPUS.

Applibation for, and issuance of writ. Section . . . . . .- . . 1771

Service of. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1772

Return to. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1773

Compelling return. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1774

Effect of return. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1775

Procurement of evidence. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1776

Hearing and judgment. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1777

Filing of papers and entry of judgment. Section . . . . . . 1778

Effect of judgment. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . '. . 1779

Writ of errortojudgment. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1780

1771.—Applica.tion for and issuance of writ.—Whenever any
person detained in custody, whether charged with a criminal offense or not, shall, by himself or by some other person in his behalf, apply to the supreme court of the State of Florida or to any
justice thereof, or to any circuit judge in vacation or in term time
for a writ of habeas corpus, and shall show by aiiidavit or evidence
probable cause to believe that he is detained in custody without
lawful authority, it shall be the duty of the court, the justice or
judge to whom such application shall be made forthwith togrant
the writ, signed by himself, directed to the person in whose custody the applicant is detained, and returnable immediately before
such court, justice or judge, or any of said courts, justices or judges
as the writ issued may direct.

In all cases where it shall appear necessary, the court or
judge granting the writ shall previously require=bond, payable to
the governor, with sufficient security, executed in such manner
and in such reasonable penalty as such court, justice or judge
shall prescribe, conditioned for the payment of such charges and
costs as may be awarded against the prisoner, and that he will
not escape by the way. Such bond shall be filed with the papers
in the case, and may be sued on in the name of the governor for
the benefit of any person interested therein. In the event of inability to give bond for the payment of charges and costs, he
may be permitted, in lieu thereof, to make a deposit in such
amount as the court, justice or judge may require.

What is and is not function of writ.—E:c parte Bowen, 25 Fla., 214.

1772. Service of writ.—Such writ, when issued, shall be
served by the sheriff of the county in which the petitioner is
allegedto be detained, upon the officer or other person to whom
it is directed, or in his absence from the place where the prisoner
is confined, on the person having the immediate custody of the
prisoner. In cases where the sheriff of the county is the person
holding the party detained, a delivery to or receipt of the writ
by him shall be sufiicient service thereof.1773. The return to the writ.—It shall be the duty of him
on whom the writ shall be executed, without delay, to bring
the body f the prisoner, or cause it to be brought, before the
court, justice or judge, before whom the writ is made returnable,
and at the same time to certify to the cause of the detention.

1774. Compelling return, and production of body.1. CIVIL -LIABILITY.——AI)y person failing to returndie writ so
served upon him, with the cause of the prisoner’s detention, or to
bring the body of the prisoner before the court, justice or judge,
according to the command of the writ, for three days after such
-service, or when the prisoner is to be brought more than twenty
miles, for so many days more as will be equal to one day for
every twenty miles of such further distance, shall forfeit and pay
to the prisoner the sum of three hundred dollars, the right to recover which shall not cease by the death of either or both of the
parties.

2. BY PROCEEDINGS BY THE COURT.-—-A justice or judge in
vacation may take the same steps to enforce obedience to any
writ of habeas corpus as may be taken in term time by any court
having jurisdiction over such writs, and in cases pending before
the supreme court, or either of the justices thereof, writs for the
enforcement of such obedience may be directed to the sheriff or
other lawful officer of any county in the State.

1775. Effect of the return.1. GENERALLY.——The return made to the writ may be
amended, and shall not be taken to be conclusive as to the facts
stated therein, but it shall be competent -for the court, justice or
judge, before whom such return is made, to examine into the
cause of the imprisonment or detention, to receive evidence in
contradiction of the.return, and to determine the same as the
very truth of the case shall require. 7

2. IN CASES or coN'rEM1>'r.—When, on the return of the writ,
the cause of detention shall appear to have been a contempt,
plainly and specifically charged in the commitment by some
court officer or body having authority to commit for the contempt so charged and for the time stated, it shall be the duty of
the court or judge before whom the writ is returnable forthwith
to remand the prisoner, if the time for detention for contempt
has not expired.

. 1776. Procurement of evidence.—-In vacation the justice or
judge shall have the same power to compel the attendance of a

witness to give evidence upon the trial as a court would have in
term time; and whenever either in term time or vacation it shall

be inconvenient to procure the personal attendance of a witness,"

his affidavit, taken upon reasonable notice to the adverse party,
may be received in evidence, and subpoenas may be directed to
the sheriff or other lawful officer of any county in the State.

1777. Hearing and judgment.--The court, justice or judge
before whom the prisoner shall be brought, shall without delay
proceed to inquire into the cause of his imprisonment, and shall
either discharge him, admit him to bail or remand him to custody, as tlj law andthe evidence shall require, and..shall moreover either award against the prisoner the charges of his transportation, not exceeding fifteen cents per mile, and the costs of
the proceedings, or shall award the costs in his favor, or shall
award no costs or charges against either party, as shall seem
ri ht.

g The clerk of the court in which such proceedings are taken
may issue execution for the costs and charges awarded by a
judgment rendered in vacation in the same manner as if rendered in term time.

1778. Filing of papers and entry of judg'ment.——In cases before a circuit judge the petition and the papers in the cause shall

be filed with the clerk of the circuit court of the county in which
the prisoner is detained and the judgment shall be entered of
record upon the minutes of the court; and in cases before the
supreme court or a justice thereof, the papers shall be filed with
the clerk of the supreme court, and the judgment entered upon
the minutes of the court.

1779. Effect of judgment.—-The judgment so entered of
record shall be conclusive until reversed in the manner hereinafter provided for, and no person remanded by such judgment
while the same continues in force shall be at liberty to obtain
another habeas corpus for the same cause, or by any other procecding to bring the same matter again in question, except by
writ or error, or by action of false imprisonment; nor shall any
person who shall be discharged from confinement by such judgment be afterward confined or imprisoned for the same cause,
unless by the order or judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction.

1780.—Writ of error to judgment.—The judge hearing the
cause, or a justice of the supreme court, shall grant to any party

aggrieved by the judgment a writ of errorretumable to the next
term of the supreme court, or to the court in term if the writ is
applied for during a session of the court, which writ shall be heard
and determined as other cases, and the trial of such writs of error

shall have preference in the supreme court over all other causes,

Reviewable by supreme court only by writ of error.—Tyler v. Painter, 16
Fla., 144. Ex rte Edwards, 11 Fla,‘ 174. Practice as to notice in such cases, is
in discretion o court.—Tyler v. Painter, 16 Fla., 144. E2: parts Finch, 15 Fla.,

630. Only petitioner can have writ on discharge from arrest.—-Gagnet v. Reese,
20 F1a., 438.

CHAPTER II.

QUO WARRANTO—WRITS OF.

Proceedings by attorney-general-—power of courtto make parties. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1781
Proceedings by persons other than the attorney-general. Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1782, 17 83
Control of attorney-general over action. Section . . . . . . 1784

PROCEEDINGS BY THE ATTORNEY-GENERAL.

1781. Power of court to make parties.—In all proceedings
upon writs of quo warranto, or upon information in the nature of

such writs, or in civil actions instituted to obtain the remedies
obtainable by such proceedings, where the attorney-general institutes the action and does not make all the persons claiming
title to the office parties, it shall be within the power of the court
to make parties defendant of all persons claiming the office and
not made parties by the attorney-general. But the said persons
so desiring to be made parties shall be required to set forth by
petition under oath a prima facie case of right and title to the
oilice before the court can be required to make the order, and to
give security to the satisfaction of the court for the payment of
all costs which may be awarded against them.

PROCEEDINGS BY PERSONS OTHER THAN ATTORNEY-GENERAL.

1782. Right of claimant upon refusal of attorney-general.
—Any person claiming title to an office which is exercised by

another shall have the right, upon refusal by the attorney-gem
eral to institute proceedings in the name of the State upon such
claimant’s relation, or upon the attorney-general’s refusal to file
a complaint setting forth his name as the person rightfully entitled to the oiiice, to file an information, or institute an action in
the name of the State against the person exercising the oiiice,
setting up his own claim. In this case, the court is authorized
and required to determine the right of the claimant to the oihce
if he so desires. However, in this as well as in all other proceedings of this character, no person shall be adjudged entitled to
hold an office except upon full proof of his title to the office.

Governed by rules governing other civil actions—-proper pleas in--what
burden on respondent.——State, ex. rel. v. Saxon, 25 Fla.,3-12. Only attorne -general ean bring quo wan-auto against municipal corporations.—Robmson v. ones,

' 14 Fla., 256. Court cannot inquire into motive of attorney-general in filing.‘State v. Gleason, 12 Fla., 190. Writ issues upon demand of attorney-general.—Ib.

1783. Judgments in such suits.—In all cases where an individual institutes an action without the consent of the attorneygeneral, the judgment shall be conclusive as between the parties
other than the State; such judgment shall be no bar to any quo
warranto proceeding by the State, nor shall a judgment in such
proceeding instituted by the attorney—general be a bar to proceedings by any claimant other than the parties thereto. The party
recovering the judgment, shall however be entitled to exercise the
office until removed by quo war-ranto proceedings, or until his
right thereto shall otherwise cease.

Judgment of ouster, when rendered.--State ex. rel. v. Herndon, 23 Fla., 287.

When quo warranto 11es.—Lics as to franchises pertaining to private corporations..—Davidson v. State. ex. rel., 20 Fla., 784. Lies though relator have no
title.--Lake v. State, ex. rel., 18 Fla., .301. Lies to inquire into qualification of
pilots.—-State v. Jones, 16 Fla., 306. Pleadings and proceedings.-—What answer must set out.—State v. Gleason, 12 Fla., 190. Sufficiency of answer.-State
ex. rel. v. Saxon, 25 Fla., 792. Answer must set up facts.-—State ex. rel. v. Day,
14 Fla., 9. Frame and sufficiency of plea.——State v. Jones, 16 Fla., 306. Common law proceedings allowed in absence of statutory direction.—-State v. Gleason, 12 Fla., 190.

 

/

CONTROL OF ATTORNEY-GENERAL OVER ACTION.

1784. Power over dismissal.—-Where the attorney-general
institutes an action setting forth the name of the person rightfully entitled, or whenever there may be filed an information
upon the relation of a party claiming title, the attorney-general
shall not have the right to dismisssuch proceedings without the
consent of the claimant, but the court shall investigate the claim
and determine the right, if so desired by the person upon whose
relation the information is filed; and such claimant may have

counsel of his own choice to control the proceedings in his
behalf.

CHAPTER III.

PROHIBITION, WRITS 01“.

Practice and proceedings relating to. Sections . . . . . . I785-1789
Power of circuit judge in vacation. Section . . . . . . . 1790
Penalty for disobedience of writ. Section . . . . . . . . 1791

PRACTICE AND PROCEEDINGS.

The practice in the courts of this State having jurisdiction to
issue writs of prohibition shall be as follows:

1785. Suggestion, and contents thereof.—The plaintifff or
plaintifffs shall file a suggestion stating the nature of the case,

and the proceedings in the inferior court, tribunal or body presuming to exercise jurisdiction, sought to be prohibited, concluding with a prayer for judgment, and that the State’s writ of prohibition may be granted in that behalf. When the matters.

suggested appear upon the face of the proceedings in the inferior
court, then the transcript of the record of all the proceedings in
the case, duly certified, shall accompany the suggestion, and
where the matters suggested are not matters of record, then the
truth thereof shall be verified by afhdavit of the party instituting
the proceedings, or of his agent or attorney-at-law or in fact.

1786. Rule—issuance,. effect and service.—-Upon the filing
-of the suggestion, the court, if in its judgment a prima facie case

is made, shall grant a rule directed to the inferior court and to
the parties plaintifff in the suit therein pending to show cause

‘ why the Writ of prohibition should not issue as prayed for. Such

rule shall be a .s~upe7'sedeas, and shall be served upon the inferior

court and the parties to whom it is directed at such time as the.

court may direct, and an answer or return shall be made thereto
by the inferior court and the parties at the time prescribed in the
rule. In case of failure to make such answer or return, it may
be enforced by attachment for contempt.

1787. Service of rule.——In all cases in which the plaintifff
in the inferior court is a non-resident of the county in which the
action or matter is pending, service of the rule may be made
upon his attorney-at-law in the pending suit or controversy, or
in such manner as may be prescribed by the court.

1788. Proceedings upon a.nswer.—Upon the filing of the
answer or return, the person prosecuting the writ may reply,
take issue or demur to the matters relied upon by such defendant, and the like proceedings (except in the matter of notices or
motions, and of the hearing) shall be had for the trial of issues
of law or fact, joined between the parties as in personal actions.

1789. Proceedings upon defa.u1t.——In case of default in
making answer or return, the party prosecuting the writ may,

instead of compelling an answer by attachment, have a hearing
upon the matter of suggestion, and the court, after hearing the
proof, shall render judgment either that a prohibition absolutely
do issue restraining the court and the parties from proceeding in
such action or matter, or that the proceedings be dismissed, in
which last event a copy of the judgment of dismissal shall be
certified to the inferior court.

POWER OF CIRCUIT JUDGES IN VACATION.

1790. Power to summon jury, etc.—-In cases arising in the
circuit court, all the proceedings, including the final judgment,

may be had before the judge either during term or in vacation,
and the courts before which such proceedings in prohibition are
instituted shall have power to summon a jury, in case it is necessary, in such manner as they may deem proper.


